When the tea came round there were no nice young ladies to ask us if we took sugar and milk,
and how many pieces of sugar; to our great amusement the tea was poured into our cups from
large tin kettles carried by men who from their solemn countenances appeared fitting representatives
of "Caledonia stern and wild." We thought this method a good one from the labour-saving point
of view, and it was certainly one we had never seen adopted before. The weak point about it
was that it left no opportunity for individual taste in the matter of milk and sugar, which
had already been added, but as we did not hear any complaints and all appeared satisfied, we
concluded that the happy medium had been reached, and that all had enjoyed themselves as we
did ourselves.

Our friend the schoolmaster was very communicative, and added to our pleasure considerably
by his intelligent conversation, in the course of which he told us that the I.O.G.T. was a
temperance organisation introduced from America, and he thought it was engaged in a good work.
The members wore a very smart regalia, much finer than would have suited us under the climatic
conditions we had to pass through. After tea they gave us an entertainment consisting of recitations
and songs, the whole of which were very creditably rendered. But the great event of the evening
was the very able address delivered by the Rev. Professor Kirk, who explained the objects of
the Good Templar movement and the good work it was doing in Edinburgh and elsewhere. Every
one listened attentively, for the Professor was a good speaker and he was frequently applauded
by his audience.

We had spent a very pleasant evening, and the schoolmaster accompanied us nearly all the way
to our lodgings, which we reached at 11 p.m.

(Distance walked up to 2 p.m. twenty-four miles.)

Sunday, October 8th.

To judge by what we heard and saw, there were connected with Edinburgh three great characters
who stand out above all others in historic importance--Mary Queen of Scots, John Knox, and
Sir Walter Scott; but we thought and read more about John Knox this day than either of the
others, possibly because it was Sunday. We attended service in three different churches, and
give the following particulars for the information of our clerical and other friends who "search
the Scriptures," in the hope that they may find in the reading of the texts food for thought.

In the morning we went to the High Church. Preacher, the Rev. C. Giffin, M.A. Text. 2 Corinthians
viii. 13 and to the end.

In the afternoon to the Tron Church. Preacher, the Rev. James McGregor, D.D. Text: Isaiah lvii.,
the last three verses, and Ephesians ii. and the first clause of verse 14.

In the evening to the Wesleyan Chapel, Nicolson Square. Preacher, the Rev. Dr. James, President
of the Wesleyan Conference. Text: I Corinthians ii. 1, 2.

The excellence of the sermons, and the able way in which they had been prepared and were delivered,
gave us the impression that rivalry existed between the ministers of the different churches
as to which of them could preach the best sermon. They were all fine orations, carefully thought
out and elaborated, especially that by Dr. James.

During the intervals between the services we walked about the city, and again passed the splendid
monument to Sir Walter Scott with the following remarkable inscription, written by Lord Jeffery,
beneath its foundation stone:

   This Graven Plate, deposited in the base of a votive building on the
   fifteenth day of August in the year of Christ 1840, and never likely
   to see the light again till all the surrounding structures are
   crumbled to dust by the decay of time, or by human or elemental
   violence, may then testify to a distant posterity that his countrymen
   began on that day to raise an effigy and architectural monument to
   the memory of Sir Walter Scott, Bart., whose admirable writings were
   then allowed to have given more delight and suggested better
   feelings to a large class of readers in every rank of society than
   those of any other author, with the exception of Shakespeare alone,
   and which were, therefore, thought likely to be remembered long after
   this act of gratitude on the part of the first generation of his
   admirers should be forgotten. He was born at Edinburgh 15th August
   1771: and died at Abbotsford, 21st September 1832.

We also passed that ancient and picturesque mansion in the High Street known as the "House
of John Knox," in which the distinguished reformer died in 1572. Born in the year 1505, it
was he who, in the reign of Mary Queen of Scots, stirred Scotland to mighty religious impulses,
boldly denouncing Mary as a Papist and a Jezebel. How he escaped being beheaded or burned or
assassinated was, considering the nature of the times in which he lived, a mystery almost amounting
to a miracle.

Queen Mary sailed from France and landed at Leith, near Edinburgh, on August 19th, 1561, where
she was welcomed by the Scots as Dowager of France, Queen of Scotland, and heiress of England,
and was "gorgeouslie and magnificentlie" received, according to Scottish ideas, by the lords
and ladies who came to meet and accompany her to Edinburgh; but, according to the diary of
one of the Queen's ladies, "when they saw them mounted on such wretched little hackneys so
wretchedly caparisoned they were greatly disappointed, and thought of the gorgeous pomp and
superb palfreys they had been accustomed to in France, and the Queen began to weep." On their
arrival at Edinburgh they retired to rest in the Abbey, "a fine building and not at all partaking
of that country, but here came under her window a crew of five or six hundred scoundrels from
the city, who gave her a serenade with wretched violins and little rebecks of which there are
enough in that country, and began to sing Psalms so miserably mis-tuned and mis-timed that
nothing could be worse. Alas! what music, and what a night's rest!" What the lady would have
written if bagpipes had been included in the serenade we could not imagine, but as these instruments
of torture were not named, we concluded they must have been invented at a later period.

Mary had been away in France for about thirteen years, and during that time she had for her
companions four young ladies of the same name as her own and of about the same age, Mary Fleming,
Mary Bethune, Mary Livingstone, and Mary Seaton, all of whom formed part of her retinue on
her return to Scotland, where they were known as the "Queen's Marys."

She was a staunch adherent of the Romish Church, a fact which accounted for many of her trials
and mortifications. Mainly owing to the powerful preaching of John Knox, many of the people
of Scotland, both of high and low degree, had become fierce opponents of that form of religion,
which they considered idolatrous. The first Sunday after her arrival was St. Bartholomew's
Day, August 24th, and preparations had been made to celebrate mass in the Chapel Royal, at
which the Queen was to be present. But no sooner was this known, than a mob rushed towards
the edifice, exclaiming: "Shall the idol be again erected in the land?" and shouting, "The
idolatrous priests shall die the death!" On September 2nd the Queen made her public entry into
Edinburgh, and on the same day John Knox had an audience with Mary, who, hearing of a furious
sermon he had preached against the Mass on the previous Sunday in St. Giles's Church, thought
that a personal interview would mitigate his sternness. The Queen took him to task for his
book entitled The First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regimen of Women, and his
intolerance towards every one who differed from him in opinion, and further requested him to
obey the precepts of the Scriptures, a copy of which she perceived in his possession, and urged
him to use more meekness in his sermons. Knox in reply, it was said, "knocked so hastily upon
her heart," that he made her weep with tears of anguish and indignation, and she said, "My
subjects, it would appear, must obey you, and not me; I must be subject to them, and not they
to me!" Knox left Holyrood that day convinced that Mary's soul was lost for ever, and that
she despised and mocked all exhortation against the Mass.

When Mary attended her first Parliament, accompanied by her ladies, the Duke of Chatelherault
carrying the Crown, the Earl of Argyll the Sceptre, and the Earl of Moray the Sword, she appeared
so graceful and beautiful that the people who saw her were quite captivated, and many exclaimed,
"God save that sweet face!"

Mary heard of this furious attack upon her, which Knox admitted had offended both Papists and
Protestants, and he was again summoned to Holyrood. As soon as Mary saw Knox she was greatly
excited, and exclaimed: "Never was prince handled as I am." "I have borne with you," she said
to Knox, "in all your vigorous manner of speaking, both against myself and my uncles; yea,
I have sought your favour by all possible means--I offered unto you presence and audience whenever
it pleased you to admonish me, and yet I cannot be quit of you. I vow to God I shall be once
avenged."

Knox answered, "True it is, Madam, your Grace and I have been at divers controversies into
the which I never perceived your Grace to be offended at me; but when it shall please God to
deliver you from that bondage of darkness and error in the which ye have been nourished for
the lack of true doctrine, your majesty will find the liberty of my tongue nothing offensive.
Without the preaching-place, Madam, I am not master of myself, for I must obey Him who commands
me to speak plain, and flatter no flesh upon the face of the earth."

The Queen asked him again, "What have ye to do with my marriage, or what are ye in this commonwealth?"
"A subject born within the same, Madam," was the stern reply; "and albeit I be neither Earl,
Lord, nor Baron within it, yet has God made me, how abject soever I may be in your eyes, a
profitable member within the same."

He was entering into some personal explanations, when the Queen ordered him to leave the Cabinet,
and remain in the ante-chamber till her pleasure should be intimated. Here Knox found himself
in the company of the Queen's Marys and other ladies, to whom he gave a religious admonition.

Several noblemen had accompanied Knox when he went to see the Queen, but only Erskine of Dun
was admitted to the Cabinet, and Lord Ochiltree attended Knox in the ante-room while Queen
Mary held a consultation with Lord John Stuart and Erskine lasting nearly an hour, at the end
of which Erskine appeared and accompanied Knox home. Knox must have been in great danger of
losing his life owing to his fearless and determined daring in rebuking those in high places,
and indeed his life was afterwards repeatedly aimed at; but Providence foiled all attempts
to assassinate him, and in the end he died a peaceful death. On November 9th, 1572, a fortnight
before he died, he preached his farewell sermon, the entire congregation following his tottering
footsteps to his home. When the time came for him to die he asked for I Corinthians xv., and
after that had been read he remarked: "Is not that a comfortable chapter?" There was also read
to him Isaiah liii. Asked if he could hear, he replied: "I hear, I thank God, and understand
far better." He afterwards said to his wife, "Read, where I cast my first anchor." Mrs. Knox
knew what he meant, and read to him his favourite seventeenth chapter of St. John's Gospel.
His friend Bannatyne, seeing that he was just about to depart, and was becoming speechless,
drew near to him saying, "Hast thou hope?" and asked him if he heard to give them a sign that
he died in peace. Knox pointed upwards with two of his fingers, and thus he died without a
struggle. Truly one of the most remarkable men that ever lived in Scotland, and whose end was
peace.

A vast concourse of people attended his funeral, the nobility walking in front of the procession,
headed by Morton, who had been appointed Regent of Scotland on the very day on which Knox died,
and whose panegyric at the grave was: "Here lieth a man who in his life never feared the face
of man."

St. Giles's was the first parochial church in Edinburgh, and its history dates from the early
part of the twelfth century. John Knox was appointed its minister at the Reformation. When
Edinburgh was created a bishopric, the Church of St. Giles became the Cathedral of the diocese.
A remarkable incident happened at this church on Sunday, July 23rd, 1639, when King Charles
I ordered the English service-book to be used. It was the custom of the people in those days
to bring their own seats to church, in the shape of folding-stools, and just as Dean Hanney
was about to read the collect for the day, a woman in the congregation named Jenny Geddes,
who must have had a strong objection to this innovation, astonished the dean by suddenly throwing
her stool at his head. What Jenny's punishment was for this violent offence we did not hear,
but her stool was still preserved together with John Knox's pulpit and other relics.

Although three hundred years save one had elapsed since John Knox departed this life, his memory
was still greatly revered in Edinburgh, and his spirit still seemed to pervade the whole place
and to dwell in the hearts and minds of the people with whom we came in contact. A good illustration
of this was the story related by an American visitor. He was being driven round the city, when
the coachman pointed out the residence of John Knox. "And who was John Knox?" he asked. The
coachman seemed quite shocked that he did not know John Knox, and, looking down on him with
an eye of pity, replied, in a tone of great solemnity, "Deed, mawn, an' d'ye no read y'r Beeble!"

As we walked about the crowded streets of Edinburgh that Sunday evening we did not see a single
drunken person, a fact which we attributed to the closing of public houses in Scotland on Sundays.
We wished that a similar enactment might be passed in England, for there many people might
habitually be seen much the worse for liquor on Sunday evenings, to the great annoyance of
those returning from their various places of worship.

FOURTH WEEK'S JOURNEY

Monday, October 9th

There were some streets in Edinburgh called wynds, and it was in one of these, the College
Wynd, that Sir Walter Scott was born in the year 1771. It seemed a strange coincidence that
the great Dr. Samuel Johnson should have visited the city in the same year, and have been conducted
by Boswell and Principal Robertson to inspect the college along that same wynd when the future
Sir Walter Scott was only about two years old. We had not yet ventured to explore one of these
ancient wynds, as they appeared to us like private passages between two rows of tall houses.
As we could not see the other end, we looked upon them as traps for the unwary, but we mustered
up our courage and decided to explore one of them before leaving the town. We therefore rose
early and selected one of an antiquated appearance, but we must confess to a feeling of some
apprehension in entering it, as the houses on each side were of six to eight storeys high,
and so lofty that they appeared almost to touch each other at the top. To make matters worse
for us, there were a number of poles projecting from the windows high above our track, for
use on washing days, when clothes were hung upon them to dry. We had not gone very far, when
my brother drew my attention to two women whose heads appeared through opposite windows in
the upper storeys, and who were talking to each other across the wynd. On our approach we heard
one of them call to the other in a mischievous tone of voice, "See! there's twa mair comin'!"
We were rather nervous already, so we beat an ignominious retreat, not knowing what might be
coming on our devoted heads if we proceeded farther. In the event of hostilities the two ladies
were so high up in the buildings, which were probably let in flats, that we should never have
been able to find them, and, like the stray sheep in the Pass of St. Ninians, we might never
have been found ourselves. We were probably taken for a pair of sporting young medical students
instead of grave searchers after wisdom and truth. We therefore returned to our hotel for the
early breakfast that was waiting for us, and left Edinburgh at 8.10 a.m. on our way towards
Peebles.

We journeyed along an upward gradient with a view of Craigmillar Castle to our left, obtaining
on our way a magnificent view of the fine city we had left behind us, with its castle, and
the more lofty elevation known as Arthur's Seat, from which portions of twelve counties might
be seen. It was a curiously shaped hill with ribs and bones crossing in various directions,
which geologists tell us are undoubted remains of an old volcano. It certainly was a very active
one, if one can judge by the quantity of debris it threw out. There was an old saying, especially
interesting to ladies, that if you washed your face at sunrise on May 1st, with dew collected
off the top of Arthur's Seat, you would be beautiful for ever. We were either too late or too
soon, as it was now October 9th, and as we had a lot to see on that day, with not overmuch
time to see it in, we left the dew to the ladies, feeling certain, however, that they would
be more likely to find it there in October than on May Day. When we had walked about five miles,
we turned off the main road to visit the pretty village of Rosslyn, or Roslin, with its three
great attractions: the chapel, the castle, and the dell. We found it surrounded by woods and
watered by a very pretty reach of the River Esk, and as full of history as almost any place
in Scotland.

The unique chapel was the great object of interest. The guide informed us that it was founded
in 1446 by William St. Clair, who also built the castle, in which he resided in princely splendour.
He must have been a person of very great importance, for he had titles enough even to weary
a Spaniard, being Prince of Orkney, Duke of Oldenburg, Earl of Caithness and Stratherne, Lord
St. Clair, Lord Liddlesdale, Lord Admiral of the Scottish Seas, Lord Chief Justice of Scotland,
Lord Warden of the three Marches, Baron of Roslin, Knight of the Cockle, and High Chancellor,
Chamberlain, and Lieutenant of Scotland!

The lords of Rosslyn were buried in their complete armour beneath the chapel floor up to the
year 1650, but afterwards in coffins. Sir Walter Scott refers to them in his "Lay of the Last
Minstrel" thus:--

  There are twenty of Rosslyn's Barons bold
  Lie buried within that proud Chapelle.

There were more carvings in Rosslyn Chapel than in any place of equal size that we saw in all
our wanderings, finely executed, and with every small detail beautifully finished and exquisitely
carved. Foliage, flowers, and ferns abounded, and religious allegories, such as the Seven Acts
of Mercy, the Seven Deadly Sins, the Dance of Death, and many scenes from the Scriptures; it
was thought that the original idea had been to represent a Bible in stone. The great object
of interest was the magnificently carved pillar known as the "'Prentice Pillar," and in the
chapel were two carved heads, each of them showing a deep scar on the right temple. To these,
as well as the pillar, a melancholy memory was attached, from which it appeared that the master
mason received orders that this pillar should be of exquisite workmanship and design. Fearing
his inability to carry out his instructions, he went abroad to Rome to see what designs he
could find for its execution. While he was away his apprentice had a dream in which he saw
a most beautiful column, and, setting to work at once to carry out the design of his dream,
finished the pillar, a perfect marvel of workmanship. When his master returned and found the
pillar completed, he was so envious and enraged at the success of his apprentice that he struck
him on the head with his mallet with such force that he killed him on the spot, a crime for
which he was afterwards executed.

We passed on to the castle across a very narrow bridge over a ravine, but we did not find much
there except a modern-looking house built with some of the old stones, under which were four
dungeons. Rosslyn was associated with scenes rendered famous by Bruce and Wallace, Queen Mary
and Rizzio, Robert III and Queen Annabella Drummond, by Comyn and Fraser, and by the St. Clairs,
as well as by legendary stories of the Laird of Gilmorton Grange, who set fire to the house
in which were his beautiful daughter and her lover, the guilty abbot, so that both of them
were burnt to death, and of the Lady of Woodhouselee, a white-robed, restless spectre, who
appeared with her infant in her arms. Then there was the triple battle between the Scots and
the English, in which the Scots were victorious:

  Three triumphs in a day!
  Three hosts subdued by one!
  Three armies scattered like the spray,
  Beneath one vernal sun.

Here, too, was the inn, now the caretaker's house, visited by Dr. Johnson and Boswell in 1773,
the poet Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy in 1803, while some of the many other celebrities
who called from time to time had left their signatures on the window-panes. Burns and his friend
Nasmyth the artist breakfasted there on one occasion, and Burns was so pleased with the catering
that he rewarded the landlady by scratching on a pewter plate the two following verses:

  My blessings on you, sonsie wife,
    I ne'er was here before;
  You've gien us walth for horn and knife--
    Nae heart could wish for more.

  Heaven keep you free from care and strife.
    Till far ayont four score;
  And while I toddle on through life,
    I'll ne'er gang bye your door.

Rosslyn at one time was a quiet place and only thought of in Edinburgh when an explosion was
heard at the Rosslyn gunpowder works. But many more visitors appeared after Sir Walter Scott
raised it to eminence by his famous "Lay" and his ballad of "Rosabelle":

  Seem'd all on fire that chapel proud.
  Where Rosslyn's chiefs uncoffin'd lie.

Hawthornden was quite near where stood Ben Jonson's sycamore, and Drummond's Halls, and Cyprus
Grove, but we had no time to see the caves where Sir Alexander Ramsay had such hairbreadth
escapes. About the end of the year 1618 Ben Jonson, then Poet Laureate of England, walked from
London to Edinburgh to visit his friend Taylor, the Thames waterman, commonly known as the
Water Poet, who at that time was at Leith. In the January following he called to see the poet
Drummond of Hawthornden, who was more frequently called by the name of the place where he lived
than by his own. He found him sitting in front of his house, and as he approached Drummond
welcomed him with the poetical salutation:

  "Welcome! welcome! Royal Ben,"

to which Jonson responded,

  "Thank ye, thank ye, Hawthornden."

The poet Drummond was born in 1585, and died in 1649, his end being hastened by grief at the
execution of Charles I. A relative erected a monument to his memory in 1784, to which the poet
Young added the following lines:

  O sacred solitude, divine retreat,
  Choice of the prudent, envy of the great!
  By the pure stream, or in the waving shade
  I court fair Wisdom, that celestial maid;
  Here from the ways of men, laid safe ashore,
  I smile to hear the distant tempest roar;
  Here, blest with health, with business unperplex'd,
  This life I relish, and secure the next.

We walked very quietly and quickly past the gunpowder works, lest conversation might cause
an explosion that would put an end to our walking expedition and ourselves at the same time,
and regained the highway at a point about seven miles from Edinburgh. Presently we came to
the Glencorse Barracks, some portions of which adjoined our road, and, judging from the dress
and speech of the solitary sentinel who was pacing to and fro in front of the entrance, we
concluded that a regiment of Highlanders must be stationed there. He informed us that in the
time of the French Wars some of the prisoners were employed in making Scotch banknotes at a
mill close by, and that portions of the barracks were still used for prisoners, deserters,
and the like. Passing on to Pennicuick, we crossed a stream that flowed from the direction
of the Pentland Hills, and were informed that no less than seven paper mills were worked by
that stream within a distance of five miles. Here we saw a monument which commemorated the
interment of 309 French prisoners who died during the years 1811 to 1814, a list of their names
being still in existence. This apparently large death-rate could not have been due to the unhealthiness
of the Glencorse Barracks, where they were confined, for it was by repute one of the healthiest
in the kingdom, the road being 600 feet or more above sea-level, and the district generally,
including Pennicuick, considered a desirable health-resort for persons suffering from pulmonary
complaints. We stayed a short time here for refreshments, and outside the town we came in contact
with two young men who were travelling a mile or two on our way, with whom we joined company.
We were giving them an outline of our journey and they were relating to us their version of
the massacre of Glencoe, when suddenly a pretty little squirrel crossed our path and ran into
a wood opposite. This caused the massacre story to be ended abruptly and roused the bloodthirsty
instinct of the two Scots, who at once began to throw stones at it with murderous intent. We
watched the battle as the squirrel jumped from branch to branch and passed from one tree to
another until it reached one of rather large dimensions. At this stage our friends' ammunition,
which they had gathered hastily from the road, became exhausted, and we saw the squirrel looking
at them from behind the trunk of the tree as they went to gather another supply. Before they
were again ready for action the squirrel disappeared. We were pleased that it escaped, for
our companions were good shots. They explained to us that squirrels were difficult animals
to kill with a stone, unless they were hit under the throat. Stone-throwing was quite a common
practice for country boys in Scotland, and many of them became so expert that they could hit
small objects at a considerable distance. We were fairly good hands at it ourselves. It was
rather a cruel sport, but loose stones were always plentiful on the roads--for the surfaces
were not rolled, as in later years--and small animals, such as dogs and cats and all kinds
of birds, were tempting targets. Dogs were the greatest sufferers, as they were more aggressive
on the roads, and as my brother had once been bitten by one it was woe to the dog that came
within his reach. Such was the accuracy acquired in the art of stone-throwing at these animals,
that even stooping down in the road and pretending to lift a stone often caused the most savage
dog to retreat quickly. We parted from the two Scots without asking them to finish their story
of Glencoe, as the details were already fixed in our memories. They told us our road skirted
a moor which extended for forty-seven miles or nearly as far as Glasgow, but we did not see
much of the moor as we travelled in a different direction.

We passed through Edleston, where the church was dedicated to St. Mungo, reminding us of Mungo
Park, the famous African traveller, and, strangely enough, it appeared we were not far away
from where he was born. In the churchyard here was a tombstone to the memory of four ministers
named Robertson, who followed each other in a direct line extending to 160 years. There was
also to be seen the ancient "Jougs," or iron rings in which the necks of criminals were enclosed
and fastened to a wall or post or tree. About three miles before reaching Peebles we came to
the Mansion of Cringletie, the residence of the Wolfe-Murray family. The name of Wolfe had
been adopted because one of the Murrays greatly distinguished himself at the Battle of Quebec,
and on the lawn in front of the house was a cannon on which the following words had been engraved:

   His Majesty's Ship Royal George of 108 guns, sunk at Spithead 29th
   August 1782. This gun, a 32 pounder, part of the armament of the
   Royal George, was fished up from the wreck of that ship by Mr. Deans,
   the zealous and enterprising Diver, on the 15th November 1836, and
   was presented by the Master-General and Board of Ordnance to General
   Durham of Largo, the elder Brother of Sir Philip Charles Henderson
   Durham, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Military Order of
   the Bath, Knight Commander of the Most Ancient Military Order of
   Merit of France, Admiral of the White Squadron of Her Majesty's
   Fleet, and Commander-in-Chief of the Port of Portsmouth, 1836.

Sir Philip was serving as a lieutenant in the Royal George, and was actually on duty as officer
of the watch upon deck when the awful catastrophe took place. He was providentially and miraculously
saved, but nearly 900 persons perished, amongst them the brave Admiral Kempenfelt, whose flag
went down with the ship.

The wreck of the Royal George was the most awful disaster that had hitherto happened to the
Royal Navy. William Cowper the poet, as soon as the sad news was brought to him, wrote a solemn
poem entitled "The Loss of the Royal George," from which it seems that Admiral Kempenfelt was
in his cabin when the great ship suddenly foundered.

It was nearly dark when we entered the town of Peebles, where we called at the post office
for letters, and experienced some difficulty at first in obtaining lodgings, seeing that it
was the night before the Hiring Fair. We went first to the Temperance Hotel, but all the beds
had been taken down to make room for the great company they expected on the morrow; eventually
we found good accommodation at the "Cross Keys Inn," formerly the residence of a country laird.

We had seen notices posted about the town informing the public that, by order of the Magistrates,
who saw the evil of intoxicating drinks, refreshments were to be provided the following day
at the Town Hall. The Good Templars had also issued a notice that they were having a tea-party,
for which of course we could not stay.

We found Peebles a most interesting place, and the neighbourhood immediately surrounding it
was full of history. The site on which our hotel had been built was that of the hostelage belonging
to the Abbey of Arbroath in 1317, the monks granting the hostelage to William Maceon, a burgess
of Peebles, on condition that he would give to them, and their attorneys, honest lodging whenever
business brought them to that town. He was to let them have the use of the hall, with tables
and trestles, also the use of the spence (pantry) and buttery, sleeping chambers, a decent
kitchen, and stables, and to provide them with the best candles of Paris, with rushes for the
floor and salt for the table. In later times it was the town house of Williamson of Cardrona,
and in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries became one of the principal inns, especially
for those who, like ourselves, were travelling from the north, and was conducted by a family
named Ritchie. Sir Walter Scott, who at that time resided quite near, frequented the house,
which in his day was called the "Yett," and we were shown the room he sat in. Miss Ritchie,
the landlady in Scott's day, who died in 1841, was the prototype of "Meg Dobs," the inn being
the "Cleikum Inn" of his novel St. Ronan's Well.

There was a St. Mungo's Well in Peebles, and Mungo Park was intimately associated with the
town. He was born at Foulshiels, Yarrow, in the same year as Sir Walter Scott, 1771, just one
hundred years before our visit, and, after studying for the Church, adopted medicine as his
profession. He served a short time with a doctor at Selkirk, before completing his course at
the University of Edinburgh, and sailed in 1792 for the East Indies in the service of the East
India Company. Later he joined an association for the promotion of discovery in Africa, and
in 1795 he explored the basin of the Niger. In 1798 he was in London, and in 1801 began practice
as a doctor in Peebles. He told Sir Walter Scott, after passing through one of the severe winters
in Peebleshire, that he would rather return to the wilds of Africa than pass another winter
there. He returned to London in December 1803 to sail with another expedition, but its departure
was delayed for a short time, so he again visited Peebles, and astonished the people there
by bringing with him a black man named "Sidi Omback Boubi," who was to be his tutor in Arabic.
Meantime, in 1779, he had published a book entitled Travels in the Interior of Africa, which
caused a profound sensation at the time on account of the wonderful stories it contained of
adventures in what was then an unknown part of the world. This book of "Adventures of Mungo
Park" was highly popular and extensively read throughout the country, by ourselves amongst
the rest.

It was not until January 29th, 1805, that the expedition left Spithead, and before Mungo Park
left Peebles he rode over to Clovenfords, where Sir Walter Scott was then residing, to stay
a night with him at Ashestiel. Sir Walter said, "I am afraid, Mungo, that is a bad omen," to
which Park replied, smiling, "Friets (omens) follow those that look for them," and so they
parted for ever. In company with his friends Anderson and Scott he explored the rivers Gambia
and Niger, but his friends died, and Dr. Park himself was murdered by hostile natives who attacked
his canoe in the River Niger.

Quite near our lodgings was the house where this famous African traveller lived and practised
blood-letting as a surgeon, and where dreams of the tent in which he was once a prisoner and
of dark faces came to him at night, while the door at which his horse was tethered as he went
to see Sir Walter Scott, and the window out of which he put his head when knocked up in the
night, were all shown as objects of interest to visitors. Mungo had at least one strange patient,
and that was the Black Dwarf, David Ritchie, who lies buried close to the gate in the old churchyard.
This was a horrid-looking creature, who paraded the country as a privileged beggar. He affected
to be a judge of female beauty, and there was a hole in the wall of his cottage through which
the fair maidens had to look, a rose being passed through if his fantastic fancies were pleased;
but if not, the tiny window was closed in their faces. He was known to Sir Walter Scott, who
adopted his name in one of his novels, The Bowed Davie of the Windus. His cottage, which was
practically in the same state as at the period of David Ritchie's death, bore a tablet showing
that it had been restored by the great Edinburgh publishers W. and R. Chambers, who were natives
of Peebles, and worded: "In memory D.R., died 1811. W. and R. Chambers, 1845."

Dr. Pennicuick, who flourished A.D. 1652-1722, had written:

  Peebles, the Metropolis of the shire,
  Six times three praises doth from me require;
  Three streets, three ports, three bridges, it adorn,
  And three old steeples by three churches borne,
  Three mills to serve the town in time of need.
  On Peebles water, and on River Tweed,
  Their arms are proper, and point forth their meaning,
  Three salmon fishes nimbly counter swimming;

but there were other "Threes" connected with Peebles both before and after the doctor's time:
"The Three Tales of the Three Priests of Peebles," supposed to have been told about the year
1460 before a blazing fire at the "Virgin Inn."

There were also the Three Hopes buried in the churchyard, whose tombstone records:

  Here lie three Hopes enclosed within,
  Death's prisoners by Adam's sin;
  Yet rest in hope that they shall be
  Set by the Second Adam free.

And there were probably other triplets, but when my brother suggested there were also three
letter e's in the name of Peebles, I reminded him that it was closing-time, and also bed-time,
so we rested that night in an old inn such as Charles Dickens would have been delighted to
patronise.

(Distance walked twenty-five miles.)

Tuesday, October 10th.

This was the day of the Great Peebles Fair, and everybody was awake early, including ourselves.
We left the "Cross Keys" hotel at six o'clock in the morning, and a very cold one it was, for
there had been a sharp frost during the night. The famous old Cross formerly stood near our
inn, and the Cross Church close at hand, or rather all that remained of them after the wars.
In spite of the somewhat modern appearance of the town, which was probably the result of the
business element introduced by the establishment of the woollen factories, Peebles was in reality
one of the ancient royal burghs, and formerly an ecclesiastical centre of considerable importance,
for in the reign of Alexander III several very old relics were said to have been found, including
what was supposed to be a fragment of the true Cross, and with it the calcined bones of St.
Nicholas, who suffered in the Roman persecution, A.D. 294. On the strength of these discoveries
the king ordered a magnificent church to be erected, which caused Peebles to be a Mecca for
pilgrims, who came there from all parts to venerate the relics. The building was known as the
Cross Church, where a monastery was founded at the desire of James III in 1473 and attached
to the church, in truly Christian spirit, one-third of its revenues being devoted to the redemption
of Christian captives who remained in the hands of the Turks after the Crusades.

If we had visited the town in past ages, there would not have been any fair on October 10th,
since the Great Fair, called the Beltane Festival, was then held on May Day; but after the
finding of the relics it was made the occasion on which to celebrate the "Finding of the Cross,"
pilgrims and merchants coming from all parts to join the festivities and attend the special
celebrations at the Cross Church. On the occasion of a Beltane Fair it was the custom to light
a fire on the hill, round which the young people danced and feasted on cakes made of milk and
eggs. We thought Beltane was the name of a Sun-god, but it appeared that it was a Gaelic word
meaning Bel, or Beal's-fire, and probably originated from the Baal mentioned in Holy Writ.

