DEAR SIR,--Friday will suit me very well for your call, at any time you please. You are quite
right to avoid Figgis; he is one of the small horse-dealing class who are a discredit to our
country districts. Any further information is at your service.

DEAR MR. ROBERTS,--I have now pleasure in enclosing cheque for £65 for bay horse. As stated
to you when I called at South Farm, I was not in a position to go beyond £60 without further
authorisation; this I have now obtained. Thanking you for the patriotic spirit you have shown
in this little business,

Yours truly, M. FOPSTONE.

From the Adjutant, Royal Beetshire Hussars, Tickful Camp, to Messrs. Davison Bros., The Mart,
Southtown.

Jan. 1st, 1916.

Please enter bay gelding, aged, sent herewith, in your next sale without reserve, as he is
not sound and of no use to Army.

Memo. from Davison Bros. to Adjutant.

Jan. 17th, 1916.

DEAR SIR,--Herewith please find cheque £5 4s. 3d. for bay gelding, being amount realised for
same, less our commission and expenses.

Yours faithfully, DAVISON BROS.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Times heads an article, "Unity in the Air." It deals, however, with the new Anglo-French
Aviation Conference and has nothing to do with the latest Peter Pan.

       *       *       *       *       *

GALLIPOLI-AND AFTER? This the name of weekly paper that is published in Clyde district, and
has of late emerged from obscurity by "deliberately inciting workers," as LLOYD GEORGE said,
"not to carry out Act of Parliament passed in order to promote the output of munitions." On
motion for adjournment PRINGLE perceived opportunity of attacking MINISTER OF MUNITIONS. Accused
him of suppressing the sheet because it had reported proceedings at meetings attended by him
in Glasgow, at which his speech was interrupted by noisy minority. This course of procedure
imitated by PRINGLE when LLOYD GEORGE, replying, quoted passages in the paper making violent
attack on the KING and systematic attempts to stem flood of recruiting.

"These things," said the MINISTER, in passage loudly cheered, "meant life or death to our men
in the field. They are not suitable matters for Parliamentary sport. We are dealing in tragedies.
I am doing my best to save the men at the Front. I am entitled to be helped, not to be harried."

OUTHWAITE, coming to assistance of PRINGLE, otherwise prangling all forlorn, jumped upon by
Captain CAMPBELL.

"If I had the Hon. Member in my battalion at the Front," he said, "he would be strung up by
the thumbs before he had been there half-an-hour."

This scarcely Parliamentary; but it passed the Chair, leaving the gallant Captain, who modestly
wears well-won ribbon of D.S.O., time to adjure the House to "get on with the War."

Business done.--In House barely half full Motion carried calling upon Government to enter into
consultation with the Overseas Dominions in order to bring economic strength of Empire into
co-operation with our Allies in a policy directed against the enemy.

Tuesday.--Said with truth that a speech in the House of Commons, however forcible and eloquent,
rarely influences a vote. Some orators, however, have gift of stirring the soul to emotions
that carry a man to actions beyond range of conventionality. Such an one is the Right Hon.
THOMAS LOUGH, commonly and affectionately known through several Parliaments as "Tommy." One
of small faction of Liberals who have not withdrawn opposition to Military Service Bill. Declaiming
against it just now on motion for Second Reading, he described it as a sham.

"It is not true," he said, "that young unmarried men have held back. On the contrary they have
come forward nobly and in great numbers."

Vindication of a maligned class so affected somebody seated in the Strangers' Gallery that
he loudly clapped his hands. This a decided breach of order. The Assyrians (in form of Gallery
attendants) came down upon him like a wolf on the fold. Ordered him to withdraw. He explained
that he was so entirely at one with argument of the Hon. Member for West Islington that he
preferred to remain to listen to continuance of his speech. Assyrians insistent on his immediate
departure. Martial spirit of young unmarried man roused. Refused to budge. Whereupon the Assyrians,
lifting him out of the seat, carried him forth vi et armis--free translation, by legs and arms.

From his seat below the Gangway Mr. FLAVIN watched procedure with wistful eyes. Remembered
how towards break of day dawning on an all-night sitting held towards the close of last century
he also was carried forth shoulder high, not by officers of the House in nice white shirt fronts,
with glittering badges hung round their necks, but by the common or street policeman helmeted
and belted. As he journeyed he sang, "God save Ireland," his compatriots, more or less attuned,
joining in the chorus.

Recognition of historical incident sharply marks contrast in attitude of Irish Members then
and now. Still fighting for Home Rule they stopped short of no outrage upon order, systematically
and successfully obstructing public business. Military Service Bill offers enticing opportunities
for exercise of old tactics. They might, if they pleased, keep House sitting for weeks fighting
Bill in Committee line by line, word by word, as was their custom of an afternoon, and half-way
through the night, in days of old. Other times other manners. Interposing early in debate JOHN
REDMOND announced that his party, having made their protest against Bill in Division Lobby
on First Reading, would withdraw from further opposition.

Business done--Second Reading of Military Service Bill moved.

Wednesday.--Sir GEORGE REID, having completed term of service as High Commissioner of Australia,
took his seat as Member for St. George's, Hanover Square. Carefully dismounting at Bar from
his native steed he was introduced by BONAR LAW, Unionist Colonial Secretary, and HARCOURT,
Colonial Secretary in late Liberal Government. This concatenation of circumstance, testifying
to universal esteem and exceptional personal popularity, unique in Parliamentary records.

New-comer will serve in double capacity. Nominally Member for St. George's, he will also be
Member for Australia, an innovation that will probably have wider scope and formal recognition
when the Overseas Dominions have completed their splendid work of helping the Mother Country
to bring the War to triumphant conclusion.

GEORGE REID'S career on a new stage will be watched with keen interest in his two antipodal
homes. Since, six years ago, he came to London, he has acquired the reputation of being one
of the best after-dinner speakers of the day. How will the qualities that ensure success in
that direction serve him at Westminster? MACAULAY truly said, "The House of Commons is the
most peculiar audience in the world. A place in which I would not promise success to any man."

The MEMBER FOR SARK puts his money (or such portion as is left after paying War taxes) on the
Member for St. George's, Hanover Square-cum-Australia.

Debate on Second Reading of Military Service Bill resumed. Best thing said during two days'
talk was an incidental remark of BIRRELL'S. Relating history of Bill in Cabinet he said he
had felt it his duty to say something about Ireland.

"What I said," he added, "is of course known only to those of my colleagues who were sitting
round the table and to such representatives of the London Press as were sitting underneath it."

This hint explains mystery clouding the fact that whilst the secrets of Cabinet Councils are
held to be inviolable there are morning papers able habitually to give detailed information
of what passes behind the locked and barred doors.

Business done.--Second Reading of Military Service Bill carried by 431 votes against 39.

Thursday.--After advancing three minor Government Bills a stage, House adjourned at 5.30.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OFFICIAL STYLE.

Extract from an Indian Service register:--

    "Service Order 41 of 1914, dated 16-10-14. He was appointed
    acting Forest Guard and posted to Surumoni beat, in place of
    Chowdri Zaicko, Forest Guard, who was devoured by a tiger with
    effect from the forenoon of 16th Oct. 1914."

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE BACK OF THE FRONT.

Here where the world is quiet except for the noise of the rain trickling into one's valise
through the nooks and crannies of one's rustic apartment--here where there is no peril from
above and no peril from in front, neither peril of enfilade, here too--it is a Base I am doing
this sentence about--we have our problems.

To begin with there is the glorious uncertainty of things. Some men are here to-day and the
far side of Wipers to-morrow night. Others arrive from England thirsting for all sorts of things
that no sane man ever wants to have anything to do with, and are kept doing a bomb course and
a machine-gun course on alternate days for eight months. There is a tale told of one such who,
when he was finally sent to the trenches, was returned as hopeless after three days because
he would do nothing except sit beside a machine gun trying to fill the belt with grenades.
There is no sadder story in the War.

Now if I knew for certain that I was going to be here eight months I could marry and settle
down. Or if I knew for certain I was for Wipers to-morrow night I could make a new will--not
that there's anything the matter with the old one, but I met a man on leave who put me up to
some good tips in will-making--and settle up. But as it is part of our military system for
junior officers not to know anything I dare not even have my letters forwarded.

Anyhow, Bases are not what they were in my young days. Of course there were always parades;
but you obviously couldn't parade while you were busy over some Alternative Necessary Duty.
Alternative Necessary Duties were always my strongest suit. On the evening of my arrival in
camp I would summon the Band Sergeant and provide him with my programme of work. On Monday
he would please arrange for a criminal in my detail. On Tuesday I would use my influence in
the matter of obtaining clothing for my detail. This would be a very laborious task, involving
three signatures in ink or indelible pencil; but no matter, to a good officer the comfort of
his men comes before everything. On Wednesday I would pay my men. Rotten job, paying out, but
ensures Generous Glow, and no expense unless you lose the Acquittance Roll. On Thursday I would
read Standing Orders to the latest arrived draft; maybe they had had this done to them once
already, but one cannot be too particular. A private I know of who had only had Standing Orders
read to him once got into awful trouble through carelessly kicking a recalcitrant corporal
on the head. That just shows you. On Friday--but I weary you, if that be possible. Suffice
it that the Base went very well then.

The trouble began, as usual, high up. The G.O. Commanding something most frightfully important
inspected one of our parades one morning and found 7,528 other ranks under one Second-Lieutenant.
All might have been well if the Second-Lieutenant had not forgotten to fire the correct salute
of fourteen bombs (or whatever was the correct salute). The G.O.C. investigated. He searched
the woods and delved in the instructional trenches, but never another officer came to light.
So he went home and, after a bad lunch--we surmise--set himself to abolish Alternative Necessary
Duties in a formal edict. No officer is to absent himself from a parade except by the express
orders of an O.C. Base Depôt.

This happened several days ago, and the ruling is probably obsolete by now, but I am wondering
how I shall break the news to the G.O.C. if I should happen to meet him on one of my morning
walks into town; and in my heart of heart I know that one fine morning I shall be cowardly,
and wake before nine, and attend my first parade at army Base. Some zealous despatch rider
will dash hot-foot to the G.O.C. with the news, and he will come and rub his hands and chuckle
and gloat. It will be a Black Day.

Here too there are minor points of etiquette that vex one. Is it correct for me, having bought
half a kilo of chocolates while waiting for a train, to kill further time by eating them out
of a paper bag under the surveillance of an A.S.C. sergeant? or ought I to offer a few to the
sergeant with some jeu d'esprit--never coarse and never cruel--about bully beef? Of such are
the complexities with which a Base harasses the soul of an officer nurtured in the genial simplicity
of trench life.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an account of the Peace demonstration in Berlin:--

    "The people simply turned up themselves, and everyone was highly
    turned up themselves, and everyone was highly pleased with the
    result."--Egyptian Mail.

It seems to have been a complete revolution.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY LISPINGS.

The "motive" of Mrs. Pumfrey Lord's new novel is Christian Science, and the hero, the Duke
of Southminster, is understood to be a composite portrait of Lord ROSEBERY and Mr. GLADSTONE.
The character of the evil genius of the plot, Lord Rufus Doldrum, is partly modelled on ALCIBIADES,
but in its main lines is reminiscent of Mrs. EDDY and Major WINSTON CHURCHILL. On the other
hand the eccentric Lord Wymondham, who creates a sensation by appearing at a Cabinet meeting
in accordion-pleated pyjamas, is understood to be an entirely imaginary personage. The novel,
which has been running in Wanamaker's Weekly, will shortly be published by the Strongmans.

A Poet who Counts.

Mr. Ouseley Pampfield, who has been recuperating at Buxton after spraining his ankle while
getting out of his magnificent motor, is now seeing his new volume of poems through the press.
Under the arresting title of The Soul of a Passivist they will shortly be published by the
firm of Coddler and Slack.

The Jimmisons Again.

The Long Lanes will shortly publish a new "Jimmison" novel, The Factota. The heroine is a young
lady enamoured of the doctrine of the economic independence of women. She enters a Draper's
Emporium in Manchester and works her way up to the post of manager, but heads a strike of the
work-girls. The claims of romance, however, are not overlooked, for in the long run Retta Carboy--for
that is her charming name--wins the hand and heart of the junior partner's chauffeur, who turns
out to be son of the Earl of Ancoats. The scene in which the Rolls-Royce, frightened by the
sight of some Highland cattle, executes a cross-cut counter-rocking skid, is one of the finest
things the Jimmisons have ever done.

Armageddon in the Making.

Governesses, so long the butt of unkindly satire, have at last come by their own. Miss Bertha
Bowlong, who was governess to the KAISER in the late "sixties," is shortly about to publish
her reminiscences of her now all-too-notorious pupil. Strange to say it never occurred to her
to set them down till quite recently, nearly fifty years after the event. The book, which is
now announced by the Talboys, is rich in illuminating anecdotes of the future WAR LORD, as
well as vivid portraits of MOLTKE, BISMARCK, TREITSCHKE, MÜNCHHAUSEN, Eulenspiegel, Dudelsack
and other luminaries of the Prussian capital.

The Charm of Cannibalism.

Miss Ermyntrude Stuggy (Mrs. Raymond Blott), whose extraordinary novel, The Lurid Lady, was
described by Father BERNARD VAUGHAN as the most "precipitous" book he had ever preached on,
has returned to England after two years' residence among the cannibals of the Solomon Islands.
Hence the title of her forthcoming volume, The Adorable Anthropophagi, which is already announced
by Messrs. Hybrow and Garbidge. The contents explain why Mr. Blott has heroically preferred
to remain with the cannibals.

Major Finch's Great Discovery.

Major Hector Finch, the famous Nationalist M.P., philosopher, psychologist and scholar, has
made a remarkable literary discovery. It is that Johnson's Dictionary is not, as is generally
supposed, the work of BEN JONSON, but of SAMUEL JOHNSON, the son of a Lichfield bookseller.
This epoch-making revelation, briefly and modestly outlined in a letter to The Daily Chronicle,
will be set forth in detail in a massive volume of 1,000 pages, with a portrait of the author,
to be issued shortly by the House of Swallow and Gull.

Odds and Ends.

The Vegetarians, a novel with a strong dietetic interest by Janet Melinda Didham, is announced
by the firm of Gherkin Mark.

The Molly Monologues is the alluring title of a volume of sketches by Richard Turpin, shortly
appearing with Pincher and Steel.

Miss Loofah Windsor, who wrote The Washpot, a successful story of last summer, has just finished
a new one of a humorous type, called What--no Soap? which the Dinwiddies will publish in a
month or two.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A few lucky corps actually had geese to pave the way for the
    Christmas pudding; they were quartered in some place where a
    whip round among the officers and a ride to the nearest town or
    village secured enough geese to feed a battalion."

    Jersey Morning News.

Somehow we feel that this might have been more tactfully expressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. Dillon harangued the House for three-quarters of an hour on
    militarism, The Daily Mail, Suvla BaBy, and sundry other
    topics."

    Daily Mail.

An extended report of his remarks on this interesting infant would have been welcome.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE CARDS.

To many people wholly free from superstition, except that, after spilling the salt, they are
careful to throw a little over the left shoulder, and do not go out of their way to walk under
ladders, and are not improved in appetite by sitting thirteen at table, and much prefer that
may should not be brought into the house--to these people, otherwise so free from superstition,
it would perhaps be surprising to know what great numbers of their fellow-creatures resort
daily to such black arts as fortune-telling by the cards.

Yet quite respectable, God-fearing, church-going old ladies, and probably old gentlemen too,
treasure this practice, to say nothing of younger and therefore naturally more frivolous folk;
and many make the consultation of the two and fifty oracles a morning habit.

And particularly women. Those well-thumbed packs of cards that we know so well are not wholly
dedicated to "Patience," I can assure you.

All want to be told the same thing: what the day will bring forth. But each searcher into the
dim and dangerous future has, of course, individual methods--some shuffling seven times and
some ten, and so forth, and all intent upon placating the elfish goddess, Caprice. There is
little Miss Banks, for example, but I must tell you about her.

Nothing would induce little Miss Banks to leave the house in the morning without seeing what
the cards promised her, and so open and impressionable are her mind and heart that she is still
interested in the colour of the romantic fellow whom the day, if kind, is to fling across her
path. The cards, as you know, are great on colours, all men being divided into three groups:
dark (which has the preference), fair, and middling. Similarly for you, if you can get little
Miss Banks to read your fate (but you must of course shuffle the pack yourself) there are but
three kinds of charmers: dark (again the most fascinating and to be desired), fair, and middling.

It is great fun to watch little Miss Banks at her necromancy. She takes it so earnestly, literally
wrenching the future's secrets from their lair.

"A letter is coming to you from some one," she says. "An important letter."

And again, "I see a voyage over water."

Or very seriously, "There's a death."

You gasp.

"No, it's not yours. A fair woman's."

You laugh. "Only a fair woman's!" you say. "Go on."

But the cards have not only ambiguities, but strange reticences.

"Oh," little Miss Banks will say, her eyes large with excitement, "there's a payment of money
and a dark man."

"Good," you say.

"But I can't tell," she goes on, "whether you pay it to him or he pays it to you."

"That's a nice state of things," you say, becoming indignant. "Surely you can tell."

"No, I can't."

You begin to go over your dark acquaintances who might owe you money, and can think of none.

You then think of your dark acquaintances to whom you owe money, and are horrified at their number.

"Oh, well," you say, "the whole thing's rubbish, anyway."

Little Miss Banks's eyes dilate with pained astonishment. "Rubbish!"--and she begins to shuffle
again.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From "Notes for the Use of New Chaplains," by an Indian Archdeacon:

    "I have only given advice on matters where, to my own knowledge,
    an ignorance of procedure has led to adverse criticism with
    regard to breeches of etiquette."

Somebody seems to have been making fun of the venerable gentleman's continuations.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNWRITTEN LETTERS TO THE KAISER.

No. XXXIII.

(From Theodore Roosevelt, U.S.A.)

It's bully to live in a country where you can say what you like about the bosses, and that,
Sir, is what I've been doing and mean to go on doing to you. There's no manner of question
about it, you're the biggest boss and the most dangerous that we in this country have ever
come up against, and if our Government had only got a right idea of its bounden duty we should
have protested against your conduct, yes, and backed our protest by our deeds long before this;
but the fact is there's too much milk and water in the blood of some of our big fellows. They
whine when they ought to be up and denouncing, and they crouch and crawl instead of standing
upright like free and fearless men, and giving the devil's agent the straightest eye-puncher
of which the human arm is capable. I thank Heaven, Sir, that I'm not made on that plan. I'm
out to fight humbug and hypocrisy, even when they masquerade as friendship and benevolence;
and when I see a fellow coming along with hundreds of pious texts in his mouth, and his hands
dripping with the blood of innocent women and children, why, I've got to say what I think of
him or die.

A man called HOOD wrote that nearly eighty years ago, but it's quite true still. I wonder what
he would have written if he'd had the bad luck to know about you and your disgusting appeals
to the Almighty, whom you treat as if He were always waiting round the corner to be decorated
with the Iron Cross.

Now mind, I don't want you to deceive yourself. If I dislike you and feel as if I'd sooner
kick you than shake hands with you, it isn't because I'm a peace-at-any-price man. No man can
say that about me without qualifying for a place within easy reach of ANANIAS; but when I decide
to take part in a scrap--and there's few scraps going that I don't butt into sooner or later--I
like to feel that I've got a bit of right on my side. But how can you feel that when you over-run
Belgium and burn down Louvain--that's the place that made your heart bleed, bah!--and when
you shoot down Belgian hostages and do to death an English nurse? All that never seems to strike
you. You go on thinking of yourself as a holy humble man whom everybody wilfully mistakes for
a bully and a tyrant. Well, you can't fool everybody all the time, you know, and in this case
it happens that everybody has got some sound horse-sense in his head. Who wanted to hurt you?
You'd put together a great army and your commercial prosperity was a pretty good business proposition.
You'd got a navy and you'd got a very meek and submissive people, which didn't prevent them
from being harsh and domineering and cruel so far as other peoples were concerned. If you wanted
to have folk afraid of you there were plenty to humour you by pretending to tremble when you
frowned and shook your head. But you weren't going to be satisfied. You must have a war so
as to show what a great general you were, and you shoved on the old man FRANCIS JOSEPH and
kept urging him from behind until everyone got tired by the impossibility of making you come
out fair and square on the side of peace.

Well, you've got your war, and I hope you like it. This isn't one of your military promenades.
This is hard, long fighting against men whose only wish was to be left alone. You've forced
them to form a trust for the purpose of trust-busting, and in the end they'll wear you out
and have you beaten to a frazzle in spite of all you can do. You've lost millions of men and
millions of money, and you don't seem to get on with your final and decisive victory, and you're
still the vainest and the loudest man on earth. Isn't it just about time you saw yourself as
the rest of us see you, an irritable lime-light hero, whose favourite effort is to sink a Lusitania
and pretend he had to do it because he didn't think she'd go down or because there were too
many women and just enough children in the world? All I can say is that I've had more than
enough of you.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEYOND THE LIMIT.

    [The German General Staff declares that for air-warfare there
    are still lacking international laws of any kind.]

  When Peace lured the Powers to her House at the Hague
  With promises specious and welcome though vague
  Of a time when the terrors of war should lie hid
  And the leopard fall headlong in love with the kid,
  She drew up a set of Utopian rules
  For the guidance of all the best bellicose schools.

  Among the more notable schemes that she planned
  She fashioned them bounds to their methods on land,
  Taught the whole of them, too, how humane they could be
  If a scrap should occur, as it might, on the sea--
  In a word, pruned the pinions of war everywhere
  Save the one place that war could fly into--the air.

  But the Hun, he forswore what he vowed at her shrine,
  And behaved like a fiend on the soil and the brine;
  Then he turned to his Zepps, and remarked, "I can fly,
  And she never laid down any law for the sky;
  Here's a chance for some real dirty work to be done;"
  And he did it by simply out-Hunning the Hun.

       *       *       *       *       *

How to Save Your Teeth.

From the Soldiers and Sailors Dental Aid Fund (43, Leicester Square), which has done exceptional
service during the War, comes the story of an old lady who applied for a set of teeth for her
soldier grandson. When asked if he would know how to take care of them, she replied that she
would give him the benefit of her own experience, having always made it a rule to remove her
artificial teeth at meal times.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two cuttings from one issue of The Egyptian Mail:--

    "TREMENDOUS INCREASE IN RECRUITING.

    ANOTHER 1,000,000,000 MEN WANTED.