THE BAY STATE MONTHLY.

A Massachusetts Magazine.

VOL. II.

MARCH, 1885.

No. 6.

       *       *       *       *       *

LEE AND SHEPARD.

By George L. Austin, M.D.

For a quarter of a century the firm-name of Lee and Shepard has been familiar to the public.
During this interval of time it has been printed upon millions of volumes, which have gone
forth on their two-fold mission of instruction and entertainment. Few publishing houses in
America have achieved a more honorable record, or have more indelibly left their impress of
good intentions and of deeds nobly done upon the minds of increasing generations. It is of
the individual members of this firm, both of whom have grown gray in the business, that I purpose
to speak in this article. First of the senior partner of the house.

Born at the "North End," in Boston, on the seventeenth of April, 1826; early put to school,
and taken out of it at the age of eleven, at which time he was left fatherless, the eldest
of six children; with a good mother to whisper words of encouragement in his ear, when everything
in the world and the future before him looked dark,--such was the start of William Lee in life.
Thousands before him, and since, have had the same infelicitous experience; but how few have
had the courage to overcome the obstacles which he succeeded in overcoming? While other young
men of his age, many of them his playmates, were planning to fit themselves, by a long course
of study, for the duties of life, he was at once confronted with the duties and burdens of
life, without such advantages as an education affords, and he met them with a manliness and
a self-reliance which now seem truly marvelous. I have often heard him tell of these early
days; but I will pass by the recollections for fear that the recital of them might discourage
many who read these lines.

After leaving school young William was offered a situation in the bookstore of Samuel G. Drake,
then located at No. 56 Cornhill. Mr. Drake was himself a famous "book-worm," was familiar with
the authorities and the history of Boston, and, in after life, achieved a reputation as an
author. He was what one would term now an "old-fashioned bookseller," but what he did not know
of the book trade in his day was not worth knowing. William Lee entered his employ for two
purposes--to learn the trade and, in a very small way, to help support the family which was,
in a large sense, dependent upon him. During the three years of his apprenticeship he showed
himself an apt scholar, a patient worker, and gifted with indomitable will and ambition.

The next two years were passed in the country. On returning to Boston he again entered a book
store, and, when eighteen years of age, he became a clerk in the then prosperous publishing
house of Phillips and Sampson, located on Winter street. His connection with this house afforded
him increased advantages; he was no longer an apprentice filling a menial position, but was
conscious of occupying a responsible station in the business, where his integrity and intelligence
were appreciated at their real value. He enjoyed the fullest confidence of his employers, and
was soon looked upon by them as their "best" clerk. Selling by auction, especially in the evenings,
was at that time a leading feature of the trade, and William Lee soon became an expert in that
way, as well as in the general character of salesman to the country trade. There was scarcely
a detail in the book trade with which he did not make himself personally familiar; he sought
to post himself upon the character and contents of every book that was kept in stock, in order
that he might be able to speak intelligently of them to his customers. This habit of general
familiarization is one which, in the lapse of subsequent years, has proved of incalculable
service to him; it is one which cannot be too earnestly commended to the attention of all young
men who are to-day "working" up in the trade.

At the age of twenty-one William Lee was allowed a share in the business, and three years later
he accepted an equal partnership in the house. When it is remembered that at this time the
house of Phillips and Sampson stood foremost as publishers in New England, the fact that, at
the age of twenty-four, William Lee became an equal partner in this house is certainly striking.
It bears but one explanation: William Lee owed his remarkable success to the talent which was
born and bred in him, and to the consciousness of self-reliance, with which his employers,
first and last, had inspired him. There is nothing in this life which will so readily develop
the best qualities of manhood as a sense of responsibility, first to the individual himself
and next to those whom he serves. Take away this sense of responsibility, every man becomes
a machine; everything that he does is mechanical.

In the firm of Phillips, Sampson and Company Mr. Lee continued as a partner for seven years.
To his energy and industry the prosperity of the house was henceforth largely indebted. For
twelve, and sometimes fifteen hours a day, he remained faithfully at his round of duties.

In 1857 Mr. Lee's health gave way, and his physician ordered him to relinquish all cares of
business. Acting in accordance with this advice, he sold his interest to his partners for sixty-five
thousand dollars, taking the notes of the firm for that amount. After a few months of travel
in his own country, he sailed for Europe in June, 1858, in company with Willard Small, with
the intention of spending five years on the continent. He proved to be a good traveler; his
keen observation encompassed everything; his generous heart and the geniality of his nature
won to him many friends. Ere many months had elapsed he had traversed England, France, Germany,
Belgium, and Spain.

While he was in Paris, an incident occured, the recollection of which has served to enliven
many a social occasion. It was the exciting time succeeding the attempted assassination of
Napoleon by Orsini. Mr. Lee always wore a long, sandy beard, and in his travels sported a soft,
broad-brimmed hat. One day, while walking about the streets, he was arrested and taken to the
Palais de Justice. Explanations and expostulations proved unavailing. The prisoner was declared
to be a "red Republican," and, in those days, that was no joke. It was only after the production
of a passport and the interference of the United States consul, that the authorities were induced
to release their captive.

Mr. Lee was in Paris, and was on the point of making a second journey into Spain, when the
United States mail brought him a letter, conveying the tidings of the death of both Mr. Phillips
and Mr. Sampson, and the failure of the house.

The panic of 1857 had made sad havoc with the book trade generally, and those firms which weathered
the storm were sorely pressed. Phillips and Sampson met with heavy losses, but struggled on
in the hope of recovering lost ground. But, in 1859, the death of the senior members of the
firm seemed to paralyze its prosperity, and the worst quickly followed.

Mr. Lee had received no warning of the impending calamity, and for the time was much overcome
by the announcement. He foresaw what it implied, however, and at once returned to Boston, to
find himself a heavy loser by the financial disaster.

Still undaunted, he gathered up what remained of his fortune and, in February, 1860, he became
a member of the firm of Crosby, Nichols and Company, which had purchased many of the stereotype
plates belonging to the late firm of Phillips, Sampson and Company, and which now took the
name of Crosby, Nichols, Lee and Company. But the long stagnation of trade, succeeded by losses
in the southern states, consequent upon the political troubles of those days, bore heavily
upon the new firm; and, in the spring of 1861, Mr. Lee left the business and again trod the
streets of Boston without a dollar that he could call his own! Thus, after twenty years of
business activity, his fortune was gone, and nothing remained for him to do except to begin
life over again.

During the next few months Mr. Lee surveyed the field about him, endeavoring to discern what
could be accomplished with no other capital save brains. A decision was soon reached, and it
resulted from one of those little incidents of life, which, although rare indeed, make life
all the more worth living. I hope I betray no breach of trust in recalling it.

While walking down Washington street one day Mr. Lee encountered his friend of many years.

"What are you doing now, Charlie?" he asked.

"Nothing; and I'm as poor as a church mouse," was the reply.

"But, look here, Charlie, keep up your courage. I haven't got much myself; but I'll go halves
with you. Come up to my room to-night, and we'll talk matters over."

The friends parted, to meet again within a few hours in the glow of the gas-light. Affairs
were candidly and earnestly discussed, plans were laid, and then and there began the firm,
whose reputation has extended wherever the English language is spoken,--the house of LEE AND
SHEPARD.

It was February 1, 1862. The times were not propitious for a beginning at any trade, but the
partners were veterans in experience, and no sooner had they shaped their plans than the public
in many ways evinced its confidence in their undertaking. Better than a large capital was the
encouragement they received from all with whom they had formerly had dealings; and they began
under the most pleasing auspices.

The firm first occupied a very old, two-storied wooden building, known as "the old dye-house"
on Washington Street, opposite the Old South "Church."[A]

[Footnote A: On the site now occupied by the "Old South Clothing House."]

Of course the store soon began to show its incapacity for the growing business, just as the
"old corner" had done in the case of Ticknor and Fields, and as almost every ancient book-shop
has done in the last quarter of a century. The proprietors of the establishment were not only
their own employers, but their own employees as well. They attended to their own book-keeping,
did their own selling and buying, tied up their bundles and packed all the cases. Early and
late they shouldered their task, and started ahead. After three years thus spent the firm moved
into the new store at 149 Washington Street, which still remains, and which the firm continued
to occupy until 1873.

At this point it is convenient to go back a number of years and recount the principal events
in the life of the junior partner of the house: Charles A.B. Shepard.

If the boy could have had his own way, when he started in life, the chances are that to-day
he would be an American admiral. As it happened, his early passion and proclivities were not
fostered; he became a bookseller whom all the world now knows as "Charley Shepard."

He was born in Salem, Massachusetts, October 18th, 1829, and received his education at the
public school. He was one of the brightest scholars in his class, learned easily, was fond
of books, never wearied of study, and never forgot what he acquired. At the start he was blest
with a most marvelous and retentive memory, and a keen sense of the practical side of life.
"It was thus," as one of his friends has remarked, "that his school days were profitable to
him to a degree not common, and it was thus that his rapidly-growing literary attainments became
the astonishment of strangers and the never failing delight and surprise of his friends."

Mr. Shepard's father was a sea-faring man, who, however, took good care to check every inclination
towards that sort of life that existed in the mind of his son, at a very tender age. At his
business start, therefore, the boy was forced into a channel that was not of his own choosing.
At the age of fifteen, after having previously tried his skill as a boy of all work in the
grocery business, he entered the store of John P. Jewett, a bookseller at Salem. He remained
with Mr. Jewett eleven years, during which time he forgot all about the details of the West
India trade and instead acquired a perfect knowledge of those of the making and selling of
books. When, in 1846, Mr. Jewett removed to Boston and opened a store on Cornhill, Mr. Shepard
accompanied him, and by his untiring energy, his close application to business and his intelligent
way of conducting the affairs of the house in general, very largely contributed to the success
which, in those days, was accounted so remarkable. He was even then looked upon as the "hardest
worker" in the trade. He was the first to enter the store in the morning, and the last to leave
at night. To many, it seemed as if his hours were only hours of toil; and yet, few young men
of his age took life so easily as did he, or got more enjoyment out of it. It was during Mr.
Shepard's connection with the house of John P. Jewett that "Uncle Tom's Cabin" first saw the
light. The story of its publication has so often been told that it need not be repeated here.
Mr. Shepard recalls all the incidents associated with it as vividly to-day as though they were
but events of yesterday, and he is now the only living man that can tell them. As everybody
knows, the book bounded into success, due as much to the shrewd advertising of the publisher
as to the merits of the work itself. It redounds to the credit of Mr. Jewett that he never
hesitated to acknowledge that whatever success he had as a Boston publisher was largely due
to his sprightly clerk, who labored literally night and day, to master every detail of the
business.

In 1855 Mr. Shepard conceived the idea of starting in business for himself, and formed a co-partnership
which was known to the trade as Shepard, Clark and Brown. It flourished until the panic of
1857 swept over the country. Reverses came, and the house was forced to give up.

In 1862, as I have said, the firm of Lee and Shepard was started in business, with no other
capital save that of brain and muscle. The two partners had long and favorably known one another.
While strangely dissimilar in tastes, they yet exhibited many points in common. At the start,
both were financially poor men; they possessed no funds, but, by virtue of their well known
integrity and ability to succeed, could readily command the little which they required to begin
life anew. Mr. Shepard, as well as Mr. Lee, had made himself indispensable to every firm with
which he had been connected. Each had a wide circle of friends, and each was trusted by his
friends. Both men had been generous in prosperity, and their good deeds, though known only
to their intimate friends and the objects of their benevolence, were not trumpeted for worldly
admiration. Both enjoyed a wide acquaintanceship with authors, and with books, with dealers,
and with the public, and both had strong likes and dislikes, which made them as radical in
politics as they were in personal affairs. In the firm, each has always had his own duties
to perform, on the wise plan of a fitting division of labor. Yet while each partner seems exclusively
to occupy his own field, independent of and unrestricted by the other, it rarely happens that
there are any cross-purposes between them. The wheels of progress move on with unswerving and
unerring progress; the law of compensation which is dominant in the establishment is always
working aright.

Strangers who are for the first time brought in contract with these men, whether socially or
on matters of business, invariably detect the strong points of conservatism which each exhibits.
Mr. Lee gives one the impression of being a well-read man, as, in fact, he is. The faculty
which he possesses of curiously gleaning the salient bits of knowledge out of current thought
and expression, is something remarkable. The by-paths of literature are peculiarly his stamping-ground;
and yet, upon almost every subject of important character, he will chat for hours intelligently
and interestingly.

Mr. Shepard shows many of the same qualities. His brain is exceedingly fertile of ideas, his
memory perfectly marvelous, his language pointed, easy-flowing and abounding in wit and humor.
He exhibits singular quickness at repartee; he is fond of a joke, and will give and take with
the keenest sense of enjoyment. His familiarity with standard literature serves him many a
good turn; he makes it a duty to read thoroughly or to "dip into" every new book that is talked
about. He fortifies himself, whether for daily life or for social intercourse, with all the
intellectual weapons, so to speak, that can ever be called into play. Still, he moves along
the pathway of life thoroughly without affectation; a "liberal education" seems to have been
his by inheritance, and he can make better use of it than most college men with whom he is
brought in contact.

It is as impossible for Mr. Shepard not to quote poetry as it is for him to fly through the
air and his facility in so doing would alone make him a marked man. His whole soul is full
of poesy, ever restless and exuberant. I am not aware that he ever molded a rhyme, or sung
a measure of song in all his life. And yet so tenacious is his memory, so wonderful his talent
in applying the epigrammatic utterances of the leading writers, both old and new, that a person,
on being made cognizant of the fact, finds himself puzzled. Poetry enters into even the driest
details of Mr. Shepard's business life. The signature to a check is often audibly accompanied
by some melodic couplet. Anywhere and everywhere, and for everything that happens or may happen,
the poetic spice is rarely wanting. Mr. Shepard does not deliberately intend this to be so;
the gift rallies into utterance before he is aware of it, and he can no more suppress it than
he can turn back the roaring waters of Niagara.

Possessed of such qualities as these, Mr. Shepard very easily finds friends and is the centre
of their attraction. Outspoken, sometimes even to bluntness, a bitter hater of duplicity and
meanness, a keen detector of counterfeit character, on the one hand; on the other, warm in
his affections, generous to a fault, faithful to those whom he admires,--such is the man of
whom I write. No one is ever at a loss to discover whether Mr. Shepard is his friend or his enemy.

Mr. Shepard has been intimately connected with the politics of his time. He began as a thorough,
out-and-out abolitionist; during the war he was a stanch Republican, and a firm admirer of
Charles Sumner. When the great Senator forsook his party, Mr. Shepard chose the same course,
and to-day finds him enrolled upon the Democratic side, although, for some years back, he has
taken no active interest in any political movement of the day.

Such, in brief, is Charles A.B. Shepard, a man better known, perhaps, than any other among
the book trade of this country, everywhere popular, and nowhere more truly so than among those
who are brought daily in contact with him and who know him best.

The firm of Lee and Shepard removed from 149 Washington street, in 1873, to a new building,
which, replacing the one which had been destroyed in the great Boston fire, now stands on the
south-east corner of Franklin and Hawley street. In these commodious and sumptuously-fitted
quarters the firm tarried until their removal, in January of the present year, to their new
quarters at No. 10 Milk street, adjoining the "old South." Here they have evidently settled
down to stay, perhaps for the remaining years of their joint business life.

When they started in the "old dye-house" it was simply as booksellers. They owned no stereotyped
plates, and for some weeks had no thought of entering into any business relations with authors.
One day Mr. Shepard chanced to make a social call upon Mr. Samuel C. Perkins, formerly associated
with Phillips, Sampson and Company, who, after their failure, had become possessed of some
stereotype plates. During the conversation Mr. Perkins recalled the fact, and asked Mr. Shepard
to take them off his hands. The wherewithall to purchase was wanting; but Mr. Shepard, conscious
of what he was doing, decided to buy them, giving the firm's notes in payment. These plates
included those of Oliver Optic's "Boat Club Series," in six volumes, and those of the "Riverdale
Stories" in twelve volumes. Mr. Lee approved the transaction, and the firm at once brought
out a new edition of both series. They met with a quick sale; indeed, so wonderful was their
success that the author, who was then a Boston school teacher, was summoned and commissioned
to prepare a series of books for girls. From that time down to the present day, the pen of
"Oliver Optic" has been busily employed in behalf of the American youth. He has produced, besides
the series already named, the "Army and Navy stories," in six volumes; the "Great Western series,"
in six volumes; the "Lake Shore series," in six volumes; the "Onward and Upward series," in
six volumes; the "Starry Flag series," in six volumes; the "Woodville Stories," and the "Yacht
Club series," each in six volumes; and two series of six volumes each, entitled "Young America
abroad." Hundreds of thousands of copies have been sold of these books, and the demand for
them to-day is almost as large as it was ten or fifteen years ago. It is no exaggeration to
say that there is scarcely a young man or woman now living who has not read and profitted by
one or more of Oliver Optic's stories.

Among the other successful writers whom Lee and Shepard brought into notice was Miss Rebecca
S. Clark, known the world over by her pseudonym of "Sophie May." Her first book was "Little
Prudy," which achieved a reputation not surpassed by that of Miss Alcott's "Little Women."
This first volume was rapidly succeeded by others by the same author, which in turn won favor,
and are now grouped in the catalogue in series, namely: "Little Prudy Series," "Little Prudy's
Flyaway Series," "Dotty Dimple Series," and "Flaxie Frizzle Stories," each comprising six volumes.

Such a verdict, from so exalted authority, has had its effect. The demand for Sophie May's
books has been almost unprecedented. Inspired by her success in this line the author has also
written several volumes for older readers, and they, too, have proved successful.

Another author, who has held a prominent place in the firm's catalogue, is Mr. George M. Baker.
Although he has done much for the entertainment of the young people in the line of story-telling,
his greatest success has been found in his series of amateur dramatic books, which have long
ago become standard. I would not undertake to mention how many "plays" he has written; but
to simply read the "mail orders" for such literature or watch customers as they come and go
from "headquarters," would incline everybody to believe that he had produced about all that
are ever needed.

Lee and Shepard's catalogue embraces the names of a great many authors, to even enumerate which
would require much space in this magazine. Among the more prominent I will call to mind the
Rev. Asa Bullard, Professor James De Mille, Miss Amanda M. Douglass, who has written some of
the best stories in American literature for older readers; the Rev. Elijah Kellogg, the author
of many bright and wholesome stories for youth; Mr. J.T. Trowbridge, who is known everywhere;
the "Rev. Petroleum V. Nasby," whom President Lincoln termed the third power in crushing the
rebellion; Charles Sumner, the edition of whose works, published by this house, was thought
worthy of award at the Philadelphia exhibition; Francis H. Underwood, who first suggested the
"Atlantic Monthly" magazine, and is one of the most genial and scholarly of American writers;
Colonel T.W. Higginson, who has produced a number of pleasant books, and is the author of the
most popular school History of the United States ever written; B.P. Shillaber (Mrs. Partington),
and a host of other names, which the lack of space forbids me to mention.

In the making of books Lee and Shepard have shown an originality, which has always been noticeable.
In more ways than one, they have been pioneers, and have set examples, which other firms have
closely imitated and followed. It was this house which first conceived the idea of publishing
serially favorite songs and poems in elegantly illustrated form,--an idea which was at once
taken up by nearly every other publishing house in the country. These were issued in cloth
binding, and, two years ago, in the now famous "Golden Floral" style. In their new dress these
books have proved to be the most popular of their kind ever sold on this continent.

The house has also produced other illustrated books, of artistic excellence. Among these Miss
Jerome's "One Year's Sketch Book" has been declared to be without a rival, in its own field,
while Miss Miner's "Orchids" must needs be seen to be appreciated.

But I have reached the limits placed upon this article. I have omitted to speak of many things
of which I should like to say something. But the warp and woof of the story are here given,
and the reader will easily discover therefrom that no secrets underly the firm of Lee and Shepard
save,--industry at home, and integrity in all their dealings with the public.

HON. RODNEY WALLACE.

BY REV. S. LEROY BLAKE, D.D.

[Pastor of the Calvinistic Congregational Church, Fitchburg.]

This is not a biography, it is a sketch; possibly I might say it is an outline. At any rate
the life of our subject can not be written till other chapters are added, and the end comes.
May it be long delayed.

The intense culmination of forces in the busy period of a man's life renders it fruitful in
material for a sketch. What a successful man, of marked force of character, has done, may be
an incentive and an encouragement to others. Perhaps this was Longfellow's chief thought when
he penned the "Psalm of Life:"

  Lives of great men all remind us
  We can make our lives sublime.

The lives of great men, and conspicuously that of the subject of this sketch, prove that, in
this country, a boy need not be born with a silver spoon in his mouth, nor with a brilliant
speech on his lips, to reach eminent success, and be held in high honor; but that the noblest
results of a life of industry and frugality, and the highest honors any worthy ambition can
crave, are within reach of the boy who has energy, courage, integrity of purpose, and purity
of character. By their native energy some of the most conspicuous men of our time have made
their way against obstacles which would have been too much for less sturdy wills. Whatever
deficiencies there may have been in their early training were largely atoned for by native
energy and force of character. Because this is all true of the subject of this paper, we tell
the story in the hope that some other struggling boy may take courage from his example.

HIS START IN LIFE.

Rodney Wallace was born in New Ipswich, New Hampshire, December 21, 1823, and is therefore
in the full vigor of manhood. We may infer that his boyhood was not blessed with the advantages
which usually crown the early life of so many lads, and strew their path with roses, from the
fact that at the age of twelve he left home to work on a farm for wages, with agreement for
limited opportunities for schooling. He is a son of David and Roxanna Wallace.

It seems likely that the family is of Scotch origin. David Wallace seemed to think so, since
he dropped the spelling Wallis, and adopted the form in which the name is now written. In 1639,
Robert Wallis was living in Ipswich, Massachusetts. Benoni Wallis, of this family, removed
to Lunenburg and there married Rebecca Morse, of Lynn, July 2, 1755. She died in Lunenburg
August 25, 1790, and he died March 15, 1792. David, son of Benoni and Rebecca Wallis, was born
October 16, 1760. He married Susannah Lowe, and lived in Ashburnham where he died January 14,
1842. David, son of David and Susannah Wallis, was born at Ashburnham July 14, 1797. He married
July 8, 1821, Roxanna Gower of New Ipswich, where he lived till he removed to Rindge, New Hampshire,
in 1846. He died at Rindge, May 29, 1857; and his wife died at Fitchburg, February 27, 1876.
He was the first of his family in this country to adopt the spelling Wallace, instead of Wallis.
He had eight children, of whom the subject of this sketch was the second.

As we have said, at the age of twelve, when most lads are comfortably cared for at home, young
Wallace started out in life for himself. He let himself to a farmer for forty dollars for the
first year, with the privilege of attending school eight weeks in the winter. It turns out
that the first forty dollars he earned were the beginning of a large fortune, without a dishonest
dollar in it, and that the eight weeks of schooling of that winter on the farm, was the beginning
of a knowledge, gleaned here and there as opportunity offered, which fits him for prominent
positions of trust and responsibility.

At an early age, sixteen I think, he was charged with the responsibility of driving freight
teams from Rindge to Boston, returning with loads of merchandise. In the discharge of this
trust he displayed the energy, tact, and trustworthiness which were prophecies of the man.
He was taking his first lessons in the school of business, and proved himself an apt scholar.

Dr. Stephen Jewett was a somewhat notable physician of Rindge. His fame in the cure of chronic
and acute diseases was wide spread. He was frequently called upon to make professional visits
in Boston and other New England cities and towns. His medicines attained a wide celebrity.
Their manufacture and sale became a large and lucrative business, and was carried on after
the death of Dr. Jewett, by his son, Stephen Jewett, Jr. The energy which young Wallace had
already shown induced Mr. Jewett to put the whole business of selling these medicines into
his hands. He entered into this employment in 1843, at the age of twenty, and continued in
it till he came to Fitchburg in 1853. In selling these medicines he travelled over five of
the New England States. He said to the writer that this was a good school in geography for
him, for he became acquainted with the topography of these states, and the location of all
their important places.

Such were the beginnings of a business career of great prosperity. It was in these ways that
he got his start in life, and in these lesser employments he proved himself worthy of and equal
to the greater tasks yet before him. Here he showed the same judgment and far-sighted wisdom,
which have marked his career in the larger, more conspicuous circles of the business world,
and won him a name which is everywhere repeated with respect, and a reputation for integrity
and honest dealing which any man might covet.

HIS BUSINESS LIFE.

In 1853 Mr. Wallace came to Fitchburg and entered upon that period which, for convenience,
I have named his business life. He formed a co-partnership with Stephen Shepley, known as Shepley
and Wallace. They were wholesale dealers in books, stationery, paper-stock, and cotton-waste.
This firm continued under the name of Shepley and Wallace, and R. Wallace and Co. till July
1, 1865. On this day the firm dissolved, and the business was divided. Mr. Wallace took the
department of paper-stock and cotton-waste, which he still carries on. To what proportions
it has grown, under his management, may be judged from the fact that the business done amounts
at least to $200,000 a year.

December 31, 1864, Stephen Shepley, Benjamin Snow, and Rodney Wallace bought the Lyon Paper
Mill and the Kimball Scythe Shops at West Fitchburg, and began the manufacture of paper under
the name of the Fitchburg Paper Company, Stephen E. Denton was taken into the firm as a partner
soon after. He had charge of the business at the mill. In July, 1865, Rodney Wallace and Benjamin
Snow bought the interest of Stephen Shepley; and the Fitchburg Paper Company was then Wallace,
Snow, and Denton. Mr. Denton died in June,1868. January 7, 1869, Mr. Wallace bought the interest
of Benjamin Snow. January 23 of the same year he bought the interest of Mr. Denton's estate
of his widow, who was at that time residing in New York. From that date till the present the
Fitchburg Paper Company is Rodney Wallace. He retains the old firm name.

Since becoming sole owner, he has added largely to the original property. A neat village of
dwellings has grown up around his mills, which deserves a name of its own. Wallaceville would
be an appropriate name. He has put in a substantial stone dam at great expense. In 1878 he
erected a new brick mill, with all the modern improvements, doubling the capacity of the establishment.
It is now capable of producing from 15,000 to 18,000 pounds of paper every twenty-four hours.
Just across the Nashua River is the Fitchburg Railroad. He has a freight station of his own,
where he receives all his freight and ships all his paper.

Mr. Wallace has conducted his business with rare sagacity, with unblemished integrity, and
with an eye to the welfare of his employees, as well as to his own personal interests. If it
were not like praising a man to his face, since he still lives, many instances might be cited
to prove that it has not been his policy to get the most out of his employees for the least
possible return. But it is enough to say that he has no difficulty in keeping men in his employ.
Somehow he has hit upon a plan by which he has kept the irrepressible conflict between capital
and labor at a distance.

Aside from his own business, which makes large drafts upon his time, strength, and thought,
he has been closely identified with numerous other corporate and monetary interests. He has
thus had a large share in contributing to the growth and prosperity of the enterprising city
in which he lives. Its business interests, to a large degree, have enjoyed his wisdom, and
profited by his sagacity. Since 1864 he has been President and Director of the Fitchburg Gas
Company; a Director of Putnam Machine Company since the same year; a Director of the Fitchburg
National Bank since 1866; a partner in the Fitchburg Woolen Mills since 1877; a Trustee of
Smith College since 1878. He is a Director of the Fitchburg Mutual Fire Insurance Company;
a Trustee of the Fitchburg Savings Bank; a Director of the Fitchburg Railroad; a partner of
the Parkhill Manufacturing Company. Besides these, he has had the settlement of large and important
estates, demanding time, good judgment, and unbending integrity. We would especially note the
large estate of the late Ephraim Murdock, Jr., of Winchendon, and that of the late Hon. Wm.
H. Vose of Fitchburg. These facts speak for themselves, and show the esteem in which Mr. Wallace
is held by his fellow citizens, as a wise counsellor, and as a man of integrity and uprightness
of character, as well as of rare good judgment in all matters pertaining to the transaction
of business. Another says, "In whatever enterprise Mr. Wallace has been engaged, he has not
only been fortunate in its pecuniary interests, but also in the speedy command of the confidence
and respect of his associates. True moral principles have been united with unquestioned probity,
business tact, and liberal, intelligent management." He has won a large fortune, without parting
with his honesty in earning a single dollar. As his property has increased, his generous spirit
has seen larger opportunities and at once embraced them. He has not been among those who withhold
more than is meet and tend to poverty. Property in such hands is not a grinding monopoly, but
a wide blessing. Such men can afford to be wealthy. They represent the true socialistic spirit,
which is, that private capital should be held as a public good.

Largely through the influence of Mr. Wallace various improvements have been made in Fitchburg,
which contribute to its attractiveness. The business of the city is in no small degree indebted
to him for facilities with which communication can be had with the world outside. Prominent
mention may be made of the beautiful Union Railway station at Fitchburg in securing whose erection,
and in planning which, Mr. Wallace was largely instrumental.

MR. WALLACE IN POLITICS.

Mr. Wallace has had no ambitious longings for political life. And yet his fellow citizens would
not be likely to let such a man remain wholly out of public life. So it is true to say that
whatever office Mr. Wallace has held, has sought him. He was selectman of the town during the
years 1864, 1865, and 1867. In 1873 he was representative to the Genral Court, to which office
he was elected in the fall of 1872 by nearly every ballot cast. He was re-nominated the next
year without dissent or opposition, but declined a re-election on account of ill health. While
a member of the Legislature he was on the Committee on Manufactures, a position which his ability
and experience fitted him to fill.

The most conspicuous political office he has held is that of Councillor. While holding that
position he represented one of the largest and most important districts of the State. In it
are included the thriving city of Worcester and the sister city of Fitchburg, which, with their
varied industries, needed a man of large and ripe judgment to represent them. He served three
terms, during the years 1880, 1881, and 1882, or throughout the entire administration of Governor
Long. His election was so entirely unanimous that for the last two years he had no competitor
in the field, Democrats as well as Republicans supporting him. While on the Council he was
a member of the following important committees: on Pardons, on Harbors and Public Lands, on
Military Affairs, and on Warrants.

At the close of Governor Long's administration he refused to allow furthur use of his name
for the office he had so ably filled for three years. He celebrated his retirement from this
position as a servant of the public by a brilliant reception tendered to Governor Long in the
City Hall, Fitchburg, December 7, 1882. He thus gave his fellow citizens and constituents an
opportunity to look Massachusett's popular Governor in the face and take him by the hand.

The following account of the reception, appeared in the Fitchburg Sentinel of Friday, December
8, which I quote:

    "The reception tendered to Governor Long in City Hall, Thursday
    evening, by Councillor Rodney Wallace and wife, was the most
    enjoyable and brilliant entertainment ever given in this city,
    and will be long remembered with pleasure by all who
    participated. The reception was given by Mr. and Mrs. Wallace as
    a compliment to Governor Long, with whom Mr. Wallace has been
    associated as Councilor for three years, and to give their
    friends here an opportunity to spend an evening socially with
    His Excellency. Some 450 cards of invitation were sent out,
    including about 700 persons, and nearly 600 were present on
    Thursday evening. The storm and blizzard-like weather that
    reached this city early in the afternoon prevented the
    attendance of some of Mr. Wallace's business associates from
    abroad. The intention was to give all a pleasant, social
    evening, and the result was a full realization of the pleasure
    anticipated for some days.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Guests were received at the west entrance over which a canopy
    was erected. The steps, hall-ways and stairs were all carpeted.
    The Common Council room was used as a dressing room for the
    ladies, the Aldermen's room for the gentlemen, and the Mayor's
    office was reserved for Governor Long and Councilor Wallace. On
    entering the hall the guests were presented to Councilor
    Wallace, Mrs. Wallace and Governor Long, who stood in the centre
    on the east side--Messrs. Herbert I. Wallace, George R. Wallace,
    Charles E. Ware, Jr., Harris C. Hartwell, James Phillips, Jr.,
    B.D. Dwinnell, Dr. E.P. Miller and M.L. Gate officiating as
    ushers. After the greetings the time was spent socially,
    listening to the excellent music furnished by Russell's
    Orchestra, fourteen pieces stationed on the stage, and many
    enjoyed dancing from 10.30 till about 1 o'clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Among the distinguished guests were the following from out of
    town: Councilor Joseph Davis and wife of Lynn, Councilor Matthew
    W. Cushing of Middleboro, Councilor Nathaniel Wales of
    Stoughton, Councilor Rufus D. Woods of Enfield,
    Congressman-elect William Whiting of Holyoke, Councilor-elect
    Eben A. Hall of the Greenfield Gazette and Courier, Secretary of
    State Henry B. Peirce of Abington, Rev. E.A. Horton of Boston
    (formerly of Leominster), Mr. and Mrs. Oscar Edwards and Prof.
    Henry M. Tyler and wife (formerly of this city) of Northampton,
    Dr. F.A. Harris, wife and Miss Gage, Mrs. Glover (Governor
    Long's mother-in-law), William B. Wood and wife, Superintendent
    John Adams (of the Fitchburg Railroad) and wife, Mr. and Mrs.
    Charles H. Shepley, all of Boston; N.D. White and Mr. and Mrs.
    Joseph M. White of Winchendon, John S. Baldwin of the Worcester
    Spy, J.B. Hall of the Worcester Gazette, Mr. and Mrs. Charles H.
    Merriam and daughter of Leominster.

    An attempt to describe the hall as it appeared on this occasion
    cannot be otherwise than unsatisfactory. To appreciate the
    brilliant scene one must see not only the gay decorations and
    the beautiful flowers and plants, but also the happy people and
    the elegant and tasty dresses of the ladies, in the full light
    of the extra burners placed in the centre of the hall for this
    reception.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The entire floor was carpeted, and the hall was divided into two
    sections--reception room and dining room--by pink and white
    bunting. The walls of the entire hall were decorated with
    draperies, cottons, pink and white buntings, etc., and festooned
    with two thousand yards of laurel and hanging baskets of
    flowers, while a splendid collection of pot plants, orange and
    lemon trees, and growing grapes, from Mr. Wallace's private
    conservatory added much to the grand effect of the designs.

    The most elaborate work was in the front of the stage, at the
    right of the stage and on the right and left centres of the
    hall. Above all, over the stage was a gilt carved eagle
    surmounting the State coat of arms. On either side flags were
    festooned and ornamented with sprays of holly. In the rear of
    the platform were palm trees, while in front dracinas, and
    laurel, with a beautiful orange tree in each corner, each
    bearing nearly twenty oranges. On the right wall of the hall,
    the draperies were surmounted by four medallions representing
    the elements--Air, Earth, Fire, and Water. In the right centre
    was the large painting representing Crete, above which was the
    motto "Amicus inter Amicos." In the foreground was a pedestal
    surmounted by a bust of Ariadne, flanked on each side by growing
    grapes, with two Roman altars burning incense through the entire
    evening.

    On the left centre wall was a large painting representing
    Antium, the home of Nero and Temple of Fortuna, with the Appollo
    Belvidere on a pedestal in the foreground, flanked with two
    standing vases with burning incense. Above the painting was the
    motto "Gaudeamus Igitur," resting on a gilt lyre and torch.
    Medallions representing Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter
    surmounted the draperies on this side of the hall.

    One of the most admired features of the decorations was the
    design on the floor at the right of the stage. A pedestal, some
    ten feet high, was surmounted by a beautiful specimen of the
    American eagle. On either side of the eagle was a perfect flag
    made of natural flowers--violets, carnations and tube
    roses--with a shield of similar flowers in the centre. The
    entire pedestal was banked by pots of growing plants--including
    palms, dracinas, ponisettas in full bloom, etc.

    The dining room was also handsomely decorated with flags,
    draperies and flowers, while the table itself was elegantly laid
    with exquisitely decorated china and silver, and ornamented by
    beautiful bouquets, candelabra, and epergnes. Supper was served
    through the entire evening, guests entering at the right from
    the reception apartment and passing through to the west side of
    the hall."

The completeness of all these arrangements were largely due to the taste and energy of his
son, Mr. Herbert I. Wallace, who had the whole matter in charge.

In 1884 Mr. Wallace was chosen delegate from this district to the Republican Convention held
at Chicago in June, which resulted in the nomination of James G. Blaine and John A. Logan.
Like most of the delegates from Massachusetts, Mr. Wallace was in favor of Senator Edmunds
of Vermont. But when he saw that Mr. Blaine's nomination was inevitable, he joined in making
it unanimous. He did not go with those who bolted the nomination, because it was not his first
choice, but he supported it with his purse, his voice, and his vote, as appears from the following
synopsis of a brief address which he made at a ratification meeting, held in the City Hall,
Fitchburg, July 11, 1884, which I clip from the Fitchburg Sentinel of the next day:

    "Ex-Mayor Merriam, Chairman of the committee, called the meeting
    to order, and said the audience had assembled to hear the report
    of the two delegates to the Republican national convention. The
    Chairman then introduced Rodney Wallace, who was most heartily
    applauded as he arose to speak.

    Mr. Wallace, who was one of the delegates from this district to
    the Republican convention, said his first choice for President
    was the able statesman from Vermont, Senator Edmunds, and his
    second choice was President Arthur, who has given us such an
    excellent administration. The Massachusetts delegation, almost
    without exception, worked hard to secure the nomination for Mr.
    Edmunds, but it was impossible for that convention to nominate
    anybody but James G. Blaine. Nobody can describe the enthusiasm
    through the entire convention for Blaine. The California
    delegation bore a banner inscribed "From Maine to California,
    through Iowa, all for Blaine," and, in my opinion now, Mr.
    Elaine is the strongest man in the Republican party. When the
    motion was made to make the nomination unanimous, not a voice
    was raised against it. I believe he will be elected in November
    and will give us a strong and safe administration."

The writer does not know whether Mr. Wallace considers his political life ended. He certainly
has no longing, desires, and ambitions in the direction of public office. It is equally certain
that any office which he will consent to hold, and which the people who know him can give,
he can have without opposition.

MR. WALLACE AS A CITIZEN.

I come now to a part of my story which it is exceedingly pleasant to relate and of which I
am able to speak, to no little extent, from personal knowledge. It is, after all, what one
is as a man among men, which speaks most for his honor, or his dishonor. What greater significance
generous deeds have, when you know that behind them is no calculating, grasping spirit, which
is figuring out how much it can get in return, but a noble, generous, self-forgetful manhood.
We have a conviction that the conflict between labor and capital, which just now has reached
a threatening pitch of violence, might have been avoided if employers had not in so many cases
endeavored to reduce men to mere money-making machines. As a rule strikes do not occur where
laboring men are treated with the consideration due them as free citizens. The freedom of Fitchburg
from strikes is due to the intelligence of the workmen, and the fairness of the employers.
Another says, "nothing does more to destroy the spirit of socialism and communism and to disipate
envy than to see wealthy men devoting a part of their wealth to public uses."

This introduces us to the most conspicuous act by which the subject of our sketch has proved
his public spirit and generosity of purpose as a citizen. I refer to his gift to the city of
Fitchburg of a beautiful public library, which, by vote of the city government, is to be called
by his name. This act of beneficence reaches farther than appears to a casual observer. It
secures to the city, for all coming time, a "Peoples' College," where the child of the poorest,
as well as of the richest, the toiler as well as the man of leisure, may get a very important
education. This building is to be devoted to art as well as to literature, and we look to see
it exert a refining and cultivating, as well as an educating influence over the rising generations
of our city. Its very presence, in a most conspicuous position, in the very heart of the city,
will be educational. It will prove itself a most valuable adjunct to the excellent course of
instruction given in our public schools.

For some years it had been in Mr. Wallace's mind to do something of this sort. In 1881 he purchased
what was known as the Ruggles property, opposite Monument Park. In the spring of 1884, when
he left for his annual tour in the South, he placed in the hands of Judge Ware, Chairman of
the Trustees of the Public Library, a genuine surprise to his fellow citizens. I clip from
the Fitchburg Sentinel of March 26, 1884, the following account of the matter:

    "Both branches of the City Council met on Tuesday evening and
    transacted the following business:

    The principal business was

    IN JOINT CONVENTION.

    Major Davis presided and announced that Judge T.K. Ware,
    Chairman of the Trustees of the Public Library, had a
    communication to present to the City Council.

    Judge Ware said that he appeared before the Council at the
    request of Honorable Rodney Wallace, who, previous to his
    departure for the South, left with him the following
    communication which gave him pleasure and gratification to be
    able to present to the City Council:

    To His Honor, the Mayor and the City Council of the City of
    Fitchburg;

    GENTLEMEN:--The subscriber has felt for a long time that a
    building with proper appurtenances for our Public Library here
    in Fitchburg was much needed, and makes the following
    proposition, viz:

    I propose to convey by proper deed to the city of Fitchburg my
    lot of land situated at the corner of Main street and Newton
    place, and to expend, with the advice and approval of the
    Trustees of the Public Library, within the next two years, a sum
    not less than forty thousand dollars ($40,000) in erecting a
    building on said lot; said building to be under the care and
    management of the Board of Trustees of the Public Library for
    the time being, and to be used for a Free Public Library,
    Reading Rooms and Art Gallery, and for no other purpose.

    And it is understood that the city government, accepting these
    donations for the above purposes, shall assume and bear the
    current expenses of said building, grounds and appurtenances,
    after the Library building shall have been completed and
    furnished.

    If the above proposition is accepted I shall proceed to carry
    out the same as soon as it can conveniently be done.

    RODNEY WALLACE.
    FITCHBURG, March 17, 1884.

    Mayor Davis said this act on the part of our esteemed fellow
    citizen calls forth the profound gratitude of all the
    inhabitants of our city. I cannot allow this opportunity to pass
    without expressing my thanks, as a citizen, for the munificent
    gift. May his life be long and his prosperity increasing.

    The following order, introduced by Mayor Davis, was then
    unanimously adopted:

    Ordered, That the City of Fitchburg accept the donation of
    Honorable Rodney Wallace to it of the lot of land on the corner
    of Main street and Newton place, and the Library building to be
    erected by him thereon, upon the conditions and in accordance
    with the terms and provisions contained in his written
    communication and proposal to the Mayor and City Council; and
    places on record its profound appreciation of the public spirit
    and munificence of the donor, and its recognition of the
    incalculable benefits which will result to his fellow citizens
    and their descendants and successors for all time from this
    noble gift.

    Alderman Joel said the surprise was so great and so agreeable
    that words were not at his command to express the thanks he, in
    common with all other members, felt for the munificent gift
    presented by Mr. Wallace. He moved that a committee be appointed
    to prepare and forward a vote of thanks to Honorable Rodney
    Wallace for his gift. The motion was unanimously adopted, and
    Mayor Davis appointed Alderman Joel, Councilmen Flaherty and
    Parkhill as the committee."

    Resolved, That we recognize the fact that a gift of this
    nature will result in incalculable benefits to the community so
    fortunate as to receive it, enlarging and intensifying, as it
    does, all the privileges of acquiring information and securing
    culture which a public library affords; providing in a most
    accessible and useful form the means by which our young people
    and those whose daily toil leaves them little leisure for study,
    may draw to themselves the results of all past experience; and
    rendering both attractive and easy to all classes of our people
    opportunities of turning their thoughts from the sterner
    features of their daily occupations to the amenities of life as
    presented by specimens of artistic and literary merit.

    Resolved, That while sharing in the delight of our citizens in
    view of the valuable gift thus unexpectedly placed at their
    service, we congratulate them even more upon the presence among
    them of men whom Providence has blessed in three-fold
    measure--with hearts abounding in philanthropic instincts, with
    material resources ample for the gratification of such impulses,
    and with that rarer gift than either, the judgment requisite to
    secure for their donations the widest and most permanent range
    of influence.

    Resolved, That we cannot resist the inclination to felicitate
    our honored benefactor upon the deep and abiding joy which must
    be the most adequate reward for this expression of his good will
    toward our city--the joy arising from the knowledge that every
    home within our corporate limits will enter into the enjoyment
    of his gift and that not a few of our youth will be allured from
    scenes of degrading and immoral pleasure by the presence in a
    most convenient location of a beautiful edifice within which are
    at their disposal the graces of art and the riches of
    literature.

    Resolved, That the distinguished giver by this gift, the most
    valuable ever received by this community at one time from a
    single citizen, has "erected a monument more enduring than
    bronze and loftier than the regal structure of the pyramids" in
    the establishment of a lasting sense of gratitude within the
    hearts of his appreciative fellow citizens.

    ALONZO DAVIS,
    JOEL JOEL,
    BERNARD H. FLAHERTY,
    JOHN PARKHILL,
    (Committee)
    FITCHBURG, April 1, 1884."

Although $40,000 is the lowest limit named, it should be said that the cost of the noble pile
will far exceed that sum. It was a generous and princely act for which he will be held in lasting
and greatful memory. He will leave behind him a monument which will forever identify his name
with the intellectual and moral culture of all classes of the citizens of Fitchburg.

On the seventh of April, the Trustees of the Public Library took appropriate action on the
gift of Mr. Wallace. The following account appeared in the Sentinel of April 8:

    "At a meeting of the Trustees of the Public Library, Monday
    evening, the board adopted the following resolution, offered by
    Henry A. Willis, and on motion of Rev. P.J. Garrigan it was
    voted to enter the same on their records, request the daily
    papers of the city to publish the same, and that Rev. P.J.
    Garrigan, Henry A. Willis and L.H. Bradford be appointed a
    committee to present the action of the board to Mr. Wallace:

    Resolved, That we have heard with great satisfaction of the
    proposed gift by Honorable Rodney Wallace of land and a building
    for the use of the Public Library, thus providing for a want
    long felt by the Trustees, viz: facilities for making the
    Library fully available to the people of the city, which it
    never could be in its present confined quarters; that we will
    fully co-operate with the generous donor in any manner desired
    by him in carrying out the details of his proposed undertaking;
    and that we desire here to place upon our records our keen
    appreciation of the generous spirit which has moved him to
    tender this munificent gift."

The new library building fronts on Main street, and looks out upon Monument Park and the beautiful
Court House of North Worcester County. It is of Greek classic style, and is built of Trenton
pressed brick. It has sandstone trimmings. It has a frontage of seventy-four feet on Main street,
and is sixty-five feet deep. The basement is ten feet in height. It is two stories above the
basement. The library floor is sixteen feet high. The second story, which contains the picture
gallery, is ten feet high on the outside, and thirty-two in the centre. The extreme height
is therefore fifty-eight feet. The front of the building is especially imposing. It has a projection
in the centre, twenty-five feet wide and six feet deep, which extends the whole height of the
structure and terminates in a gable, which is surrounded by a decorated pediment. The main
entrance is approached by massive steps of granite, twelve feet wide, flanked by heavy buttresses.
At the top of the steps is the entrance porch, eleven feet wide, six feet deep, and arched
overhead. Polished granite columns with carved capitals on either side support the archway
above. In the belt of sandstone above this arch is cut the legend "Library and Art Building."
Above this belt is a row of windows separated by columns of brick. Above these is a sandstone
belt in which is cut the name of the donor, by vote of the City Government. The title of the
structure is therefore "Wallace Library and Art Building." Above is a row of circular windows
separated by sandstone columns with carved capitals. The hip roof of the building is crowned
by a monitor top, which admits light into the art room below. Over the entrance is to be the
city seal, in antique and Venetian glass. The whole structure is amply lighted by a large number
of windows.

The basement provides for a store-room, a work-room, and reading-room, which opens off Newton
lane. The public will have full access to this room. It will specially accommodate the workingmen.
The late Honorable Wm. H. Vose left $1,000, the income of which is to be used in supplying
suitable papers for this room. There are also in the basement a coal room, and the boiler which
heats the whole building. On entering the building one stands in a large hall, on the right
of which is a reading-room for magazines, and on the left is a large reference room, and a
winding stairway by which the second story is reached. Across the whole rear of the building
is the library room, which is high enough to admit of galleries. Ample provisions are thus
made for all the possible future needs of the city. In the second story is the art gallery.
Around it are five other rooms, which can be devoted to any of the uses such an institution
may require. When completed the inside will be finished in hard woods, and according to modern
ideas of taste and elegance. The art gallery will be a model of its kind.

With a collection of books and of works of art to match the thought of the donor expressed
in the building the library will be a lasting blessing to our city. A gift so timely, and so
well adapted to the needs of a city like Fitchburg, with its population of young people, could
not fail to commend itself, and win the gratitude of every right-minded citizen. Therefore,
any one who will stand in front of this building for an hour, and listen to the remarks made
by those who look up to it as they pass, will readily learn how deep a hold on the esteem of
all classes of the citizens of Fitchburg this generous act has given Mr. Wallace.

Lest my estimate of Mr. Wallace may seem extravagant to those who do not know him, I add the
following from the pen of Professor H.M. Tyler of Smith College, Northampton, formerly Mr.
Wallace's pastor. He writes:--

    "It gives me great pleasure to send a few lines in answer to
    your note, though it would be easy for a critic to say that I
    have long since passed the point where I could give a
    cold-blooded opinion of Mr. Wallace. I can write only from the
    stand-point of warm friendship and cannot be cold in my respect
    and admiration for my friend. Mr. Wallace is pre-eminently a
    business man; to this the chief energy of his life has been
    directed. It seems an impertinence for me to pass judgment upon
    his career, but I have loved to study him in his business
    habits. By his affability, correctness, and fairness in all his
    work he has succeeded marvellously in attaching every one to
    himself. All instinctively gravitate toward him, and never wish
    to break off their association with him. I never knew a man so
    master of his own ways and yet so universally popular. People
    love to be influenced or even controlled by him. His office
    would be the centre of any community in which he should be
    placed. All men love to fasten to him their faith. He has
    everywhere learned to gather friends by showing himself
    friendly. His interest in the people of his own community has
    been shown not merely by his public benefactions. Every one in
    want of help has turned to him, and all have had a patient
    hearing and generous response.

    He has been associated with people of every position and among
    all has been a favorite companion. Everyone has felt at home
    with him. It is rarely true that a man has gained success with
    so thorough a desire that his friends should enjoy what he has
    gathered with him. He is thus remarkable for his prosperity, for
    the use which he is making of his prosperity, for his delight in
    giving pleasure to others, and for the disposition and temper
    which finds its enjoyment in such rational and kindly ways.

    It is not that one never disagrees with Mr. Wallace. He would
    scorn the flattery which yields convictions to attempt to
    please. Even when we differ he is none the less congenial. If I
    have ever had the feeling that in any respect I should like to
    make him over it has generally yielded to the conviction that on
    the whole I could not hope to do better than has been done.
    Among all the men with whom I have come in contact in places of
    business responsibility and honor I do not know another to whom
    I give more unqualified respect and esteem than I do to Mr.
    Wallace. Cordially,

    HENRY M. TYLER."

Mr. Wallace, as has appeared, was for three years associated with Governor Long in the Government
of Massachusetts. In response to a note from me Mr. Long writes as follows:

    "I am glad to know that you are writing a sketch of Mr. Wallace
    for publication. If a good subject will make a good sketch your
    work will be a success. He is one of the men, however, who write
    their own lives, not in the pages of any autobiography, but in
    their conduct and character. I have served with him in public
    life, and sat with him as one of my Councilors in the Executive
    Chamber, and have found him always a fund of practical good
    sense, of excellent judgment, trained by great experience in
    affairs, and of thorough integrity. He is a representative
    Massachusetts man, the builder of his own fortune, equal to the
    enterprise of acquiring wealth and position, and magnanimous in
    their use and enjoyment. But I like best to recall, as I am sure
    do all who know him, his generous friendship, his great public
    spirit, and his good heart, of which I have witnessed many
    proofs. I trust that it may be many years before his life is
    taken in any other way than in such an appreciative and kindly
    sketch as you will write of him.

    Very truly yours,
    JOHN D. LONG."

    WASHINGTON, D.C., February 7, 1885.

December 1, 1853, Mr. Wallace married Sophia Ingalls, daughter of Thomas Ingalls of Rindge,
New Hampshire. She died June 20, 1871, leaving two sons, Herbert I. Wallace and George R. Wallace.
Herbert is a graduate of Harvard in the class of 1877. George studied at the Institute of Technology
in Boston. They are associated with their father in the management of his business. December
28, 1876 Mr. Wallace married Mrs. Sophia F. Bailey of Woodstock, Vermont. Mr. Bailey was a
member of Congress from the district in which Fitchburg is included. Mrs. Wallace is one of
the well-known Billings family of Woodstock. Mr. Wallace lives in a beautiful house on Prospect
street, which is surrounded with beautiful lawns and green-houses which, gratify his taste.
From his front door he can overlook the city and its varied industries in whose development
he has borne so conspicuous a part.

We are near the end of a story which it has been a pleasure to tell. Vastly more could be told.
A volume of incidents could be written. There are precious secrets of every generous and noble
man's life which no pen may profane by giving them publicity. These are the choice treasures
reserved only for those who know him best, and live nearest his heart. But the writer desires,
as Mr. Wallace's pastor, to add the testimony of observation and personal knowledge to the
rare purity and uprightness of character, to the generosity of spirit, to the thoughtful kindness,
and to the deep and reverent regard for spiritual things, of his distinguished parishioner.
As an example of untiring energy, of probity of character, of cleanness of soul, of uprightness
of life, of sincerity of purpose, of firmness of moral principle, he may safely be held up
as a model for young men.

       *       *       *       *       *

FITCHBURG.

BY MRS. CAROLINE A. MASON.[A]

[Footnote A: Mrs. Mason is a resident of Fitchburg. Her home, on Rollstone Street, is shown
in the "Sketch of Fitchburg." Her reputation as a writer of verse is not confined to the State.
She is the author of the words of the familiar ballad "Do They Miss Me at Home?" and has, for
many years, contributed poetry to leading weeklies and magazines.--Ed.]

  Nested among her hills she lies,--
    The city of our love!
  Within her, pleasant homes arise;
  And healthful airs and happy skies
    Float peacefully above.

  A sturdy few, 'mid hopes and fears,
    Her fair foundations set:
  And looking backward now, through years
  Of steady gain, how small appears
    Her old estate!--and yet,

  She dons no autocratic airs,
    In scorn of humbler days,
  But shapes her fortunes and affairs,
  To match the civic wreath she wears
    And justify her bays.

  Honor and Truth her old renown:
    Conservative of both,
  The virtues of the little town
  She holds in legacy, to crown
    The city's larger growth.

  Nor ease nor sloth her strength despoil:
    Her peaceful farmers till,
  With patient thrift, th' outlying soil,
  Her trained mechanics deftly toil,
    Her merchants ply their skill;

  Her ponderous engineries supply
    A thousand waiting needs;
  Her wheels revolve, her shuttles fly,--
  And ever where the prize hangs high,
    Her foot, unfaltering, leads.

  Her sympathies are large and sweet:
    And when, at Freedom's call,
  The war flags waved, the war drums beat,
  She sprang, responsive, to her feet,
    And freely offered all!

  Alert in War, she emulates
    The Arts of Peace, as well:
  Religion, Order, guard her gates;
  Wealth, Culture, Thrift, like happy Fates,
    Her destinies foretell.

  So, through the round of years, she keeps
    Advancing on her Past:
  Her old-time vigor never sleeps,--
  And even as she sows she reaps.
    God bless her to the last!

       *       *       *       *       *

MAJOR GENERAL LEW WALLACE AT SHILOH.

GENERAL U.S. GRANT'S VINDICATION OF GENERAL WALLACE.--THE WALLACE AND GRANT LETTERS AND DOCUMENTS
WITH INTRODUCTORY NOTE.

BY GENERAL HENRY B. CARRINGTON.

[Author of "Battles of the American Revolution."]

It seems common to all great wars that the true version of leading actions is rarely assured
by the immediate reports of commanders. Many causes secure to such reports substantial accuracy,
but the development of details seldom fails to show that justice to subordinates cannot be
done by the simple statement of general plans and general results. There are historians who
still claim that Arnold had no part in the battle of Freeman's Farm, September 19, 1777; and
many other battles of the Revolutionary war lacked clear definition until nearly a century
had passed and the records were supplemented by careful examination of the battle-fields and
a more thorough scrutiny of British, French, and Hessian archives, thereby to correct topographical
data and harmonize conflicting statements.

The case of General Fitz John Porter forcibly illustrates the difficulty of changing public
opinion, once formed, even when supplemental data enforce military recognition of their value.
The Battle of Franklin, which secured to General Thomas the opportunity to fortify Nashville
and ultimately defeat Hood, and the battles of Stone River, Gettysburg, Chicamauga and Monocacy,
are among the actions of the late war in which differences of statement as to positions and
movements have greatly qualified first estimates of the relations which various officers sustained
to those actions.

The battle of Shiloh, or Pittsburg Landing, has been the latest under scrutiny. It is not the
purpose to consider whether the action of the day was influenced by the arrival of Buel's army,
or by the non-arrival of General Lew Wallace's division; nor whether General Wallace did, or
did not, march by scientific methods, when he moved for the nearest firing. Among voluminous
papers touching the civil war are the copies of original papers received from General Wallace
himself, and of present interest. These papers received notice from the Western press at one
time, but seem to demand a more formal record, as essential factors in the better understanding
of the Battle of Shiloh.

The following outline is suggested by these documents:

1st. That the Federal line of battle, early in the morning, stretched out from Pittsburg Landing
nearly to the Purdy Road, with General Sherman's division on the right, within about a mile
of that road.

2nd. That General Wallace's division was at Crump's Landing, not more than five miles from
Pittsburg Landing; it being then uncertain which of the two would be the objective of attack.

3d. That General Grant visited General Wallace at Crump's Landing and ordered him to hold his
command subject to orders, and then steamed onward to Pittsburg Landing.

4th. That before 6 o'clock, A.M., the sound of firing had led General Wallace to put his command
under arms; and he was prepared to move wherever active work should demand, even before he
was ordered to be thus ready.

5th. That he concentrated his brigades, then in three camps, into one mass, at the forks of
the Purdy Road and the road to Pittsburg Landing, so that he might take either road, as orders
should decide.

6th. That he understood the original line of battle and the disposition of its divisions, and
knew that General Sherman held the right.

7th. That the order received by him, before 12 o'clock, M., from Captain Baxter, staff officer
of General Grant, was in writing; and while pronounced verbally, at first, the form it assumed,
when reduced to writing and subsequently delivered to General Wallace, was a direct order to
"unite with the right," and that involved the march on the Purdy Road.

If the verbal order of General Grant to Captain Baxter, to hasten General Wallace's Division
to Pittsburg Landing, was reduced to writing by that officer, after he noticed the early success
of the Union Line, he would have shaped the approach of the fresh division to the best possible
advantage, to join the army, not the precise Landing, if the army was not there; since General
Grant, still being on crutches from a sprained ankle when his horse fell under and upon him,
on the fourth, was compelled to depend largely upon staff-officers for judicious action, in
exigencies which fell under their eyes, and where his riding was greatly limited. There is
full harmony of events, by giving full credit to all the data which seem, at first, to work
conflict.

8th. That the Staff Officer who delivered the order assured General Wallace and his staff that
the Federal line was successful and driving the enemy at every point.

9th. That a movement at that time, toward Pittsburg Landing, would have taken General Wallaces'
Division out of possible contact with the enemy, instead of supporting, and perfecting victory.

10th. That when the Division of General Wallace moved, as it did, within ten minutes after
receipt of the orders, "impatiently waited for," it could see the distant smoke and hear the
roar of battle, and moved directly toward the point of danger by the shortest route, with the
greatest celerity and in harmony with the order received.

11th. That the defeat of the main army, the enforced retirement of Sherman's Division, and,
in fact, the withdrawal of the entire original line, were new conditions, to be considered,
when other Staff Officers notified General Wallace of the same; and then, the addition of his
division to the rallying army, at Pittsburg Landing, seemed to be an important element to the
very safety of that army, except as it could lean upon the divisions of Buel, already within
supporting distance.

12th. That the original advance of General Wallace's Division on the Purdy Road, while thoroughly
suited to the original conditions as they existed when the order was delivered to him, was,
of necessity, useless and dangerous, when he found himself alone and unsupported, and that
the enemy had already swept over the position which he expected to occupy.

13th. That there was no alternative, then, but to pass around the left of the enemy, and rejoin
the army, at such expense of time or labor as the new conditions imposed; and that this was
done, at great pains and with great celerity, without straggling or loss.

14th. That the prominent idea of withdrawing General Wallace's Division from Crump's Landing,
to support the main army in its advance, is to be kept in mind;--whereby, confusion ceases
as to the hour of the day when the order to report at Pittsburg Landing was delivered or became
operative;--thereby, also, reconciling memories with the incidents of the day, with no discredit
to any.

15th. That every theory of supporting an advanced line, from reserves sent forward from the
base, must so bend to facts, that it may be the best thing possible, to strengthen the right
of a successful line, even to overlapping and turning the enemy; and that such a movement has
the emphatic endorsement of standard critics, and marked experience; while a formal movement
to the rear, in order to move to the front and the right, as if on parade, would, under conditions
such as presented to General Wallace, have been, simply, to wear out his men in marching, with
small chance for taking any part in the assumed pursuit of a defeated enemy.

16th. That it is an unsound way of dealing with the facts of history, to gauge the responsibilities
of officers and men, of small experience, by the rules which apply to the same officers and
men after their experience has matured; and that, when the battle of Shiloh took place, and
citizen regiments took part, with very slight knowledge of arms, it was equally true, that
the officers themselves, both regular and volunteer, were proportionately unfamiliar with battle
action on a large scale, and that, as a matter of fact, the Generals and Colonels, for the
most part, had never seen a batallion drill, unless at West Point, much less drilled more than
a company; and their conduct and opinions, in 1861-2, are not to be measured by the ripened
experience of the years succeeding and succeeding years of reflection.

And finally, that the orders, movements, and results of the sixth day of April, 1862, must
be judged by their relations to the passing hours and issues of that day, as practical men
would act under changing conditions, and not by any formal order, which, however appropriate
at one time, would, at any other time, defeat the work in hand. The Rules of Evidence, recognized
by Civil and Military Courts alike, are but expressions of sound judgment of past experience;
and Military Science, so called, has no other basis than that which belongs to the wise use
of means to ends in all applied science and in all human endeavor. Whenever, therefore, the
conduct of a battle is consistent with the conditions, as at the time understood, it is not
exactly just to measure it by the terms of any instructions inconsistent with those conditions;--so
that while an order to march to Pittsburg Landing became necessary upon the retirement of the
original line, it ought not to be technically applied back to a time when that line was supposed
to be sweeping on to victory and only sought fresh strength to mature that victory.

That a general action was precipitated by the Confederate forces under General Albert Sidney
Johnson and was in the nature of a successful surprise of the Union Army, is the fact which
harmonizes the reports of officers of both armies with the incidents of the day, and fairly
distributes responsibility, without reflecting the narrow escape of the Union Army from destruction
upon any single officer or command; especially, where all did so well, and so much is to be
credited to the fall of General Johnson and the interruption of his deliberate plan, first
to surprise, and then sweep on to victory, at whatever cost.

The Documents are as follows:

1st. Letter of Major General Lew Wallace to General U.S. Grant, February 26, 1869.

2nd. Letter of Lieutenant Colonel Ross, A.D.C. to General Wallace, January 25, 1868.

3rd. Letter of General J.A. Strickland to General Wallace, January 24, 1868.

4th. Letter of General G.F. McGinnis to General Wallace, February 20, 1868.

5th. Letter of General Fred. Knefler to General Wallace, February 19, 1868.

6th. Letter of Captain Ad Ware, A.D.C., to General Wallace (without date).

7th. Letter of General John M. Thayer to General Wallace, March 4, 1868.

8th. Letter of General U.S. Grant to General Wallace, March 10, 1868, commenting upon the letters
cited and suggesting their publication, in justice to General Wallace.

General Wallace to General Grant:

    WASHINGTON CITY, Feb. 29, 1868.

    GENERAL:

    About a year after the battle of Pittsburg Landing, it came to
    my knowledge, that I was suffering, in your opinion, from
    erroneous information upon the subject of my conduct and
    movements as commander of the Third Division of your army during
    the first day of the battle named. To place myself right in your
    estimation and in that of the army generally, I asked a Court of
    Inquiry, by letter to the Secretary of War (Mr. Stanton) July
    17, 1863. After several months, during which the application
    received no attention from the Secretary, I withdrew it, by
    advice of friends, General Sherman amongst others. The course I
    then resolved upon, that counselled by General Sherman, was to
    carry my explanation directly to you; and such continued my
    intention until the battle of Monocacy, after which your
    treatment of me became so uniformly kind and considerate that I
    was led to believe the disagreement, connected with Pittsburg
    Landing, forgotten; a result, to which I tacitly assented,
    notwithstanding the record of that battle as you had made it, in
    the form of an endorsement on my official report, was grievously
    against me.

    A recent circumstance, however, has made it essential to my good
    name, which I cannot bring myself to believe you wish to see
    destroyed, to go back to my former purpose; in pursuance of
    which, the object of this letter is simply to introduce certain
    statements of gentlemen lately in the army, your friends as much
    as mine, in hopes that the explanations to be found therein will
    be sufficent to authorize you to give me a note of acquittal
    from blame, plainly enough, to allay the suspicions and charges
    to which I have been so painfully subjected. The statements are
    in the form of extracts pertinent to the subject from letters
    now in my possession, from General Fred Knefler, General George
    McGinnis, Colonel James R. Ross, General Daniel MacCaulay,
    Captain Ad Ware, General John A. Strickland, General John M.
    Thayer, now United States Senator from Nebraska--all, of my
    command, on the day in question, present with me, well known to
    you, and of unimpeachable honor. I could have obtained many
    others, of like import, but selected these because their authors
    had peculiar opportunities for information upon points
    considered of chief importance. It is possible that my
    explanations of the matter would be sufficient for the purpose
    in view. However that may be, it is my judgment now, that the
    charges against me have gone so far, and been put in such grave
    form, that public opinion may require an exoneration, though it
    come from your hand, to be based upon the testimony of others.

    Permit me to say, further, that as to the order you started to
    me by Captain Baxter, I do not understand there is any question
    of veracity between us. You tell me, that from the battle-field
    you dispatched a verbal order by the officer named, to be
    delivered to me, at Crump's Landing, directing me to march my
    division to Pittsburg Landing by the road, parallel with the
    river; and, supposing, as you did, that the order would reach me
    by 11 o'clock, A.M., you reasonably concluded my command would
    be on the field by 1 o'clock, P.M.

    Now in all candor, if you have been, as I am informed, of
    opinion that I received that order as it was given, and at the
    time stated (11 o'clock, A.M.), and that for any reason, such as
    personal feeling against you, or that I lost my way, or took the
    wrong road, or lingered on the march, making but five miles in
    seven hours, it must be admitted that you were justifiable in
    any, even the most extreme judgment against me; and I must
    confess that your moderation was greater than mine would likely
    have been, had our positions been reversed. I do not flinch from
    that conclusion, at all; but what I do say in my defence is that
    the opinion and the conclusion, which is its corollary, are both
    wrong, because the order admitted to have been dispatched was
    not delivered to me, in form or substance, as dispatched. On the
    contrary, the order I received from your messenger was in
    writing, unsigned, and contained substantially the following
    instructions:

    "You will leave a force at Crump's Landing, sufficient to guard
    the public property there; then march the rest of your division,
    and effect a junction with the right of the army; after which
    you will form your line of battle at right angles with the
    river, and act as circumstances dictate."

    This order was read by Colonel Ross, under circumstances well
    calculated to impress it upon his memory. It was also given to
    Colonel Knefler, then my Adjutant General, and by him read and
    unfortunately lost. Finally, its purport, as stated by me above,
    is vouched for by Captain Ware as the aide de camp. To refuse
    credit to my version of its contents will be very hard, indeed,
    corroborated as it is by so many gentlemen of unquestionable
    veracity, and such excellent opportunity for information on the
    point.

    I think myself warranted now in asserting upon the credit of
    the three officers just named, as well as my own, that by the
    terms of the order, as it was delivered to me, the object of my
    march was not Pittsburg Landing, as you intended, but the right
    of the army, resting, when the battle opened in the morning, at
    a point quite three miles out from the landing, on the road to
    Purdy.

    As a general principle it must be admitted that when you
    entrusted the order to a proper messenger for delivery to me,
    your responsibility ceased; but, I turn and ask you, appealing
    to your experience and justice, how am I held responsible for
    the execution of an order if it never reached me; or, if it
    reached me, conveying an idea radically different from that
    originally given? Of necessity, I was accountable for the
    execution of the order, only as it was received, and if it was
    not received in a form to convey your true design, but was
    promptly executed, neither of us are responsible for the result.
    It was not your mistake, nor was it mine.

    Having established the purport, at least, of the order as it
    came to my hand, the next inquiry is: "Did I proceed to execute
    it, and how?"

    On these heads all the letters on file are applicable. They
    show, as I think, that I took measures anticipatory to the order
    you gave me, personally, in your passage up the river to the
    battle-field, viz: to hold myself in readiness to march in any
    direction; that my brigades were ordered to concentrate at the
    place most proper and convenient for a prompt execution of the
    orders, whatever they might be, because it was at the junction
    of two roads, one leading to Pittsburg Landing, the other to the
    right of the army. To one of these points, it may be added, I
    was sure of being ultimately sent, if the exigencies of the
    battle required the presence of my command. They show, that
    after you parted from me, going up the river, I took measures to
    forward your messenger to me instantly upon his arrival (see
    Colonel Ross' letters), then rode to the place of concentration,
    and waited impatiently and anxiously the expected instructions;
    that they came to hand about 12 o'clock (my own remembrance is
    11:30 A.M.), and that the officer who brought them, also brought
    the news that you were driving the enemy all along the line.
    (See letters of General Knefler and Colonel Ross.) Up to that
    time, therefore, I was certainly blameless.

    But let me ask you to stop here, and consider the effect on my
    mind and subsequent movements, of the information, thus reliably
    obtained, that the battle was won. What inducement could I have
    had to march away from or linger on the road to a victory? Upon
    the hypothesis that the good news was true, how could I have
    imagined, (had there been so much as a doubt as to the intent of
    the order received,) a necessity for my command at Pittsburg
    Landing?

    But, proceeding. The letters further establish, that,
    immediately upon receiving the order, I put my column en
    route, to execute it.

    Now comes the questions. Did I take the right road to effect the
    junction with the right of the army, or one leading to Purdy,
    away from the battle? Pertinent to these inquiries, General
    Knefler says, that the road chosen for the movement had been
    patrolled and picketted by my cavalry. By their report, if by
    nothing else, I must have been posted as to its terminus. In
    corroboration of this assertion please notice that General
    Macaulay, General Strickland, General Thayer and General
    Knefler, all allude to the fact that the head of the column was
    approaching, not going away from the firing, when the
    countermarch took place. Consider, further, that the most
    imperative necessities of my situation, isolated as I had been
    from the main army, were, to know all the communications with
    that army, and to keep them clear, and in order for rapid
    movement. Not only did I know the road, but every step my
    division took from the initial point of the march up to the
    moment of the change of direction, was, as is well known to
    every soldier in the column, a step nearer to the firing and
    therefore a step nearer to the battle. While on this inquiry,
    let me add that the report of my being set right after marching
    upon the wrong road has in it this much truth, and no more. When
    about a mile from the position which had been occupied by the
    right of the army (General Sherman's division), Captain Rowley
    overtook me and told me that you had sent him to hurry me up,
    and that our lines had been carried by the enemy and the army
    driven back almost to the river, a very different story from the
    one brought me by Captain Baxter. Captain Rowley set me right as
    to the conditions of the battle, not as to the road I was
    following. Colonel McPherson and Major Rawlins, the other
    members of your staff, mentioned as having been sent to me, met
    me after the countermarch, when my command was on the river road
    moving to Pittsburg Landing.

    Concerning the countermarch, I would remark that the condition
    of the battle, as reported by Captain Rowley, made it prudent,
    if not necessary. My column was only five thousand men, of all
    arms. Reflecting upon it now, I am still of the opinion that it
    did better service the next day in your new line of battle, than
    it could have done, operating alone and unsupported in the rear
    of the whole rebel army, where I was certainly taking it, when
    "set right" by the captain.

    Instead of making the change of direction, when it was resolved
    on, by a countermarch, the result proved that it should have
    been effected by a general right about. The former manoeuvre was
    chosen, however, because I was confident of finding a cross road
    to the river road long before the head of the column doubled
    upon its foot. [See Colonel Ross' statement of the effort made
    to accomplish that idea.]

    One of the results I confidently anticipated from a reading of
    the letter submitted, is, that you will be satisfied of the
    wrong done me (unintentional, I believe), by Colonel Badeau,
    when, in his book, he describes me as consuming seven hours in
    marching five miles in the direction of the battle. The march
    actually performed in that time was not less than fifteen miles,
    over an execrable dirt road.

    Your opinion, as advanced in your letter to the War Office,
    July, 13, 1863, that General Morgan L. Smith, had he been put in
    command, could have had the division in the battle by 1 o'clock
    P.M., is in direct terms, based upon the condition that General
    Smith received your orders as you supposed them communicated to
    me. But, suppose he had not received the order as originally
    given; suppose, on the contrary, the order actually received by
    him had the effect to send him in another direction from
    Pittsburg Landing; and suppose that, on approaching his
    objective, he had found himself in the rear of the whole rebel
    army, and in his judgment compelled, by that circumstance,
    together with the bad fortune of our own army, to a further
    movement of quite ten miles--all of which were terrible
    realities in my case--I am sure you are too just a man to have
    held him accountable for the hours, however precious, thus
    necessarily lost.

    With these remarks I place the letters of the officers named in
    your hands. They will satisfy you, I think, that the exoneration
    I seek will be a simple act of justice. The many misconceptions
    which have been attached to my movements on that bloody Sunday,
    have, it must be confessed, made me extremely sensitive upon the
    subject. You can imagine, therefore, with what anxiety your
    reply will be waited.

    Very respectfully your friend,

    LEW WALLACE.
    To GENERAL U.S. GRANT, WASHINGTON CITY.

Colonel Ross to General Wallace:

    CHICAGO, January, 25, 1868.

    General: Having read the extract from "Badeau's Life of General
    Grant," as published in the Chicago Tribune, of the twenty-fifth
    of December, 1867, wherein he refers particularly to the battle
    of Shiloh, and seeing the gross injustice done you, and the
    false light in which you are placed before the country and the
    world, I deem it my duty to make a brief statement of what I
    know to be the facts in reference to your failure to reach the
    field of battle in time to take part in the action of Sunday,
    April 6, 1862.

    I will first state the position of your command on that morning.
    The First Brigade, Colonel M.L. Smith commanding, at Crump's
    Landing; Second Brigade, Colonel John M. Thayer commanding, two
    and one-half miles out on the Adamsville road; Third Brigade,
    Colonel Charles R. Wood commanding, at Adamsville, five miles
    out from the river. The first intimation you or any of your
    staff had of the battle was between five and six o'clock, A.M.,
    when my attention was called by one of the men on the boat on
    which were your headquarters, to the heavy and continued firing
    in the direction of the camp at Pittsburg Landing. You were at
    once notified of this, and being satisfied that there was a
    battle going on, directed me to go at once and order this
    division to get ready to move at a moment's warning, and to
    instruct Colonel Wood to move his baggage and camp equipage to
    the river with the least possible delay, and march his command
    to the camp of the Second Brigade, midway between his (then)
    camp and that of the First Brigade, at the river.

    After executing your order, as above, I returned to the Landing.
    Soon after, you, together with your staff, went out to the camp
    of the second Brigade, when the division had been ordered to
    concentrate in order to be in position to take either one of two
    roads, intersecting the Adamsville road from Crump's Landing to
    Pittsburg Landing; one leading to Pittsburg Landing, the other
    to the Purdy road from Pittsburg Landing, intersecting it at a
    point not far from the right of our army under General Sherman,
    as it was encamped when the battle began.

    Before starting for Colonel Thayer's camp, orders were given by
    you to Captain Lyman, A.Q.M., on your staff, for a horse to be
    saddled and kept in readiness, in case a messenger should come
    down the river with orders from General Grant to you.

    Now for the order. Badeau says that a staff officer was
    dispatched to General Wallace with verbal orders for him to
    march by the nearest road parallel with the river. The order may
    have been given verbally by General Grant to his staff officer,
    but was not so delivered to you, nor did it direct you to march
    by the nearest road parallel with the river. At about 11
    o'clock, A.M., while at the camp of Colonel Thayer, I was
    directed by you to go to Colonel M.L. Smith. I met Captain
    Baxter, A.Q.M., who stopped me and handed me a paper saying, "I
    wish you would take this to General Wallace." I took the paper,
    read it and returned it to him, saying, I could not do so, as I
    was on my way under orders from General Wallace. At the same
    time I turned in my saddle, and pointed out a group of horsemen,
    telling the Captain that you were among them. I went to Colonel
    Smith, delivered my orders, and returning, met the Captain
    again. Now the
    shortest possible route by which you could reach the point
    designated in the order was the one taken, viz: that one leading
    from Colonel Thayer's camp (on the Adamsville road from Crump's
    Landing), to the Purdy road (from Pittsburg Landing), a distance
    of about five miles; whereas the distance to the point to which
    you was to march as designated in the order, via Pittsburg
    Landing, would have been at least twelve miles. Perhaps I should
    here state that this order was not signed by any one, but coming
    as it did through one of the Staff Officers of the Commanding
    General, could not be questioned. I would also state in this
    connection, that when I met Captain Baxter first, I asked him
    how things were going. He replied that Grant was driving the
    enemy at all points. Had this been the case, the order as
    delivered by Captain Baxter would have been all right, as we
    could then have joined General Sherman as directed therein.
    Within ten minutes after the receipt of the order, the troops
    were on the road.

    When we were about one mile from where we expected to join
    General Sherman, we were overtaken by a messenger from General
    Grant, Captain (since Colonel) Rowley, I believe, who informed
    you that our troops had been defeated all along the line, and
    driven back, till the right was within half a mile of the river,
    and that the road we were on, would, if followed up, lead us
    into the rear of the enemy. This being the case, it became
    necessary to find some other way to form a junction with the
    army. In order to do so, every mounted man attached to your
    Head-Quarters was dispatched to find, if possible, some way to
    get round the enemys' left without going back to the starting
    point, or to find some resident to guide us by the nearest
    possible route. Finally a man was found who was compelled to
    act as guide. Nevertheless the march was continued as rapidly
    as possible, until we joined the right of the army, just after
    dark, in the position in which it lay when the battle closed for
    the day. Badeau also says: "General Wallace was set right by
    Captain (afterwards Colonel) Rowley, and Colonel (afterwards
    Major General) McPherson, both at the time upon General Grant's
    staff; that they set him right at 1 o'clock, and it took him
    till seven to march five miles." It was near 1 o'clock when we
    were overtaken by Rowley, but instead of having but five miles
    to march, the distance could not have been less than eleven or
    twelve miles. The first seen of General McPherson was when we
    were met by him and General Rawlins, just as the head of the
    column had reached the river road (from Crump's Landing to
    Pittsburg Landing) who had come out to urge you to greater
    haste. We had to march over the worst road I ever remember to
    have seen. In many places it was almost impossible to get
    artillery through. In my judgment the entire distance marched by
    your command could not have been less than sixteen or seventeen
    miles.

    The above, General, are the facts relative to the movements of
    your command on the day referred to, which fell under my
    personal observation. I am, General, very respectively, your
    obedient servant,

    JAMES R. ROSS,

    Late Brev. Lieut. Col. Major. A.D.C.
    To MAJOR GENERAL LEW WALLACE
    CRAWFORDSVILLE, Indiana.

General Strickland to General Wallace:

    HEADQUARTERS FIFTIETH REGIMENT, O.V.I.   }
    BIG RUN TRESTLE, Ky., June 24, 1863.     }

    CAPTAIN J.R. Ross, for MAJOR GENERAL LEW WALLACE:

    DEAR SIR: In answer to your question as to my recollection of
    the circumstances and time of the moving of Major General Lew
    Wallace's command to the battle of Shiloh on the sixth of April,
    1862, I will submit the following statement:

    I was Acting Adjutant General for Colonel John M. Thayer (now
    Brigadier General Thayer), he (Colonel Thayer) being in command
    of the Second Brigade, General Lew Wallace's Division. On the
    morning of the sixth of April (Sunday), 1862, the Brigade
    commanded by Colonel Thayer, stationed at "Stony Lonesome," was
    in readiness to march at daylight, or before. We were waiting
    for orders to move, when Major General Lew Wallace and staff
    rode to the headquarters of the brigade, I think between the
    hours of 8 and 9 o'clock; it may have been earlier. General
    Wallace ordered everything in readiness to move at a moment's
    notice. I received the orders directly from General Wallace. I
    assured him that the brigade, upon previous orders from himself
    and Colonel Thayer, was ready to move, but went again, in
    person, by order of Colonel Thayer, and notified Commanders of
    Regiments, Batteries, etc., to be ready at the call from Colonel
    Thayer's headquarters, to move. I heard General Wallace
    addressing himself to Lieutenant Colonel McCord, commanding the
    First Nebraska Regiment, to say, that he had received no orders
    to move and that he was waiting for orders frown General Grant's
    headquarters to move. I heard General Wallace request one of his
    staff to watch the road to Crump's Landing for a messenger with
    orders.

    At half past 11 A.M. (it might have been fifteen minutes to 12)
    a person rode up to General Wallace with orders to move. I was
    standing by General Wallace at the time. The Brigade commanded
    by Colonel Thayer was in motion in just ten minutes after the
    order was received. I am particular about this, because Colonel
    Sanbourn, of the Twenty-first Indiana Regiment, and other
    officers of the Brigade, talked over the matter in the morning.
    After the order was received we moved off rapidly.

    After we had marched some distance, and were getting nearer to
    the sound of musketry continually, we were met, I think, by
    Major Rawlins, Assistant Adjutant General of General Grant, and
    our direction changed. From my knowledge of the country, after
    the battle of Monday, I am satisfied that, if we had not changed
    our direction when we did, we would have gone in behind the left
    of the rebel army. After the direction of the column was
    changed, I was ordered by Colonel Thayer to go to the foot of
    the column, for what purpose I cannot now recollect. I think it
    was at the instance of General Wallace, to change direction on a
    shorter route of Wood's brigade, and when going from the foot of
    the column to the head, to report to my commanding officer,
    Colonel Thayer. I remember noticing all three of the
    Brigades in close column, marching rapidly forward. Just at
    dusk we arrived at the valley of a small stream, where the mud
    was very deep. We met an orderly, there, from the battle-field,
    who said we could reach General Grant's forces by making great
    haste, as Berdan's Sharp-shooters were holding the road by which
    we were to enter. The column was hurried forward as fast as it
    was possible for it to move. We arrived a little after dark, on
    the right of General Grant's forces, but a few yards in front of
    the enemy.

    Not knowing for what particular purpose you wish this
    communication, I have been precise in details as to time, etc.,
    as it will be remembered by most of the officers of the Second
    Brigade.

    I am, sir, your obedient servant,

    J.A. STRICKLAND,
    Colonel Commanding Fiftieth Ohio Volunteer Infantry.

General McGinnis to General Wallace:

    INDIANAPOLIS, Indiana, February 21, 1868.

    GENERAL: In reply to your note of this date, I would say, that
    being in command of the Eleventh Indiana Infantry, I was
    attached to the First Brigade, Third Division, Army of the
    Tennessee, commanded by you, and encamped at Crump's Landing, on
    the morning of the first day of the battle of Pittsburg Landing.

    At daylight of said day, our command was aroused by heavy and
    continuous firing from the direction of Pittsburg Landing, which
    led us to believe that a general battle was being fought. I do
    not think more than twenty minutes had elapsed from the time
    that the battle commenced until our whole brigade had received
    orders to hold ourselves in readiness, (with three days'
    rations) to march to any point required; and that point all
    understood from indications would be Pittsburg Landing.

    For the purpose of concentrating the division, our Brigade
    marched to Winn's Farm, two and a half miles from Crump's
    Landing, where the Second Brigade of the Third Division was then
    encamped. The road taken by our division, after concentrating,
    intersected the Purdy road (from Pittsburg Landing) at a point
    near Snake Creek, and not far from the ground occupied by
    General Sherman's division on the morning of the battle, being
    the right of the army. This, in my opinion, was the shortest
    and most direct route to the point at which the right of the
    army was resting, when the battle began.

    Orders were not received for the division to march to the field
    of battle, until about12 o'clock, A.M. and no time was lost
    during the march, as we moved with the utmost rapidity.

    In the history of that battle, written by (Badeau) who was not
    there and who could not have had personal knowledge of the facts
    in relation thereto, serious and gross injustice has been done
    you.

    Very respectfully,

    G.F. McGinnis,
    Late Brigadier General U.S.A.

[General Fred Knefler's letter to General Lew Wallace corroborating the statements made by
the other members of the staff will be found on page 367--ED.]

Captain Ware to General Wallace:

    GENERAL: I submit the following statement in regard to the
    movement of your division, on Sunday, April 6, 1862, as far as
    came under my observation.

    The first intimation I had that an engagement was progressing
    was about 6 o'clock, A.M. I heard firing in the direction of the
    camps at Pittsburg Landing. Soon after I was ordered by you to
    proceed to Adamsville, where the Third Brigade, under Colonel
    Wood was encamped, with orders to have his tents, and baggage
    train sent immediately to the river, and his command to march
    back to the Second Brigade, which was then stationed two and a
    half miles from Crump's Landing. I also ordered the First
    Brigade, under Colonel Morgan L. Smith, to move out to the same
    point. The Second Brigade, under Colonel John M. Thayer, was
    also ordered to be ready to move at a moment's notice. I
    returned to your headquarters and with you proceeded to the
    above-mentioned point. At twenty minutes of 12 an order was to
    you delivered, by Captain Baxter, A.Q.M., directing "you to move
    your division up and join General Shermans' right," on the road
    leading from Pittsburg Landing to Purdy, that being the extreme
    right of General Grant's position.

    Two Regiments of Infantry and one piece of artillery were left
    at the camp of the Second Brigade, to protect the camp equipage
    and baggage. I am, General, very respectfully,

    Your obedient servant,

    AD WARE, JR., A.D.C.

    To MAJOR GENERAL LEW WALLACE.

General John M. Thayer to General Wallace:

    UNITED STATES SENATE CHAMBER,

    WASHINGTON. March 4. 1868.

    At the time of the battle of Pittsburg Landing I was in command
    of the Second Brigade of the division commanded by General Lew
    Wallace, and, with the Brigade, was in camp two and a half miles
    out from Crump's Landing, at a place called Stony Lonesome. At
    dawn of the morning of April 6, 1862, I heard cannonading in the
    direction of Pittsburg Landing. At an early hour I received
    orders from General Wallace, through a Staff Officer, to "hold
    my command in readiness to march at a moment's notice." General
    Wallace came to my camp, soon afterwards, and informed me that
    he was awaiting orders from General Grant to move to the
    battle-field. I knew he was very impatient to receive such
    orders. The Division was kept in readiness to move without
    delay. At about half past 11 o'clock an officer rode up to
    General Wallace with the expected order from General Grant, and,
    in a few minutes, the command was on the march towards the field
    of action. As we advanced the cannonading became more distinct.
    As we were moving on I recollect a Staff Officer passing up the
    column seeking General Wallace. Very soon we countermarched,
    with the view, as I understood, of crossing to the river road
    leading to Pittsburg Landing, and there reaching the right of
    our army, which we reached about dark. According to my
    recollection there was no halting while on the march, except to
    close up the column.

    While waiting in my camp for the order of General Grant to move
    to the scene of action General Wallace manifested great anxiety
    to move forward, and did move immediately on receipt of the
    order. Very respectfully,

    JOHN M. THAYER,

    Late Brig. Gen'l and B'v't Maj Gen'l of Vols.

General Grant to General Wallace:

    HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES.

    WASHINGTON, D.C., MARCH, 10, 1868.

    MY DEAR GENERAL:

    Enclosed herewith, I return your letters from officers of the
    Army who served with you at the battle of Shiloh, Tennessee,
    giving their statement of your action on that occasion. I can
    only state that my orders to you were given verbally to a Staff
    Officer to communicate, and that they were substantially as
    given by General Badeau in his book. I always understood that
    the Staff Officer referred to, Captain Baxter, made a memorandum
    of the order he received and left it with you. That memorandum I
    never saw.

    The statements which I now return seem to exonerate you from
    this great point of blame, your taking the wrong road, or
    different road from the one directed from Crump's Landing to
    Pittsburg Landing. All your subsequent military career showed
    you active and ready in the execution of every order you
    received. Your promptness in moving from Baltimore to Monocacy,
    Maryland, in 1864, and meeting the enemy in force far superior
    to your own, when Washington was threatened, is a case
    particularly in point, where you could scarcely have hoped for a
    victory; but you delayed the enemy, and enabled me to get troops
    from City Point, Virginia, in time to save the city. That act I
    regarded as most praiseworthy. I refer you to my report of 1865,
    touching your course there.

    In view of the assaults made upon you now, I think it due to
    you, that you should publish what your own Staff and other
    subordinate officers have to say in exoneration of your course.

    Yours Truly,

    U.S. GRANT, GENERAL.
    To MAJOR GENERAL L. WALLACE,
    CRAWFORDSVILLE, Indiana.

       *       *       *       *       *

FITCHBURG IN 1885.

BY ATHERTON P. MASON, M.D.

In the January number of this magazine appeared an excellent and comprehensive historical sketch
of Fitchburg. It is proposed in this article to portray as briefly as possible, and by the
aid of engravings, the present condition and resources of our city.

Old Rollstone and its opposite neighbor, Pearl Hill, have witnessed the transformation of a
rude, inhospitable wilderness into a beautiful and busy city. We of the present day, proud
of our heritage, are striving to improve it by all means within our power.

Fitchburg owes her growth and prosperity pre-eminently to those energetic and plucky men who
founded and fostered the great industries which now constitute her life and soul. Alvah Crocker,
Salmon W. Putnam, Eugene T. Miles, and Walter Heywood, have left behind them great and lasting
proofs of their toil and perseverance. Of Rodney Wallace, who is now in the midst of a useful
and benevolent life among us, another will speak more fully and fittingly in other pages of
this magazine; nor would we neglect to give due credit to the energetic men who are now either
carrying on business established by their predecessors, or founding new industries which enhance
the resources and good name of Fitchburg.

The little river (the north branch of the Nashua) which runs through the township, and which
is formed by the confluence of several large brooks in the westerly part of the town, first
invited the manufacturer to locate on its banks. Its water-power is still used, but steam is
now the chief motor that propels the machinery, looms and spindles that daily pour forth products
which go to the markets, not of this country alone, but of the world.

Perhaps no place of its size can boast of a greater diversity of industries than Fitchburg.
In such an article as this attention must necessarily be confined to the chief among them,
and but few words devoted to the description of separate establishments.

Machinery takes the first rank among the manufactures of Fitchburg. The pioneers in this business
here were two brothers, Salmon W. and John Putnam, who, in 1838, established the firm of J.
& S.W. Putnam. In 1858 S.W. Putnam organized the Putnam Machine Company, which now has a wide
and enviable reputation. Mr. Putnam was President and General Business Manager of the company
until his death in 1872. Two of his surviving sons are now actively engaged in carrying on
the business, Charles F. Putnam being President and Manager, and Henry O. Putnam Superintendent
of the department in which special machinists' and railroad tools are made. There are six other
departments devoted to special kinds of manufacture which are superintended by able men. Mr.
Putnam's two other sons founded, in 1882, the Putnam Tool Company, located on Walnut street,
of which Salmon W. Putnam is President, and George E. Putnam Treasurer, and is owned entirely
by the Putnams. This company manufactures machinery, railroad and machine tools. The present
location of the Putnam Machine Company, corner of Main and Putnam streets, comprising over
twenty-six acres, was purchased in 1866, and the buildings were immediately erected at a cost
of over $200,000. The works were built from plans designed by the late President, and are arranged
with special reference to the variety of machines manufactured, consisting of railroad and
machinists' tools, steam-engines, water-wheels, and shafting. They comprise machine shops,
foundries and forges, and rank with the oldest and largest establishments of the kind in the
United States.

The Putnams are descendants of Gen. Israel Putnam of Revolutionary fame.

The Fitchburg Machine Works occupy a large and convenient brick building on Main street, near
its beginning, and manufacture machinists' tools principally. Opposite is the handsome brick
building occupied by C.H. Brown and Company, manufacturers of the "Brown" automatic cut-off
steam-engines, which have gained a wide reputation. A little further up on Main street is located
the Simonds Manufacturing Company. This company was organized in 1868 with a capital of $150,000
and manufactures machine knives and the well-known "Simonds" Circular Saw.

On Water street are three machine shops to be noticed. The Union Machine Company makes paper
machinery. The Rollstone Machine Company, manufactures the "Rollstone" Lathe and other wood-working
machinery. The Fitchburg Steam Engine Company, whose business was established in 1871, manufactures
steam-engines and boilers, making a specialty of the "Fitchburg" steam-engine, the great merits
of which are everywhere acknowledged. The company, notwithstanding its comparatively recent
organization, has a firm foothold in this country, and abroad also.

D.M. Dillon manufactures boilers and paper machinery. A.D. Waymouth and Company, and C.W. Wilder
manufacture respectively the Waymouth wood-turning lathe and Wilder's patent lathe.

In 1866 Charles Burleigh of Fitchburg invented the Burleigh rock drill, and the next year the
Burleigh Rock Drill Company was organized with a capital of $150,000, to make and sell this
machine and the Burleigh Patent air-compressor. These drills have completely revolutionized
the business of rock-tunneling. They were first used in the Hoosac Tunnel and, proved highly
successful. Since then they have been employed at Hell Gate, in the Sutro Tunnel, and at various
points in Europe.

The Rollstone Iron Foundry, the Fitchburg Iron Foundry, and M.J. Perault, manufacture castings
of all kinds. W.A. Hardy operates a brass Foundry on Water street. There is no space to indulge
further in details regarding machinery. In addition to the above are numerous individuals and
firms here engaged in the manufacture of mowing machines and agricultural implements, boiler
makers' tools, electric machinery and apparatus, files, grist and flouring-mill machinery,
hay, straw, and machine, knives, wood-working machinery, machinists' tools, water motors, watch
tools, paper machinery and the like.

The paper manufacturing interest in Fitchburg is valuable and extensive. The credit of successfully
establishing this industry here belongs to Alvah Crocker, who, in 1826, built a paper mill
of his own. Paper had, however, been made here to some extent previous to that time. In 1850
the firm of Crocker, Burbank and Company was formed, of which Mr. Crocker was the head until
his death in 1874. The present members of the firm are C.T. Crocker, S.E. Crocker, G.F. Fay,
G. H. Crocker and Alvah Crocker. The firm now operates five large paper mills in West Fitchburg.
A sixth, the Snow Mill, was recently destroyed by fire. About 32,000 pounds of news, book and
card paper are produced by these mills every twenty-four hours.

In 1865 the Fitchburg Paper Company was organized. Rodney Wallace, having purchased the interests
of the other three original members of the company, is now the sole proprietor. He operates
two large and well-equipped mills in West Fitchburg, which produce from 15,000 to 18,000 pounds
of card and hanging paper every twenty-four hours.

In 1864 George W. Wheelwright and Sons built a paper mill, and in 1880 the G.W. Wheelwright
Paper Company was incorporated with a capital of $100,000. The mill is located on Fourth street
and produces about 7,000 pounds of news paper per twenty-four hours.

In 1884 a number of capitalists purchased the building long known as Richardson's scythe shop,
situated on Scythe-shop road, South Fitchburg, and converted it into a paper-mill. It is now
operated by the National Paper Company and produces manilla and hanging paper.

The chair business is represented in Fitchburg by an establishment which is one of the largest
and best arranged in the world. Walter Heywood really founded this industry here in 1844, though
chairs were made in Fitchburg on a small scale some years previously. The Walter Heywood Chair
Company was organized in 1851 and incorporated in 1869 with a capital of $240,000. In July,
1870, the company's buildings on Water street were completely destroyed by fire, and a lot
on River street, comprising nine acres, was immediately purchased for the erection of new works.
These buildings, each three hundred feet long, fifty feet wide and two stories high, besides
store houses, offices and sheds, were soon ready for occupation. A private track connects the
works with the Fitchburg Railroad. The Company has a very large trade, both foreign and domestic,
and employs three hundred men. The chair stock is prepared at the company's mills in Barton,
Vermont.

The manufacture of cotton and woolen goods is extensively carried on in Fitchburg. The Fitchburg
Cotton Mill is a fine brick building at the upper end of Main street; carpet warps, batting
and twine are here manufactured. The Fitchburg Duck Mills in South Fitchburg produce cotton
duck. The Parkhill Manufacturing Company (John Parkhill, President, and Arthur H. Lowe, Treasurer),
occupies what was formerly Davis' chair shop, situated on Circle street, and manufactures gingham.
The building has been greatly enlarged and additional buildings have been erected since the
company was organized a few years ago. Excellent goods are manufactured and find a ready market.

The factory of the Fitchburg Woolen Mill Company, in Factory square, has been long established
and its products are well known. The company was organized in 1843, but the factory itself
has been in existence much longer, being one of the oldest brick buildings in town. It was
originally used as a cotton mill, but in 1822 it was made into a woolen factory. Since that
date it has been enlarged several times. William H. Vose, recently deceased, was Treasurer
and Manager of this mill for about forty years. Only a few months ago Mr. Vose wrote a concise
history of the factory since 1822, which is interesting and valuable. James Phillips, Jr.,
is a prominent woolen manufacturer and operates the three following concerns: a large woolen
manufactory in West Fitchburg, producing suitings, etc.; the Star Worsted Company, and the
Fitchburg Worsted Company, producing yarn and worsted. Mr. Phillips has met with marked success,
and his goods take high rank in the best markets. There is a woolen mill in Rockville, a village
in the westerly part of Fitchburg, operated by James McTaggart, Jr.

The firm of E.M. Dickinson & Company is the only one in the city engaged in the manufacture
of shoes. This firm occupies a handsome brick factory, recently erected on Main street, next
to the Simonds Manufacturing Company, and has a large trade both in New England and the West.
In connection with E.M. Dickinson & Company, and located in the same building, is the Sole
Leather Tip Company. The Fitchburg Furniture Company has a large manufactory on Newton Place.
A number of concerns carry on an extensive lumber business and operate establishments where
doors, sashes, blinds, and ornamental wood-work are made. J. Gushing & Company and Washburn
& Woodward operate large grain elevators and flour mills. The first named firm occupies the
"Stone Mill," one of the old land-marks of Fitchburg. In addition to the above there are numerous
individuals and firms engaged in the manufacture of confectionery, crackers, tin-ware, toys,
soap, wood pulp, carriages, harnesses, marble and granite monuments, bricks, beer, cigars and
matches. In fine there are over one hundred concerns here engaged in manufacturing on a large
scale, and considerably over one hundred establishments where occupations akin to manufacturing
are carried on.

But Fitchburg is beautiful as well as busy. Handsome churches, business blocks, public buildings
and private residences greet the eyes of strangers in our streets.

There are eleven churches in town. The First Parish (Unitarian) Church is the oldest. The present
edifice is a plain and substantial brick structure at the head of the upper common, and was
built in 1837. In 1883 the interior was entirely remodeled and stained windows put in, thus
making a handsome auditorium. Rev. W.H. Pierson is pastor of this society.

The First Methodist Church is on Main street, opposite the lower end of the upper common, and
was built in 1840. Rev. W.J. Pomfret is pastor.

The First Universalist Church stands on the corner of Main and Rollstone streets, and was built
in 1847. Rev. F.O. Hall is pastor. This society proposes to erect a new church, further down
town, before long.

On the opposite corner is the Calvinistic Congregational Church, built in 1844. Rev. S.L. Blake,
D.D., is pastor. In connection with this Church is a handsome and commodious chapel.

Further down Main street, opposite the Post-office, is the First Baptist Church, a large and
imposing structure, built in 1854. Rev. I.R. Wheelock is pastor.

A little further down, and on the opposite side of the street, is Christ Church (Episcopal).
This is built of granite and has a very attractive appearance both within and without. The
society has no settled rector at present.

Towards the lower end of Main street is situated the Rollstone Congregational Church, a fine
brick and stone structure, built in 1869. In connection with it is a handsome chapel, the gift
of the late Deacon David Boutelle and named after the donor. The Second Advent Chapel is on
the corner of North and Cherry streets; no pastor is at present settled.

The St. Bernard's Church (Catholic) is a costly and handsome brick and stone edifice on Water
street. Rev. P.J. Garrigan is pastor, and Rev. D.F. Feehan is assistant pastor. In 1878 a fine
Catholic Chapel (Church of the Sacred Heart) was built in West Fitchburg, and is now under
the charge of Rev. J.T. Donohoe. There is also a very pretty Methodist Church in West Fitchburg,
of which Rev. W. Wignall is pastor.

The Fitchburg Savings Bank block, on Main street, up town, is the largest and finest in the
city. It was erected in 1871, and is of brick with a handsome and costly front of fine, white-grained
granite. The ground floor is divided into four stores, which are as commodious and well-appointed
as any in Worcester County. On the second floor are the banking-rooms of the Fitchburg National
and Fitchburg Savings Banks, the office of the Fitchburg Mutual Fire Insurance Company, and
several law offices. The two stories above are mainly occupied by the Free Masons, whose rooms
are among the finest in the State.

The Safety Fund National Bank has rooms in Crocker Block, a handsome brick and stone structure
further down on Main street. The Windsor Club (social) has attractive rooms in this block.

The Rollstone National Bank has rooms in the Rollstone Bank block, a large and fine brick and
sandstone structure, on the south side of Main street, down town. The rooms of the Worcester
North Savings Institution are also in this block, and the Odd Fellows and E.V. Sumner Encampment,
Post 19, Grand Army of the Republic, have commodious apartments in the upper portion. The Wachusett
National Bank has a brick banking house on the corner of Main and Day streets.

Whitney's Opera House block contains the only theatre in town. The stage is of good size and
well-appointed and the auditorium neat and attractive. Good companies appear here throughout
the season, and are well patronized by citizens of Fitchburg and neighboring towns. Other blocks
worthy of mention are Belding & Dickinson's, Coggshall & Carpenter's, Hatch's, Wixon's (not
yet completed), and Stiles'--all on Main street, and Union and Goodrich on Day street.

There are eight hotels in the city, the Fitchburg Hotel and the American House being the two
largest.

The City Hall, on Main street, nearly opposite the Savings Bank block, is a large brick building.
The entire upper story is devoted to a large hall, called the City Hall. It is the largest
in the city. There are about a dozen other halls of various sizes in different parts of the
city. On the first floor of the City Hall are the various city offices, rooms of the Mayor,
Aldermen and Common Council. The entire rear portion is occupied by the Public Library, containing
over sixteen thousand volumes, which will soon be removed to the new and elegant "Wallace Library
and Art Building," now in process of completion. Mr. Wallace's generous gift to the city is
fully described in another article.

The Post-Office occupies the lower floor of a neat and substantial brick edifice opposite the
Baptist Church. The letter-carrier system was begun here November 1, 1884. In the upper portion
of this building are rooms occupied by the Fitchburg Board of Trade and the Park Club (social).
Just below the Post-Office is Monument Square, in the centre of which is a handsome soldiers'
monument, designed by Martin Milmore, and costing about $25,000. It was dedicated June 26,
1874. Four brass cannon, procured through Alvah Crocker while a Member of Congress, stand in
the enclosure. In the rear of the square is the Court House, a stone building of noble proportions,
built in 1871.

Fitchburg is located on the Hoosac Tunnel route, and hence has extensive railroad facilities.
The Fitchburg Railroad runs eleven passenger trains to Boston every week, day and five to Greenfield
and North Adams. The Northern Division of the Old Colony Railroad terminates here and furnishes
four trains daily to Boston, and also to the principal cities of southern Massachusetts. The
Fitchburg and Worcester Division affords ample means of communication with our sister city.
The Cheshire Railroad furnishes four trains daily to points in New Hampshire and Vermont. A
route for the proposed Fitchburg and Manchester Railroad was surveyed last summer. The Union
Passenger Depot, used by all these roads in common, is a commodious building and an ornament
to the city. Not far from the depot is the "L.J. Brown" store, a large and handsome building
with a brown stone front, which is certainly worthy of mention, both as a sample of the business
blocks in town, and as a memorial of the late L.J. Brown.

Fitchburg is well provided with school houses. The High School on High street is a large and
convenient building, and was erected in 1869. Mr. R.G. Huling has been the Principal since
1875. There are three large Grammar school buildings in the city proper, and one in West Fitchburg,
besides a dozen or more buildings occupied by lower grades in various localities in town.

There are two newspapers published here. The Fitchburg Sentinel occupies the entire upper portion
of one of the oldest brick buildings in town. The structure has been raised and enlarged since
it was first built. The first number of the Sentinel appeared December 30, 1838, and on May
6, 1873, the Daily Sentinel began its existence. Both are still published and enjoy a large
and increasing circulation. The Fitchburg Tribune is issued weekly. This paper has been established
only a few years, but under the present proprietor is acquiring a goodly circulation.

Our city is fortunate in possessing an abundant supply of excellent water derived from Scott,
Shattuck and Falulah Brooks. Three reservoirs, Overlook, Scott and Marshall, were constructed
at the time the water-works were first put in operation, a dozen years ago. These are located
on the high land north-west of the city. In 1883 a fourth reservoir was constructed and named
Falulah from the brook by which it is supplied. Overlook is the largest and most elevated,
being four hundred feet above the railroad tracks. More than eighteen miles of service pipe
are now in use, and there are over two hundred fire hydrants at various points. The city is
equipped with a fire alarm telegraph, having thirty-one signal boxes, and maintains an efficient
and well managed Fire Department. It is thus easy to understand why Fitchburg seldom has a
fire that amounts to much.

The Wachusett Electric Light Company began to light the principal streets in the city proper
in 1883, and still continues to furnish agreeable illumination.

The Fitchburg Gas Company, organized in 1852, has works a little below the Union Depot and
is in prosperous condition.

The Fitchburg Divison of the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company comprises this city,
Leominster, Lunenburg and Westminster. There are nearly four hundred subscribers.

The Fitchburg Roller Skating Rink is an institution very attractive to the public and well
patronized. There is also a skating rink in West Fitchburg.

The Massachusetts Mutual Aid Society, an organization for life insurance, was incorporated
in 1875, and its members now number several thousands.

The Fitchburg Co-operative Savings Fund and Loan Association was incorporated in 1877. Monthly
payments are made by share holders and money loaned on real-estate.

The Worcester North Agricultural Society was incorporated in 1852, and has extensive fair grounds
and a trotting park in the easterly part of the township.

The city owns two cemeteries. Laurel Hill Cemetery is large and has been in use for at least
seventy-five years. It occupies a hill overhanging the river, and is truly a city of the dead
overlooking the city of the living. Forest Hill Cemetery is on the Mount Elam road, two miles
south of the city, and is of more recent origin. St. Bernard's Cemetery, in the easterly part
of the town, is owned by the Roman Catholics.

Fitchburg hospitality is well known, and Masonic or other organizations are always sure of
royal entertainment and a grand good time when they visit their Fitchburg brethren.

Art, literature and music have always been cultivated here. Though there is no organized art
club in town, there are not a few artists here of merit whose skill with crayon and brush is
fully appreciated.

The Fitchburg Literary Club was organized some fifteen years ago. Its membership has been large
and its meetings interesting. Mr. R.G. Huling is now the President of the club. Several writers
of prose and verse reside in town.

In proof of musical talent we refer with just pride to the Fitchburg Military Band, G.A. Patz,
Director. The band, under the faithful and skillful management of the late Warren S. Russell,
attained almost the highest rank among the musical organizations of New England. Mr. Russell
was a most estimable man, of rare musical ability, and his death in March, 1884, was a sad
blow to the members of the band, and to the citizens of Fitchburg as well. At his funeral,
March 18, 1884, the floral tributes from many musical organizations in New England, the presence
of Mr. D.W. Reeves, always a warm friend of Mr. Russell, with the American Band of Providence,
Rhode Island, whose members voluntarily tendered their services for the occasion gratuitously;
the great concourse of citizens and the general suspension of business throughout the city,
showed better than any words the estimation in which he was held. In April, 1884, Mr. Patz
became the leader of the band. That he is eminently qualified for the position is shown by
the fact that the band still maintains its high rank and bids fair to surpass in the future
the successes of the past. In the upper common is a very handsome band-stand, erected by means
of the generosity of certain citizens, and down town in Railroad Park is another, not quite
as ornamental. The band gives a concert at each place nearly every week during warm weather,
and large audiences appreciate the music. Nor are we lacking in vocal talent. Several of our
residents, some of whom have perfected themselves abroad, have acquired, or are acquiring,
reputation as singers.

There are many handsome residences and fine estates in and around the city, a few of which
are represented in this sketch. It is to be regretted that the residence of Mr. George F. Fay,
of Crocker, Burbank & Co., cannot be shown. It is in process of completion, and when finished
will be the finest in the city.

Fitchburg is situated in a pleasant valley, extending nearly east and west, through the southern
portion of which runs the little river. Main street is just north of this stream, and, in a
measure, parallel to it. This is the principal business street in the city and from either
side of it branch off streets most of which eventually climb up a hillside. The city tends
to increase along the course of the valley mainly, though now the surrounding slopes are fast
becoming covered with dwellings. The streets (with the exception of Main) are unpaved, but
are carefully looked after by the city and always kept in good condition. Good sidewalks, plenty
of shade trees, and the general appearance of thrift and neatness on the part of citizens,
make a stroll through the streets of Fitchburg very agreeable. Such, at least, is the opinion
of the writer who, as a native of the place, may be allowed to express pardonable pride in
the general appearance of prosperity, neatness and intelligence in the community.

This sketch would be incomplete without some slight allusion to the surrounding country. The
most marked topographical feature in this region is Rollstone Hill, a rounded eminence, composed
entirely of granite. It is just southwest of the city. Its top is bare rock, but the sides
are covered with a thin layer of soil, which furnishes support for quite a forest. Several
quarries are worked during warm weather, and an immense amount of granite has been taken out
without any apparent diminution in the size of the hill. It may be of interest to state that
the Fitchburg Railroad depot, in Boston, is built of granite taken from this hill; and there
are several other large stone structures in the Hub built of the same material. On the very
summit of Rollstone is perched "the Boulder," a round mass of rock, forty-five feet in circumference,
and weighing at least one hundred tons. The rock of which it is composed is totally unlike
any rock formation within a radius of thirty miles or more, and it is probable that this boulder
was brought to its present position by ice. The view from the top of this hill is well worth
the slight trouble taken in ascending it. At the feet of the observer lies the city, forming
almost a semi-circle. Wooded hills arise on all sides. Wachusett, twelve miles distant, rears
its imposing pile in the south, while Big Watatic overtops its brethren in the northwest. Almost
opposite Rollstone is Pearl Hill, which is also well worth a visit.

There are many pleasant drives around Fitchburg, which are thoroughly appreciated by the citizens.
But we must not dwell longer upon Fitchburg or its environs. Let those who are strangers to
our city come and see for themselves. They will be welcome.

The writer is aware that much has been omitted in this sketch which ought to have been spoken
of; but in a magazine article, intended simply to give a general idea of the place, such must
of necessity be the case. Much space might, for instance, be most justly devoted to the business
men and merchants of Fitchburg, who, by hard work and fair dealing, have acquired honorable
names in the community. It would be quite possible to fill several more pages with such matters,
but it is probable that the readers of the "BAY STATE" will coincide with the opinion that
it is about time to stop.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PAST AND FUTURE OF GOLD.

BY DAVID M. BALFOUR.

Gold, from the earliest times to the present day, has been regarded as one of the most precious
of metals. Next to osmium, iodium, and platinum, it is the heaviest of metals, being nineteen
times heavier than water. Next to iron it is the most extensively diffused metal upon our planet.
It occurs in granite, the oldest rock known to us, and in all the rocks derived from it. It
is, however, much more common in alluvial grounds than among primitive and pyrogenous rocks.
Nine-tenths of the gold which has been produced has been obtained from alluvial beds. Gold
mines are generally situated at the extreme limits of civilization. Herodotus notes the fact
and he is confirmed by Humbolt. It is first mentioned in Genesis ii: 11. It was found in the
country of Havilah, where the rivers Euphrates and Tigris unite and discharge their waters
into the Persian Gulf. Gold is never found in mass, in veins, or lodes; it is interspersed,
in threads or flakes, throughout quartz or other rocks. It is the only metal of a yellow color;
it is easily chrystallizable, and always assumes one or more of the symmetrical shapes,--such
as the cube or octahedron. It affords a resplendent polish, and may be exposed, for any length
of time, to the atmosphere without suffering change, and is remarkable for its beauty. Its
malleability is such that a cubic inch will cover a surface of eighteen hundred square feet;
and its ductility is such that a cube of four inches could be drawn into a wire which would
extend around the earth.

Gold in its relative value to silver has varied greatly at different periods.

In the days of the patriarch Abraham, it was one to eight; B.C. 1000, it was one to twelve;
B.C. 500, it was one to thirteen; at the commencement of the Christian era, it was one to nine;
A.D. 500, it was one to eighteen; in 1100, it was one to eight; in 1400, it was one to eleven;
in 1545, it was one to six; in 1551 it was one to two; in 1600, it was one to ten; in 1627,
it was one to thirteen; in 1700, it was one to fifteen and one-half; it held the latter ratio,
with but slight variation, until 1872, when it began to rise, and in 1876 it rose to one to
twenty; it soon afterwards gradually declined, and now stands one to nineteen and one-half.
The supply of silver beyond a legitimate demand for financial purposes, the decrease of the
export of silver to the East, and the demonetization of silver by the principal countries of
Europe, have induced a tendency in the ratio of the two metals to again advance. Gold was extremely
abundant in ancient times. It was plenteously furnished by the rivers of Asia. The sands of
Pactolus, the golden fleece conquered by the Argonauts, the gold of Ophir, the fable of King
Midas, all tend to show the eastern origin of gold. It was abundant in Cabul and Little Thibet.
It abounded in the empire of the Pharaohs, as is attested by the traces of mining operations,
now exhausted, and by the multitude of objects of gold contained in their tombs. Dennis ("History
of the Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria," vol. II, p. 50) states that "gold ornaments, whose
beauty and richness are amazing, abound in the tombs of the Etruscans, who were undoubtedly
one of the most remarkable nations of antiquity, and the great civilizers of Italy. In a single
tomb in Cerveti, fragments of breastplates, earrings, and brooches, sufficient to fill more
than one basket, were found crushed beneath a mass of fallen masonry. A gold chain, with a
number of pendant scaraboei, was found in a tomb in Vulci, transcending anything before seen
by him. Bieda, Chiusi, Canosa, Casuccini, Perugia, and Veii belong in the same category." Schlieman
("Ilios" p. 253, et. seq.) states that they had an abundance of gold, bordering, as they did,
on Phrygia, and nearly touching the valley of the Pactolus, so famous for its auriferous sands.
It was very pure and therefore easily worked. In a tomb a single vase was found containing
eighty-seven hundred small objects of gold. Ornaments of gold are very abundant in the tombs
of Mycenae. In remote antiquity the bulk of gold was brought by the Phenicians from Arabia,
which had twenty-two gold mines. It was the ancient El Dorado, and proverbial for its wealth
of gold in all antiquity, down to the Middle Ages. "Arabia sends us gold," said Thomas A. Becket.
Sacred ornaments of gold abound in churches, temples, pagodas, and tombs, throughout the Eastern
hemisphere. The Homeric poems call Mycenae a city rich in gold. Gold abounded in the Levant,
and it was obtained in considerable quantity in the island of Siphnos, and also from Pangaeus.
It was found in abundance in Turdeltania in Spain; it was brought down by the rivers Tagus
and Duoro; and it was plenty in Dacia, Transylvania, and the Asturias. Caligula caused his
guests to be helped with gold (which they carried away), instead of bread and meat. The dresses
of Nero were stiff with embroidery and gold; he fished with hooks of gold, and his attendants
wore necklaces, and bracelets of gold. The Egyptians obtained large quantities of gold from
the upper Nile, and from Ethiopia. Among them it was estimated by weight, usually in the form
of bulls or oxen. In the centre of the continent, upon which so much light has been recently
thrown by Livingston, Stanley, and others, rocks are to be met with quartz veins containing
gold, and thus auriferous alluvium has been formed. Western Africa was the first field which
supplied gold to mediaeval Europe. Its whole seaboard from Morocco to the equator produces
more or less gold. This small section of the continent poured a flood of gold into Europe,
and until the mineral discoveries of California and Australia, it continued to be the principal
supply to the civilized world. In eastern Akim gold is said to be as plentiful as potatoes
in Ireland. The Fanti gold mines are far more valuable than Ashanti, and the Wassaw and the
Nquampossoo have gold nuggets in profusion. The King of Gyaman became immensely rich by the
product of his gold mines; his bed had steps of gold. The French claim that they imported gold
from Elmina in 1382. The Portuguese discovered gold in 1442, upon the borders of Rio de Ouro.
Mungo Park, in 1797, drew attention to the existence of gold in the provinces of Shronda, Kinkodi,
Dindiko, Bambuk, and Barabarra. Caille, in 1827, reported an abundance of gold in the valley
of the Niger. The gold mines of Boure were first visited by Winwood Reade in 1872. The inhabitants
of Western Africa have worked their gold fields for centuries to very little purpose. Their
want of pumps, of quartz-crushing machinery, and of scientific appliances, has limited their
labors to scratching the top soil and nibbling at the reef-walls. A large proportion of the
country is virtually virgin ground; and a rich harvest has been left for Occidental science,
energy, and enterprise. It is fast becoming evident that Africa will one day equal half a dozen
Californias. The annual product of gold in Africa has declined from $17,000,000 in 1471 to
$3,000,000 in 1816. Since the latter date it has gradually declined to $2,000,000. The gold
product since 1471 has amounted to $3,500,000,000.

Gold, after the discovery of America, was produced in large quantities, principally in the
Antilles, and chiefly in Hispaniola, and the western coast of the Gulf of Mexico. America is
pre-eminently the land of metals. Gold is found in greater or less abundance throughout its
Pacific coast from Alaska to Patagonia. The New World furnishes nearly two-thirds of the precious
metals annually produced. The export of gold from the United States since 1848 has amounted
to $1,548,564,852. The gold mines of Peru were revealed to Europe by Pizarro in 1513. The gold
mines of South America extend throughout its entire territory. Its richest mines are about
Huylas and Turma, Most of the rivers of the Andes bring down auriferous sands. Before the arrival
of the Spaniards the Indians had gathered from the river sands large quantities of gold in
Peru, Chili, and along the whole western coast of South America. Brazil has yielded, from 1513
to the present time, $876,000,000 of gold. The annual product of gold, in South America, at
the present time is $8,000,000. The total product, from 1513 to the present time, has amounted
to $2,176,000,000. The gold mines of North America extend from Costa Rica to Alaska, between
the parallels 8° and 71° of North latitude, and the parallels of 82° and 168° of West longitude,
comprised between the Caribbean sea and the Arctic ocean, and the Rocky mountains and the Pacific
ocean. The Mexican gold mines were discovered by Cortez in 1526. Their annual product has decreased
from $3,000,000 in former times to $1,000,000 at the present time. Their total product to the
present time has amounted to $652,000,000. Gold was discovered in California by William Marshall,
on the ninth day of February, 1848, at Suter's mill on the American fork of the Sacramento
river, and the mines extend from 34° to 40° of North latitude. Their annual product has decreased
from $81,000,000 in 1853 to $14,000,000 at the present time. The annual product of the gold
mines of Colorado, Dakota, Nevada, Montana, Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, and other parts of the
United States, at the present time, is estimated to be $16,000,000. Their total product has
amounted to $200,000,000. The annual product of the gold mines of British Columbia is estimated
to be $2,000,000. Their total product has amounted to $52,000,000. In estimating the gold product
of California Messrs. Hussey, Bond and Hale, of San Francisco, (Hunt's Mer. Mag., vol. XXVII,
p. 43) state,--"that there should be added to the amount exhibited upon steamers' manifests
fifteen to sixty per cent, for the amount carried in the valises and pockets of returning passengers,
overland to Mexico, exported to Chili, and retained in California for purposes of currency."
Fenton (Tasmania, p. 430) states,--"that the product of gold, $850,000, in Tasmania, in 1883,
does not include the value of gold which left the colony by private hands, when it is considered
that the alluvial auriferous deposits are worked by men who are constantly on the move and
who sometimes take with them, to the other colonies, the product of their washings, without
leaving behind them any record of the weight or value of the gold thus removed." This rule
should be applied to Australia, Russia, New Zealand, and all countries which are producers
of the precious metals. The annual product of the gold mines of North America is $32,000,000.
Their total product from 1513 to the present time is estimated to be $2,764,000,000, of which
$2,164,000,000 have been obtained since 1848. The annual product of gold in America is $40,000,000,--more
than one-third of the entire annual product of the world. The total gold product of America,
since the hills of Hispaniola were revealed to the eyes of Columbus, has amounted to $4,940,000,000--one-third
of the product of the world since the earliest times.

Gold was discovered in Russia in 1743, near Nertschinsk, alluvial deposits having been observed
in that year in the Ural mountains. The mines extend over that parallelogram of the earth's
surface, comprised between the parallels of 50° and 60° of north latitude, between the Volga
and Amoor rivers. They were not generally explored until 1810. In 1816 their product was but
$80,000; at the close of 1823 there was a large development. In 1830 the annual product was
$4,000,000. About that time the deposits of Siberia were discovered, and at the close of 1840
they yielded a greater production than those of the Ural. In 1843 the total annual product
of both regions was $18,000,000. In 1853 it attained to $36,000,000, but since that date it
has gradually declined to $22,000,000. The total product of the Russian goldmines has amounted
to $805,000,000. The annual product of gold in Europe is $24,000,000. The total product of
gold in Europe, from the earliest times to the present day, has amounted to $4,145,000,000.

Gold was discovered in Australia by Edward Hammand Hargreaves, on the twelfth day of February,
1851, in the Bathurst and Wellington districts, and the mines extend from 18° to 38° of South
latitude. Their annual product has decreased from $75,000,000 in 1853 to $26,000,000 at the
present time. Their total product has amounted to $1,453,000,000. The finest gold was obtained
at Ballarat, and the largest nugget was dug up at Donolly, and weighed 2,448 ounces, valued
at $46,000. The New Zealand gold mines were discovered by Messrs. Hartly and Reilly, on the
twentieth of August, 1861, in the Otago district, on the Molineux river, on the 45° of South
latitude. Their annual product has decreased from $10,000,000 in 1863 to $4,000,000 at the
present time. Their total product has amounted to $176,000,000. The annual product of gold
in Asia (including Australia, New Zealand and Oceanica) is $32.000,000. The total product of
gold in Asia, from the earliest times to the present day, has amounted $2,065,000,000.

Gold was considered bullion in Palestine for a long time after silver was current as money.
The first mention of gold as money, in the Bible, is in David's reign (B.C. 1056) when that
king purchased the threshing-floor of Oman for six hundred shekels of gold by weight ($4,500.)
The Lydians were the first people who coined money. The word "money" is derived from the temple
of Jupiter Moneta, where the Roman mint was established. Croesus (B.C. 560) coined the golden
stater, which contained one hundred and thirty-three grains of pure metal. Darius, son of Hystaspes,
(B.C. 538) coined the daric, which contained one hundred and twenty-one grains of pure metal;
it was preferred for its fineness, for several ages, throughout the East. It is supposed to
be mentioned in the Old Testament under the name of dram. Very few specimens have come down
to us. Their scarcity may be accounted for by the fact that they were melted down under the
type of Alexander. Next were some coins of the tyrants of Sicily; of Gelo (B.C. 491), of Helo
(B.C. 478), and of Dionysius (B.C. 404). Specimens of the former two are still preserved in
modern cabinets. Gold coin was by no means plenty in Greece, until Philip of Macedon put the
mines of Thrace into full operation, about B.C. 300. There are only about a dozen Greek coins
in existence, three of which are in the British Museum; and of the latter, two are staters,
of the weight of one hundred and twenty-nine grains each. About B.C. 207, a gold coin was struck
off at Rome called "aureus," four specimens of which are in the institution before alluded
to. Its weight was one hundred and twenty-four grains.

Gold coins were issued in France by Clovis, A.D. 489. About the same time, they were issued
in Spain by Amalric, the Gothic king; in both countries they were called "trientes." The "mouton,"
worth about nine dollars, was issued in 1156. Gold coins were first issued in England in 1257,
in the shape of a "penny," of the value of twenty pence; only two specimens have come down
to us. "Florins" were next issued in 1334, of the value of six shillings. The "noble" followed
next of the value of six shillings and eight pence; being stamped with a rose, it was called
the "rose noble." "Angels" appeared in 1465, of the same value as the latter. The "royal" followed
next in 1466, of the value of ten shillings. Then come for the first time the "sovereign,"
in 1489, of the value of twenty shillings. The "crown" followed in 1527, of the value of ten
shillings. "Units" and "lions," were issued in 1603; the "laurel" 1633, and "exurgats," in
1642; all of the value of twenty shillings. The "guinea," of the value of twenty-one shillings,
was issued in 1663, of Guinea gold. In 1773 all gold coins, except the guinea, were called
in and forbidden to be circulated. The present sovereign was issued in 1817. The United States
"half eagle" was issued in 1793.

Gold, to the amount of $2,171,000,000, was obtained from the surface and mines of the earth
from the earliest times to the commencement of the Christian era; from the date of the latter
event, to the discovery of America, $3,842,374,000 was obtained; from the date of the latter
event to the close of 1847 an addition of $3,056,000,000 was obtained; the triple discovery
of the California mines in 1848, the Australian in 1851, and the New Zealand in 1861, has added,
to the close of 1884, $5,558,626,000; making a grand total of $14,628,000,000, of which $5,818,626,000
has been obtained since 1843. The average loss by abrasion of coin is estimated by Professor
Bowen at one-twentieth of one per cent. per annum, and the loss by consumption in the arts,
and by fire and shipwreck, at $4,000,000 per annum. A cubic inch of gold is worth, at 3£ 17s.
10 1-2d., or $18.96 per ounce., $193; a cubic foot, $333,504; and a cubic yard, $9,004,608.

Gold to the amount of $1,081,000,000, is estimated to have been in existence at the commencement
of the Christian era. At the period of the discovery of America it had diminished to $135,000,000;
after that event, it gradually increased, and in 1600 it attained to $154,000,000, in 1700
it reached $398,000,000, in 1800 it amounted to $1,156,000,000, in 1853 it attained to $3,332,000,000,
and at the present time the amount of gold in existence is estimated to be $8,166,000,000;
which, if melted into one mass, could be contained in the basement of Bunker Hill Monument,
which is a cube of thirty feet. Of the amount of gold in existence $6,000,000,000 is estimated
to be in coin and bullion, $1,000,000,000 in watches, and the remainder in plate, jewelry,
and ornaments. Of the amount of gold in existence $2,374,000,000 is estimated to have been
obtained from North America, $1,739,000,000 from South America; $1,858,000,000 from Asia (including
Australia, New Zealand, and Oceanica), $945,000,000 from Europe, and $1,250,000,000 from Africa.
The amount of the precious metals now in existence is estimated to be $13,670,000,000.

Gold, as compared with former periods, in regard to its annual product, has attained, within
the last forty-two years, to enormous proportions. At the date of the discovery of America
it was but $100,000; after the occurrence of that event it gradually increased, and in 1800
it was $17,000,000, and in 1853 it reached its acme, when it was $236,000,000; it soon afterwards
gradually decreased, and now it is but $98,000,000.

Gold has changed places with silver as regards coinage. Since 1726 the gold coinage of the
French mint has amounted to 11,400,000,000 francs, of which 8,200,000,000 francs have been
issued since 1850. Since 1603 the gold coinage of the British mint has amounted to £409,000,000,
of which £253,000,000 have been issued since 1850. Since 1792 the gold coinage of the United
States mint has amounted to $1,357,000,000, of which $1,257,000,000 have been issued since
1850. Since 1664 the gold coinage of the Russian mint has amounted to 900,000,000 roubles,
of which 630,000,000 have been issued since 1850. The twenty-five-franc piece of France contains
112 grains of pure metal; the sovereign of England, 113 grains; the new doubloon of Spain,
and the half-eagle of the United States, 116 grains each; and the gold lion of the Netherlands,
and double-ounce of Sicily, 117 grains each. It was proposed, a few years since, to adopt a
uniform system of coinage throughout the world, so that the coins of one nation may circulate
in any other without the expense of re-coinage, "a consummation devoutly to be wished." The
gold coinage of the principal countries of the world has increased from $77,000,000 in 1848
to $300,000,000 in 1854; in 1876 it declined to $250,000,000, since which it has continued
to decrease, and is now but $90,000,000. The gold coinage of the United States mint, since
1849, has amounted to $1,281,420,038. In proportion as the wealth of a country increases it
requires a currency of higher value. Gold, owing to its greater supply, and more convenient
portability, is steadily gaining in the channels of commercial exchange upon silver.

Gold, in view of the large amount which has been thrown into the monetary circulation of the
world since 1843, and the little influence it has exercised upon the money market and prices
generally, has falsified the predictions of financial writers, a generation ago, upon both
sides of the Atlantic. The following statement will exhibit the wholesale cash prices in the
New York market, on the first day of January, in the respective years, of six of the principal
articals of commerce:

                      1860.     1872.     1885.
Beef, per barrel     $10.75    $10.00    $11.75
Pork,  "    "         16.25     14.00     12.25
Flour, "   "           5.25      4.12      2.55
Rice,  " 100 lbs.      3.87      8.44      5.62
Corn,  " bushel         .93       .81       .48
Cotton, " pound         .11 3-4   .21 1-4   .11 1-4

War is the great enhancer of prices. During the Civil War in the United States (1861-1865),
the prices of the above articles were more than doubled.

Gold, in the midst of its sudden plethora, was a perplexing problem to the financial prophets
of a third of a century ago. M. Michel Chevalier (Revue des Deux Mondes, November, 1857) predicted,--"that
a decline would occur in the price of gold, equal to one-half of its former value; that a period
of peril was impending, full of inquietude, instability and damage to a great variety of interests;
that the value of gold would be diminished, and that consequently wages and prices would be
doubled; that the duties on imports, and the interest on the debts of the principal nations
of the world, must necessarilly follow the same course; that it would inevitably involve a
re-coinage of all the existing gold coins of the world, from time to time, in order to conform
to the price of the metal; that the value of the twenty-franc piece would be reduced to 19
1-2, 19, 18 francs, as the depreciation descended; and he, therefore, recommended a cessation
of the gold coinage until the lowest point of depreciation is reached; that the new gold fields
were likely to prove as productive as at first for several generations; in no direction could
new outlets be seen sufficiently large to absorb the extra production in such a manner as to
prevent a fall in its value. It might fall until nineteen francs would correspond only to the
amount of well being which could then be obtained for five francs." Poor man! He lived to see
the utter failure of all his predictions; to behold France become the largest coiner of gold
in the world; an exporter of the precious metals to the amount of $43,000,000 annually during
a decade; the rise of the standard of gold from 15 1-2 to 18, as compared with silver, and
involving a decline from 62 3-4d. to 52d. per ounce; great fear of a gold famine come upon
the Directors of the Bank of France, and also of the Bank of England; the annual product of
gold to attain its acme, four years before his predictions; its gradual decline, until it had
descended to one-half; a new gold-field opened in New Zealand; and silver demonetized by his
own country, Germany, and the other principal countries of Europe. M. Emile de Lavelaye (Ninteenth
Century Review, September, 1881), states, "that the present annual supply of gold is no more
than sufficient to meet the requirements of the expanding commerce of the world. The scarcity
of gold has induced so great a fall in prices that they are now lower than in 1850. It is estimated
that North America has contributed £14,000,000 of the stock of gold in the world." We have
already shown that the annual product of gold has increased, at one period, thirteen fold,
and is now, notwithstanding its rapid decrease, five fold greater than at the commencement
of the present century; that prices have not been in the least degree affected by the increased
supply of gold; and that North America has contributed $2,374,000,000 of the stock of gold
in the world.

Gold has faithfully performed for the last forty-two years, and, in view of its abundance and
prospective increase, will continue to support its role of a fixed standard of value, and a
firm basis for the bank-note circulation of the principal countries of the civilized world,
which is evidently growing gradually metallic, as a comparative statement of the amount of
bank-note circulation issued, and the amount of specie held by the Bank of England, the joint
stock banks, and the private banks of Great Britain the Bank of France, the State banks, and
the National banks of the United States, at different periods, will exhibit:

---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                1840.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
             | GREAT BRITAIN. |     FRANCE.          | UNITED STATES.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Circulation  |  £34,976,524   |  220,005,695 francs. | $87,872,171
Specie       |    8,751,342   |  225,406,807   "     |  35,207,690
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                               1850.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Circulation  |  £34,948,765   |  481,552,000 francs. | $118,984,112
Specie       |   19,843,026   |  458,820,000    "    |   45,379,345
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                               1862.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Circulation  |  £39,574,862   |  725,417,563 francs. | $126,599,167
Specie       |   22,917,846   |  324,915,234     "   |  102,507,559
---------------------------------------------------------------------
                               1885.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Circulation  |  £37,215,968   |2,912,386,475 francs. | $112,027,858
Specie       |   28,146,893   |2,065,937,158     "   |  139,747,080
---------------------------------------------------------------------

Gold has robbed silver of the prestige claimed for it two centuries ago by Locke,--"that it
is the instrument and measure of commerce in all the civilized and trading parts of the world,
and its normal currency." Gold has maintained its present price for one hundred and sixty years,
while silver has declined twenty-two per cent. within thirteen. When, owing to scarcity, gold
advances in price, then we may fear, that, what the late Mr. Bagehot use to call the "apprehension
point," is close at our heels. The amount of gold in existence has increased from $1,975,000,000
in 1843 to $8,166,000,000 at the present time; while silver, owing to the great attrition of
coin (estimated by Bowen at one per cent. per annum), has increased from $5,040,000,000 to
but $5,504,000,000, during the same period. Of the two hundred and twelve millions of dollars
of the precious metals annually produced, ninety-eight millions are furnished by gold.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY MOUNTAIN HOME.

BY WILLIAM C. STUROC.

  Down in the valleys, where the grasses grow,
    And waves the gold-rod and the meadow queen;
  Where peaceful streamlets, with a languid flow,
    Are calmly shimmering in the noonday sheen--
  There may be peace, and plenty too, I ween;
    But on the mountain's elephantine height,
  Where thunder-drums are beat on bassy key,
    And lightning-flashes glisten through the night;
  And forests groan with storm-chang'd melody,
    There let my home, 'mid lofty nature be--
  That, near the stars, and near the sun and moon,
    My eyes may gaze upon the book of space,
  And learn the lyrics that are sung in tune
    As rolling orbs their constant journeys trace.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Knefler to General Wallace:

    INDIANAPOLIS, February 19, 1868.

    GENERAL. Upon reading the "Life of Grant," by Colonel Badeau, I
    was much surprised to see his version of your conduct on the
    first day of the battle of Shiloh. As I was present with your
    command on that day, as Assistant Adjutant General of Division,
    I desire to make the following statement of facts, as I can
    remember them at this time:

    The position of your division, on the morning of the sixth of
    April, 1862, was as follows: Headquarters of the division and
    camp of the First Brigade at Crump's Landing; Second Brigade,
    two and a half miles from Crump's Landing, on the Purdy road, at
    a place, if I remember right, called Stony Lonesome; Third
    Brigade, two and a half miles from the camp of the Second
    Brigade, at Adamsville, on the Purdy road, and five miles from
    Headquarters of division at Crump's Landing.

    When the cannonading was first heard on Sunday morning 'you
    issued orders' at once, for the concentration of the division at
    camp of the Second Brigade, at Stony Lonesome. The baggage, camp
    and garrison equipage was ordered to Crump's Landing, and
    detachments were made for its protection. "These orders were
    given before you heard from Headquarters."

    About 9 o'clock General Grant passed up on the Tigris and in
    passing the boat upon which were your Headquarters, had a
    conversation with you. I did not hear what was said, but you
    immediately mounted, and accompanied by your staff rode rapidly
    to the camp of the Second Brigade. It was, perhaps, two hours
    before any order arrived. I know you were anxiously looking for
    orders, and finally despatched one of your aids to ride to the
    landing to ascertain if any one had arrived with orders, and
    conduct him to you. Shortly after that,--it must have been 12
    o'clock, M., Captain Baxter, A.Q.M., arrived with orders, and
    brought the very cheering intelligence that our army was
    successful. I cannot tell at this time what the particular
    language was. The order was placed in my hands as Assistant
    Adjutant General, but where it is now, or what became of it, I
    am unable to say; very likely, having been written on a scrap of
    paper, it was lost after coming into my hands; a matter which I
    much regret, as I feel confident that its production now would
    conclusively demonstrate that you obeyed the command contained
    in it. I remember, however, distinctly, that it was a written
    order to march and form a junction with the right of the army,
    which was understood to be the right of the army as it rested on
    the morning when the battle began. Suffice it to say, that the
    division marched at once, and took the road which had been
    previously ascertained as leading to the right of the army, in
    the position it occupied on the morning of the sixth, and
    previous to that time. The road was then patrolled and picketted
    by cavalry detachments of your command. By your permission, I
    was marching with the advance guard, comprised of several
    companies of the Twenty-fourth Indiana Volunteers, Lieutenant
    Colonel Berber, commanding. We marched very rapidly, and to
    judge from the sound of the battle, we were approaching it fast.
    The advanced guard had reached the crossing of Snake Creek, near
    a mill, or some large building, where a bridge had been
    constructed, and from that point we could see the smoke
    overhanging the battle-field and distinctly hear the musketry,
    when an order was received, to retrace our steps, and work our
    way to the head of the column. We marched back at once, almost
    to our starting place, where we found the column was marching
    through the woods where there was no road (not even a trail
    appeared) to save time and distance. The troops were marching
    very fast, and I did not come up with you for perhaps two hours
    after the advance guard received orders to countermarch.

    When the column was put in motion on the river road, which must
    have been after 4 o'clock, we were met by some staff officers of
    General Grant, Major Rawlins and Colonel McPherson, and another
    officer whom I did not know. They had some conversation with
    you, and then, for the first time I learned that our troops had
    been repulsed, and that we were then marching to join the right
    of the army, in its new position, at Pittsburg Landing. After
    some hard marching over execrable roads we reached our position
    about dusk.

    The road the division first marched on led directly to the right
    of the army in its position as stated above, and we would have
    joined it, had it not been repulsed, before 3 o'clock P.M.

    Having conversed with many of the division who were present on
    that day, it is the general impression that we marched between
    fifteen and eighteen miles. Now, considering that we had troops
    not inured to hard marching, some of them on their first march,
    the condition of the roads, almost impassible, and part of that
    distance through woods, without any road, at all, it certainly
    ought not to be intimated that you did not do your whole duty in
    endeavoring to reach the field.

    I am General, very respectfully, Your obedient servant,

    FRED KNEFLER.

    Late Colonel Seventy-ninth Regiment Indiana Volunteers.

       *       *       *       *       *

REUBEN TRACY'S VACATION TRIPS.

BY ELIZABETH PORTER GOULD.

II.

"O mamma, did'nt we have a good time at the Isles of Shoals last summer?" said Reuben Tracy
to his mother one evening last July as they sat together on their piazza. "Did'nt the boys
stare though when I told them all about it in our geography class. Ned Bolton said that I knew
more about it than the geography did; and afterwards he asked me if I had ever seen a mountain.
How I wish I could see one and climb to the very top of it. Oh my, would'nt I look!"

And the boy's eyes looked as though they would look to the satisfaction of the most devoted
teacher.

"Well," my boy, replied Mrs. Tracy as she drew him nearer to her in loving admiration of such
enthusiasm, "only yesterday I received a letter from your uncle in Northampton urging me to
take you and come to make him a visit, and I thought then what a good opportunity it would
be for you to see your first mountain. Now do you know what one I mean?"

"Oh yes," answered Reuben; "but you mean two, do'nt you? Mount Tom and Mount Holyoke. I learned
that in my geography. I can see it now in my book where it says that Mount Tom is twelve hundred
feet high, and Mount Holyoke one thousand feet high." But Bob Phelps said that there were lots
of Rattlesnakes on Mount Tom, so I should not dare to go there--but then--"

"Visitors don't go on Mount Tom proper, as there is no accomodation for them," interrupted
Mrs. Tracy, "but on Mount Holyoke there is the Prospect House, which your uncle said last summer
was a very well-kept house. Why, it is thirty-five years ago that I was on top of that mountain,
when, as a young girl, just a little older than you, I went with my father and mother. A Mr.
French had just taken the house. I wonder if he is there now. He seemed determined then to
do what he could for the place. I can hear him now telling my father that a spot which had
been such a favorite one for over two hundred years must have some superior claim upon the
people of his day. I really would love to go there again. It is one of those places which once
seen is never forgotten, and then I could'nt choose a better spot for your introduction to
a lovely mountain view. But, my child, it is getting late and time for you to go to bed. Run
along and I will write to your uncle to-night and accept his cordial invitation."

"And tell him" added Reuben, "that I wish every boy in this world had such a boss mother as
I have. Ned Bolton says so, too;" with which unique expression of love and gratitude he kissed
his mother "Good night" and went off to bed to dream of, well, what do you think? Of rattle-snakes,
of mountains, or even of geography? Oh, no! only nothing, for he was a healthy boy who said
he couldn't spare the time to dream.

After he had gone Mrs. Tracy sat alone for a while, thinking over this early visit of hers,
with all the precious memories which it suggested of her own father and mother, now dead and
gone. Then she thought over the past year's intimate life which she had enjoyed with her boy,
and became more and more thankful that she had been enabled thus to get up out of her selfish
grief of the summer before--when death took her other children from her--and empty her own
life into the larger channel of life around her. She was pleased to think of the good fruits
that had arisen from her plans for her boy's vacation trips, not only upon him but upon other
mothers who had been led to follow her example. She thought of the Christmas week she had spent
with him in Boston, where they had enjoyed so many interesting historical sights. And in the
few weeks of the vacation which was now passing, it pleased her to recall the delightful days
which they had spent at Concord and at Plymouth. And now, in this evening reverie, she smiled
as she thought of her boy's telling his geography class all about the Isles of Shoals. How
she would loved to have heard him--her fair-haired, blue-eyed boy, talking with all the intensity
of his nature of what he had seen. Ah! life had left much to her yet; and she determined anew
that Reuben should never want for any of her sympathetic help, either in his sports or in his
growing student life. With this renewed determination she went into the house to write her
letter to her brother at Northampton.

She was just finishing it when her husband came in from his weekly meeting with the city fathers.
She told him all her plan, which he heartily endorsed, and practically helped by taking out
his purse and giving her a generous sum of money for the trip, saying, "I wish, my dear, that
I could go too, but I cannot leave my business this season of the year. But I am only too glad
that I can make money enough for you and Reuben to go. I know of no better way to invest it
for the future of our boy, God bless him!

"Ah!" replied Mrs. Tracy, her face all aglow with the joy of having her own thought so fully
met, "would that more fathers thought so! but while some think only of a bank account, and
the great majority think nothing of any account at all, only the few know the need of a child's
mind digesting money, so to speak, as it goes along."

In a few days the arrangements were completed and Mrs. Tracy and her son left their home in
Salem for Northampton. Reuben quietly enjoyed the scenery all the way from Boston to Springfield.
In the forty minutes' ride from Springfield to Northampton Mrs. Tracy had a delightful opportunity,
which she well used, to show her boy the winding course of a river,--the beautiful Connecticut--as
they followed it first on one side and then on the other. When Reuben spied the house on Mount
Holyoke he realized then that he saw his first mountain. On making inquiries about the mountain
with a house on it, on the other side of the river, the conductor told him that that was Mount
Nonotuck, a peak of the Mount Tom range, which was nine hundred and fifty feet high. He also
told him that Nonotuck was the old Indian name for Northampton, which was just then coming
in sight.

On arriving at the station uncle Edward met them with his carriage to convey them to his home
on Round Hill. On their way there they passed the fine building of Smith College, which particularly
pleased Mrs. Tracy and caused her to say, partly to herself, "Happy, happy girls to have such
privileges of college life." "What," said Reuben, "girls go to college like boys? how funny!"
When, after a moment or two of seeming abstraction, he said: "That is what papa meant the other
day when he said that girls were as good as boys and could learn just as well as they could,
is'nt it?" But before Mrs. Tracy could answer him they had arrived at their destination.

The next day they took a drive around the town, or rather the city, since a short time before
it had become such. Its wealth of trees was a source of joy to them.

When they were crossing Mill River, on the old covered bridge on South street, uncle Edward
stopped and told them that this was the only bridge on the river which was saved from the awful
catastrophe of the bursting of the reservoir at Williamsburg, ten miles from there. When they
drove off the bridge he told Reuben to notice the river as it flowed so peacefully along, in
apparent forgetfulness of its dreadful havoc of ten years ago when about one hundred and fifty
lives were lost, and factories, houses, and churches were swept along, as so many leaves, by
the rushing torrent. He told, among other facts, how a cousin of his was seated at the breakfast-table
with his whole family--a wife, two sons, and a daughter--when they were swept up by the waters,
house and all, and all drowned. And while he was telling these incidents, which were so much
to him, he made them more effective by driving up some little distance through the district
which had been devastated. Thus Reuben learned of a peculiar tragedy, in a manner which no
reading in itself could so well have taught him.

They spent a day or two more in looking around the different public institutions, the Clarke
Institute for the Deaf, on Round Hill, giving them the most interest. But in spite of these
attractions, Mrs. Tracy's keen mother-eye noticed that Reuben was getting a little impatient
to climb a mountain, that mountain "with the tunnel" as he expressed it. So she decided to
go there the first pleasant day; and as it was now the time of full moon she proposed to remain
upon the mountain all night, much to Reuben's delight.

The next day proved to be pleasant, so they in company with Uncle Edward and his wife started
for Mount Holyoke, a distance of three miles. A short drive brought them to the Hokanum ferry
where they were to cross the Connecticut. As they drove upon what seemed to Reuben a wharf,
he, accustomed only to the Boston ferry-boats, remarked that the boat was not in yet. And it
was not until a moment later when he found himself moving away from the land that he discovered
that he was on the boat itself! The way in which they were being borne across the river by
man's use of the pulley and wire was a great novelty to the boy and could only suggest to his
mother the most primitive days.

It took them five minutes to cross--about eighty-five rods--after which a short drive through
a pretty country took them to the foot of the mountain. Then following a good carriage-road
they were soon at the half-way house where Reuben at last found the "tunnel" which had given
him so much wonder.

After examining the stationary engine at the foot of the inclined plane, in this wooden enclosure
which Reuben had called the tunnel, they seated themselves in the car and in two and a quarter
minutes were landed at the top, 600 feet higher.

Mrs. Tracy on going up felt a little fear which was overcome when her brother informed her
that Mr. French was always at the top with his watchful eye.

"Yes, that is so," said a voice as they stepped out of the car, and Mrs. Tracy was introduced
to the same Mr. French who was so much in earnest years ago when she visited the place to make
it a success.

They talked over the intervening years, Mr. French telling her of his improvements, how the
first railroad was built in 1854, and the present track was laid in 1867, and how more than
half a million people had been up over it.

He showed her a picture of the first house built there in 1821, then of the one rebuilt in
1851, which was gradually enlarged, until it became the present size in 1861, ten years later.

She was particularly interested to hear him tell of the famous people who had visited the place,
so much so, that he brought out for inspection some of the autograph books which filled a long
shelf. He said that there were names recorded as far back as 1824. As they looked them over
they saw at the date of August 12, 1847, in bold handwriting, "Charles Summer," with the testimony
that the view from Mount Holyoke was "surpassingly lovely."

At the sight of the clearly written name "Jenny Lind, Sweden," at the date of July 7, 1851,
Reuben exclaimed--"Oh, she was that big singer; mamma showed me the house on Round Hill where
she lived and was married."

That he should remember this fact pleased Mrs. Tracy while his boyish enthusiasm led Mr. French
to tell a pleasant little reminiscence of her visit there which was heartily enjoyed by them
all. And that others may have the pleasure of hearing it from him on his own premises I will
not repeat it here.

After a little further talk on the history of the place, in which Reuben learned that it was
named Holyoke in 1654 in honor of Captain Elizur Holyoke, they began to enjoy the lovely pictures
all around them.

It was fortunate for them that a heavy wind of the night before had taken away the clouds which
had for a time hidden the mountains farthest off. Hence they were now able to see distinctly
the Green Mountains in Vermont, Wachusett and Greylock in Massachusetts, and Monadnock in New
Hampshire.

As they spoke of the many little villages which gave the human interest to the scene, Mr. French
said that they could see from there thirty-two towns in Massachusetts and eight in Connecticut.

He adjusted the telescope so that they could easily tell the time on the clock at Smith College.
He adjusted it again and they saw the Amherst College buildings. Another adjustment revealed
Mount Holyoke Seminary at South Hadley; and in this way they saw the Armory at Springfield,
the Insane asylum at Northampton, and other well-known buildings.

A sight of the unique Front street in Old Hadley with its four rows of fine old shade trees
led Uncle Edward to promise his guests a drive through it before they should return to Salem.

The fine combination of meadow, river, hills and towns, as pictured through a colored reflecting
glass, was a delight indeed.

In one of the views, Reuben spied an island striped with cultivated fields which Mr. French
said was called Ox Bow; he pointed out another called Shepard's island, which, with Ox Bow,
added much to the scenery.

The winding river suggested to Mrs. Tracy how much nature loved a curve. While Uncle Edward,
who had visited the chief mountains in this land and in Europe, said that he always came back
to this mountain view as the loveliest and the most restful of them all, although it was not
the grandest or the most awe inspiring.

So the day passed on Mount Holyoke, giving them at every moment living pictures which no painter
could equal. When the sun went down the moon came up to give her light, and nature reveled
in her beauty.

The only painful shadow for Mrs. Tracy was when she felt sad that more of earth's troubled
ones did not or could not come to drink in such peace and rest.

But such days must come to an end. And what can follow more delightful than a refreshing sleep
on such a height. This they all had and were ready the next morning to return to Northampton.

As Reuben was anxious to count the steps which, on ascending the day before, he had noticed
on the side of the inclined plane; he went down that way, while the rest of the party availed
themselves of the car. He, boy-like, did not mind the extra labor and longer time which that
choice involved, so long as he found out that there were five hundred and twenty-two steps.

As they descended the mountain from the half-way house Reuben gathered for a souvenir some
of the beautiful laurel which, in full-bloom, was then adorning its sides.

A few days later after the promised ride to Old Hadley, three miles distant, which was extended
four miles to Amherst to give Reuben a sight of the college where his papa graduated, Mrs.
Tracy and her son returned to Salem. Mr. Tracy was highly entertained with Reuben's account
of what he had seen, and felt more than ever that his money had been well invested. The rest
of the vacation soon passed, the boy's active mind being profitably engaged in the interim
of active, healthful sports.

And it is highly probable that by this time the geography class, with Ned Bolton as spokesman,
has discovered that "Reuben Tracy knows more about a mountain than the geography itself!"

       *       *       *       *       *

GEMS FROM THE EASY CHAIR.

Christmas. There is nothing in the deepest and best sense human which in the truest and highest
sense is not also Christian. The characteristic feeling about Christmas, as it is revealed
in literature and tradition and association, is the striking and beautiful tribute to the practicability
of Christianity.

Sermons. It is doubtless very unjust to the clergy to suppose that they turn the barrel of
sermons to save themselves the trouble of writing new ones. Nothing but the levity of the pews
could be guilty of such a suspicion. The preacher knows that one squeezing does not take all
the juice out of an orange; and how much jucier a fruit is a good sermon! Moreover, the pews
are so pachydermatous, so rhinoceros-skinned, that nothing but an incessant pelting upon the
same spot makes an impression.

America. Whoever has seen a self-possessed and sagacious orator handling a tumultuous meeting
as Phoebus-Appollo handles his madly plunging steeds, has seen the symbol of popular government,
and understands why the sole fact of numerical force and brute power does not explain it. He
who watches the ocean rising into every bay and creek in obedience to celestial attraction,
sees in outward nature the law that governs the associated life of men, and which gives the
American people faith in their own government, whether they can give a reason, for their faith
or not.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATIONAL BANK FAILURES.

BY GEORGE H. WOOD.

Occasionally the attention of the daily press of the country is called to the provisions of
the National Banking Law by the announcement of the failure of some national banking association,
and immediately it teems with comments, and recommendations as to amendments which should be
made to render the law effective. These recommendations and comments usually show the most
lamentable ignorance, both as to the actual existing provisions of the law and its practical
working, and as regards banking matters generally. In the case of the failure of the Middletown
National Bank of New York, the advice which has been given in the columns of the press seems
of itself to be sufficient, if it had been given sooner, to have prevented the disaster. The
Directors have been blamed, very justly too, for they looked on while their President run them
into all its difficulties, and as usual the Bank Examiners have been held responsible for the
disaster. Some have even gone so far as to suggest that a provision be added to the National
Banking Laws punishing Examiners who do not detect irregularities in the banks which they examine.

The provisions of the National Bank Act as they now stand are as perfect, theoretically, as
they can be drawn, to protect both the depositors and the stockholders. The law provides for
the publication of sworn reports, from time to time, of the condition of each national bank.
These reports must be sworn to by the President, or Cashier, and their correctness must be
attested by the signatures of at least three Directors. These reports are required five times
a year and it is impossible to see how, if the Directors do their duty fully and honestly,
any delinquency on the part of the officers of the bank can fail to be detected by them. Under
the law, the stockholders elect the Directors, at least five in number. The officers of the
bank are elected or appointed by the directors and are subject to them. Thus far the protection
the Act provides is based upon what, so far as financial matters are concerned, is one of the
great controlling influences of human nature, viz: self-interest. The stockholders, in order
to protect themselves, are expected to elect Directors who will look out for the interests of all.

The sworn reports made to the Comptroller of the Currency are published in the newspapers where
the banks are located, and a copy sent to that officer that he may know that the law in this
respect has been complied with. The stockholders can inspect them at any time as they appear,
and can note any changes which occur in them from time to time. The stockholders are also at
perfect liberty to make any inquiries that they may deem fit, in any direction which their
intelligence may suggest to them.

In addition to the protection which the law gives to the stockholders, and also to the depositors,
by requiring the publication of reports of the condition of the national banks, Bank Examiners
are provided in the law; these Bank Examiners are appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency,
and make their examinations at any time that he may deem fit.

A Bank Examiner to afford perfect security for the real merit of his examination, has a disagreeable
duty to perform. He enters a bank, which by all the world is supposed to be well conducted
and solvent, and to be managed by honorable men, respected and looked up to by the whole community.
His position, however, is that of a Censor, and it does not permit him to assume what the world
supposes. On the contrary, to make a good examination, he must take nothing for granted, and
quietly act on the ground that something is wrong. "Suspicions are the sinews of the mind"
in this case, and an examiner without them cannot expect to detect mismanagement or defalcation.
The position requires tact as well as technical skill--tact not to offend unnecessarily or
disturb friendly relations, and skill to bring to light all that should be discovered--and
undoubtedly requires a high class of mind in the one that fills it well. Bank examinations
are not the only security provided in the law, and it is ridiculous to assert that the Directors,
stockholders and depositors should throw aside or neglect to use all the other means which
the law provides to enable them to protect themselves, and rely entirely upon the Government
examinations, which in the nature of things must depend for success on the sagacity of one
individual.

The framers of the National Bank Act, while they did all that they could to protect the depositors
and stockholders of national banks, as has been seen, were still not perfectly sure but that
failures might sometimes occur. This feeling doubtless arose from a knowledge on their part
of the weakness of human nature, and of the imperfections of systems of Government. That they
felt in this way, is indicated by the fact that they have provided, also, a method of protecting,
as far as possible, the depositors of national banks that do fail. They have provided for the
appointment of receivers and for a distribution, under Government control, of such assets as
can be collected from the wrecks of the failed banks. The stockholders of such banks are subject
to the penalty of being compelled to contribute, if the deficiency in the assets requires it,
an amount not exceeding the par value of the shares of stock held by them in addition to the
amount already invested in such shares, to the fund necessary to pay depositors. This of itself
would seem sufficient to be careful and place a live Board of Directors in charge of a large
fund, considering the manner the stockholders of the Pacific National Bank of Boston kicked
and squirmed when this provision of the law was applied.

The experience of the past has been that bank officers have concealed all their operations
from the proprietors, and when failures have occurred everybody has been astonished. As an
additional safeguard to meet this secrecy an organization has just been perfected in New York
which is a step farther in commercial agencies than has ever been attempted. From one of their
printed circulars it is ascertained that they propose to keep in pay a corps of detectives
and other agencies, "as a check upon defalcations and embezzlements by bank Presidents, and
Cashiers and other officials." But it is not exactly clear who will watch the detectives.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELIZABETH.

UNWELCOME NEWS.

June was doing its best to make the world content. Little clouds floated through the blue sky,
like the light sighs of a mood that must find some expression, and the air for all its softness
was invigorating, it was so full of life and purity. This day, like many another, needed only
to bring as fair hopes to the lives of those who looked into it as it did to the nature it
overbrooded to make the faces its light breezes fanned as bright as the skies were, with only
shadows of expression to give the brightness new beauty. But no such light was on Elizabeth
Royal's face as she sat at the open window of her room with a piece of delicate embroidery
in her hands. Her future had not opened out into life; the winter had killed its buds of promise.

After all, Stephen Archdale had not gone to England. His father and Governor Wentworth had
insisted that it was much wiser to send an older and a better business man. "Do you want to
make the best of your case?" the Colonel had asked incisively when Stephen hesitated. And the
young man had yielded, though reluctantly. It would have been so much easier for him to be
away and to be doing something. But at present he must think only of doing the wisest thing.

Elizabeth had not seen him; he had written to her father once, and had promised to write again
as soon as he had the slightest news. He had tried his best to be cheerful, and had sent her
a message that endeavored to be hopeful; but she saw that courtesy struggled with despair.
She knew that they need never meet; but if this thing were true--she could not believe it--but
if it were true, then happiness was over. Life in a June day has such possibilities of happiness;
and that morning her eyes grew so misty that she took a few wrong stitches in her work, and
as footsteps drew near the room, perceived this and began to pick them out with nervous haste.
She had not finished, however, when Mrs. Eveleigh came in. As Elizabeth had expected, her first
remark was a comment.

"What! another mistake, my dear? You know you made one only yesterday, and you can work so
beautifully when you give your mind to it. It is a bad plan to have such a dreamy way with
one. For my part, I should think you would have had enough of doing things in dreams and never
knowing what they will end in. You would better wake up for the rest of your life."

As Elizabeth had heard the same remark numberless times before, its effect was not startling.
In silence she went on picking out her stitches.

"Why not say you think so, too? It would be more dutiful in you," continued Mrs. Eveleigh.

"You take care that I am waked up," returned Elizabeth. "You don't leave one many illusions."

"I hope not. What is the use of illusions?"

"Yes, what?"

"Well, Elizabeth, it is not I that have disturbed them this time; you must thank him for that."

"Him?"

"Yes, he has come. I have just been leaning over the banisters, and saw him come in." Elizabeth
did not look dreamy now. "He did not come forward at all in the modest, charming way of the
other one, which you know irresistably wins hearts," went on Mrs. Eveleigh; "he marched along
straight into the parlor and asked to see you, just as if he owned the house and all that was
in it. So he does own somebody in it, I am afraid, poor child."

The girl's face was white, her violet eyes looked black and shadowed by heavy lines.

"Is it--?" she began.

"Oh, yes, my dear, it is your husband. He has come to claim you, no doubt. If he cannot get
the wife he wants, he will have somebody at the head of his table. And, then, my dear, you
know you are an heiress, not a person of no account."

"Nonsense," returned the other; "the marriage is not proven. He may have come with news."

At this moment a servant brought up Archdale's card. On it he had written a line begging to
see her. Elizabeth showed it to her companion.

"See," she said, "you are mistaken. Probably we are free, and he wants to tell me of it first,--first
of anyone here, I mean. That is not arbitrary, nor as you said, at all."

"Very well, dear; only, don't crow till you are out of the woods. Would you like to have me
receive him with you?"

Elizabeth hesitated.

"No. I thank you," she said. "You are very kind, but perhaps it would be better to go by myself."

"As you like." And Mrs. Eveleigh's pride laid a strong hand upon her swelling curiosity, so
that with an indifference well acted she sat down to her work. But as she lost the sound of
Elizabeth's step on the stairs she rose again and looked breathlessly over the banisters, trying
to catch the greeting that went on in the room below. But either through accident, or because
the girl knew the character of her companion, the door closed behind Elizabeth, and Mrs. Eveleigh
heard nothing. If she had done so, the greeting was so simple that she would have gained from
it no clue of what was to follow. Archdale came forward, bowed low, and held out his hand to
her as simply as Katie's husband might have greeted Katie's friend, and possibly have brought
her some message. Elizabeth felt this as she laid her hand in his for a moment, a smile of
relief and anticipation came over her face; and in reply to his question she answered: "Yes,
we are all well, thank you." It was after the first moment that the embarrassment began, when
at her look of hope and questioning his eyes fell a moment, and when raised again gave no answer
to it. Both realized then how hard fate had been to them. But even yet Elizabeth would not
quite give up the cause. She steadied herself a little by her hand on the back of the chair
before she sat down in it, asking with the smile still on her lips, but not spontaneous as before.

"You have brought good news?"

"No," he said. "I am afraid you will not call it good news." He looked away as he spoke, but
after a moment turned toward her, and their eyes met. Each read the meaning in the other's
face too plainly to make reserve as to the real state of things possible. "The cause of all
this cruel delay is explained at last," he went on. "The Sea-Gull on her way back to England
was wrecked. All Bolston's papers are lost. He had a fever brought on by cold and exposure,
and after he had lain for weeks in an Irish inn, he waked into life with scarcely his sense
of identity come back to him. He writes that he has begun to recover himself, however, and
that by the time we send the papers again, new copies, he shall be able to attend to the business
as well as ever. For our work, he might as well be at the bottom of the sea."

Elizabeth turned pale.

"When did you learn this?" she asked.

"A fortnight ago. I ought to have told you of it before, but I hated to pain you."

She looked at him firmly. Then smiled a little through her paleness.

"Yes, it does pain me," she said. "But I don't despair. We are not married, you and I, Mr.
Archdale, and I wish Katie would throw aside her nonsensical scruples. What matter whether
Mr. Harwin was a minister? Why will she not let it go that it was all fun, and marry you? I
think she ought."

"I think so, too," he said. He did not add his suspicions that Katie was acting upon the covert
suggestions of his father which had so disturbed her conscience that she declared she must
be satisfied that the whole thing was a falsehood of Harwin's.

"I wish we could find him," said Elizabeth.

"So do I", answered Archdale under his breath. She looked at him quickly and away again, feeling
that her last wish had not been a wise one. "Yet" pursued Archdale, "you see that if Harwin's
story is false, the whole matter drops there, and that would make it simpler, to say the least
of it. Katie does not like the idea of having the court obliged to decide about it. She says
it seems like a divorce."

Elizabeth flushed.

"Do I like it?" she said. "But anything is better than this."

"Yes," he answered, then seemed as if he would like to take back his frank confession. She
smiled at him.

"Don't try to soften it, Mr. Archdale. We both mean that. You speak honestly because you are
honest and understand what I want, too; because you are wise enough to believe in the absurdity
of this whole affair."

"You did not think it absurd at first," he answered.

"I was overwhelmed. I had no time to consider."

"No," he said, "only time to feel."

"Don't speak of that day," and she shuddered. "If I were to live a thousand years, there never
could be another so horrible."

He had risen to go. He stood a moment silent. Then:

"You are so reassuring," he said. "Yet, how can either of us be assured? Perhaps you are my wife."

"Never," she said, and looked at him with a sudden coldness in her face.

"If a minister has married us," he answered, "nobody has yet unmarried us."

The gravity of her expression impressed him.

"God has not married us," she said. "I shall never admit that." There was a moment's silence.
"Poor Katie!" she added.

"Yes, poor Katie,--and Mistress Royal."

Elizabeth smiled sadly.

"You remember that?" she asked. "It would not be strange if you forgot everybody but Katie,
and yourself."

"It would be strange if I forgot you, since you are,--what you are."

"I foresee," she answered, "that we shall be good friends. By and by, when you and Katie are
well established in your beautiful new house I shall visit you there; Katie invited me long
ago, and you and I are going to be good friends."

CHAPTER XII

PERPLEXITIES.

Although Elizabeth had been so brave before Archdale, yet as soon as he had gone she sank into
her chair and covered her face with her hands, as if by this she could shut out the visions
of him from her mind. She lived in the land of the Puritans, and Indiana had not been discovered.
She knew that those words which ought to have been so sacred but which she had spoken so lightly
were no longer light to her, but that in the depths of her heart they weighed like lead and
gave her a sense of guilt that she could not throw off. Even if they proved nothing in law,
they had already brought a terrible punishment, and if,--if--. With a low cry she started up.
Life had grown black again. But she was not accustomed to give way to emotions, still less
to forebodings. In a few moments she went back to her embroidery, and to Mrs. Eveleigh.

Archdale left Mr. Royal's house with a new comprehension of the woman he had married in jest.
Somehow, he had always considered that Katie and he were really the only sufferers. Young,
petted, rich, and handsome, it had not come forcibly home to him before, however much his courtesy
might have assumed it, that this young woman whom, though he thought she did well enough, he
had no high opinion of, could actually suffer in the idea of being his wife. But he saw it
now through all her brave bearing, and his vanity received its death-wound that morning.

Three days afterwards he was at Katie's home; he tried to feel that he had the old right to
visit her. "Your friend is so brave," he said, "she puts courage into me. Katie, why don't
you feel so, too?"

"Ah!" said the girl looking at him tearfully, "how can you ask that? It is she who has the
right to you, and I have not."

"She wants it as little as mortal can," he answered. "I think except as your betrothed she
does not even like me very well, although she was so kind when I came away." And he repeated
Elizabeth's parting prophesy.

"She and I are the two extremes," returned the girl. "If Mr. Harwin is a minister, it will
seem to me, as I told you, just as if you and Elizabeth had been divorced."

"Nonsense, love, you cannot separate what has never been joined together." He kissed away the
tears that brimmed over from Katie's eyes. Yet as he did so, he was not sure that he had the
right to do it, for the shadow of another woman seemed to come between them. He had confessed
his dread to Elizabeth, but to this girl it was impossible; to her he must be all confidence.
How different were these two women toward whom he stood in such peculiar relations, betrothed
to one, possibly married to the other. If this last were true which of them would suffer the
more? A week ago his imagination would not have seized upon Elizabeth's feelings at all; now
he was convinced that it would be no less hard for her than for Katie; hard through her friendship
and her pride. But this one's tender little heart would break. After all, it was only of her
that he could think. The waiting was growing unendurable. Yet he felt that his father was right
when he said that the easiest way, the shortest in the end, was to prove if possible that Harwin's
story of his vocation was fabricated. Indeed, there was no case for appeal to the Court unless
that were established. Let that fall through, and the lovers were free to marry.

"Have you heard" he asked after a time, "that Sir Temple and Lady Dacre have written that they
are coming to visit us,--us, Katie? You remember they had an invitation to our wedding,--they
shall have another, dearest,--and could not come then, but they propose paying us a visit in
our own home at Seascape where they suppose we are living now, you and I. I told you about
my staying with them in England and asking them to visit me when I was married. I was thinking
then of my chances of being engaged to you, Katie."

"Yes, you told me of them," she said, and after a pause added, "You will have to write them
the truth."

"It is too late for that to do any good. They follow close on the heels of the letter; that
is, by the next ship."

"Then I suppose Aunt Faith will take them, either at your father's, or at Seascape. Which will
it be, Stephen?"

"That house! It can never be opened until you do it, Katie; you know that well enough."

The girl sighed. Yet with all the sadness of her lot it was delightful to be loved and mourned
over in this way; mourned over, and yet perhaps not lost.

"I don't know about that being the best way," she returned slowly. "You know Stephen, Uncle
Walter is peculiar, and you could not entertain your guests yourself; you would not have freedom.
Really, it would not be quite as nice for you."

"Always thinking of me," he cried. "It seems now that the only freedom I care about is the
freedom to make you my wife, Katie."

"Yes," she sighed again and was silent a moment. Then she said, "But Stephen, if Aunt Faith
is there, you know it won't be like anybody else, and you can show them the house I am going
to have. Do you believe that?" she broke out suddenly. "Do you really believe that? This uncertainty
is killing me--don't imagine that I could not wait for years, I am not dying for you, Stephen;
I should not do such a thing, of course. But not to know! I must know soon; life is unendurable
under such a strain."

"Poor little girl, she was not made, surely, to bear suffering," thought Archdale. And he went
away assured that she was most of all to be pitied, that she was least protected from the North
wind which was blowing against them all three. As to the house, she should certainly have her
way about it. He saw that she was sacrificing her own feelings for him. She did not understand
that it was making matters a great deal harder, she thought that she was making it pleasanter
for him. Well, she should have the satisfaction of believing she had done so. It did not occur
to him that the girl had taken the most effectual way of awaking a sentimental interest in
the persons who were imagining that they were to be her guests. Katie was one of those people
who illustrate the use of the velvet glove, for in spite of her sprightliness, she was considered
the gentlest little creature in the Colonies.

CHAPTER XIII.

OVER THE THRESHOLD.

Florence, Lady Dacre, with her hand on Archdale's arm walked across the plank from ship to
shore, her husband on the other side of her and her maid following with Sir Temple's valet,
who was devotedly carrying all the bundles, and interspersing his useful attentions with auguries
as to the "hignorance of the Hamerican Colonies." Lady Dacre walked on with a light step, and
eyes that took note of every thing.

"So, this is Boston?" she said. "I have always wanted to see it. You will think me in fun,
but really, do you know, it has an odd sort of aggressive look to me! We imagine a certain
humility in Colonies, but your people are more English than Englishmen. That is your carriage,
there on the pier? How kind in you to come for us. And that is your coachman? Now, even he
has a look that, on the whole, he is as good as you."

"He does not feel so," returned Archdale, smiling.

"Oh, no, I suppose not; it must be the exhilirating air that gives people that appearance.
Such a sky as there is to-day! Do you have beautiful weather like this all the time?"

"No, sometimes we have a thunder shower."

Sir Temple laughed.

"Good enough for you, Florence," he cried. "What are you so absurd for?"

"For fun. I suppose you know Governor Shirley?" she added after an instant.

"Slightly. But he is an intimate friend of Mr. Royal,--one of my father's friends."

"Ah! yes. Well, what is the difference?"

"Then, last year," said Sir Temple, "we met some people in London." He named several whom Archdale
knew.

"And there are two others here now," cried Lady Dacre, "or perhaps I ought not to say two persons,
but one and his shadow. People call him a reckless sort of a fellow--the man, not the shadow,--but
I think him charming. It is Mr. Edmonson, the best whist player I ever saw."

"And Lord Bulchester?"

"Ah! you know them. Perhaps we are going to meet them at your house? That will be delightful."

"Lady Dacre has a perfect passion for whist," explained her husband.

"You will certainly meet them there if they will do me the honor to become my guests," returned
Archdale. Then something that he had heard came back to him, and brought a sudden frown to
his face, but it was too late to retract. So, after he had made his friends comfortable at
an inn, for they were to dine before starting on their journey, he wrote his invitation and
dispatched it by his servant with instructions to bring back an answer. "If the rumor I heard
is true, he will not accept," he said to himself.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL,

MADISON SQUARE, NEW YORK.

The Largest, Best Appointed, and Most Liberally Managed Hotel in the City, with the Most Central
and Delightful Location.

HITCHCOCK, DARLING & CO., Proprietors.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARNES' BRIEF HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES.

FOR SCHOOLS.

MORE EXTENSIVELY USED THAN ANY OTHER AMERICAN SCHOOL HISTORY.

Its claims to superiority are thus referred to:--

1. Brevity. The text, other than appended national documents and the census of 1880, makes
but 303 pages; and is within the most limited period allowable for instruction in American history.

2. Comprehensiveness. Has the pith of all large histories. See example, "English explorations,"
pages 34-39.

3. Arrangement. By six epochs; each followed by a chronological summary, a list of choice reference
and reading books, and a sketch of national territorial development during the epoch considered.

4. Footnotes. With biographies of persons referred to in text. See Columbus, page 20; Raleigh,
page 36; Putnam, page 108; Lafayette, page 119; Franklin, page 127; Pulaski, page 129; Jackson,
page 175; Adams, page 154; Buchanan, page 196; Garfield, page 300.

5. Dates. Given in text, and associated with that and the footnotes.

6. Impartiality. All sectional, partisan, or denominational views are avoided.

7. Maps. Elegant, distinct, and colored. See "Early discoveries," page 18, and pages 100-149, etc.

8. Illustrations. Numerous, well suited, and artistic.

9. Questions. At back of book, respecting each epoch.

10. Historical Recreations. Questions that bring out the historic biography, and especially
fix characters, events, and places, in the minds of youth.

A complete index closes the volume.

Copy mailed, for examination, on receipt of $1.00.

A.S. BARNES & CO., Nos. 111 and 113 William St., New York City.

       *       *       *       *       *

A POPULAR HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATED

In One Superb Royal Octavo Volume of 800 Pages, Illustrated with 320 Wood Engravings and 14
Steel Plates.

From the discovery of America to the accession of President Arthur.

(A choice Reference Book for Teachers in the use of Barnes' Brief United States School History.)

OUTLINE.

PART I. Mound Builders; Colonial Settlement; Explorations; Conflicts; Manners; Customs; Education;
Religion, etc. etc. Political differences with Great Britain.

PART II. Resistance to the Acts of Parliament; Resentment of British Policy, and the War for
American Independence.

PART III. From the Election of President Washington to that of Lincoln; The Expansion and Growth
of the Republic; Domestic Issues and Foreign Policy.

PART IV. The Civil War and the End of Slavery.

PART V. The New Era of the Restored Union; Measures of Reconstruction; the Decade of Centennial
Jubilation, and the Accession of President Arthur.

APPENDIX. Declaration of Independence; The Constitution of the United States and its Amendments;
Chronological Table and Index; Illustrated History of the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia.

DISTINGUISHING FEATURES.

The political characteristics of great leaders and great parties have been dealt with so as
to meet the approval of all sections of the American people. The progress of Science, Invention,
Literature, and Art, are noted, as well as that of the national physical growth, thus condensing
material which usually fills several volumes, and all narrated in a graphic and entertaining
style. OUTLINE MAPS give the successive stages of national expansion, and special attention
has been given to those battles, by land and sea, which have marked the military growth of
the Republic.

SPECIAL PRICES.

Cloth, plain edge, $3.50. Cloth, richly embossed, gilt edges, $4.50. Sheep, marble edge, $5.00.
Half Morocco, $6.00.

The work will be sent to any address, prepaid, on receipt of price.

A.S. BARNES & CO., 111 and 113 William St., New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALDEN & LASSIG, DESIGNERS AND BUILDERS OF

Wrought Iron and Steel Work for Bridges and Buildings,

Office and Works, Rochester, N.Y. (Lessees Leighton Bridge Works.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GOODWIN GAS STOVE AND METER CO.

MANUFACTURERS OF

The Sun Dial Gas Cooking and Heating Stoves.

The most economical in use. Over fifty different kinds. Suitable for Families, Hotels, Restaurants,
and Public Institutions. Laundry, Hatters', and Tailors' Heaters. Hot-Plates, Warming-Closets
for Pantries, Hot-Water Generators, etc. etc.

1012-1018 Filbert Street, Philadelphia.

142 Chambers Street, Hew York.

126 Dearborn Street, Chicago.

Waldo Bros., Agents, 88 Water Street, Boston, Mass.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAMPAIGN POST!

SUBSCRIBE FOR THE

Boston Daily Post

FOR THE CAMPAIGN.

July 1 to December 1, 5 MONTHS, ONLY $3. Strictly in Advance.

ARTHUR P. DODGE,

Attorney and Counsellor at Law,

NOTARY PUBLIC,

COMMISSIONER FOR NEW HAMPSHIRE,

Has removed his office from No. 23 COURT STREET to

31 Milk Street, Room 46, Boston, Mass.

Business Manager Bay State Monthly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Life and Public Services of James G. Blaine, published at Augusta, Maine, his home. By the
renowned biographer and historian, Colonel Russell H. Conwell, whose Life of President Garfield
outsold the twenty others by sixty thousand copies. Mr. Blaine, his friends and his relatives
co-operated with the publishers in order that the volume might be most complete and correct
in all particulars. The Augusta, Maine, edition is the standard Life of Blaine. The people
of this locality will directly be called on by the agent of the book; it is having a tremendous
sale.

A Standard Volume.--Col. Russell H. Conwell's admirable biography of James G. Blaine has just
been issued from a large publishing house in Augusta, Maine, his home. It is accepted as THE
STANDARD work, and is thorough and complete. Colonel Conwell is better fitted for writing such
a book than any other man in America, and all his earnestness, knowledge, and ability, will
be found in the volume. Mr. Blaine, his relatives, and friends, co-operated with the author,
and kindly gave him access to the fullest data and information. It is a large, handsome, illustrated
volume, and is sold at a remarkably low price. An agent is now taking orders among the people
of this locality.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOBBS, GORDON & CO.'S

Concord Suspended Radial Drill,

AND FULL SWING DRILL.

CONCORD, N.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stanley & Usher,

  171 Devonshire St.
  Boston, Mass.

STEREOTYPERS AND ELECTROTYPERS,

PRINTERS.

Book, Job, Magazine and Catalogue.

ESTIMATES CHEERFULLY GIVEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wait for the authentic, Augusta, Maine, edition. You want no other. It is a large, handsome
volume, of upwards of 500 pages, contains steel-plate portraits of both Blaine and Logan, and
a large number of general illustrations. Colonel Conwell has great fame as a biographer. An
agent for the book will soon be around; those who are wise will subscribe for this edition
only. Price $1.50 and $1.75.

The authentic Life and Public Services of James G. Blaine, by the well-known Col. Russell H.
Conwell, is having a most remarkable and phenomenal sale. It is from the well-known publishing
house of E.C. Allen & Co., of Augusta, Maine, the home of the distinguished candidate for President
of the United States. The book is splendidly illustrated, and is thorough and complete. An
agent for the volume will soon visit the people of this locality for their orders. Wait for
the Augusta edition; subscribe for no other.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLERMONT.

TO ALL WANTING WINTER HOMES AND FARMS.

The most delightful and salubrious climate in the United States is to be found in the HIGHLANDS
OF FLORIDA, called by some the "APOPKA MOUNTAINS," in the beautiful clear water Lake Region.

CLERMONT is located on gently rolling land, between Lakes Minnehaha and Minneola, in Sumter
County, Florida. Soil highly productive. Amongst the best in the State for the raising of Oranges,
Limes, Lemons, Bananas, Pineapples, STRAWBERRIES, and all kinds of EARLY VEGETABLES.

PRICES OF LAND.--Farm Land, $20 per acre, and upwards; Lake Fronts, $50 per acre, and upwards;
Town Lots, 50 x 150 feet, $100 and upwards, according to location, AND ON EASY TERMS.

THE SOIL

Is in great part a rich, sandy loam, and is suitable for raising fruits and vegetables. These
lands are situated south of the so-called FROST LINE, and you can market your fruit and vegetables
raised thereon as early as can be done from any other portion of Florida, and earlier than
can be done from any other State in the Union.

HEALTH.

THE HEALTHIEST location in the State. Good health is an essential thing in the profitable cultivation
of a farm or garden, and the richest soil in the world may yield very poorly if the settler
is unable to expend upon it his labor on account of chills and fever or malaria. NO WINTER
to delay your work.

PLANT YOUR VEGETABLES IN OCTOBER and November, and commence to send your produce to market
in February. THREE CROPS CAN BE RAISED IN A YEAR from the same piece of ground.

THE CLIMATE

IS DELIGHTFUL: flowers bloom the year round in the open air. THE SUMMERS in this high land
are NO WARMER than in the North. The thermometer rarely indicates higher than ninety degrees.

THE MILDNESS OF THE CLIMATE and its bracing influence marks its excellence for all PULMONARY
AFFECTION, THROAT AILMENT, ASTHMA, RHEUMATISM, KIDNEY TROUBLES, etc. Chills and fever and malaria
are unknown.

A living can be made by the cultivation of vegetables while the orange-groves are being brought
into bearing. Our water protection is unsurpassed, which makes it the choicest locality in
the State for the fruit-grower.

Building material is plenty and cheap. Fish and game in abundance. Good schools and churches
will be established at once. Clermont is to be made an educational centre.

It is expected that the Florida Southern Railroad will be built very near, if not through,
the town within the next few months. Come and see the place and its natural advantages. It
will speak for itself. A first-class sawmill has already been erected, and is in operation.

A GOOD INVESTMENT,

And the safest thing in hard times, is to have an Orange-Grove. This can be acquired by buying,
say ten acres of land, at a small cost, say $200. Clear it up and set out your orange-grove,
and while your orange-trees are maturing, raise strawberries and early vegetables, and send
to the Northern market; these always bring high prices in February and March; or work at your
trade or engage in business. In a new country you can always find something to do. Start yourself
a home. When you have a five-acre orange-grove in full bearing you can be independent, and
need not care whether stocks go up or down. THE RISE IN THE VALUE OF YOUR LANDS will make your
investment a PROFITABLE ONE. INVESTMENTS IN REAL ESTATE seem to be the important feature which
generally decides a man's prosperity. Such investments are secure and permanent, and not liable
to the fluctuations that personal property is subject to.

VISITORS will be shown over the land in a carriage free of expense. Those who come with a view
to settle, should bring money to secure their purchases as locations are not held upon refusal.

Large numbers of people are purchasing and preparing Winter Homes, and those who desire the
best locations should visit the place at once.

The Titles to these lands are indisputable; Warrantee Deeds given clear of all incumbrances.

Information given. Letters promptly answered. If persons before visiting the place will write,
full information will be sent concerning the route and other particulars. Address,

THE CLERMONT IMPROVEMENT COMPANY,

Minneola, Sumter County, Florida, or

WILLIAM A. HOUSE, Vineland, N.J.

Reference, by permission, to ARTHUR P. DODGE, No. 31 Milk Street (Room 4b), Boston, where maps
can be seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

STEWART MANUFACTURING COMPANY,

MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN

Household, Office, and Store Furniture

INCORPORATED AUGUST 20, 1884.

Capital Stock   $250,000

Number of Shares    50,000

Par Value, $5.00 each.

FULL PAID AND UNASSESSABLE.

OFFICERS:

President and General Manager, R. McLEAN, Boston.

Treasurer, J.R. O'HARA, 31 State Street, Boston,

BENJ. RACKLIFF, Architect and Designer, Boston.

Factory and Principal Office, 43 Beverly Street, Boston.

GENERAL PURPOSES.

This Company has been incorporated for the purpose of manufacturing Household, Office, and
Store Furniture with the view of making a specialty of certain grades of goods over which it
will have entire control, thus avoiding the direct competition incident to the general trade.
Yet it will to a limited extent handle a general line of goods common to this class of business.

Management.--The management of the Company will be in the hands of those well known and experienced
in the business, as practical furniture makers and able financiers, whose standing will bear
the closest investigation for high moral and business character.

Mirrors and Mantels.--This business now becomes one of the branches of the Company, by purchase
on highly favorable terms, and which at once enables it to possess a business of profit and
thoroughly established, and ensures an income which places the Company at once on a dividend-paying
basis.

Display Racks.--In addition, the Company has secured in like manner the entire control of these,
the most valuable articles of store furniture that have ever been put on the market, and which
have already received substantial recognition of their value and demand among merchants and
traders throughout New England. This business has likewise become already established, and
only requires the usual attention of standard goods to ensure a large and profitable income.

Factory.--The Company will for the present retain its factory on Beverly Street, which is well
supplied with every facility for a large business, and in due time will secure proper warerooms
in some desirable locality near the centre of trade in Boston.

Business Outlook.--Considering the outlook of the manufacturing interests for the coming year,
investors are all agreed that whichever party may triumph in the approaching presidential election,
the incoming administration will practically stand committed to a vigorous policy of encouragement
and support to our manufacturing interests. Hence our far-seeing capitalists are wisely counting
on a remarkable activity in this branch of industrial development; and consequently are predicting
such a boom in manufacturing stocks the coming year as characterized mining stocks during the
years of '78, '79, and '80.

Our Stock as an Investment.--That the Stewart Manufacturing Company's Stock will commend itself
to the careful consideration of the most conservative investors there can be no questions,
for the reason that it starts off on a dividend-paying business, founded upon a line of specialties
over which it has supreme control. Thus, being entirely free from those leading contingencies
which invariably surround the career of by far the majority of those establishments which venture
into the arena of mercantile contest, depending chiefly on their wits to successfully compete
with their associates in trade, therefore our stock must surely meet the wishes of investors,
as not only a profitable, but a SAFE investment.

Southern Trade.--The Company will, as soon as practicable, establish agencies in the South,
where it feels confident an extensive demand for our goods awaits the advent of our agents.

Foreign Trade.--It is expected that, within a few days, contracts will he concluded with one
of our largest exporting houses for the sale of the entire surplus product of the Company for
shipment to various foreign ports, thus enabling the Company to shield itself from the embarrassments
incident to overproduction and dull home trade.

We only ask, and earnestly invite, a careful and impartial investigation into the merits of
our stock and business to ensure a confirmation of our claims.

For further information the public is referred to any of the officers of the Company.

It is a matter of congratulation that our Company has already received substantial tokens of
confidence from the capitalists of New England, a goodly number of whom are now included in
our list of stockholders, rendering our ability to compete for business equal to the best.

J.R. O'HARA, Treasurer,

31 Milk Street (Room 13), Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

The

Vineland Sanitarium,

VINELAND, N.J.

Most Desirable Location and Institution in the United States for Invalids of all kinds. Conducted
by

HORACE BOWEN, M.D.

And a Corps of Able Assistants.

Our treatment has been successful to a marked degree in the cure of all forms of disease, and
we offer the best opportunities for the recovery of all who may seek our aid.

In addition to the use of the best-known remedial agencies, diet and regimen, there is also
brought to bear a wholly new and wonderfully efficacious System of Cure.

Accommodations first-class in every respect. Terms reasonable.

Circulars with full information sent on application.

THE VINELAND SANITARIUM,

VINELAND, NEW JERSEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

WINTER RESORT.

34 Miles South from Philadelphia and 115 Miles Southwest from New York.

BAKER HOUSE,

VINELAND, N.J.

S.R. FOWLER, Proprietor.

TERMS:--$2.00 per Day, Transient; and $7.00 to $10.00 per Week, Permanent.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE!

The subscribers will note the fact that the October number commences the Second Volume of THE
BAY STATE MONTHLY. On account of unavoidable delays, the months of July, August, and September,
were allowed to pass without issuing the Magazine. Hereafter, it is confidently predicted,
the Magazine will be issued regularly and promptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Permanent and Profitable Positions.

  By an old and prominent Life Company,

  A FEW ENERGETIC AND RESPONSIBLE MEN,

  WHO WILL DEVOTE THEIR ENTIRE TIME TO THE BUSINESS,

  TO ACT AS GENERAL AGENTS.

  TO SUCH MEN RARE INDUCEMENTS WILL BE OFFERED, COMBINING GUARANTEE.

All policies non-forfeiting and non-contestable by their own conditions after three payments.
Endowment policies at Life rates, new and popular plans.

Experience Not Necessary,

But experienced and successful men who desire to change will find it greatly to their interest
to correspond with us before making any arrangements.

       *       *       *       *       *

LIBRARY BUREAU,

MANUFACTURERS OF

LIBRARY AND OFFICE

Labor-Saving Fittings and Supplies.

We make over two hundred devices solely to help readers and writers, librarians, authors, and
all who work at the desk, accomplish the most possible with time and strength.

THE ONLY HOUSE IN THE WORLD DEVOTED SOLELY TO THIS WORK.

To any one of systematic habits of thought and record, our illustrated catalog of the best
appliances, etc., containing also many labor-saving methods and directions for use, is most
interesting and valuable. Sample pages Free. Full catalog (nearly ready) of 120 pages, classified
and indext, post free, for 15 cents.

  LIBRARY BUREAU,
  32 HAWLEY STREET, BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

FALL RIVER LINE

Between BOSTON and NEW YORK,

Via NEWPORT and FALL RIVER.

World-renowned Steamers "PILGRIM" and "PROVIDENCE."

The Great Route between WASHINGTON, BALTIMORE, PHILADELPHIA, BOSTON, and Newport, Fall River,
NEW YORK, Lowell, Fitchburg, Taunton, New Bedford, Plymouth, Cape Cod, Nantucket, Martha's
Vineyard; Portland, Bangor, Me.; White Mountains; Mount Desert, and Principal Points and Pleasure
Resorts of New England and the Provinces.

Leave BOSTON, from OLD COLONY DEPOT. Cor. South and Kneeland Sts., at 6.00 P.M., (Steamboat
Express). Leave NEW YORK, from PIER 28, NORTH RIVER, foot of Murray St. at 5.30 P.M., in Summer:
4.30 P.M., in Winter. SUNDAY NIGHT LINE (Summer only), Leave BOSTON at 7.00 P.M. Leave NEW
YORK at 5.30 P.M. ANNEX CONNECTION TO AND FROM BROOKLYN AND JERSEY CITY.

ONLY 49 MILES OF RAIL

BETWEEN BOSTON AND NEW YORK. TRAINS EQUIPPED WITH THE WESTINGHOUSE AUTOMATIC BRAKE AND MILLER
PLATFORM.

NO NIGHT CHANGES

GEO. L. CONNOR, Gen Pass. Agent O.C.S.B. CO., NEW YORK. BORDEN & LOVELL, Agents O.C.S.B. CO.,
NEW YORK. J. SPRAGUE, Jr., Gen. Pass. Agent O.C.R.R. CO. BOSTON. J.R. KENDRICK, Gen. Manager,
BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONCORD STEAM-HEATING COMPANY

MANUFACTURERS OF

Patent Low-Pressure, Self-Regulating,

STEAM-HEATING APPARATUS,

INCLUDING

SHEET IRON RADIATORS AND

RAPID CIRCULATING TUBE BOILERS.

Patented May 11, 1880.--R. Oct. 24, 1882.--V. Jan. 30, 1883.--R. Jan. 30, 1883.--B.

HOBBS, GORDON & CO., PROPRIETORS,

SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF

THE CONCORD SUSPENDED RADIAL DRILL,

FULL SWING.

Patent Portable Steam Boilers and Radiators for Heating Stores and Dwelling-Houses.

THE H.G. SAW-BENCH.

Send for Circulars. 16mo., cloth, $1.50. Harper & Brothers, New York.

This book has had a large sale and has attracted much attention. It is well worth the reading,
not only for the plot, but for the study of customs and manners of the olden time.

HIMSELLUF, 12mo., paper, 15 cents. Charles H. Whiting, Boston.

An American poem of unusual merit and great interest.

THE STORY OF A COUNTRY TOWN. By E.W. HOWE; 12mo., cloth, $1.50. James R. Osgood & Co., Boston.

An American novel, whose scenes are located on the rolling prairies of the West. It is a strong
and thrilling story, which bids fair to become a classic.

MISS LUDINGTON'S SISTER, a Romance of Immortality. By EDWARD BELLAMY, author of "Six to One;
A Nantucket Idyl," etc.; 12mo., cloth, $1.50. James R. Osgood & Co., Boston.

THE ADVENTURES OF A WIDOW. A novel by EDGAR FAWCETT, author of "A Gentleman of Leisure," etc.;
12mo., cloth. James R. Osgood & Co., Boston. By CAROLINA C. LEIGHTON, [formerly of Newburyport];
12mo., cloth, $1.50. Lee & Shepard, Boston. Illustrated; 12mo., cloth, 1.50. D. Lothrop & Co.,
Boston.

WIDE AWAKE, volume 18; [December 1883, May 1884.] D. Lothrop &Co.

This publication has won for itself a great fame among children all over the world; $5.00 will
pay for the Bay State Monthly and Wide Awake for one year.

MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES, by MRS. JOHN SHERWOOD, author of "A Transplanted Rose;" 16mo., cloth,
$1.00. Harper & Brothers, New York.

THE HEARTHSTONE, FARM AND NATION; $2.00 per year. W.H. Thompson & Co., 404 Arch Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., publishers.

A monthly journal in the interests of domestic and rural economy, agriculture, horticulture,
live stock, current events, education, etc. Its sixteen pages nicely edited, printed and illustrated,
deserve a cordial welcome to the domestic fireside.

MEXICAN RESOURCES AND GUIDE TO MEXICO, by FREDERICK A. OBER. Boston: 1884, Estes & Lauriat;
price 50 cents.

An elegantly printed and illustrated book in pamphlet form as a supplemental volume to "Travels
in Mexico." The first part contains a map of Mexico and fifty-seven pages replete with valuable
historical and statistical information, while the latter part (35 pages) is devoted to such
information and description as makes a guide book invaluable. We are glad to see this book,
and, for one reason, because so little comparatively is known of Mexico. To capitalists, miners
and merchants, in fact to the general public we heartily commend this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

A TOUCHING INCIDENT.

A YOUNG GIRL'S DEMENTIA--HOW IT WAS OCCASIONED--SOME NEW AND STARTLING TRUTHS.

The St. Louis express, on the New York Central road, was crowded one evening recently, when
at one of the way stations, an elderly gentleman, accompanied by a young lady, entered the
cars and finally secured a seat. As the conductor approached the pair, the young lady arose,
and in a pleading voice said:

"Please, sir, don't let him carry me to the asylum. I am not crazy; I am a little tired, but
not mad. Oh! no, indeed. Won't you please have papa take me back home?"

The conductor, accustomed though he was to all phases of humanity, looked with astonishment
at the pair, as did the other passengers in their vicinity. A few words from the father, however,
sufficed, and the conductor passed on while the young lady turned her face to the window. The
writer chanced to be seated just behind the old gentleman, and could not forgo the desire to
speak to him. With a sad face and a trembling voice the father said:

"My daughter has been attending the seminary in a distant town and was succeeding remarkably.
Her natural qualities, together with a great ambition, placed her in the front ranks of the
school, but she studied too closely, was not careful of her health, and her poor brain has
been turned. I am taking her to a private asylum where we hope she will soon be better."

At the next station the old man and his daughter left the cars, but the incident, so suggestive
of Shakspeare's Ophelia, awakened strange thoughts in the mind of the writer. It is an absolute
fact that while the population of America increased thirty per cent. during the decade between
1870 and 1880 the insanity increase was over one hundred and thirty-five per cent. for the
same period. Travellers by rail, by boat, or in carriages in any part of the land see large
and elaborate buildings, and inquire what they are?

Insane asylums!

Who builds them?

Each state; every county; hundreds of private individuals, and in all cases their capacity
is taxed to the utmost.

Why?

Because men, in business and the professions, women, at home or in society, and children at
school overtax their mental and nervous forces by work, worry and care. This brings about nervous
disorders, indigestion, and eventually mania.

It is not always trouble with the head that causes insanity. It far oftener arises from evils
in other parts of the body. The nervous system determines the status of the brain. Any one
who has periodic headaches; occasional dizziness; a dimness of vision; a ringing in the ears;
a feverish head; frequent nausea or a sinking at the pit of the stomach, should take warning
at once. The stomach and head are in direct sympathy, and if one be impaired the other can
never be in order. Acute dyspepsia causes more insane suicides than any other known agency,
and the man, woman or child whose stomach is deranged is not and cannot be safe from the coming
on at any moment of mania in some one of its many terrible forms.

The value of moderation and the imperative necessity of care in keeping the stomach right must
therefore be clear to all. The least appearance of indigestion, or mal-assimilation of food
should be watched as carefully as the first approach of an invading army. Many means advocated
for meeting such attacks, but all have heretofore been more or less defective. There can be
little doubt, however, that for the purpose of regulating the stomach, toning it up to proper
action, keeping its nerves in a normal condition and purifying the blood, Warner's Tippecanoe
The Best, excels all ancient or recent discoveries. It is absolutely pure and vegetable; it
is certain to add vigor to adults, while it cannot by any possibility injure even a child.
The fact that it was used in the days of the famous Harrison family is proof positive of its
merits as it so thoroughly withstood the test of time. As a tonic and revivifer it is simply
wonderful. It has relieved the agony of the stomach in thousands of cases; soothed the tired
nerves; produced peaceful sleep and averted the coming on of a mania more to be dreaded than
death itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

1885.

HARPER'S MAGAZINE.

ILLUSTRATED.

With the new volume, beginning in December, HARPER'S MAGAZINE will conclude its thirty-fifth
year. The oldest periodical of its type, it is yet, in each new volume, a new magazine, nor
simply because it presents fresh subjects and new pictures, but also, and chiefly, because
it steadily advances in the method itself of magazine-making. In a word, the MAGAZINE becomes
more and more the faithful mirror of current life and movement. Leading features in the attractive
programme for 1885 are: new serial novels by CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON and W.D. HOWELLS; a
new novel entitled "At the Red Glove;" descriptive illustrated papers by F. D. MILLET, R. SWAIN
GIFFORD, E.A. ABBEY, H. GIBSON, and others; Goldsmith's "She Stoops to Conquer," illustrated
by ABBEY; important papers on Art. Science, etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARPER'S PERIODICALS.

Per Year:

HARPER'S MAGAZINE $4.00 HARPER'S WEEKLY 4.00 HARPER'S BAZAR 4.00 HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE 2.00
HARPER'S FRANKLIN SQUARE LIBRARY, One Year (52 numbers) 10.00

Postage Free to all Subscribers in the United States or Canada.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Volumes of the MAGAZINE begin with the numbers for June and December of each year. When
no time is specified, it will be understood that the subscriber wishes to begin with the current
number.

The last eleven Semi-annual Volumes of HARPER'S MAGAZINE, in neat cloth binding, will be sent
by mail, postpaid, on receipt of $3 per volume. Cloth Cases, for binding, 50 cents each--by
mail, postpaid.

Index to HARPER'S MAGAZINE, Alphabetical, Analytical and Classified, for Volumes 1 to 60, inclusive,
from June, 1850, to June, 1880, one vol., 8vo., Cloth, $4.

Newspapers are not to copy this advertisement without the express order of HARPER & BROTHERS.

Address HARPER & BROTHERS, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

In every town in the Northern States there should be an AGENT for the

BAY STATE MONTHLY.

Those desiring exclusive territory should apply at once, accompanying their application with
letter of recommendation from some postmaster or minister. Liberal Terms and Prompt Pay.

BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

1885.

HARPER'S WEEKLY.

ILLUSTRATED.

Harper's Weekly has now, for twenty years, maintained its position as the leading illustrated
weekly newspaper in America. With a constant increase of literary and artistic resources, it
is able to offer for the ensuing year attractions unequalled by any previous volume, embracing
a capital illustrated serial story by W.E. NORRIS; illustrated articles with special reference
to the West and South, including the World's Exposition at New Orleans; entertaining short
stories, mostly illustrated, and important papers by high authorities on the chief topics of
the day.

Everyone who desires a trustworthy political guide, an entertaining and instructive family
journal, entirely free from objectionable features, in either letterpress or illustrations,
should subscribe to HARPER'S WEEKLY.

HARPER'S PERIODICALS. When no time is mentioned, it will be understood that the subscriber
wishes to commence with the Number next after the receipt of order.

The last Five Annual Volumes of HARPER'S WEEKLY, in neat cloth binding, will be sent by mail,
postage paid, or by express, free of expense (provided the freight does not exceed one dollar
per volume) for $7 00 per volume.

Cloth cases for each volume, suitable for binding, will be sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt
of $1 each.

HARPER'S BAZAR.

ILLUSTRATED.

Harper's Bazar is the only paper in the world that combines the choicest literature and the
finest art illustrations with the latest fashions and methods of household adornment. Its weekly
illustrations and descriptions of the newest Paris and New York styles, with its useful pattern-sheet
supplements and cut patterns, by enabling ladies to be their own dressmakers, save many times
the cost of subscription. Its papers on cooking, the management of servants, and housekeeping
in its various details are eminently practical. Much attention is given to the interesting
topic of social etiquette, and its illustrations of art needlework are acknowledged to be unequalled.
Its literary merit is of the highest excellence, and the unique character of its humorous pictures
has won for it the name of the American Punch.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN

ESTABLISHED 1846.

The most popular Weekly newspaper devoted to science, mechanics, engineering, discoveries,
inventions and patents ever published. Every number illustrated with splendid engravings. This
publication, furnishes a most valuable encyclopedia of information which no person should be
without. The popularity of the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN is such that its circulation nearly equals
that of all other papers of its class combined. Price $3.20 a year. Discount to Clubs. Sold
by all newsdealers. MUNN & CO., Publishers, No. 361 Broadway, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATENTS

Munn & Co. have also had Thirty-Seven Years' practice before the Patent Office, and have prepared
more than One Hundred Thousand applications for patents in the United States and foreign countries.
Caveats, Trade-Marks, Copyrights, Assignments, and all other papers for securing to inventors
their rights in the United States, Canada, England, France, Germany and other foreign countries,
prepared at short notice and on reasonable terms.

Information as to obtaining patents cheerfully given without charge. Hand-books of information
sent free. Patents obtained through Munn & Co. are noticed in the Scientific American free.
The advantage of such notice is well understood by all persons who wish to dispose of their
patents.

Address MUNN & CO. Office SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, 361 Broadway, New York.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN N. McCLINTOCK & CO.,

Publishers, Printers, Stereotypers, and Electrotypers, have facilities for doing Book Work
and Job Printing.

ESTIMATES CHEERFULLY FURNISHED.

       *       *       *       *       *

MACDONALD & SONS,

51 CHARDON STREET,

BOSTON.

CLOTH AND EXTRA

BOOK-BINDING,

TREE CALF A SPECIALTY.

LARGE EDITIONS, IN ANY STYLE, AT LOWEST RATES.

       *       *       *       *       *

L. PRANG & CO,

FINE ART PUBLISHERS,

BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christmas and New Year Cards

(ILLUSTRATED CHRISTMAS CATALOGUES SENT ON APPLICATION.)

New Artistic Painting Copies.

New Scripture Text Cards,

New Marriage Certificates,

New Birthday Cards.

New Artistic Satin Prints.

       *       *       *       *       *

CALENDARS FOR 1885

THACKERAY CALENDAR. RUSKIN CALENDAR. TENNYSON CALENDAR.

AN ELEGANT LOT OF

Valentine and Easter Cards

IN PREPARATION,

INCLUDING SEVERAL STRIKING NOVELTIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

AGENCIES:

New York: 38 Bond Street.

Philadelphia: 1110 Walnut Street.

Chicago: 112 Monroe Street.

San Francisco: 529 Commercial Street.

Canada; Toronto News Co. and Montreal News Co.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS OF VOLUME II.

NUMBER 1.

Steel plate portrait of James G. Elaine James Gillespie Elaine. Sketch of the life of Boundary
Lines of Old Groton. III. By the Hon. Samuel Abbott Green, M.D. The Boston Herald Wachusett
Mountain and Princeton. By Atherton P. Mason, M.D. Washington and the Flag. By Gen. Henry B.
Carrington, LL.D A Summer on the Great Lakes. By Fred Myron Colby Our National Cemeteries.
By Charles Cowley, LL.D.

NUMBER 2.

Steel plate portrait of President Elect Cleveland Grover Cleveland. Sketch of the life of.
By Henry H. Metcalf Boundary Lines of Old Groton. IV. By the Hon. Samuel Abbott Green, M.D.
Sails Elizabeth: a Romance of Colonial Days. I, II. By Frances C. Sparhawk The Protection of
Children. By Ernest Nusse The Middlesex Canal. By Lorin L. Dame, A.M. The Taverns of Boston
in Ye Olden Times. By David M. Balfour Editor's Table

NUMBER 3.

Steel plate portrait of Daniel Lothrop Daniel Lothrop. Sketch of the life of The New England
Conservatory of Music. By Mrs. M.J. Davis Historical Sketch of the Town of Saugus. By E.P.
Robinson The Bartholdi Colossus. By William Howe Downes Elizabeth: a Romance of Colonial Days.
III, IV, V. By Frances C. Sparhawk Glorifying Trial by Jury. By Charles Cowley, LL.D Publishers'
Department--Chromo-Lithography Book Notices

For contents of No. 4 (current number) see first page of cover.

Terms, $3.00 per year; Single Numbers, 25 cents.

JOHN N. McCLINTOCK AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS.

Arthur P. Dodge, Business Manager.

31 MILK STREET, BOSTON, Mass,

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERTISEMENT.

The editors who have missed any numbers of the BAY STATE MONTHLY, and who desire to preserve
a complete file of the publication for reference, will kindly notify the publishers of the
BAY STATE MONTHLY of the numbers which they lack, and as soon as possible the missing numbers
shall be supplied.

It is needless to remind the gentlemen of the newspaper fraternity how dependent is such a
publication as the BAY STATE MONTHLY upon their good will and favor.

What we need, to fully carry out the idea of giving to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts a
Magazine of biography, history and, literature devoted especially to the State, is the hearty
support of readers and advertisers. We want an increased subscription list so that every hamlet
in the State will be supplied with the magazine.

We need notices that will increase our subscription list.

JOHN N. McCLINTOCK AND COMPANY. PUBLISHERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

EMPHATIC GUARANTEES.

WHICH ARE JUSTIFIED BY AN EXTRAORDINARY PUBLIC EXPERIENCE.

TO THE PUBLIC.--Greeting: As the conductors of the largest business of the kind in the world,
(and therefore having an extraordinary experience), we feel justified in making the following
statements:

OUR THEORY PROVED.

First.--We have held from the beginning that most of the common ailments are caused primarily
by kidney and liver disorders, not primarily by bad blood; that bad blood is caused by temporary
or chronic derangement of the kidneys and liver, and that by restoring these blood-purifying
organs to health, we could cure most of the common ailments. Other practitioners, however,
have held that extreme kidney and liver disorders were incurable. We, have proved to the contrary
in thousands of cases.

SAFEGUARDS AGAINST EPIDEMICS.

SECOND.--The kidneys and liver are the sewers of the system, and unless they are kept in perfect
working order no amount of public sanitation can prevent epidemics raging among the people.
The prudent man, in the winter and spring, will fortify the system against an such possibility.
Dr. Koch, the celebrated German scientist and physician, says, for instance, that cholera will
have but little effect among those who keep the digestive organs and the kidneys and liver
in healthful operation. Warner's SAFE Remedies are the best scientific curatives and preventives,
and should be used now as a safeguard against any future scourge.

SCIENTIFIC SPECIFICS.

THIRD.--We do not cure every known disease from one bottle, for Warner's SAFE Remedies number
seven scientific specifics, which have been put upon the market, only in obedience to strong
public demand.

RECOGNIZED STANDARDS.

FOURTH.--Warner's SAFE Remedies, spite of all opposition, have won the favor of the profession
as well as the masses, and are recognized as the leading standard medical preparations.

STRONG GUARANTEES.

FIFTH.--After six years of unequaled experience, we can give these unqualified guarantees:

GUARANTEE I.--Pure and Harmless. That Warner's SAFE Remedies are pure and harmless.

GUARANTEE II.--Testimonials Genuine. That the Testimonials used by us, so far as we know, are
bona fide, with a forfeit of $5,000 for proof to the contrary.

GUARANTEE III.--Curative Effects Permanent. That Warner's SAFE Remedies are not merely temporary,
but permanent, in their curative effects and will sustain every claim, if used sufficiently
and as directed.

PROOFS OF PERMANENCY.

SIXTH.--Special inquiry among hundreds of our oldest patients results in unequivocal testimony
that the cures wrought six, five, four, and three years ago, were permanent. And most of these
patients were pronounced incurable when they began Warner's SAFE Remedies.

Read a few of thousands of testimonials.

B.F. LARRABEE, 42 Chester Square, Boston, Mass., in 1879 was pronounced incurable of acute
Bright's Disease. From 1880 to 1882 he used over 200 bottles of Warner's Safe Cure, and October
6th, 1884, he said that his cure was as permanent as surprising.

REV. S.P. SMITH, Marblehead, Mass., after years of suffering from Bilious attacks and Gall
Stones, began Warner's Safe Cure in 1882 and in June, 1884, reported that he had had no trouble
since.

HON. N.A. PLYMPTON, Worcester, Mass., in 1880 suffered frightful tortures from Gravel of the
Kidneys; failing of relief otherwise he used a few bottles of Warner's Safe Cure and recently
wrote: "It perfectly cured me, four years ago."

L. Dow, Esq., 204 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass., was cured of Kidney disorder by Warner's Safe
Cure in 1882, and November 28th, 1884, he wrote that the cure was permanent.

MRS. S.A. CLARK, East Granby, Conn., suffered for over ten years from Constitutional and Sex
disorders of the worst kind. In November, 1884, she wrote: "Warner's Safe Cure cured me four
years ago and has kept me well to this day."

SEVENTH.--It is a source of great gratification to us that Warner's Safe Remedies have been
permanently beneficial to so many sufferers. This permanency of power over disease gives them
the most exalted rank, and in this particular they have no equal. H.H. WARNER & CO. Rochester,
N.Y., Jan. 1, 1885.

       *       *       *       *       *

1885

HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE,

AN ILLUSTRATED WEEKLY.

The serial and short stories in HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE have all the dramatic interest that juvenile
fiction can possess, while they are wholly free from what is pernicious or vulgarly sensational.
The humorous stories and pictures are full of innocent fun, and the papers on natural history
and science, travel and the facts of life, are by writers whose names give the best assurance
of accuracy and value. Illustrated papers on athletic sports, games, and pastimes give full
information on these subjects. There is nothing cheap about it but its price.

An epitome of everything that is attractive and desirable in juvenile literature.--Boston Courier.

A weekly feast of good things to the boys and girls in every family which it visits.--Brooklyn
Union.

It is wonderful in its wealth of pictures, information, and interest.--Christian Advocate, N.Y.

Terms: Postage Prepaid, $2 per Year.

Vol. VI. commences November 4, 1884.

SINGLE NUMBERS, Five Cents each.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you want to buy a cheap

FRUIT FARM

ON EASY TERMS,

Address J. WANSER, P.O. Box 1276, Vineland, N.J.

Reference: Arthur P. Dodge, 31 Milk St., Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAFE INVESTMENTS

Carefully selected and approved First Mortgage Coupon Bonds on Improved Western Farms, in amounts
from $200 to $10,000 Principal and Interest payable on day of maturity at the Third National
Bank, New York. Interest, Seven per Cent., payable semi-annually. Coupons Bankable at Par at
any Bank in the United States.

EVERY LOAN GUARANTEED.

Tenth Year of Business. No Investor ever had to Pay Taxes, Costs of Foreclosure, Wait for Interest,
or Take Land, and not a Dollar has been Lost.

REFERENCES BY PERMISSION.

A.P. Palmer, Cashier Albany City National Bank, Albany, N.Y. B.W. Arnold, of Arnold & Co.,
Albany, N.Y., and President Spanish River Lumber Co., Spanish River, Ont. Samuel N. Bacon,
Esq., of Bacon, Stickney & Co., Albany, N.Y. Dr. F.C. Curtis, of State Board of Health, Albany,
N.Y. Rev. Samuel V. Leech, D.D., Chaplain of New York State Senate, Albany, N.Y. Third National
Bank, New York City. National Bank, Lawrence, Kansas. E.B. Lathrop, Cashier National Bank of
America, Chicago, Ill. Thos. D. Robertson, President Winnebago National Bank, Rockford, Ill.
Biddle Hardware Co., Philadelphia, Pa. Rev. Henry Darling, D.D., LL.D., President Hamilton
College, Clinton, N.Y. W.O. McClure, Esq., Utica, N.Y. Hon. John E. Pound, Lockport, N.Y. Samuel
Buell, Esq., Lyons, N.Y. M.H. Tarbox, Esq., Lockport, N.Y. A.N. Bentley, Esq., Greenville,
N.Y. Solomon L. Gillett, Esq., Elmira, N.Y. A.B. Kellogg, Esq., Buffalo, N.Y. A.L. Chapin,
President Beloit College, Beloit, Wis. E.H. Fairchild, President Berea College, Berea, Ky.
Hon. G.B. McElroy, Treasurer Adrian College, Adrian, Mich. R.C. Crampton, President Illinois
College, Jacksonville. Ill. Prof. E.P. Harris, Amherst College, Mass. Rev. W.D. Hart, Pastor
Congregational Church, Little Compton, R.I. Rev. William H. Wilcox, D.D., Malden, Mass. Rev.
A. Beattie, D.D., Rector Trinity Church, Lawrence, Kansas. Rev. A.M. Richardson, Pastor Congregational
Church, Lawrence, Kansas. Rev. Rufus Case, Hubbardston, Mass. Hon. Charles Robinson, ex-Governor
of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas. Hon. T.W. Cheenery, Deputy County Treasurer, Springfield, Ill.
E.R. Upham, Esq., County Clerk of Morgan County, Jacksonville, Ill. Louis Ticknor, Esq., County
Clerk of Sangamon County, Ill. General G.W. Babcock, Lawrence, Kansas. Hon. Owen A. Bassett,
ex-Judge Fourth Judicial District, Lawrence, Kansas. Dr. H. Warren, Danville, Conn. Dr. Moses
Parker, Groveland, Mass.

These securities are negotiated by an incorporated company of large experience and strong financial
standing. Their charter is perpetual, so the care of the loans will not be thrown upon the
investor, as it would be in case of the death, change of business or location of an individual
or firm negotiating the same. They combine the loan, tax, legal, and insurance departments,
making this an exclusive business; personally investigating every application and guaranteeing
every loan, thereby protecting the investor by a double security.

M.V.B. BULL & CO.,

TWEDDLE BUILDING, ALBANY, N.Y.

Financial Agents WESTERN FARM MORTGAGE CO., of Lawrence, Kansas.

       *       *       *       *       *

  ST. NICHOLAS
  FOR
  YOUNG FOLKS.

  Attractions for 1884-5.

This magazine, during its eleven happy years of existence, under the editorial charge of

MARY MAPES DODCE,

has grown familiar to hundreds of thousands of young readers; and their interest and intelligent
enjoyment have constantly inspired the editor and publishers to fresh effort. The following
are some of the good things already secured for future numbers of St. Nicholas.

"His One Fault," a serial story for boys, by the popular author, J.T. Trowbridge.

"Personally Conducted," illustrated papers on famous places in Europe. By Frank R. Stockton.

"Historic Girls," a companion series to "Historic Boys." By E.S. Brooks.

"Ready for Business"; suggestions to boys about to choose an occupation. By G.J. Manson.

"Driven Back to Eden," a serial. By E.P. Roe.

"Talks for Young Folks," a series of popular papers, by H.H. (Helen Jackson).

"Among the Law-makers": recollections of a boy-page in the U.S. Senate,--containing much political
information, both instructive and amusing. By Edmund Alton.

"Davy and the Goblin," a very funny serial story by a new writer, Charles Carryl.

Short Stories by Louisa M. Alcott.

"The Progress of Invention": from "Palanquin to Parlor-car," "From Cross-bow to 100-ton Gun,"
etc. Descriptive papers, by Charles E. Bolton.

"Art Work for Young Folks"; papers on decorative handicraft, by Charles G. Leland.

"Sheep or Silver?" a story of Texan life. By the late Rev. William M. Baker.

"A Garden of Girls," being six short stories for girls, by Six Leading Writers.

"Tales of Two Continents"; stories of adventure, by H.H. Boyesen.

"Cartoons for Boys and Girls," funny pictures by St. Nicholas Artists.

"From Bach to Wagner"; brief, pointed biographies of great musicians. By Agatha Tunis.

Special Papers by chosen writers, including Mary Hallock Foote, Joaquin Miller, Alice Wellington
Rollins, G.B. Bartlett, Harriet Prescott Spofford, Rev. Washington Gladden, Julia Schayer,
Anna Lea Merritt, W.O. Stoddard, D. Ker, Ernest Ingersoll, Clara E. Clement, Lieutenant Schwatka.

The Illustrations will be the work of the very best artists and engravers; and there will be
plenty of them. In the November and December numbers are beautiful colored frontispieces. Buy
the November number for the children. It costs only 25 cents, and all book and news dealers
sell it. The subscription price is $3.00 a year, and now is just the time to subscribe.

A free specimen copy of ST. NICHOLAS will be sent on request. Mention this paper.

THE CENTURY CO., NEW YORK, N.Y.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CENTURY IN 1885.

A GREAT ENTERPRISE.

PAPERS ON THE CIVIL WAR.

The important feature of THE CENTURY MAGAZINE for the coming year--indeed, perhaps the most
important ever undertaken by the magazine--will be a series of separate papers on the great
battles of the War for the Union, written by general officers high in command upon both the
Federal and the Confederate sides,--General Grant (who writes of Vicksburg, Shiloh, and other
battles,) Generals Longstreet, McClellan, Beauregard, Rosecrans, Hill, Admiral Porter and others.
The series open in the November CENTURY with a graphical illustrated article on the BATTLE
OF BULL RUN, written by the Confederate general, G.T. Beauregard. Brief sketches, entitled
"Recollections of a Private," papers chronicling special events, descriptions of various auxiliary
branches of the service, etc., will supplement the more important series by the various generals.

A strict regard for accuracy will guide the preparations of the illustrations, for which THE
CENTURY has at its disposal a very large quantity of photographs, drawings, portraits, maps,
plans, etc., hereto unused. The aim is to present in this series, not official reports, but
commanding officers' accounts of their plans and operations,--interesting personal experiences
which will record leading events of the war, and possess, at the same time, a historical value
not easily to be calculated.

FICTION.

In this line THE CENTURY will maintain its prestige, and furnish the best stories by American
writers that can be procured.

MISCELLANEOUS FEATURES.

Under this heading may be included a series of papers on the Cities of Italy by W.D. Howells,
the illustrations being reproduction of etchings and drawings by Joseph Pennell; a series on
the New North-West, being an interesting group of papers by E.V. Smalley, Lieut. Schwatka,
Principal Grant (of Kingston, Ontario), and others, descriptive of little-known regions; papers
on French and American art--sculpture and painting, with some exquisite illustrations.

JOHN BURROUGHS

will write from time to time on outdoor subjects.

Readers of THE CENTURY may feel sure of keeping abreast of the times on leading subjects that
may properly come within the province of a monthly magazine. Its circulation is now about 140,000
monthly, the November number exceeding that figure. Subscriptions should date from this number,
beginning the War Series and Mr. Howell's Novel. Price $4.00 a year, 35 cents a number. All
book-sellers and news-dealers sell it and take subscriptions, or remittance may be made to
the publishers.

A free specimen copy of THE CENTURY will be sent on request. Mention this paper

THE CENTURY CO., New York, N.Y.

The BAY STATE MONTHLY and THE CENTURY for $6.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUMMER TERM OF THE NEW ENGLAND CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC BEGINS APRIL 20, 1885.

NEW CLASSES Will be formed for beginners as well as for advanced students in all departments.
Send for beautifully illustrated Calendar, free, to

  E. TOURJEE, Director.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Parkhill Manufacturing Co.,

  Fitchburg, Mass., Manufacturers of the celebrated

  "TOILE DU NORD" FABRIC.

  FINE GINGHAMS AND DRESS GOODS.
  GOODS   WARRANTED   PERFECT.

  JOHN PARKHILL, President.
  ARTHUR H. LOWE, Treasurer.

  ESTABLISHED 1855.

       *       *       *       *       *

H.A. GOODRICH & CO.,

Clothiers, Hatters and Furriers.

The Oldest and Largest Establishment of the kind in Fitchburg.

MOTTO: HONEST GOODS AT HONEST PRICES.

       *       *       *       *       *

J.J. ARAKELYAN

NO. 226 FRANKLIN STREET,--BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Book, Newspaper, Magazine, Pamphlet and Catalogue

PRINTER.

Presswork from type or plates a specialty. Estimates cheerfully furnished.

LAWRENCE BARRETT

until March 21.

DENMAN THOMPSON

until April 4. See daily newspapers.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

Abbott, Josiah Gardner                 John Hatch George An Incident of 1686              
Mellen Chamberlain Ansart, Louis                          Clara Clayton Arthur, Chester Alan
Ben: Perley Poore. Beacon Hill Before the Houses          David M. Balfour Boston Tea-Party
Boston, The First Schoolmaster of      Elizabeth Porter Gould Boston, The Siege of, Developed
H.B. Carrington, U.S.A., LL.D. Boston Y.M.C. Association              Russell Sturgis, Jr.
Boundary Lines of Old Groton           Samuel Abbott Green, M.D. British Forces in the Revolution
British Losses in the Revolution Bunker Hill                            H.B. Carrington, U.S.A.,
LL.D. Butler, Benjamin Franklin Chelsea                                William E. McClintock,
C.E. Defence of New York, 1776              H.B. Carrington, U.S.A., LL.D. Dungeon Rock, Lynn
Frank P. Harriman Early Harvard                          Rev. Josiah Lafayette Seward Esoteric
Buddhism.--A Review           Lucius H. Buckingham, Ph.D. Reprint of Webster's Oration, 1800
Family Immigration to New England      Thomas W. Bicknell, LL.D. First Baptist Church in Massachusetts
Thomas W. Bicknell, LL.D. From the White Horse to Little Rhody   Charles M. Barrows Fuller,
George                         Sidney Dickinson Gifts to Colleges and Universities     Rev.
Charles F. Thwing Groton, The Boundary Lines of Old      Samuel Abbott Green, M.D. Groton,
Old Stores and Post-Office of  Samuel Abbott Green, M.D. Groton, Taverns and Stage-Coaches
of   Samuel Abbott Green, M.D. Historical Notes Washington Elm; Eliot Oak              L.L.
Dame Lancaster in Acadie                    Hon. Henry S. Nourse Lovewell's War           
John N. McClintock, A.M. Lowell Loyalists of Lancaster                 Hon. Henry S. Nourse
Massachusetts, Y.M.C. Associations     Russell Sturgis, Jr. New England Town-House        
Prof. J.B. Sewall Ohio Floods                            George E. Jenks One Summer.--A Reminiscence
Annie Wentworth Baer Perkins, Captain George Hamilton       George E. Belknap, U.S.N. Poet
of the Bells                      E.H. Goss Railway Mail Service                   Thomas P.
Cheney Reuben Tracy's Vacation Trips          Elizabeth Porter Gould Rice, Alexander Hamilton
Daniel B. Hager, Ph.D. Town and City Histories                Robert Luce Webster, Colonel
Fletcher              Charles Cowley, LL.D. Wilder, Marshall P.                    John Ward
Dean, A.M.

POETRY.

Bells of Bethlehem                     James T. Fields His Greatest Triumph               
Henrietta E. Page Rent Veil                              Henry B. Carrington Song of The Winds
Henry B. Carrington Tuberoses                              Laura Garland Carr Yesterday   
Kate L. Brown

       *       *       *       *       *

D. LOTHROP & COMPANY'S CHOICE PUBLICATIONS.

BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED IN ELEGANT BINDINGS.

LOTHROP'S NEW GIFT BOOKS.

The selections offered by D. Lothrop & Co in books of this class, will repay the most careful
examination. In respect of literary and artistic merit, and a choiceness in contents which
secures adaptation to the widest range of needs, these books are unrivalled. Among them may
be mentioned:

INTIMATIONS OF IMMORTALITY. FROM RECOLLECTIONS OF EARLY CHILDHOOD. Wordsworth's sublime Ode.
It was a happy thought which led to the presentation of this favorite masterpiece of England's
former Poet Laureate, as it here appears with full-page illustrations, by Hassam, Garrett,
Lungren, Miss Humphrey, Taylor, St. John Harper and Smedley. This immortal poem in its setting
of beautiful pictures is adorned as with gems. 8vo, cloth, $2.00. Turkey morocco, $5.00.

IDEAL POEMS. This exquisite volume occupies an enviable place among popular illustrated gift-books,
and deservedly so. From the wide range of English poetry, there have been selected with rare
discrimination twelve worthy the title of "Ideal." It is not too much to say that those chosen
most fitly represent the immortal poems upon which popular judgment has set its seal of approval.
For the illustration of these a dozen celebrated artists have contributed beautiful full-page
drawings. The work of the printer and binder is faultless, and the result is a book which is
in every respect gratifying to the taste of the most exacting. Elegant floral binding, $3.00.
Turkey morocco, $6.00.

AMERICA, OUR NATIONAL HYMN, AND OTHER PATRIOTIC POEMS. By Rev. S.F. Smith, D.D. For fifty years
this peerless hymn has held its place in the hearts of the American people as their most cherished
patriotic song. This superb volume, in which it is enshrined with all the beauty and elegance
possible in the art of the bookmaker, fitly commemorates its semi-centennial. In addition to
the hymn "America," the volume contains twelve new patriotic poems by its author, none of which
have hitherto been given to the public save on the great occasions when they have been read
to delighted multitudes. Among the titles of these poems are "The Pilgrims," "The Flag In Nature,"
"The Flag an Emblem," "Washington," "Centennial Hymn," "Lexington 1776-1876," "Decoration Day,"
"The Sleep of the Brave," "Our Young Patriots," "Abraham Lincoln," "The Boys," "My Native Land."
Extra cloth, full gilt, $3.00. Morocco binding, $6.00.

WILD FLOWERS AND WHERE THEY GROW. The pages of this book will be attractive to all lovers of
nature. The author, Amanda B. Harris, possesses the secret of interpreting nature in a thoroughly
natural way. Mothers will take delight in reading the volume to or with their little ones,
in whose lives they will see repeated the unalloyed happiness which came to them in the midst
of their own childhood ramblings in fields and meadows. The illustrations are admirable in
design and execution. 8vo, extra cloth, beveled edges, $3.00. Turkey Morocco, Antique, gilt
edges, $6.00.

OUT OF DARKNESS. Few among American women of to-day bid fair to attain such enviable distinction
as that promised to Miss Mary A. Lathbury. She has not only won high reputation as a writer
of hymns and songs, full of poetical fervor and exalted spiritual sentiment, but has also gained
high success as an artist in connection with book illustrations. This elegant volume gives
evidence of the author's unusual gifts. Its eight poems, interpretations of the inner life,
are illustrated by the author with eight masterly full-page drawings, and twenty exquisite
vignettes, printed on heavy plate paper. Quarto, elegant floral covers, $3.00. Cloth, gilt
edges, $3.00.

A ROMANCE IN SONG. HEINE'S LYRICAL INTERLUDE. With the appreciation shown by American readers
for all that is best in literature, it must be confessed that due attention has yet to be given
to the remarkable works of the poet Heine. Mr. Franklin Johnson has conferred a boon upon the
public, and will do much to remedy this seeming neglect, by the pleasing and altogether excellent,
scholarly translation of this choice literary gem. A chapter of autobiography, the most romantic
in the life of the poet, in itself full of interest, it is made additionally attractive by
chaste and appropriate illustrations furnished by artists of highest note. Uniform with "Ideal
Poems," 8vo, $3.00.

THE KINGDOM OF HOME. This is one of the books whose material never becomes commonplace, and
whose stories and pictures never cease to have a delightsome freshness. From the moment of
its publication its welcome was assured, and it will continue, regardless of the literary novelties
and favorites of a day which come and go, to be one of the best and most popular gift-books
in all the catalogue of household treasures. Its illustrations, which extend from full-page
engravings to quaint end pieces, and include descriptive pieces of every character, are exceptionally
abundant, and surprisingly good. Full of pleasurable reminders are the stories which are told
in picture as well as verse. We have the old water-wheel making music in the village glen;
the old farmhouse with its outlook upon brook and meadow; the little ones repeating their evening
prayers. In brief, all that makes home sacred--its joys and sorrows, its welcomes and its farewells,
its wedding melodies and cradle songs, find expression in the home born and hallowed songs
of this volume. While no anthology can be supposed to satisfy all the rules of criticism, this
work, as truly remarked, "stands in a niche by itself distinct from anything yet known to us;
and the continuous theme knits part to part in a beautiful whole. The sunshine of home seems
to beam from the large clear attractive pages provided by the publishers." 8vo, Russia leather,
seal grain, $6.00.

IT IS THE CHRISTMAS TIME. Is a volume which will be conspicuously attractive among books associated
with Christmas. Among exquisite engravings, it enshrines twelve ideal hymns and poems, time
hallowed songs of Christmas, dear to the heart, such as "The Star Song," by Herrick, the "Carols"
of Wordsworth, George MacDonald, and Miss Mulock; Wesley's "Herald Angels;" ever living hymns
by Bishop, Heber, Tate and Watts, and the wondrous Angels' Songs by Montgomery, Drummond and
Keble. For all who are in true sympathy with the religious sentiment and the deep significance
of Christmas, this will be a most welcome book. 8vo, cloth, $2.00. Turkey morocco, $5.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOK NOTICES.

CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS' ANNUAL. Illustrated, Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.50. We doubt
whether in any book of the year prepared for the benefit or entertainment of young readers,
another volume can be found which contains within so small a compass so much information about
everyday things which can be turned to practical account, as well as that of purely educational
value. It is well known that the house of D. Lothrop & Co. was selected by the Chautauqua Association
to publish a course of reading of an instructive character for the clubs and unions formed
on the Chautauqua plan throughout the country. This has been done for two years past, and the
papers so prepared have been issued as monthly supplements to WIDE AWAKE. These, consisting
of seven series on distinctly different subjects, have now been brought together into the present
annual. The leading series is entitled "Tales of the Pathfinders," and is from the pen of Arthur
Gilman, M.A. It deals with the early American pioneers, and presents vivid pictures of some
of the more striking incidents in our history. Another series, by Mrs. Sarah K. Bolton, is
made up of "Little Biographies" of distinguished men. Another, by that eminent traveller and
writer, Felix L. Oswald, has for its subject "Days and Nights in the Tropics," and is full
of descriptions of plant and animal life in the warmer regions of South America. "In Case of
Accident" consists of instructions what to do in case of accident or injury when a doctor is
not at hand, and is from the hand of an experienced physician. "Ways to Do Things" teach the
boy reader how to construct ferneries, bookcases, how to bind magazines, how to make a toy
railway and train, how to make curious kites, how to make and pitch a tent, and a variety of
other things. All this information is for the boys, of course, but the girls will find as much
to amuse and interest them in the various articles descriptive of "Anna Maria's Housekeeping."
A supplementary series, "What to Do About It," answers to the needs of both boys and girls.
The volume is capitally illustrated and handsomely bound.

PLEASANT AUTHORS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. By Amanda B. Harris. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.00.
This volume embraces a dozen papers upon English authors, whose writings are to be recommended
to the young, and which are of themselves delightful reading for the young and the old alike.
Their hearty appreciation of the subjects written upon give them the charm of sincere feeling.
The writer is in perfect sympathy with the authors she discusses. She gives enough of personal
anecdote and gossip to put young people on the footing of familiar acquaintance with those
whose works she would have them read. There are delicious bits of criticism made simply by
telling what she has herself found to admire or enjoy in their books. One sees just how she
has come to have her favorites. Older readers may learn from her how they can form a refined
and discriminating taste, and what pleasure this will give them. The young cannot fail of cultivating
such a taste unconsciously if they read what is here recommended. Some of the "pleasant authors"
mentioned in this book would be thought too heavy for young folks at the present day; but our
ideas of juvenile literature have been formed upon too low a standard. This little work on
authors is an admirable example of what such literature ought to be--a book that any boy or
girl of ten can read with profit, and can keep ready at hand for reference and for reperusal
through the many years of a long life. The list includes such names as Scott and Lamb and Jane
Austen and Kingsley and Ruskin and Miss Mitford, some of which have been honored now many generations.
The book will do good service for the young by pointing out to them good sources of pure and
elevated entertainment.

YULE-TIDE. Illustrated stories by favorite American and English Authors. Edited by Ella Farman,
with a Proem by Henry Randall Waite, Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $2.00. The contents of
this charming volume no less than its beautiful outside, make a strong and direct appeal to
the buyer of books. It is not often that so much that is varied and choice is brought together
in a single collection. There are short stories by Rose Terry Cooke, George Cary Eggleston,
Arthur Gilman, Susan Coolidge, Margaret Sidney, Mrs. A. M. Diaz, and others; poems by Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, Mrs. A.D.T. Whitney, Clara Doty Bates, Mary D. Brine, Celia Thaxter, Mary E.
Blake, Christina Rossetti, A. Mary F. Robinson, and Mrs. Mulock-Craik, with long stories originally
published in serial form in WIDE AWAKE,--"The Silver City," by Fred A. Ober, and "Old Caravan
Days," by Mary Hartwell Catherwood. All these are profusely and beautifully illustrated. The
binding is exceedingly tasteful. The volume is put up in a neat paper box, and makes a handsome
and fitting present for the holidays.

AMERICAN EXPLORERS. The United States has played a late but an honorable part in the work of
Polar discovery. The names of Kane, Hayes, Hall and De Long recall memories of labors and sufferings
in the cause which may be placed alongside the best achievements of the navigators of other
nations. The stories of the adventures and hardships of these heroes and martyrs of the Arctic
regions are not, however, easily accessible to the general public. They are either severally
published in large and costly volumes, or are still only to be found in the official records
of the United States Government. The scale, as well as the price, of these narratives makes
them unsuitable for consultation, more especially by young readers. Professor Nourse has, therefore,
done excellent service in preparing, chiefly from official sources, the records of American
Exploration in the Ice Zones, and in giving them a popular form. The volume embraces notices
of the expeditions sent out by Mr. Grinnell, under De Haven and Kane, for the relief of Sir
John Franklin; the late Admiral Rodger's explorations in the seas north of Behring Strait;
the voyages of Hayes and Hall up Smith Sound; Schwatka's remarkable sledge journey of three
thousand miles in search of the records and journals of the Franklin Expedition; the disastrous
cruise of the Jeannette, and the expeditions sent out by land and sea to the rescue of De Long
and his crew. There are also short accounts of United States' explorations in the Antarctic
regions, and a statement of the object, and position of the Arctic observers under the United
States Signal Stations. One of these stations, as we know, has been placed at Lady Franklin
Bay, Smith Sound, in the very forefront of the battle with the forces of the polar ice; for
two seasons nothing has been heard of it, and relief ships are at this moment on their way
to the north, in the hope of opening communications with Lieutenant Greeley and the other missing
men. The history of American exploration in the ice zones is therefore still in course of being
enacted. So far as it has already gone it is a record of which any nation might be proud. It
could not well have been epitomized with greater skill and knowledge than has been shown by
Professor Nourse; and his volume should have a popularity not confined to the United States.--The
Scotsman, Edinburgh, Scotland.

EVENING REST. By J.L. Pratt. Young Folks' Library. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price 25 cts.

A simple, quiet story, whose character is adequately expressed by the title. Evening Rest is
the name given to a little hamlet in the Blue Ridge region of Pennsylvania, remarkable for
the beauty of its surroundings and the lovely character of its people. Thither goes a young
man from the East to visit an uncle whom he has never before seen, and his experiences during
the stay make up the contents of the book. One incident of the story is strongly dramatic in
character. A family party, one of the members being the young man referred to, visit a coal
mine. While passing through one of the narrow passages the guide fires a pistol to show the
effects of the echo. The concussion of the air starts a loose part of the roof overhead and
a portion falls in. The little company is shut up in the earth with little chance of ever seeing
the light again. They have lights, however, and stumble across some tools, and by dint of many
hours' hard labor they are at length able to communicate with their friends outside, who are
at last able to rescue them. The author, throughout the story, dwells much upon the sweet and
tender influences of home. In Evening Rest he creates an ideal household and community, and
strives to show how much they have to do with the formation of character.

BABYLAND FOR 1884. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $.75. Anything more delightful
for the babies in the way of a picture or story book cannot possibly be conceived than this
bound volume of their special magazine, which has just made its appearance with the most attractive
of covers and most bewitching table of contents. There are songs for mamma to sing, and stories
for mamma to tell, and pictures which are better than both, because the little ones can read
them for themselves, and there isn't one but what can be read in twenty different ways. To
sum it all up, it is a regular dollar's worth of delight, and will go farther towards making
the four-year-old heart happy than any other dollar's worth one can imagine.

CHRISTIE'S CHRISTMAS. By PANSY (Mrs. G. R. Alden). Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. This
charming story will be heartily welcomed by young readers, who will find it one of the brightest
and most interesting books of the year. Christie is a purely original character, and what she
said and what she did is faithfully and delightfully chronicled. While the book is admirably
adapted to use in Sunday-school libraries, it is also exceptionally suitable for general reading,
and may well have a place beside "The Man of the House," "The Hedge Fence," and other popular
stories by the same writer, in the home library.

ALL THE YEAR ROUND By American Authors and Artists. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price
$1.50. Of all the collections of stories for juvenile readers that have come under our notice
the present season we have seen nothing to compare with this in point of variety, interest
and abundance. In its beautifully printed pages provision is made for every variety of taste;
there are stories for the boys of hunting, and fishing, and camping out; stories of adventures
on land and water; stories for the girls of school and play; stories of oldtime life of the
days of our grandfathers and grandmothers; stories of eminent men and women, and mingled with
choice poems by popular authors. Altogether it is one of the most charming compilations of
the year.

HOW THEY WENT TO EUROPE. By Margaret Sidney. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.00.
Everything that Margaret Sidney writes is sure of an audience, and though most of her books
are prepared for the delectation of the young, they have an equal charm for all classes of
readers. Some of her stories, in a household of children, have been literally "read to pieces,"
and judging from the frequency with which the tattered leaves are brought out, some delightful
sort of flavor hangs round them still. The title of the present book might be aptly extended
so as to read How They went to Europe, and yet didn't, go to Europe, for the journey made by
the little party of tourists is in plan something like The Voyage around My Room, which everybody
has read. Two or three bright girls, who are disappointed because they can't go abroad with
more fortunate relatives, determine to form a club in which they shall, to use a common phrase,
"go through the motions" of going; that is, they shall at their regular meetings follow on
the map, and by guide books and accounts of travel, the exact route taken by those who are
really journeying. The idea takes, and the club is organized; other members are taken in, and
before the next season it has so increased in size as to include the best young people in town
and render a change of place of meeting necessary from private parlors to a large public hall.
Lectures and stereopticon exhibitions are added, and some of the more enthusiastic members,
after a course of French travel, form a supplementary club for the study of French. The story
is brightly and naturally told and in a way that will be certain to bear fruit in the way of
other clubs of the kind, wherever it is read. Margaret Sidney's stories have this peculiarity,
that aside from their fascinating qualities of dialogue and narrative they leave something
to be remembered. The aim of the author is not obtruded, but its spirit is there and the mind
is roused to thought and action. What child can ever forget that most delightful of juvenile
stories, The Five Little Peppers, or the entertaining narrative of What the Seven Did, or the
author's latest of books for young readers, Who Told It to Me, and what better book for boys
is there than Half Year at Bronckton, a story whose moral effect upon young and imaginative
readers cannot be over estimated. The Pettibone Name, which appeared a year or two ago in the
V.I.F. series, was an instance of the author's power in appealing to readers of mature minds,
and gave evidence of unusual power in the line of the better class of fiction. All these books
have made a reputation for the author which will at once give her latest story a prominent
place among the books of the season.--Boston Transcript.

WIDE AWAKE "R." Illustrated, Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.75. Of all the annual WIDE AWAKE
issues this is by far the most attractive, and when this is said it is hard to conceive what,
more can be said in the way of praise. Its illustrations, which are all drawn expressly for
its pages, represent the best work of the most prominent American draughtsmen, while no stronger
show of names in the line of contributors has ever been presented by an American magazine.
Among the strong features of the volume is Elizabeth Stuart Phelps's serial complete, A Brave
Girl; Mr. Brooks' capital wonder-story, In No-Man's Land; Mr. Talbot's A Double Masquerade,
and Rev. E.E. Hale's To-Day Papers. Either of these would alone be worth the price of the volume,
but when added to them are the additional attractions in the way of brilliant short stories,
breezy sketches of life indoors and out, chapters of biography and history, bits of description,
poems, and essays, the volume becomes, a treasure-house seemingly inexhaustible in variety
and contents. In turning over its pages the eye falls upon such names as Mrs. A.D.T. Whitney,
Nora Perry, Sarah Orne Jewett, Sophie May, Mrs. M.H. Catherwood, Margaret Sidney, Mrs. Mulock-Craik,
Celia Thaxter, Lucy Larcom, and others as well known in the annals of magazine literature.
The volume is elegantly printed and beautifully bound.

HOW TO LEARN AND EARN. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. It is not often that
one finds between the covers of any single book so much information so pleasantly given upon
a special subject as in "How to Learn and Earn." The sixteen illustrated essays which make
up the contents are descriptive of as many institutions in this country for the instruction
of children and young people in the useful arts or professions. Some of them are institutions
under the auspices of the State, like the academy at West Point and the Indian School at Carlisle,
Pa.; one described is a school of reform; but most of them are the outcome of private benevolence
or charitable and religious endeavor. Among the more notable of these are the Perkins Institution
for the Blind at South Boston, the Boston Chinese Mission School, the cooking schools in various
cities, the blind children's kindergarten, etc. Among the authors whose contributions are included
are Amanda E. Harris, Ella Farman Pratt, Mrs. John Lillie, May Wager Fisher, Margaret Sidney
and Mrs. Jessie Benton Fremont.

IMITATIONS OF BABYLAND. The great reputation won during the past eight years by D. Lothrop
& Co.'s unique and charming illustrated magazine and annual, BABYLAND, has induced certain
publishers to attempt imitations under similar titles. The public should beware of these inferior
imitations. The publishers deem it proper to inform the public that the only genuine BABYLAND
invariably bears the imprint of D. Lothrop & Co. By noting this fact the dissatisfaction which
follows the purchase of inferior imitations will be avoided.

DEAN STANLEY WITH THE CHILDREN. By Mrs. Frances A. Humphrey. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price
$1.00. In this tastefully printed volume are brought together five sermons to children, preached
by Dean Stanley, prefaced with a biographical sketch by Mrs. Humphrey and with an introduction
by Canon Farrar. Every reader knows what a charming man Dean Stanley was, and how ardently
he loved children, and devoted himself to pleasing them. The sermons here given are full of
exquisite tenderness, and form admirable models for discourses of like character. Canon Farrar
says that there was not one sermon ever preached by Dean Stanley which did not contain at least
some one bright, and fresh, and rememberable thing. His metaphors, his anecdotes, the invariable
felicity of his diction, his historical, literary and biographical illustrations, his invincible
habit of taking men at their best and looking out for the good in everything, the large catholicity
which rose above the mean, squabbling of religious parties, the calm of spirit which seemed
habitually to breathe in the atmosphere of whatsoever things are true, and pure, and lovely,
and of good report, made him a preacher to whom one would rather listen than to any other living
man. Mrs. Humphrey's sketch not only gives us an excellent idea of the man himself, but also
tells us many interesting things about the great English public schools. The volume is well
illustrated.

IT IS THE CHRISTMAS TIME. By Miss Mulock, with Twelve Ideal Christmas Hymns and Poems. Illustrated.
Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $2.50. Nothing more exquisite in the way of a Christmas presentation
book, or one better adapted to the spirit of the holiday season has yet been presented to the
public than the volume before us. Printed in large, clear type, on the heaviest of paper, with
broad white margins, and a series of twenty illustrations by famous American and foreign artists,
engraved in the highest style of art, it forms a book of exceptional beauty, and one of which
the publishers may well be proud. The opening poem, Miss Mulock's "Hymn for Christmas Morning,"
is followed by Naham Tate's "While Shepherds watched their Flocks by Night," a hymn which has
held place in the hearts of the people for nearly two hundred years; Wesley's stirring hymn,
"Hark, the Herald Angels Sing;" Herrick's "Star Song;" Bishop Heber's "Epiphany"--

  Brightest and Best of the Sons of the Morning;

Keble's "Christmas Hymn;" The Rev. E.H. Sears's "Angel's Song;" William Drummond's "The Angels;"
George MacDonald's "Babe Jesus;" James Montgomery's "Christmas Vision;" Wordsworth's "Christmas
Carol," and Whittier's "Christmas Carmen." All those diverse in form and expression, breathe
the one pure spirit of Christmas tide.

AMERICA. Our National Hymn. With Twelve other Patriotic Poems. Illustrated. By Rev. S.F. Smith,
D.D. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $3.00. For the past two or three years there has been
a strong demand for a new edition of this unique and elegant volume, which was originally published
in 1879. The publishers have responded to the call by its reissue the present season, the work
being extended by the addition of twelve new poems, all upon patriotic themes. The words of
America, were written fifty-two years ago, while the author was a theological student at Andover.
An American gentleman, who had spent some time in Germany, on returning home brought with him
a number of books used in the German schools, containing both words and music. These were presented
to Lowell Mason, who placed them in the hands of the young student, asking him to translate
anything he might find worthy, or to furnish original words to such music as might suit him.
In the collection was the air--unknown at that time to Americans--to which Dr. Smith set the
words now so widely known and sung. There was not the slightest idea on his part that he was
producing a national lyric, but it caught the popular taste at once, and every year has fixed
it more firmly in the hearts of the people as an expression of patriotic feeling. It was first
sung at a children's festival at Park Street Church, July 4, 1832, and very soon found its
way into district schools, Sabbath-schools, concerts and patriotic gatherings throughout the
country. Some years ago a delegation from the Boston Board of Trade sung it together at the
summit of the Rocky Mountains. It has been used at the celebration by Americans of the national
holiday in nearly every country on the globe, and served during the war to brace the hearts
and stimulate the courage of our soldiers in camp and hospital and in prison. The author's
college friends for more than fifty years made it the first song sung at their annual class dinner.

The poems which are added in the present edition include among others, "The Pilgrims," written
some years ago for Forefathers' Day; "The Flag;" "Washington;" "The Student Soldiers;" "The
Sleep of the Brave;" "Decoration Day;" "Abraham Lincoln," and "My Native Land." They are all
imbued with the fervent spirit of patriotism and represent a high poetic standard. The volume
is splendidly illustrated by Harry Fenn, Robert Lewis, and other artists of reputation.

MY CURIOSITY SHOP. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.25. The little boy or girl
who finds this book by the bedside Christmas morning, ought to be supremely happy. From cover
to cover it is filled with the most delightful stories and rhymes and pictures, all written
and drawn expressly for little readers, and by those who love them, and understand their likes
and dislikes.

WIDE AWAKE. Bound volume for 1884 Boston: D. Lathrop & Co. Price 4.00. Newspapers all parts
of the country have repeatedly given the first place in American periodical literature for
the young to WIDE AWAKE. Among its contributors are the very best and brightest writers in
America and England, and many of its articles are the same that give reputation to Harper's
and the Century. Indeed, nothing better has ever appeared in either of these periodicals than
some of the full page illustrations which have found place in WIDE AWAKE within the past two
or three years. The list of writers who are regularly employed include the best names in our
literature. It is by the liberal outlay of money on the part of the publishers, coupled with
the determination to have the best at any price, that WIDE AWAKE has reached its present high
position. The present volume, which includes the twelve numbers of the present year, is, in
general excellence, an improvement upon all preceding issues. It is a library in itself, and
will be a source of perennial pleasure to readers of all ages.

OUR LITTLE MEN AND WOMEN. 1884. Illustrated. Boston. D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. This beautiful
annual comprises the twelve numbers of the year just closing, and will make an admirable present
for the little members of the household. Its stories are just such as they will read with delight,
while the illustrations make them double attractive.

A ROMANCE IN SONG. Heine's Lyrical Interlude. Translated by Franklin Johnson, Boston: D. Lothrop
& Co. Price $3.00. The best of the modern German song-writers is unquestionably Heine, and
thousands who know and sing his verses even in their translated form can testify to their exceeding
sweetness and to their strange insight into the passions and emotions that stir the human heart.
Especially is this true of the sixty brief poems which he published in 1823 under the somewhat
singular title of "A Lyrical Interlude." What gives them special interest is the fact that
they are genuine records of his own feelings and experiences. Heine was engaged to be married
to his cousin, whom he loved deeply and ardently. She broke her vows and married another, and
Heine carried through life an unhealed spiritual wound. In the translation of these songs Mr.
Johnson has been peculiarly successful, while in all cases retaining the original measure of
the songs, he has endeavored to make an exact rendering of the thought rather than to be literal.
And yet in some cases he is both, as for instance in the much quoted Die Rose, die Lilie, die
Taube, die Sonne, and Nacht lag auf meinen Augen. The publishers have done their part to make
the volume outwardly attractive. It is printed on heavy paper, is beautifully illustrated and
handsomely bound. Coming at this season it makes an appropriate gift book. Of all the books
that have been written about housekeeping there have been few that have treated the subject
in a practical, common sense manner, and this is decidedly one of the best of the few. The
suggestions and directions contained in its pages are given in a pointed, straightforward manner,
and appeal at once to the good sense of all housekeepers who will save themselves an infinity
of trouble and worry and fret by giving them the consideration they deserve. The twenty-four
chapters of the book deal with different subjects, the all-important one, "How to make Housework
Easier," properly taking the lead. Other chapters which we especially commend to housekeepers
are those headed "A Good Breakfast," "A Bill of Waste," "A Comfortable Kitchen," "Blue Mondays,"
"Over the Mending Basket," and "Helps that are Helps." There is not a chapter, however, but
contains advice which, if heeded, would save ten times the cost of the book in a year, to say
nothing of the time and trouble saved.

MATTHEW ARNOLD BIRTHDAY BOOK. Edited by his daughters, Miss L. and K. Arnold. Boston: D. Lothrop
& Co. Price $1.00. This beautiful little volume resembles in its general plan other birthday
books, the usual blanks being left for autographs. The selections have been made with great
care, and under the direct supervision of Mr. Arnold himself, who contributes besides, an introductory
poem, which is reproduced in fac simile.

A DOUBLE MASQUERADE. By Charles R. Talbot. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.25.
Mr. Talbot's reputation as a writer of brilliant stories for young readers is well established.
Few have been more successful in striking the popular vein. The Juvenile libraries are rare
that do not contain some one or other of his books, and happy the boy or girl who possesses
them all. "A Double Masquerade" is a romance of old Revolutionary times in Boston, in which
historical characters take part. It is a careful study of the events of those days, and the
young reader will get a clearer idea from its pages of the struggle between the colonies and
Great Britain, and of the men on both sides who were leaders in the Revolutionary movement,
than from mere statistical and documentary history. One of the features of the volume is a
description of the battle of Bunker Hill, which a critic has pronounced to be "one of the most
graphic and telling accounts ever written of that famous conflict." It is splendidly illustrated
by Share, Merrill and Taylor.

YOUNG DAYS. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $.75. This very attractive volume is
made up of instructive stories for children, entertaining rhymes and verses, and most delightful
pictures.

CAMBRIDGE SERMONS.

Few publications of like character have ever been received with a greater degree of favor,
than the volume of sermons by Rev. Alexander McKenzie, D.D., of Shepard Memorial Church, Cambridge,
Mass., published under the above title by D. Lothrop & Co. The following expressions of opinion
in letters to the publishers, are indicative of the general sentiment concerning them.

Rev. Geo. L. Prentiss, D.D., Professor of Sacred Rhetoric in Union Theological Seminary, New
York City, says:

"The Cambridge Sermons have both refreshed and edified me in a high degree. They are full of
spiritual power and light and sweetness. I have read them with real delight."

Rev. Edward B. Coe, D.D., pastor of the Brick Presbyterian Church, New York City, writes:

"It is a volume which it will do any man good to read, as a broad, fresh, eminently spiritual
presentation of Christian truth. Coming from under the shadow of a great university, these
sermons are not scholastic, but in the best sense popular and practical. They show unusual
felicity of statement and illustration, and are thoroughly alive, with a keen sensibility to
the thoughts and the wants of living men. Quickening and suggestive to the mind, they have
the rarer power of touching chords of feeling which few preachers reach."

Rev. Cephas B. Crane, pastor of the First Baptist Church, Boston, says:

"The excellence of these sermons is manifold. They are such sermons as the distinguished preacher
is in the habit of giving to his people, sermons for instruction and help, and not exceptional
sermons for conspicuous occasions.

"They are structural; but the beams and braces are out of sight. They are living things supported
and shaped by their skeletons, not caged in them. Remarkable for scope and freedom and boldness,
they are guided in all their movement by the spirit of the Sacred Word. They both stimulate
thought and invigorate faith. Fresh and fragrant and breezy, one delights himself in them as
in a garden in a June morning. From their exquisite diction one might almost infer the graceful
elocution of their author. They are sermons to which the reader will often return." (12mo, $1.50.)

A HISTORY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.

The following brief extracts from the large number of favorable notices of this valuable book
show the great cordiality with which it has been received.

"We have nothing as good."--N.Y. Independent.

"The most attractive."--Boston Literary World.

"Nothing better."--Boston Transcript.

"Valuable as a book of reference."--Pittsfield Eagle.

"Its accuracy will stand."--Boston Transcript.

"Easy and readable style."--Boston Journal.

"Graceful style ... Marvellously full ... Animation of the book is a still greater marvel."--N.Y.
Independent.

"Will be read in all sections of the country with equal interest and esteem."--The South.

"The author writes with entire candor in regard to the history of the secession movement, and
yet there is nothing in his history that can properly give offence to the readers in any section
of the country."--The Capitol, Washington.

"The tone of the book is candid and impartial."--Boston Journal of Education.

"Probably the most intensely national of American histories."--The Star, N.Y.

"The style is cultured, and therefore simple and expressive."--Detroit Post and Tribune.

"The chapters form pleasing and finished pictures."--The Standard, Chicago.

"Interesting and instructive."--The Gazette, Barre, Mass.

"Admirably written."--Boston Herald.

"In the front rank." Star, N.Y.

"His [the author's] name is a household word."--The Globe, Portland, Me.

"Enough incident and romance."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

"Sustains the already established reputation of the author."--Pittsfield Eagle.

"A book of rare interest and value."--Herald and Presbyter.

"A noble picture of the grand American movement."--N.Y. Home Journal.

"The cream of the complete history."--Inter-Ocean.

"A good book and very readable."--Morning Star.

"An interesting volume."--Sabbath Recorder.

"Concise, authentic and thoroughly impartial."--Ansonia Sentinel.

"Worthy of all commendation."--Golden Rule.

"It has a backbone."--Boston Herald.

"Pleasing in style, judicious in selection of material, thorough in his investigations, impartial
in spirit, the author wins the reader's sustained attention and cordial approval."--Golden
Rule, Boston. Boston, D. Lothrop & Co., Publishers. 12mo, cloth, $1.50; crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
top, $2.50.

D. Lothrop & Co. are publishing some excellent juvenile books at low rates. They are written
by the best authors, and are intended to supplant the dime novel and Buffalo Bill style of
juvenile books. These publishers deserve the thanks of parents and guardians.--Buck's County
Intelligencer, Doylestown, Pa.

THE GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES. No collections of modern poetry have obtained or held public favor
so securely as those included in the Golden Treasury Series, a new edition of which has just
been issued by the house of D. Lothrop & Co. These various volumes made their appearance in
England at intervals, the first--which gave the series its name--having been compiled by Francis
Turner Palgrave, an English author of exquisite taste and judgment. The Ballad Book, compiled
and edited by the poet, William Allingham, followed. Later appeared The Book of Praise, edited
by Roundell Palmer, made up of selections from the best English hymn writers, and about the
same time a fourth volume, Religious Poems, an admirable selection of poems of religious life
and sentiment, was added to the series. For a time the English edition only was obtainable
in this country. Later the Messrs. Lothrop issued an American edition from new English plates,
and have since added to the series Marmion, The Lady of the Lake, Tennyson's Poems, Lays of
Ancient Rome, Pilgrim's Progress, and Minds and Words of Jesus. These words which were originally
issued at $3.00 a volume are now brought out in popular form, elegantly printed on the best
paper, beautifully illustrated and handsomely bound, the price reduced from $3.00 to $1.25
a volume. The series contains the very cream of English poetical literature, no writer of note
from the time of Shakespeare to the present being unrepresented. For a choice holiday present
to a lady, nothing is more fitting or acceptable.

BOYS AND GIRLS' ANNUAL FOR 1885. Edited by William Blair Perkins. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co.
Price, $2.50. This collection of instructive, and interesting stories, sketches, poems, biographies
and papers in natural history constitutes in itself an entire library. The entire make up is
of the most perfect character, and it is evident that no pains or expense has been spared to
make this volume every way worthy of the enterprising publisher whose name it bears, and the
host of merry, happy children, who are destined to delight in its pages. It is a fitting prelude
to the holiday season, and sets a high mark for other publishers to follow. It is one of the
books that we delight to heartily commend, for its intrinsic value is equal to its exquisite
beauty. It is just the book to head the children's Christmas list.

ÆSOP'S FABLES. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.00. These stories, though they
were told more than two thousand years ago, and have been printed in hundreds of different
editions, still retain their pristine charm, and the children of to-day read them with the
same pleasure that they did centuries ago. The present is a cheap, well-printed edition, profusely
illustrated, and the juveniles will find its contents just as enjoyable as if they were enclosed
in the costliest covers.

LITTLE FOLKS IN PICTURE AND STORY. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.00. If the
little people of the household do not fall in love with this charming collection of stories
and pictures they must be very hard to suit. It would be hard to imagine a more attractive
feast than the publishers have here spread for them, or one so thoroughly adapted to their
tastes. There are stories about cats, stories about dogs, stories about pigs, and stories about
almost everything that can be thought of to amuse very little readers, and the pictures are
every bit as charming as the stories.

CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS' ANNUAL. The "Chautauqua idea"--which is to place educational advantages
within easy reach of the multitudes so far as the young are concerned--is happily realized
in the annual publications bearing the above title.

A variety of subjects, knowledge of which is of vital importance to the future success of the
young, have been treated by famous writers especially selected for the work, and treated in
such a manner as to educate, while affording delightful entertainment. To illustrate in the
present volume for 1884, the third of the series, there are delightful lessons in Natural History,
and on the care of Flowers and Plants, and instructive facts as to Food and Drink; faithful
and suggestive sketches of Noted Men, showing how honorable success has been won in business,
literature, science, art, and public life; chapters in History, and a score and more of fascinating
stories and sketches relating to a great variety of important subjects.

If it were not for the suggestion of heaviness attached to the name, we might call these volumes
table cyclopedia, which in truth they are, full of the most valuable information, but as equally
full of fascination and interest for all readers.

Owners of No. 3 of this Chautauqua series will not rest satisfied until they possess Nos. 1
and 2. No. 1 contains the famous "Stories of Liberty," in which some of the brightest American
writers recount the efforts by which freedom has been won. In No. 2 can be found the valuable
papers by Dr. D.A. Sargent (of Harvard University) nowhere else published. Every boy in the
land should have copy, and set up his own gymnasium. Papers on the use of the Microscope, on
methods in Housekeeping, and lessons in the Useful Arts also appear in these volumes.

It will be seen that the material in these annuals is of the best, which could not fail to
be the case when prepared by such writers as Arthur Gilman, Sarah K. Bolton, Dr. D.A. Sargent,
Benjamin Vaughan Abbott, Margaret J. Preston, Amanda B. Harris, Dr. Felix L. Oswald, Ernest
Ingersoll, and others of equal repute. The present volume contains seven series of articles,
with numerous choice illustrations. Published in quarto size, handsome cloth binding, and sent
to any address for $1.50.

YOUNG FOLKS' STORIES OF FOREIGN LANDS. Edited by Pansy. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co.
Price, $1.00. Little folks who have never been abroad will find ample compensation for their
loss if they can only turn over the pages of this beautifully illustrated book of stories of
travel. There is hardly a country but is represented either by picture or poem or story, and
the contents will be a source of perpetual pleasure for young readers.

YOUNG FOLKS' STORIES OF AMERICAN HISTORY AND HOME LIFE. Edited by "Pansy." Illustrated. Boston:
D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.00. The two writers who have done the most to make this charming
book of stories what it is, are Mrs. Alden and Margaret Sidney, and what more need be said
in its praise? The title describes the scope and character of the stories, but it gives no
idea of the attractive manner in which they are written or illustrated. When a visit is made
by the boys and girls to the bookstores, we advise a careful examination of the volume.

ON THE WAY TO WONDERLAND. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, $1.25. The bright colors
of this unique book, and the sound of its rhymes chanted by mamma, will captivate the eye and
ear of the babies, whose own book it is. It contains the stories in rhyme of Wee Willie Winkie,
Little Bo-Peep, Goody Two Shoes, The Beggar King, Jack and Jill, and Banbury Cross, all gorgeously
illustrated.

THE STORY OF THE MANUSCRIPTS. In this interesting and scholarly volume Rev. George E. Merrill,
D.D., gives the whole story of the preparation and preservation of the various Scriptural books,
a record which will be read with interest not only by Biblical scholars, but by many others
to whom the main facts are unknown. The manuscripts were originally written on papyrus, numerous
copies being made in the early centuries, but in the various persecutions of the Christians
a great number of the manuscripts were wantonly destroyed. In the reign of Diocletian, in the
fourth century, there were nine years of persecution, and few of the original copies were left
intact. Great value attaches to even such manuscript transcripts as were made after the originals,
and they are carefully preserved in various libraries all over Europe. Some of these are upon
vellum, showing their great age. The closing chapter of the book is devoted to a summing up
of the opinions of the great critics on the history and credibility of the New Testament manuscripts.

As a record of facts bearing upon the history, authenticity and interpretation of the New Testament
Scriptures, this work is invaluable, and no theological library is complete without it. Information
upon the subjects treated equally comprehensive can be found in no other form so easily accessible
and at so little cost. 12mo. $1.00.

WIDE AWAKE PLEASURE BOOK, Q. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. Another volume
in the charming set of books for girls and boys, and we might almost say for men and women,
for grown people take as much delight in their pages as the younger ones. It is no disparagement
to the former issues to say that the present one surpasses them, for progress is the rule of
its publishers, and the endeavor to do things better grows more and more decided every year.
The Pleasure Book for 1884 contains stories by a score of the most popular writers of the day,
sketches of life and character, bits of biography and history, narratives of travel, poems,
charades, music, puzzles, etc. Its pages are enriched with hundreds of illustrations, drawn
and engraved expressly for its pages, making text and engravings together, one of the choicest
juvenile annuals issued by any publishing firm in the country.

A FAMILY FLIGHT AROUND HOME. By Rev. E.E. Hale and Susan Hale. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop
& Co. Price, $2.50. To those who have already made acquaintance with the former books of this
series no word of praise of the present volume is necessary. It is animated by the same spirit,
and prepared according to the same plan, and characterized by the same bright, sharp way of
putting things. Although it is not dependent upon either of its predecessors, its characters
are the same, and the reader has few new acquaintances to make. Of course the Horners are the
central figures. The scene opens in Boston, or rather in East Boston, at the wharves of the
Cunard Steamship Company, where Mr. Horner and Tom meet Hubert Vaughan, who, the reader will
remember, was left behind in Europe at the close of the preceding volume. On his arrival they
proceeded to the Hotel Vendôme, where Miss Lejeune is awaiting them, and the next day the party
start for Mr. Horner's old home in Northern Vermont. Here, and in the country surrounding,
the larger part of the summer is spent, the young people making excursions in all directions,
taking in Lake Champlain, with all its historical and romantic surroundings: the Adirondack
region, Lake George, and Schroon Lake, besides enjoying themselves nearer home in fishing and
camping out. Into the story of their experience and adventures the authors weave a great deal
of interesting local history, and in such a manner as to make a strong impression upon the
mind of young readers. The volume is brought out in the same elegant form as its predecessors,
with the same clear handsome pages and same wealth of illustration. The well-known reputation
of the authors, the racy and unconventional style of the narrative and the superb manner in
which the publishers have performed their part of the work, places the volume in the very front
rank of the choice illustrated books of the season.

ODE: INTIMATIONS OF IMMORTALITY. By William Wordsworth. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co.
Price $2.00. This beautiful volume challenges comparison with any of the medium priced presentation
books of the year. The poem itself Is one of the most perfect in the language, while the full
page illustrations which accompany it represent the most exquisite work of such artists as
F.C. Hassam, Lungren, Miss L.B. Humphrey, W.L. Taylor, W. John Harper and Smedley. Nothing
has been left undone to make a perfect book. The paper is of the finest, the print beautifully
clear, and the broad margin and elegant binding make it altogether a volume winch will attract
the eye, and satisfy the artistic taste of the book-buying public. Mr. Upton, as many readers
know, was for some years assistant Secretary of the Treasury, and, as a consequence, has a
thorough understanding of the subject upon which he writes. His book is a complete history
of American coinage and money issues, the management of national monetary affairs, and the
different legal tender acts that have been discussed or passed by Congress. Mr. Atkinson, in
his introduction, says of the book that it gives, in his judgment, the best record of legislation
in the United States yet presented in regard to coinage, to legal tender acts, and other matters
connected with our financial history. It shows in the most conclusive manner the futility of
all attempts to cause two substances to become, and to remain of the same value or estimation,
by acts of legislation. It gives a true picture of the vast injury to the welfare and to the
moral integrity of the people of this country, which ensued from the enactment of the acts
of legal tender during the late war, whereby the promise of a dollar was made equal in the
discharge of a contract to the dollar itself. It shows that the mode of collecting a forced
loan was the must costly and injurious method of taxation which could have been devised.

This book, Mr. Atkinson asserts, will prove to the mind of every thinking man that, if we persist
much longer in sustaining the acts of coinage and legal tender which now encumber the statute
book, our national credit will be impaired and all our working people, whose wages are paid
in money, will be subjected to the most injurious form of special taxation which could be devised;
it proves that a considerable portion of their wages will be taken from them under due process
of law without power of redress on their part, while the rich and astute advocates of the present
system will reap wealth which they nave not earned by taking from the laborer apart of that
which is his rightful due. It is therefore of inestimable importance as giving the general
reader a clear understanding of the real condition of things, and educating him into the right
method of thinking about these matters, which sooner or later, will have to be settled by the
voice of the people.

THE COUNTESS OF ALBANY. By Vernon Lee. Famous Women Series, Boston: Roberts Brothers. Price
$1.00. In this volume we have a biography of a once famous, now almost forgotten, person. The
Countess of Albany gained her prominence in the political and social world of the latter half
of the eighteenth century, not by any greatness of character or of achievement, but solely
by favor of Fortune; for it does appear as a compensation for the misery of her domestic life
that she was accorded a position in the world gratifying to her nature to hold. Fate certainly
owed the woman destined to live for a few years only, but those years long ones, the wife of
that Stuart known as the Pretender, many years in which she could be mistress of herself and
the recipient of kindly consideration, if not some measure of posthumous fame. The book gives
us pictures not only of the countess, but of many persons of more or less renown with whom
she was associated. We are introduced to a somewhat distinguished company of civil and ecclesiastical
officials, persons of literary and artistic tastes--men and women yet of historic note. The
pictures are sketched with great power and painted in solid. The subjects are mostly such as
would have delighted a Flemish artist to paint, and they have received true Flemish treatment.
The author displays not a little of Carlyle's power of characterization.

PLUCKY BOYS. By the author of "John Halifax, Gentleman," and other authors. Illustrated. Boston:
D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. If there is any book of the season that we can heartily commend
to boys of the stirring wide awake kind, it is this. The eighteen stories of which it consists,
are by well-known writers, all lovers of boys and admirers of pluck, truthfulness, and manliness
in them. The various young heroes described represent in their characters some particular quality
which entitles them to be classed under the title which the compiler has given the book. Mrs.
Craik's story is called "Facing the World;" Sophie May tells about "Joe and his Business Experiences;"
George Gary Eggleston contributes a sketch called "Lambert's Ferry;" Kate Upson Clark has a
story called "Granny," and there are others by authors of such reputation as Amanda B. Harris,
Sarah Orne Jewett, Mary Wager Fisher, Hope Ledyard, Susan Power, Edith Robinson, and Tarpley
Starr. The volume is bound in holiday style, and will make a capital gift book for that class
of young readers for whom it was specially prepared.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Of Marion Harland's latest book, "Cookery for Beginners," the London Saturday Review says:
"Mrs. Harland's little book shows its origin by the singular predominance of sweets (which
is, speaking roughly, about three to one), and by such odd phrases--odd, that is to say, to
an English ear--as that the chief merit of a cook is 'the ability to make good bread.' Alas!
if that be so, how many inhabitants of London, England, possess a good cook? But Mrs. Harland
is free from even a rag of national prejudice. She sternly, and with almost frightful boldness,
denies the sacred PIE so much as a place in her book, and she ventures on the following utterance,
which we purposely place in italics, and for which we hope that the eagle, whose home is in
the settin' sun, has not already torn out her eyes. 'The best way,' says this daring inhabitant
of Boston, Mass., 'to manage a boiled egg at the table [she speaks of it, it will be observed,
as if it were a kind of wild beast] is the English way of setting it upright in the small end
of the eggcup [Great powers! most Britons will cry, what is the large end of an eggcup?], making
a hole in the top [note the precision of these indications] large enough to admit the eggspoon,
and eating it from the top, seasoning it as you go.' The courage and genius of Mrs. Harland
are not more clearly indicated by this sentence than the deplorable habits of her countrymen.
She ought to be called, not Marion, but Columba. To desist from folly, however, her little
book is a very interesting and valuable one. Its receipts, though few, are given with singular
clearness and in the most practical of manners, and the mechanical value of the book is much
increased by the inclusion of a large number of blank pages for additional receipts."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The fine grade of religious books published by D. Lothrop & Co., Boston, justifies more than
a passing notice. This firm turns out yearly an immense number of books of the choicest quality,
and at all prices to suit the needs of Sunday-schools throughout the land. It has been the
aim of the publishers to employ none but the best writers for these books, realizing it a most
important part of Church work to provide for the needs of this large class. Mingling intellectual
strength with deep religious feeling, at the same time the publishers strive to make the books
interesting and attractive. For an untold number of examples prove that children and youth
will not read religious or moral teaching presented in a dry manner, and why should they? Full
of life and vigor, and overflowing with intense energy in every part of their nature, these
young people require something healthfully to inspire to this force within them. If they do
not find it in the natural avenues of the Sunday-school or the town library, they will elsewhere,
in questionable literature--an indulgence in which results in a feverish taste for excitement.
To help these young people develop into strong men and women, D. Lothrop & Co. have put forth
every effort, sparing no expense. A glance at their Catalogue will give an idea of what they
have been doing in this department."--The Messenger, Phila.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Amanda B. Harris' last work, the Advance says: "Pleasant Authors for Young Folks is a delightful
little book. The name of its author is sufficient to attract many readers who have been pleased
with her 'Wild Flowers' and other books and sketches. These 'Little Biographies' of Walter
Scott, Charles Lamb, Charles Kingsley, Dr. John Brown, George MacDonald, Dinah Mulock-Craik,
John Ruskin, Charlotte Bronté and others, are made up of stories and incidents from the lives
of these writers, bits of criticism and gems of extracts, put together as deftly and skilfully
and making as fine and polished a whole as a Roman mosaic of the temple of Vesta. Such a delicious
bit of a book as this in the hands of a boy or girl is worth more as an incitement to reading
and an education of literary taste than many a library of a thousand volumes."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Every day we see that there is an absolute necessity for giving good books to our children.
We cannot begin too early to cultivate a taste for healthful literature. The recent developments
in several cities must call the attention of all careless parents to this fact. The influence
of bad books upon children is so apparent as to be startling, and the boy who went armed to
school last week in Pittsburg and gave his name to his teacher as 'Schuykill Jack,' is only
one of a large number of weak-headed boys who have been depraved by reading these stories which
they ought never to have seen. Do not consider it lost or wasted time during which you read
to your boy; perhaps no other hours in your life are so wisely used, and it will not be without
its fruit, you may be perfectly sure. Do not always read down to your children: they appreciate
higher and deeper thoughts than you sometimes think they do."--New York Evening Post.

       *       *       *       *       *

A "School of Library Economy" has just been established in Columbia College, to be opened in
October, 1886. The object includes "all the special training needed to select, buy, arrange,
catalogue, index, and administer in the best and most economical way any collection of books,
pamphlets, or serials." The instruction is to be given by "lectures, reading, the Seminar,
visiting libraries, problems, and work." We shall watch with interest this new species of technical
school.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAW IN EASY LESSONS.

"It is manifest that such a manual as Every Man His Own Lawyer would be a snare to the unwary,
because it does not content itself with teaching the reader what to avoid, but professes to
guide him in the labyrinthian paths of substantive law and technical procedure. It is equally
clear, however, that a rudimentary acquaintance with the main principles of jurisprudence is
indispensable to those who purpose to mingle in active life at all, and discharge the most
familiar duties of the citizen. But law books are not inviting to the general reader--we may
imagine, indeed, that Blackstone has rather lost than gained in the esteem of his professional
brethren by the attempt to make his commentaries an exception to the rule--and the volumes
may be counted on the fingers which are at once entertaining and trustworthy compends of legal
lore. To the meagre collection of attractive introductions to this subject an addition has
recently been made by BENJAMIN VAUGHAN ABBOTT in a couple of brochures, respectively called
The Travelling Law School and Famous Trials, which are published in one volume by D. Lothrop
& Co. The book is ostensibly written for boys, but it may be heartily commended to adult readers
of both sexes. It is surprising how much sound law the author manages to insinuate in the guise
of interesting incidents and pleasing anecdotes. Even they who are sickened by the scent of
sheepskin and law calf, and who would as soon think of entering on a course of Calvinistic
theology as on a study of jurisprudence, will imbibe through the author's cheerful narrative
a good many useful notions of their legal rights and duties, just as children are persuaded
to swallow an aperient in the shape of prunes or figs.

"In 'The Travelling Law School,' as the name implies, the reader is invited to accompany a
party of young students in a tour through several of the Atlantic States, the incidents of
the journey suggesting succinct accounts of the main features of Federal, State, and municipal
law. A much larger sum of information can be thus informally conveyed in about a hundred pages
than would at first sight be deemed possible; and notwithstanding the suspicion with which
lawyers are apt to regard the transmission of knowledge through such a pleasant medium, we
are able to vouch in this instance for its accuracy. We have been particularly struck by the
light which the author manages to throw, in a quick, unaffected way, on the characteristic
features of the American Constitution. This he does by illustrations drawn from the organic
laws of other countries possessing parliamentary institutions, and his references, on the whole,
are singularly exact, though he might perhaps have laid more stress on the centralizing tendencies
which survive in the executive branch of the French republican Government.

"The plan followed in 'Famous Trials' is to take a given topic, like forgery, confessions,
mistaken identity or circumstantial evidence and to illustrate the points best worth remembering
by some actual and interesting case in which they were strikingly brought out.

"The instance of mistaken identity described by Mr. Abbott at some length is really much more
curious than the Tichborne case, though the affair, having taken place many years ago in France,
has been almost totally forgotten. The true husband's name was Martin Guerre, a man of fair
social position and some property, who, after living happily with his wife Bertrande for about
a dozen years, disappeared suddenly, and nothing was heard of him for eight years. At the end
of that time the same Martin Guerre, as all the town people supposed, came back, recognizing
his old neighbors and friends, and looking just as he used, except that he had grown stouter
and sunburned. His wife also recognized him as readily as did his neighbors, and gave him an
affectionate welcome. To innumerable questions about occurrences in old times, he returned
satisfactory and explicit answers. To his wife, in particular, he rehearsed incidents of past
years that had completely faded from her memory. When they awoke, for instance, on the morning
after his arrival, he asked her to 'Bring me my white breeches trimmed with white silk; you
will find them at the bottom of the large beech chest under the linen.' She had long forgotten
the breeches and even the box, but she found them just as he had described. In the face of
such evidence it seemed impossible to doubt that this man was the genuine Martin Guerre. Yet
he proved after all to be an impostor, whose real name was Arnauld Du Tilh. Yet strange as
it may seem, on the impostor's trial, although confronted with the man whom he was personating,
he was able to answer questions about the past life of the Guerre family more minutely and
accurately than the rightful claimant. Being disavowed, however, by the great majority of witnesses,
including the wife, on the appearance of her true husband, he was sentenced to death for his
fraud. Before his execution he made a confession, saying that some intimate friends of Martin
Guerre, misled by the astonishing resemblance, had accosted him by that name, which gave him
the idea of claiming Guerre's position and property; and that he had gained his intimate knowledge
of Guerre's life partly from Guerre himself, whom he had known slightly in the army, and partly
from several common acquaintances. With this slender outfit of material he came within an ace
of effecting his design, thanks to an exceptionally tenacious and ready memory."--Extract from
notice in "New York Daily Sun," of "The Travelling Law School." D. Lothrop & Co. $1.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN BOOKS IN ENGLAND.

The cordial reception awarded to the best class of American books in England, is indicated
by the following notices from the Oldham Evening & Weekly Chronicle of October 4:

"FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS AND HOW THEY GREW. By Margaret Sidney. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. This gorgeously
got up and profusely and beautifully illustrated volume is one of engrossing interest. All
the characters are skilfully drawn, the events are interestingly marshalled, and the plot most
naturally developed. For humour and pathos, for sympathy yet fidelity, for loftiness of tone
yet simplicity of style, this charming volume has few superiors. Here and there it reminds
us of Mark Twain, anon of Dickens, and often of George Eliot, for the authoress has many of
the strong points of all these writers. Such wholesome and bracing literature as this may well
find its place in all our homes. It is a tale of a high order, and is a real study of life.
It is fresh, breezy, bracing. It is strengthening and enthralling."

"CAMBRIDGE SERMONS. By Rev. Alexander McKenzie. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. This neatly and strongly
got up volume consists of sixteen fresh, vigorous, chatty, colloquial sermons. The author has
the solidity of the Scotch teacher, and the polish and beauty of the English preacher combined
with the freedom, the raciness, interest, and the freshness of the American pulpit orator.
These discourses are orations which were delivered extemporaneously and taken down by a shorthand
writer. Hence they are homely, yet eloquent; natural, yet cultivated, and come right home to
the hearts of the readers. No one could tire reading these sermons. They are as racy as a magazine
article, as instructive as a lecture, and as impressive and lofty as a message from God. They
are thoroughly American for their fearlessness, their living energy, and their originality.
Sermons of this high order are sure to be in demand."

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD READING.

A glance at the way reading is generally taught in our schools will convince any impartial
observer that this subject is made the driest and dreariest of all studies. In our graded schools,
children generally read, on an average, an hour a day during the eight or nine years' course,
at the rate of less than one book a year. The average child easily learns by heart in a few
weeks all there is in the first three books, after that the constant repetitions are in the
highest degree monotonous. There is nothing to attract his attention or stimulate his love
for reading. The selections filling fourth, fifth and sixth readers are too often far above
the mental grasp of the pupil, and are also of so fragmentary a nature as to be almost unintelligible
to the average student. Word pronouncing, and that alone, is the only refuge of the teacher.

There can be no excuse on account of the cost, for the money now thrown away, and worse than
thrown away, upon useless spelling books and mind-stupefying grammars, would purchase a rich
supply of the best reading matter the English language affords for every school in the land.

I have tried this experiment, and to my mind it is no longer an experiment. I have seen the
children of the poorest and most ignorant parents taking from the library works upon history,
travels, biography, and the very best fiction, exhibiting in their selection excellent taste,
and showing from their manner how much they love such books. They would no more choose bad
reading than they would choose bad food when wholesome is provided for them. Shameful neglect,
I repeat, and not innate depravity, drives our children into by-ways and forbidden paths. Let
no one preach long sermons on the depraved tendencies of the young until he has tried this
simple, cheap, and practical way of avoiding an unnecessary evil.--F.W. Parker.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Golden Text Calendar, arranged by A.C. Morrow, editor of The Illustrator of the International
Sunday-school lessons, with designs by Mary A. Lathbury, is specially adapted as a holiday
gift. Beautifully lithographed and printed in nine colors. It contains the Golden Text for
every Sunday, and more than fifteen hundred quotations from the best authors. The background
of the calendar is of sprays of apple blossoms. To the right of the pad the passing of time
is represented by the flight of birds and an angel bearing an hour-glass. To the left, a young
girl, with light flowing hair, stands beneath the branches of a tree, gathering pink and yellow
hollyhocks. The design is worthy of the artist, and the literary selections reflect credit
upon the editor. Price, $1.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

BABYLAND. The Boston Daily Globe says: "One need not concern herself about the 'Chatterbox,'
or any of the annuals made up in England for American youth, when there are better books, in
adaptability of matter to age, in engravings, paper and press-work, close by her at home. The
mother may find a number of annuals published in this country which will suit her taste and
purpose much better, and she ought always to give them the preference. BABYLAND for 1884 is
in all respects a desirable publication for the youngest readers. Its songs and stories, its
speaking pictures and its general attractiveness always win the smiles of little folks."

       *       *       *       *       *

An interesting and suggestive little treatise on the "Care and Feeding of Infants," has been
published by Doliber, Goodale & Co., Boston, who will send a specimen copy free to any address.

       *       *       *       *       *

"AN ADMIRABLE BOOK."

The Literary World, in a critical review of one of D. Lothrop & Co.'s recent publications,
The Travelling Law School, says:--"Mr. B.V. Abbott's object, in the second volume of the Business
Boys' Library, is to give a series of first lessons on forms of government and principles of
law. This is done by means of a very slight framework of imagination, a large amount of anecdote
and illustration, a singularly lucid explanatory style, and a fullness of knowledge that 'backs'
the narrative with manifest strength. The Travelling Law School is a fictitious body, taken
about from place to place; all the objects and experiences encountered on the journey being
examined in their legal aspects and relations, and their functions as such pointed out. Things
that one can own are discriminated from things that are common property; Boston, New York,
and Washington are differentiated in their civil and political bearings; the laws of the streets
and the railroads, of money and the banks, of wills, evidence, fraud, and so forth and so on,
are expounded by means of 'famous trials' and otherwise in an ingenious, always entertaining,
and thoroughly instructive manner. We do not see why a course of instruction along the line
of such topics as these would not be a wise feature in many schools of the higher grade, for
which Mr. Abbott's book would be an admirable text-book. The study of such a book would be
in the nature of a recreation, so full is it of matters of living interest, while of its practical
value there could be only one opinion. Structurally it is in two parts, the second of which,
entitled 'Famous Trials,' is separately paged." 12mo, $1.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

A STANDARD GIFT BOOK.

A new edition of Arthur Oilman's The Kingdom of Home is announced by the publishers, and will
form a strong attraction for holiday book-buyers. No poetical anthology has been received by
the general public with such favor as this, and the reason is not far to seek. It contains
the choicest poems on home subjects ever brought together, and the merits of its selections
and pictures will keep it perennially in demand as one of the best gift books in the long catalogue
of household treasures. The illustrations are abundant and exquisite. There are full page pictures,
tiny ones, panel ones, head pieces, end pieces; some woven into the text, some the key-note
of the stanzas, some of broad suggestions, some of quaint conceit. All subjects that bring
up home associations are pictorially told in what, as to the rule, is the best of engraving.
The old water-wheel is there, making music in the village glen; the limpid stream winding near
the farmhouse; the spinning-wheel, "merrily, noisily, cheerily whirring;" the baby of the home
saying her evening prayer, and John asleep beneath the summer boughs. Everything that clusters
about the fireside, breathes in farewells, sings in marriage and throbs in love, finds embodiment.
The idea of home comprises everything we hold dear--wife, children, friends; the roof that
covers us, and the things we have learned to love about us. It lies at the very foundation
of religion, and our ideal of heaven is simply a home. It is the love of home which strengthens
us to endure toil, privation and suffering, and thousands in all ages have met death willingly
to sustain the sanctity of their hearthstones. There is not a poet who has lived since the
dawn of historic times who has not sung its praises, and from the vast amount of literature
which has thus grown up, the contents of the present work have been selected. The compiler
has shown rare judgment in the performance of his task, he justly says that the treatment of
this subject has not been confined to the great poets. "It is not the poetry of the intellect,
but of the heart; and many who have been eloquent on no other theme, have sung the praises
of home in a way that has touched the hearts of thousands." The collection, therefore, includes
not only the productions of the masters, but those of many a minor poet as well. The paper
is beautifully white and clear, the margin liberal, and the binding at once chaste and elegant.
It will make a book for the household; "one not for a day, but for all time." 8mo, Russia leather,
seal grain, $6.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

A SPECIAL LETTER.

As an indication of the great interest aroused by the matter of one of the recent publications
of D. Lothrop & Co., while it was passing through the WIDE AWAKE magazine in serial form, we
print the following letter written from BROOKLINE, Mass., and dated Oct. 6, 1884, and signed
"A well wisher."

    DEAR WIDE AWAKE:

    We have read with great interest the "Anna Maria Housekeeping
    Talks," and think you could not do a better work than to publish
    them in a cheap form, so as to be within the reach of almost any
    one, and so ladies could buy them for their servants to read, It
    cannot fail of success, it seems to me. The "talks" are too good
    to have their light "hid under a bushel," and ought to be in the
    hands of every one who has a house in charge, whether servant or
    mistress.

In accordance with the general desire expressed in this and similar letters, the publishers
have presented the papers in an attractive 16mo volume, published at $1.00. The subjects treated
of embrace directions for the table and kitchen departments, the general arrangement and adornment
of rooms, matters of dress and domestic economy, and numberless small details which every young
girl will desire to be posted upon, and which even trained housekeepers are often grateful
for being reminded of.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOTHROP'S ILLUSTRATED POEMS.

Among selections of the choicest works of best authors, in this department, are George Eliot's
story of HOW LISA LOVED THE KING, and her splendid hymn, O MAY I JOIN THE CHOIR INVISIBLE;
Tennyson's MAUD, AND OTHER POEMS, also THE BROOK, AND OTHER POEMS; Adelaide Procter's beautiful
poem THE LOST CHORD; the favorite Christian songs, THE NINETY AND NINE, and JESUS, LOVER OF
MY SOUL; and the popular song, THE OLD OAKEN BUCKET. Each volume in this Series is furnished
in elegant cloth bindings, or fringed floral bindings at $1.50 each.

LOTHROP'S POPULAR LIBRARY EDITIONS.

Book lovers whose critical judgment extends to the binding as well as to the contents of a
volume, will find something quite to their taste in Lothrop's new list of Illustrated Library
Editions, which includes a selection of favorites presented in a form most acceptable to gift-makers,
and very desirable for library use. The illustrations are by notable artists, and admirably
suited to the text. In this class may be mentioned among others the volumes named below, which
are published in 8vo form, extra cloth, in morocco, full gilt, at the wonderfully low prices
indicated.

POETS' HOMES. The desire of multitudes to know something of the home life of the poets whose
verses have become familiar in every household, will find gratification in the attractive one-volume
edition of the delightful sketches edited by R.H. Stoddard, Arthur Gilman, and others, under
the title of POETS' HOMES. It contains appreciative chapters upon Bryant, Longfellow, Whittier,
Trowbridge, Lowell, Homes, Bayard Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. Piatt, Stedman, Aldrich, and other poets
of reputation. The homes of these poets are described in charming sketches, many of which are
accompanied by portraits and other illustrations. Cloth, $4.00, Morocco, $8.00.

HAYNE'S POEMS. The welcome accorded to the first edition of the "Poetical Works of Paul H.
Hayne," has led to the publication of a new edition. The critical estimate of Mr. Hayne's works,
favorable from the outset, accords him a place among the few American writers whose works are
likely to have a permanent place in public favor. As has been appreciatively said, "He is a
songster of the Southern groves, and having built a nest in the wild wood (referring to his
country home at Copse Hill), he is content in the companionship of his mate and his young,
warbling to nature and to nature's God. If his notes reach beyond his sylvan hall, and fall
upon ears without its wall, and plaudits of approval come in return, he trills responsively
a grateful melody, and resumes his solo as he would do had no encore greeted him." Cloth, $4.00,
Morocco, $7.00.

In the same attractive bindings, are the following complete Works of FAMOUS POETS at uniform
prices, extra cloth, full gilt, $3.00. Morocco, full gilt, $6.00.

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE. Edited, with a critical Biography, by William Michael Rossetti. With an
essay on the Chronology of Shakespeare's Plays, by Edward Dowden, LL. D. A History of the Drama
in England to the Time of Shakespeare, by Arthur Gilman, M.A. A Critical Introduction to each
Play, by Augustus W. Von Schlegel. An Essay on Shakespeare's Indebtedness to the Bible, a List
of early editions to Shakespeare's Plays; an Index to noteworthy Scenes; an Index to all the
Characters; a List of the Songs in the Plays; an Index to familiar Quotations, and a carefully
prepared Glossary, Shakespeare's Will, etc. The above illustrative matter makes this the best-furnished
one-volume edition in the market.

LORD BYRON, with portrait, correspondence, and notes, by Sir John Gilbert, W.J. Linton and others.

ROBERT BURNS. With portrait, correspondence and notes, edited by Allan Cunningham.

GOETHE. Translated in the original metres by Edgar Alfred Browning, C.B.

JEAN INGELOW. Including "The Shepherd Lady." 400 pages.

LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL, MARMION, and LADY OF THE LAKE.

Lord Macaulay's LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. With IVRY and the ARMADA. With illustration by Wequelin.

OWEN MEREDITH (Robert, Lord Lytton). "Lucille," "The Apple of Life," "The Wanderer," etc.

JOHN MILTON. With Memoir, Introduction and Notes, by David Masson, M.A., LL. D.

THOMAS MOORE. Unabridged. With explanatory notes.

ADELAIDE A. PROCTER. There are, in this volume, gems of as noble and perfect poetry as in any
language.--London Athenæum.

JOHANN C.F. VON SCHILLER. The finest one-volume edition of the works of this favorite poet.

SIR WALTER SCOTT. Including introduction and notes.

PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY. "No poet was ever warmed by a more genuine or unforced inspiration."

ALFRED TENNYSON. Including all the latest poems. Illustrated by Gustave Doré, W. Holman Hunt
and others.

LOTHROP'S GOLDEN TREASURY SERIES.

This series presents a selection of books, remarkable for the rare and enduring value of their
contents, and made additionally attractive by the form in which they are published. The volumes
are of the semi-square shape which offers such excellent opportunities for the best effects
in simple but elegant typography and binding, and the results will be in the highest degree
satisfactory to all lovers of handsome books. The series takes its name from the book first
upon the list.

THE GOLDEN TREASURY, edited by Francis Turner Palgrave, consists of selections made with rare
discrimination from the very best of English songs and lyrical poems.

IN THE BOOK OF PRAISE, Sir Roundell Palmer, with a just appreciation of their merits and a
devout sympathy with their spirit, has brought together, from the range of English hymns, those
which are worthy of a permanent place in public favor.

THE BALLAD BOOK, edited with no less painstaking care, and excellence in judgment, by William
Allingham, includes an unsurpassed selection of the representative ballads which have won fame
and favor for the bards of Britain. In no other form is so rare and pleasing a collection of
British ballads to be found.

Of the volume which includes those masterpieces of Sir Walter Scott, MARMION, LADY OF THE LAKE,
AND THE LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL, no explanatory words are necessary. These poems in the future,
as in the past, will hold undisputed place among the gems of classic literature.

The popularity of England's Poet Laureate makes it equally unnecessary to more than present
the title of the next volume upon the list, THE COMPLETE WORKS OF TENNYSON.

Lord Macaulay's LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME, IVRY, and the ARMADA, is another volume upon which comment
is needless.

RELIGIOUS POEMS is an admirable selection, reflecting the life and sentiments of the Christian
believer.

IN THE MIND AND WORDS OF JESUS, by Rev. T.R. Macduff, we have a masterly interpretation of
the thoughts and utterances of the Divine Teacher, so full of deep insight, of spirituality,
and helpfulness, as to seem little less than inspired.

This series of standard books would be incomplete without the name of Bunyan and his PILGRIM'S
PROGRESS, which concludes the list.

Each volume is beautifully illustrated and printed on the finest paper. To their other excellent
features is added a price which cannot fail to make them popular. Vellum, cloth, $1.25 each. 8 vo.

Side by Side, 16mo, 60c. " " " No. 9, 50 vols., 25.00 net. " " " No. 10, 12 vols., 5.00 net. " " "

HELP FOR SUNDAY-SCHOOL CONCERTS. By A.P. and M.T. Folsom. 16mo, $1.00.

D. LOTHROP & CO.

FRANKLIN AND HAWLEY STREETS, BOSTON.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WE HAVE NOTHING AS GOOD."--N.Y. Independent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arthur Gilman's History of the American People.

    The publishers embrace the opportunity afforded by the
    publication of the SIXTH THOUSAND of this important work to
    bring together a few extracts from the large number of
    commendatory reviews that it has been favored with. They exhibit
    a singular unanimity of opinion.

       *       *       *       *       *

"On its own ground, and for its clearly defined purpose, we have nothing as good, are not likely
to have. It begins a long step back of the beginning, with Plato's Atlantis, tells the story
of Columbus, Cabot and the other explorers, or the Aborigines, of the French and Spanish settlements,
and so finds its way to the English colonies, the war for independence, and down through the
long history to the recent events of President Arthur's administration. Considering the general
brevity of the book, it is marvellously full; and considering the long story to be told, crowded
with fact and detail; the graceful style, warm coloring and general lifelike animation of the
books is a still greater marvel.

"Mr. Gilman writes with a happy pen which never fumbles for a word, and has the knack of saying
a thing accurately, concisely and gracefully. He lights up his pages with items gleaned from
rare sources. He puts in telling and characteristic facts. He is good in topography, and makes
a skilful and judicious use of local antiquarian lore. He is an intelligent reporter of debates,
who knows how to condense the strong and vital points of a long history. He is neither shy
nor timid in expressing his opinion on controverted questions, but carries such a happy art
in his boldness that it will never lose him a reader. His account of the constitutional debate
and of the political situation at the close of the Revolutionary War, and the brief touches
in the subsequent development of political history, are done well. Working very much on the
general lines and methods of Mr. Green, in his history of the English people, he notes the
progress of the arts of life, of literature, education and social life, and in discussing political
affairs, brings, them up to the high standard of independent liberalism. The book is well manufactured,
with good paper and open, clear type."--New York Independent.

"Mr. Gilman has rehearsed the interesting and wonderful story of the people of these United
States in a clear and concise way, and has enlivened the narrative by extracts from letters,
diaries, newspapers and other contemporary writings.... The book opens with a condensed and
accurate account of the early voyages of discovery and exploration, beginning with that of
Columbus; and among the subjects presented with a reasonable degree of fulness may be enumerated
the efforts towards union form 1637 to the adoption of the Constitution, and the nature and
influence of the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions of 1798 and 1799.... The growth of the feeling
of nationality is well brought out.... The slavery struggle is well described.... The last
chapter in the book, on the 'Era of Progressive National Life,' is exceptionally well written....
The most agreeable portions of the volume, however, are those wherein the habits and manners
of the past are described.... The books contains very many (173) wood-cuts which have been
selected with great care and god judgment.... An excellent index closes the book, and the publishers
are to be congratulated on the mechanical excellence of the volume. In fine, it is the most
attractive one-volume History of the United States that we have seen."--Boston Literary World.

"Mr. Gilman aims at something more than a literary production. He is by training and instinct
an educator. This story of the people's life will foster a genuine love of country by the wholesome
method of instruction.... The contents are succinctly massed; the statements embody facts,
not speculations. It is a book that will be popular and it is written for popular acceptance,
yet its accuracy will stand. Nothing better exists as a compendium of our country's history,
if in a compendium we desire not figures and facts only, but the flesh and blood reality of
living history."--Boston Transcript.

"This work sustains the already established reputation of the author. The extreme care with
which the facts have been collated, and the attention shown to the latest results of investigation
and discussion even in minor matters, make it very valuable as a book of reference."--Berkshire
Co. Eagle.

"The author shows rare tact and wisdom."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

"Bring out on the canvas a noble picture of the grand American movement."--New York Home Journal.

"The chapters form pleasing and finished pictures, one by one, of the various stages in our
national career. It is a good book for out-loud reading at the home fireside."--Chicago Standard.

"Probably the best history of the United States that has appeared in a single volume."--Detroit
Post and Tribune.

"Fascinating."--Cleveland Leader.

"Thoroughly interesting."--Portland Globe.

"The social and political history of the people of America is told with point and brevity,
and yet with a wealth of incident and ease of style that ensure interest and charm to the narrative....
It is the most interesting compendious history that we have ever read."--Outing and The Wheelman.

"By far the best history of our country ever published in one volume. In fact there is more
in it than there is in any large history, except, perhaps, Bancroft and Hildreth, and even
in these the majority of readers can never get the facts so nicely arranged and so neatly formulated....
I say without any reserve that there is no other history of the United States comparable with
this."--J.W. Heston, Pres't Pennsylvania State College.

       *       *       *       *       *

12mo, cloth, illustrated, $1.50; Crown, 8vo, cloth, illustrated, gilt top, $2.50.

D. LOTHROP AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, FRANKLIN STREET, BOSTON MASS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIOGRAPHICAL AND RELIGIOUS.

Baptism in Fire (The).

By REV. O.E. SMITH. A very thoughtful book, stimulating and suggestive. It meets a long recognized
want of some work on the Holy Spirit which should take account of the deeper manifestations
of its power. 16mo, cloth. $1.25.

*Cambridge Sermons.

By ALEXANDER MCKENZIE, D.D. Fresh living thought from the pen of one of the most eloquent American
divines. 12mo, extra cloth, $1.50.

Gethsemane:

Or, Meditations and Prayers on the Last Hours of the Sufferings and Death of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ. Translated from the German of CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH NEBELIN. Large 16mo, $1.25.

Helps and Hindrances to the Cross

By MRS. LESLIE. Its helpful lessons are incorporated in a charming story. 12mo, illustrated, $1.25.

How to Conduct Prayer Meetings,

By REV. LEWIS O. THOMPSON. A practical book of great value. 12mo, $1.25.

Light at Evening Time.

Or, Jewels from God's Word. Very large type. Introduction by THEODORE L. CUYLER, D.D. Quarto,
cloth binding,$150; leather, $2.50.

Lord's Day Rescued (The).

By ALEXANDER SESSIONS, with introduction by HENRY M. DEXTER, D.D. 16mo, cloth, $.60.

Living Truths. (SPARE MINUTE SERIES.)

From CHARLES KINGSLEY. Edited by E.E. Brown, with an introduction by W.D. Howells. 12mo, cloth,
gilt top, $1.00.

Life of Edward Norris Kirk, D.D.

By DAVID O. MEARS, D.D. A limited edition on large paper. 432 pages, 8vo, $2.50.

*Not of Man, but of God.

By REV. JACOB M. MANNING, D.D., pastor of the Old South Church, Boston. Invaluable and timely
sermons on the evidences of Christianity, the ripe work of this eminent scholar and distinguished
preacher. 12mo, extra cloth, $1.25.

Our Sabbath Evening.

By A.A. HOPKINS. square, 16mo, $1.25.

Prayer-Meeting and its Improvement (The).

By REV. LEWIS O. THOMPSON. It gives most wise and helpful suggestions. 16mo, $1.25.

Seven Words from the Cross.

By REV. WM. H. ADAMS. 12mo, $1.00.

Still Hour; OR, COMMUNION WITH GOD.

By PROF. AUSTIN PHELPS, D.D. New edition, cloth extra, 60 cents. Dark Leatherette binding,
gilt edges, $1.00. Seal grain leather, $1.50.

Story of the Manuscripts.

With fac-simile illustrations of the various New Testament Manuscripts. By REV. GEORGE E. MERRILL,
12mo, cloth, $1.00.

*Life of Oliver Wendell Holmes.

By E.E. BROWN, author of "Life of Washington," "Life of Garfield," etc. Aside from the interest
attached to the name of the subject it is a biography of unusual merit. It has also the approval
of Doctor Holmes, who has furnished the author with much valuable material. 12mo, $1.50.

*Life Of Charles XII. KING OF SWEDEN.

By M. DEVOLTAIRE. With portrait. 12mo, extra cloth, $1.50.

*Life of Nelson.

By ROBERT SOUTHEY. With illustrations by Birket Foster. Clear and concise; a manual for the
young sailor, this book will interest all who admire the great naval hero. $1.50.

*Life of Paul.

By D.H. TAYLOR. A most readable as well as accurate presentation of the life of the illustrious
Apostle. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, $1.50.

*Life of Queen Victoria.

By GRACE GREENWOOD. That she has fulfilled her task in the most graceful and fascinating manner
all will admit who read the pages of this delightfully interesting life. 12 me, cloth, illustrated,
$1.50.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

IN CLOTH BINDINGS, FULLY ILLUSTRATED.

A Book about Baby, AND OTHER POEMS IN COMPANY WITH CHILDREN.

By MRS. S.M.B. PIATT. Mrs. Piatt is acknowledged the poet of Motherhood and Childhood, and
the sweetest and happiest of her verses lies between these two dainty covers. Small Quarto,
illustrated, $1.00.

Achor.

By MRS. S.R. GRAHAM CLARK. A story of great interest, and characterized by marked freshness
and originality. \12mo, cloth, $1.50.

Æsop's Fables Versified.

By MRS. CLARA DOTY BATES, author of "Classics of Babyland," "Child Lore," etc. With seventy-two
full-page illustrations by Garrett, Lungren, Sweeney, Barnes, and Hassam. Mrs. Bates has here
done for the Immortal old Fables the same fortunate service which some years ago she did for
the old nursery tales, knowing that graceful rhyme and jingle are great aids both to memory
and imagination. The illustrations for this handsome volume have never been surpassed in grace
and vigor. $3.00.

Boy's Workshop (A).

By A BOY AND HIS FRIENDS. With an introduction by Henry Randall Waite. A fascinating little
volume full of practical ideas for the benefit of boys who are getting their first training
in the use of tools. Its directions are explicit and trustworthy from the buying of the first
hammer to the construction of a cabinet. Its chapters are not wholly confined to carpentry,
but give detail instruction in other matters dear to the boyish heart, such as the making of
bows and arrows, preserving "collections," and making anglers' flies, etc., etc. It will prove
an admirable help in the direction of industrial training. $1.00.

Children's Etiquette.

By SHIRLEY DARE. 16mo, paper, $.50; cloth, $1.00.

Daisy Green Stories (The).

By MRS. SUSIE BISBEE. All fond mothers will be greatly interested in the quaint sayings and
child-like adventures of the little "Daisy" of this book. 16mo, cloth, $.80.

Dean Stanley with the Children.

By MRS. FRANCES A. HUMPHREY. Very fully illustrated. This choice volume contains Dean Stanley's
famous Christmas Sermons to children, a beautiful account of the Dean's own life as a boy at
home, and at Rugby, his relations with other boys, and also much entertaining matter relating
to the celebrated English schools at Rugby and Westminster, and to the Abbey itself. It is
illustrated with portraits, views of various Abbey interiors, sketches of Westminster and Rugby
boys, and other fine engravings, historical and modern. It also gives as an introduction to
the five charming sermons a fine chapter by Canon Farrar, regarding the Dean in the pulpit,
as both writer and orator, with a touching account of the delivery of his last sermon, 12mo, $1.00.

Double Masquerade (A).

By REV. CHAS. R. TALBOT. Illustrated by Share, Merrill, and Taylor. A stirring romance of the
American Revolution, with illustrations made from careful studies of old Boston. Extra cloth,
12mo, $1.25.

Hedge Fence (A).

By PANSY. Here is a story of the haps and mishaps of the typical boy whose purposes are good,
but whose impetuosity plunges him into all kinds of mischief, as the boy himself expresses
it, "before he knows it." One of the boys of this book, ruefully reflecting on the results
of a boyish scrape, wishes for something like a hedge fence to keep him from running into trouble.
In a manner which will be delightfully entertaining and helpful to all boys (and girls for
that matter), Pansy tells us how the hero of her story found a hedge which stood between him
and mischief. The book will benefit and please every boy who reads it, or to whom it is read.
16mo, 60 cents.

History of the United States in Rhyme.

By EGBERT C. ADAMS, author of "The History of England in Rhyme," "On Board the Rocket," etc.
Attractively written. It will assist all young people to fix important events of American history
in their memory. 16mo, cloth, 60 cents.

How They went to Europe.

By MARGARET SIDNEY. Gives numberless suggestions for the entertaining of young people on the
long winter evenings, stimulating them in the idle hours, and drawing them within the sweet,
healthful atmosphere of home. 16mo, illustrated, $1.00.

Milly's Little Wanderer.

By MRS. SUSIE A. BISBEE, author of "Daisy Green Stories." The scene of this story is laid in
the most picturesque of New England surroundings, and the book abounds in sprightly incidents,
while holding steadily to its moral and spiritual purpose. 12mo, $1.25.

New Year's Tangles, AND OTHER STORIES.

By PANSY. Very fully illustrated. Fresh, instructive, and entertaining, 12mo, 256 pages, $1.00.

Old Caravan Days.

By MRS. MARY HARTWELL CATHERWOOD. With 36 illustrations by H. Pruett Share. A graphic record
of other days long before the time of Western railroads, giving the exciting adventures and
experiences of a family moving to Illinois, drawn faithfully to the life. 12mo, cloth, $1.25.

Our Business Boys.

A little pocket volume for every cash boy, every young clerk, and every trade-learner in the
land. 16mo, $.60.

Pleasant Authors.

By AMANDA B. HARRIS. Biographies of Sir Walter Scott, Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Dr. John Brown,
Mary Russell Mitford, etc. For young people. Fourth volume of the Reading Union Library. An
admirable guide for young people, to whatever is best and most enjoyable in standard English
literature. It should be in every family. Illustrated, 16mo, $1.00.

Plucky Boys. BUSINESS BOYS' LIBRARY.

By the author of "John Halifax, Gentleman," and other authors. "A pound of pluck is worth a
ton of luck."--President Garfield. Spirited narratives, and for the most part true ones, of
boys who have conquered obstacles and become successful business men; or of other plucky young
fellows who have shown fearlessness and "fight" in situations of danger, and also self-sacrifice
in order to save the lives of others. $1.50.

Robinson Crusoe.

By DANIEL DEFOE. An edition de luxe, printed on exquisite paper, with 16 illustrations by Thomas
Stothard, R.A., with an introduction by Austin Dobson. Fac-simile of the frontispiece and title-page
of the original edition, original prefaces. 555pp. Extra cloth binding, $1.25. Half calf, $2.50.
Morocco, full gilt, $3.00.

Side by Side.

By PANSY, author of "The Man of the House," "Mrs. Solomon Smith Looking On," "The Hall in the
Grove," "Mary Burton Abroad," etc. Illustrated stories from Bible texts for the help of boys
and girls in their school and home duties. 16mo, cloth, illustrated, $.60.

Soldier and Servant.

By ELLA M. BAKER. "Soldier and Servant" is a motto bequeathed to the heroine by the mother
who died when she was a babe, and which she early adopts, carrying its sentiment into all of
the acts of her after life, the story of which will most assuredly furnish wholesome stimulus
to every girl who reads it. There are touches of humor, and graphic descriptions worthy of
comparison with passages in Tom Brown's Schooldays at Rugby. 16mo, $1.25.

Story of Puff.

By MRS. C.M. LIVINGSTON. It was truly said of the first edition of this little volume, that
no more captivating story of bird-life was ever written, and that passages in it were worthy
of comparison with those found in "Rab and his Friends." It is the autobiography of a canary
bird, and every lover of the bird kind will read it with enthusiastic pleasure. New edition.
16mo, cloth, fully illustrated, $.60.

Sweet Girl Goldie, A WONDER STORY of BUTTERFLY TIME.

A holiday novelty, cut shape of butterfly, with twelve color designs by Miss L.B. Humphrey.
This really original and charming novelty imitates in outside appearance a large, handsome
tropic butterfly; but, on parting the wings, we find between, on a dozen leaves shaped like
the wings, the gracefully told story--a prose poem in fact--of "Girl Goldie" and her strange
adventures with the butterflies. Miss L.B. Humphrey, the popular illustrator and winner of
the Prang's Christmas Card Prizes, has designed the wing covers and the twelve exquisite illustrations
in colors. $1.25.

Tales of the Pathfinders.

By ARTHUR GILMAN. Illustrated by Robert Lewis. Romantic chapters from history detailing the
experiences of some of those who left the Old World to find and possess the New. An important
volume. $1.00.

The Triple E.

By MRS. S.R. GRAHAM CLARK. A charming story with strange incident and involved plot attracting
lovers of romance, and with firm ideals of character wrought out in the struggles and self-denials
of daily life. $1.50.

Travelling Law School (The), AND FAMOUS TRIALS.

By BENJAMIN VAUGHAN ABBOTT, LL. D. A series of easy talks to a party of young folks concerning
law, also delineating the differing functions of national, state, city, and town governments,
and illustrating legal principles by accounts of a dozen famous trials. $1.00.

William the Silent, AND THE NETHERLAND WAR.

By MARY BARRETT. Withmaps and engravings. 12mo, illustrated, $1.50.

Young Folks' History of the Netherlands.

By ALEX. YOUNG. A concise history of Holland and Belgium, 1 vol., 16mo, cloth, $1.50. Half
Russia, $2.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

STANDARD AND MISCELLANEOUS.

Æsop's Fables.

By REV. T. JAMES, M.A. Illustrated by J. Tenniel. 12mo, $1.00. Boards, $.50.

Afterthoughts of Foreign Travel, IN HISTORIC LANDS AND CAPITAL CITIES. BY SULLIVAN HOLMAN MCCOLLESTER.

A book of rare excellence. One of the few in the great flood of books of travel that are worth
reading. Fourth edition. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

Anna Maria's Housekeeping.

By MRS. S.D. POWER. During the appearance the past two years of these papers in WIDE AWAKE,
the editors were besieged by letters from housekeepers, both old and young, asking for their
publication in permanent form. On the one hand they have been declared by trained housewives
to be the most helpful and complete domestic literature, and on the other hand, men and women
of letters have warmly praised their literary excellence. The publishers, therefore, confidently
offer the volume to the public as a standard work upon practical domestic economy. Housekeeper's
Library, 16mo, extra cloth,$1.00.

An Hour with Miss Streator.

By PANSY. An intensely interesting little monograph which will be a genuine inspiration to
all faithful teachers, while to the thoughtless disparagers of such toilers it will bear most
useful lessons. Paper, 6 cents.

American Explorations in the Ice Zones.

Early American Voyages made in search of the Northwest Passage. Explorations in the Arctic
Zone by Lieut. DeHaven, Dr. Kane, Commodore Rodgers, Capt. Hall, Lieut. Schwatka and Lieut.
DeLong; Wrangel Land as first reported by Capt. Long, and a brief account of the U.S. Expedition
to the Antarctic seas under Capt. Wilkes. Compiled from official and other sources by PROF.
J.E. NOURSE, U.S.N. We have in this volume the work of a scientist and scholar, and at the
same time a book of thrilling interest. It contains all that the public desire to know concerning
the subject of which it treats, and must be, for years to come, regarded as the standard work
upon Arctic affairs. 8mo, extra cloth, illustrated,$3.00. With circumpolar map,$3.50. Half
calf, $6.00.

Bremen Lectures.

On Fundamental, Living, Religious Questions by various eminent European Divines. Translated
by REV. D. HEAGLE, with an Introduction by REV. ALVAH HOVET, D.D., President of Newton Theological
Institution. Of this volume, as touching some of the great religious questions of the day,
the translator well says it would be difficult to find another work wherein is included in
so brief compass so much of that which with the present helps from science and thought, should
be said on these several themes. Third edition. 12mo, $1.50.

China.

By ROBT. K. DOUGLAS, of the British Museum, and Professor of Chinese at King's College, London,
with revisions by Yan Phou Lee. The latest addition to Lothrop's Library of Entertaining History,
and a work which is not only graphic and interesting in style and matter, but which bears the
marks of authenticity and scholarship on every page. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

Classic Tales.

By MARIA EDGEWORTH. 12mo, cloth,$1.25.

Christie's Christmas.

By PANSY. Christie is one of those delightfully lifelike, naive and interesting characters
which no one so well as Pansy can portray, and in the study of which every reader will find
delight and profit. 12mo, fully illustrated,$1.50.

Cookery for Beginners.

By MARION HARLAND, author of "Common Sense in the Household," etc. Plain, practical lessons
for girls and young housekeepers of small means. Its directions are to be relied upon, and
its results are invariably delicate, wholesome, and delicious. 16mo, $1.00.

Double Story (A).

By GEORGE MACDONALD. This standard fairy story still retains its popularity in the world of
readers, and edition follows edition. It is a favorite gift book from mother to daughter, and
well deserves a place on every family book shelf. New edition, with full-page illustrations
by Miss L.B. Humphrey. $1.00.

Endless Chain (An).

BY PANSY. Every one who takes up this new story will have an irresistible inclination to read
the next page, and the next, and so on until the finis. It is a peculiarity of "Pansy's" books
that they have the freshness as well as the healthfulness of the sea winds in June, and are
as natural and acceptable and wholesome. This is the explanation of their marvellous popularity;
and the explanation itself is explained by the fact that Mrs. Alden derives the inspiration
for all of her work from a cheerful, living, trustful faith in the Master to whose service
she consecrates her best efforts. Illustrated, 12mo, $1.50.

Far From Home.

From the German of Johannes Van Derval, translated by Kathrine Hamilton. The latest and one
of the most pleasing volumes of the famous V.I.F. Series. Translated by the niece of Professor
Spencer F. Baird, Director Smithsonian Institute, Washington, D.C. 12mo, cloth, $1.25.

Health and Strength Papers for Girls.

By Mary J. Safford, M.D., of the Boston University, and Mary E. Allen, of the Boston Ladies'
Gymnasium. The two professors of Physical Science have together prepared a valuable book of
counsel for mothers, teachers, and all who have the guardianship of young girls. Its advice
is plain, its suggestions provoke reflection and action, and its influence in the family will
be lasting. $.60.

Helpful Thoughts FOR YOUNG MEN.

By T.D. Woolsey, D.D. LL. D. 16mo, cloth, $.60.

How to Learn and Earn. HALF HOURS IN SOME HELPFUL SCHOOLS.

Graphic accounts of schools where the unfortunate are taught useful trades, or where interesting
specialties in industry are to be learned. 12mo, cloth. 100 illustrations. $1.50.

Interrupted.

By Pansy. All that has been said of the previous books of that favorite author, is true of
this. It is a book whose high purpose is to impress wholesome truths, and is admirably kept
in view without any sacrifice of that which makes a story attractive to the young. $1.50.

Margie's Mission.

By Marie Oliver, author of "Ruby Hamilton," "Seba's Discipline," etc. This is a book which
will fascinate and at the same time instruct and benefit every boy or girl who reads it. Its
characters are delightfully sketched and have a refreshing air of genuineness. 400 pages, fully
illustrated, cloth, $1.50, paper, $.25.

Paul and Virginia.

By Bernardin De ST. Pierre, with a memoir and illustrations by La Lanze. A beautiful edition
from new plates, exquisitely printed on choice paper.

Through a Microscope.

By Samuel Wells and Mary Treat. With illustrations. A little book by two practical microscopists,
which should accompany every microscope put into the hands of girl or boy. 16mo, $.60.

Truro--Cape Cod; OR, LANDMARKS AND SEAMARKS.

By Shebnah Rich. This valuable contribution to colonial history is the result of long and careful
preparation, thorough research and excellent judgment. 8vo, cloth, gilt, 77 illustrations, $3.00.

Vicar of Wakefield.

By Oliver Goldsmith. With illustrations by Wm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Standard Editions of Standard Works.

Dickens' Complete Works.

15 vols., popular edition, $18.75, 15 vols., standard edition, $22.50. 15 vols., half calf, $37.50.

Dictionary of the Bible.

By William Smith, LL. D. 8vo, illustrated, $2.00. Large edition with history of Jewish nation,
$4.00.

George Eliot's Complete Works.

8 vols., popular edition, $10.00. 8 vols., sunshine edition, $12.00. 8 vols., half calf, $20.00.
RAWLINSON, M.A., Camden Professor of Ancient History in the University of Oxford. 3 vols. Maps
and illustrations. Extra cloth binding, bevelled boards, $4.50. Half calf, $9.00.

Rollins' Ancient History.

4 vols., 12mo, cloth, $6.00; 4 vols., 12mo, half calf, $10.00.

Self Help Series.

By Samuel Smiles, Character, Thrift, Duty, Self Help. 4 vols, 12mo, $6.00.

Thackeray's Complete Novels.

11 vols., popular edition, $13.75. 11 vols., sunshine edition, $16.50. 11 vols., half calf, $27.50.

Washington Irving's Works.

6 vols., standard edition, $9.00. 6 vols., half calf, $18.00.

Waverley Novels (Sir Walter Scott).

12 vols., popular edition, $15.00. 12 vols., standard edition, $18.00. 12 vols., half calf, $30.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POPULAR "PANSY" BOOKS.

No writer has achieved a more enviable reputation than "Pansy." Her style is unique, and the
strong, healthy, natural spirit, breathed through all her writings, ennobles the mind--making
the manly more strong, and the womanly more true.

AN ENDLESS CHAIN. One of the most attractive books on the lists for Sabbath school and family
reading. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

A NEW GRAFT ON THE FAMILY TREE. This story moves you alternately to laughter and tears, while
it is so brimful of the sweetness of evangelical religion that its influence cannot fail to
be beneficent. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

BERNIE'S WHITE CHICKEN. To which is added "The Diamond Bracelet." A prize missionary story.
10mo .75

CHAUTAUQUA GIRLS AT HOME (The). 12mo, illustrated 1.50

CHRISTIE'S CHRISTMAS. The story of a charming girl's journey to spend Christmas 1.50

CUNNING WORKMEN. A story of rare interest and value to all interested in Sabbath school work.
12mo, illustrated 1.25

DIVERS WOMEN. By Pansy and Mrs. Livingston. 12mo 1.50

DOCIA'S JOURNAL; or, God is Love. Admirably calculated to enforce a great truth. 16mo .75

DR. DEANE'S WAY, and other stories. By Faye Huntington and Pansy. The authors' names are sufficient
guarantee for its value and interest. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

ECHOING AND RE-ECHOING. By Faye Huntington. The great truths spoken by the minister, Echoed
and Re-echoed by the people 1.50

ESTER RIED. We stand face to face with real everyday characters and situations, and are shown
the actual struggles through which victorious souls must go. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

ESTER RIED "YET SPEAKING." Fully equal to "Ester Ried." 12mo, illustrated 1.50

FIVE FRIENDS. A story which is in its way a delightful character study. 12mo, illustrated 1.00

FOUR GIRLS AT CHAUTAUQUA. Girl life and character portrayed with rare power. 12 mo, illustrated
1.50

FROM DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS. By Pansy and Faye Huntington. An impressive and fascinating story.
12mo, illustrated 1.50

GETTING AHEAD. Choice stories in large clear type for children. Very fully illustrated. 12mo .75

GRANDPA'S DARLINGS. Many a "darling" will be delighted with this charming story. It has lessons
for both old and young. 12mo, illustrated 1.25

HALL IN THE GROVE (The). A worthy companion volume for "Chautauqua Girls at Home." 12mo, cloth 1.50

HELEN LESTER. To which is added "Nannie's Experiment." A premium was awarded for its style
and adaptation to our young people. 16mo, illustrated .75

HOUSEHOLD PUZZLES. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

HALF HOUR LIBRARY for young readers. Illustrated. Large octavo. 8 vols 3.20

INTERRUPTED. Pansy's latest story. It has all the charm of this most popular author's fascinating
style 1.50

JESSIE WELLS; or How to save the Lost. Equally interesting and practical. 16mo .75

JULIA RIED. There is a wondrous freshness and vitality appearing on every page. The insight
into character and the power to make it unfold itself are very noticeable. 12mo illustrated 1.50

KING'S DAUGHTER (The). As a book for girls who are just coming forward to take the high trusts
of life, few equal this in merit. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

LINKS IN REBECCA'S LIFE. The heroine, Rebecca, is intensely human, and her hard fought battles
inspire enthusiasm in the reader. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

MARY BURTON ABROAD. A book which is as instructive as it is entertaining. 16mo .75

MRS. SOLOMON SMITH LOOKING ON. 12mo, cloth 1.50

MAN OF THE HOUSE (The). 12mo, cloth 1.50

MISS PRISCILLA HUNTER AND MY DAUGHTER SUSAN. The two stories in one attractive volume. 12mo,
cloth, illustrated 1.25

MODERN PROPHETS. By Pansy and Faye Huntington The cause of temperance is sustained with rare
power, tact and interest 1.50

MOTHER'S BOYS AND GIRLS' LIBRARY. So popular as to need no commendation. 12 vols., quarto,
boards 3.00

MRS. DEANE'S WAY. By Faye Huntington. The value and happiness of trusting in God happily exemplified.
12mo. illustrated 1.25

MRS. HARRY HARPER'S AWAKENING. A missionary story which enforces its own lessons 1.00

NEXT THINGS. "An unusually interesting book." 12mo, fully illustrated 1.00

NEW YEAR'S TANGLES. A bright story for the holidays. 12mo, 256 pages 1.00

PANSY'S SCRAP BOOK. (Former title, The Teacher's Helper.) 12mo, cloth, illustrated 1.00

PANSY'S PICTURE BOOK. A new, large and very beautiful picture book. Large clear type and nearly
one hundred illustrations. 4to, boards, 1.50; cloth 2.00

PANSIES. A new book of stories, with numerous illustrations. 12mo, illustrated .75

PANSY'S PRIMARY LIBRARY. Nothing for young readers surpasses this collection. 30 vols 7.50

POCKET MEASURE (The). This new story will find thousands of delighted readers, 12mo, 575 pp.
illustrated 1.50

RANDOLPHS (The). The characters so interesting in "Household Puzzles" again appear in this
most welcome volume. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

RUTH ERSKINE'S CROSSES. A sequel to the story of the "Chautauqua Girls." Too much cannot be
said in praise of the insight it gives into the true way of studying and using the Word of
God. 12mo, cloth, illustrated 1.50

SIDNEY MARTIN'S CHRISTMAS. A charming story book. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

SIX LITTLE GIRLS. A story in large print. 12mo, cloth, illustrated .75

SOME YOUNG HEROINES. 12mo, cloth, illustrated 1.00

SIDE BY SIDE. Books full of helpful inspiration. 12mo, cloth, illustrated .60

THAT BOY BOB. For young readers. By Faye Huntington and Pansy. By Faye Huntington. A noble
book for the older boys. 12mo 1.50

THREE PEOPLE. An intensely interesting and effective temperance story. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

TIP LEWIS AND HIS LAMP. A story of school life for boys. 12mo, illustrated 1.50

TWO BOYS. A short story fully illustrated. 12mo, cloth, illustrated .75

WISE AND OTHERWISE. Some of the finest character-painting is to be found in this book. 12mo,
illustrated 1.50

WHAT SHE SAID. The two stories "What she said and What she Meant," and "People who haven't
time and can't afford it," are here put in one volume. 12mo, cloth, illustrated 1.25

D. LOTHROP & CO., Publishers, Franklin and Hawley Sts., Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CELEBRATED $1000 AND $500 PRIZE BOOKS.

Andy Luttrell. Price, $1.50.

Andy Luttrell is remarkable for its exceeding interest, and impressive illustrations of evangelical
truth and Christian experience.--The Morning Star.

Shining Hours. $1.50.

"Shining Hours" is by a young clergyman, whose name is withheld from the public, but it is
a book of great beauty, and promises greater things in the future.--Boston Traveller.

Master and Pupil. Price, $1.50.

It sets forth, through the medium of an admirably told story, the true spirit and the high
work of education in our public schools.--Rev. Dr. Day.

May Bell. Price, $1.50.

In this interesting temperance story, filial love and devotion are strongly exhibited. "Even
Christ pleased not himself," is the key-note.

Sabrina Hackett. Price, $1.50.

It is one of those rare offsprings of genius which occasionally delight the lovers of a simple
and pure literature.--Albany Journal.

Aunt Matty. Price, $1.50.

It sets forth the beauty, the power, and the beneficence of a true evangelical faith, approved
by the intellect, and welcomed by the heart.

Light from the Cross. Price, $1.50.

Contradictions. Price, $1.50.

They certainly are very attractive stories, and having won golden rewards for those who wrote
them, we trust they will gain for them the far more glorious result of "winning many souls
to righteousness."--The Presbyterian.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Committee of Examiners, Rev. Drs. HEMAN LINCOLN, J.E. RANKIN, and G.T. DAY, commend the

New $500 Prize Series,

Now complete in 13 volumes, as more valuable and attractive than any books of their class heretofore
examined.

Short-Comings and Long-Goings. Price, $1.25

Full of sparkle and glow, and throbbing in every paragraph with intense life. It teaches the
highest lessons of duty and religion with equal quietude and effect.--Rev. Dr. Day.

Lute Falconer. Price, $1.50.

A story of rare interest, touching deeper chords of life. It will be read with enthusiasm,
and laid down with an appreciation of its high office.

Hester's Happy Summer. Price, $1.25.

It is rare to find a story of such sweetness and beauty. The pathos Is tender and all pervading,
and steals into the heart with a refining power.--Heman Lincoln, D.D.

One Year of My Life. Price, $1.25.

The author is a finished writer, with a large knowledge of books and of life, a keen insight
into character, and a style of rare purity and grace.

Building-Stones. Price, $1.25.

A successful attempt to teach Bible truths in a manner both interesting and instructive.

Susy's Spectacles. Price, $1.25.

It was a friend that taught this wayward little girl to use these spectacles, and they proved
a perfect blessing to her, and, step by step, led her up to a Christian life.--The Advance.

The Flower by the Prison. Price, $1.25.

The style is cultivated and rich, well adapted to bring out the deeper life of the soul.

Trifles. Price, $1.25.

"Trifles" may strike the key-note in some young life, and save the reader from a ruinous failure.--Examiner
and Chronicle.

The Judge's Sons. Price, $1.50.

An admirable book to put into the hands of boys exposed to temptations and in danger of going
astray.--Rev. Dr. Lincoln.

Daisy Seymour. Price, $1.25.

"Daisy Seymour" shows, interestingly and impressively, the value of religion in the development
and elevation of youthful character.

Olive Loring's Mission. Price, $1.25.

The rest gained faith, and the beauty and power of true piety, beautifully and impressively
set forth.

The Torch-Bearers. Price, $1.25.

Full of examples of love and self-denial, it teaches not only what one Christian woman may
do, but how powerful is the influence of children for good if they are rightly taught.

The Trapper's Niece. Price, $1.25.

A story of Western life, illustrating the gradual separation of the good and bad elements as
civilization advances, and the power of religion to unite and improve a community.--Rev. Dr.
Rankin.

       *       *       *       *       *

The $1000 Prize Series.

Pronounced by the Examining Committee, Rev. Drs. Lincoln, Rankin and Day, superior to any similar
series.

Striking for the Right. Price, $1.75.

Here are beautiful sentiments whose price is above gold. The book is bright and witty and wise.
Our boys and girls will read it and inwardly digest, and talk it over to their genuine profit,
as we can testify by family experience.--Springfield Republican.

Walter Macdonald. Price, $1.50.

Walter Macdonald is deservedly popular. Not a few strange and striking events are wrought into
the intensely interesting narrative, and the motive underlying all is high and Christian.

The Wadsworth Boys. Price, $1.50.

It is not sensational, but thoughtful, pleasant, and wholesome; truly exalting whatever is
noble, and putting under ban whatever is mean, though seemingly respectable.--Episcopal Register.

Silent Tom. Price, $1.75.

The story is startling, and told with great power. It is a picture of the life of our time,
and will hold readers with a magnetism they cannot resist.

The Blount Family. Price, $1.50.

In style it is unusually discriminating and careful, and it abounds with scenes of domestic
life, which are so striking, yet so true to human nature that they seem to bring the reader
into close companionship with the characters of the narrative.--Youth's Companion.

The Marble Preacher. Price, $1.50.

Representing the elements of a true Christian character, and the method of their development.
The literary art and moral tone are excellent.

Evening Rest. Price, $1.50.

It is a work of rare originality and beauty; the pictures of real life have a curious charm.

Margaret Worthington. Price $1.50

The story is told in a quiet, self-contained, yet very interesting way; the characters are
clearly conceived, and develop themselves naturally and effectually, and religion appears at
once humanely practical and divinely attractive.

Coming to the Light. Price, $1.50.

This is a story of school-life, fresh, healthy, and sparkling; the danger of yielding to temptations
and the need of decision of character are lessons taught in an effective way.

Ralph's Possession. Price, $1.50.

With very charming pictures of home-life, it is chiefly a revelation of the deeper heart-life.--Watchman
and Reflector.

Sunset Mountain. Price, $1.50.

Excellent in its direct teaching and indirect suggestions.

The Old Stone House. Price, $1.50.

It is just such a book as wide-awake and intelligent young people will never tire of, or nod
over, and while they are entertained they will be lifted.--Boston Daily Journal.

Golden Lines. Price, $1.50.

To any one who loves the Lord Jesus, and wishes to be more like him, this will prove a book
of rare interest.

Luck of Alden Farm. Price, $1.50.

One of the most successful books for the young, by one of the best religious writers of the
day.--Zion's Herald.

Glimpses Through. Price, $1.50.

A beautiful story, presenting noble views of sickness, death, and the future world.

Grace Avery's Influence. Price, $1.50.

It is a book that will strongly call to a life that has both nobility and beauty in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

YOUNG FOLKS' SERIES. 12mos for young folks, at $1.50 each. 33 vols. A carefully selected list
of books. Each volume illustrated and bound in English cloth, with attractive black and gold
stamps. The best books to meet the demand for popular 12mos yet offered.

Island Home. Myths and Heroes. Zina or Morning Mists. Captive in Patagonia. Silver Sands. Battles
Lost and Won. Agnes and Her Neighbors. African Adventurers. Noble Workers. Southern Explorers.
Pioneers of the New World. Plymouth and the Pilgrims. Stella and the Priest. Paul and Virginia.
Vicar of Wakefield. Fabrics. Knights and Sea Kings. Noble Printer. Will Phillips. Sister Eleanor's
Brood. Peter's Strange Story. Bloomfield. Old Schoolfellows. Stories of Success. Men of Mark
Soldiers and Patriots. Sure; or, It Pays. Violet Douglass. Classic Tales. Robinson Crusoe.
More Ways than One. Their Children. First Explorers of North America.

YOUNG FOLKS' BIOGRAPHIES. Each volume 12mo, full illustrate 4 vols. $6.00.

Life of Washington. By E.E. Brown. William the Silent. By Mary Barrett. Life of Paul. By D.H.
Taylor. Queen Victoria. By Grace Greenwood.

*YOUNG HEROINE LIBRARY. By PANSY. 5 vols. 12mo, cloth, illustrated. $5.00

Some young Heroines. Five Friends. Pansy's Scrap Book. Next Things. Mrs. Harry Harper's Awakening.

YOUNG VOYAGER'S LIBRARY, THE. 12 vols. These libraries as a whole,
considering their character and cost, have no superior.
 "         "           "
 "         "           "

       *       *       *       *       *

MARGARET SIDNEY'S BOOKS.

FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS AND HOW THEY GREW. $1.50.

"A charming work.... The home scenes in which these little Peppers are engaged are capitally
described.... Will find prominent place among the higher class of juvenile presentation books."--Religious
Herald.

"One of the best told tales given to the children for some time.... The perfect reproduction
of child-life in its minutest phases catches one's attention at once."--Christian Advocate.

"A good book to place in the hands of every boy and girl."--Chicago Inter-Ocean.

SO AS BY FIRE. $1.25.

"Will be hailed with eager delight, and found well worth reading.--Christian Observer.

"An admirable Sunday-school book."--Arkansas Evangel.

We have followed with intense interest the story of David Folsom.... A man poor, friendless,
and addicted to drink;.... the influence of little Cricket: ... the faithful care of aunt Phebe;
all steps by which he climbed to higher manhood.--Woman at Work.

THE PETTIBONE NAME. $1.25.

"It ought to attract wide attention from the simplicity of its style, and the vigor and originality
of its treatment.--Chicago Herald.

"This is a capital story illustrating New England life."--Inter-Ocean, Chicago.

"The characters of the story seem all to be studies from life.--Boston Post.

"To be commended to readers for excellent delineations, sparkling style, bright incidents and
genuine interest."--The Watchman.

"The book is in every way well done."--Illustrated Christian Weekly.

HALF YEAR AT BRONCKTON. $1.25.

A live boy writes: "this is about the best book that ever was written or ever can be."

"This bright and earnest story ought to go into the hands of every boy who is old enough to
be subjected to the temptations of school life."

WHAT THE SEVEN DID.

THE GOLDEN WEST.

Quarto, board cover, $1.75. Extra cloth binding, $2.25.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPULAR BIOGRAPHIES.

Each volume 12mo, illustrated. Price, $1.50.

CHARLES XII. King of Sweden. By M. DEVOLTAIRE.
DICKENS, CHARLES. By PHEBE A. HANAFORD.
FRANKLIN, BENJAMIN: His Struggles and Triumphs. By REV. JEREMIAH CHAPLIN.
GREELEY, HORACE: His Life and Editorial Success.
  By WILLIAM L. CORNELL, D.D.
GARFIELD, JAMES A. By E.E. BROWN. Steel portrait and illustrations.
HEROES OF AFRICAN DISCOVERY. By REV. GEORGE T. DAY.
LONGFELLOW, HENRY W. By W. SLOANE KENNEDY.
LAWRENCE, AMOS: Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence.
  By his son, WILLIAM R. LAWRENCE, M.D.
LINCOLN, ABRAHAM: His Life and Public Services. By PHEBE A. HANAFORD.
LIVINGSTONE, DAVID (Life and Explorations of). By JOHN S. ROBERTS.
NELSON, LORD. By ROBERT SOUTHEY.
PUTNAM, ISRAEL: Major-general in the Continental Army. By I.N. TARBOX.
  With maps.
PEABODY, GEORGE: His Life and Princely Benevolence. By PHEBE A. HANAFORD.
SUMNER, CHARLES. By J. and J.D. CHAPLIN.
  With introduction by HON. WILLIAM CLAFLIN.
TAYLOR, BAYARD: His Life, Travels and Literary Career.
  By COL. RUSSELL H. CONWELL.
WHITTIER, JOHN G. By W. SLOANE KENNEDY.
WEBSTER, DANIEL: His Life and Character. By Joseph BANVARD, D.D.
WILSON, HENRY: His Life and public Services. By REV. ELIAS NASON.

ÆSOP'S FABLES, VERSIFIED. The illustrations for this volume have never been surpassed in novelty,
grace and vigor. Cloth, $3.00.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOICE BOOKS IN SETS.

ANY VOLUME SOLD SEPARATELY.

ONCE UPON A TIME STORIES. 3 vols. $4.50.

Pansy's Picture Book. Mother's Boys and Girls. Once Upon a Time Play Stories.

OUR CLUB LIBRARY. 4 vols. $5.00.

Their Club and Ours. A Double Masquerade. Old Caravan Days. From the Hudson to the Neva.

POPULAR BIOGRAPHIES. 18 vols. Just added. Life of Nelson. Life of Charles XII. 12mo, illustrated.
$1.50 each.

READING UNION LIBRARY. 7 vols. $7.00.

A Boy's Workshop. By a Boy and his Friends. Edited by Henry Randall Waite. Old Ocean. By Ernest
Ingersoll. Door Yard Folks. Amanda B. Harris. Magna Charta Stories. Arthur Gilman and others.
Great Composers. Hezekiah Butterworth. The Travelling Law School. Benjamin Vaughan Abbott Pleasant
Authors. $7.50

Yensie Walton. Yensie Walton's Womanhood. Our Street. The Triple E. Achor.

FIRELIGHT STORIES. 6 vols. cloth. $3.00. The largest and most fully illustrated books in cloth
binding ever issued for the price.

The Sawing Match. By Ada Carleton. Picnic Days. By George B. Bartlett. Uncle Archie's Cane.
By M.E.W.S. How Dot heard the "Messiah." By Hezekiah Butterworth. The Mirage Man. By Theodora
R. Jenness. Rob's Father. By Eleanor Putnam.

LOTHROP'S LIBRARY OF ENTERTAINING History. Edited by Arthur Gilman, M.A. Each vol. to have
100 illustrations. These histories are designed to furnish in a succinct but interesting form,
such descriptions of the lands treated as shall meet the wants of those busy readers who cannot
devote themselves to the study of detailed and elaborate works, but who wish to be well informed
in historical matters. 6 vols, 12mo, $9.00.

History of the American People. By The Editor. India. By Fannie Roper Feudge. Egypt. By Mrs.
Clara Erskine Clement. China. By Robert K. Douglas. Spain. By Prof. James Herbert Harrison.
Switzerland. By Miss Harriet D.S. McKenzie. Other volumes in preparation.

MARIE OLIVER STORIES. 4 vols., 12mo, cloth, illustrated, $6.00.

Margie's Mission. Ruby Hamilton. Old and New Friends. Seba's Discipline.

TO-DAY SERIES. 6 vols., cloth. $7.50.

To-days and Yesterdays. By Carrie Adelaide Cooke. The Lord's Pursebearers. By Hesba Stratton.
From June to June. By Carrie Adelaide Cooke. A Fortunate Failure. By Caroline B. LeRow. Milly's
Little Wanderer. By Mrs. Susie A. Bisbee. Soldier and Servant. By Ella M. Baker.

CHRISTMAS HEARTH LIBRARY. 5 vols. $2.50 Each volume illustrated from original designs.

Who ate the Pink Sweetmeat? By Susan Coolidge, and other Christmas Stories. The Cow with Golden
Horns. By Mary E. Wilkins, and other stories. Little Luckie. By Rose Hawthorne Lathrop, and
other stories. The Washington's English Home. By Rose Kingsley, and other stories of Biography.
The Bear Family. By Ernest Ingersoll, and stories in Natural History.

YOUNG FOLKS' HISTORIES. By Charlotte M. Yonge. 6 vols., cloth, $9.00. Imitation half calf,
$9.50; half Russia, $12.00.

Rome. Germany. France. Greece. England. Bible.

YOUNG FOLKS' LIBRARY. Issued monthly in strong manilla paper bindings at twenty-five cents
per volume. $3.00 per year. Each volume represents some favorite American author. These volumes
contain from 300 to 500 16mo pages, clear type, carefully printed.

GEORGE MACDONALD'S LATER BOOKS. 4 vols., 16mo, $6.00.

Donald Grant. Weighed and Wanting. Imagination. Warlock o' Glenwarlock.

HILL REST SERIES. 3 vols., 16mo, $3.75

Hill Rest. Keenie's To-morrow. Onward.

HOUSEKEEPER'S LIBRARY. Extra cloth bindings, uniform, black and red stamps. 4 vols. $4.00.

Anna Maria's Housekeeping. By Mrs. S.D. Power. Cookery for Beginners. By Marion Harland. Twenty-six
Hours a Day. By Mary Blake. Domestic problems: Work and Culture in the Household. By Mrs. A.M.
Diaz.

HONOR BRIGHT SERIES. By Magnus Merriweather. 3 vols, 16mo. $3.75.

Honor Bright. Royal Lowrie. Royal Lowrie's last year at St. Olaves.

PEACE ISLAND SERIES. 6 vols., 12mo, cloth. $4.50. Six to ten full-page illustrations in each
volume.

Jo Lambert's Ferry. By George Cary Eggleston. With other stories of the frontier and early
settlers. Dolly's Kettledrum. By Nora Perry. With other stories for girls. Nellie's Heroes.
By Harriet Beecher Stowe. With other Heroic stories. Lost in Pompeii. By H.H. Clark, U.S.N.
With other stories of Adventure. Peace Island. By Eliot McCormick. With other stories for boys.
Katy's Birthday. By Sara O. Jewett. With other stories by famous authors.

MIDWINTER TALES. 8 vols., 16mo, cloth, ill. $3.20.

Christmas Charity. Black and Grey Prince. Child Life in Labrador. A Confederate Christmas.
Artist and Bear. How the Boys woke Him. Mrs. McAllister's Company. Right to the Point. From
Rev. Theodore L. Cuyler, D.D. With a sketch of his life. By Mary Storrs Haynes. With an introduction
by Rev. Newman Hall, LL.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETS' HOMES.

Pen and Pencil Pictures of American Poets and their Homes. By R.H. STODDARD, ARTHUR GILMAN
and others. New, complete edition, 8vo, extra cloth, gilt edges, $4.00; imitation crushed levant,
gilt edges, $5.00; full Turkey morocco, $8.00.

This is a collection of charming "pen and pencil sketches of American poets and their homes."
The names of Holmes, Whitman, Miller, Phelps, Bryant, Perry, Emerson, Hayne, O'Reilly and Smith
are loved by many who will be delighted to find them thus associated and honored. A poet's
home is a place of interest, for of it, as much as of the soul, is the poem born. The home-life,
the simple elegance and open hospitality are part of the beauty of the flowing numbers. In
this work the exact illustrations add much to the vividness of the description. The volume
is worthy a place in any collection.--Central Baptist.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROCKY FORK

By Mary Hartwell Catherwood.

Cloth, $1.50.

A notably fresh and charming story of boy and girl school-life at the West in the early days.

Thirty-six pictures by George F. Barnes.

Rocky Fork is the name of the place where Bluebell, the heroine of our story, lived. It was
a country place, and she went to a country school, and had all that belongs to a country life.
She was a good, brave and lovable girl. No one can imagine what an interesting and adventurous
time she had, unless they read Rocky Fork. We wish that all our little friends could get a
chance to read it, for it is a charming story.--Presbyterian, New Orleans.

"A treasury of good morals."--N.Y. Tribune.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOTHROP'S

POPULAR ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINES. An account of the Greeley Party, and the recent rescue of the
survivors.

       *       *       *       *       *

RAINY-DAY PLAYS.

The merry doings of a family of children, related by Mrs. Frances A. Humphrey, and pictured
by "Boz." Printed in colors. Price, 50 cts.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOLL ROSY'S DAYS.

The daily make-believe life of a little girl and her doll, told in twelve verselets by Mrs.
Clara Doty Bates, and twelve pictures by Hassam. Printed in colors. Price 50 cts.

       *       *       *       *       *

JANUARY PUBLICATIONS

OF

D. LOTHROP & COMPANY.

INTERRUPTED. Pansy's new story, will be ready in a few days. Extra cloth. 12mo, $1.50.

THE GRAY MASQUE AND OTHER POEMS. By Mary Barker Dodge. $1.25. The reputation of this author
has been already made. Her name will be recognized in connection with some of the choicest
bits of poetry contributed to periodical literature in recent years, such as "Indian Summer,"
"My Baby," "The Frozen Crew," etc., all of which, and many new poems of equal excellence, are
offered to the public in this unusually attractive volume.

THE ARNOLD BIRTHDAY BOOK. Edited by his daughters. $1.25.

LIFE OF REV. WARREN H. CUDWORTH. By His Sister. 380 pp. $1.50. A simple and remarkably interesting
biography of one of the most useful and saintly of Christian men. It will be welcomed and read
with satisfaction by all who knew this earnest, noble minister of the gospel, and to those
who never saw him, it will be full of suggestive thoughts.

THE EVOLUTION OF DODD. By William Hanley Smith.

IN CASE OF ACCIDENT. By Dr. D.A. Sargent. Illustrated.

RED LETTER STORIES.

HOW SUCCESS IS WON. (Little Biographies. Third Series.) By Mrs. Sarah K. Bolton. Price $1.00.

LIFT UP YOUR HEARTS. 25 cents. Helpful thoughts for overcoming the world, compiled and arranged
by Rose Porter.

D. LOTHROP & CO., Publishers, Franklin and Hawley Sts., Boston.

