The Haymarket derives its name from a market for hay and straw which was held here until 1830,
and was then transferred to Cumberland Market, Regent's Park, where it still continues. The
market naturally involved many taverns in its neighbourhood, and the street was lined with
them. The names of some were Black Horse, White Horse, Nag's Head, Cock, Phoenix, Unicorn,
and Blue Posts. The theatre and the old opera-house were the most important buildings in the
Haymarket. The latter was on the site of Her Majesty's Theatre and the Carlton Hotel. It was
called at different times the Queen's Theatre, the King's Theatre, and Her Majesty's Theatre,
so the new name is but a revival of the old. The first theatre on this site was begun in 1703
as a theatre for Betterton's famous company, which had been performing in Lincoln's Inn Fields.
Operas were subsequently performed here; in fact, nearly all Handel's operas were written for
this theatre. Masquerades were held in the opera-house in 1749 and 1766, and were attended
by all the rank and fashion of the day, and even by royalty in disguise. In 1789 the theatre
was burnt down. It was rebuilt and completed only three years after the catastrophe. This house
saw some fine performances of the Italian Opera Company, and in it the names of Grisi, Rubini,
Tamburini, Lablache, Mario, and Jenny Lind, first became known to the public. In 1867 it also
was burnt down. For about a quarter of a century a third theatre stood here, but had no success,
and was pulled down. The present theatre is of great magnificence, and will seat between 1,600
and 1,700 persons. The Haymarket Theatre opposite is dwarfed by the proximity of its gorgeous
neighbour. The names of Fielding, Cibber, Macklin, and Foote are connected with various attempts
to make the earliest venture on this site pay. Mozart performed here in 1765, when only eight
years old. In 1820 the present building was erected by Nash, adjacent to the old theatre. The
Haymarket in the last century was a great place for shows and entertainments.

In James's Street was a tennis-court much patronized by Charles II. and the Duke of York.

Whitcomb Street was formerly called Hedge Lane, an appropriate name when it stood in a rural
district; now it is a narrow, dirty thoroughfare, bordered by poor dwellings and small shops.

PART III

THE STRAND

We have now made a circuit, noting all that is interesting by the way, and have returned to
busy Charing Cross, from which runs the great thoroughfare, the Strand, which gives the district
its name.

This important street might be considered either as a street of palaces--and in this respect
not to be surpassed by any street in medieval Europe, not even Venice--or a street full of
associations, connected chiefly with retail trade, taverns, shops, sedan-chairs, and hackney
coaches.

The Strand, as the name implies, was the shore by the river. It has passed through two distinct
phases. First, when it was an open highway, with a few scattered houses here and there, crossed
by small bridges over the rivulets which flowed down to the Thames. One of these was the Strand
Bridge, between the present Surrey Street and Somerset House; another, Ivy Bridge, between
Salisbury Street and Adam Street. In 1656 there were more than 800 watercourses crossing it
between Palace Yard and the Old Exchange! It was not paved until Henry VIII.'s reign, and we
read of the road being interrupted with thickets and bushes.

Then came a period of great grandeur, when the Strand was lined with palatial mansions, which
had gardens stretching down to the river, when the town-houses of the Prince-Bishops, of the
highest nobility, and even of royalty, rose up in grandeur. The names of the streets, Salisbury
and Buckingham, York and Durham, Norfolk and Exeter, are no mere fancy, but recall a vision
of bygone splendour which might well cause the Strand to be named a street of palaces.

The palaces, which occupied at one time the whole of the south side of the street, were at
first the town-houses of the Bishops. They were built along the river because, in their sacred
character, they were safe from violence (except in one or two cases), and therefore did not
need the protection of the wall, while it was perhaps felt that even if the worst happened,
as it did happen in Jack Straw's rebellion, the river offered a liberally safe way of escape.
In the thirteenth century Henry III. gave Peter of Savoy "all those houses in the Thames on
the way called the Strand."

Gay speaks of the change that had fallen upon the Strand in his time:

    "Through the long Strand together let us stray;
    With thee conversing I forget the way.

Disraeli, in "Tancred," says: "The Strand is, perhaps, the finest street in Europe." Charles
Lamb said: "I often shed tears in the motley Strand for fulness of joy at so much life."

The Strand has now become a street of shops instead of a street of palaces; it has been, but
is no more, a fashionable resort; it has been a place for the lodgings of visitors, and still
has many small hotels and boarding-houses in its riverside lanes; its personal associations
are many, but not so important as those in the City or Westminster; it is a street of great
interest, but its architectural glories have almost all vanished.

Beginning at the west end, we note on the north side the Golden Cross Hotel, rebuilt. This
is the successor of a famous old coaching inn, which stood further west. On the south side
is Craven Street, formerly Spur Alley, where once Benjamin Franklin lived at No. 7. The site
of Hungerford Market is now covered by the Charing Cross railway-station. In Charing Cross
station-yard is a modern reproduction of the original Queen Eleanor's Cross. The market was
built in 1680, rebuilt in 1831, and stretched to the river. The name will always be connected
with that of Charles Dickens, and with "David Copperfield." Beside the market was the suspension
bridge constructed by Brunel, opened in 1845, and removed to make room for the railway-bridge.

On the site of Hungerford Market there stood the "Inn" or House of the Bishop of Norwich. In
1536 Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk, exchanged his house in Southwark for this place; twenty
years later it fell into the hands of Heath, Archbishop of York, who called it York House,
and in the reign of James I. it became the property of the Crown. Bacon was born in this house.
In 1624 the Duke of Buckingham obtained the house; he pulled it down, and began to build a
large mansion to take its place. The watergate is the only part of his structure still existing.
Cromwell gave the house to Fairfax, whose daughter married the second Duke of Buckingham, of
the Villiers family. In 1655 Evelyn describes the house as "much ruined through neglect." In
1672 the house and gardens were sold to four persons of Westminster, who laid out the site
in streets, viz., Villiers Street, Duke Street, Buckingham Street, and Of Alley, forming in
conjunction the words Villiers, Duke of Buckingham. York House was pulled down soon after,
and York Buildings erected on the site. Peter the Great had lodgings in York Buildings during
his visit to England, and Pepys occupied a house on the west side, near the river, for some
time. The gardens of the Victoria Embankment now fill up the space over which the river formerly
flowed, and the watergate is merely a meaningless ornament 100 yards or more from the water.

At the corner of Agar and King William Streets, on the north, is the Charing Cross Hospital,
founded 1818, and built on the present site in 1831, the architect being Decimus Burton. It
is a dreary stuccoed building, with a rounded end, and contains nothing that specially marks
it out from other general hospitals.

In Chandos Street the highwayman Claude Duval was arrested, after which he was executed at
Tyburn, 1669. There was an ancient hostelry called the Black Prince in Chandos Street, which
is mentioned by Dickens. This was demolished to make way for the Medical College. Opposite
was the blacking shop where Dickens spent a miserable part of his childhood.

The next group of streets on the south side, namely, John, Robert, James, and William Streets,
was built by four brothers of the name of Adam, who gave their Christian names to their handiwork,
and from whom this particular district was called the "Adelphi," from the Greek word signifying
brothers. The site was occupied by Durham House, a palace built by Anthony de Beck, Bishop
of Durham in Edward I.'s reign. Bishop Tunstall in 1535 exchanged it with Henry VIII. for Cold
Harbour and other houses in the City, and for a time it was frequented by royalty. The King
gave a great tournament here on his marriage with Anne of Cleves. Proclamations of the jousts
were made in France, Spain, Scotland, and Flanders. The young King, Edward VI., granted the
house to his sister Elizabeth for life. The unfortunate Lady Jane Grey was married within the
walls of Durham House to the son of Northumberland. When Queen Mary ascended the throne, she
gave the palace back to Bishop Tunstall, but Elizabeth regarded it as one of the royal palaces,
and after her accession bestowed it on Sir Walter Raleigh. In Aubrey's "Letters" Raleigh's
occupation of the house is mentioned in a descriptive passage: "Durham House was a noble palace....
I well remember his (Raleigh's) study, which was on a little turret that looked into and over
the Thames, and had the prospect which is, perhaps, as pleasant as any in the world." When
Raleigh was imprisoned the See of Durham again obtained the house. The stables, facing the
Strand, were then in a very ruinous condition, and were pulled down. On their site was built
an exchange, called the New Exchange, which obtained some popularity. This was erected partly
on the pattern of the Royal Exchange, and was opened by King James I. This, Strype tells us,
"was for milliners, sempstresses, and other trades that furnish dresses."

The place was opened in 1609 by James I. and the Queen; it was called Britain's Burse. It became
fashionable after the Restoration, and, after a period of popularity lasting a little more
than fifty years, it was taken down. Here Anne Clarges, daughter of John Clarges, a farrier
of the Savoy, sold gloves, washballs, and powder. She married General Monk, and died Duchess
of Albemarle. Here Henry Herringman, publisher, had his shop. The Restoration literature abounds
in references to the New Exchange. The shops were served by girls who spent a great part of
their time in flirting with the fops. The Duchess of Tyrconnell, sister of Sarah, Duchess of
Marlborough, is said to have kept a shop here for her own maintenance, wearing a white mask
which she never removed. The lower walk was a notorious place for assignations. It was taken
down in 1737. In 1768 the brothers Adam obtained the lease of the ground and began to build.
Robert Adam had been much struck in his foreign travels with the palace of Diocletian on the
Bay of Spalatro. The terrace facing the sea had impressed his imagination, and the Adelphi
Terrace is the result of his adaptation of the idea. It was necessary to gain a solid foundation
on the slippery river-bank, therefore the brothers designed the wonderful system of arches
on which all the Adelphi precinct rests. On building their terrace they had to encroach on
the river, and form an embankment, which was much resented by the Londoners. The centre house
in the terrace was taken by Garrick, who remained there until his death, about seven years
later. The arches were at first left open, but formed a refuge for the vicious and destitute,
who made a regular city of the underground passages. They were subsequently filled in, and
now are brewers' vaults, with only the high-vaulted roadway left open to form a passage for
the drays and vans. Beneath the terrace is a curious little strip of land cut off from the
Embankment garden by high wooden pales. This is practically useless, as it can only be reached
through the arches. On it is an old dilapidated shed, once a much-frequented tavern, called
the Fox under the Hill, a curious feature on land which is of so much value.

There are several interesting houses in the Adelphi precinct. In the centre of the terrace
is the Savage Club, and there are many other societies and institutions on the terrace. In
John Street is the building expressly designed for the Society of Arts.

The work of the Society is brought before the notice of the public by circular tablets, which
are affixed to houses in London which have formerly been the homes of men eminent in literature,
science, or art. Close at hand is the bank of Messrs. Coutts, on the site of the New Exchange.
This important bank deserves some special notice. It was established by a goldsmith of the
name of Middleton, who kept a shop near St. Martin's Church about 1692. The name of Coutts
first appears in 1755. Many interesting stories are told in connection with this famous house.
The Mr. Coutts who was head of the firm at the beginning of the present century was twice married.
By his first wife he had three daughters, who married respectively the third Earl of Guilford,
the first Marquess of Bute, and Sir Francis Burdett. His second wife was Miss Mellon, an actress,
to whom he left the whole of his vast fortune. She afterwards married the Duke of St. Albans,
but left the whole of her great wealth to Miss Angela Burdett, grand-daughter of Mr. Coutts.
This lady assumed the additional name of Coutts, and was raised to the peerage on account of
her munificent charities.

The Adelphi Theatre stands on the north side of the Strand, but is identified by name with
this district; it was originally called the Sans Pareil. Charles Mathews gave many of his celebrated
"at homes" here. A few doors west is the Vaudeville.

Ivy Bridge Lane, now closed, runs to the west of Salisbury Street. It is a narrow, dirty passage,
and was named from a bridge in the Strand which crossed one of the numerous rivulets running
down to the Thames. Pennant mentions a house of the Earl of Rutland's near this bridge. The
Cecil Hotel is built over Salisbury and Cecil Streets, names that recall a mansion of Sir Robert
Cecil, second son of Lord Burleigh, called Salisbury House.

Adjacent to this stood Worcester House. It was originally the town-house of the Bishops of
Carlisle; at the Reformation it was presented to the Earl of Bedford, and known as Bedford
House, until the owner built another house on the north side of the Strand. It then became
the property of the Marquis of Worcester, and was known as Worcester House. Lord Clarendon
lived here after the Restoration. At Worcester House his daughter Anne was married to the Duke
of York. Lord Clarendon left the house, and went to live in St. James's Street. Worcester House
was then used for great occasions.

Here the Duke of Ormond (1669) was installed Chancellor of the University of Oxford, and in
1674 the Duke of Monmouth Chancellor of the University of Cambridge. The Worcester House Conference
was also held in the hall of this place. Beaufort Buildings occupy a part of the site. The
house itself was destroyed by the Duke of Beaufort.

Exeter Street and Hall (north) preserve the name of Exeter House, built by Lord Burleigh. It
was at first Cecil House, but on the succession of his eldest son, the Earl of Exeter, elder
brother of Sir Robert Cecil, it became Exeter House. Afterwards the house was used by Doctors
of Ecclesiastical Law, etc., and later was converted into an exchange, at first designed for
the sale of fancy goods, but later famous for an exhibition of wild beasts. The body of Gay
the poet rested in this Exchange before being interred in Westminster Abbey.

Exeter Hall was erected in 1830 for the purpose of religious meetings. Exeter Street will always
be associated with the name of Dr. Johnson, who took lodgings here when he came up to London
first, and dined at a neighbouring cookshop for eightpence.

The Lyceum Theatre was designed by S. Beazley, and opened in 1834. It will be always associated
with the names of Sir Henry Irving and Ellen Terry. It stands on the site of the English Opera-House,
burnt down in 1830, which during many years was the home of a quaint convivial gathering, called
the Beefsteak Society, founded by Rich and Lambert in 1735. The members dined together off
beefsteaks at five o'clock on Saturdays from November until the end of June. The gridiron was
their emblem.

Just before arriving at Wellington Street there is a glimpse of green trees, and of a brilliant
bed of flowers, down a little narrow street on the south side of the Strand. Many people must
have noticed these things, few have had the curiosity to explore further; yet it is well worth
while to get down from omnibus or cab and venture into this little backwater of the Savoy.
Between eleven and one, and two and four o'clock every day the garden gate is open, and the
verger is in the chapel, ready to answer questions. The little graveyard garden, with its waving
trees, is a veritable oasis in the desert of brick and mortar, and the quaint chapel with its
turret forms a suitable background. The precincts of the Savoy appertain to the Duchy of Lancaster,
and as such are royal property; the reigning Sovereign keeps up the place, and pays for choir
and service. In former days many irregular marriages were performed here, until the place gained
a reputation second only to the Fleet Prison. Weddings are still held here, though the procedure
is now strictly legal. The origin of the church was in the reign of Henry VII., but the fire
which raged in 1864, and burnt out the interior, destroyed many old relics, and the present
interior is Early Victorian. There is a curious old oil-painting opposite the door, which looks
as if it had been part of a triptych, and in the chancel two quaint little stone figures, which
survived the fire. The latest stained-glass window was filled in quite recently in memory of
D'Oyley Carte. It was unveiled by Sir Henry Irving in the spring of 1902. Several persons of
importance have been buried here, but none whose names are sufficiently well known to merit
quotation. Many Bishops have been consecrated in the chapel, and it was here that the memorable
Conference on the Book of Common Prayer took place in Charles II.'s reign. The chapel was made
parochial after the greedy Somerset had destroyed the first Church of St. Mary le Strand, in
order to use its materials for his own mansion. It had before that time been dedicated to St.
John the Baptist, but was henceforth known as St. Mary le Savoy.

