Somewhat later in the century a different movement was started by a woman, which involved many
of the highest in rank at court. This took the form of a kind of mystical enthusiasm, running
into a theory of pure love, and was instigated by Mme. Guyon, a widow, still young, and gifted
with a lofty and subtile mind. After losing her husband, whom she had converted to her religious
views, she went, in 1680, to Paris to educate her children. Becoming interested in religion,
she went to Geneva, where she became very intimate with a priest who was her spiritual director,
and whom she soon wholly subjected to her influence. On account of their views on sanctification,
they were ordered to leave.

After travelling over Europe for a number of years, and writing several works, including Spiritual
Torrents and Short and Easy Method of Making Orison with the Heart, the widow returned to Paris,
with the intention of living in retirement; but so many persons of all ranks sought her out,
that she organized, for ladies of rank, meetings for purposes of prayer and religious conversation.
The Duchess of Beauvilliers, the Duchess of Béthune, the Countess of Guiche, the Countess of
Chevreuse, and many others, with their husbands, became her devoted adherents.

According to Mme. Thus, her doctrine was directly opposite to the theories of the Jansenists.

At that time, 1687 to 1688, all religious movements, however quiet, were condemned at Rome;
and the teachings of Mme. Guyon were found to differ very little from those of the Spanish
priest Molinas. The first arrest, that of her friend Lacombe, was soon followed by that of
Mme. Guyon herself, by royal order; she was released through the intercession of Mme. de Maintenon,
who was fascinated by her to the extent of permitting her to teach her doctrines at Saint-Cyr,
Upon the appearance of her Method of Prayer, an examination was instituted by Bossuet and Fénelon,
who marked out a few passages as erroneous—a procedure to which she submitted. However, Bossuet
himself wrote a treatise against her Method of Prayer, in which he cast reflections upon her
character and conduct; to that work Fénelon refused to subscribe, which antagonistic proceeding
brought on the great quarrel between those two absolute ecclesiasts. In fact, Fénelon became
imbued with the doctrines of Mme. Guyon.

She was imprisoned at various times; and when a letter was received from Lacombe, who had been
imprisoned at Vincennes for a long time, exhorting her to repent of their criminal intimacy,
Mme. Guyon's cause was hopeless. She was sent to the Bastille, her son was dismissed from the
army, and many of her friends were banished. In 1702 she was released from prison and banished
to Diziers; she passed the remainder of her life in complete retirement at Blois.

Fénelon had written a treatise, Maxims of the Saints, which was said to favor Mme. Guyon's
doctrines, and which was sent to Rome for examination.

Such a doctrine made repentance unnecessary, destroyed all effort to withstand evil, and did
not acknowledge the need of a Redeemer. This the great Bossuet foresaw; consequently, he, as
the supreme religious potentate of his inferior in rank, Fénelon, demanded the condemnation
by the latter of the works of Mme. Guyon. The refusal cost Fénelon exile for life.

Thus, in the seventeenth century, religious agitations and religious reform were the work preëminently
of women; but that reform and those agitations were productive of good results to a far greater
degree than was any similar movement in any other century, with the possible exception of the
nineteenth. The seventeenth century was, as mentioned before, a century of stability, one that
toned down and crushed all violations and abuses of the standard established by authority.
Woman, in her constant striving for the complete emancipation and gradual purification of her
sex, rebelled against the power of established authority; she did not consciously or intentionally
violate law and order, but in her intense desire to act for good as she saw it, and in her
noble efforts to ameliorate all undesirable conditions, she created commotion and confusion.
The seventeenth-century woman is conspicuous as a champion of religion, moral purity, and social
reform; therefore, her influence was mainly social, religious, moral, and literary, while that
of the woman of the sixteenth century was mainly political. This difference was the result
of the greater advantages of education and training enjoyed by the females of the later period.

In the beginning of the seventeenth century, young girls were granted greater privileges and
received more attention from men and society than did their predecessors; they thus had more
opportunities for mental development, more occasion to become aware of the temptations and
injustices of life, without falling prey to them. Such young girls as Julie d'Angennes, Mlle.
d'Arquenay, and Mlle. de Pisani, took part in the balls, fêtes, garden parties, and all amusements
in which society indulged. They met young men of their own age and became intimately acquainted
with them, morals were purer, marriages of affection were much more frequent, and the state
of married life was much more congenial, than in any other century. Young men paid court to
the older ladies, to refine their manners and sharpen their intellects, but not for any immoral
purpose. To a certain extent women were more world-wise when they reached the marriageable
age, and inspired respect and admiration rather than passion and desire as in the next century.

Young girls of the seventeenth century were early placed in a convent, and when they left it
they were ready for marriage; in the meantime, they frequently visited home and associated
with their parents and brothers; at the convents intellectual intercourse with people of high
rank and men of letters was encouraged. Yet the discipline at those institutions was very rigid,
the boarders being more carefully watched then than later on; two nuns always accompanied them
on their walks, and when not busy with their studies, to prevent the mind from wandering, they
were kept busy with their hands; "the transports of the soul of the young girl, as every reflection
of the intelligence, are watched and held in check, every one of her inclinations opposed,
all originality suppressed."

At first the convents were reproached for stifling all culture and development and applying
only correction and mortification of the flesh. Mme. de Maintenon opposed such a state of affairs,
but her methods discouraged true independence. The happiness of her charges was her one aim,
but they had no voice in the matter. When of marriageable age, they were given a trousseau
and a husband; however, they were taught to be reasonable.

In that century, the young girl, mixing more generally in society, received greater consideration—hence,
she became more active and conspicuous. It will be seen that the rôle played by the eighteenth
century woman was not so much played by the young woman as it was by the woman of mature years,
of the mother, the counsellor—the indispensable element of society. There were three classes
of women—young women, mature women who sought consideration, and old women who received respect
and deference, and who, as arbiters of culture, upheld the principles already established.

A young man making his début had to find favor with one of those classes which decided his
future reputation and the extent of his favor at court, and assigned him his place and grade,
upon which depended his marriage. All education was directed to the one end—social success.
The duty of the tutor charged with the instruction of a young son was to give a well-rounded,
general education; by the mother, he was taught politeness, grace, amiability—a part of his
training to which more importance was attached than to the intellectual portion. Whenever a
young man was guilty of misconduct toward a woman, his mother was notified of the occurrence,
on the same evening, and he promptly received his reprimand. This spirit naturally fostered
that rare politeness, exquisite taste and tact in conversation, in which the eighteenth century
excels.

But where did the young girls receive the education which gave them such prestige—that consummate
art of conversation exemplified in Mme. de Boufflers, Mme. de Luxembourg, Mme. de Sabran, the
Duchess of Choiseul, the Princess of Beauvau, the Countess of Ségur? The sons were educated
in the usages of the bonne compagnie by the mothers, but the daughters did not enjoy that attention,
for, at the age of five or six years, they were sent to the convent; there the mother's influence
could not have reached them, and they never left the convent except to marry. The middle class
imitated the higher class, and family life became practically impossible. All men of any importance
had a charge at court or a grade in the army, and lived away from their families. A large number
of women were attached to the queen, spending the greater part of their time at Versailles;
the little time passed at their homes was entirely occupied in preparation for the evening
causeries at the salons, in reading new books, acquiring information upon current events, and
in superintending the making of the many necessary and always elaborate gowns; as M. Perey
so well says, "as the toilettes and hairdressing took up the greater part of the morning, they
devoted the time used by the coiffeur, in constructing complicated edifices that crushed down
the heads of women, to the reading of new books."

Nearly every large establishment kept open house, dining from twenty to thirty persons every
day. They dined at one, separated at three, were at the theatre at five, and returned with
as many friends as possible—the more, the greater the reputation for hospitality and popularity.
Under such circumstances, the mother had no time for the daughters, nor were the conversations
at those dinners food for young, innocent girls—and innocence was the first requirement of
a marriageable young woman.

The great convents were the Abbaye-aux-Bois and Penthemont, where the daughters of the wealthiest
and highest families were educated. In those convents or seminaries, strange to say, the young
girls were taught the most practical domestic duties, as well as dancing, music, painting,
etc. Such teachers as Molé and Larrive gave instruction in declamation and reading, and Noverre
and Dauberval in dancing; the teaching nuns were all from the best families. The most complete
costumes, scenic decorations, and other equipments of a complete theatre were supplied, special
hours being set aside for the play. However, much intriguing went on there, and many friendships
and lifelong enmities were formed, which later led to serious troubles.

Often, from the midst of a group of young girls of from ten to fifteen years of age, one would
be notified of her coming marriage with a man she had never seen, and whom, in all probability,
she could not love, having given her heart to another. If it turned out to be an uncongenial
marriage, a separate life would be the result, and, while still absolutely ignorant of the
world, those young married women would fall prey to the charms of young gallants or men of
quality, and a liaison would follow.

The difference between a liaison of the seventeenth century and one of the eighteenth led to
one essential difference in the standards of social and moral etiquette; in the former period,
a liaison meant nothing more censurable than an intimate friendship, a purely platonic love;
the lover simply paid homage to the lady of his choice; it was an attraction of common intellectual
interests and usually lasted for life; in the eighteenth century, a liaison was essentially
immoral, rarely a union of interests, but rather one of passions and physical propensities.
Such relations developed and fostered deceit, intrigues, infidelity, and rivalry, one woman
endeavoring to allure the lover of another; affairs of that nature were the chief topic of
conversation in social circles, and were soon reflected in every phase of the intelligent world.
This will be seen in the study of the eighteenth century. Necker, Mme. d'Epinay, Mme. de Genlis;
with these every literary student is familiar. The second class includes the smaller and less
important literary, philosophical, and social salons—those of Mme. de Marchais, Mme. de Persan,
Mme. de Villars, Mme. de Vaines, and of D'Alembert, D'Holbach, Helvétius. The third class is
of a social nature exclusively, good breeding and good tone being the essentials; its conspicuous
features were the dinners and suppers of Suard, Saurin, the Abbés Raynal and Morellet, of the
Palais-Royal of Mme. de Blot, of the Temple of the Prince of Conti, those of Mme. de Beauvau,
Mme. de Gramont, M. de La Popeliniére, and others.

The distinctions thus made will not hold throughout, but they facilitate the presentation of
a subject that is exceedingly complicated. It may almost be said that each generation of the
eighteenth century had a salon with a different physiognomy; those of 1710, 1730, 1760, and
1780 were all inspired by different motives, causes, and events, and were all led by women
of different histories and aspirations, whose common idol was man, but whose ideas of what
constituted a hero were as widely different as was the constitution of society in the respective
periods. Not until the middle of the reign of Louis XIV. did social life become detached from
Versailles, and, spreading out and circulating in a thousand hôtels, showed itself in all its
force, splendor, and elegance. The celebrated women of the regency—Mme. de Prie, Mme. de Parabère,
Mme. de Sabran—had no salon, while those of the Marquis d'Alluys and the Hôtels de Sully, de
Duras, de Villars, and the suppers of Mme. de Chauvelin were of a distinctly different type
from those of the earlier and the later periods.

In a certain sense, the salons changed the complexion of the age. The eighteenth century itself
was friendly and generous; it was, also, impatient and inexperienced, seeing things not as
they were but as it wished them to be, compelling science and art to serve its purpose. It
was frank, often brutally frank, a characteristic due partly to the conversational license
of the salons. With its Fontenelle, Voltaire, Piron, etc., it was indeed a happy century. A
bon mot was the event of the day and travelled over all the civilized world.

Feeling keenly the need of a guiding principle, the need of a more substantial foundation in
education, the women of the century thought and wrote much on that subject; such was, for the
most part, the work of the great salons, but in them the philosophical tenets of the age were
also discussed. The spirit of criticism thus created and cultivated, which finally spread through
all classes of society, gradually conquered the new power in the state—public opinion which,
at the end of the century, ruled supreme in all its strength and vehemence, defying every effort
of the government to stifle it. The highest form of agreeable and intellectual society which
the world has ever seen attained to its most complete development in these salons.

Every century has had its specialty: the twelfth had its crusades, the sixteenth its religious
struggles, the seventeenth its grand goût, the eighteenth its conversation and love of reason,
the nineteenth its political struggles; and each one displayed the French passion for esprit;
the eighteenth, however, was, par excellence, the century of esprit, and it was most remarkably
developed in woman.

"Such astonishingly loquacious people as lived in Paris in the eighteenth century! ineffective,
sardonic, verbose, sociable, intellectual, elegant, immoral—grand gentlemen and ladies, with
tears for mimic woes and none for actual ones, praise for wit, rewards for cleverness, and
absolute ignorance of the destinies they were preparing for themselves;" such is the story
of women and society of the eighteenth century. Among these women the salon leaders will be
found the most attractive, and the most influential in literature, theory of government, and
social and moral development; to the mistresses belongs the title of "politicians."

La Ménagerie de Mme. de Tencin was one of the earliest of the eighteenth-century salons, although,
in the strict sense of the word, Mme. de Tencin's salon was of a political rather than a literary
nature. Successively nun, mistress, mother, she was one of the shrewdest women of the century.
Born in 1681, she early became a nun; but such was the character of her life at the convent
that it was not long before she became a mother. In 1714 she abandoned her conventual life
and went to Paris, where she rose to influence as the mistress of Cardinal Dubois and of the
regent, the Duke of Orléans. At Paris her real activity began; she arrived at that gay capital
with no other collateral than a pretty face and an extraordinary cunning, which soon brought
her a fortune. Fertile in resources of all kinds, she succeeded immediately, and gained for
her nephew the cardinal's hat. In 1717 was born to her the afterward famous d'Alembert, whom
she left upon the steps of the church Saint-Jean-le-Rond; afterward, when he had become eminent
and her power was waning, she unsuccessfully used every means at her command to gain his favor
and recognition; the father of that child was the Chevalier Destouches.

About 1726, when lovers were numerous and friends plentiful, the death of Lafresnaye occurred
at her salon. In his testament he stated that his death was caused by Mme. de Tencin; however,
she was too shrewd, cunning, and careful to be guilty of permitting any weak points to appear
in her plots, and it was not difficult for her to clear herself of that charge by the verdict
of the judges, who considered the accusation a posthumous vengeance.

The great literary men whom Mme. de Tencin gathered about her, Fontenelle, Montesquieu, Mairan,
Marivaux, Helvétius, Marmontel, were called her menagerie, or her bêtes. Among them, Marivaux
received a pension of one thousand écus from her, besides drawing at will upon the exchequer
of an old maid by the name of Saint-Jean. Marmontel, desirous of writing tragedies, took lessons
from the famous Mlle. Clairon—at his friend's expense. To give a correct idea of the character
of woman's influence upon the literary style of that century, the words of Marmontel may be
quoted: "He who wishes to write with precision, energy, and vigor, may live with man only;
but he who in his style wishes to have subtleness, amenity, charm, flexibility, will do well,
I think, to live with woman."

Mme. de Tencin exerted an immense influence upon the men of her circle, especially socially;
for example, she married the wealthy M. de La Popelinière to Mlle. Dancourt. She was one of
the few really consummate diplomats; later on, she became less associated with intrigues, and
gave lessons in current diplomacy, with which she was perfectly familiar. Her counsel to her
pupils was to gain friends among women rather than among men. "For," she would say, "we do
whatever we wish with men; they are so dissipated, or so preoccupied with their personal interests,
that to give attention to them would be to neglect your own interests."

Every New Year's Day the bêtes of her menagerie received two yards of velvet, to make knickerbockers
to be worn at her receptions; this custom was observed up to the last year of the existence
of her salon. Her receptions were among the first of the kind in France. Like the majority
of salon leaders, she was an authoress of no mean ability. Her novels were widely read at the
time—Le Siège de Calais and Les Malheurs de l'Amour. Her memoirs, throwing light upon the intrigues
and plots, social animosities, and general state of the society of the time, are historically
valuable. She died in Paris, in 1749.

Among all the great salons, that of Mme. de Tencin was the only one in which gambling was indulged
in on a wholesale scale; fortunes changed hands every evening, a large part of the gains always
falling to the lot of the hostess, as a sort of "rake off." She herself was a professional
at the business, and by receiving private information from headquarters, through her famous
friend Law, the contrôleur-général, and her lover Dubois, she was able to acquire an immense
fortune which she distributed freely among her friends and favorites. Her place among the literary
salon leaders depends mainly upon her endeavors to advance the interests of the aspiring young
authors who were willing to place themselves under her protection.

After the death of Mme. de Tencin and that of Mme. de Châtelet, who had received many of the
celebrities of the time, there remained but two distinguished, purely literary and philosophical
salons open in Paris. By right of precedence, the bêtes should have gone over to the salon
of Mme. du Deffand, as she had been established some years when Mme. Geoffrin began to receive
at her residence, which gained its first renown through the exquisite dinners served there.
But the bêtes all flocked to the salon bourgeois, and consequently a more brilliant gathering
never assembled in a salon; here sat, enjoying the liberal hospitalities, Fontenelle, Montesquieu,
Mairan, Marmontel, Helvétius, Diderot, D'Alembert, Thomas, D'Holbach, Hume, Morellet, Mlle.
de Lespinasse, the Marquis de Duras, Comtesses d'Egmont and de Brionne. Here, conversation—which,
in the eighteenth century, was not only a discussion or a dissertation, but an art—reached
its highest development; the members did not need to be eloquent, to expatiate upon some theory
or science; the conversation moved about the members, and they had to be a part of it.

Mme. Geoffrin was born in Paris in 1699, and was the daughter of M. Rodet, valet de chambre
of the dauphiness, Duchesse de Bourgogne, mother of Louis XV. When barely fifteen she was married
to the wealthy M. Geoffrin, the so-called founder of the celebrated Manufacture des Glaces
de Gobelins. Through his wealth and his associations with people of nobility who bought his
ware, she was soon encouraged in her desire to entertain the nobility; and her esprit, tact,
intelligence, and admirable taste in dress were all effective in bringing about the desired
results.

Her career was one of continual successes. When she opened her salon, in 1741, she instituted
the custom of receiving her friends at table, not only men of letters, but artists, architects,
builders, painters, sculptors, all men of genius and prominence. Monday was the day reserved
for artists exclusively; Marmontel, who lived with Mme. Geoffrin for ten years "as her tenant,"
and the indispensable Abbé Morellet were the exceptions who might be present upon that day.
From the very beginning she formed the habit of permitting conversation to go just so far,
then cutting it off with her famous: Voil qui est bien!

Her husband was the maître d'hôtel, of whom many interesting anecdotes are told; the best and
one that illustrates well the appreciation of individuals in those days is the following, which
is so admirably told by Lady Jackson that we quote from her: "For some years, there sat at
the bottom of Mme. Geoffrin's dinner and supper table a dignified-looking, white-haired old
gentleman, bland in manner, but very modest and retiring, speaking only when spoken to, but
looking very happy when the guests seemed to enjoy the good cheer set before them. When, at
last, his customary place became vacant, and some brilliant butterfly of madame's circle of
visiteurs flottants, who, perhaps, had smiled patronizingly upon the silent old gentleman,
becoming aware of his absence, would, perchance, carelessly inquire what had become of her
constant dinner guest, madame would reply: Mais, c'était mon mari. Hélas! il est mort, le bon
homme. [Why, that was my husband! alas, he is dead, poor man!] Just so little was the consideration
shown this worthy creature in his own house! Yet it both pleased and amused him to sit there
silently and gaze at the throng of rank, fashion, and learning, assembled in his wife's salon,
and to witness her social success."

After the death of Mme. Geoffrin's husband, the immense fortune passed under her own management,
whereupon began her real career as a social arbitress, during which she is said to have tempered
both opinions and characters. Thomas said of her that "she was, in morals, like that divinity
of the ancients which maintained or reëstablished limits." She was a great patroness of arts
and her rooms were decorated with pictures by Vanloo, Greuze, Vernet, Robert, etc. She and
her salon became, in time, the acknowledged judge and dictator of matters literary and artistic.
Whenever a financier wished to purchase a certain work of art, it was taken to her Monday dinner,
where the artists determined its artistic value and fixed the price. Her house was a real museum;
there the precious Mariette collection was on permanent exhibition.

Besides her Monday dinners to artists and her Wednesday dinners to the literary world, she
gave private luncheons to a select few who were especially congenial. At those functions, such
celebrities as the Comtesses d'Egmont and de Brionne, the Marquise de Duras, and the Prince
de Rohan were frequent guests.

Mme. Geoffrin was shrewd and tactful enough to avoid politics and not to permit discussions
of a political nature at her salon—precautions which she observed to keep the government from
interfering with her fortune and mode of living. Her salon and dinners became so famous that
every foreigner going to Paris had the ambition to be received at Mme. Geoffrin's; when any
aspirant was successful in this, she would say to her friends: Soyons aimables [Let us be kind].
She spent freely of her immense fortune constantly seeking and aiding the poor. Persons who
refused to accept her charity found little favor with her; Rousseau was one of these. It was
her habit to go frequently to see friends, merely to ascertain their wants and to satisfy them.
The Abbé Morellet, Thomas, D'Alembert, and Mlle. de Lespinasse (the only lady admitted to her
Wednesdays) were given liberal pensions. Upon each New Year's Day, in commemoration of Mme.
de Tencin, she sent each Wednesday guest a velvet cap. Her motto was: Donner et pardonner [Give
and forgive].

