Some people are inclined to grow frivolous and forgetful when the world goes well with them
and the desire of their hearts is accomplished; others are filled with a passion of gratitude
and thanksgiving, and Darsie Garnett belonged to the latter category.  Prosperity made her
more humble, more kindly, more overflowing with love to God and man.  A portrait of Lady Hayes
stood on her study mantelpiece, and every morning and evening she bent her sunny head to kiss
the stern old face.  Dear old Aunt Maria! she had so loved being kissed--really kissed, as
if one meant it.  If in that higher life to which she had gone she knew what was happening
on earth, Darsie felt sure that she would like to know that her portrait was still cherished.
Her thoughts hovered gratefully about the dead woman as she sat in this wonderful old church,
and pictured with awe the succeeding generations who had worshipped within its walls.  It was
only when the sermon was at an end that, turning her head, Darsie met the gaze of a girl sitting
a few seats away, and after a moment of bewilderment recognised the widely set eyes and curling
lips of Margaret France.

In her dark hat and coat she looked less attractive than in evening dress, but the fact made
no difference in the thrill of pleasure with which Darsie realised her presence.  Some quality
in this girl appealed to the deep places of her heart; she realised instinctively that if the
attraction were mutual the tie between them would be close and firm, but it must be all or
nothing--she could never dally with friendship with Margaret France!

Walking home slowly along Silver Street, she found herself answering absently to Hannah's remarks,
her whole attention riveted on watching the passers-by, wondering if by any possibility Margaret
France would stop to speak to her once more, and her heart leaped with exultation as a footstep
paused by her side, and the clear, crisp tones addressed her by name.

"Morning, Miss Garnett!  Morning, Miss Vernon!  Ripping day, isn't it? Glad to see you in King's.
Saw you long before you spotted me, and enjoyed your enjoyment.  Never forgot my first services.
Good to be there, isn't it?"

"Oh-h!"  Darsie's deep-drawn breath of rapture was an eloquent response. "I have been happy!
I've never in my life seen anything so wonderful before.  It seems almost too good to be true
that I can go there every Sunday for years to come.  Cambridge is wonderful.  I am more enchanted
every day.  Even to walk along the streets is a joy."

"Good!" cried Margaret heartily.  "Drop in to five o'clock service sometimes when you're feeling
tired, and tied up with your work.  It's a grand soother.  How goes the work so far?  Enjoying
the lectures? Finding the literature interesting?"

The two Modern Languages discussed work together eagerly, while mathematical Hannah marched
on a few feet ahead.  Darsie felt a pang of remorse, because she could not help wishing that
she would stay ahead, and so give the chance of a prolonged tete-a-tete with Margaret France.
The feeling of attraction was so strong now that they were face to face that it was only by
an effort of will that she could resist slipping her hand through the black serge arm, but
the expression of her face was eloquent, and Margaret smiled back well pleased.  When they
parted a few minutes later to go to their different halls, the older girl said casually, but
in a lowered voice which showed that the invitation was meant for Darsie alone--

"By the way, I'm at home for cocoa on Tuesday evenings at ten.  Bring your milk, and come along,
will you!  I'd like to have you."

"Rather!" cried Darsie eloquently, and ran up to her room aglow with delight and pride, which
grew still deeper at lunch when a casual reference to the invitation (it was really impossible
to keep silent on so thrilling a point!) evoked a wide stare of surprise.

"To her Tuesdays!  Are you sure?  Nobody goes to those but her very boon companions.  You are
honoured!"

"Didn't ask me, I notice!" sniffed Hannah huffily.  "No twin soul here.  Recognised an affinity
in you, I suppose."

"Well, I wasn't asked to play in team matches!  Don't grudge me my little score!" returned
Darsie, knowing well that an honour in sport was more to her companion than many cocoas.  "Besides,
you must remember you have Helen Ross!"

"Oh, ah, yes!  Helen Ross dotes on me.  Disinterested, of course.  No connection with the brother
over the way!" commented Hannah with a grin. "By the way, I hear from Dan that your friend
Ralph Percival is in trouble already, playing cards, getting into debt, and staying out after
hours.  Seems to be a poor-spirited sort of fellow from all accounts!"

"He saved my life, anyway, when I was a youngster, and very nearly drowned myself, paddling
up a mill-stream.  There's no want of spirit about Ralph.  Life has been made too easy for
him, that's the mischief!" said Darsie in her most elderly and judicial manner.  "It's difficult
to keep to the grind when you know that you will never need to work.  He needs an object in
life.  Until he finds that, he will be content to drift."

"He'll drift into being sent down at this rate.  That will be the end of him!" croaked Hannah
gloomily; whereupon Darsie knitted her brows and collapsed into silence for the rest of the meal.

Poor, dear, handsome Ralph!  At the bottom of her heart Darsie was hardly surprised to hear
Hannah's report.  The indifference with which he had entered upon his college life had not
developed into any more earnest spirit, as had been abundantly proved by his conversation when
the two had last met, during the long vacation, while the hesitating manner of his mother and
sisters seemed to hint at a hidden anxiety.  In the depths of her heart Darsie was feeling
considerably piqued by the fact that though she had now been over a month in Cambridge Ralph
had shown no anxiety to meet her, or to fulfil his promise of "showing the ropes."  Other girls
had been invited to merry tea-parties in the different colleges, and almost daily she had expected
such an invitation for herself, but neither of her two men friends had paid her this mark of
attention; but for the fact of an occasional meeting in the streets they might as well have
been at the other end of the land.  Pride forbade her commenting on the fact even to Hannah;
but inwardly she had determined to be very proud and haughty when the deferred meeting came
about.  Dan was too wrapped up in himself to care for outsiders; Ralph was a slacker--not worth
a thought.  Darsie dismissed them both with a shrug.  Margaret France was worth a dozen men
put together!

Ten o'clock on Tuesday evening seemed long in coming, but the moment that the clock pointed
to the hour Darsie hastened to her new friend's study, and to her satisfaction found her still
alone.  The room looked delightfully cosy with pink shades over the lights, a clear blaze upon
the grate, and Margaret herself, in a pink rest-gown curled up in a wicker-chair, was the very
embodiment of ease.  She did not rise as Darsie entered, but pointed to a chair close at hand,
with an eagerness which was in itself the best welcome.

"That's right.  Come along!  I'm glad you're the first.  Sit down and look around.  How do
you like my den?"

Darsie stared to right and left with curious eyes, and came to the instant conclusion that
Margaret's room was like herself.  From floor to ceiling, from window to door, there was not
one single article which did not give back a cheering impression.  If the article were composed
of metal, it shone and glittered until it could shine no farther; if of oak, every leaf and
moulding spoke of elbow-grease, and clean, fresh- smelling polish; if it were a fabric of wool
or cotton, it was invariably of some shade of rose, shedding, as it were, an aspect of summer
in the midst of November gloom.

Over the fireplace was fastened a long brown-paper scroll, on which some words were painted
in big ornamental letters.  Darsie read them with a thrill of appreciation--

  "Two men looked out through prison bars,
  One saw mud, the other stars!"

The eyes of the two girls met, and lingered.  Then Darsie spoke--

"That's your motto in life!  You look out for stars--"

"Yes!  So do you.  That's why I wanted to be friends."

"I wonder!" mused Darsie, and sat silent, gazing into the fire.  "It is beautiful, and I understand
the drift, but--would you mind paraphrasing it for my benefit?"

"It's so simple.  There is mud, and there are stars.  It's just a choice of where we choose
to look."

"Yes--I see.  But don't you think there are times--when one is awfully down on one's luck,
for instance--when there's no one on earth so trying as the persistent optimist who will make
the best of everything, and take a cheerful view!  You want to murder him in cold blood.  I
do, at least.  You feel ever so much more cheered by some one who acknowledges the mud, and
says how horrid it is, and pities you for sticking so fast!"

Margaret's ringing laugh showed all her pretty white teeth.  She rubbed her hands together
in delighted appreciation.

"Oh, I know, I know!  I want to kill them, too.  Vision's not a mite of use without tact. 
But no bars can shut out the stars if we choose to let them shine."

Her own face was ashine as she spoke, but anything more unlike "goodiness," abhorred by every
normal girl, it would be impossible to imagine.

"Tell me about your work--how do you get on with your coach?" she asked the next moment, switching
off to ordinary subjects in the most easy and natural of manners, and Darsie found herself
laying bare all the little hitches and difficulties which must needs enter into even the most
congenial course of study, and being alternately laughed at and consoled, and directed towards
a solution by brisk, apt words.

"You're all right--you've got a head.  You'll come through on top, if you'll be content to
go slow.  Want to take the Tripos first year, and honours at that--that's your style!  Calm
down, my dear, and be content to jog.  It pays better in the end."  She flashed a radiant smile
at Darsie's reddening face, then jumped up to greet her other guests of the evening, three
in number, who appeared at that moment, each carrying her own precious portion of milk.

One was "Economics" and owned so square a jaw that the line of it (there was no curve) seemed
to run down straight with the ear; another was "Science" and wore spectacles; a third was "Modern
Languages," like the host, but one and all shared an apparently unlimited appetite for Cocoa,
Conversation, and Chelsea buns, the which they proceeded to enjoy to the full.  "Modern Languages"
being in the ascendant, indulged in a little "shop" as a preliminary, accompanied by the sighs,
groans, and complaints incidental to the subject.

"How's your drama getting on?  Is it developing satisfactorily?" Student Number Two inquired
of Darsie, in reference to the paper given out at the last lecture in Divinity Hall, and Darsie
shrugged with a plaintive air.

"I've been struggling to develop it, to trace its development, as he said; but the tracings
are decidedly dim!  I get on much better with a subject on which I can throw a little imagination.
`The growth of the novel,' for instance--I wove quite a fairy-tale out of that."

The girls smiled, but with a dubious air.

"Better be careful!  That's a ruse which most of us have tried in our day, and come wearily
back to sober fact...  How do you like the Historical French Grammar?"

The Fresher made a gesture as if to tear her hair, whereupon the second- year girls groaned
in chorus.

"Hopeless!  Piteous!  In last year's Tripos the paper was positively inhuman.  The girls said
it was impossible even to understand the questions, much less to answer them."

"Wicked!  Waste of time, I call it.  Most of us are training to teach, but it's not one in
a hundred who will be called upon to teach that erudite horror."

Darsie looked at Margaret France as she spoke, and saw at once by the expression of her companions
that she had touched on a delicate subject. There was a moment's silence, then--

"I am not going to teach," said Margaret, smiling.

"Really!  Then-- What are you going to do?"

"Live at home."

A future profession seemed so universal a prospect with the Newnham students that Margaret's
reply amazed Darsie as much as it appeared to annoy her other hearers.

Economics sniffed, and muttered beneath her breath; Science stared fixedly at the ceiling through
her glittering spectacles; Modern Languages groaned aloud.

"With your brain!  With your spirit!  After this training!  Such wicked waste..."

Margaret laughed lightly.

"Oh, Darsie Garnett, how mean of you, when I feed you with my best Chelsea buns, to land me
in this time-honoured discussion!  I'm an only child, and my parents have been perfect bricks
in giving me my wish and sparing me for three whole years!  The least I can do is to go home
and do a turn for them.  I fail to see where the waste comes in!"

"All you have learned--all you have studied--all you have read--"

"Just so!  I hope it will make me a more interesting companion for them. And for myself!  I've
got to live with myself all the days of my life, remember, and I do not wish to be bored!"

"You have such power, such capacity!  You might do some work for the world!"

"I intend to.  What's the world made up of, after all, but a number of separate homes?  As
a matter of ordinary common sense isn't it best to work in one's own home, rather than in a
strange one?"

Margaret threw out her hands with a pretty appealing gesture, and her companions stared at
her in silence, apparently too nonplussed to reply. Before they had time to rally to the attack,
however, a startling interruption had occurred.

With a suddenness and violence which made the cocoa-drinkers jump in their seats the door burst
open, and the figure of a girl in evening dress precipitated herself into their midst.  Her
light skirt was thrown over her shoulders, revealing an abbreviated white petticoat; her eyes
were fixed with a deadly determination; regardless of the occupants of the room or of the articles
of furniture scattered here and there, she flew at lightning speed to the window, closed it
with a resounding bang, leaped like a cat at the ventilator overhead, banged that also, and
with one bound was out of the room, the door making a third bang in her wake.

Darsie gasped in dismay.  She herself had been transfixed with astonishment, but her companions
had displayed a marvellous self- possession.  Margaret had wrapped her arms round the cocoa-table
to protect it from upset, another girl had steadied the screen, a third had obligingly lifted
her chair out of the way; but no sign of alarm or curiosity showed upon their faces, which
fact did but heighten the mystery of the situation.

"Is she--is she mad?"

The second-year girls laughed in chorus.  From afar could be heard a succession of bang, bang,
bangs, as if in every study in the house the same performance was being enacted.  Margaret
nodded at the Fresher with kindly reassurance.

"Only the fire drill!  They've had an alarm, and she's told to shut off draughts.  Very good
going!  Not more than five or six seconds all told!"

"There isn't really--"

"Oh, dear, no.  No such luck!  Poor fun having a fire brigade, and no chance to show its mettle.
But we live in hope.  You ought to join.  I can imagine you making a magnificent captain."

So here was another ambition.  Darsie made a mental note to inquire into the workings of the
fire brigade, and to offer her name as a recruit without delay.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

THE FANCY BALL.

It was somewhat of a shock to the Fresher contingency to receive one morning the intimation
of a Costume Ball, to be held in Clough Hall on the following night; but their protests met
with scant sympathy from the elders.  When Darsie plaintively declared that she hadn't got
a fancy dress, and would not have time to send home for it if she had, a third-year girl silenced
her by a stern counter-question: "And where, pray, would be the fun if you had, and could?
If at the cost of a postcard you could be fitted up as the Lady of the Lake in green draperies
and water-lilies, it would no doubt be exceedingly becoming, but it would be no sport.  No,
young woman, you've got to contrive something out of nothing and an hour stolen from the night,
and when you've done it you'll be in the mood to appreciate other people's contrivings into
the bargain.  Buck up!  You're one of the dressy sort. We'll expect wonders from you."

But when Darsie repaired to the seclusion of her study and set herself to the problem of evolving
a fancy dress out of an ordinary college outfit, ideas were remarkably slow in coming.  She
looked questioningly at each piece of drapery in turns, wondered if she could be a ghost in
curtains, a statue in sheets, an eastern houri in the cotton quilt, a Portia in the hearthrug,
discarded each possibility in turn, and turned her attention to her own wardrobe.

Black serge, grey tweed, violet ninon; two evening frocks, and the one white satin which was
the piece de resistance of the whole.  A cloth coat, a mackintosh, an art serge cloak for evening
wear--how could one manufacture a fancy dress from garments so ordinary as these?

In despair, Darsie betook herself to Margaret France's room and found that young woman seated
before her dressing-table engaged in staring fixedly at her own reflection in the mirror. 
She betrayed no embarrassment at being discovered in so compromising a position, but smiled
a broad smile of welcome out of the mirror, the while she continued to turn and to twist, and
hold up a hand-glass to scrutinise more closely unknown aspects of face and head.

"I know what you've come for!  I've had two Freshers already.  Bowled over at the thought of
inventing a costume--that's it, isn't it?  Oh, you'll rise to it yet.  The only difficulty
is to hit on an idea--the rest's as easy as pie.  That's what I'm doing now--studying my phiz
to see what it suggests.  My nose, now!  What d'you think of my nose? Seems to me that nose
wasn't given me for nothing.  And the width between the eyes!  It's borne in upon me that I
must be either a turnip lantern or a Dutch doll.  The doll would probably be the most becoming,
so I'll plump for that.  Don't breathe a word, for it must be a secret to the last.  As for
you--it would be easy to suggest a dozen pretty- pretties."

Margaret wheeled round in her chair, and sat nursing her knees, regarding Darsie with a twinkling
eye.  "Big eyes, long neck, neat little feet--you'd make an adorable Alice in Wonderland, with
ankle- strap slippers, and a comb, and a dear little pinny over a blue frock! And your friend
can be the Mad Hatter.  Look well, wouldn't she, with a hat on one side?  There are only the
girls to see you, and the more comic you can make yourself the better they'll be pleased. 
You are about to be introduced to a new side of Newnham life, and will see how mad the students
can be when they let themselves go.  You'll laugh yourself ill before the evening's over. 
Well, think it over, and come back to me if you want any properties.  My dress will be easy
enough-- braided hair, short white frock (butter-muslin at a penny the yard), white stockings
with sandals, another pair of stockings to cover my arms, chalked face and neck, with peaked
eyebrows and neat little spots of red on the cheekbones and tip of the chin.  If you feel inclined
to be angelic, you might run up with your paint-box at the last minute, and dab on my joints."

"Joints!"

Darsie gaped in bewilderment, whereupon Margaret cried resentfully--

"Well, I must have joints, mustn't I?  How do you expect me to move? A paint-box is invaluable
on these occasions, as you'll find before you are through.  Now, my love, I'll bid you a fond
adieu, for work presses. By the by, one word in your ear!  Don't ask a third-year girl to dance
with you if you value your nose!"

"What will happen to it if I do?"

"Snapped off!  Never mind I look pretty and meek, and perhaps she'll ask you.  Now be off--be
off--I must to work!"

Darsie descended to Hannah's study and proposed the idea of the Mad Hatter, the which was instantly
and scornfully declined.  Hannah explained at length that though her head might be plain, it
yet contained more brains than other heads she could mention, and that to play the part of
idiot for a whole night long was a feat beyond the powers of a mathematical student reading
for honours.  She then explained with a dignity which seemed somewhat misplaced that she had
set her heart upon representing a pillar-box, and was even now on the point of sallying forth
to purchase a trio of hat-boxes, which, being of fashionable dimensions, would comfortably
encircle her body.  Fastened together so as to form a tube, covered with red sateen, and supported
by scarlet-stockinged legs, the effect would be pleasingly true to life.

"I'll have peep-holes for eyes, and the slit will outline my mouth. Between the dances I'll
kneel down in a corner so that the box touches the ground, and I'll look so real, that I shall
expect every one to drop in letters--chocolate letters, observe!  You might buy some and set
the example!"

For the next twenty-four hours an unusual air of excitement and bustle pervaded the college,
and the conversation at mealtime consisted for the most part of fragmentary questions and answers
bearing on the important subject of costumes in making.

"Lend me your boot brushes, like a lamb!"

"Got an old pair of brown stockings you can't wear again?"

"Be an angel and lend me your striped curtains just for the night!"

"Spare just ten minutes to sew up my back?"

So on it went, and in truth it was a pleasant chance to hear the merry, inconsequent chatter;
for, like every other class of the community, girl students have their besetting sins, and
one of the most obvious of these is an air of assurance, of dogmatism, of final knowledge of
life, against which there can be no appeal.  Girls of nineteen and twenty will settle a dispute
of ages with a casual word; students of economy will advance original schemes warranted to
wipe the offence of poverty from the globe; science students with unlowered voices will indulge
across the dinner-table in scathing criticisms on historic creeds which their fathers hold
in reverence; and on each young face, on each young tongue, can be read the same story of certainty
and self-esteem.

This state of mind is either sad, amusing, or exasperating, according to the mood of the hearer;
but, whatever be his mood, he yet knows in his heart that it is a transitory phase, and an
almost inevitable result of theoretical knowledge.  A few years of personal grip with life
and its problems will make short work of that over-confidence, and replace it with a gentler,
sweeter touch.

But to-night was a night of frolic, and one would have to travel far indeed to find a more
amusing spectacle than an impromptu costume dance in Clough Hall.  Beauty is a secondary consideration,
and the girl who has achieved the oddest and most ludicrous appearance is the heroine of the
hour.  Darsie Garnett made a fascinating Alice in Wonderland in her short blue frock, white
pinny, and little ankle-strap slippers, her hair fastened back by an old-fashioned round comb,
and eyebrows painted into an inquiring arch, but she received no attention in comparison with
that lavished upon Hannah, when she dashed nimbly in at the door, and, kneeling down in a corner
of the room, presented a really lifelike appearance of a pillar-box, a white label bearing
the hours of "Chocolate deliveries" pasted conspicuously beneath the slit.  Hannah's prophecies
proved correct, for it became one of the amusements of the evening to feed that yawning cavity
with chocolates and other dainties, so that more than one sweet tooth in the assembly made
a note of the suggestion for a future day.

The Dutch Doll was another huge success; for so dolly and so beyond all things Dutch did she
appear, standing within the doorway with jointed arms and rigid back, with dark hair plastered
over the forehead in the well-known curve, and the three little spots of colour blazing out
from the whitened background, that it was almost impossible to believe that she was living
flesh and blood.  Like a statue she stood until the laughter and applause had lasted for several
minutes, and then, stepping jerkily on one side, made way for a new and even more startling
apparition.

Topsy, by all that was wonderful and unexpected!  A beaming, grinning little nigger girl, with
tightly curled hair, rolling eyes, and white teeth showing to the gums.  A short gown of brilliantly
striped cotton reached to the knees, brown-stockinged arms and legs were matched by brown-painted
face and neck; standing side by side with the Dutch Doll, the respective whiteness and brownness
became accentuated to a positively dazzling extent, and the onlookers were jubilant with delight.
The climax was reached when the two waltzed off together round the room, the doll sustaining
a delightful stiffness and stoniness of mien, while Topsy's grin threatened to reach to her
very ears.

Ordinary costumes fell somewhat flat after these triumphs, though to the Freshers there was
a continuing joy in beholding dignified students in their third year pirouetting in childlike
abandonment.  There, for instance, was the cleverest girl in college, of whom it was accepted
as a certainty that she would become a world-wide celebrity, an austere and remote personage
who was seldom seen to smile; there she stood, the daintiest Christmas Cracker that one could
wish to behold, in a sheath of shimmery pink, tied in the middle by a golden string, finished
at either end with a froth of frills, and ornamented front and back with immense bouquets of
flowers.  By an ingenious arrangement also, if you pulled a string in a certain way, a mysterious
cracking sound was heard, and a motto made its appearance bearing an original couplet whose
reference was strictly and delightfully local.

The run on these mottoes was great, and after their points were fully enjoyed, they were folded
carefully away, to be kept as souvenirs of the great scholar of later years.

The evening was half over, and the girls had settled down to the dance, when suddenly, unexpectedly,
the great excitement arrived.  At a moment when the music had ceased, and the various couples
were preparing for the usual promenade around the Hall, a loud roar was heard from without,
and into the middle of the floor there trotted nothing more nor less than a tawny yellow lion,
which, being confronted by a crowd of spectators, drew back as if in fear, and crouched in
threatening manner. Its masked face showed a savage row of teeth; a mass of red hair, shortened
by that mysterious process known as "back combing," produced a sufficiently convincing mane;
a yellow skin hearthrug was wrapped round the body, while paint and wadding combined had contrived
a wonderfully good imitation of claws.

It was the colour of the hair alone which revealed the identity of the Lion to her companions.
"It's that wretched little ginger Georgie!"

"That little ginger beast!" went the cry from lip to lip.  But, abuse her as they might, for
the rest of the evening "Ginger Georgie" remained the centre of attraction, as she persistently
ambled after Topsy, and gnawed at her brown feet, evidently recognising in her at once a compatriot
and a tit-bit.

Well, well!  Il faut souffrire pour etre--celebre!  When supper-time arrived, and the lion's
mask was removed, behold a countenance so magenta with heat that compared with it even the
Letter Box herself was pale.  The two sufferers were waited upon with the most assiduous attention,
as was indeed only fair.  When one has voluntarily endured a condition of semi-suffocation
throughout an evening's "pleasuring" for the unselfish reason of providing amusement for others,
it's a poor thing if one cannot be assisted to lemonade in return.

The Lion sat up well into the night combing out her mane; the Letter Box had the first bad
headache in her life, but both tumbled into bed at last, proud and happy in the remembrance
of an historic success.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

UNDERGRADUATE FRIENDS.

Hannah strolled into Darsie's study, open letter in hand.  "Here's games!" she announced. 
"An invitation from Mrs Hoare for myself and friend--that's you--to go to tea on Sunday afternoon.
That's because I'm Dan's sister, of course.  He'll be there, too, I expect, and the handsome
Percival, and lots more men.  The question is, shall we go?"

Now Mrs Hoare was the wife of the head of that well-known college of which Dan and Ralph were
members, and the invitation was therefore the fulfilment of one of Darsie's dreams.

"Of course we'll go!" she cried ardently.  "Sunday tea at a man's college is part of the Cambridge
programme, and we want to see all that we can.  Personally, I consider that they might have
asked us before." She lay back in her seat, and stared dreamily at the wall, puckering her
brow in thought, the while Hannah chuckled in the background.

"I know what you are thinking about!"

"You don't!" cried Darsie, and blushed, a deep guilty blush.

"I do!  Costume for Sunday, and the question of possibly squeezing out three or four shillings
to buy an extra bit of frippery to add to your charms!"

"Boo!" cried Darsie impatiently; then with a sudden change of front: "And if I was, I was perfectly
right!  Newnham girls are not half careful enough about their appearance, and it tells against
the cause. A perfect woman, nobly planned, ought to be as clever as she is--er-- dainty, and
as dainty as she is clever."

"Thank you for the concession!  Very considerate of you, I'm sure.  If you had stuck to `beautiful,'
I should have been hopelessly left out. Even `dainty' is beyond me, I'm afraid; but I'll promise
you to be neat and tidy, and saints can do no more--if they happen to have been born plain
saints, that's to say!"

Hannah stood in front of the mirror, staring back at her flat, square face with an expression
of serenely detached criticism.

"If you are the beauty of this college, I run a close race for the booby prize!  Bit of a handicap
that, if you care about popularity.  This Sunday afternoon now! they'll all be buzzing round
you like so many flies, while I do wallflower in a corner.  Nonsense to say that looks don't
count!  So far as I can see, the difference between your face and mine will probably make the
difference in our lives.  You'll marry a lord of high degree, and I'll school marm and be maiden
aunt."

"Oh, Hannah!"  Darsie was acutely discomfited by such words from Hannah's lips.  True they
were spoken in matter-of-fact tones, and without the suspicion of a whine, but as the first
instance of anything approaching a lament, the occasion was historic.  "Oh, Hannah, dear--
it's only at first!  After the first no one cares a rap what you look like, so long as you're
nice."

"Fal-de-ral!" cried Hannah scornfully.  "Of course they care!  Any one would--should myself,
but you needn't look so hang-dog, my dear.  It's not your fault, and I am quite comfortable,
thank you.  If any man ever wants to marry me, I'll know jolly well that it's for myself, and
that he really loves me through and through.  There isn't any of the glamour business about
this child to make him imagine that he cares, when it's only a passing phase.  And if it's
my lot to live alone, I'll back myself to be as happy as most wives I come across.  It's my
own big, splendid life, and I'm going to make it splendid, or know the reason why!"  Hannah
struck a dramatic gesture, danced a few fancy steps in an elephantine manner, and stumped towards,
the door.  "So be it, then!  We accept with pleasure, and I'll leave you to trim your hat."

Whether or no any such embellishment did take place history sayeth not, but it is certain that
Darsie Garnett made a very charming picture on the following Sunday afternoon, and that her
dainty style of beauty showed to peculiar advantage against the oak panelling of the stately
old room in which the head of --- College and his gracious, fragile- looking wife dispensed
tea to their guests.

The first few minutes after their arrival were rather an ordeal to the two Freshers, who had
never before been present at such a gathering, and felt themselves the cynosure of every eye;
but the kindness of host and hostess soon put them at their ease.

A fair sprinkling of college men were in the room, handing round tea and cakes to the guests.
Dan Vernon greeted Darsie with an illuminating "Halloa!" and his sister with an even shorter
grunt; but it was only when she was comfortably settled down to tea that Darsie caught sight
of Ralph Percival's fair, close-clipped head at the far side of the table. He seemed in no
hurry to speak to her--a fact duly scored against him in Miss Darsie's mind, and this indifference
served to pique her into a more vivacious reception of the attentions of his companions.

As Hannah had foretold, her pretty friend held quite a little court as one man after another
strolled up to join the animated group around her chair.  There were two other girls in that
group, and a married woman with a strikingly sweet face, who had been introduced as the sister
of the hostess.  Mrs Reeves, as she was called, appeared to be on intimate terms with the men,
and her presence, instead of acting as a restraint, only added to their enjoyment.  Darsie
thought that she was a charming creature, was conscious that she herself was being scrutinised
with special attention, and sincerely hoped that the verdict was favourable. It was a curious
person who did not wish to stand well in Alicia Reeves's estimation!

Suddenly Ralph Percival edged in at the back of the group, and stationed himself by Darsie
with an air of possession.

"Well, Miss Darsie Garnett, isn't it about time that you had some talk with me?"

"Quite time!"  Darsie's tone was eloquent, and she looked Ralph in the face with a quiet steadiness,
at which he had the grace to blush.  He had been in no hurry to claim acquaintanceship until
her social success was assured; she was fully aware of the fact, but her pique died a rapid
death as she looked closely into the lad's face.  Ralph at twenty-two was as handsome as in
his boyhood, handsomer, indeed, but there were other changes, which the girl's eyes were quick
to read; for though we may keep silence with our tongue, the hand of Time imprints marks upon
our features which are unfailing guides to our spiritual progress or decline.

For many months past Ralph Vernon had persistently allowed himself to fall short of his best,
slacking in work, overstepping at play, abandoning "straightness" for a gathering mesh of deceit.
Attached to his name was an unsavoury reputation of card-playing for high stakes, of drinking
too much, although not to the extent of actual drunkenness; and the character had alienated
from him the friendship of serious men, and evoked a disapproving aloofness in the manner of
his instructors.  At the moment when he most needed help those who were best fitted to give
it sedulously avoided his company, and in this first moment of meeting Darsie was tempted to
follow their example.

Horrid to look like that!  At his age to own those lines, those reddened eyes, that dulled
white skin!  Up went the little head, the slender neck reared itself proudly, the red lips
curled over small white teeth. Darsie intended to wither Ralph by the sight of such obvious
distaste, but with the easy vanity of his nature he attributed her airs to girlish pique at
his own neglect, and was correspondingly elated thereat.

The little schoolgirl who had been his sister's friend had grown into a "stunning girl," with
whom the men were evidently greatly impressed. Ralph decided that the hour had come to claim
her as an old friend and take her under his wing.  He sat himself down by her side and persistently
monopolised her attention.

"College life evidently suits you, Darsie.  You are looking rippingly well!"

"Am I?  Sorry to be unable to return the compliment!"

"Oh!"  Ralph moved impatiently.  "Don't you begin that tune!  It is dinned into my ears from
morning till night.  A fellow may swot himself into a rag, and not a word will be said, but
if he oversteps an inch for his own amusement there's the dickens to pay.  I said from the
start that I intended to have a good rag.  College is one of the best times in a man's life,
and he's a fool if he doesn't make the most of his chance."

"It is also--incidentally--supposed to be a time for mental improvement," returned Darsie in
sententious tones, which brought upon her an instant rebuke.

"Oh, for pity's sake don't come the Newnham swag over me!  Can't stand those girls as a rule.
Avoid 'em like poison.  Take my advice as an old friend and avoid that style as you would the
plague.  You're too jolly pretty to come the strong-minded female.  Far better stick to your
old style.  Men like it a heap better."

"It is a matter of perfect indifference to me what men like!" declared Darsie, not, it is to
be feared, with absolute veracity.  "I am proud to be a Newnhamite, and if the girls do have
a few mannerisms, they count for precious little beside their virtues.  They are up to work,
and they do work with might and main, though there can be no place in the world where there
is no fun.  We are always having some prank or other-- politicals, and cocoa-parties and hockey
matches, and dances--"

"What's the fun of dances with no men to dance with?  Wait till May term, and see what a real
ball is like.  We'll have some river picnics, too, and breakfasts at the Orchard.  There's
lots to be done in summer, but just now there's nothing on but teas.  You must come to tea
in my rooms.  I've got a slap-up study."  He turned towards Mrs Reeves and addressed her with
confident familiarity.  "Mrs Reeves will play chaperon, and I'll promise you the best cakes
that Cambridge can produce."

"Oh, yes, I'll play chaperon."  To Darsie's surprise the sweet-faced woman smiled back into
Ralph's face with friendly eyes, not appearing even to notice the over-confidence of his manner.
"Mr Percival gives charming parties, and I can answer for it that his boast as to the cakes
is justified.  I can never fathom where he gets them."

She turned to Darsie with a little gesture of confidence, and slightly lowered her voice. 
"I am known as `the Professional Chaperon.'  I hope you will engage my services if you are
in need of such a personage, but perhaps we ought to know one another a little better first.
I should like so much to know you!  Will you come to see me one afternoon next week when you
are free, and feel inclined for a chat?  I won't ask any one else, so that we can have a real
cosy time."

Surprised and gratified, and more than a little flattered, Darsie mentioned her free hours,
and received in return Mrs Reeves's card bearing an address in Grange Road, then once more
Ralph engrossed her attention.

"I say!  You might ask Ida up for a night or two, and bring her along. They'll let you have
a friend now and then, and she'd like it all right. Awfully decent in writing to me, Ida is,
and fights my battles at home. Sensible girl!  Understand it's no good to jaw.  I'd like to
have Ida up for a bit."

"So would I.  I'll ask her with pleasure."  One of Ralph's best points had been his affection
for his sisters, and the reminder thereof softened Darsie's heart.  She smiled at him with
recovered friendliness. "I'll ask Ida, and you must ask Dan and Hannah Vernon, and make a nice
family party.  Do you see much of Dan?  I don't expect he makes a rag of himself over amusement!"

Ralph shrugged carelessly.  "I've no use for Vernon!  Good head for routine work, but as a
pal, dull as you make 'em!  I'll ask him once as you make a point of it, but I don't fancy
you'll want him twice.  As for the sister--but perhaps I'd better not make any remarks?"

"Much better!"  Darsie said frostily.  "Your manners have not improved, Ralph.  I think, if
you please, that I would rather not talk to you any more for the present.  Would you tell Dan
Vernon that I want him to take your place?"

It was the first, the very first time in her life that Darsie had essayed the part of queening
it over a member of the opposite sex, and the success of the venture was startling even to
herself.  Ralph flushed, flinched, rose without a word, and stalked across the room to summon
Dan as required; and Dan came meekly forward, seated himself in the discarded chair, and faced
her with an air of solemn expectation. His rugged face looked plain and roughly hewn in contrast
with Ralph's classical features, but the dark eyes were eloquent as of yore, and the sight
of the tilted chin brought back a score of old-time memories. Darsie looked at him with satisfaction,
but with a disconcerting blankness of mind as to what to say first.  From the other side of
the room Ralph was looking on with cynical eyes; it was imperative that the silence should
be broken at once.

"Dan, please say something!  I wanted Ralph to go, so I asked for you. Do please find something
to say."

Dan smiled broadly.  Each time that she saw him smile Darsie wondered afresh how she could
ever have thought him plain.  His dark eyes glowed upon her with the look she liked best to see.

"What am I to say?  It's good to see you here, Darsie.  You are looking very--well!  Everything
going all right?  Sure there's nothing I can do?"

"No."  Darsie beamed happily.  At that moment there seemed nothing left to wish.  Dan's friendliness
gave the finishing touch to her content, and the world was couleur de rose.  "I am loving it
all more than I expected.  The work's glorious, and the play's glorious, and I'm just absorbed
in both.  It's splendid, coming here to-day to see this lovely old house and meet you again.
I thought you had forgotten all about me."

But Dan had drawn back into his shell, and refused to be cajoled.  He glowered at the opposite
wall for some minutes, then asked abruptly--

"Why did you send off Percival?"

"Oh--!"  Darsie hesitated, and then answered with discretion: "I had talked to him as much
as I cared about for the moment, and I shall see him soon again.  He is going to get up a tea-party
for me, with that sweet Mrs Reeves as chaperon.  I told him to ask you and Hannah."

"You should not have done that!"  Dan spoke with sharp displeasure.  "I don't care to accept
Percival's hospitality for myself, and certainly not for my sister.  I shall tell Hannah to
refuse."

Darsie glanced across to where Hannah sat, a typical plain Hannah at that moment, with feet
planted well apart, and on her face the expression of dour determination which she adopted
in moments of boredom; from her to Ralph Percival, standing in graceful pose, his fine, almost
feminine, profile outlined clearly against the panelled wall, and, glancing, laughed softly
to herself.  It seemed so ridiculous to think of this girl needing protection from this man.

"I fancy Hannah is quite capable of looking after herself."

"I'm sure of it.  She's a new-comer, however, and she doesn't get into Percival's set if I
can help it."

"Dan!  It can't be so bad if Mrs Reeves is willing to go.  She accepted in a minute.  I heard
her myself."

"She goes everywhere, to the wildest fellows' rooms.  She has her own ideas, no doubt, but
I don't profess to understand them."  He hesitated, puckering his brows, and looking at her
with dark, questioning eyes.  "I have no authority over you, Darsie, but I wish--"

"Ralph saved my life," interrupted Darsie simply.

Dan looked at her sharply, stared with scrutinising attention at her face, but spoke no further
word of protest.  He evidently realised, as Darsie did herself, that it would be a mean act
to reject the friendship of a man who had wrought so great a service.

Half an hour later the two girls slowly wended their way past the tower gateway of Trinity,
past Caius, with its twinkling lights, stately King's, and modest Catherine's, to the homelike
shelter of their own dear Newnham.

"Well!" cried Hannah, breaking a long silence, "you had a big success and I had--not!  But
you're not a bit happier than I, that I can see. Men are poor, blind bats.  I prefer my own
sex; they are much more discriminating, and when they like you--they like you, and there's
no more shilly-shally.  Those men never know their own minds!"

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

MRS. REEVES MAKES A PROPOSAL.

Four days later Darsie went by appointment to her tete-a-tete tea with the professional chaperon
with a pleasurable expectation which was largely streaked with curiosity.

If physiognomy counted for anything, Mrs Reeves must surely be a most sweet and noble character.
Her grey eyes looked into yours with a straight, transparent gaze, her lips closed one upon
another firmly enough to debar all trace of weakness, yet not so firmly as to hint at undue
severity, her hair waved back from a broad white brow.  It was, as Dan had said, difficult
to understand how such a woman could be the willing companion of men whom even fellow-students
were anxious to shun. Darsie wondered if the afternoon's conversation would throw any light
on this knotty point.

She was shown, not into the drawing-room but into a cosy little den on the second floor, a
sort of glorious edition of a college study, where Mrs Reeves sat reading by the fire, clad
in a loose velvet gown of a curious reddish-brown, like the autumn tint of a leaf, which matched
the high lights of her chestnut hair.  Darsie watched her with fascinated attention as she
presided over the tea-table, with lithe, graceful movements which made a poem out of the every-day
proceeding, and Mrs Reeves studied her in return, as she chatted lightly about a dozen casual
subjects.  Then the tea-things were carried away, and with the drawing nearer to the fire conversation
took a more intimate turn.

"I hope your friend did not think me inhospitable for not including her in my invitation to-day,
but when I want to get to know a girl I prefer to have her entirely to myself.  Perhaps she
will come another day. Vernon's sister ought to be worth knowing."

"You know Dan?"  Darsie's smile was somewhat anxious, for Dan's own manner with respect to
her hostess was still a disturbing element.  "You know him well?"

"No," Mrs Reeves smiled; "not well.  But I like him well by repute! Vernon has no need of my
services.  He is strong: enough to stand by himself."

"You mean tea-parties?" queried Darsie vaguely, whereat Mrs Reeves subsided into a ripple of
laughter.

"No, I do not mean tea-parties--something very much wider.  I don't fancy, however, that Vernon
is sociably disposed, and the authorities here are not inclined to encourage meetings between
the men and girl students.  The head of his college is my brother-in-law, and one of your Dons
is a very old friend, so I hear the question discussed from both sides, and then--like a wise
woman--I gang my own gait!  So long as men are men, and girls are girls, they are bound to
attract each other; it's natural and right, and when they are bound to meet in any case, it
is my little hobby to help them to do so under the best conditions.  I flatter myself I am
quite an expert in the art of being just chaperon enough, and not too chaperon, and I never
refuse to act if I can possibly contrive to do so."

"No!  Dan said--" began Darsie involuntarily, and then stopped short with a furious blush.
Mrs Reeves, however, did not share her discomfiture; she laughed, and said shrewdly--

"Oh, I have observed his disapproving eye.  I can guess what he said. Many people feel the
same, who judge only from the surface, and don't take the trouble to realise my motives.  One
doesn't explain such things to the world in general, but I want you to understand.  If one
man less admirable than another; if his friends and his entertainments are inclined to become
rowdy and discreditable, does he need help less, or more?  Vernon and other men of his kind
consider that they do their duty by leaving such a man severely alone.  I find mine in being
with him-- just--as much--as ever I can!"  She emphasised the words by a series of taps with
the poker on the top of an obstinate coal, given in the most delightfully school-girlish manner.
"I chaperon his parties; I talk to him and his friends; I make myself so agreeable that they
love to have me, and want to have me again.  I try with every power I possess to encourage
all that is good, and kind, and honest, and cheering in themselves and their conversation,
and deftly, delicately, invisibly, as it were, to fight against everything that is mean and
unworthy.  It's difficult, Darsie!--I may call you Darsie, mayn't I? it's such a beguiling
little name!--one of the most difficult feats a woman could set herself to accomplish, and
though I've had a fair measure of success, it's only a measure.  It's such a great big work.
Think of all that it means, that it may mean to England, if we can keep these men from drifting,
and give them a pull-up in time!  I am constantly looking, looking out for fellow-workers.
That's why I invited you here to-day--to ask you to be on my side!"

"I!"  Darsie's gasp of amazement sounded throughout the room.  "I!  Oh, you can't mean it!
What could I do?  I can do nothing--I'm only a girl!"

"Only a girl!  But, dear child, that's your finest qualification!  You can do more than I can
ever accomplish, just because you are a girl, and will be admitted to an intimacy which is
impossible for me. Besides, Darsie, you are a particularly pretty and attractive girl into
the bargain; you know that, don't you?  You ought to know it, and be very, very thankful for
a great weapon given into your hands.  If you will join the ranks with me, and act as my curate,
you will immensely increase my power for good."

"But I can't!  I can't!  I'd love to if I could, but you don't know how impossible it is. 
I couldn't preach to save my life."

"I'm thankful to hear it.  I don't want you to preach.  You'd soon lose your influence if you
did.  It's a case of being, Darsie, rather than doing; being your truest, sweetest, highest
self when you are with these men, so that they may feel your influence through all the fun
and banter.  Lots of fun, please; you can't have too much of that; a dull girl is soon left
to herself.  People in general don't half realise the influence of just right thinking--the
atmosphere which surrounds a person who is mentally fighting for good.  The sunbeams fall on
the dark earth and soak up the poisoned waters, and so may our thoughts--our prayers," She
was silent for a few moments, her hand resting lightly on Darsie's knees.  "There is a girl
in your house--Margaret France--I expect you know her!  She has been one of my best helpers
these last years.  Wherever Margaret is there is fun and laughter; she is just brimful of it,
but--can you imagine any one going to Margaret with an unworthy thought, an unworthy cause?
I want you to follow in her steps!"

She paused again for a long minute, then said slowly and emphatically--

"Ralph Percival needs help, Darsie!  He has not fallen very low as yet, but he is drifting.
He is in a bad set, and, like too many of our richer men, he lacks purpose.  They come up here
because their fathers have been before them, and it is the correct thing to do.  There is no
real reason why they should work, or take a high place, but there seems to themselves every
reason why they should have a good time.  Parents sometimes seem to hold more or less the same
opinion; at others they seem distressed, but powerless.  College authorities are regarded as
natural enemies; religious influences for the time beat on closed doors; now, Darsie, here
comes the chance for `only a girl!'  A man like Ralph Percival, at this stage of his life,
will be more influenced by a girl like you than by any power on earth.  It's a law of Nature
and of God, and if every girl realised it, it would be a blessed thing for the race. I once
heard a preacher say that so long as one dealt with general principles, and talked broadly
of the human race, there was very little done.  We have to fine it down to my next door neighbour
before we really set to work.  Fine down what I have said to Ralph Percival, Darsie, and help
me with him!  He's drifting.  He needs you.  Help me to pull him back!"

Darsie nodded dumbly.  Mrs Reeves thought the expression on her downcast face touchingly sweet
and earnest, but even she missed the clue to the girl's inmost thought.

Years ago she herself had been drifting, drifting towards death, and Ralph had stepped forward
to save her; now, in an allegorical sense, the positions were reversed, and she was summoned
to the rescue.  There was no refusing a duty so obvious.  Heavy and onerous as the responsibility
might be, it had been placed in her hands.  Darsie braced herself to the burden.

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

CHRISTMAS DAY.

It was Christmas Day; fifteen eventful months had passed by since Darsie Garnett and Hannah
Vernon had made their appearance in Clough in the character of modest and diffident Freshers.
Now, advanced to the dignity of second-year girls, they patronised new-comers with the best,
and talked, thought, and behaved as though, deprived of their valuable support, the historical
centre of Cambridge must swiftly crumble to the dust.

The little air of assurance and self-esteem which seems inseparable from a feminine student
had laid its hand on Darsie's beauty, robbing it of the old shy grace, and on each fresh return
to the old home Clemence and Lavender eloquently described themselves as "squelched flat" by
the dignified young woman who sailed about with her head in the air, and delivered an ultimatum
on every subject as it arose, with an air of "My opinion is final.  Let no dog bark!"

These mannerisms, however, were only, after all, a veneer; and when two or three days of merry,
rollicking family life had passed by, the old Darsie made her appearance once more, forgot
to be learned and superior, forbore to refer to college and college ways in every second or
third sentence, and showed a reviving interest in family affairs.

Clemence was fatter than ever, a subject of intense mortification to herself, though at each
fresh meeting she confided in whispered asides that she had "lost five pounds--ten pounds,"
as the case might be.  No one believed in these diminutions, but if one happened to be amiably
disposed, one murmured vaguely, and affected conviction; and if one were not, one openly jeered
and scoffed!  Lavender was sentimental and wrote poetry in which "pale roses died, in the garden
wide, and the wind blew drear, o'er the stricken mere."  She had advanced to the dignity of
long skirts, and dressed her hair--badly!--in the latest eccentricity of fashion.

Vie Vernon, on the contrary, had developed into a most elegant person, quite an accomplished
woman of the world, darkly suspected of "going to be engaged" to a young lawyer with a dark
moustache, who had lately developed a suspicious fondness for her father's company.

It really gave one quite a shock to realise how grown-up the old companions had become even
the brothers Harry and Russell were transformed into tall striplings who bought newspapers
on their own account, and preferred, actually preferred, to be clean rather than dirty!  It
was a positive relief to listen to Tim's loud voice, look at his grimy paws, and reflect that
one member of the family was still in the enjoyment of youth.

As usual, the postman's arrival was the first excitement of Christmas morning.  He brought
with him an armful of letters and parcels, and Darsie was quick to spy Ralph Percival's handwriting
upon one of the smallest and most attractive-looking of the packets.

The colour came into her cheeks as she looked, but after holding the parcel uncertainly for
a moment, she laid it down again, and proceeded to open other letters and boxes, leaving this
particular one to the last.  An onlooker would have been puzzled to decide whether it was more
dread or expectation which prompted this decision; and perhaps Darsie herself could hardly
have answered the question.  The table was soon spread with envelopes and wrappings of paper
which had enclosed souvenirs from college friends, and the more costly offerings from Mrs Percival
and her girls, inscribed with the orthodox words of greeting. Darsie ranged them in order,
and then, still hesitating, turned to the last packet of all.

Inside was a note folded so as to act as additional wrapper for a small white box.  Ralph's
writing, large and well-formed like himself, filled the half-sheet.

"Dear Darsie,--I hope you will accept the enclosed trifle which has been made for you, from
my own design.  You will understand its meaning!  I am more than ever in need of pulling up!
Don't fail a fellow, Darsie!

"Yours,--

"Ralph B.  Percival."

Inside the box lay a small but beautifully modelled anchor brooch, with a fine golden rope
twined round the stock.  Darsie looked at it with the same mingling of joy and pain which seemed
inseparable from each stage of her friendship with this attractive but irresponsible young man.

It was just like Ralph to have thought of this pretty and graceful way of expressing his sentiments,
and it was not in girl nature to resist a glow of gratified vanity; but as she turned the golden
anchor in her hands and realised the significance of the symbol, an old impatience stirred
in Darsie's heart.  A man who trusted to another for anchorage in life, and who was ever in
danger of breaking loose and drifting on to the rocks, was not the strong knight of a young
girl's dreams.  There were moments when the protecting tenderness which had prompted the last
year's efforts gave place to sudden intolerance and resentment.

Inspired by Mrs Reeves's words in her first term at college, Darsie had set gallantly to the
task of influencing Ralph Percival for good, and preventing his further deterioration.  At
first it had appeared a forlorn hope; and she would have despaired many a time if it had not
been for the encouragement which she received from Mrs Reeves and her "curate," Margaret France.
Then gradually and surely her influence had begun to make itself felt.  It could not truthfully
be said that she had so inspired Ralph that he had turned over a new leaf, and abandoned bad
practices from a desire for the right itself.  If the truth must be told, desire for his pretty
mentor's approbation and praise had been a far stronger factor in the improvement which seemed
to have been effected.

Ralph was emotional, and as his interest in Darsie deepened into the sentimental attachment
which seemed a natural development of their intimacy, he grew increasingly anxious to stand
well in her estimation. During the May term there had been teas in the college gardens, breakfast
parties at the Orchard, picnics on the river, which had afforded opportunities of tete-a-tete
conversations when, amidst the flowers and the sunshine, it had been quite an agreeable sensation
to lament over one's weaknesses and shortcomings, and to receive in return the wisest of counsels
from Darsie's pretty lips.

"To please you, Darsie!--I'm hanged if I care what other people think, but if you ask me--"
The promises gained were all couched in this personal vein.  "If you chuck me, Darsie, I shan't
worry any more." This was the threat held out for the future.  Unsatisfactory, if you will,
yet the fact remained that for the first part of the last term Ralph had appeared to show greater
interest in work than he had before manifested, and had been involved in a minimum of scrapes.

There were moments when, remembering these facts, Darsie felt proudly that she had not lived
in vain; moments when Ralph's dependence on herself and graceful acknowledgments of her help
seemed the chief interest in life.  But there were also other moments when the bond between
them weighed heavy as a chain.  In less than two years the training days would be over, Ralph
would be a man, and she herself a woman on the threshold of life.  Would she be expected to
play the part of permanent anchor, and, if so, could she, should she undertake the task?

For the last few weeks of the term Darsie had been so absorbed in her own surroundings that
she had had no time or thought to bestow on outside interests, and Mrs Reeves being abroad,
no college news came to her ears from that source.

Now since the beginning of the holidays Ralph's name had hardly been mentioned, since family
interests were predominant, and Darsie had learned from experience that the subject of "Percival"
was calculated to send Dan Vernon into his most taciturn mood.

On this Christmas morning, however, Darsie was in a mood of somewhat reckless gaiety; let the
future take care of itself.  For to-day, at least, she was young and happy and free; the Vernon
family was coming over in bulk to spend the evening, when the presence of one of Dan's chums
would supply an agreeable element of novelty to the occasion.  Not one single gloomy thought
must be allowed to cloud the sunshine of this Christmas Day!

Dinner was served at seven o'clock, and was truly a festive occasion. The dining-room table
being unequal to the task of providing accommodation for sixteen people, the schoolroom table
had to be used as a supplement.  It was a good inch higher than the other, and supplied with
a preponderance of legs, but these small drawbacks could not weigh against the magnificent
effect of the combined length, covered, as it was, with fruit, flowers, and a plethora of bright
red bonbons and crackers.  The girls wore their prettiest evening frocks; the turkey, the goose,
the plum-pudding, and the mince-pies were all paragons of their kind, while dessert was enlivened
by the discovery of small surprise presents cunningly hidden away within hollowed oranges,
apples, and nuts.  Silver thimbles, pocket-calendars, stamp-cases, sleeve-links, and miniature
brooches, made their appearance with such extraordinary unexpectedness that Darsie finally
declared she was afraid to venture to eat even a grape, lest she might swallow a diamond alive!

When the hilarious meal had come to an end, the company adjourned into a drawing-room illumined
by firelight only, but such firelight!  For over a week those logs had been stacked by the
kitchen grate so that they might become "as dry as tinder."

Placed in the big grate, they sent up a leaping, crackling flame which was in itself an embodiment
of cheer, and when the sixteen chairs were filled and ranged in a circle round the blaze, there
was a Christmas picture complete, and as goodly and cheery a picture as one need wish to see.
A basket of fir-cones stood at either side of the grate, and the order of proceedings was that
each guest in turn should drop a cone into the heart of the fire, and relate an amusing story
or coincidence the while it burned.  Results proved that the amount of time so consumed varied
so strangely that suggestions of foul play were made by more than one raconteur.

"It's not fair!  Some one has got at these cones!  Some of them have been soaked to make them
damp!--"

Be that as it may, no one could possibly have foretold who would happen to hit on this particular
cone, so that the charge of injustice fell swiftly to the ground.

Mrs Garnett opened the ball with a coincidence taken from her own life, the cone burning bright
and blue the while.

"When I was a girl of twenty, living at home with my father and mother, I had a curiously distinct
dream one night about a certain Mr Dalrymple.  We knew no one of that name, but in my dream
he appeared to be a lifelong friend.  He was a clergyman, about sixty years of age--not handsome,
but with a kind, clever face.  He had grey hair, and heavy black eyebrows almost meeting over
his nose.  I was particularly interested in his appearance, because--this is the exciting part!--in
my dream I was engaged to him, and we were going to be married the following month...  Next
morning, when I awoke, the impression left was unusually distinct, and at breakfast I made
them all laugh over my matrimonial plans.  My sisters called me `Mrs Dalrymple' for several
days, and then the joke faded away, and was replaced by something newer and more exciting.
Two years passed by, and then, in the summer holidays, I went to Scotland to pay a visit. 
A slight accident on the line delayed me at a small station for a couple of hours, and I strolled
through the village to pass the time by seeing what could be seen.  It was a dull little place,
and the principal street was empty of every one but a few children until, when I reached the
end, a man in a black coat came suddenly out of a house and walked towards me.  He was tall
and elderly and thin, his hair was grey, his eyebrows were dark and met in a peak over his
nose.  My heart gave a great big jump, for it was the face of the man I had seen in my dream--the
man who was to have been my husband!  You can imagine my surprise!  It was many, many months
since I had given a thought to the silly old dream, but at the first glance at that face the
memory of it came back as clear and distinct as on the morning after it had happened.  I walked
towards him quite dazed with surprise, and then another extraordinary thing happened!  He was
evidently short-sighted, and could not distinguish figures at a distance, but presently, as
we drew nearer together, he in his turn started violently, stared in my face as if he could
hardly believe his eyes, and then rushed forward and seized me by the hand.  `I am glad to
see you--I am glad!  This is a pleasure!  When did you come?' Poor old man!  My blank face
showed him his mistake, and he dropped my hand and began to mumble out apologies.  `I've made
a mistake.  I thought you were--I thought you were--' He frowned, evidently searched in vain
for a clue, and added feebly, `I thought I knew you.  Your face is so familiar!'  It was all
over in a minute.  He took off his hat, and hurried on overcome with embarrassment, and I turned
mechanically in the direction of the church.  It was closed, but by the gate stood a board
bearing the hours of services, and beneath them the name of the minister of the parish.  I
read it with a thrill.  The name was `The Rev.  John Dalrymple'!"

Mrs Garnett lay back in her chair with the contented air of a raconteuse who has deftly led
up to a denouement, and her audience gasped in mingled surprise and curiosity.

"How thrilling!  How weird!"

"What an extraordinary thing!  Go on!  Go on!  And what happened next?"

Mrs Garnett chuckled contentedly.

"I met your father, married him, and lived happily ever after!  As for Mr Dalrymple, I never
met him again nor heard his name mentioned.  The sequel is not at all exciting, but it was
certainly an extraordinary coincidence, and caused me much agitation at the time.  I have timed
myself very well--my cone has just burned out.  Who's turn comes next?"

There followed a somewhat lengthened pause while every one nudged a next-door neighbour, and
disdained responsibility on his own account. Then Mr Vernon stepped into the breach.

"I heard a curious thing the other day.  A friend of mine was taken suddenly ill on a hillside
in Switzerland, was carried into a chalet and most kindly tended by the good woman.  When,
at the end of several hours, he was well enough to leave, he wished to make her a present of
money.  She refused to take it, but said that she had a daughter in service in England, and
that it would be a real pleasure to her, if, upon his return, my friend would write to the
girl telling her of his visit to the old home.  He asked for the address, and was told, `Mary
Smith, care of Mr Spencer, The Towers, Chestone.'  He read it, looked the old woman in the
face and said, `I am Mr Spencer!  I live at The Towers, Chestone; and my children's nurse is
called Mary Smith!' There!  I can vouch for the absolute truth of that coincidence, and I think
you will find it hard to beat."

"And what did he say to the nurse?" asked literal Clemence, to the delight of her brothers
and sisters, whose imaginary dialogues between master and maid filled the next few minutes
with amusement.

Dan's friend hailed from Oxford, and gave a highly coloured account of a practical joke in
several stages, which he had played on an irritating acquaintance.  The elder members of the
party listened with awe, if without approval, but Tim showed repeated signs of restlessness,
and in a final outburst corrected the narrator on an all-important point.

"That's the way they had it in Britain's Boys!" he declared, whereupon the Oxford man hid his
head under an antimacassar, and exclaimed tragically that all was discovered!  "Now it's Darsie's
turn!  Tell us a story, Darsie--an adventure, your own adventure when you went out in that
punt, and the mill began working--"

"Why should I tell what you know by heart already?  You'd only be bored."

"Oh, but you never tell a story twice over in the same way," persisted Clemence with doubtful
flattery.  "And Mr Leslie has never heard it. I'm sure he'd be interested.  It really was an
adventure.  So romantic, too.  Ralph Percival is so good-looking!"

"I fail to see what his looks have to do with it," said Darsie in her most Newnham manner.
"Strong arms were more to the purpose, and those he certainly does possess."

"Strong arms--stout heart!" murmured Lavender in sentimental aside. "Well, then, tell about
the treasure-hunt in the Percivals' garden--and how you--you know!  Go on--that's another real
adventure."

"All Miss Darsie's adventures seem to have been in connection with the Percival family!" remarked
the Oxford man at this point.

Darsie flushed with annoyance, and retired determinedly into her shell. She was seated almost
in the centre of the circle, between her father and John Vernon, and the leaping light of the
fire showed up her face and figure in varying shades of colour.  Now she was a rose-maiden,
dress, hair, and face glowing in a warm pink hue; anon, the rose changed into a faint metallic
blue, which gave a ghostlike effect to the slim form; again, she was all white--a dazzling,
unbroken white, in which the little oval face assumed an air of childlike fragility and pathos.
As she sat with her hands folded on her knee, and her head resting against the dark cushions
of her chair, more than one of the company watched her with admiration: but Darsie was too
much occupied with her own thoughts to be conscious of their scrutiny.

As each story-teller began his narrative, she cast a momentary glance in his direction, and
then turned back to fire-gazing once more.  Once or twice she cast a curious glance towards
the far corner where Dan Vernon was seated, but he had drawn his chair so far back that nothing
could be distinguished but the white blur of shirt-front.  Darsie wondered if Dan were uninterested,
bored, asleep--yet as her eyes questioned the darkness she had the strangest impression of
meeting other eyes--dark, intent eyes, which stared, and stared--

Vie Vernon was telling "a most interesting coincidence," her opening sentence--"It was told
to me by a friend--a lawyer,"--causing surreptitious smiles and nudges among her younger hearers.
"There was a girl in his office--a typewriting girl.  All the money had been lost--"

"Whose money?  The lawyer's or the office's?"

"Neither!  Don't be silly.  The girl's father's, of course."

"You never told us that she had a father!"

"Russell, if you interrupt every minute, I won't play.  Of course he'd lost it, or the girl
wouldn't have been a typist.  Any one would know that!  Ed--the lawyer did sea-sort of business--what
do you call it?-- marine things--and the girl typed them.  Years before a brother had disappeared--"

"The lawyer's brother?"

"No!  I'm sorry I began.  You are so disagreeable, The girl's uncle, of course, and they often
wanted to find him, because he was rich, and might have helped them now they were poor.  One
day, when she was typing out one of the depositions--"

"Ha!"  The unusual word evoked unanimous comment.  "`De-pos-itions--if you please'!  How legal
we are becoming, to be sure!"

Vie flushed, and hurried on breathlessly--

"She came across the name of John H.  Rose, and she wondered if the H. meant Hesselwhaite,
for that was her uncle's second name, and she looked it up in the big document, and it was
him, and he was on the west coast of South America, and they wrote to him, and he left them
a lot of money, and they lived happy ever after."

Polite murmurs of astonishment from the elders, unconcealed sniggerings from the juniors, greeted
the conclusion of this thrilling tale, and then once more Darsie was called upon for her contribution,
and this time consented without demur.

"Very well!  I've thought of a story.  It's about a managing clerk who was sent to Madrid on
business for his firm.  I didn't know him myself, so don't ask questions!  While he was in
Madrid he went to the opera one night, and sat in a box.  Just opposite was another box, in
which sat a beauteous Spanish maid.  He looked at her, and she looked at him.  They kept looking
and looking.  At last he thought that she smiled, and waved her fan as if beckoning him to
come and speak to her.  So in the first interval the eager youth made his way along the richly
carpeted corridors; but just as he reached the door of the box it opened, and a man came out
and put a letter into his hand.  It was written in Spanish, which the youth did not understand;
but, being filled with a frenzy of curiosity to know what the fair one had to say, he decided
to run to his hotel, and get the manager to translate it without delay.  Well, he went; but
as soon as the manager had read the note he started violently, and said in a manner of the
utmost concern: `I exceedingly regret, sir, to appear inhospitable or inconsiderate, but I
find it my painful duty to ask you to leave my hotel within an hour.'  The clerk protested,
questioned, raged, and stormed, but all in vain.  The manager refused even to refer to the
letter; he simply insisted that he could entertain him no longer in the hotel, and added darkly:
`It would be well for the Senor to take the first train out of Spain.'

"Alarmed by this mysterious warning, the unhappy youth accordingly shook off the dust from
his feet and returned to London, where he confided his woes to his beloved and generous employer.
The employer was a Spanish merchant and understood the language, so he naturally offered to
solve the mystery.  No sooner, however, had his eye scanned the brief lines, than a cloud shadowed
his expressive countenance, and he addressed himself to the youth more in sorrow than in anger.
`It grieves me to the heart, Mr--er--Bumpas,' he said, `to sever our connection after your
faithful service to the firm; but, after the perusal of this note, I have unfortunately no
choice.  If you will apply to the cashier he will hand you a cheque equal to six months' salary;
but I must ask you to understand that when you leave my office this morning it is for the last
time!'"

A rustle of excitement from the audience, a momentary glimpse of Dan's face in the flickering
light, testified to the interest of this extraordinary history.

Darsie bent forward to encourage her fir-cone with a pat from the poker, and continued dramatically--

"Bewildered, broken-hearted, almost demented, the unfortunate youth betook him to an uncle
in America (all uncles seem to live in America), who received him with consideration, listened
to his sad tale, and bade him be of good cheer.  `By a strange coincidence' (coincidence again!)
said the worthy man, `there sups with me to-night a learned professor of languages, resident
at our local college.  He, without doubt, will make plain the mysterious contents of the fatal
note!'  Punctual to his hour the professor arrived, and the harassed youth hailed with joy
the end of his long suspense.  Whatever might be the purport of the words written in that fatal
paper, the knowledge thereof could not be worse than the fate which had dogged his footsteps
ever since that tragic night when he had first cast eyes on the baleful beauty of the Spanish
maid.  Yet might it not be that once again the sight of these words would send him wandering
homeless o'er the world--that the stream of his uncle's benevolence might be suddenly damned
by a force mysterious as inexorable?

"Trembling with emotion, the young man thrust his hand into his pocket to bring forth this
mystic note--"

Darsie paused dramatically.

"And--and--and then--?"

"He discovered that it was not there!  In the course of his long wanderings it had unfortunately
been mislaid."

The clamour of indignation which followed this denouement can be better imagined than described
but the example having been set, wonderful how many stories of the same baffling character
were revived by the different members of the company during the remainder of the firelight
stance.  So wild and exaggerated did the narratives become, indeed, that the meeting broke
up in confusion, and took refuge in those admittedly uproarious Christmas games which survived
from the happy nursery days, when "to make as much noise as we like" seemed the climax of enjoyment.

And so ended Christmas Day for the joint ranks of the Vernons and Garnetts.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE MELODRAMA.

On Boxing Day, Lavender excused herself from joining a rinking party, and lay curled up on
a sofa reading a Christmas number.

The following morning she stayed in bed to breakfast, and complained of a swollen face.  On
the third day, the sight of the huge cheeks and doubled chin sent the family flying for the
doctor, and the tragic verdict of "mumps" was whispered from mouth to mouth.

Mumps in the Christmas holidays!  Isolation for the victim for days, even weeks; the risk of
infection for others; the terrible, unthinkable possibility of "missing a term"!  Mrs Vernon
came nobly to the rescue, and invited Darsie to spend the remainder of the holidays under her
roof, since, with a Tripos in prospect, every precaution must be taken against infection. 
For the rest, Lavender's own little eyrie was situated at the end of a long top passage, and
might have been originally designed for a sanatorium and there, in solitary state, the poor
mumpy poetess bewailed her fate, and besought the compassion of her companions.  Letters were
not forbidden, and she therefore found a sad satisfaction in pouring out her woes on paper,
as a result of which occupation the following poetical effusion presently found its way to
the schoolroom party--

  "All gay and fair the scene appeared:
  I was a gladsome maid;
  When the dire hand of circumstance
  Upon my life was laid.
  Upon the eve of festal day
  The first dread symptoms fell;
  And those who should have sympathised,
  Whose tender words I would have prized,
  Did sneer, and jeer, and with loud cries,
  Ascribe the reason to mince-pies!

  "What time I woke the third day morn,
  By mirror was the sad truth borne;
  Not alone exile, grief, and pain
  Must fill my cup--but also shame!
  Gone is my youthful glee and grace,
  I have an elephantine face;
  My cheeks are gross, which were so thin;
  I have a loathsome pendant chin.
  All who behold me smile aside,
  And their derision barely hide.
  Oh, cruel fate! instead of tears,
  In my sad plight I get but jeers.

  "Friends, comrades, readers of this ditty,
  If heart ye have, on me have pity.
  Go not unthinking on your way,
  Content to sing, content to play,
  While I and mumps sit here alone
  In an unending, drear `At home.'
  Put wits to work, think out some way
  To cheer the captive's lonely day,
  Forget yourself, and think of me,
  And doubly blessed you shall be.
  For since the days of earliest youth
  You have been brought up on this truth--
  To help the ailing by your side
  Is the true work of Christmas-tide!"

To disregard so touching an appeal being plainly an impossibility, an impromptu committee meeting
was held in the Vernons' study, when the idea of an open-air melodrama was proposed, and carried
with acclamation.  A melodrama acted in the back garden, underneath Lavender's window, opened
out prospects of amusement for the actors as well as the audience, and a rainy afternoon was
passed in the merriest fashion discussing the plot, characters, and costume.

Darsie sat on the hearthrug, and prodded the fire vigorously to mark each point scored.  Vie
wrote from dictation at the centre table.  Dan sat chuckling in his own particular chair, and
allowed himself to be cast as hero with lamblike calm, and plain Hannah affected dire displeasure
at being passed over for the part of beauteous maid.  It was like the dear old days when they
had all been young--really young--in pinafores and pigtails, with no dread of coming Tripos,
no agitation about youthful lawyers to chase away sleep at night!  Looking back through the
years, that hour stood out in remembrance as one most happily typical of the dear home life.

The programme was delicious.  Vie discovered a great sheet of white paper, left over from the
parcel wrappings of the week before; Dan printed the words in his most dashing fashion; John
nailed it on the lid of a packing-chest, and the whole party escorted it round the terrace
to the Garnett dwelling, and waited in the street beneath until it was conveyed upstairs, and
Lavender, discreetly swathed in a shawl, appeared at her lighted window and waved a towel in
triumph.

This was the programme--

  On Wednesday Afternoon Next (Weather permitting)
  In Aid of the Fund for Sick and Suffering Spinsters
  A First Performance will be given of
  The Blood-Curdling and Hair-Raising Melodrama entitled
  The Blue Cabbage
  by Allthelotofus.

  Dramatis Personae.
  Efflorescence (A Guileless Maid)--Miss Darsie Garnett.
  Meretricia (1st Villainess)--Mr Harry Garnett.
  Mycrobe (2nd Villainess)--Mr Russell Garnett.
  Elijah B.  Higgins (Hero)--Mr Dan Vernon.
  Sigismund La Bas (A False Caitiff)--Mr Percy Lister.
  D.  Spenser (Certificated Poisonmonger)--Mr John Vernon.
  Endeavora (A Well-Meaner)--Miss Clemence Garnett.
  The Greek Chorus--Miss Hannah Vernon.

  N.B.--There is no Cabbage!

Imagine the feelings of a solitary invalid on receipt of such a programme as the above--a programme
of an entertainment organised, composed, and designed wholly and solely for her own amusement!
Lavender's mumps were at a painful stage--so sore, so stiff, so heavy, that she felt all face,
had no spirit to read, craved for companionship, and yet shrank sensitively from observing
eyes.  Let those jeer who may, it is an abominable thing to feel a martyr, and look a clown,
and poor Lavender's sensitive nature suffered acutely from the position.  Then oh! it was good
to feel that to-morrow something exciting was going to happen--that she would be amused, cheered,
comforted; that her dear companions would be near her, so near that once again she would feel
one of the merry throng.

If only it were fine!  Really and truly Lavender felt that she could not support the blow if
it were wet.  Mumps seem to sap the constitution of moral force; if she could not see the melodrama,
she would weep like a child!

It was fine, however.  The very elements conspired in her behalf, and produced a still, unshiny
day, when the pageant of the melodrama appeared to the best advantage, and the voices rose
clear and distinct to that upper window, before which Lavender stood, a muffled figure, in
a fur coat and cap, and a great wool shawl swathed round face and neck after the fashion of
an English veil.

The melodrama proved even more thrilling than had been expected.  On his, or her, first appearance
on the scene, each character advanced to a spot directly in front of the upstairs window, and
obligingly related the salient points of his life, character, and ambitions, together with
a candid exposition of his intentions towards the other members of the cast; the while Hannah,
as Greek Chorus, interposed moral remarks and reflections on the same.  After an indulgent
hearing of these confessions, it would appear that two ambitions were common to the actors--either
they wished to elope with the hero or heroine, or to poison the False Caitiff, and the Villainess
Number One or Two, or such a contingent of these worthies as excluded themselves.

The Well-Meaner assiduously endeavoured to foil these intents, and received the scant amount
of encouragement which falls to well-meaning interference in real life; the Certified Poisonmonger
presided over three tin pails of liquids, labelled respectively, "Lingering," "Sudden," and
"A highly superior article in writhes and coils.  As patronised by the Empress of China" and
the demand for these wares was naturally brisk in so quarrelsome a company: the False Caitiff
chose a sudden death for his rival, the Hero; Meretricia, the first Villainess, poisoned the
Caitiff by a more lingering means; Villainess Number Two, under the false impression that the
Hero had given his heart to Meretricia, poisoned that good lady, sparing no money on the deed,
whereby Russell was afforded an admirable opportunity of exhibiting his wriggling powers. 
The guileless maid poisoned herself with the dregs in her lover's glass; and the Poisonmonger,
fatigued with the rush of Christmas business, fainted away, and, being revived by potions from
his own pails, survived only long enough to administer a forcible dose in revenge.  The Well-Meaner's
fate differed from that of her companions in that she was insidiously poisoned by each actor
in turn, so that, figuratively speaking, the curtain descended upon a row of corpses, in the
midst of which the Greek Chorus intoned exemplary precepts and advice.

Hannah, as Greek chorus, was by common consent pronounced the star of the company, her interpolated
reflections being so droll and to the point that even the lingering victims found themselves
overcome with laughter.

As for the audience, her joy, though great, was not unmixed with pain. As the melodrama approached
its critical point the actors could see her at her window, holding up her mumps with either
hand, and the piteous plea--"Don't make me laugh!  Don't make me laugh!" floated down on the
wintry air.

Next day Lavender was worse, and melodramas were banned as a means of recreation; but she sent
a touching message of thanks to the troupe, in which she declared that "the joy outweighed
the pain," so that, all things considered, "The Blue Cabbage" was voted a great success.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

DAN AND DARSIE.

No sooner did the news of Lavender's illness, and Darsie's consequent absence from home, reach
the Percival household than three separate letters were dispatched, insisting that at least
a part of the remaining holidays should be spent at the Manor.

Pray why, the girls demanded, should Hannah Vernon be allowed to engross Darsie, when she enjoyed
her society practically the whole year round? It was unjust, mean, contemptible.  They were
so dull and sad this Christmas-time.  Wouldn't Darsie come?

Pray why, inquired Ralph ingenuously, did Darsie not come when she had the chance?  She knew
that he would be glad to see her.  It was quite horribly dull.  The parents were absurdly humped--

Mrs Percival's words were few but disturbing: "I want to consult with you about Ralph.  You
have more influence over him than any one else. Do come, dear child, if you possibly can."

In face of the last letter it was impossible to say no.  Darsie was not sure that she wanted
to say no; on the other hand, she was aggravatingly uncertain if she wanted to say yes.  At
college and at home alike the atmosphere was at once austere and bracing; it would be agreeable
to live for a time in the lap of luxury--to be regarded as a miracle of cleverness and beauty;
which treatment was invariably bestowed upon her during her visits to The Manor.  She would
enjoy staying with the Percivals, but she would be sad to miss the cosy hours when Dan and
his friend, Percy Lister, joined the little party in the old study, and they all talked together
round the fire.  What talks they had; what themes they discussed!  What animated discussions
sprang from a casual word, and were pursued with a go and a spirit which seem to exist only
on such informal occasions.  Sometimes they laughed and quipped, and beheld everything from
the comic point of view; anon, a sudden spirit of earnestness would pass from one to the other,
and as the fading light hid their faces from view, tongues were set free, so that they talked
of the things which mattered, the towering realities which lay at the heart of life!  During
these discussions Dan invariably seated himself in the darkest corner, and Darsie, looking
across, had again and again the impression of deep eyes staring--staring!  Vie Vernon considered
the Percivals "grasping creatures," and didn't care who knew it; Hannah was placidly unconcerned;
Dan made no remark; Percy Lister was leaving himself, and considered that things "fitted in
well."  Altogether, in comparison with the enthusiasm of the invitation, the opposition was
blightingly resigned.  Darsie tossed her head, packed her boxes, and prepared to depart a whole
three days sooner than she had originally intended.

On the afternoon before her departure a party was made up for the rink, but at the last moment
Darsie excused herself, and declared a wish to stay at home.  There were several pieces of
sewing and mending which were necessary, there was a letter to be written to Margaret France,
and a farewell ode to cheer poor Lavender.  A gas fire in her bedroom allowed her to perform
these tasks in solitude, but as soon as they were satisfactorily accomplished she made her
way downstairs to the study, prepared to enjoy an hour over an interesting book.

The gas was unlit, the usual large fire blazed in the grate; an arm- chair was drawn up to
the side, and within it sat Dan, head leaning on hand, in an attitude which spoke of weariness
and dejection.

He raised his eyes and looked at her, and Darsie shut the door and came forward eagerly.

"Dan!  Back again so soon?  Is anything wrong?"

"No!"

"But you look strange.  You--you didn't hurt yourself at the rink?"

"No."

"Quite, quite sure?"

"Quite."

Darsie subsided on to her favourite seat--the hearthrug--with a little sigh of relief.

"That's all right.  You're very monosyllabic, Dan.  Shall I disturb you if I sit here for a time?"

"No."

"A hundred thanks!  You are too gracious.  I can be quiet if you like. I like staring into
the fire and dreaming myself."

Dan did not answer.  Darsie peered at him, moving her little head from side to side so as to
get the clearest view.  He looked very large--a great shapeless mass of dark in the old red chair.

She liked the bigness of him, felt the old satisfaction at sight of the strong, rugged face,
the old craving for confidence and approval. Strange how different one felt in company with
different people.  Tete- a-tete with Ralph Percival, Darsie felt a giant of strength and resource--assured,
self-confident, a bulwark against which others might lean.  With Dan, well, with Dan she was
just a slip of a girl, conscious of nothing so much as her own weaknesses, mental and physical;
her difficult gropings, compared with his clear vision; her tiny hands and wrists, compared
with his big sinewy paw; her slim form, compared to the bulk of the square-cut shoulders. 
Never--Darsie realised it with a smile--never did she feel so humble and diffident as when
in Dan's society; yet, strangely enough, the sensation was far from disagreeable.

"Dan!"

"Darsie!"

"Is anything the matter?  Between you and me!  You don't happen to be snarkey, do you, about
anything I've done?"

"Why should you think I am `snarkey'?"

"Because--you are!  You're not a bit sociable and friendly--even your sort of sociability.
I'm a guest in your mother's house if I'm nothing else and it's your duty to be civil."

"Haven't I always been civil to you, Darsie?"

Darsie drew a quick breath of impatience and, seizing upon the poker, beat at the unoffending
coal as the best method of letting off steam.

"You are so painfully literal.  I can feel what other people are thinking, however much they
try to disguise it."

"How do I feel, for example?"

Darsie turned her head and stared curiously into Dan's face.  The hand on which it leaned shielded
it somewhat from view, but, even so, there was something in the intent gaze which filled her
with a strange new discomfort.  She turned back to her poking once more.

"I think--there's something that I don't understand--I think--there's something you disapprove!
I'm a very good girl, and I work very hard, and I'm fond of my friends, and I expect them to
be fond of me in return.  I don't like you to disapprove, Dan!"

"I can't help it, Darsie.  I've hated that friendship from the beginning, and I hate it more
with every month that passes."

"Oh! that old story."  Darsie's voice took a tone of impatience; for it was annoying to find
that Dan was harking back on the well-known subject of dispute.  "Well, I'm sorry to distress
you, but I am conceited enough to believe that I have taken no harm from my friendship with
Ralph Percival, and that he has reaped some little good from mine. While that state of thing
continues, I shall certainly refuse to give him up--even to please you!"

There was silence for several moments, then Dan said slowly--

"If I agreed with your conclusions, I should not try to persuade you, Darsie; but I do not,
and my opportunities of judging are better than yours."

"You are unfair, Dan.  It is a pity to allow yourself to be so prejudiced that you can't give
a fair judgment.  I should have imagined that even you would be forced to admit that Ralph
had done better this term."

Dan did not speak.  He turned his head and looked Darsie full in the eyes, and there was in
his look a puzzled, questioning air, which she found it difficult to understand.  When he spoke
again, it was not to reply in any direct way to her accusation, but to ask a question on his
own account.

"Darsie, do you mind telling me--is your position entirely disinterested?  Do you look upon
the fellow merely as a man to be helped, or do you care for him for his own personal sake?"

Darsie deliberated.  The firelight played on her downcast face, on the long white throat rising
from the low collar of her white blouse, on the little hands clenched round the steel poker.
Before her mind's eye arose the memory of handsome, melancholy eyes; imagination conjured back
the sound of impassioned appeals.  Her expression softened, her voice took a deeper note.

"He needs me, Dan!"

That was her answer.  Dan nodded in silence, accepting it as sufficient. He rose from his chair,
and paced up and down the room, hands thrust deep into his trouser pockets, head held back
with the characteristic forward tilt of the chin.  Darsie, watching him, thought involuntarily
of a caged animal striving restlessly against the bars.  Her heart gave a little throb of relief
when he spoke again in his own natural voice.

"All right, Darsie.  Good luck to your efforts!  I appreciate your intentions, and am only
sorry that I can't agree.  According to my belief no one can help a man who refuses to help
himself.  We've got to fight our own battles, and to bear our own burdens!  If some one steps
forward and offers to undertake for us, we may imagine for a time that we are set free, but
it's a mistake!  Sooner or later the time comes when we're bound to fight it out alone, and
it doesn't get easier for being deferred.  Everything that is worth learning in life we have
to worry out for ourselves!"

Darsie drew a long, trembling sigh.  How puzzling life was, when the two people on whose judgment
you most relied delivered themselves of directly opposing verdicts!  Mrs Reeves believed that
her help was all- important to Ralph's progress; Dan insisted that her efforts were in vain.

Was he right?  Was he wrong?  Could she honestly assure herself that Ralph was stronger, more
self-reliant, more able to stand alone without the stimulus of constant support and encouragement?
Instinctively Darsie's hand went up to touch the little golden brooch which fastened the lace
collar of her blouse.  If the anchor were withdrawn, would Ralph drift once more towards the
rocks?  The answer was difficult.  She pondered it aloud, speaking in low, anxious tones, with
lengthened pauses between the words.

"We're both right, Dan.  We've both got hold of bits of the truth!  In the end we must win
through for ourselves, but surely, in preparation for the battle, we can give each other some
help.  Some natures seem made to stand, and others to lean.  A prop is not of much account,
but it may serve to keep a plant straight while it is gathering strength. The big oaks need
no props; they are so strong that they can't understand; they have no pity for weakness."

Dan stopped short in his pacings.

"That meant for me, Darsie?"

"Humph!  Just as you please!  Oaks are nice things--big, and strong, and restful, but just
a little bit inclined to grow--gnarled!"

Dan vouchsafed no reply, and Darsie sat, hands clasped round knees, staring into the fire for
five long, silent minutes.  She was hoping that Dan would never grow "gnarled" towards herself,
longing for him to speak and promise that he would not, but he still remained silent, and presently
the door burst open, the rinking party appeared on the threshold, and the opportunity for quiet
conclave was over.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

NEW YEAR'S EVE.

Seated alone in the train, en route for her visit to the Percivals, Darsie had time to think
in a more quiet and undisturbed fashion than had been possible in the past bustling days, and
a disagreeable feeling of apprehension arose in her mind as she recalled the wording of the
three invitations.  In each was present the same note of depression, the same hint of trouble
in connection with the son of the house.  Could anything have happened of which she was unaware?
No letter from The Manor had reached her for some weeks past, but letters were proverbially
scarce at Christmas-time, so that it would be foolish to argue ill from that fact alone.  Darsie
braced herself physically and mentally, squared her shoulders, and resolutely dismissed gloomy
thoughts.

Noreen and Ralph met her at the station, looking reassuringly cheerful and at ease a magnificent
new motor stood in waiting outside, with a cart for the luggage.  Inside the beautiful old
house the atmosphere was warmed by hot pipes, and scented with the fragrance of hothouse plants,
banked together in every corner.  It was not the usual case of being warm and cosy inside a
room, and miserably chilled every time one crossed a passage or ascended the stairs.  Mrs Percival
and the girls were marvels of elegance in Parisian gowns, Ralph looked his handsomest in knickerbocker
suit and gaiters, and the servants moved noiselessly to and fro, performing their tasks with
machine-like accuracy.

Extraordinary how complete a change of scene may take place between lunch and tea!  How swiftly
a new atmosphere makes the old unreal!

As Darsie sat drinking her tea in the old wainscoted hall, it seemed impossible to realise
that such things as poverty and struggle were in existence; even the shabby bustle and squeeze
of her own dear home became incredible in the face of this spacious, well-ordered calm!

Mrs Percival made no attempt at private conversation, and showed no trace of "ulterior motive"
in manner or conversation, which was a huge relief to Darsie's mind.  She was not in a mood
for serious conversation; what she wanted was the usual Percival offering of praise, admiration,
and petting, and this was bestowed upon her with even more than the usual generosity.  The
grey-whiskered old Squire kissed her on both cheeks; the girls assured her that she was prettier
than ever, and greeted her feeblest sallies with bursts of delighted laughter.  Ralph gazed
at her with adoring eyes; it was all, as Darsie had been wont to remark, most grateful and
comforting!

The first evening passed pleasantly enough, though there was a noticeable effort on the part
of each member of the family to keep the conversation from touching upon the subject of Ralph's
affairs.  Any reference to Cambridge was taboo, as Darsie swiftly discovered, but there were
many points of interest left, which were both pleasant and amusing to discuss.

The next morning--the last morning of the year--broke fine and bright, and the view seen through
the long windows of the dining-room was almost as beautiful as in summer itself.  The park
showed the same stretch of velvet green, a belt of evergreens and tall Scotch firs filled up
the far distance, while the leafless boughs of elms and beeches made a lace- like tracery against
the sky.  To the right the old cedar stood calm and unmoved, as it had stood while generations
of Percivals had lived, and loved, and sorrowed, and died.

When breakfast was over--and breakfast in the country is a meal which pursues a calm and leisurely
course--the four young people strolled into the porch to discuss the programme for the day.

"Darsie is nerving herself to look at the horses' tails!" said Ida laughingly.  It was a Percival
peculiarity, agreeable or irritating according to the mood of the hearer, that they never by
any chance forgot a remark, but continually resurrected it in conversation for years to come.
Never a morning had Darsie spent at the Manor that she had not been reminded of scathing comments
on the habit of daily visits to kennels and stables, as delivered by herself on the occasion
of her first visit.  To-day, however, she had only time to grimace a reply, before Ida continued
cheerfully--

"You won't be asked, my dear!  We have something far more important on hand.  You have walked
right into the jaws of the tenants' annual New Year's treat, and will have to tire your hands
decorating all the morning, and your gums smiling all the evening.  It's an all-day-and- night
business, and we get home at cock-crow in a state of collapse--"

"It's held in the village hall," Noreen took up the tale, slipping unconsciously into what
Darsie called her "squire's-eldest-daughter- manner."

"Quite a nice building.  We make it look festive with wreaths and bunting.  They think so much
of decorations!"  ("They" in Percival parlance alluded to the various tenants on the estate.)
"We try to think of something novel each year as a surprise.  They like surprises.  We've arranged
with half a dozen girls to be there to help.  Quite nice girls, daughters of the principal
farmers.  You must be quite sweet to them, Darsie, please!  It is our principal meeting of
the year, and we make a point of being friendly."

"Must I really?"  Darsie assumed an expression of dejection.  "What a disappointment!  It's
so seldom I get an opportunity of being proud and grand.  What's the good of staying at a Manor
House, and driving down with `the family,' if I have to be meek and friendly like any one else?
Couldn't you introduce me as the Lady Claire, and let me put on airs for a treat?  It would
act as a contrast to your `friendly ways,' and make them all the more appreciated."

The girls laughed as in duty bound, and declared that it would be sport, and wondered if they
dared, but Ralph sharply called them to order.

"Rot!  As if everybody in this neighbourhood didn't know Darsie by heart!  Put on your hats,
and don't talk rubbish.  It will take us all our time to get through with the hall before lunch."

Town-bred Darsie privately hoped that the motor would appear to carry the helpers to the hall
three miles away, but the Percivals themselves never seemed to dream of such a possibility.
In short skirts and thick boots they plodded cheerfully across boggy meadows and muddy lanes,
climbed half a dozen stiles, and arrived at last in the High Street of the little village,
close to the entrance of the unpretentious wooden building which called itself the Village Hall.

Darsie thought that she had never beheld an interior which seemed so thoroughly to need, and
at the same time to defy, decoration! Whitewashed walls, well splashed by damp; a double row
of pegs all round the walls at a level of some five or six feet from the ground; wooden forms,
and a small square platform, made up a whole which was bare and ugly to a degree.

A group of five or six girls stood beside a pile of evergreens; a youth in shirt-sleeves was
in process of unpacking crumpled flags and flattened Japanese lanterns from an old tin box;
two ladders stood against the walls.

The entrance of "the family" was marked by a general movement among the little company, and
Darsie watched the greetings which ensued with twinkling amusement.

Noreen and Ida were so pleasant, so full of gratitude for the presence of each individual helper,
so anxious to be assured that they could really spare the time.  Ralph was so laboriously polite,
while the girls themselves, pleasant, kindly, and well-educated, were either happily unaware
of the thinly disguised patronage, or had the good manners to conceal their knowledge.  There
was no doubt which side appeared to best advantage in the interview!

"The first thing we must do is to decide upon a scheme of decoration," Ida declared.  "Darsie,
suggest something!  You have never done it before, so your ideas ought to be novel.  What can
we do to make the hall look pretty and cheerful?"

"Rebuild it!" was Darsie's instant and daring reply, whereat the farmers' daughters laughed
en masse, and the Percivals looked haughtily displeased.

"Father built it!"

"Awfully good of him!  And wicked of his architect.  I shan't employ him to build my house!"

"I think," said Noreen loftily, "that we had better confine ourselves to discovering the scheme
of decoration.  It is too late to interfere with the structure of the hall.  We generally make
wreaths and fasten them to the gas brackets, and drape the platform with flags."

"Then we may take it as settled that we won't do that to-day.  What happens to the pegs?"

"They hang their things on them, of course--hats, and coats, and mufflers--"

"That must be decorative!  How would it be to make them leave their wrappings at the entrance
to-night, or put them under their own chairs, and to arrange a broad band of holly round the
room so as to hide the pegs from view?  It would be so easy to tie on the branches, and it
would have quite a fine frieze effect."

"`Mrs Dick, you are invaluable!'" quoted Ralph gaily.  "It's a ripping idea.  Let's set to
at once, and try the effect."

No sooner said than done; the little band of workers spread themselves over the room, and began
the task of trying prickly holly branches to the line of pegs in such fashion as to form a
band about two feet deep, entirely round the room.  Berries being unusually plentiful that
year, the effect was all the more cheery, and with the disappearance of the utilitarian pegs
the hall at once assumed an improved aspect.  A second committee meeting hit on the happy idea
of transforming the platform into a miniature bower, by means of green baize and miniature
fir-trees, plentifully sprinkled with glittering white powder.  The flags were relegated to
the entrance-hall.  The Japanese lanterns, instead of hanging on strings, were so grouped as
to form a wonderfully lifelike pagoda in a corner of the hall, where--if mischievously disposed--they
might burn at their ease without endangering life or property.  The ironwork of the gas-brackets
was tightly swathed with red paper, and the bare jets fitted with paper shades to match.  From
an artistic point of view Darsie strongly opposed the hanging of the timeworn mottoes, "A Hearty
Welcome to All," "A Happy New Year," and the like, but the Squire's daughters insisted that
they liked to see them, and the farmers' daughters confirming this theory, up they went, above
the evergreen frieze, the white cotton letters standing out conspicuously from their turkey-red
background.

It was one o'clock before the work was finished, and a tired and distinctly grubby quartette
started out on their three-mile return walk across the fields.  Certainly country-bred folk
were regardless of fatigue!  "If I owned a motor I should use it!"  Darsie said to herself
with a distinct air of grievance as she climbed to her own room after lunch, and laid herself
wearily on her couch, the while the Percival trio trotted gaily forth for "just a round" over
their private golf-links.

The evening programme was to begin with a concert, alternate items of which were to be given
by the villagers and members of the surrounding "families."

At ten o'clock refreshments were to be served, in adjoining classrooms, and during the progress
of the informal supper chairs and forms were to be lifted away, and the room cleared for an
informal dance, to be concluded by a general joining of hands and singing of "Auld Lang Syne"
as the clock struck twelve.

The Percival ladies and their guests from the surrounding houses made elaborate toilettes for
the occasion.  The villagers were resplendent in Sunday blacks, "best frocks" and bead chains,
the small girls and boys appearing respectively in white muslins and velveteen Lord Fauntleroy
suits; the Squire opened proceedings with expressions of good wishes, interspersed with nervous
coughs, and Noreen and Ida led off the musical proceedings with a lengthy classical duet, to
which the audience listened with politely concealed boredom.

To Darsie's mind, the entire programme as supplied by "the families" was dull to extinction,
but to one possessing even her own slight knowledge of the village, the contributions of its
worthies were brimful of interest and surprise.

The red-faced butcher, who, on ordinary occasions, appeared to have no mind above chops and
steaks, was discovered to possess a tenor voice infinitely superior in tone to that of his
patron, the Hon.  Ivor Bruce, while his wife achieved a tricky accompaniment with a minimum
of mistakes; the sandy-haired assistant at the grocer's shop supplied a flute obbligato, and
the fishmonger and the young lady from the stationer's repository assured each other ardently
that their true loves owned their hearts; two school-children with corkscrew curls held a heated
argument--in rhyme--on the benefits of temperance; and, most surprising and thrilling of all,
Mr Jevons, the butler from The Manor, so far descended from his pedestal as to volunteer "a
comic item" in the shape of a recitation, bearing chiefly, it would appear, on the execution
of a pig.  The last remnant of stiffness vanished before this inspiring theme, and the audience
roared applause as one man, whereupon Mr Jevons bashfully hid his face, and skipped--literally
skipped--from the platform.

"Who'd have thought it!  Butlers are human beings, after all!" gasped Darsie, wiping tears
of merriment from her eyes.  "Ralph, do you suppose Jevons will dance with me to-night?  I
should be proud!"

"Certainly not.  He has one square dance with the mater, and that finishes it.  You must dance
with me instead.  It's ages since we've had a hop together--or a talk.  I'm longing to have
a talk, but I don't want the others to see us at it, or they'd think I was priming you in my
own defence, and the mater wants to have the first innings herself.  We'll manage it somehow
in the interval between the dances, and I know you'll turn out trumps, as usual, Darsie, and
take my part."

Ralph spoke with cheerful confidence, and Darsie listened with a sinking heart.  The merry
interlude of supper was robbed of its zest, as she cudgelled her brains to imagine what she
was about to hear.  Ralph was evidently in trouble of some sort, and his parents for once inclined
to take a serious stand.  Yet anything more gay and debonair than the manner with which the
culprit handed round refreshments and waited on his father's guests it would be impossible
to imagine.  Darsie watched him across the room, and noted that wherever he passed faces brightened.
As he cracked jokes with the apple-cheeked farmers, waited assiduously on their buxom wives,
and made pretty speeches to the girls, no onlooker could fail to be conscious of the fact that,
in the estimation of the tenants, "Master Ralph" was as a young prince who could do no wrong.

For reasons of his own, Ralph was tonight bent on ingratiating himself to the full.  For the
first half-hour of the dance he led out one village belle after another, and it was not until
waltz number five had appeared on the board that he returned to Darsie's side.

"At last I've a moment to myself!  My last partner weighed a ton, at least, and I'm fagged
out.  Got a scarf you can put round you if we go and sit out?"

Darsie nodded, showing a wisp of gauze, and, laying her hand on Ralph's arm, passed with him
out of the main room into the flag-decked entrance. For the moment it was empty, the dancers
having made en masse in the direction of the refreshment-tables.  Ralph looked quickly from
side to side, and, finding himself unobserved, took a key from his pocket and opened a small
door leading into the patch of garden at the back of the hall.  The moonlight showed a wooden
bench fitted into a recess in the wall.  Ralph flicked a handkerchief over its surface, and
motioned Darsie towards a seat.

"It's clean enough.  I gave it a rub this morning.  You won't be cold?"

"Oh, no; not a bit."  Darsie wrapped the wisp of gauze round her shoulders, and prepared to
risk pneumonia with as little thought as ninety-nine girls out of a hundred would do in a similar
case.  The hour had come when she was to be told the nature of Ralph's trouble; she would not
dream of losing the opportunity for so slight a consideration as a chill!

Ralph seated himself by her side, rested an elbow on his knees, the thumb and first finger
of the uplifted hand supporting his chin.  His eyes searched Darsie's face with anxious scrutiny.

"You didn't hear anything about me before you left Newnham?"

"Hear what?  No!  What was there to hear?"

Ralph averted his eyes, and looked across the patch of garden.  The moonlight shining on his
face gave it an appearance of pallor and strain.

"Dan Vernon said nothing?"

"No!"  Darsie recalled Dan's keen glance of scrutiny, the silence which had greeted her own
remarks, and realised the reason which lay behind. "Dan is not the sort to repeat disagreeable
gossip."

"It's not gossip this time; worse luck, it's solid, abominable fact. You'll be disappointed,
Darsie.  I'm sorry!  I have tried.  Beastly bad luck being caught just at the end.  I was sent
down, Darsie!  It was just at the end of the term, so they sent me down for the last week.
A week is neither here nor there, but the parents took it hard.  I'm afraid you, too--"

Yes!  Darsie "took it hard."  One look at her face proved as much, and among many contending
feelings, disappointment was predominant--bitter, intense, most humiliating disappointment.

"Oh, Ralph!  What for?  I hoped, I thought--you promised me to be careful!"

"And so I was, Darsie!  Give you my word, I was.  For the first half of the term I never got
anything worse than three penny fines.  It isn't a deadly thing to stay out after ten.  And
I was so jolly careful--never was so careful in my life.  But just the night when it was most
important I must needs be caught.  You can't expect a fellow to get away from a big evening
before twelve.  But that's what it ended in--a big jaw, throwing up all my past misdeeds, and
being sent down.  Now you can slang away."

But Darsie made no attempt to "slang."  With every word that had been uttered her feelings
of helplessness had increased.  Ralph had apparently made little difference in his ways; he
had only been more careful not to be found out!  At the very moment when she had been congratulating
herself, and boasting of the good results of her friendship, this crowning disgrace had fallen
upon him.  No wonder Dan had been silent; no wonder that he had looked upon her with that long,
questioning gaze!  The thought of Dan was singularly comforting at this moment--strong, silent,
loyal Dan, going forth valiantly to the battle of life.  Darsie's little face took on a pinched
look; she shivered, and drew the thin scarf more tightly round her.  Her silence, the suffering
written on her face, hit Ralph more hardly than any anger; for the first time something deeper
than embarrassment showed itself in face and voice.

"For pity's sake, Darsie, speak!  Say something!  Don't sit there and look at me like that."

"But, Ralph, what is there to say?"  Darsie threw out her arms with a gesture of hopelessness.
"I've talked so often, been so eloquent, believed so much!  If this is the outcome, what more
can be said?"

"I have tried!  I did want to please you!"

"By not being found out!  It's not much comfort, Ralph, to feel that I've encouraged you in
deception.  And all those nights when you stayed out late, were you betting as usual--getting
into debt?"

Ralph frowned.

"I've been beastly unlucky, never knew such a persistent run.  That's the dickens of it, Darsie.
I haven't dared to tell the Governor yet, but I positively must get hold of the money before
the tenth.  I'm bound to pay up by then.  It's a debt of honour."

Darsie's red lip curled over that word.  She sat stiff and straight in her seat, not deigning
a reply.  Ralph appeared to struggle with himself for several moments, before he said urgently--

"The mater is going to talk to you.  She knows that you have more influence with me than any
one else.  It's true, Darsie, whatever you may think--I should have drifted a lot deeper but
for you.  When she does, do your best for a fellow!  They'll be down on me for not having told
about this debt.  The Governor asked if there was anything else, but upon my word I hadn't
the courage to own up at that moment."

Still Darsie did not reply.  She was wondering drearily what she could find to say when the
dreaded interview came about; shrinking from the thought of adding to the mother's pain, feeling
a paralysing sense of defeat; yet, at this very moment of humiliation, a ray of light illumined
the darkness and showed the reason of her failure.

Dan was right! no one could truly help a man without first implanting in his heart the wish
to help himself!  She had been content to bribe Ralph, as a spoiled child is bribed to be good;
had felt a glow of gratified vanity in the knowledge that her own favour was the prize to be
won.  If the foundations of her buildings were unstable, what wonder that the edifice had fallen
to the ground?  The thought softened her heart towards the handsome culprit by her side, and
when she spoke at last it was in blame of herself rather than of him.

"I'm sorry, too, Ralph.  I might have helped you better.  I rushed in where angels fear to
tread.  I gave you a wrong motive.  It should have been more than a question of pleasing me--more
even than pleasing your parents...  Oh, Ralph, dear, you know--you know there is something
higher than that!--Is religion nothing to you, Ralph?  Don't you feel that in wasting your
life you are offending against God--against Christ! Can't you try again with that motive to
help you?--I can't make light of things to your people, but I can take part of the blame on
myself. If it is true that I have any influence over you, I have thrown it away..."

Ralph laid his hand over the gloved fingers clasped together on Darsie's knee.

"Don't say that!  Don't think that, Darsie.  I may be a rotter, but I'd have been a hundred
times worse if it hadn't been for you.  And don't exaggerate the position: it's a pity to do
that.  Every man isn't born a Dan Vernon.  Most fellows only reach that stage of sobriety when
they are middle-aged.  It would be a pretty dull world if no one kicked over the traces now
and then in their youth.  What have I done, after all? Slacked my work, helped myself to a
bit more play and come down on the Governor for an extra cheque now and again.  Lots of fellows
come a worse cropper than that--"

Darsie wondered if a "worse cropper" might not possibly be a less serious ill than persistent
slacking and irresponsibility; but now that the bad news was out, Ralph was fast regaining
his composure.

"I'll turn out all right yet, Darsie, you'll see.  The tenants like me. I'll settle down and
make a first-rate squire when my time comes.  And I'll make up to you then for all this worry
and bother."  For a moment his voice was significantly tender, then the recollection of his
present difficulty swept over him once more, and he added hastily: "You'll-- you'll break it
to the mater, won't you?  About that money, I mean. She'll take it best from you--"

Darsie rose from her seat, and stood before him, tall and white in the moonlight.

"No!" she said clearly.  "I will not.  You must make your own confession.  Things have been
made easy for you all your life, Ralph. Now you must fight for yourself."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ralph bore no malice; even his momentary irritation at finding himself, as he considered, "left
in the lurch," lasted but a few moments after his return to the hall.  Darsie would rather
have had it last a little longer.  To see an unclouded face, to catch the echo of merry laughter
within ten minutes of a humiliating confession, seemed but another instance of instability
of character.  It seemed literally impossible for Ralph to feel deeply on any subject for more
than a few moments at a time; nevertheless, such was the charm of his personality that she
felt both pleased and flattered when twelve o'clock approached and he came smilingly forward
to lead her to her place in the great ring encircling the whole room.  "I must have you and
mother--one on either side," he said, and as they crossed the floor together Darsie was conscious
that every eye in the room followed them with a smiling significance.  The young Squire, and
the pretty young lady who was his sister's friend--a nice pair they made, to be sure!  Every
brain was busy with dreams of the future, weaving romantic plans, seeing in imagination other
scenes like the present, with Darsie in the place of hostess.  She knew it, divined instinctively
that Ralph knew it too, felt the recognition of it in the grip of Noreen's hand, in the tender
pathos of Mrs Percival's smile.  And once again Darsie wondered, and doubted, and feared and
felt the weight of invisible chains.  There are moments, however, when doubts and fears are
apt to be swept away in a rush of overwhelming emotions, and one of those is surely the beginning
of a new year.  To be young and pretty; to be by general acceptance the queen of the evening--no
normal girl could help being carried away by such circumstances as these!  When the last chime
of the twelve rang slowly out, and the audience with one accord burst into the strains of "Auld
Lang Syne," Darsie's eyes shone with excitement, and she returned with unction the pressure
of Ralph's fingers.

  "Then here's a hand, my trusty friend,
  And gie's a hand o' thine!"

The volume of sound swelled and sank, here and there a voice took a husky tone; here and there
an eye grew dim, but these belonged as a rule to the patriarchs among the guests, for whom
the past was full of tender memories, for whom but a few more New Years could dawn.  Perhaps
this might be the last, the very last, they would live to see.  The young folks shed no tears;
they were not unconscious of the prevailing emotion, but with them it found vent in a tingling
expectation.  Life lay ahead.  Life was to come.  What would life bring?

When the song ceased, and the linked circle broke up into separate groups, Darsie, glancing
up into Ralph's face, was surprised to see it white and tense.  She smiled, half amused, half
sad, bracing herself to hear some emotional protest or vow for the future; but Ralph spake
no word.  Instead, he led her to a seat, bowed formally before her, and, still with that white,
fixed look, marched straight across the room to his father.

Darsie's pulse quickened, her little teeth clenched on her lower lip, she pressed her hands
against her knee the while she watched the eloquent scene.  Father and son faced each other;
handsome man, handsome youth, strangely alike despite the quarter of a century between their
respective ages; the Squire's face, at first all genial welcome and unconcern, showing rapidly
a pained gravity.  Ralph was speaking rapidly, with an occasional eloquent gesture of the arm,
obviously recounting some facts of pressing importance to himself and his hearer, as obviously
pleading a cause.  With a thrill of excitement Darsie leaped to the true explanation of the
situation.  Fresh from the singing of the New Year song, Ralph had not paused to consider conventions,
but then and there had hastened to make his confession in his father's ears.

"Governor!  I'm sorry!  I was a coward, and wouldn't own up.  I've been playing the fool again,
and have lost more money.  I owe over fifty pounds, and it has to be paid up by the tenth of
this month."

The Squire looked his son full in the face.

"Is that all the truth, Ralph, or only a part?" he asked quietly.  "Let me hear the whole please,
now that we are about it."

"That is the whole, sir.  There's nothing more to be told."

"The money shall be paid, but you must do something for me in return. We can't talk here. 
Come to my study when we get home!"

The Squire laid his hand on his son's shoulder with a momentary pressure as he turned aside
to attend to his guests, but Ralph lopped crestfallen and discomfited.  It was one thing to
blurt out a disagreeable confession on the impulse of a moment, and another and very different
one to discuss it in cold blood in the privacy of a study.  In the middle of the night, too!
Ralph shivered at the thought.  Why on earth couldn't the Governor be sensible, and wait till
next morning?  The money would be paid--that was the main point--all the rest could wait.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

AT THE ORCHARD.

Ralph Percival spent a long hour alone with his father in the chill dawn of that New Year's
morn, and during its passing heard more stern home- truths than he had ever before listened
to from those indulgent lips. The Squire had not insisted on any arduous work on his son's
part: in his heart he shared Ralph's theory that a man whose life is to be spent looking after
his own land has no need of much scholarly lore.  He must be straight and manly, intelligent
enough to understand and move with the movements of the day, but not so intelligent as to grow
discontented with a circle of admirable, but somewhat humdrum, neighbours.  He must be possessed
of courteous and agreeable manners, able on occasion to take the chair at a meeting, possibly
even on a Bench, with credit to himself and his family.

A 'Varsity education was obviously the best means of developing such qualities, but who was
going to bother his head as to the question of honours or no honours?  There was no reason
why the boy should slave as if he had his living to make by sheer brain effort.  The Squire
was prepared to show the utmost leniency towards Ralph's scholastic efforts, but that he should
have persistently broken the rules, ignored warnings, incurred gambling debts, and, crowning
indignity of all, that he should have been sent down, even for the last week of the term--that
stabbed the honest old countryman to his heart.

He said very little on the subject of his own feelings; such men are not given to talk of themselves,
but the tone of his voice was eloquent, and Ralph winced before it.  It was a new experience
for the spoilt son and heir to hear any accents but those of love and appreciation from a member
of his own family, and the experience was unexpectedly bitter. Who could have believed that
the Governor would cut up so rough--could deliver himself of such sledge-hammer judgments?
The card debts would be paid, there was no question of that--every debt should be paid--and
Ralph should return to college with a clean sheet so far as money was concerned, and with his
handsome allowance undiminished--for the present.  He himself must decide what would happen
in the future.  The Squire asked for no promises; he had had experience of the uselessness
of promises (the listener winced again at the significance of those words); but Ralph must
understand that any debts would be subtracted from his own future allowance.  He must also
understand that he was expected to take his pass the following May.  There had been too much
shirking and running loose--now he must work for a change.  For his parents' sake, his sisters'
sake, he must make amends for the pain and shame of the last weeks.

It was a painful scene for both father and son, but the charm of manner which was the great
secret of Ralph's popularity did not forsake him, even in this hour of humiliation.  He made
an ideal penitent--abashed, yet manly, subdued and silenced, yet when the right moment came
ready with a few apt, quietly spoken words.

"Thank you, sir.  You are always generous.  I've made a beastly poor return.  I hope this year
may end better than it has begun."

Poor Ralph!  How little he guessed at that moment all that the year held in store!  How little
the father dreamed of the altered conditions with which he would face another New Year's Day!
But so long as they both lived it was good to remember that the interview had ended peacefully
and with a renewed sense of harmony, with a firm hand-grip and an affectionate glance.

Ralph took his candle from a table in the hall and made his way quietly up the oak staircase,
and his father stood below and watched him go, while his heart waxed tender within him.

His son--his only son!  He would give his heart's blood for the lad. Had he been just, wise,
prudent, in the words which he had said?  Had he been stern enough?--too stern?  He was in
a thousand minds about his own conduct, but in only one as regards Ralph's.  The boy had taken
his dressing like a man.  How handsome he had looked as he stood to listen, not flinching or
hanging his head as an ordinary culprit would have done, but drawn to his full height, with
straight, fearless gaze.  With what a frank air he had held out his hand for that farewell
grasp! Bless the boy! his heart was in the right place.  He would settle down, and make a fine
man yet.  Patience!  Patience!

And so when the family met again for a late breakfast that New Year's morning there was no
shadow visible on the horizon, and throughout the remainder of Darsie's visit every day seemed
given up to enjoyment, and brought with it some fresh festivity.

Contrary to her expectation, the subject of Ralph's troubles was avoided rather than sought,
and it was only on the eve of her departure to Newnham that mother and sisters broke the silence
to urge in each case the same request--

"See as much of Ralph as you can during these next six months!  Have a little talk with Ralph
now and again!  Show an interest in his work. Let him see that you care.  We must all do our
best to encourage him to work!"

By all the members of the family it was taken for granted that Darsie's interest in Ralph's
future was equal to, if not greater than, their own; they made no secret of their belief that
her influence had the more weight.  If Darsie had known a passing temptation to abandon her
efforts, it would have been impossible to do so in the face of such unanimous appeals.

Well, it was good to be back in Newnham once more, to get to work again after the lazy weeks,
to wake up one's brains with tussles over Anglo- Saxon texts, to wrestle with philology, instead
of browsing over novels and magazine tales.  The Divinity Schools were stuffy as ever, the
men on one side shutting up the windows with their usual persistence, while the girls on theirs
frowned and fumed; but the Chaucer lectures were full of interest, and coaching assumed a keener
interest as spring advanced and the prospect of "Mays" drew near.  Last year both Darsie and
Hannah had gained second-class honours; this year they had determined to gain firsts, or perish
in the attempt.  With a second and a first record for Mays there was a possibility--a dazzling
possibility--of firsts in the final Tripos.  When one thought of that it seemed impossible
to work too hard, to put too much energy into one's studies.  But the happy blending of work
and play which characterises Newnham life prevented industry from being carried to an exaggerated
extent.  The hour's informal dancing after dinner on Wednesday and Saturday evenings seemed
to quicken circulation and brain alike, and the great Shakespeare Ball was a distinct fillip,
although--or was it because?--it involved some slackness for the preparation of costumes.

The short Easter vac. served but as a breathing-space, and then another May term began with
an unparalleled succession of fine and sunny days. Everything seemed early this spring; trees
and shrubs rushed into leaf, a wealth of blossom gave a fairy-like beauty to the old-world
gardens, and in every youth and maid the spirit of the spring awoke also, and called to them
to come out to play.  This was the season for picnics, for walks along the fields by the riverside,
for boating, for bathing, for garden teas, for breakfast parties at the Orchard, amidst the
pink and white wonder of the apple-blossom.

Darsie Garnett was fired with a desire to give an Orchard party on her own account, the guests
to be Hannah, Margaret France, her special Fresher adorer (Marian White by name), Ralph Percival,
Dan Vernon, two agreeable Classics from King's; Mrs Reeves to play chaperon--just a cheery
little party of nine.  What could you wish for more?

Margaret, preternaturally solemn, opined that ten would be a more desirable number.  "Poor
Mrs Reeves!  What has she done?  Why not ask some one to play about with her?  I can't bear
to see a Lonely at a picnic or to be interrupted myself!"

"It might be judicious to invite Minerva!" agreed Darsie, twinkling, and alluding to the Don
who enjoyed the privilege of Mrs Reeves's special friendship.  "Two chaperons!  What a character
for propriety I shall gain, to be sure!  They little know."

"They know perfectly well, but they are human creatures after all. They've been young themselves,
and they enjoy the Orchard!  Set to work at once, my dear, and get out your invitations.  This
weather can't possibly last, and it's going to break my heart if it is wet."

But there was no sign of rain on that exquisite morning when at the striking of six o'clock
Darsie leaped out of bed, and thrust her ruffled golden head out of the opened window.  A few
feathery white clouds served but to intensify the blueness of the sky; the air was soft and
sweet, the garden beneath was already bathed in sunlight.  Darsie gave a little caper of delight.
Sunshine, a picnic, a pretty frock and hat waiting to be worn, and one's very best friends
to admire the result-- what healthy girl of twenty could fail to be happy under such circumstances
as these?

She sang as she dressed; she made little fancy steps, and three separate pirouettes which would
have delighted the heart of a terpsichorean mistress.  One pirouette greeted the effect of
the white dress; the second, that of the wide straw hat, with its appropriate garland of blossom;
the third was partly in celebration of the combined effect, and partly out of sheer inability
to keep still.

Her toilette completed, Darsie repaired to Hannah's room and surprised that tasteless young
woman engaged in putting the final touches to her own costume, in the shape of an abomination
designated "a neck arrangement," composed of the cheapest of machine lace and papery satin
ribbon.  Hannah jumped with dismay as a hand descended suddenly over her shoulder, and tore
this treasure from her grasp.

"No!" cried Darsie firmly.  "You are my childhood's friend, and I love you dearly, but wear
lace frills with a linen collar at my Orchard party you--shall not!  Miserable woman!  Will
you never learn how to dress?"

"I paid eleven-three for it, near the end of a term.  Thought I would please you this time!
Hate the tickling stuff myself.  Some people are never satisfied," grumbled Hannah, rummaging
in her tie-box, but it never occurred to her to dispute the decree.  On questions of toilette
Darsie's word was absolute.

The two girls descended the stairs together, and found the other three members of the party
awaiting them at the door, Margaret and the little Fresher abeam with smiles, and even Minerva
herself looking quite young and skittish.  At moments like these it dawned upon the student
mind that even a don herself could occasionally enjoy a mixture of play with her work.

At the river Mrs Reeves and the four men came forward to meet the Newnham party, the canaders
were ranged ready for the embarkment, and Darsie felt the honours of her position press heavily,
as the other members of the party stood silently waiting for her to apportion the crews.  The
worst of it was that one felt obliged to take the least desirable place oneself.  Considered
as a don, Minerva had many points, but when bound for a river picnic one did not exactly hanker
after her society.  Still, there it was.  Every position has its drawbacks.  The row up the
river on that exquisite morning was a joy independent of society, and when the Orchard itself
was reached it was undeniably agreeable to sit at the head of the table, and play the gracious
hostess to one's guests.

Orchard appetites are proverbial, but this particular party claimed to have broken all previous
records.  Soon there was hardly a fragment of food left on a plate.  The pile of banana-skins
was positively startling to behold; tea and coffee pots were drained, and drained again; requests
for milk and more milk threatened the supply of later guests, and the birds in the trees overhead
chattered not a whit more gaily than the company around the board.

"Shop" was sternly forbidden as a subject of conversation, and the remotest reference thereto
was instantly booed into silence, for behind all the lightsomeness of demeanour a weight of
anxiety lay on each heart.  The critical time was approaching when the result of the year's
work would be put to the test.  The two classics, as sons of a poor clergyman, were acutely
conscious of all that was involved by a first or second class.  Ralph Percival was realising
painfully the difficulty of making up for years of slacking, or even of keeping up a spurt
beyond a few days at a time; the little Fresher trembled at the thought of her first Mays;
even Margaret France herself showed signs of nerves before the ordeal of the Tripos, and on
one tragic occasion had even been discovered weeping hysterically upon her bed.

"C-c-couldn't remember a context," was her hiccoughing explanation of the breakdown, and henceforth
Darsie had taken her in hand, fagged for her, petted her, scolded her, put her to bed, and
ruthlessly carried off notebooks to her own study, to frustrate disastrous attempts at midnight
toil.

As for Dan, he was a giant among pigmies.  Examinations had no terrors for him; his place was
assured.  When strangers visited Cambridge, their sons and brothers pointed out his big, lumbering
form in the streets, and bade them remember Vernon--Vernon would arrive!  Darsie was conscious
that his presence lent distinction to her party, for Dan but seldom appeared in the social world.

And he was behaving so well, too! taking part in the conversation, even telling stories and
capping anecdotes of his own accord, and behaving quite amiably to Ralph.  Darsie beamed approval
on him from the end of the table, and deliberately singled him out as her companion for the
after-breakfast stroll.

"Come down to the river, Dan!  There's a tree with the most convenient forked branch where
one can sit hidden by the leaves and watch the canaders come up.  Last year I heard some quite
thrilling fragments of conversation."

"I'll be wary of that tree," said Dan solemnly, but he helped Darsie to her eyrie, and swung
himself up beside her with an alacrity which showed that the suggestion fell in well with his
own wishes, and there they sat like birds in a nest, smiling at each other with bright, friendly
glances.

"Isn't this fine?  No one saw us come, did they?  They'll think we're lost.  I'm tired of being
polite.  Thank you for coming to my party, Dan, and for being so jolly."

"Thank you for asking me and for looking so--ripping!"  Dan cast an appreciative glance at
the white dress and blossom-wreathed hat.  "Glad to see you're not knocking yourself up with
too much work."

Darsie bent her head with a dubious air.

She wished to look well, but, on the other hand, a little sympathy would not have been unwelcome.
"I'm excited this morning, and that gives me a colour," she explained.  "If you could see me
at the end of the day--I'm so weak in my mediaeval French Grammar.  It haunts me at night--"

"Stop!" cried Dan warningly.  "Don't let it haunt you here, at any rate--it would be a crime
among this blossom.  Tell me a story as you used to do in the old schoolroom days.  I haven't
heard you tell a story since that Christmas night when we all sat round the fire and burnt
fir- cones, and the light shone on your face.  You wore a white dress then. You looked all white."

"And you sat in the corner and glowered--I could see nothing, but I felt eyes.  That will be
one of the times we shall remember, Dan, when we look back on our young days--all together,
and so happy and free.  I had a melancholy turn during that cone-burning, one of the shadows
that fall upon one causelessly in the midst of the sunshine, but that was only a bit of the
happiness, after all.  It's rather wonderful to be twenty, Dan, and never to have known a real
big sorrow!  Most of the girls here have come through something, some of them a great deal.
I feel such a babe beside them.  It isn't good for one, I suppose, to have things too smooth."

"I hope they'll continue smooth for a long time to come.  You're too young for troubles, Darsie,"
said Dan hastily.  He sat silent for a few moments, his chin poking forward, his thin, expressive
lips twitching as if struggling with difficult speech.  A canader came gliding slowly by, the
man and girl occupants chatting gaily together, unconscious of the watchers in the tree on
the bank.  Their words fell absently on Darsie's ear, she was waiting for what Dan had to say.

"When they do come, you know you can depend on me.  I'm not much of a hand at social life,
so it's best to keep out of the way and let other fellows chip in who can make a better show,
but if there's anything useful to be done, you might give me a turn.  We're very old friends."

Darsie gave him an affectionate glance.  "Indeed I will.  I should feel you a tower of strength.
Thank you, dear Oak-tree."

"Thank you, Apple-blossom!" returned Dan quite gallantly, if you please, and with a laugh which
followed the passing seriousness vanished.

For the next half-hour they laughed and sparred, capped stories, and made merry, more like
a couple of happy children than hard-worked students on the verge of examinations; and then,
alas! it was time to return to work, and, sliding down from their perch, Dan and Darsie walked
forward to assemble the scattered members of the party.

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

DISASTER.

Cambridge May week is a function so well known, and so often described, that it would be superfluous
to enter in detail into its various happenings.  In their first year Darsie and Hannah had
taken little part in the festivities, but upon their second anniversary they looked forward
to a welcome spell of gaiety.  Not only were the Percivals coming up for the whole week, but
Mr and Mrs Vernon and Vie were also to be installed in rooms, and the Newnham students had
received permission to attend the two principal balls, being housed for the nights by their
own party.  Throughout Newnham the subject of frocks became, indeed, generally intermingled
with the day's work.  Cardboard boxes arrived from home, cloaks and scarves were unearthed
from the recesses of "coffins," and placed to air before opened windows; "burries" were strewn
with ribbons, laces, and scraps of tinsel, instead of the usual notebooks; third-year girls,
reviving slowly from the strain of the Tripos, consented languidly to have their hats re-trimmed
by second-year admirers, and so, despite themselves, were drawn into the maelstrom.  One enterprising
Fresher offered items of her wardrobe on hire, by the hour, day, or week, and reaped thereby
quite a goodly sum towards her summer holiday.  A blue-silk parasol, in particular, was in
universal request, and appeared with eclat and in different hands at every outdoor function
of the week.

In after-years Darsie Garnett looked back upon the day of that year on which the Masonic Ball
was held with feelings of tender recollection, as a piece of her girlhood which was altogether
bright and unclouded.  She met the Percival party at one o'clock, and went with them to lunch
in Ralph's rooms, where two other men had been invited to make the party complete.  There was
hardly room to stir in the overcrowded little study, but the crush seemed but to add to the
general hilarity.

Ralph made the gayest and most genial of hosts, and the luncheon provided for his guests was
a typical specimen of the daring hospitality of his kind!  Iced soup, lobster mayonnaise, salmon
and green peas, veal cutlets and mushrooms, trifle, strawberries and cream, and strong coffee,
were pressed in turns upon the guests, who--be it acknowledged at once--ate, drank, enjoyed,
and went forth in peace.  Later in the afternoon the little party strolled down to the river,
and in the evening there was fresh feasting, leading up to the culminating excitement of all--the
ball itself.

Beside the Percivals' Parisian creations, Darsie's simple dress made but a poor show, but then
Darsie's dresses were wont to take a secondary place, and to appear but as a background to
her fresh young beauty, instead of--as is too often the case--a dress par excellence, with
a girl tightly laced inside.  When she made her appearance in the sitting- room of the lodgings,
the verdict on her appearance was universally approving--

"You look a lamb!" gushed Ida enthusiastically.

"How do you manage it, dear?  You always seem to hit the right thing!" exclaimed Mrs Percival
in plaintive amaze; and as he helped her on with her cloak, Ralph murmured significantly--

"As if it mattered what you wore!  No one will notice the frock."

At the ball there was an appalling plethora of girls; wallflowers sat waiting round the walls,
and waited in vain.  Darsie felt sorry for them, tragically sorry; but the sight of their fixed
smiles could not but heighten the sense of her own good luck in having the chance of more partners
than she could accept.  Ralph showed at his best that evening, evincing as much care for his
sisters' enjoyment as for that of their friend.  Not until the three programmes were filled
to the last extra did he rest from his efforts, and think of his own pleasure.  It is true
that his pleasure consisted chiefly in dancing with Darsie, and their steps went so well together
that she was ready to give him the numbers for which he asked.  As for Dan Vernon, he did not
dance, but out of some mistaken sense of duty, felt it his duty to put in an appearance and glower.

"See old Vernon, glowering over there?" inquired Ralph, laughing, as he whirled Darsie lightly
by to the strains of an inspiriting two-step, and for a moment a cloud shadowed the gaiety
of her spirits.  Dan ought either to dance or stay away!  She didn't like to see him looking glum!

The dancing was carried on until four in the morning, when in the chill grey light the company
were ranged in rows, and photographed, apparently to provide a demonstration of how elderly
and plain even the youngest of the number could look under such inauspicious circumstances.

The three girls had breakfast in bed the next morning, somewhere about twelve o'clock--a delightful
occasion when all three talked at the same time, relating thrilling experiences of the night
before, comparing notes, admiring, quizzing, shaking with laughter over a dozen innocent drolleries.
These after-conferences are perhaps the best part of the festivities of our youth; and Noreen,
Ida, and Darsie began that fine June day as gaily, as happily, as unconscious of coming ill
as any three girls in the land.

Ralph had been anxious that his people should again lunch in his rooms, but Mrs Percival had
prudently decided in favour of a simple meal at home, and it was approaching tea-time when
the party sallied forth to witness the day's "bumping" on the river.  The elders were frankly
tired after their late hours, but the three girls looked fresh as flowers in their dainty white
frocks, and enjoyed to the full the kaleidoscopic beauty of the scene.

The two Percivals' interest in the bumping was of the slightest description--Ralph was not
taking part this afternoon, and with Ralph began and ended their concern.  They stood on the
crowded bank, rather hot, rather bored, amusing themselves by scanning the people near at hand.
The Vernon party were but a few yards away, and Hannah attracted special attention.

"She is plain!" exclaimed Noreen; whereat Darsie snapped her up in double-quick time.

"Of course she is plain!  She wouldn't dream, of being anything else!"

Beloved plain Hannah!  No features, however classic, could be as eloquent as hers in her old
friend's eyes.  Darsie tossed her head, and looked flusty and annoyed, whereat Noreen feebly
apologised, emphasising her offence by blundering explanations, and Ralph grew restless and
impatient.

"I say!  This is getting slow.  Come along, girls; let's take the ferry and cross to the other
side.  It's not half bad fun to see all the shows.  It will be a change, anyhow, and you can
come back when you're tired."

"I'll stay with mother," Noreen decided dutifully.  Ida surveyed the crowd on the opposite
bank with the dubious air of one who has lived all her life within her own gates.  "I don't
think I care to go into that crush."

"Oh, come along, Darsie.  Thank goodness you're not so squeamish.  Let's get out of this."
Ralph pushed impatiently forward, and Mrs Percival turned to Darsie, with raised eyebrows,
and said urgently--

"Do go, dear!  Ralph will take care of you.  We will wait for you here."

Darsie smiled assent, the thought passing lightly through her mind that Mrs Percival looked
particularly sweet and gracious when she smiled. She never dreamt that that particular smile,
that little glance of appeal, were to remain with her all heir life, to be her comfort in a
bitter grief.

They passed the spot where Hannah and Dan were standing with their friends, and acting on a
sudden impulse, Darsie turned her head, with a few laughing words of explanation: "We're going
to look at the Punch and Judies!"

There was no definite response, but Hannah's exclamation had an envious tone which made Ralph
quicken his footsteps.  It was rare good luck to get Darsie to himself for an hour; he certainly
did not wish to be saddled with plain Hannah as an unwelcome third.

The ferry-boat was on the point of starting, its flat surfaces crowded with pleasure-seekers.
Ralph and Darsie had to run the last few yards in order to secure a bare space for standing.
Ralph took the outside with the nonchalance of the true boating-man, who would almost as soon
fall in the water as not.  Darsie, standing close by his side, glanced from one to the other
of her companions, her never-failing interest in people discovering a story in each new group.

They had reached the middle of the stream, when a movement of the deck upset her balance, and
sent her swaying against Ralph's arm.  She looked up with a laughing apology, and was startled
by the sight of his face. So far was he from sharing her amusement, that never in the course
of their acquaintance had she seen him so pale, so set.  He seized the hand she had laid on
his arm, and held it in a vice-like grip, as he bent to look at the deck.  At that moment Darsie
stumbled afresh, and felt the lapping of water against her thinly clad feet.  She exclaimed
loudly, but her voice was drowned in the chorus of cries, questions, and appeals which arose
from every side.

How swiftly, with what incredible, paralysing speed a scene may change, and seeming security
give way to panic fear!  Darsie, turning her head to look at the crowd of faces which towered
so strangely above her, met but one expression in every eye--breathless, agonising dread.

Looking back upon the scene in after-life, it seemed the nightmare of a moment; then the grip
upon her arm tightened, she felt herself being pushed past Ralph towards the edge of the boat,
heard his voice speaking to her in crisp, firm tones which she had heard in dreams, but never,
never from his living lips.

"Darsie!  She's turning turtle!  There's no danger, darling, if you jump clear.  The water's
not deep.  Some one will come.  I'm going to throw you in.  Strike out for your life!"

She was lifted like a doll in his strong arms; her wild eyes, searching his, met a cheery smile
in response, she felt herself swayed to and fro, realised with a shudder the parting from the
firm grasp--fell, splashed, felt the water close over her head.

When she rose to the surface the water near her seemed full of struggling forms; she caught
a terrified glimpse of a perpendicular deck, of passengers falling like flies from their perch,
and with the instinct of despair struck out in the opposite direction.

Like most Newnham girls, she was a fair swimmer--happy hours spent in the swimming-tent had
ensured so much; but it was her first experience of fighting the water in all the crippling
fineries of race-week attire. Her shoes, her skirts, the floating ends of sash and scarf all
held her down; her soaking hat flopped over her eyes, her very gloves seemed to lessen the
force of her stroke; but breathless and spent as she was, she could not pause while from behind
arose that dread, continued cry. Ralph had told her to strike out, that there was no danger
if only she kept clear.

"All right, Darsie--all right!  Keep calm--keep calm!  I'm coming!  I've got you!  Leave yourself
to me."

It was Dan's voice speaking in her ear, clear and distinct in the midst of the clamour; she
felt herself seized in scientific fashion--in the way at which she herself had played at rescuing
her companions from imaginary death--and, relinquishing all effort, was towed numbly to the shore.

It seemed as if hundreds of people were waiting to rescue her; hundreds of arms stretched out
in welcome; hundreds of eyes grew suddenly moist with tears.  She was tired, and wet, and dazed,
but she could stand on her own feet, had no need of helping arms.  Dan took her hand in his
and ran swiftly across the grass to the nearest tent, where already preparations were in train
for the restoration of the unfortunates.

Darsie was the first of the crew to reach this shelter, and Mrs Percival and the girls awaited
her tearfully on the threshold.  She awoke to fuller consciousness at sight of their faces,
smiled in reassurement, and murmured disjointed phrases.

"Quite all right--only wet!  Ralph saved me!  A second time!  So calm and brave!"

"Yes, dear child; yes!  Take off that wet hat!" replied Mrs Percival urgently, the girl's praise
of her son adding to her tender solicitude, and she hovered around with tender touches, the
while from around rose a ceaseless string of suggestions.

"Brandy!  Hot tea!"  "She ought to change at once!"  "My house is just at hand--do come to
my house!"  "My motor is waiting outside!  Let me drive you home!"

So on, and so on, innate kindliness of heart bubbling to the surface as it invariably does
in moments of disaster.  As each unfortunate entered the tent the same programme was enacted,
the same kind offices volunteered.  "My house is close at hand--do come to my house!"

"My motor is waiting--do let me drive you back!"  Each victim of the immersion wore at first
the same dazed, helpless expression, but the presence of their companions, the kindly voices
speaking in their ear, the hot, reviving draughts soon brought about a change of mood, so that
they began to smile, to exchange remarks, to congratulate themselves on escape.  Darsie, with
characteristic elasticity, was one of the first to regain composure, and the Percivals hung
delightedly on her description of Ralph's composure and resource.

"I was terrified.  It was a dreadful sensation to feel the deck sinking beneath your feet on
one side, and to see it gradually rising above you on the other.  And all the bewildered, terrified
faces!  Ralph never turned a hair.  He told me that there was no danger so long as I kept clear
of the boat; he lifted me up in his arms as if I had been a doll."

The colour mounted to Darsie's white cheeks as she spoke, and a thrill of emotion tingled her
blood.  The first time she hears herself addressed as "darling" in a man's deep voice is one
that a girl cannot lightly forget.  She turned her head over her shoulder so as to be able
to see the entrance into the tent.

"Where is Ralph?"

"He will be here presently.  None of the men have come in yet.  Ralph will be so useful.  He
is as much at home in the water as on land.  He will be busy helping the others."

Mrs Percival spoke with happy assurance; nevertheless, she left Darsie's side and edged her
way through the crowd towards the open doorway, through which she ought now to be able to see
her son's return. As she was within a few yards of the entrance it was suddenly blocked by
a group of men--hatless, dripping, dishevelled, but in demeanour composed and cheery, as if
what had happened had been quite an enjoyable experience.

The foremost of the group greeted their friends with smiles and waving of hands.

"Hullo!  Hullo!  Here we are!  How are you feeling?  All serene now? Every one comfortably
on shore?  Got any tea left?"

"Is my son with you?  Have you seen my son--Ralph Percival?"

Mrs Percival spoke in a high, clear voice, at the sound of which a young undergrad. wheeled
round quickly towards his companions.

"By Jove--yes!  He was on board.  I thought we were all here.  Where's Percival?"

He dashed out of the tent, stood looking blankly around, turned a blanched face towards the tent.

Then from an inner corner of the tent another voice questioned sharply: "Mary!  Where's Mary--Mary
Everard?  She was with us--standing quite near.  Mary's not here!"

No one answered.  There was a breathless silence, while each man and woman in that crowded
tent was subtly, overpoweringly conscious of a new presence filling the atmosphere around--the
presence of Fear!  Heavy as a palpable presence it pressed upon them; it lapped them round;
the fumes of it mounted to their brains.

Months before, Darsie had listened while a woman who had been near San Francisco at the time
of the earthquake and fire endeavoured to describe what was in truth indescribable, how the
very air itself was at that time charged with a poignancy of agony--an impalpable spiritual
agony, apart from such physical cause as heat and fire, an agony which arose from the grief
of thousands of tortured hearts.

She had listened--interested, curious, pleased to nestle in her easy- chair, and ponder over
a novel thought; but at this terrible moment she had no need to ponder; realisation came sharp
and sure.  Tragedy was in the air; she inhaled it with every breath, tasted it, felt its heavy
hand.

With one accord the occupants of the tent streamed across the lawns towards the waterside,
where even now an informal inquiry was taking place.  The officials in charge of the ferry-boat
were defending themselves against their accusers.  Overcrowded?  The ferry-boat had been as
crowded on two previous days, and all had gone well.  It was impossible to account for the
accident.  Since no further harm than a few minutes' ducking had happened to the passengers,
the greater loss was on their own side.

To these officials, protesting, excusing, arrived in a mass a body of white-faced men and women,
demanding with one voice their lost--a young man, an undergraduate; tall, fair, in a white
flannel suit; last seen standing on the side of the boat helping to lower the women into the
water; a young girl, in a boating-dress of blue and white.  They were not among the rescued.
They had not been seen since the moment of the accident.

Where were they?

As Darsie stood, ghastly and shuddering, by the water brink, she was subconsciously aware of
a strong arm in hers.  Subconsciously also she was aware that the arm belonged to Dan Vernon,
but she had no time for look or word; her whole being was strung to one agonising thought.
Mr Percival supported his half-fainting wife; the two sisters clung together; the relations
of Mary Everard paced wildly to and fro.  On shore all was tumult and confusion, on the river
sunbeams sparkled, the stream was quiet and undisturbed.

"Percival was like a fish: Percival could have kept afloat for hours."

A voice separated itself from the confused babel, and struck on Darsie's ear, but even as her
heart leaped upward another voice spoke.  "It is not a case of swimming.  If he were not quick
enough in getting away--if he were caught beneath--penned!"

The strong arm gripped her more firmly still, steadied her trembling.  A fierce voice issued
an order for "Silence!  Silence!"

Margaret France came up with beautiful soft eyes and a beautiful soft voice.  She spoke wise,
tender words.  You were to come away--it was better so.  It would add to your friends' distress
if you were ill.  You were wet, cold.  You were to be sensible and come home.

Darsie looked at her thoughtfully for a long moment.  She was thinking that she loved Margaret
France, that she had taken a fancy to her the first evening at Newnham.  How droll and witty
she had been as an auctioneer!  Of the purport of her present words she had no comprehension.
She sighed and turned her face to the river.

"Leave her to me," said Dan's voice quietly.  "I will take care of her."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

They found them at sundown; the two young, fair bodies--the tall, pale lad, the slim, dark
maid--two cold effigies of youth, and health, and joy.  On Ralph's forehead was a deep red
mark, the mark of the blow which had given him a prey to the waters; but Mary's brown locks
floated round a sweet, untroubled face.

They bore them to the mortuary, and those who loved them sat and wept alone.  Darsie spent
the two following days with the stricken family, who found their one comfort in listening again
and again to the story of Ralph's brave end.  Weak and unstable in life, in death he had shown
a gallant front, and more than one of the unfortunate crew came forward to testify to his courageous
and selfless efforts on their behalf.

Mr Percival went about with a set face and shoulders bowed like those of an old man.  The girls
wept helplessly from morn till night; Mrs Percival lost in one night all lingering trace of
youth; she kept up bravely before her husband and daughters, but alone with Darsie her anguish
found vent.

"My son, my son!  He was so good to me--so loving and kind.  His faults were the faults of
youth, and, oh, Darsie, my, faults also!  We blamed him for faults which we had not tried to
check.  If he had lived and had been obliged to face life for himself he would have risen to
it, as he rose to that last great chance.  It takes a brave man to face death calmly.  He was
not weak or selfish then--my Ralph!  No one dared call him weak.  Thank God!  We were with
him to the end, we were happy together, and you were with him too.  That is what he would have
wished. He loved you, Darsie.  If he had lived, he would have wished you for his wife."

"Yes!" sighed Darsie, and laid her head gently on the other's knee.  In the silence which followed
she was acutely aware of the unspoken question which filled the air, acutely distressed that
she could not give the stricken mother the assurance for which she craved.

In Ralph's lifetime his friendship had brought Darsie as much pain as joy, and, though death
had wiped away all but tender recollections, even in this hour of grief and shock she did not
delude herself that she sorrowed for him with the deepest sorrow of all.  The anxious, pitiful
affection which she had felt for the man who leaned so heavily upon her was more that of a
sister than a wife.

Darsie stretched out her hand, found the chilly one of the poor mother, and leaning her soft
cheek over it, pressed it tenderly with her lips.

"You must let me be your third daughter!  We can talk about him together.  I can tell you about
this last year--every little tiny thing that he said and did.  You'll never be anxious about
him any more, dear, never afraid!  You will always be proud of your hero boy."

Mrs Percival sighed.  She was in too sensitive a mood not to realise the meaning of the girl's
lack of response, but the first pang of disappointment was followed by a thought full of comfort
to the sore mother-heart.

"I loved him best.  He was mine to the end!  No one loved him like his mother!"

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

BRIGHTER DAYS.

Six months passed by--months of grief and pain, and bitter, unavailing regret; of work and
play, of long summer days, and wintry fog and cold; of reviving happiness also, since, thank
God! joy returns like the spring, bringing back hope and joy to a darkened world.  There was
a place in Darsie's heart which would ever be consecrated to the memory of Ralph; but it was
not a foremost place--that most crushing of sorrows had been spared her; and when one not yet
twenty-one is living the healthiest and most congenial of lives, and is above all elevated
to the proud position of third-year girl, it would be as unnatural as wrong to dwell continually
upon a past grief.

At first Darsie felt shocked and ashamed when the old gay mood swept her off her balance, and
she found herself dancing, singing, and making merry as of yore, but her two mentors, Mrs Reeves
and Hannah Vernon, united to combat this impression.

"To bear a sorrow cheerfully is the only resignation worthy of the name!"  This was the older
woman's verdict; the younger preached the same precept in student vernacular--

"Why grizzle when you want to smile?  Pray, what good can you do yourself, or any one else,
by going about with a face like a fiddle? Remember Margaret France, and don't block up the
window to shut out the stars!  Let them twinkle for all they are worth, the blessed little
things.  They are tired of hiding behind the clouds.  You have a duty to the living as well
as to the dead; remember that!"

Yes, it was true.  Looking back over the last eight months Darsie realised what a debt of gratitude
she owed to relations and friends alike for their tenderness and forbearance.  It had been
hard on the home party to have the summer holidays clouded by the presence of a mourner who
shuddered at the sight of water, collapsed into tears at unexpected moments, and lived in a
condition of super-sensitiveness, ready as it seemed to be hurt by the most innocent word;
yet how gentle and patient they had been, every single one of them, down to Tim himself!  Mother
and father, of course, had been angels; one took it for granted that they would be, but who
could have believed in such consideration from the boys and girls.  Dear old Clemence!  What
a comfort she had been!  Darsie had often been inclined to think that, for sheer rest and soothing,
no one could compete with a plump, practical, matter-of-fact sister, who had no thought for
"ifs" or "whys," but was full of care to ensure your present physical well-being.  Then, if
for a moment Clemence seemed to fall short, there was Lavender, ready to pour out floods of
sympathy, to mingle her tears with yours, and listen to endless reminiscences.  As for the
boys, Harry and Russell forbore to tease, affected blindness to reddened eyes, and said, "Buck
up, old girl!" with real heartiness of feeling, while Tim was assiduous in the offer of sticky
sweets.

The Vernons, lucky creatures! went off en masse to Switzerland for July and August.  Darsie
morbidly told herself that they were anxious to avoid the depression of her own presence during
the chief holiday of the year.  She was, as she expressed it, "too proud to say so," but the
inward soreness made her so cold and abrupt in manner that her friends had good cause to reverse
the accusation.

With regard to Dan Vernon in especial there was a soreness at Darsie's heart.  During the first
days after the tragic happening Dan had been a tower of strength, always at hand to comfort,
support, and take every difficulty upon his own shoulders.  To outward appearance Darsie had
appeared oblivious of his presence, but subconsciously she had leaned on his strength with
a profound relief.  It was hard to have Dan withdraw into his shell just as she was beginning
to long for his presence; but he had withdrawn, and like most naturally shy and reticent people,
withdrawn farther than ever, as if in reaction from his unusual demonstration.

In hall itself the absence of Margaret France made a big blank.  Having passed her tripos with
a first class, Margaret had placidly returned home to help her mother in the house, and take
part in an ordinary social life.  "What a waste!" cried her Newnham acquaintances, but Margaret's
friends, remembering her own words on the subject, believed that she had chosen the better part.

With October came the return to Newnham, and for the first few weeks an access of grief and
depression.  It was hard to fall into the old life shorn of its greatest interest, to be reminded
of Ralph at every turn, to see his friends pass by, laughing and gay, while his place was blank.

Then it was that Darsie discovered the real tenderness of heart which lies beneath the somewhat
callous exterior of the college girl. Freshers, second-year girls, even austere thirds themselves,
combined to surround her with an atmosphere of kindness and consideration.  No word of sympathy
was ever spoken, but almost every hour of the day brought with it some fresh deed of comfort
and cheer.  Offerings of flowers, tendered by a friend, or laid anonymously on "burry" or coffin;
bags of fruit and cake, invitations galore, surprise visits to her own study, each in turn
bringing a gleam of brightness to the day.  Plain Hannah, too, dear old plain Hannah!  In the
midst of her grief Darsie was filled with amusement at Hannah's unique fashion of showing her
sympathy.  Hot water evidently commended itself to her mind as the ideal medium, for at a dozen
hours of the day and night the door of Darsie's study would open and Hannah would appear on
the threshold, steaming can in hand.  Early morning, eleven o'clock, before lunch, before tea,
before dinner, before cocoa, before bed, Hannah and her can never failed to appear.  For the
first half of the Michaelmas term Darsie might literally have been described as never out of
hot water.

And now it was the Lent term; eight months had passed by since the date of Ralph's death, and
it surely behoved Darsie to rise above her depression, and to throw herself once more into
the full, happy life of the house.  She was thankful to do it, thankful to welcome dawnings
of the old zest, to feel her feet involuntarily quicken to a dance, to discover herself singing
as she moved to and fro.  The winter had passed; spring was in the air.  It seemed right that
it should be in her heart also.

As usual in the Lent term, hockey was the one absorbing subject outside "shop," and Hannah
Vernon, now advanced to the lofty position of captain, had special reasons for welcoming her
friend's reviving spirits.

One chilly day in February she entered Darsie's study with a somewhat unusual request.

"The girls are getting restive, and think that it's quite time we had another fancy match.
They want me to arrange one on the spot.  It's so blighting to be told that one is so clever,
and looked to for inspiration.  Every idea forsakes one on the instant.  You've been hibernating
for an age, you ought to have lots stored up!"

"I haven't--I've grown hideously dull.  What did we have last?"

"Thicks against Thins!  Never shall I forget it!  To play forward padded with three separate
cushions, and with shawls wound round your limbs, is the sort of thing one rises to once in
a lifetime, but never twice.  I made an adorable fat woman!  The Thins had no spirit left in
them when they beheld my bulk.  I vote that we don't have anything that involves padding this
time.  One never knows one's luck."

"No-o!  I think we might hit on something more subtle," Darsie ruminated, with her eyes on
the ceiling.  Her reputation of being the Newnham belle remained unchallenged after two separate
incursions of Freshers.

As she sat before a "burry," clad in a blue, pinafore-like garment, from which emerged white
silk sleeves to match the collar and yoke, her hand absently turning over a pile of notebooks,
bound in green and blue and rose, she made a striking contrast to Hannah Vernon in a cinnamon
coat and skirt, built for wear by a cheap tailor on the principle of "there or thereabouts."
Even the notebooks reflected the personality of their owners, for the one which Hannah carried
was of the shiny black persuasion which seemed to proclaim that, being made for good solid
work, it disdained the affectation of beauty.  Plain Hannah's little eyes twinkled affectionately
at her old friend.  She detached a pencil from a chain which dangled by her side, and said
tentatively--

"Subtle--yes!  Good biz!  Let's have a Subtler by all means."

"I--was thinking--we might have something touching upon future possibilities.  I've not quite
got it yet, but something about brides and spinsters.  Future brides--budding brides--beautiful
brides."

"Easy enough to have adjectives for the brides.  Where do the spinsters come in?"

"Oh, one would have to infer--subtly, of course--that they would be spinsters!  That would
be adjective enough.  Embryo spinsters-- preparatory spinsters--p-p-probable spinsters.  I
have it!  I have it! `Possible Brides against Probable Spinsters!'"

"Ha!" ejaculated Hannah, and drew her forefinger slowly down her nose. "Good!  Top hole.  Amusin',
but--injudicious?  Shouldn't mind one rap myself; lead off the Probables with a cheer.  But,
I fear me, there'd be brickbats floating in the air.  How much would you take in coin of the
realm to go up to Vera Ruskin and invite her to play for the spinsters? Personally I'd rather
be excused."

"I'd volunteer as a start!  Love to do it!"

"Ye-es!  Just so.  Noble of you, no doubt; but unconvincing," returned Hannah dryly.  "No!
It's a fine suggestion in theory, but in practice I'm afraid it won't work.  I don't want to
imperil my popularity for good.  Think of something a trifle less searching!  Er--er--Slackers
against--against what?  Slackers against Swotters!  How would that do for a change?"

Darsie curled her little nose.

"Dull!  No scope.  How would you dress?"

"Oh-h!  The Swotters might have bandages round their heads, and study notebooks between play.
The Slackers would just--could just--"

"Just so!  `Could just'!  Too feeble, my dear!  It won't do.  What about worth and charm? 
Might make up something out of that.  Worth, solid worth, genuine worth--"

"Moral worth!"

"That's it!  Moral Worth against Charm, personal charm!  That'll do it. That'll do it!  Moral
Worth against Personal Charm.  Nobody can be offended at being asked to represent Moral Worth."

"They will, though!  The female heart is desperately wicked," returned Hannah shrewdly.  "But
if they do it's their own look-out.  We'll preserve a high and lofty tone, and be surprised!
Thanks awfully, old girl.  It's an adorable idea.  What price the Moral Worth costume--eh, what?"

The Hockey captain went off chuckling, and excitement ran high in the hockey world when the
thrilling announcement was posted that afternoon. "For which side shall I be asked to play?"
Forwards, Backs, and Goals alike agitated themselves over these questions, and, sad to relate,
Hannah proved a true prophet, for while an invitation from the `Personal Charm' captain aroused
smiles of delight, the implication of `Moral Worth' was but coldly received.

Darsie Garnett herself was conscious of an electric shock of the most unpleasant nature when,
but half an hour after the posting of the notice, the "Moral Worths" invited her to join their
ranks!  With all the determination in the world, she found it impossible to repress a start
of surprise, and was acutely conscious of smothered giggles of amusement from those around.
She accepted, of course, with protestations of delight, and ten minutes later found balm in
the shape of an invitation from the rival team.  The "Personal Charms" deplored Darsie's loss,
but considered it a masterpiece of diplomacy on the part of the "Moral Worth" captain to have
headed her team with the name of the Newnham Belle.  "No one could be snarkey after that!"

The two teams held committee meetings on the subject of costumes, which were kept a dead secret
until the hour for the match had arrived, when a large body of spectators awaited their arrival
on the ground, with expectations pleasantly excited.  The "Personal Charms" appeared first,
marching in pairs with heads erect, and stamped on each face that brilliant, unalterable, toothy
smile affected by actresses of inferior rank.  Each head was frizzed and tousled to about twice
its natural size, and crowned by an enormous topknot of blue ribbon.  White blouses and skirts,
blue belts, ties, and hose completed an attractive costume, and as a finishing touch, the handle
of the hockey-stick was embellished with a second huge blue bow.

From a spectacular point of view the "Personal Charms" were certainly an unusually attractive
spectacle, but as regards popularity with the "field," they fell far behind the rival team.
The "Moral Worths" allowed a judicious time to elapse after the appearance of the "Personal
Charms," and then, just as the spectators were beginning to wax impatient, excitement was aroused
by the appearance of a white banner, borne proudly aloft in the arms of two brawny Forwards.
Printed on the banner were two lines of poetry, which at nearer view proved to be a highly
appropriate adaptation--

  "Be good, sweet maid,
  And let who will be charming!"

Certainly the "Moral Worths" had been at pains to disguise any charm they possessed!  Even
Darsie herself looked plain with her hair dragged back into a tight little knot, her grey flannel
shirt padded into the similitude of stooping shoulders, her skirt turned carefully back to
front.  With lumping gait and heavy footsteps the team marched round the field, and drew up
beside the beaming "Personal Charms," who despite the blasts of easterly wind through summer
muslin blouses, continued to smile, and smile, and smile.

Throughout the heated game which followed the "Moral Worths" were distinctly the favourite
team; nevertheless, it is the deplorable truth that the "Personal Charms" won at a canter,
despite the handicap of their beribboned sticks.

When, tired and muddy, Darsie reached her study again, it was to find a postcard from Lavender
which a kindly Fresher had laid upon her "burry." It bore but a few words written in large
characters, and plentifully underlined--

"Which team were you asked to play for?"

What a glow of satisfaction it gave one to be able to reply, truthfully and accurately, with
one short, illuminating--"Both!"

Among the other joys of the last terms, one shone out pre-eminent in Darsie Garnett's estimation.
She was Prime Minister!  It seemed almost too splendid to be true!  She, who three years before
had made her first appearance at Political as the bashful representative of Bootle-cum- Linacre,
to have advanced to this dizzy height of power!  To be captain of the Hockey Club paled into
insignificance before this crowning honour, but as Hannah was "Speaker," Darsie was unable
to crow as loudly as she would have done if her friend's place had been below the gangway.

Political was held in College Hall on Monday evenings at eight o'clock, and in old-fashioned
style the members were divided into three parties, Conservatives, Liberals, and Unionists,
whose seats were so arranged as to form three sides of a square.

Viewed from afar there was a strong element of humour about this mock Parliament.  Prophetic
it might be, but it was distinctly droll to hear Honourable Members addressed as "Madam," while
some of the statutes embodied in the Constitution-book were quite deliciously unexpected, the
special one, which ran, "Members occupying the front benches are requested not to darn stockings
during Political" being a constant source of delight to parents and friends.

Darsie was a Liberal.  Members of the Opposition accused her openly of Socialism.  What! shall
we sacrifice our brother man for the sake of the demon gold? she would declaim with waving
hands and cheeks aflame, whereat the Liberals would cheer as one girl, and even the Conservatives
themselves be moved to admiration.

Debates relating to Education, Suffrage, and the House of Lords were held during the winter
months, but the crowning excitement followed a daring Bill introduced by the Liberal party
for the abolishment of the Unionists in toto, on the ground that, being neither fish, flesh,
nor good red herring, they acted but as a drag on the wheels of progress. The benches were
crowded to their fullest capacity on the occasion of this historic debate; even the Dons themselves
came in to listen, and the whips flew round the corridors, giving no quarter to the few skulkers
discovered at work in their studies, until they also were forced into the breach.  As a result,
the Unionist party, supported by Moderates on both sides, achieved a brilliant and decisive
victory.

So much for Political, but the Prime Minister occupied another proud position, for Margaret
France's prophecy had been fulfilled, and Darsie was now captain of the Clough Fire Brigade.
Beneath her were two lieutenants, and two companies, each seven girls strong, and the duty
of choosing times of the utmost inconvenience and unpreparedness for drill alarms rested entirely
at her discretion.  When the fire-bell rang, every member of the brigade must leave whatever
she happened to be about, and dash pell-mell to the assembling-ground on an upper story. There
the force ranked up in order, the captain explained the locality and nature of the supposed
conflagration, and each "man" received "his" own instruction--one to shut windows and ventilators,
and so diminish draughts, another to uncoil the hose, a third to affix the nozzle, and so on.
The work was accomplished, examined by the authorities, and the "men" were back on the top
landing, ranked up in their original order, in an incredibly short space of time, when the
captain gave a sharp criticism of the performance, followed by a few questions to test the
general knowledge of the staff: Where was Mary Murray's study?  What was its aspect?  What
was the nearest water supply?  Etcetera.

One excuse for non-attendance, and one only, was allowed to pass muster--a member who chanced
to be in a hot bath what time the bell rang forth the alarm might lie at ease and smile at
the scurry without, health and the risk of chill being considered before imaginary dangers.
If, however, the bath were cold, out she must get, dash into the coat and skirt which, for
members of the fire brigade, supplanted the ordinary dressing-gown, and take her place with
the rest.

Nor--with Darsie Garnett as captain--was it any use to attempt deception, as a tired little
Fresher discovered to her cost, when she naughtily turned a warm stream into her cold bath
and refused to budge. No sooner were lightning-like instructions rapped out upstairs than down
flew the irate captain, rapped at the door, demanded admission, and--in the absence of steam
upon the wall--sentenced the cringing truant to a month's suspension of privileges.

Nor was Darsie's own position free from anxiety, for once in a term it was the prerogative
of the brigade to surprise the captain, and woe befall her prestige if, on that occasion, she
were found wanting!  Coat, skirt, and slippers lay nightly on a chair by her bedside, together
with the inevitable pile of notebooks, and she felt a burden off her mind when the alarm had
come and gone.

Deep, deep down in the recesses of Darsie's mind there slumbered a fell ambition.  If there
could be a real fire before her term of office expired!  Not a serious one, of course--nothing
to imperil the safety of the dear old house, but just sufficient to cause a real alarm, and
give the brigade an opportunity of demonstrating its powers!  It was almost too aggravating
to be borne, to hear one morning that a second- year girl had indulged in a study fire, and
had extinguished it of her own accord.  Extinguished by private effort, when a captain, two
lieutenants, and fourteen "men" were languishing for an opportunity to exhibit their powers!
The captain spoke sternly to the second-year girl, and rebuked her.

"How," she demanded, "can you expect a reliable force, if precious opportunities are to be
wasted like this?  Curtains ablaze, and the bedclothes singeing.  We may wait for years for
another such opportunity!"

"But where do I come in?" cried the second-year girl.  "I gave ten and sixpence for that quilt.
And a jug of water standing close at hand!  It was only human nature--"

"I hope," returned the captain of the Fire Brigade icily--"I hope that is not the spirit in
which you propose to go through life.  It's a poor thing if you cannot sacrifice a ten-and-sixpenny
quilt in the interest of the public good."  And she stalked majestically from the room.

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

TRIPOS WEEK.

The Tripos week!  Every third-year girl felt as if life and death trembled in the balance during
those eventful days.  They woke on the Monday morning with much the same feeling as that of
a patient who expects to have an arm amputated at eleven, and is morally convinced that she
will sink beneath the strain, and when at seven o'clock a second-year friend crept into the
study, tray in hand, and administered sympathising cups of tea, the final touch was given to
the illusion.

Darsie quailed before the prospect of those three-hour papers. Experience had proved that she
was not at her best in examinations; imaginative people rarely are, since at the critical moment
the brain is apt to wander off on dire excursions into the future, envisaging the horrors of
failing, instead of buckling to work in order to ensure success.  Historical French Grammar
in especial loomed like a pall, and she entered the Mission Room at Saint Columba's with the
operation-like feeling developed to its acutest point.

For several minutes after taking the first paper in her hand Darsie found it impossible to
decipher the words.  The type danced mistily before her eyes; and when at last letters shaped
themselves out of the confusion, the last state was worse than the first, for she was convinced--drearily,
hopelessly convinced--that she could not answer a single question out of the number.

She laid down the paper, and steadied herself resolutely.  All over the room other girls were
sitting on hard, uncomfortable chairs before tables like her own, some motionless and stunned-looking
like herself, some already setting briskly to work.  On the walls, among a number of quotations,
"Help one another!" stared her in the face with tragic significance, and again: "How far high
failure overleaps the bounds of low successes."  Failure!  She lifted the paper again, and
decided with a glimmer of hope that she could answer at least one question, set to work, and
scribbled for life until the last moment of the prescribed three hours!  What exhaustion! 
What collapse!  Positively one's legs wobbled beneath one as one trailed wearily Newnhamwards.
What a comfort to be fussed over and petted, treated as distinguished invalids whom the College
was privileged to tend!

The Tripos girls "sat at High" at the head of the room, surrounded by attentive Dons, with
the V.C. herself smiling encouragement, and urging them to second helpings of chicken (chicken!!).
By the time that it was necessary to start forth for the afternoon's ordeal they felt mentally
and physically braced, and the operation feeling lessened sensibly.

At the afternoon's ordeal, however, the weariness and depression grew more acute than ever,
and on the walk home the comparing of answers had anything but a cheering effect.  No girl
was satisfied; each was morally convinced that her companions had done better than herself.
Where she had failed to answer a question, a reminder of the solution filled her with despair.
Of course!  It was as simple as ABC.  She had known it off by heart.  Nothing short of softening
of the brain could explain such idiotic forgetfulness.

It was a kindly custom which separated the sufferers on their return to College, each one being
carried off by her special second-year adorer to a cheery little tea-party, for which the most
congenial spirits and the most delectable fare were provided.  Here the tired senior was soothed
and fed, and her self-esteem revived by an attitude of reverence on the part of the audience.
The second-year girls shuddered over the papers; were convinced that never, no never, could
they face the like, and suggested that it would be a saving of time to go down at once.

Later on that first evening, when Marian White appeared to put her invalid to bed, she bore
in her hand a letter from Margaret France, which Darsie hailed with a cry of joy.

"Ah!  I thought she would write to me.  I wondered that I didn't have a letter this morning,
but she was right as usual.  She knew I should need it more to-night!"

Margaret's letter was short and to the point--

"Dearest Darsie,--A year ago you were cheering me!  How I wish I could do the same for you
in your need, but as I can't be present in the flesh, here comes a little line to greet you,
old dear, and to tell you to be of good cheer.  You are very tired, and very discouraged, and
very blue.  I know!  Every one is.  It's part of the game.  Do you remember what a stern mentor
I had, and how she bullied me, and packed me to bed, and took away my books?  Oh, the good
old times!  The good old times, how happy we were--how I think of them now, and long to be
back!  But the best part remains, for I have still my friend, and you and I, Darsie, `belong'
for our lives.

"Cheer up, old dear!  You've done a lot better than you think!

"Margaret."

"What's the matter now?" asked the second-year girl sharply, spying two big tears course slowly
down her patient's cheeks, and Darsie returned a stammering reply--

"I've had such a ch-ch-cheering letter!"

"Have you indeed!  The less of that sort of cheering you get this week, the better for you!"
snapped Marian once more.  She was jealous of Margaret France, as she was jealous of every
girl in the College for whom Darsie Garnett showed a preference, and she strongly resented
any interference with her own prerogative.  "Hurry into your dressing-gown, please, and I'll
brush your hair," she said now in her most dictatorial tones.  "I'm a pro. at brushing hair--a
hair-dresser taught me how to do it.  You hold the brush at the side to begin with, and work
gradually round to the flat.  I let a Fresher brush mine one right when I'd a headache, and
she began in the middle of my cheek.  There's been a coldness between us ever since.  There!
isn't that good?  Gets right into the roots, doesn't it, and tingles them up!  Nothing so soothing
as a smooth, hard brush."

Darsie shut her eyes and purred like a sleek, lazy little cat.

"De-lic-ious!  Lovely!  You do brush well!  I could sit here for hours."

"You won't get a chance.  Ten minutes at most, and then off you go, and not a peep at another
book till to-morrow morning."

"Marian--really--I must!  Just for ten minutes, to revive my memory."

"I'll tell you a story!" said Marian quietly--"a true story from my own experience.  It was
when I was at school and going in for the Cambridge Senior, the last week, when we were having
the exams.  We had slaved all the term, and were at the last gasp.  The head girl was one Annie
Macdiarmid, a marvel of a creature, the most all-round scholar I've ever met.  She was invariably
first in everything, and I usually came in a bad third.  Well, we'd had an arithmetic exam,
one day, pretty stiff, but not more so than usual, and on this particular morning at eleven
o'clock we were waiting to hear the result.  The Mathematic Master was a lamb--so keen, and
humorous, and just--a rageur at times, but that was only to be expected.  He came into the
room, papers in hand, his mouth screwed up, and his eyebrows nearly hidden under his hair.
We knew at a glance that something awful had happened.  He cleared his throat several times,
and began to read aloud the arithmetic results.  `Total, a hundred.  Bessie Smith, eighty-seven.'
There was a rustle of surprise.  Not Annie Macdiarmid?  Just Bessie--an ordinary sort of creature,
who wasn't going in for the Local at all.  `Mary Ross, eighty-two.  Stella Bruce, seventy-four.'
Where did I come in?  I'd never been lower than that.  `Kate Stevenson, sixty-four.'  Some
one else fifty, some one else forty, and thirty and twenty, and still not a mention of Annie
Macdiarmid or of me.  You should have seen her face!  I shall never forget it.  Green! and
she laced her fingers in and out, and chewed, and chewed.  I was too stunned to feel.  The
world seemed to have come to an end.  Down it came--sixteen, fourteen, ten-- and then at last--at
bitter, long last--`Miss Marian White, six!  Miss Macdiar-mid, Two!'"

Darsie stared beneath the brush, drawing a long breath of dismay.

"What did you do?"

"Nothing!  That was where he showed himself so wise.  An ordinary master would have raged and
stormed, insisted upon our working for extra hours, going over and over the old ground, but
he knew better.  He just banged all the books together, tucked them under his arm, and called
out: `No more work!  Put on your hats and run off home as fast as you can go, and tell your
mothers from me to take you to the Waxworks, or a Wild Beast show.  Don't dare to show yourselves
in school again until Monday morning.  Read as many stories as you please, but open a school
book at your peril!'"

Marian paused dramatically, Darsie peered at her through a mist of hair, and queried weakly,
"Well?"

"Well--so we didn't!  We just slacked and lazed, and amused ourselves till the Monday morning,
and then, like giants refreshed, we went down to the fray and--"

"And what?"

"I've told you before!  I got second-class honours, and the Macdiarmid came out first in all
England, distinction in a dozen subjects-- arithmetic among them.  So now, Miss Garnett, kindly
take the moral to heart, and let me hear no more nonsense about `reviving memories.' Your memory
needs putting to sleep, so that it may wake up refreshed and active after a good night's rest."

And Darsie weakly, reluctantly obeyed.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

FAREWELL TO NEWNHAM.

May week followed hard on the Tripos that year, but Darsie took no part in the festivities.
The remembrance of the tragic event of last summer made her shrink from witnessing the same
scenes, and in her physically exhausted condition she was thankful to stay quietly in college.
Moreover, a sad task lay before her in the packing up her belongings, preparatory to bidding
adieu to the beloved little room which had been the scene of so many joys and sorrows during
the last three years.

Vie Vernon, as a publicly engaged young lady, was paying a round of visits to her fiance's
relations, but Mr and Mrs Vernon had come up as usual, arranging to keep on their rooms, so
that they might have the satisfaction of being in Cambridge when the Tripos List came out.
With a son like Dan and a daughter like Hannah, satisfaction was a foregone conclusion; calm,
level-headed creatures both of them, who were not to be flurried or excited by the knowledge
of a critical moment, but most sanely and sensibly collected their full panoply of wits to
turn them to good account.

Hannah considered it in the last degree futile to dread an exam.  "What else," she would demand
in forceful manner--"what else are you working for?  For what other reason are you here?" 
But her arguments, though unanswerable, continued to be entirely unconvincing to Darsie and
other nervously constituted students.

The same difference of temperament showed itself in the manner of waiting for results.  Dan
and Hannah, so to speak, wiped their pens after the writing of the last word of the last paper,
and there and then resigned themselves to their fate.  They had done their best; nothing more
was possible in the way of addition or alteration--for good or ill the die was cast.  Then
why worry?  Wait quietly, and take what came along!

Blessed faculty of common sense!  A man who is born with such a temperament escapes half the
strain of life, though it is to be doubted whether he can rise to the same height of joy as
his more imaginative neighbour, who lies awake shivering at the thought of possible ills, and
can no more "wait quietly" for a momentous decision than he could breathe with comfort in a
burning house.

When the morning arrived on which the results of the Tripos were to be posted on the door of
the Senate House, Darsie and Hannah had taken a last sad farewell of their beloved Newnham,
and were ensconced with Mr and Mrs Vernon in their comfortable rooms.  The lists were expected
to appear early in the morning, and the confident parents had arranged a picnic "celebration"
party for the afternoon.

Darsie never forgot that morning--the walk to the Senate House with Dan and Hannah on either
side, the sight of the waiting crowd, the strained efforts at conversation, the dragging hours.

At long last a list appeared--the men's list only: for the women's a further wait would be
necessary.  But one glance at the paper showed Dan's name proudly ensconced where every one
had expected it would be, and in a minute he was surrounded by an eager throng--congratulating,
cheering, shaking him by the hand.  He looked quiet as ever, but his eyes shone, and when Darsie
held out her hand he gripped it with a violence which almost brought the tears to her eyes.

The crowd cleared away slowly, the women students retiring to refresh themselves with luncheon
before beginning a second wait.  The Vernons repaired to their rooms and feasted on the contents
of the hamper prepared for the picnic, the father and mother abeam with pride and satisfaction,
Dan obviously filled with content, and dear old Hannah full of quips.  Darsie felt ashamed
of herself because she alone failed to throw off anxiety; but her knees would tremble, her
throat would parch, and her eyes would turn back restlessly to study the clock.

  "Better to die by sudden shock,
  Than perish piecemeal on the rock!"

The old couplet which as a child she had been used to quote darted back into her mind with
a torturing pang.  How much longer of this agony could she stand?  Anything, anything would
be better than this dragging on in suspense, hour after hour.  But when once again the little
party approached the Senate House, she experienced a swift change of front. No, no, this was
not suspense; it was hope!  Hope was blessed and kindly.  Only certainty was to be dreaded,
the grim, unalterable fact.

The little crowd of girls pressed forward to read the lists.  Darsie peered with the rest,
but saw nothing but a mist and blur.  Then a voice spoke loudly by her side; Hannah's voice:

"First Class!  Hurrah!"

Whom did she mean?  Darsie's heart soared upward with a dizzy hope, her eyes cleared and flashed
over the list of names.  Hannah Vernon--Mary Bates--Eva Murray--many names, but not her own.

The mist and the blur hid the list once more, she felt an arm grip her elbow, and Dan's voice
cried cheerily--

"A Second Class!  Good for you, Darsie!  I thought you were going to fail."

It was a relief.  Not a triumph; not the proud, glad moment of which she had dreamed, but a
relief from a great dread.  The girls congratulated her, wrung her hand, cried, "Well done!"
and wished her luck; third- class girls looked envious and subdued; first-class girls in other
"shops" whispered in her ear that it was an acknowledged fact that Modern Languages had had
an uncommonly stiff time this year.  Modern Languages who had themselves gained a first class,
kept discreetly out of the way.  Hannah said, "See, I was right!  Are you satisfied now?" No
one showed any sign of disappointment.  Perhaps no one but herself had believed in the possibility
of a first class.

The last band of students turned away from the gates with a strange reluctance.  It was the
last, the very last incident of the dear old life--the happiest years of life which they had
ever known, the years which from this moment would exist but as a memory.  Even the most successful
felt a pang mingling with their joy, as they turned their backs on the gates and walked quietly
away.

Later that afternoon Dan and Darsie found themselves strolling across the meadows towards Grantchester.
They were alone, for, the picnic having fallen through, Mr and Mrs Vernon had elected to rest
after the day's excitement, and Hannah had settled herself down to the writing of endless letters
to relations and friends, bearing the good news of the double honours.

Darsie's few notes had been quickly accomplished, and had been more apologetic than jubilant
in tone, but she honestly tried to put her own feelings in the background, and enter into Dan's
happiness as he confided to her his plans for the future.

"I'm thankful I've come through all right--it means so much.  I'm a lucky fellow, Darsie. 
I've got a rattling opening, at the finest of the public schools, the school I'd have chosen
above all others.  Jenson got a mastership there two years ago--my old coach, you remember!
He was always good to me, thought more of me than I deserved, and he spoke of me to the Head.
There's a vacancy for a junior master next term.  They wrote to me about it.  It was left open
till the lists came out, but now I now it will go through.  I'm safe for it now."

"Oh, Dan, I'm so glad; I'm so glad for you!  You've worked so hard that you deserve your reward.
A mastership, and time to write--that's your ambition still?  You are still thinking of your book?"

"Ah, my book!"  Dan's dark eyes lightened, his rugged face shone.  It was easy to see how deeply
that book of the future had entered into his life's plans.  He discussed it eagerly as they
strolled across the fields, pointing out the respects in which it differed from other treatises
of the kind; and Darsie listened, and sympathised, appreciated to the extent of her abilities,
and hated herself because, the more absorbed and eager Dan grew, the more lonely and dejected
became her own mood.  Then they talked of Hannah and her future.  With so good a record she
would have little difficulty in obtaining her ambition in a post as mathematical mistress at
a girls' school.  It would be hard on Mrs Vernon to lose the society of both her daughters,
but she was wise enough to realise that Hannah's metier was not for a domestic life, and unselfish
enough to wish her girls to choose the most congenial roles.

"And my mother will still have three at home, three big, incompetent girls!" sighed Darsie
in reply, and her heart swelled with a sudden spasm of rebellion.  "Oh, Dan, after all my dreams!
I'm so bitterly disappointed.  Poor little second-class me!"

"Don't, Darsie!" cried Dan sharply.  He stood still, facing her in the narrow path, but now
the glow had gone from his face; it was twisted with lines of pain and anxiety.  "Darsie! it's
the day of my life, but it's all going to fall to pieces if you are sad!  You've done your
best, and you've done well, and if you are a bit disappointed that you've failed for a first
yourself, can't you--can't you take any comfort out of mine?  It's more than half your own.
I'd never have got there by myself!"

"Dan, dear, you're talking nonsense!  What nonsense you talk!  What have I done?  What could
I do for a giant like you?"

Dan brushed aside the word with a wave of the hand.

"Do you remember when we were talking last year, beside the fire, in the old study one afternoon,
when all the others were out, talking about poor Percival, and your answer to a question I
asked?  `He needs me, Dan!' you said.  I argued very loftily about the necessity of a man standing
alone and facing his difficulties by himself, and you said that was true, but only a part of
the truth.  I've found that out for myself since then.  If that was true of Percival, it is
fifty times truer of me!  I need you, Darsie!  I shall always need you.  I've not a penny-
piece in the world, except what my father allows me.  I shall probably always be poor.  For
years to come I shall be grinding away as a junior master.  Even when the book is written it
can never bring much return in a monetary sense, but success will come in the end, I'll make
it come! And when it does, it will belong to you as much as to me.  You'll remember that?"

"Yes...  Thank you, Dan!"  The answer came in a breathless gasp. Darsie's big eyes were fixed
upon Dan's face in rapt, incredulous gaze. The cramp of loneliness had loosened from her heart;
the depression had vanished; a marvellous new interest had entered into her life; she was filled
with a beatific content.

"I'll remember!  I'll be proud to remember.  But--I don't understand!"

"I don't understand myself," said Dan simply.  "I only know it is true. So don't get low, Darsie,
and don't be discouraged.  You're in a class by yourself, and all the honours in the world
couldn't improve you.  And now that's over, and we start afresh!"

It was like Dan to hurry back with all speed to more practical talk. Darsie understood, and
was satisfied.  They stood together for another moment looking back on the massed towers and
spires of Cambridge, then slowly, reluctantly, turned away.

A new life lay ahead, its outline vague and undefined like that of the landscape around, but
the sun was shining.  It shone full on their young faces, as they went forward, hand in hand.

THE END.