"You see--that was the sort of moonshine I started in to live. Two or three times I was a grievous
disappointment to my people, and once or twice, perhaps, I was disappointed myself. I was never
quite sure what I wanted. But if you think I was consistently mercenary you are mistaken. I
shall tell you something more--something no one knows. There was a man I met while that ideal
was still strong and beautiful to me--but after I'd come to see that here, in this life, it
was not easily to be kept. He was older than I, experienced with women--a lover of women, I
came to understand in time. I was a novelty to him, a fresh recreation--he enjoyed all those
romantic ideals of mine. I thought then he loved me, and I worshipped him. He was married,
but constantly said he was about to leave his wife, so she would divorce him. I promised to
come to him when it was done. He had married for money and he would have been poor again. I
didn't mind in the least. I tell you this to show you that I could have loved a poor man, not
only well enough to marry him, but to break with the traditions, and brave the scandal of going
to him in that common way. With all I felt for him I should have been more than satisfied.
But I came in time to see that he was not as earnest as I had been. He wasn't capable of feeling
what I felt. He was more cowardly than I--or rather, I was more reckless than he. I suspected
it a long time; I became convinced of it a year ago and a little over. He became hateful to
me. I had wasted my love. Then he became funny. But--you see--I am not altogether what you
believed me. Wait a bit longer, please.

"Then I gave up, almost--and later, I gave up entirely. And when my brother was about to marry
that woman, and Mr. Shepler asked me to marry him, I consented. It seemed an easy way to end
it all. I'd quit fondling ideals. And you had told me I must do anything I could to keep Fred
from marrying that woman--my people came to say the same thing--and so--"

"If he had married her--if they were married now--then you would feel free to marry me?"

"You would still be the absurdest man in New York--but we can't discuss that. He isn't going
to marry her."

"But he has married her--"

"What do you mean?"

"I supposed you knew--Oldaker told me as I left the hotel. He and your father were witnesses.
The marriage took place this afternoon at the Arlingham."

"You're not deceiving me?"

"Come, come!--girl!"

"Oh, pardon me! please! Of course I didn't mean it--but you stunned me. And papa said nothing
to me about it before he left. The money must have been too great a temptation to him and to
Fred. She has just made some enormous amount in copper stock or something."

"I know, she had better advice than I had. I'd like to reward the man who gave it to her."

"And I was sure you were going to marry that other woman."

"How could you think so?"

"Of course I'm not the least bit jealous--it isn't my disposition; but I did think Florence
Akemit wasn't the woman to make you happy--of course I liked her immensely--and there were
reports going about--everybody seemed so sure--and you were with her so much. Oh, how I did
hate her!"

"I tell you she is a joke and always was."

"It's funny--that's exactly what I told Aunt Cornelia about that--that man."

"Let's stop joking, then."

"How absurd you are--with my plans all made and the day set--"

There was a knock at the door. He went over and unlocked it. Jarvis was there.

"Mr. Shepler, Miss Avice."

They looked at each other.

"Jarvis, shut that door and wait outside."

"Yes, Mr. Bines."

"You can't see him."

"But I must,--we're engaged, don't you understand?--of course I must!"

"I tell you I won't let you. Can't you understand that I'm not talking idly?"

She tried to evade him and reach the door, but she was caught again in his arms--held close to him.

"If you like he shall come in now. But he's not going to take you away from me, as he did in
that jeweller's the other night--and you can't see him at all except as you are now."

She struggled to be free.

"Oh, you're so brutal!"

"I haven't begun yet--"

He drew her toward the door.

"Oh, not that--don't open it--I'll tell him--yes, I will!"

"I'm taking no more chances, and the time is short."

Still holding her closely with one arm, he opened the door. The man stared impassively above
their heads--a graven image of unconsciousness.

"Jarvis."

"Yes, sir."

"Miss Milbrey wishes you to say to Mr. Shepler that she is engaged--"

"That I'm ill," she interrupted, still making little struggles to twist from his grasp, her
head still bent down.

"That she is engaged with Mr. Bines, Jarvis, and can't see him. Say it that way--'Miss Milbrey
is engaged with Mr. Bines, and can't see you.'".

"Yes, sir!"

He remained standing motionless, as he had been, his eyes still fixed above them. But the eyes
of Jarvis, from long training, did hot require to be bent upon those things they needed to
observe. They saw something now that was at least two feet below their range.

The girl made a little move with her right arm, which was imprisoned fast between them, and
which some intuition led her captor not to restrain. The firm little hand worked its way slowly
up, went creepingly over his shoulder and bent tightly about his neck.

"Yes, sir," repeated Jarvis, without the quiver of an eyelid, and went.

He closed the door with his free hand, and they stood as they were until they heard the noise
of the front door closing and the soft retreating footsteps of the butler.

"Oh, you were mean--mean--to shame me so," and floods of tears came again.

"I hated to do it, but I had to; it was a critical moment. And you couldn't have made up your
mind without it."

She sobbed weakly in his arms, but her own arm was still tight about his neck. He felt it for
the first time.

"But I had made up my mind--I did make it up while we talked."

They were back on the couch. He held her close and she no longer resisted, but nestled in his
arms with quick little sighs, as if relieved from a great strain. He kissed her forehead and
hair as she dried her eyes.

"Now, rest a little. Then we shall go."

"I've so much to tell you. That day at the jeweller's--well, what could I do but take one poor
last little look of you--to keep?"

"Tell me if you care for me."

"Oh, I do, I do, I do care for you. I have--ever since that day we walked in the woods. I do,
I do!"

She threw her head back and gave him her lips.

She was crying again and trying to talk.

"I did care for you, and that day I thought you were going to say something, but you didn't--you
were so distant and troubled, and seemed not even to like me--though I felt sure you loved
me. I had thought you were going to tell me, and I'd have accepted--yes, for the money--though
I liked you so much. Why, when I first met you in that mine and thought you were a workman,
I'm not sure I wouldn't have married you if you had asked me. But it was different again when
I found out about you. And that day in the woods I thought something had come between us. Only
after dinner you seemed kinder, and I knew at once you thought better of me, and might even
seek me--I knew it in the way a woman knows things she doesn't know at all. I went into the
library with a candle to look into the mirror, almost sure you were going to come. Then I heard
your steps and I was so glad--but it wasn't you-I'd been mistaken again-you still disliked
me. I was so disappointed and hurt and heartsick, and he kissed me and soothed me. And after
that directly I saw through him, and I knew I truly did love you just as I'd wanted to love
the man who would be my husband--only all that nonsense about money that had been dinned into
me so long kept me from seeing it at first. But I was sure you didn't care for me when they
talked so about you, and that--you never did care for her, did you--you couldn't have cared
for her, could you?--and yet, after that night, I'd such a queer little feeling as if you had
come for me, and had seen--"

"Surely a gentleman never sees anything he wasn't meant to see."

"I'm so glad--I should have been so ashamed--"

They were still a moment, while he stroked her hair.

"They'll be turning in early to-night, having to get up to-morrow and preach sermons--what
a dreary place heaven must be compared with this!"

She sat up quickly.

"Oh, I'd forgotten. How awful it is. Isn't it awful?"

"It will soon be over."

"But think of my people, and what's expected of me--think of Mr. Shepler."

"Shepler's doing some hard thinking for himself by this time."

"Really, you're a dreadful person--"

There was a knock.

"The cabman outside, sir, says how long is he to wait, sir?"

"Tell him to wait all night if I don't come; tell him if he moves off that spot I'll have his
license taken away. Tell him I'm the mayor's brother."

"Yes, sir."

"And, Jarvis, who's in the house besides you?"

"Miss Briggs, the maid, sir--but she's just ready to go out, sir."

"Stop her--say Miss Milbrey wishes to ask a favour of her; and Jarvis."

"Yes, sir!"

"Go put on that neat black street coat of yours that fits you so beautifully in the back, and
a purple cravat, and your shiny hat, and wait for us with Briggs. We shall want you in a moment."

"Yes, Mr. Bines."

She looked at him wonderingly.

"We need two witnesses, you know. I learned that from Oldaker just now."

"But do give me a moment, everything is all so whirling and hazy."

"Yes, I know--like the solar system in its nebulous state. Well, hurry and make those worlds
take shape. I can give you sixty seconds to find that I'm the North Star. Ach! I have the Doctor
von Herzlich been ge-speaking with--come, come! What's the use of any more delay? I've wasted
nearly three hours here now, dilly-dallying along. But then, a woman never does know her own mind.

"Put a thing before her--all as plain as the multiplication table--and she must use up just
so much good time telling a man that he's crazy--and shedding tears because he won't admit
that two times two are thirty-seven." She was silent and motionless for another five minutes,
thinking intently. "Come, time's up."

She arose.

"I'm ready. I shall marry you, if you think I'm the woman to help you in that big, new life
of yours. They meant me not to know about Fred's marriage until afterward."

He kissed her.

"I feel so rested and quiet now, as if I'd taken down a big old gate and let the peace rush
in on me. I'm sure it's right. I'm sure I can help you."

She picked up her hat and gloves.

"Now I'll go bathe my eyes and fix my hair."

"I can't let you out of my sight, yet. I'm incredulous. Perhaps in seventy-five or eighty years--"

"I thought you were so sure."

"While I can reach you, yes."

She gave a low, delicious little laugh. She reached both arms up around him, pulled down his
head and kissed him.

"There--boy!"

She took up the hat again.

"I'll be down in a moment."

"I'll be up in three, if you're not."

When she had gone he picked up an envelope and put a bill inside.

"Jarvis," he called.

The butler came up from below, dressed for the street.

"Jarvis, put this envelope in the inside of that excellent black coat of yours and hand it--afterward--to
the gentleman we're going to do business with."

"Yes, Mr. Bines."

"And put your cravat down in the back, Jarvis--it makes you look excited the way it is now."

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir!"

"Is Briggs ready?"  "She's waiting, sir."

"Go out and get in the carriage, both of you."

"Yes, sir!"

He stood in the hallway waiting for her. It was a quarter-past ten. In another moment she rustled
softly down to him.

"I'm trusting so much to you, and you're trusting so much to me. It's such a rash step!"

"Must I--"

"No, I'm going. Couldn't we stop and take Aunt Cornelia?"

"Aunt Cornelia won't have a chance to worry about this until it's all over. We'll stop there
then, if you like."

"We'll try Doctor Prendle, then. He's almost sure to be in."

"It won't make any difference if he isn't. We'll find one. Those horses are rested. They can
go all night if they must."

"I have Grandmother Loekermann's wedding-ring--of course you didn't fetch one. Trust a man
to forget anything of importance."

His grasp of her hand during the ride did not relax.

CHAPTER XLI.

The New Argonauts

Mrs. van Geist came flustering out to the carriage.

"You and Briggs may get out here, Jarvis. There, that's for you, and that's for Briggs--and
thank you both very much!"

"Child, child! what does it mean?"

"Mr. Bines is my husband, Muetterchen, and we're leaving for the West in the morning."

The excitement did not abate for ten minutes or so.  "And do say something cheerful, dear,"
pleaded Avice, at parting.

"You mad child--I was always afraid you might do something like this; but I will say I'm not
altogether sure you've acted foolishly."

"Thank you, you dear old Muetterchen! and you'll come to see us--you shall see how happy I
can be with this--this boy--this Lochinvar, Junior--I'm sure Mrs. Lochinvar always lived happily
ever after."

Mrs. Van Geist kissed them both.

"Back to Thirty-seventh Street, driver."

"I shall want you at seven-thirty sharp, to-morrow morning," he said, as they alighted. "Will
you be here, sure?"

"Sure, boss!"

"You'll make another one of those if you're on time."

The driver faced the bill toward the nearest street-light and scanned it. Then he placed it
tenderly in the lining of his hat, and said, fervently:

"I'll be here, gent!"

"My trunks," Avice reminded him.

"And, driver, send an express wagon at seven sharp. Do you understand, now?"

"Sure, gent, I'll have it here at seven, and be here at seven-thirty."

They went in.

"You've sent Briggs off, and I've all that packing and unpacking to do."

"You have a husband who is handy at those things."

They went up to her room where two trunks yawned open.

Under her directions and with her help he took out the light summer things and replaced them
with heavier gowns, stout shoes, golf-capes, and caps.

"We'll be up on the Bitter Root ranch this summer, and you'll need heavy things," he had told her.

Sometimes he packed clumsily, and she was obliged to do his work over. In these intervals he
studied with interest the big old room and her quaint old sampler worked in coloured worsteds
that had faded to greys and dull browns: "La Nuit Porte Conseil."

"Grandma Loekermann did it at the convent, ages ago," she told him.

"What a cautious young thing she must have been!"

She leaned against his shoulder.

"But she eloped with her true love, young Annekje Van Schoule; left the home in Hickory Street
one night, and went far away, away up beyond One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street, somewhere,
and then wrote them about it."

"And left the sampler?"

"She had her husband--she didn't need any old sampler after that--Le mariage porte conseil,
aussi, monsieur. And now, you've married your wife with her wedding-ring, that came from Holland
years and years ago."

It was after midnight when they began to pack. When they finished it was nearly four.

She had laid out a dark dress for the journey, but he insisted that she put it in a suit-case,
and wear the one she had on.

"I shouldn't know you in any other--and it's the colour of your eyes. I want that colour all
over the place."

"But we shall be travelling."

"In our own car. That car has been described in the public prints as a 'suite of palatial apartments
with all modern conveniences.'"

"I forgot."

"We shall be going West like the old '49-ers, seeking adventure and gold."

"Did they go in their private cars?"

"Some of them went in rolling six-horse Concords, and some walked, and some of them pushed
their baggage across in little hand-carts, but they had fun at it--and we shall have to work
as hard when we get there."

"Dear me! And I'm so tired already. I feel quite done up."

She threw herself on the wide divan, and he fixed pillows under her head.

"You boy! I'm glad it's all over. Let's rest a moment."

He leaned back by her, and drew her head on to his arm.

"I'm glad, too. It's the hardest day's work I ever did. Are you comfortable? Rest."

"It's so good," she murmured, nestling on his shoulder.

"Uncle Peter took his honeymoon in a big wagon drawn by a mule team, two hundred miles over
the 'Placerville and Red Dog Trail--over the mountains from California to Nevada. But he says
he never had so happy a time."

"He's an old dear! I'll kiss him--how is it you say--'good and plenty.' Did our Uncle Peter
elope, too?"

He chuckled.

"Not exactly. It was more like abduction complicated with assault and battery. Uncle Peter
is pretty direct in his methods. The young lady's family thought she could do better with a
bloated capitalist who owned three-eighths of a saw-mill. But Uncle Peter and she thought she
couldn't. So Uncle Peter had to lick her father and two brothers before he could get her away.
He would have licked the purse-proud rival, too, but the rival ran into the saw-mill he owned
the three-eighths of, and barricaded the whole eight-eighths--the-five-eighths that didn't
belong to him at all, you understand--and then he threatened through a chink to shoot somebody
if Uncle Peter didn't go off about his business. So Uncle Peter went, not wanting any unnecessary
trouble. I've always suspected he was a pretty ready scrapper in those days, but the poor old
fellow's getting a bit childish now, with all this trouble about losing the money, and the
hard time he had in the snow last winter. By the way, I forgot to ask, and it's almost too
late now, but do you like cats?"

"I adore them--aren't kittens the dearest?"

"Well--you're healthy--and your nose doesn't really fall below the specifications, though it
doesn't promise that you're any too sensible,--but if you can make up for it by your infatuation
for cats, perhaps it will be all right. Of course I couldn't keep you, you know, if you weren't
very fond of cats, because Uncle Peter'd raise a row--"

She was quite still, and he noted from the change in her soft breathing that she slept. With
his free hand he carefully shook out a folded steamer rug and drew it over her.

For an hour he watched her, feeling the arm on which she lay growing numb. He reviewed the
day and the crowded night. He could do something after all. Among other things, now, he would
drop a little note to Higbee and add the news of his marriage as a postscript. She was actually
his wife. How quickly it had come. His heart was full of a great love for her, but he could
not quite repress the pride in his achievement--and Shepler had not been sure until he was poor!

He lost consciousness himself for a little while.

When he awoke the cold light of the morning was stealing in. He was painfully cramped, and
chilled from the open window. From outside came the loud chattering of sparrows, and far away
he could hear wagons as they rattled across a street of Belgian blocks from asphalt to asphalt.
The light had been late in coming, and he could see a sullen grey sky, full of darker clouds.

Above the chiffonier he could see the ancient sampler.

"La Nuit Porte Conseil." It was true.

In the cold, pitiless light of the morning a sudden sickness of doubting seized him. She would
awake and reproach him bitterly for coercing her. She had been right, the night before,--it
was madness. They had talked afterward so feverishly, as if to forget their situation. Now
she would face it coldly after the sleep.

"La Nuit Porte Conseil." Had he not been a fool? And he loved her so. He would have her anyway--no
matter what she said, now.

She stirred, and her wide-open eyes were staring up at him--staring with hurt, troubled wonder.
The amazement in them grew--she could not understand.

He stopped breathing. His embrace of her relaxed.

And then he saw remembrance--recognition--welcome--and there blazed into her eyes such a look
of whole love as makes men thrill to all good; such a look as makes them know they are men,
and dare all great deeds to show it. Like a sunrise, it flooded her face with dear, wondrous
beauties,--and still she looked, silent, motionless,--in an ecstasy of pure realisation. Then
her arms closed about his neck with a swift little rushing, and he--still half-doubting, still
curious--felt himself strained to her. Still more closely she clung, putting out with her intensity
all his misgiving.

She sought his lips with her own--eager, pressing.

"Kiss me--kiss me--kiss me! Oh, it's all true--all true! My best-loved dream has come all true!
I have rested so in your arms. I never knew rest before. I can't remember when I haven't awakened
to doubt, and worry, and heart-sickness. And now it's peace--dear, dear, dearest dear, for
ever and ever and ever."

They sat up.

"Now we shall go--get me away quickly."

It was nearly seven. Outside the sky was still all gloom.

In the rush of her reassurance he had forgotten his arm. It hung limp from his shoulder.

"It was cramped."

"And you didn't move it?"

They beat it and kneaded it gaily together, until the fingers were full of the rushing blood
and able again to close warmly over her own little hand.

"Now go, and let me get ready. I won't be long."

He went below to the library, and in the dim grey light picked up a book, "The Delights of
Delicate Eating." He tried another, "101 Sandwiches." The next was "Famous Epicures of the
17th Century." On the floor was her diary. He placed it on the table. He heard her call him
from the stairs:

"Bring me up that ring from the table, please!"

He went up and handed it to her through the narrowly opened door.

As he went down the stairs he heard the bell ring somewhere below, and went to the door.

"Baggage!"

The two trunks were down and out. "They're to go on this car, attached to the Chicago Express."
He wrote the directions on one of his cards and paid the man.

At seven-thirty the bell rang again. The cabman was there.

"Seven-thirty, gent!"

"Avice!"

"I'm coming. And there are two bags I wish you'd get from my room." He let her pass him and
went up for them.

She went into the library and, taking up the diary, tore out a sheet, marked heavily upon it
with a pencil around the passage she had read the evening before, and sealed it in an envelope.
She addressed it to her father, and laid it, with a paper-weight on it, upon "The Delights
of Delicate Eating," where he would be sure to find it.

The book itself she placed on the wood laid ready in the grate to light, touched a match to
the crumpled paper underneath and put up the blower. She stood waiting to see that the fire
would burn.

Over the mantel from its yellow canvas looked above her head the humourously benignant eyes
of old Annekje Van Schoule, who had once removed from Maspeth Kill on Long Island to New Haarlem
on the Island of Manhattan, and carried there, against her father's will, the yellow-haired
girl he had loved. His face now seemed to be pretending unconsciousness of the rashly acted
scenes he had witnessed--lest, if he betrayed his consciousness, he should be forced, in spite
of himself, to disclose his approval--a thing not fitting for an elderly, dignified Dutch burgher
to do.

"Avice!"

"Coming!"

