"Squire" Trevannion, as he was called, died in his own house, where his ancestors for hundreds
of years before him had dispensed hospitality. None of them, however, had entertained so profusely
as he; or rather improvidently, it might be said, since in less than three months after his
death the old family mansion, with the broad acres appertaining to it, passed into the hands
of an alien, leaving his two sons, Ralph and Richard, landless, houseless, and almost powerless.
One thousand pounds apiece was all that remained to them out of the wreck of the patrimonial
estates. It was whispered that even this much was not in reality theirs, but had been given
to them by the very respectable solicitor who had managed their father's affairs, and had furthermore
managed to succeed him in the ownership of a property worth a rental of three thousand a year.

Any one knowing the conditions under which the young Trevannions received their two thousand
pounds must have believed it to be a gift, since it was handed over to them by the family solicitor
with the private understanding that they were to use it in pushing their fortunes elsewhere,--anywhere
except in Cornwall!

The land-pirate who had plucked them--for in reality had they been plucked--did not wish them
to stay at home, divested, as they were, of their valuable plumage. He had appropriated their
fine feathers, and cared not for the naked bodies of the birds.

There were those in Cornwall who suspected foul play in the lawyer's dealings with the young
Trevannions,--among others, the victims themselves. But what could they do? They were utterly
ignorant of their late father's affairs,--indeed, with any affairs that did not partake of
the nature of "sports." A solicitor "most respectable,"--a phrase that has become almost synonymous
with rascality,--a regular church-goer,--accounts kept with scrupulous exactness,--a man of
honest face, distinguished for probity of speech and integrity of heart,--what could the Trevannions
do? What more than the Smiths and the Browns and the Joneses, who, notwithstanding their presumed
greater skill in the ways of a wicked lawyer world, are duped every day in a similar manner.
It is an old and oft-repeated story,--a tale too often told, and too often true,--that of the
family lawyer and his confiding client, standing in the relationship of robber and robbed.

The two children of Squire Trevannion could do nothing to save or recover their paternal estate.
Caught in the net of legal chicanery, they were forced to yield, as other squire's children
have had to do, and make the best of a bad matter,--forced to depart from a home that had been
held by Trevannions perhaps since the Phoenicians strayed thitherward in search of their shining
tin.

It sore grieved them to separate from the scenes of their youth; but the secret understanding
with the solicitor required that sacrifice. By staying at home a still greater might be called
for,--subsistence in penury, and, worse than all, in a humiliating position; for, notwithstanding
the open house long kept by their father, his friends had disappeared with his guests. Impelled
by these thoughts, the brothers resolved to go forth into the wide world, and seek fortune
wherever it seemed most likely they should find it.

They were at this period something more than mere children. Ralph had reached within twelve
months of being twenty. Richard was his junior by a couple of years. Their book-education had
been good; the practice of manly sports had imparted to both of them a physical strength that
fitted them for toil, either of the mind or body. They were equal to a tough struggle, either
in the intellectual or material world; and to this they determined to resign themselves.

For a time they debated between themselves where they should go, and what do. The army and
navy came under their consideration. With such patronage as their father's former friends could
command, and might still exert in favor of their fallen fortunes, a commission in either army
or navy was not above their ambition. But neither felt much inclined towards a naval or military
life; the truth being, that a thought had taken shape in their minds leading them to a different
determination.

Their deliberations ended by each of them proclaiming a resolve,--almost sealing it with a
vow,--that they would enter into some more profitable, though perhaps less pretentious, employment
than that of either soldiering or sailoring; that they would toil--with their hands, if need
be--until they should accumulate a sufficient sum to return and recover the ancestral estate
from the grasp of the avaricious usurper. They did not know how it was to be done; but, young,
strong, and hopeful, they believed it might be done,--with time, patience, and industry to
aid them in the execution.

"Where shall we go?" inquired Richard, the younger of the two. "To America, where every poor
man appears to prosper? With a thousand each to begin the world with, we might do well there.
What say you, Ralph?"

"America is a country where men seem to thrive best who have nothing to begin the world with.
You mean North America,--the United States,--I suppose?"

"I do."

"I don't much like the United States as a home,--not because it is a republic, for I believe
that is the only just form of government, whatever our aristocratic friends may say. I object
to it simply because I wish to go south,--to some part of the tropical world, where one may
equally be in the way of acquiring a fortune."

"Is there such a place?"

"There is."

"Where, brother?"

"Peru. Anywhere along the Sierra of the Andes from Chili to the Isthmus of Panama. As Cornish
men we should adopt the specialty of our province, and become miners. The Andes mountains will
give us that opportunity, where, instead of gray tin, we may delve for yellow gold. What say
you to South America?"

"I like the thought of South America,--nothing would please me better than going there. But
I must confess, brother, I have no inclination for the occupation you speak of. I had rather
be a merchant than a miner."

"Don't let that penchant prevent you from selecting Peru as the scene of mercantile transactions.
There are many Englishmen who have made fortunes in the Peruvian trade. You may hope to follow
their example. We may choose different occupations and still be near each other. One thousand
pounds each may give both of us a start,--you as a merchant of goods, I as a digger for gold.
Peru is the place for either business. Decide, Dick! Shall we sail for the scenes rendered
celebrated by Pizarro?"

"If you will it--I'm agreed."

"Thither then let us go."

In a month from that time the two Trevannions might have been seen upon a ship, steering westward
from the Land's End, and six months later both disembarked upon the beach of Callao,--en route
first for Lima, thence up the mountains, to the sterile snow-crested mountains, that tower
above the treasures of Cerro Pasco,--vainly guarded within the bosom of adamantine rocks.

CHAPTER II.

THE BROTHERS ABROAD.

This book is not intended as a history of the brothers Ralph and Richard Trevannion. If it
were so, a gap of some fifteen years--after the date of their arrival at Cerro Pasco--would
have to be filled up. I decline to speak of this interval of their lives, simply because the
details might not have any remarkable interest for those before whom they would be laid.

