"That is enough. Take me into the bay, and land me at midnight. I will not go to the city.
Get out all the oars now. At the proper time I will tell you what further I wish. Remember
I am to be set ashore at midnight at a place which I will show you."

The directions though few were clear. Having given them, the passenger signed the negro to
fan him, and stretched himself upon the pallet; and thenceforth there was no longer a question
who was in control. It became the more interesting, however, to know the object of the landing
at midnight on the shore of a lonesome unnamed bay.

CHAPTER II

THE MIDNIGHT LANDING

The skipper predicted like a prophet. The ship was in the bay, and it was midnight or nearly
so; for certain stars had climbed into certain quarters of the sky, and after their fashion
were striking the hour.

The passenger was pleased.

"You have done well," he said to the mariner. "Be silent now, and get close in shore. There
are no breakers. Have the small boat ready, and do not let the anchors go."

The calm still prevailed, and the swells of the sea were scarce perceptible. Under the gentlest
impulse of the oars the little vessel drifted broadside on until the keel touched the sands.
At the same instant the small boat appeared. The skipper reported to the passenger. Going to
each of the slaves, the latter signed them to descend. The negro swung himself down like a
monkey, and received the baggage, which, besides the bundles already mentioned, consisted of
some tools, notably a pick, a shovel, and a stout crowbar. An empty water-skin was also sent
down, followed by a basket suggestive of food. Then the passenger, with a foot over the side
of the vessel, gave his final directions.

"You will run now," he said to the skipper, who, to his credit, had thus far asked no questions,
"down to the city, and lie there to-morrow, and to-morrow night. Attract little notice as possible.
It is not necessary to pass the gate. Put out in time to be here at sunrise. I will be waiting
for you. Day after to-morrow at sunrise--remember."

"But if you should not be here?" asked the sailor, thinking of extreme probabilities.

"Then wait for me," was the answer.

The passenger, in turn, descended to the boat, and was caught in the arms of the black, and
seated carefully as he had been a child. In brief time the party was ashore, and the boat returning
to the ship; a little later, the ship withdrew to where the night effectually curtained the deep.

The stay on the shore was long enough to apportion the baggage amongst the slaves. The master
then led the way. Crossing the road running from Sidon along the coast to the up-country, they
came to the foothills of the mountain, all without habitation.

Later they came upon signs of ancient life in splendor--broken columns, and here and there
Corinthian capitals in marble discolored and sunk deeply in sand and mould. The patches of
white on them had a ghastly glimmer in the starlight. They were approaching the site of an
old city, a suburb probably of Palae-Tyre when she was one of the spectacles of the world,
sitting by the sea to rule it regally far and wide.

On further a small stream, one of those emptying into the bay, had ploughed a ravine for itself
across the route the party was pursuing. Descending to the water, a halt was made to drink,
and fill the water-skin, which the negro took on his shoulder.

On further there was another ancient site strewn with fragments indicative of a cemetery. Hewn
stones were frequent, and mixed with them were occasional entablatures and vases from which
the ages had not yet entirely worn the fine chiselling. At length an immense uncovered sarcophagus
barred the way. The master stopped by it to study the heavens; when he found the north star,
he gave the signal to his followers, and moved under the trail of the steadfast beacon.

