Pope Julius, who reigned from 337 to 352 A. D., after a careful investigation, considered it
settled beyond doubt that Christ was born on or about the twenty-fifth of December, and by
the end of the fifth century that date was very generally accepted by Christians. The transition
from the old to the new significance of Yule-tide was brought about so quietly and naturally
that it made no great impression on the mind of the masses, so nothing authentic can be learned
of the early observance of Christmas.

The holly, laurel, mistletoe, and other greens used by the Druids still served as decorations
of the season, not as a shelter for fairies, as in former days, but as emblems of resurrection
and of immortal hope.

The glorious luminary of day, whether known as Balder, Baal, Sol, or any other of the innumerable
names by which it was called by the primitive peoples, still gladdens the hearts of mortals
at Yule-tide by "turning-back" as of old; only to-day it yields its place to a Superior Power,
in whose honor Yule-tide is observed.

       *       *       *       *       *

All Christendom owes a debt of gratitude to its pagan forbears for the pleasant features of
many of its holidays and especially for those of Yule-tide. The Fathers of the early church
showed rare wisdom in retaining the customs of these ante-Christian festivals, imbuing them
with the spirit of the new faith and making them emblematic of a purer love and hope.

New Year's Day as a feast day is one of the oldest, if not the oldest, on record. It is mentioned
by Tacitus in the First Century, but first referred to as a Christian festival about the year 567.

In Rome the day was dedicated by Numa to the honor of god Janus, for whom Julius Cæsar named
the month of January. Numa ordained that it should be observed as a day of good-humor and good-fellowship.
All grudges and hard feelings were to be forgotten. Sacrifices of cake, wine, and incense were
to be made to the two-faced god who looked forward and backward. Men of letters, mechanics,
and others were expected to give to the god the best they had to offer of their respective
arts. It was the great occasion of the entire year, as it is now in many countries.

The date of New Year's Day has varied among different nations. Among the Egyptians, Chinese,
Jews, and Romans it has been observed on dates varying from March first to December twenty-fifth.
It was as late as the Sixteenth Century before the date of January first was universally accepted
as the New Year by the Romans. Nations retaining the Gregorian calendar, such as Russia and
Greece, observe it thirteen days later than those who reckon time by the Julian calendar.

Among northern nations the love of fire and light originated the custom of kindling bonfires
to burn out the old year and destroy all evil connected with its past. Light has long been
an expression of joy and gladness among all branches of the Aryan race.

The Greek and Latin Churches still term Christmas the "Feast of Lights," and make it a period
of brilliancy in Church and home. The Protestant covers the Christmas tree with lighted candles
and builds a glowing fire on the hearth. The innate love of light and warmth--the inheritance
from the sun-worshipers of ages past--is always dominant in humanity at Yule-tide festivals.

    "The King of Light, father of aged Time,
    Hath brought about that day which is the prime,
    To the slow-gliding months, when every eye
    Wears symptoms of a sober jollity,
    And every hand is ready to present
    Some service in a real compliment."

CHAPTER II.

YULE-TIDE IN ENGLAND

    "Christians in old time did rejoice
    And feast at this blest tide."

--Old Carol.

No country has entered more heartily into Yule-tide observance than England. From the earliest
known date her people have celebrated this festival with great ceremony. In the time of the
Celts it was principally a religious observance, but this big, broad-shouldered race added
mirth to it, too. They came to the festivities in robes made from the skins of brindled cows,
and wearing their long hair flowing and entwined with holly.

The Druids in the temples kept the consecrated fires burning briskly. All household fires were
extinguished, and any one wishing to rekindle the flame at any time during the twelve days
preceding Yule-tide must buy the consecrated fire. The Druids also had a rather unique custom
of sending their young men around with Yule-tide greetings and branches of mistletoe (quiviscum).
Each family receiving this gift was expected in return to contribute generously to the temples.

With the coming of the Saxons, higher revelry reigned, and a Saxon observance of Yule-tide
must have been a jolly sight to see. In the center of the hall, upon the open hearth, blazed
a huge fire with its column of smoke pouring out through an opening in the thatched roof, or,
if beaten by the wind, wandering among the beams above. The usually large family belonging
to the house gathered in this big living-room. The table stretched along one side of the room,
and up and down its great length the guests were seated in couples. Between them was a half-biscuit
of bread to serve as a plate. Later on this would be thrown into the alms-basket for distribution
among the poor.

Soon the servers entered carrying long iron spits on which they brought pieces of the meats,
fish, and fowls that had been roasted in isen pannas (iron pans) suspended from tripods out
in the yard. Fingers were used instead of forks to handle the food, and the half-biscuit plates
received the grease and juices and protected the handsome bord-cloth.

There was an abundance of food, for the Saxons were great eaters. Besides flesh, fish, and
fowls their gardens furnished plenty of beans and other vegetables, and their ort-geards produced
raspberries, strawberries, plums, sweet and sour apples, and cod-apples, or quinces. The cider
and stronger drinks were quaffed from quaint round-bottomed tumblers which, as they could not
stand up, had to be emptied at a draught.

The Saxons dined at about eleven o'clock and, as business was not pressing in those days, could
well afford to spend hours at the feast, eating, drinking, and making merry.

After every one had eaten, games were played, and these games are the same as our children
play to-day--handed down to us from the old Saxon times.

When night came and the ear-thyrls (eyeholes, or windows) no longer admitted the light of the
sun, long candlesticks dipped in wax were lighted and fastened into sockets along the sides
of the hall. Then the makers, or bards as they came to be called in later days, sang of the
gods and goddesses or of marvelous deeds done by the men of old. Out-of-doors huge bonfires
burned in honor of Mother-Night, and to her, also, peace offerings of Yule cakes were made.

It was the Saxon who gave to the heal-all of the Celts the pretty name of mistletoe, or mistletan,--meaning
a shoot or tine of a tree. There was jollity beneath the mistletoe then as now, only then everybody
believed in its magic powers. It was the sovereign remedy for all diseases, but it seems to
have lost its curative power, for the scientific men of the present time fail to find that
it possesses any medical qualities.

Later on, when the good King Alfred was on the English throne, there were greater comforts
and luxuries among the Saxons. Descendants of the settlers had built halls for their families
near the original homesteads, and the wall that formerly surrounded the home of the settler
was extended to accommodate the new homes until there was a town within the enclosure. Yule
within these homes was celebrated with great pomp. The walls of the hall were hung with rich
tapestries, the food was served on gold and silver plates, and the tumblers, though sometimes
of wood or horn, were often of gold and silver, too.

In these days the family dressed more lavishly. Men wore long, flowing ringlets and forked
beards. Their tunics of woolen, leather, linen, or silk, reached to the knees and were fastened
at the waist by a girdle. Usually a short cloak was worn over the tunic. They bedecked themselves
with all the jewelry they could wear; bracelets, chains, rings, brooches, head-bands, and other
ornaments of gold and precious stones.

Women wore their best tunics made either of woolen woven in many colors or of silk embroidered
in golden flowers. Their "abundant tresses," curled by means of hot irons, were confined by
the richest head-rails. The more fashionable wore cuffs and bracelets, earrings and necklaces,
and painted their cheeks a more than hectic flush.

In the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries the magnificence of the Yule-tide observance may be
said to have reached its height. In the old baronial halls where:

    "The fire, with well-dried logs supplied,
    Went roaring up the chimney wide,"

Christmas was kept with great jollity.

It was considered unlucky to have the holly brought into the house before Christmas Eve, so
throughout the week merry parties of young people were out in the woods gathering green boughs,
and on Christmas Eve, with jest and song, they came in laden with branches to decorate the hall.

    "Lo, now is come our joyfull'st feast!
    Let every man be jolly,
    Eache room with yvie leaves be drest.
    And every post with holly."

Later on, men rolled in the huge Yule-log, emblematic of warmth and light. It was of oak if
possible, the oak being sacred to Thor, and was rolled into place amidst song and merriment.
In one of these songs the first stanza is:

    "Welcome be thou, heavenly King,
    Welcome born on this morning,
    Welcome for whom we shall sing,
          Welcome Yule."

The third stanza is addressed to the crowd:

    "Welcome be ye that are here,
    Welcome all, and make good cheer,
    Welcome all, another year;
          Welcome Yule."

Each member of the family, seated in turn upon the log, saluted it, hoping to receive good
luck. It was considered unlucky to consume the entire log during Yule; if good luck was to
attend that household during the coming twelve months, a piece ought to be left over with which
to start the next year's fire.

    "Part must be kept wherewith to tende
    The Christmas log next yeare,
    And where 'tis safely kept, the fiend
    Can do no mischiefe theere."

The boar's head held the principal place of honor at the dinner. So during September and October,
when the boar's flesh was at its best, hunters with well-trained packs of boar-hounds set out
to track this savage animal. They attacked the boar with spears, or surrounded him and drove
him into nets. He was a ferocious antagonist to both dogs and men, and when sore pressed would
wheel about, prepared to fight to the death. Before the dogs could grip him by the ear, his
one weak point, and pin him down, his sharp teeth would often wound or even kill both the hunter
and his dogs. The pluckier the animal the louder the praise sung in his honor when his head
was brought into the hall. The great head, properly soused, was borne in on an immense salver
by the "old blue-coated serving-man" on Christmas day. He was preceded by the trumpeters and
followed by the mummers, and thus in state the boar's head was ushered in and assigned to its
place on the table. The father of the family or head of the household laid his hand on the
dish containing the "boar of atonement," as it was at one time called, swearing to be faithful
to his family and to fulfil all his obligations as a man of honor. This solemn act was performed
before the carving by every man present. The carver had to be a man of undaunted courage and
untarnished reputation.

Next in honor at the feast was the peacock. It was sometimes served as a pie with its head
protruding from one side of the crust and its wide-spread tail from the other; more often the
bird was skinned, stuffed with herbs and sweet spices, roasted, and then put into its skin
again, when with head erect and tail outspread it was borne into the hall by a lady--as was
singularly appropriate--and given the second place on the table.

The feudal system gave scope for much magnificence at Yule-tide. At a time when several thousand
retainers[4] were fed daily at a single castle or on a baron's estate, preparations for the
Yule feast--the great feast of the year--were necessarily on a large scale, and the quantity
of food reported to have been prepared on such occasions is perfectly appalling to Twentieth-Century
feasters.

In 1248 King Henry III held a feast in Westminster Hall for the poor which lasted a week. Four
years later he entertained one thousand knights, peers, and other nobles, who came to attend
the marriage of Princess Margaret with Alexander, King of the Scots. He was generously assisted
by the Archbishop of York who gave £2700, besides six hundred fat oxen. A truly royal Christmas
present whether extorted or given of free will!

More than a century later Richard II held Christmas at Litchfield and two thousand oxen and
two hundred tuns of wine were consumed. This monarch was accustomed to providing for a large
family, as he kept two thousand cooks to prepare the food for the ten thousand persons who
dined every day at his expense.

Henry VIII, not to be outdone by his predecessors, kept one Yule-tide at which the cost of
the cloth of gold that was used alone amounted to £600. Tents were erected within the spacious
hall from which came the knights to joust in tournament; beautiful artificial gardens were
arranged out of which came the fantastically dressed dancers. The Morris (Moresque) Dance came
into vogue in England during the reign of Henry VII, and long continued to be a favorite. The
dancers were decorated from crown to toe in gay ribbon streamers, and cut all manner of antics
for the amusement of the guests. This dance held the place at Yule that the Fool's Dance formerly
held during the Roman Saturnalia.

Henry VIII's daughter, Elizabeth, kept the season in great magnificence at Hampton Court where
plays written for the occasion were presented. The poet Herrick favored:

    "Of Christmas sports, the wassell boule,
    That's tost up after Fox-i-th'-hole."

This feature of Yule observance, which is usually attributed to Rowena, daughter of Vortigern,
dates back to the grace-cup of the Greeks and Romans which is also the supposed source of the
bumper. According to good authority the word bumper came from the grace-cup which Roman Catholics
drank to the Pope, au bon Père. The wassail bowl of spiced ale has continued in favor ever
since the Princess Rowena bade her father's guests Wassheil.

The offering of gifts at Yule has been observed since offerings were first made to the god
Frey for a fruitful year. In olden times one of the favorite gifts received from tenants was
an orange stuck with cloves which the master was to hang in his wine vessels to improve the
flavor of the wine and prevent its moulding.

As lords received gifts from their tenants, so it was the custom for kings to receive gifts
from their nobles. Elizabeth received a goodly share of her wardrobe as gifts from her courtiers,
and if the quality or quantity was not satisfactory, the givers were unceremoniously informed
of the fact. In 1561 she received at Yule a present of a pair of black silk stockings knit
by one of her maids, and never after would she wear those made of cloth. Underclothing of all
kinds, sleeves richly embroidered and bejeweled, in fact everything she needed to wear, were
given to her and she was completely fitted out at this season.

In 1846 Sir Henry Cole is said to have originated the idea of sending Christmas cards to friends.
They were the size of small visiting-cards, often bearing a small colored design--a spray of
holly, a flower, or a bit of mistletoe--and the compliments of the day. Joseph Crandall was
the first publisher. Only about one thousand were sold the first year, but by 1862 the custom
of sending one of these pretty cards in an envelope or with gifts to friends became general
and has now spread to other countries.

During the Reformation the custom of observing Christmas was looked upon as sacrilegious. It
savored of popery, and in the narrowness of the light then dawning the festival was abolished
except in the Anglican and Lutheran Churches. Tenants and neighbors no longer gathered in the
hall on Christmas morning to partake freely of the ale, blackjacks, cheese, toast, sugar, and
nutmeg. If they sang at all, it was one of the pious hymns considered suitable-and sufficiently
doleful--for the occasion. One wonders if the young men ever longed for the sport they used
to have on Christmas morning when they seized any cook who had neglected to boil the hackin[5]
and running her round the market-place at full speed attempted to shame her of her laziness.

Then Christmas became a day of work and no cheer. The love of fun which must find vent was
expended at New Year, when the celebration was similar to that formerly observed at Christmas.
But people were obliged to bid farewell to the Christmas Prince who used to rule over Christmas
festivities at Whitehall, and whose short reign was always one of rare pleasure and splendor.
He and other rulers of pastimes were dethroned and banished from the kingdom. Yule cakes, which
the feasters used to cut in slices, toast, and soak in spicy ale, were not to be eaten--or
certainly not on Christmas. It was not even allowable for the pretty Yule candles to be lighted.

Christmas has never regained its former prestige in England. Year after year it has been more
observed in churches and families, but not in the wild, boisterous, hearty style of olden times.
Throughout Great Britain Yule-tide is now a time of family reunions and social gatherings.
Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and the Islands each retain a few of their own peculiar customs,
but they are not observed to any extent. In Ireland--or at least in some parts--they still
indulge in drinking what is known as Lamb's-wool, which is made by bruising roasted apples
and mixing the juice with ale or milk. This drink, together with apples and nuts, is considered
indispensable on Christmas Eve.

England of all countries has probably known the merriest of Yule-tides, certainly the merriest
during those centuries when the mummers of yore bade to each and all

    "A merry Christmas and a happy New Year,
    Your pockets full of money and your cellar full of beer."

There seems always to have been more or less anxiety felt regarding New Year's Day in England,
for "If the morning be red and dusky it denotes a year of robberies and strife."

    "If the grass grows in Janivear
    It grows the worse for 't all the year."

And then very much depended upon the import of the chapter to which one opened the Bible on
this morning. If the first visitor chanced to be a female, ill luck was sure to follow, although
why it should is not explained.

It was very desirable to obtain the "cream of the year" from the nearest spring, and maidens
sat up till after midnight to obtain the first pitcherful of water, supposed to possess remarkable
virtues. Modern plumbing and city water-pipes have done away with the observance of the "cream
of the year," although the custom still prevails of sitting up to see the Old Year out and
the New Year in.

AT CHRISTMAS TIME

    At Christmas time the fields are white,
      And hill and valley all bedight
    With snowy splendor, while on high
    The black crows sail athwart the sky,
    Mourning for summer days gone by
            At Christmas time.

    At Christmas time the air is chill,
      And frozen lies the babbling rill:
    While sobbingly the trees make moan
    For leafy greenness once their own,
    For blossoms dead and birdlings flown
            At Christmas time.

    At Christmas time we deck the hall
      With holly branches brave and tall,
    With sturdy pine and hemlock bright,
    And in the Yule-log's dancing light
    We tell old tales of field and fight
            At Christmas time.

    At Christmas time we pile the board
      With flesh and fruit and vintage stored,
    And mid the laughter and the glow
    We tred a measure soft and slow,
    And kiss beneath the mistletoe
            At Christmas time.

    O God and Father of us all,
      List to Thy lowliest creature's call:
    Give of Thy joy to high and low,
    Comforting the sorrowing in their woe;
    Make wars to cease and love to grow
            At Christmas time.

    Let not one heart be sad to-day;
      May every child be glad and gay:
    Bless Thou Thy children great and small,
    In lowly hut or castle hall,
    And may each soul keep festival
            At Christmas time.

THE NEW YEAR

    "A good New Year, with many blessings in it!"
    Once more go forth the kindly wish and word.
    A good New Year! and may we all begin it
    With hearts by noble thought and purpose stirred.

    The Old Year's over, with its joy and sadness;
    The path before us is untried and dim;
    But let us take it with the step of gladness,
    For God is there, and we can trust in Him.

    What of the buried hopes that lie behind us!
    Their graves may yet grow flowers, so let them rest.
    To-day is ours, and it must find us
    Prepared to hope afresh and do our best.

    God knows what finite wisdom only guesses;
    Not here from our dim eyes the mist will roll.
    What we call failures, He may deem successes
    Who sees in broken parts the perfect whole.

    And if we miss some dear familiar faces,
    Passed on before us to the Home above,
    Even while we count, through tears, their vacant places,
    He heals our sorrows with His balm of Love.

    No human lot is free from cares and crosses,
    Each passing year will bring both shine and shower;
    Yet, though on troubled seas life's vessel tosses,
    The storms of earth endure but for an hour.

    And should the river of our happy laughter
    Flow 'neath a sky no cloud yet overcasts,
    We will not fear the shadows coming after,
    But make the most of sunshine while it lasts.

    A good New Year! Oh, let us all begin it
    With cheerful faces turning to the light!
    A good New Year, which will have blessings in it
    If we but persevere and do aright.

--E. Matheson.

CHAPTER III.

YULE-TIDE IN GERMANY

    "Feed the wood and have a joyful minute,
    For the seeds of earthly suns are in it."

--Goethe.

It was away back in the time of Alexander the Great that Germany was made known to the civilized
world by an adventurous sailor named Pytheas, a man of more than ordinary talent, who was sailing
northward and discovered a land inhabited by a then unknown people. He reported his discovery
to the Romans, but the difficulty was that Pytheas had seen so much more than any of the Greeks
or Romans of those days that they utterly refused to believe his statements. Time has proved
that the sailor was nearer right in many of his apparently visionary statements than his countrymen
dreamed, although it has taken centuries to prove the fact in some cases.

The people whom Pytheas then introduced to the polite world were Teutons, a branch of the great
Aryan race and closely related to the early English. The men were simple, truthful, and brave,
but were sadly addicted to drink, it was said, and consequently were often quarrelsome. The
women were much like those of to-day in their characteristics: virtuous, proud, and dignified;
very beautiful, with golden-hued hair, blue eyes, and fresh, fair complexions. Like most of
the early peoples, the Teutons worshiped gods and goddesses, and so have many customs and traditions
in common with other branches of the Aryans.

If England has enjoyed the merriest Yule-tides of the past, certainly Germany enjoys the merriest
of the present, for in no other country is the day so fully and heartily observed. It is the
great occasion of the year and means much to the people.

For a week or more before the day, loads of evergreen trees of all sizes may be seen coming
into the cities and towns to be piled up in squares and open places until the entire place
looks like a forest of small firs. One wonders where they all come from and for how many years
the supply will last, but it is not likely to fail at present.

The Lutherans gave Martin Luther the credit of introducing the Christmas tree into Germany.
He may have helped to make it popular, but certainly there is abundant evidence to prove that
it was known long before the Reformer's time. It is generally supposed to have its origin in
mythological times and to be a vestige of the marvelous tree, Yggdrasil.

Possibly Martin Luther thought of the old story of the tree and imagined, as he traveled alone
one cold night, how pretty the snow-laden fir-trees along his path would look could they be
lighted by the twinkling stars overhead. But whether he had anything to do with it or not,
the tree is now one of the most important features of Yule-tide among the Germans of all denominations.

Nearly ten million households require one or two trees each Christmas, varying in height from
two to twenty feet. Societies provide them for people who are too poor to buy them, and very
few are overlooked at this happy holiday season.

The grand Yule-tide festival is opened on the eve of St. Nicholas Day, December sixth; in fact
bazaars are held from the first of the month, which is really one prolonged season of merrymaking.

In Germany, St. Nicholas has a day set apart in his honor. He was born in. Palara, a city of
Lycia, and but very little is known of his life except that he was made Bishop of Myra and
died in the year 343. It was once the custom to send a man around to personate St. Nicholas
on St. Nicholas Eve, and to inquire how the children had behaved through the year, who were
deserving of gifts, and who needed a touch of the birch rods that he carried with him into
every home. St. Nicholas still goes about in some parts of the country, and in the bazaars
and shops are sold little bunches of rods, real or made of candy, such as St. Nicholas is supposed
to deal in. In some places Knight Rupert takes the place of St. Nicholas in visiting the houses.
But Kriss Kringle has nearly usurped the place St. Nicholas once held in awe and respect by
German children.

Because St. Nicholas Day came so near to Christmas, in some countries the Saint became associated
with that celebration, although in Germany the eve of his birthday continues to be observed.
Germans purchase liberally of the toys and confectionery offered at the bazaars, and nowhere
are prettier toys and confectionery found than in Germany--the country which furnishes the
most beautiful toys in the world.

From the palace to the hut, Yule-tide is a season of peace, rest, joy, and devotion. For three
days, that is the day before Christmas, Christmas, and the day after--known as Boxing-day--all
business not absolutely necessary to the welfare of the community is suspended. Stores, markets,
and bazaars present a festive appearance; the young girl attendants are smiling and happy,
and every one seems in the best of humor.

Many of the poorer class, of Germans do not eat much meat, but at Christmas all indulge in
that extravagance, so the markets are unusually crowded. They all like to purchase a plant
or a flower for Christmas and the flower stores are marvels of beauty and sweetness.

Every one is busy preparing for the great occasion. Grown folks become children again in the
simplicity of their enjoyment and enter into the excitement with as much enthusiasm as do the
children.

Newspapers are not generally published during the three days of business suspension, for no
one would have time or interest to read them at such a season.

In many places churches are open during the week before Christmas, for with all the bustle
and excitement incident to the preparations, the people, young and old, are filled with a deep
spirit of devotion, and never for an instant forget the significance of the occasion they commemorate.

Churches are not trimmed nor are they made attractive with flowers, songs, or in any special
way, but the people go to listen with devotion to the telling of the old, old story of Christ's
birthday and of the first Holy Night at Bethlehem.

The day before Christmas all are busy trimming up their homes and preparing for the great day.
Usually the mother of the household trims the tree, not admitting any other member of the curious
and expectant family into the room. Tables are provided for holding the gifts, as every one
in the family is expected to make a gift to every other member, and it is surprising to note
the interest taken in these simple gifts--often a soap-rose, an artificial flower, knitted
lace, even sausages, cheese, or butter--and with each and all the ever-present Christmas cake.
It is spiced and hard, cut into every manner of device--men, women, animals, stars, hearts,
etc. The Pfeffer Kuchen (pepper cakes) or some similar cakes are to be seen everywhere at Christmas
time.

The gifts are often accompanied with short verses, good, bad, or indifferent, according to
the talent of the giver, but all serve to make the occasion merry. In some families these simple
inexpensive gifts are so carefully kept that collections may be seen of gifts received by different
members of the family since their infancy.

It is ablaze with tiny lighted tapers and radiant with shiny tinsel cut in pretty devices or
in thread-like strips. Bright balls, gay toys, and paper flowers help to enhance its beauty,
and sometimes scenes from sacred history are arranged with toys at the base of the tree.

With the distribution of the gifts the fun begins; each person is expected to kiss every other
person present and help make the occasion a merry one.

Holy Night, or, as the Germans term it, Weihnacht--the Night of Dedication--is the time of
family reunions, fun, and frolic. Not alone in homes, hospitals, prisons, barracks, and elsewhere
is the pretty betinseled tree to be seen on Christmas, but in burying-grounds, on the resting-places
of the dead, stand these fresh green trees in evidence of keeping the loved one's memory green.

