She would have given everything that she had then to respond. She felt an infinite tenderness
and pity for him. But she could not. He felt that she could not. He let her go and turned away
from her. She thought for a moment wondering what she ought to say, and then she came up to
him and gently put her hand on his shoulder.

"Be patient, Paul," she said. "You know we agreed before we married that we'd be friends at
any rate and let the rest come. Wait ..."

"Wait!" he turned round eagerly, clutching her arm. "Then there is a chance, Maggie? You can
get to love me--you can forget that other man?"

She drew back. "No, you know I told you that I should never do that. But he'll never come back
nor want me again and I'm very fond of you, Paul--fonder than I thought. Don't spoil it all
now by going too fast--"

"Going too fast!" he laughed. "Why, I haven't gone any way at all. I haven't got you anywhere.
I can hardly touch you. You're away from me all the time. You're strange--different from every
one ..."

"I don't know anything about women. I've learnt a lot about myself this week. It isn't going
to be as easy as I thought."

She went up to him, close to him, and said almost desperately: "We MUST make this all right,
Paul. We can if we try. I know we can."

He kissed her gently with his old kindness. "What a baby you are. You didn't know what you
were in for ... Oh, we'll make it all right."

They sat close together then and drank their tea. After all, Grace would be here in an hour!
They both felt a kind of relief that they would no longer be alone.

Grace would be here in an hour! Strange how throughout all these last days Maggie had been
looking forward to that event with dread. There was no definite reason for fear; in London
Grace had been kindness itself and had shown real affection for Maggie. Within the last week
she had written two very affectionate letters. What was this, then, that hung and hovered?
It was in the very air of the house and the garden and the place. Grace had left her mark upon
everything and every one, even upon the meagre person of Mitch the dog. Especially upon Mitch,
a miserable creeping fox-terrier with no spirits and a tendency to tremble all over when you
called him. He had attached himself to Maggie, which was strange, because animals were not,
as a rule, interested in her. Mitch followed her about, looking up at her with a yellow supplicating
eye. She didn't like him and she would be glad when Grace collected him again--but why did
he tremble?

She realised, in the way that she had of seeing further than her nose, that Grace was going
to affect the whole of her relations with Paul, and, indeed, all her future life. She had not
realised that in London. Grace had seemed harmless there and unimportant. Already here in Skeaton
she seemed to stand for a whole scheme of life.

Maggie had moved and altered a good many of the things in the house. She had discovered a small
attic, and into this she had piled pell-mell a number of photographs, cheap reproductions,
cushions, worsted mats, and china ornaments. She had done it gaily and with a sense of clearing
the air.

Now as Grace's hour approached she was not so sure.

"Well, I'm not afraid," she reassured herself with her favourite defiance. "She can't eat me.
And it's my house."

Paul had not noticed the alterations. He was always blind to his surroundings unless they were
what he called "queer."

There was the rattle of the cab-wheels on the drive and a moment later Grace was in the hall.

"Dear Paul--Maggie, dear ..."

She stood there, a very solid and assured figure. She was square and thick and reminded Maggie
to-day of Mrs. Noah; her clothes stood cut out around her as though they had been cut in wood.
She had her large amiable smile, and the kiss that she gave Maggie was a wet, soft, and very
friendly one.

"Now I think I'll have tea at once without taking my hat off. In Paul's study? That's nice
... Maggie, dear, how are you? Such a journey! But astonishing! Just fancy! I got into Charing
Cross and then--! Why! Here's the study! Fancy! ... Maggie, dear, how are you? Well? That's
right. Why, there's tea! That's right. Everything just as it was. Fancy! ..." She took off
her gloves, smiled, seated herself more comfortably, then began to look about the room. Suddenly
there came: "Why, Paul, where's the Emmanuel football group?"

There was a moment's silence. Maggie felt her heart give a little bump, as it seemed to her,
right against the roof of her mouth. Paul (so like him) had not noticed that the football group
had vanished. He stared at the blank place on the wall where it had once been.

"Why, Grace ... I don't know. I never noticed it wasn't there."

"I took it down," said Maggie. "I thought there were too many photographs. It's in the attic."

"In the attic? ... Fancy! You put it away, did you, Maggie? Well, fancy! Shan't I make the
tea, Maggie, dear? That tea-pot, it's an old friend of mine. I know how to manage it."

They changed seats. Grace was as amiable as ever, but now her eyes flashed about from place
to place all around the room.

"Why, this is a new kind of jam. How nice! As I was saying, I got into Charing Cross and there
wasn't a porter. Just fancy! At least there was a porter, an old man, but when I beckoned to
him he wouldn't move. Well, I was angry. I can tell you, Paul, I wasn't going to stand that,
so I-what nice jam, dear. I never knew Mitchell's had jam like this!"

"I didn't get it at Mitchell's," said Maggie. "I've changed the grocer. Mitchell hasn't got
anything, and his prices are just about double Brownjohn's ..."

"Brownjohn!" Grace stared, her bread and jam suspended. "Brownjohn! But, Maggie dear, he's
a dissenter."

"Oh. Maggie!" said Paul. "You should have told me!"

"Why!" said Maggie, bewildered. "Father never minded about dissenters. Our butcher in St. Dreot's
was an atheist and--"

"Well, well," said Grace, her eyes still flashing about like goldfish in a pool. "You didn't
know, dear. Of course you didn't. I'm sure we can put it right with Mitchell, although he's
a sensitive man. I'll go and see him in the morning. I am glad I'm back. Well, I was telling
you ... Where was I? ... about the porter--"

Something drove Maggie to say:

"I'd rather have a good grocer who's a dissenter than a bad one who goes to church--"

"Maggie," said Paul, "you don't know what you're saying. You don't realise what the effect
in the parish would be."

"Of course she doesn't," said Grace consolingly. "She'll understand in time. As I was saying,
I was so angry that I caught the old man by the arm and I said to him, 'If you think you're
paid to lean up against a wall and not do your duty you're mightily mistaken, and if you aren't
careful I'll report you--that's what I'll do,' and he said--what were his exact words? I'll
remember in a minute. I know he was very insulting, and the taxi-cabman--why, Paul, where's
mother's picture?"

Grace's eyes were directed to a large space high above the mantelpiece. Maggie remembered that
there had been a big faded oil-painting of an old lady in a shawl and spectacles, a hideous
affair she had thought it. That was now reposing in the attic. Why had she not known that it
was a picture of Paul's mother? She would never have touched it had she known. Why had Paul
said nothing? He had not even noticed that it was gone.

Paul stared, amazed and certainly--yes, beyond question--frightened.

"Grace--upon my word--I've been so busy since my return--"

"Is that also in the attic?" asked Grace.

"Yes, it is," said Maggie. "I'm so sorry. I never knew it was your mother. It wasn't a very
good painting I thought, so I took it down. If I had known, of course, I never would have touched
it. Oh Grace, I AM so sorry."

"It's been there," said Grace, "for nearly twenty years. What I mean to say is that it's always
been there. Poor mother. Are there many things in the attic, Maggie?"

At that moment there was a feeble scratching on the door. Paul, evidently glad of anything
that would relieve the situation, opened the door.

"Why, it's Mitch!" cried Grace, forgetting for the moment her mother. "Fancy! It's Mitch! Mitch,
dear! Was she glad to see her old friend back again? Was she? Darling! Fancy seeing her old
friend again? Was she wanting her back?"

Mitch stood shivering in the doorway, then, with her halting step, the skin of her back wrinkled
with anxiety, she crossed the room. For a moment she hesitated, then with shamefaced terror,
slunk to Maggie, pressed up against her, and sat there huddled, staring at Grace with yellow
unfriendly eyes.

CHAPTER IV

GRACE

Not in a day and not in a night did Maggie find a key to that strange confusion of fears, superstitions,
and self-satisfactions that was known to the world as Grace Trenchard. Perhaps she never found
it, and through all the struggle and conflict in which she was now to be involved she was fighting,
desperately, in the dark. Fight she did, and it was this same conflict, bitter and tragic enough
at the time, that transformed her into the woman that she became ... and through all that conflict
it may be truly said of her that she never knew a moment's bitterness--anger, dismay, loneliness,
even despair-bitterness never.

It was not strange that Maggie did not understand Grace; Grace never understood herself nor
did she make the slightest attempt to do so. It would be easy enough to cover the ground at
once by saying that she had no imagination, that she never went behind the thing that she saw,
and that she found the grasping of external things quite as much as she could manage. But that
is not enough. Very early indeed, when she had been a stolid-faced little girl with a hot desire
for the doll possessed by her neighbour, she had had for nurse a woman who rejoiced in supernatural
events. With ghost stories of the most terrifying kind she besieged Grace's young heart and
mind. The child had never imagination enough to visualise these stories in the true essence,
but she seized upon external detail-the blue lights, the white shimmering garments, the moon
and the church clock, the clanking chain and the stain of blood upon the board.

These things were not for her, and indeed did she allow her fancy to dwell, for a moment, upon
them she was besieged at once by so horrid a panic that she lost all control and self-possession.
She therefore very quickly put those things from her and thenceforth lived in the world as
in a castle surrounded by a dark moat filled with horrible and slimy creatures who would raise
a head at her did she so much as glance their way.

She decided then never to look, and from a very early age those quarters of life became to
her "queer," indecent, and dangerous. All the more she fastened her grip upon the things that
she could see and hold, and these things repaid her devotion by never deceiving her or pretending
to be what they were not. She believed intensely in forms and repetitions; she liked everything
to be where she expected it to be, people to say the things that she expected them to say,
clocks to strike at the right time, and trains to be up to the minute. With all this she could
never be called an accurate or careful woman. She was radically stupid, stupid in the real
sense of the word, so that her mind did not grasp a new thought or fact until it had been repeated
to her again and again, so that she had no power of expressing herself, and a deep inaccuracy
about everything and every one which she endeavoured to cover by a stream of aimless lies that
deceived no one. She would of course have been very indignant had any one told her that she
was stupid. She hated what she called "clever people" and never had them near her if she could
help it. She was instantly suspicious of any one who liked ideas or wanted anything changed.
With all this she was of an extreme obstinacy and a deep, deep jealousy. She clung to what
she had with the tenacity of a mollusc. What she had was in the main Paul, and her affection
for him was a very real human quality in her.

He was exactly what she would have chosen had she been allowed at the beginning a free choice.
He was lazy and good-tempered so that he yielded to her on every possible point, he was absolutely
orthodox and never shocked her by a thought or a word out of the ordinary, he really loved
her and believed in her and said, quite truly, that he would not have known what to do without her.

It seems strange then that it should have been in the main her urgency that led to the acquisition
of Maggie. During the last year she had begun to be seriously uneasy. Things were not what
they had been. Mrs. Constantine and others in the parish were challenging her authority, even
the Choir boys were scarcely so subservient as they had been, and, worst of all, Paul himself
was strangely restive and unquiet. He talked at times of getting married, wondered whether
she, Grace, wouldn't like some one to help her in the house, and even, on one terrifying occasion,
suggested leaving Skeaton altogether. A momentary vision of what it would be to live without
Paul, to give up her kingdom in Skeaton, to have to start all over again to acquire dominion
in some new place, was enough for Grace.

She must find Paul a wife, and she must find some one who would depend upon her, look up to
her, obey her, who would, incidentally, take some of the tiresome and monotonous drudgery off
her shoulders. The moment she saw Maggie she was resolved; here was just the creature, a mouse
of a girl, no parents, no money, no appearance, nothing to make her proud or above herself,
some one to be moulded and trained in the way she should go. To her great surprise she discovered
that Paul was at once attracted by Maggie: had she ever wondered at anything she would have
wondered at this, but she decided that it was because she herself had made the suggestion.
Dear Paul, he was always so eager to fall in with any of her proposals.

Her mind misgave her a little when she saw that he was really in love. What could he see in
that plain, gauche, uncharming creature? See something he undoubtedly did. However, that would
wear off very quickly. The Skeaton atmosphere was against romance and Paul was too lazy to
be in love very long. Once or twice in the weeks before the wedding Grace's suspicions were
aroused.

Maggie seemed to be an utter little heathen; also it appeared that she had had some strange
love affair that she had taken so seriously as actually to be ill over it. That was odd and
a little alarming, but the child was very young, and once married-there she'd be, so to speak!

It was not, in fact, until that evening of her arrival in Skeaton that she was seriously alarmed.
To say that that first ten minutes in Paul's study alarmed her is to put it mildly indeed.
As she looked at the place where her mother's portrait had been, as she stared at the trembling
Mitch cowering against Maggie's dress, she experienced the most terrifying, shattering upheaval
since the day when as a little girl of six she had been faced as she had fancied, with the
dripping ghost of her great-uncle William. Not at once, however, was the battle to begin. Maggie
gave way about everything. She gave way at first because she was so confident of getting what
she wanted later on. She never conceived that she was not to have final power in her own house;
Paul had as yet denied her nothing. She moved the pictures and the pots and the crochet work
down from the attic and replaced them where they had been-or, nearly replaced them. She found
it already rather amusing to puzzle Grace by changing their positions from day to day so that
Grace was bewildered and perplexed.

Grace said nothing--only solidly and with panting noises (she suffered from shortness of breath)
plodded up and down the house, reassuring herself that all her treasures were safe.

Maggie, in fact, enjoyed herself during the weeks immediately following Grace's return. Paul
seemed tranquil and happy; there were no signs of fresh outbreaks of the strange passion that
had so lately frightened her. Maggie herself found her duties in connection with the Church
and the house easier than she had expected. Every one seemed very friendly. Grace chattered
on with her aimless histories of unimportant events and patted Maggie's hand and smiled a great
deal. Surely all was very well. Perhaps this was the life for which Maggie was intended.

And that other life began to be dim and faint-even Martin was a little hidden and mysterious.
Strangely she was glad of that; the only way that this could be carried through was by keeping
the other out of it. Would the two worlds mingle? Would the faces and voices of those spirits
be seen and heard again? Would they leave Maggie now or plan to steal her back? The whole future
of her life depended on the answer to that ...

During those weeks she investigated Skeaton very thoroughly. She found that her Skeaton, the
Skeaton of Fashion and the Church, was a very small affair consisting of two rows of villas,
some detached houses that trickled into the country, and a little clump of villas on a hill
over the sea beyond the town. There were not more than fifty souls all told in this regiment
of Fashion, and the leaders of the fifty were Mrs. Constantine, Mrs. Maxse, Miss Purves, a
Mrs. Tempest (a large black tragic creature), and Miss Grace Trenchard--and they had for their
male supporters Colonel Maxse, Mr. William Tempest, a Mr. Purdie (rich and idle), and the Reverend
Paul. Maggie discovered that the manners, habits, and even voices and gestures of this sacred
Fifty were all the same. The only question upon which they divided was one of residence. The
richer and finer division spent several weeks of the winter abroad in places like Nice and
Cannes, and the poorer contingent took their holiday from Skeaton in the summer in Glebeshire
or the Lake District. The Constantines and the Maxses were very fine indeed because they went
both to Cannes in the winter and Scotland in the summer. It was wonderful, considering how
often Mrs. Constantine was away from Skeaton, how solemn and awe-inspiring an impression she
made and retained in the Skeaton world. Maggie discovered that unless you had a large house
with independent grounds outside the town it was impossible to remain in Skeaton during the
summer months. Oh! the trippers! ...Oh! the trippers! Yes, they were terrible-swallowed up
the sands, eggshells, niggers, pierrots, bathing-machines, vulgarity, moonlight embracing,
noise, sand, and dust. If you were any one at all you did not stay in Skeaton during the summer
months-unless, as I have said, you were so grand that you could disregard it altogether.

It happened that these weeks were wet and windy and Maggie was blown about from one end of
the town to the other. There could be no denying that it was grim and ugly under these conditions.
It might be that when the spring came there would be flowers in the gardens and the trees would
break out into fresh green and the sands would gleam with mother-of-pearl and the sea would
glitter with sunshine. All that perhaps would come. Meanwhile there was not a house that was
not hideous, the wind tore screaming down the long beaches carrying with it a flurry of tempestuous
rain, whilst the sea itself moved in sluggish oily coils, dirt-grey to the grey horizon. Worst
of all perhaps were the deserted buildings at other times dedicated to gaiety, ghosts of places
they were with torn paper flapping against their sides and the wind tearing at their tin-plated
roofs. Then there was the desolate little station, having, it seemed, no connection with any
kind of traffic-and behind all this the woods howled and creaked and whistled, derisive, provocative,
the only creatures alive in all that world.

Between the Fashion and the Place the Church stood as a bridge.

Centuries ago, when Skeaton had been the merest hamlet clustered behind the beach, the Church
had been there-not the present building, looking, poor thing, as though it were in a perpetual
state of scarlet fever, but a shabby humble little chapel close to the sea sheltered by the
sandy hill.

The present temple had been built about 1870 and was considered very satisfactory. It was solid
and free from draughts and took the central heating very well. The graveyard also was new and
shiny, with no bones in it remoter than the memories of the present generation could compass.
The church clock was a very late addition--put up by subscription five years ago-and its clamour
was so up to date and smart that it was a cross between the whistle of a steam-engine and a
rich and prosperous dinner-bell.

All this was rightly felt to be very satisfactory. As Miss Purves said: "So far as the dear
Church goes, no one had any right to complain about anything."

When Maggie had first arrived in Skeaton her duties with regard to the Church were made quite
plain to her. She was expected to take one of the classes in Sunday school, to attend Choir
practice on Friday evening, to be on the Committees for Old Women's Comforts, Our Brave Lads'
Guild, and the Girls' Friendly Society, to look after the flowers for the Altar, and to attend
Paul's Bible Class on Wednesdays.

She had no objection to any of these things-they were, after all, part of her "job." She found
that they amused her, and her life must be full, full, full. "No time to think--No time to
think," some little voice far, far within her cried. But on Grace's return difficulties at
once arose. Grace had, hitherto, done all these things. She had, as she called it, "Played
a large part in the life of our Church." She was bored with them all, the Choir practices,
the Committees, the Altar flowers, and the rest; she was only too pleased that Maggie should
do the hard work--it was quite fair that she, Grace, should have a rest. At the same time she
did not at all want to surrender the power that doing these things had given her. She did not
wish Maggie to take her place, but she wanted her to support the burden-very difficult this
especially if you are not good at "thinking things out."

Grace never could "think things out." It seemed as though her thoughts loved wilfully to tease
and confuse her. Then when she was completely tangled, and bewildered, her temper rose, slowly,
stealthily, but with a mighty force behind it; suddenly as a flood bursts the walls that have
been trying to resist it, it would sweep the chambers of her mind, submerging, drowning the
flock of panic-stricken little ideas.

