Hansford:

A TALE OF BACON'S REBELLION.

BY ST. GEORGE TUCKER.

    Rebellion! foul dishonouring word—
      Whose wrongful blight so oft has stained
    The holiest cause that, tongue or sword
      Of mortal ever lost or gained.
    How many a spirit, born to bless,
      Hath sank beneath that withering name;
    Whom but a day's, an hour's success,
      Had wafted to eternal fame!
                                      MOORE.

RICHMOND, VA.: PUBLISHED BY GEORGE M. WEST BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO. 1857.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, BY GEORGE M. WEST, In the Clerk's Office
of the District Court of Virginia.

PREFACE.

It is the design of the author, in the following pages, to illustrate the period of our colonial
history, to which the story relates, and to show that this early struggle for freedom was the
morning harbinger of that blessed light, which has since shone more and more unto the perfect day.

Most of the characters introduced have their existence in real history—Hansford lived, acted
and died in the manner here narrated, and a heart as pure and true as Virginia Temple's mourned
his early doom.

In one of those quaint old tracts, which the indefatigable antiquary, Peter Force, has rescued
from oblivion, it is stated that Thomas Hansford, although a son of Mars, did sometimes worship
at the shrine of Venus. It was his unwillingness to separate forever from the object of his
love that led to his arrest, while lurking near her residence in Gloucester. From the meagre
materials furnished by history of the celebrated rebellion of Nathaniel Bacon the following
story has been woven.

It were an object to be desired, both to author and to reader, that the fate of Thomas Hansford
had been different. This could not be but by a direct violation of history. Yet the lesson
taught in this simple story, it is hoped, is not without its uses to humanity. Though vice
may triumph for a season, and virtue fail to meet its appropriate reward, yet nothing can confer
on the first, nor snatch from the last, that substantial happiness which is ever afforded to
the mind conscious of rectitude. The self-conviction which stings the vicious mind would make
a diadem a crown of thorns. The mens sibi conscia recti can make a gallows as triumphant as
a throne. Such is the moral which the author designs to convey. If a darker punishment awaits
the guilty, or a purer reward is in reserve for the virtuous, we must look for them to that
righteous Judge, whose hand wields at once the sceptre of mercy and the sword of justice.

And now having prepared this brief preface, to stand like a portico before his simple edifice,
the author would cordially and respectfully make his bow, and invite his guests to enter. If
his little volume is read, he will be amply repaid; if approved, he will be richly rewarded.

HANSFORD.

CHAPTER 1.

    “The rose of England bloomed on Gertrude's cheek;
    What though these shades had seen her birth? Her sire
    A Briton's independence taught to seek
    Far western worlds.”
                        Gertrude of Wyoming.

Among those who had been driven, by the disturbances in England, to seek a more quiet home
in the wilds of Virginia, was a gentleman of the name of Temple. An Englishman by birth, he
was an unwilling spectator of the revolution which erected the dynasty of Cromwell upon the
ruins of the British monarchy. He had never been able to divest his mind of that loyal veneration
in which Charles Stuart was held by so many of his subjects, whose better judgments, if consulted,
would have prompted them to unite with the revolutionists. But it was a strong principle with
that noble party, who have borne in history the distinguished name of Cavaliers, rarely to
consult the dictates of reason in questions of ancient prejudice. They preferred rather to
err blindly with the long line of their loyal forbears in submission to tyranny, than to subvert
the ancient principles of government in the attainment of freedom. They saw no difference between
the knife of the surgeon and the sword of the destroyer—between the wholesome medicine, administered
to heal, and the deadly poison, given to destroy.

Nor are these strong prejudices without their value in the administration of government, while
they are absolutely essential to the guidance of a revolution. They retard and moderate those
excesses which they cannot entirely control, and even though unable to avoid the descensus
Averni, they render that easy descent less fatal and destructive. Nor is there anything in
the history of revolutions more beautiful than this steady adherence to ancient principles—this
faithful devotion to a fallen prince, when all others have forsaken him and fled. While man
is capable of enjoying the blessings of freedom, the memory of Hampden will be cherished and
revered; and yet there is something scarcely less attractive in the disinterested loyalty,
the generous self-denial, of the devoted Hyde, who left the comforts of home, the pride of
country and the allurements of fame, to join in the lonely wanderings of the banished Stuart.

When at last the revolution was accomplished, and Charles and the hopes of the Stuarts seemed
to sleep in the same bloody grave, Colonel Temple, unwilling longer to remain under the government
of a usurper, left England for Virginia, to enjoy in the quiet retirement of this infant colony,
the peace and tranquillity which was denied him at home. From this, the last resting place
of the standard of loyalty, he watched the indications of returning peace, and with a proud
and grateful heart he hailed the advent of the restoration. For many years an influential member
of the House of Burgesses, he at last retired from the busy scenes of political life to his
estate in Gloucester, which, with a touching veneration for the past, he called Windsor Hall.
Here, happy in the retrospection of a well spent life, and cheered and animated by the affection
of a devoted wife and lovely daughter, the old Loyalist looked forward with a tranquil heart
to the change which his increasing years warned him could not be far distant.

His wife, a notable dame of the olden time, who was selected, like the wife of the good vicar,
for the qualities which wear best, was one of those thrifty, bountiful bodies, who care but
little for the government under which they live, so long as their larders are well stored with
provisions, and those around them are happy and contented. Possessed of a good mind, and of
a kind heart, she devoted herself to the true objects of a woman's life, and reigned supreme
at home. Even when her husband had been immersed in the cares and stirring events of the revolution,
and she was forced to hear the many causes of complaint urged against the government and stoutly
combatted by the Colonel, the good dame had felt far more interest in market money than in
ship money—in the neatness of her own chamber, than in the purity of the Star Chamber—and,
in short, forgot the great principles of political economy in her love for the more practical
science of domestic economy. We have said that at home Mrs. Temple reigned supreme, and so
indeed she did. Although the good Colonel held the reins, she showed him the way to go, and
though he was the nominal ruler of his little household, she was the power behind the throne,
which even the throne submissively acknowledged to be greater than itself.

Yet, for all this, Mrs. Temple was an excellent woman, and devoted to her husband's interests.
Perhaps it was but natural that, although with a willing heart, and without a murmur, she had
accompanied him to Virginia, she should, with a laudable desire to impress him with her real
worth, advert more frequently than was agreeable to the heavy sacrifice which she had made.
Nay more, we have but little doubt that the bustle and self-annoyance, the flurry and bluster,
which always attended her domestic preparations, were considered as a requisite condiment to
give relish to her food. We are at least certain of this, that her frequent strictures on the
dress, and criticisms on the manners of her husband, arose from her real pride, and from her
desire that to the world he should appear the noble perfection which he was to her. This the
good Colonel fully understood, and though sometimes chafed by her incessant taunts, he knew
her real worth, and had long since learned to wear his fetters as an ornament.

Since their arrival in Virginia, Heaven had blessed the happy pair with a lovely daughter—a
bliss for which they long had hoped and prayed, but hoped and prayed in vain. If hope deferred,
however, maketh the heart sick, it loses none of its freshness and delight when it is at last
realized, and the fond hearts of her parents were overflowing with love for this their only
child. At the time at which our story commences, Virginia Temple (she was called after the
fair young colony which gave her birth) had just completed her nineteenth year. Reared for
the most part in the retirement of the country, she was probably not possessed of those artificial
manners, which disguise rather than adorn the gay butterflies that flutter in the fashionable
world, and which passes for refinement; but such conventional proprieties no more resemble
the innate refinement of soul which nature alone can impart, than the plastered rouge of an
old faded dowager resembles the native rose which blushes on a healthful maiden's cheek. There
was in lieu of all this, in the character of Virginia Temple, a freshness of feeling and artless
frankness, and withal a refined delicacy of sentiment and expression, which made the fair young
girl the pride and the ornament of the little circle in which she moved.

Under the kind tuition of her father, who, in his retired life, delighted to train her mind
in wholesome knowledge, she possessed a great advantage over the large majority of her sex,
whose education, at that early period, was wofully deficient. Some there were indeed (and in
this respect the world has not changed much in the last two centuries), who were tempted to
sneer at accomplishments superior to their own, and to hint that a book-worm and a bluestocking
would never make a useful wife. But such envious insinuations were overcome by the care of
her judicious mother, who spared no pains to rear her as a useful as well as an accomplished
woman. With such a fortunate education, Virginia grew up intelligent, useful and beloved; and
her good old father used often to say, in his bland, gentle manner, that he knew not whether
his little Jeanie was more attractive when, with her favorite authors, she stored her mind
with refined and noble sentiments, or when, in her little check apron and plain gingham dress,
she assisted her busy mother in the preparation of pickles and preserves.

There was another source of happiness to the fair Virginia, in which she will be more apt to
secure the sympathy of our gentler readers. Among the numerous suitors who sought her hand,
was one who had early gained her heart, and with none of the cruel crosses, as yet, which the
young and inexperienced think add piquancy to the bliss of love; with the full consent of her
parents, she had candidly acknowledged her preference, and plighted her troth, with all the
sincerity of her young heart, to the noble, the generous, the brave Thomas Hansford.

CHAPTER II.

    “Heaven forming each on other to depend,
    A master, or a servant, or a friend,
    Bids each on other for assistance call,
    Till one man's weakness grows the strength of all.
    Wants, frailties, passions, closer still ally
    The common interest, or endear the tie.
    To these we owe true friendship, love sincere,
    Each homefelt joy that life inherits here.”
                                            Essay on Man.

Begirt with love and blessed with contentment, the little family at Windsor Hall led a life
of quiet, unobtrusive happiness. In truth, if there be a combination of circumstances peculiarly
propitious to happiness, it will be found to cluster around one of those old colonial plantations,
which formed each within itself a little independent barony. There first was the proprietor,
the feudal lord, proud of his Anglo-Saxon blood, whose ambition was power and personal freedom,
and whose highest idea of wealth was in the possession of the soil he cultivated. A proud feeling
was it, truly, to claim a portion of God's earth as his own; to stand upon his own land, and
looking around, see his broad acres bounded only by the blue horizon walls,[1] and feel in
its full force the whole truth of the old law maxim, that he owned not only the surface of
the soil, but even to the centre of the earth, and the zenith of the heavens.[2] There can
be but little doubt that the feelings suggested by such reflections are in the highest degree
favorable to the development of individual freedom, so peculiar to the Anglo-Saxon race, and
so stoutly maintained, especially among an agricultural people. This respect for the ownership
of land is illustrated by the earliest legislation, which held sacred the title to the soil
even from the grasp of the law, and which often restrained the freeholder from alienating his
land from the lordly but unborn aristocrat to whom it should descend.

Next in the scale of importance in this little baronial society, were the indented servants,
who, either for felony or treason, were sent over to the colony, and bound for a term of years
to some one of the planters. In some cases, too, the poverty of the emigrant induced him to
submit voluntarily to indentures with the captain of the ship which brought him to the colony,
as some compensation for his passage. These servants, we learn, had certain privileges accorded
to them, which were not enjoyed by the slave: the service of the former was only temporary,
and after the expiration of their term they became free citizens of the colony. The female
servants, too, were limited in their duties to such employments as are generally assigned to
women, such as cooking, washing and housework; while it was not unusual to see the negro women,
as even now, in many portions of the State, managing the plough, hoeing the maize, worming
and stripping the tobacco, and harvesting the grain. The colonists had long remonstrated against
the system of indented servants, and denounced the policy which thus foisted upon an infant
colony the felons and the refuse population of the mother country. But, as was too often the
case, their petitions and remonstrances were treated with neglect, or spurned with contempt.
Besides being distasteful to them as freemen and Cavaliers, the indented servants had already
evinced a restlessness under restraint, which made them dangerous members of the body politic.
In 1662, a servile insurrection was secretly organized, which had well nigh proved fatal to
the colony. The conspiracy was however betrayed by a certain John Berkenhead, one of the leaders
in the movement, who was incited to the revelation by the hope of reward for his treachery;
nor was the hope vain. Grateful for their deliverance, the Assembly voted this man his liberty,
compensated his master for the loss of his services, and still further rewarded him by a bounty
of five thousand pounds of tobacco. Of this reckless and abandoned wretch, we will have much
to say hereafter.

Another feature in this patriarchal system of government was the right of property in those
inferior races of men, who from their nature are incapable of a high degree of liberty, and
find their greatest development, and their truest happiness, in a condition of servitude. Liberty
is at last a reward to be attained after a long struggle, and not the inherent right of every
man. It is the sword which becomes a weapon of power and defence in the hands of the strong,
brave, rational man, but a dangerous plaything when entrusted to the hands of madmen or children.
And thus, by the mysterious government of Him, who rules the earth in righteousness, has it
been wisely ordained, that they only who are worthy of freedom shall permanently possess it.

The mutual relations established by the institution of domestic slavery were beneficial to
both parties concerned. The Anglo-Saxon baron possessed power, which he has ever craved, and
concentration and unity of will, which was essential to its maintenance. But that power was
tempered, and that will controlled, by the powerful motives of policy, as well as by the dictates
of justice and mercy. The African serf, on the other hand, was reduced to slavery, which, from
his very nature, he is incapable of despising; and an implicit obedience to the will of his
master was essential to the preservation of the relation. But he, too, derived benefits from
the institution, which he has never acquired in any other condition; and trusting to the justice,
and relying on the power of his master to provide for his wants, he lived a contented and therefore
a happy life. Improvident himself by nature, his children were reared without his care, through
the helpless period of infancy, while he was soothed and cheered in the hours of sickness,
and protected and supported in his declining years. The history of the world does not furnish
another example of a laboring class who could rely with confidence on such wages as competency
and contentment.

In a new colony, where there was but little attraction as yet, for tradesmen to emigrate, the
home of the planter became still more isolated and independent. Every landholder had not only
the slaves to cultivate his soil and to attend to his immediate wants, but he had also slaves
educated and skilled in various trades. Thus, in this busy hive, the blaze of the forge was
seen and the sound of the anvil was heard, in repairing the different tools and utensils of
the farm; the shoemaker was found at his last, the spinster at her wheel, and the weaver at
the loom. Nor has this system of independent reliance on a plantation for its own supplies
been entirely superseded at the present day. There may still be found, in some sections of
Virginia, plantations conducted on this principle, where the fleece is sheared, and the wool
is carded, spun, woven and made into clothing by domestic labor, and where a few groceries
and finer fabrics of clothing are all that are required, by the independent planter, from the
busy world beyond his little domain.

Numerous as were the duties and responsibilities that devolved upon the planter, he met them
with cheerfulness and discharged them with faithfulness. The dignity of the master was blended
with the kind attention of the friend on the one hand, and the obedience of the slave, with
the fidelity of a grateful dependent, on the other. And thus was illustrated, in their true
beauty, the blessings of that much abused but happy institution, which should ever remain,
as it has ever been placed by the commentators of our law, next in position, as it is in interest,
to the tender relation of parent and child.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The immense grants taken up by early patentees, in this country, justifies this language,
which might otherwise seem an extravagant hyperbole.

[2] Cujus est solum, ejus est usque ad cœlum.

CHAPTER III.

A pleasant home was that old Windsor Hall, with its broad fields in cultivation around it,
and the dense virgin forest screening it from distant view, with the carefully shaven sward
on the velvet lawn in front, and the tall forest poplars standing like sentries in front of
the house, and the venerable old oak tree at the side, with the rural wooden bench beneath
it, where Hansford and Virginia used to sit and dream of future happiness, while the tame birds
were singing sweetly to their mates in the green branches above them. And the house, too, with
its quaint old frame, its narrow windows, and its substantial furniture, all brought from England
and put down here in this new land for the comfort of the loyal old colonist. It had been there
for years, that old house, and the moss and lichen had fastened on its shelving roof, and the
luxuriant vine had been trained to clamber closely by its sides, exposing its red trumpet flowers
to the sun; while the gay humming-bird, with her pretty dress of green and gold, sucked their
honey with her long bill, and fluttered her little wings in the mild air so swiftly that you
could scarcely see them. Then there was that rude but comfortable old porch, destined to as
many uses as the chest of drawers in the tavern of the Deserted Village. Protected by its sheltering
roof alike from rain and sunshine, it was often used, in the mild summer weather, as a favorite
sitting-room, and sometimes, too, converted into a dining-room. There, too, might be seen,
suspended from the nails and wooden pegs driven into the locust pillars, long specimen ears
of corn, samples of grain, and different garden seeds tied up in little linen bags; and in
the strange medley, Mrs. Temple had hung some long strings of red pepper-pods, sovereign specifics
in cases of sore throat, but which seemed, among so many objects of greater interest, to blush
with shame at their own inferiority. It was not yet the season when the broad tobacco leaf,
brown with the fire of curing, was exhibited, and formed the chief staple of conversation,
as well as of trade, with the old crony planters. The wonderful plant was just beginning to
suffer from the encroaches of the worm, the only animal, save man, which is life-proof against
the deadly nicotine of this cultivated poison.

In this old porch the little family was gathered on a beautiful evening towards the close of
June, in the year 1676. The sun, not yet set, was just sinking below the tall forest, and was
dancing and flickering gleefully among the trees, as if rejoicing that he had nearly finished
his long day's journey. Colonel Temple had just returned from his evening survey of his broad
fields of tobacco, and was quietly smoking his pipe, for, like most of his fellow colonists,
he was an inveterate consumer of this home production. His good wife was engaged in knitting,
an occupation now almost fallen into disuse among ladies, but then a very essential part of
the duties of a large plantation. Virginia, with her tambour frame before her, but which she
had neglected in the reverie of her own thoughts, was caressing the noble St. Bernard dog which
lay at her feet, who returned her caresses by a grateful whine, as he licked the small white
hand of his mistress. This dog, a fine specimen of that noble breed, was a present from Hansford,
and for that reason, as well as for his intrinsic merits, was highly prized, and became her
constant companion in her woodland rambles in search of health and wild flowers. With all the
vanity of a conscious favorite, Nestor regarded with well bred contempt the hounds that stalked
in couples about the yard, in anxious readiness for the next chase.

As the young girl was thus engaged, there was an air of sadness in her whole mien—such a stranger
to her usually bright, happy face, that it did not escape her father's notice.

“Why, Jeanie,” he said, in the tender manner which he always used towards her, “you are strangely
silent this evening. Has anything gone wrong with my little daughter?”

“No, father,” she replied, “at least nothing that I am conscious of. We cannot be always gay
or sad at our pleasure, you know.”

“Nay, but at least,” said the old gentleman, “Nestor has been disobedient, or old Giles is
sick, or you have been working yourself into a sentimental sadness over Lady Willoughby's[3]
troubles.”

“No, dear father; though, in reality, that melancholy story might well move a stouter heart
than mine.”

“Well, confess then,” said her father, “that, like the young French gentleman in Prince Arthur's
days, you are sad as night only for wantonness. But what say you, mother, has anything gone
wrong in household affairs to cross Virginia?”

“No, Mr. Temple,” said the old lady. “Certainly, if Virginia is cast down at the little she
has to do, I don't know what ought to become of me. But that's a matter of little consequence.
Old people have had their day, and needn't expect much sympathy.”

“Indeed, dear mother,” said Virginia, “I do not complain of anything that I have to do. I know
that you do not entrust as much to me as you ought, or as I wish. I assure you, that if anything
has made me sad, it is not you, dear mother,” she added, as she tenderly kissed her mother.

“Oh, I know that, my dear; but your father seems to delight in always charging me with whatever
goes wrong. Goodness knows, I toil from Monday morning till Saturday night for you all, and
this is all the thanks I get. And if I were to work my old fingers to the bone, it would be
all the same. Well, it won't last always.”

To this assault Colonel Temple knew the best plan was not to reply. He had learned from sad
experience the truth of the old adages, that “breath makes fire hotter,” and that “the least
said is soonest mended.” He only signified his consciousness of what had been said by a quiet
shrug of the shoulders, and then resumed his conversation with Virginia.

“Well then, my dear, I am at a loss to conjecture the cause of your sadness, and must throw
myself upon your indulgence to tell me or not, as you will. I don't think you ever lost anything
by confiding in your old father.”

“I know I never did,” said Virginia, with a gentle sigh, “and it is for the very reason that
you always make my foolish little sorrows your own, that I am unwilling to trouble you with
them. But really, on the present occasion—I scarcely know what to tell you.”

“Then why that big pearl in your eye?” returned her father. “Ah, you little rogue, I have found
you out at last. Mother, I have guessed the riddle. Somebody has not been here as often lately
as he should. Now confess, you silly girl, that I have guessed your secret.”

The big tears that swam in his daughter's blue eyes, and then rolling down, dried themselves
upon her cheek, told the truth too plainly to justify denial.

“I really think Virginia has some reason to complain,” said her mother. “It is now nearly three
weeks since Mr. Hansford was here. A young lawyer's business don't keep him so much employed
as to prevent these little courteous attentions.”

“We used to be more attentive in our day, didn't we, old lady?” said Colonel Temple, as he
kissed his good wife's cheek.

This little demonstration entirely wiped away the remembrance of her displeasure. She returned
the salutation with an affectionate smile, as she replied,

“Yes, indeed, Henry; if there was less sentiment, there was more real affection in those days.
Love was more in the heart then, and less out of books, than now.”

“Oh, but we were not without our little sentiments, too. Virginia, it would have done you good
to have seen how gaily your mother danced round the May-pole, with her courtly train, as the
fair queen of them all; and how I, all ruffs and velvet, at the head of the boys, and on bended
knee, begged her majesty to accept the homage of our loyal hearts. Don't you remember, Bessy,
the grand parliament, when we voted you eight subsidies, and four fifteenths to be paid in
flowers and candy, for your grand coronation?”

“Oh, yes!” said the old lady; “and then the coronation itself, with the throne made of the
old master's desk, all nicely carpeted and decorated with flowers and evergreen; and poor Billy
Newton, with his long, solemn face, a paste-board mitre, and his sister's night-gown for a
pontifical robe, acting the Archbishop of Canterbury, and placing the crown upon my head!”

“And the game of Barley-break in the evening,” said the Colonel, fairly carried away by the
recollections of these old scenes, “when you and I, hand in hand, pretended only to catch the
rest, and preferred to remain together thus, in what we called the hell, because we felt that
it was a heaven to us.”[4]

“Oh, fie, for shame!” said the old lady. “Ah, well, they don't have such times now-a-days.”

“No, indeed,” said her husband; “old Noll came with his nasal twang and puritanical cant, and
dethroned May-queens as well as royal kings, and his amusements were only varied by a change
from a hypocritical sermon to a psalm-singing conventicle.”

Thus the old folks chatted on merrily, telling old stories, which, although Virginia had heard
them a hundred times and knew them all by heart, she loved to hear again. She had almost forgotten
her own sadness in this occupation of her mind, when her father said—

“But, Bessy, we had almost forgotten, in our recollections of the past, that our little Jeanie
needs cheering up. You should remember, my daughter, that if there were any serious cause for
Mr. Hansford's absence, he would have written to you. Some trivial circumstance, or some matter
of business, has detained him from day to day. He will be here to-morrow, I have no doubt.”

“I know I ought not to feel anxious,” said Virginia, her lip quivering with emotion; “he has
so much to do, not only in his profession, but his poor old mother needs his presence a great
deal now; she was far from well when he was last here.”

“Well, I respect him for that,” said her mother. “It is too often the case with these young
lovers, that when they think of getting married, and doing for themselves, the poor old mothers
are laid on the shelf.”

“And yet,” continued Virginia, “I have a kind of presentiment that all may not be right with
him. I know it is foolish, but I can't—I can't help it?”

“These presentiments, my child,” said her father, who was not without some of the superstition
of the time, “although like dreams, often sent by the Almighty for wise purposes, are more
often but the phantasies of the imagination. The mind, when unable to account for circumstances
by reason, is apt to torment itself with its own fancy—and this is wrong, Jeanie.”

“I know all this,” replied Virginia, “and yet have no power to prevent it. But,” she added,
smiling through her tears, “I will endeavor to be more cheerful, and trust for better things.”

“That's a good girl; I assure you I would rather hear you laugh once than to see you cry a
hundred times,” said the old man, repeating a witticism that Virginia had heard ever since
her childish trials and tears over broken dolls or tangled hair. The idea was so grotesque
and absurd, that the sweet girl laughed until she cried again.

“Besides,” added her father, “I heard yesterday that that pestilent fellow, Bacon, was in arms
again, and it may be necessary for Berkeley to use some harsh means to punish his insolence.
I would not be at all surprised if Hansford were engaged in this laudable enterprise.”

“God, in his mercy, forbid,” said Virginia, in a faint voice.

“And why, my daughter? Would you shrink from lending the services of him you love to your country,
in her hour of need?”

“But the danger, father!”

“There can be but little danger in an insurrection like this. Strong measures will soon suppress
it. Nay, the very show of organized and determined resistance will strike terror into the white
hearts of these cowardly knaves. But if this were not so, the duty would be only stronger.”

“Yes, Virginia,” said her mother. “No one knows more than I, how hard it is for a woman to
sacrifice her selfish love to her country. But in my day we never hesitated, and I was happy
in my tears, when I saw your father going forth to fight for his king and country. There was
none of your 'God forbid' then, and you need not expect to be more free from trials than those
who have gone before you.”

There was no real unkindness meant in this speech of Mrs. Temple, but, as we have before reminded
the reader, she took especial delight in magnifying her own joys and her own trials, and in
making an invidious comparison of the present day with her earlier life, always to the prejudice
of the former. Tenderly devoted to her daughter, and deeply sympathizing in her distress, she
yet could not forego the pleasure of reverting to the time when she too had similar misfortunes,
which she had borne with such exemplary fortitude. To be sure, this heroism existed only in
the dear old lady's imagination, for no one gave way to trials with more violent grief than
she. Virginia, though accustomed to her mother's peculiar temper, was yet affected by her language,
and her tears flowed afresh.

“Cheer up, my daughter,” said her father, “these tears are not only unworthy of you, but they
are uncalled for now. This is at last but conjecture of mine, and I have no doubt that Hansford
is well and as happy as he can be away from you. But you would have proved a sad heroine in
the revolution. I don't think you would imitate successfully the bravery and patriotism of
Lady Willoughby, whose memoirs you have been reading. Oh! that was a day for heroism, when
mothers devoted their sons, and wives their husbands, to the cause of England and of loyalty,
almost without a tear.”

“I thank God,” said the weeping girl, “that he has not placed me in such trying scenes. With
all my admiration for the courage of my ancestors, I have no ambition to suffer their dangers
and distress.”

“Well, my dear,” replied her father, “I trust you may never be called upon to do so. But if
such should be your fate, I also trust that you have a strong heart, which would bear you through
the trial. Come now, dry your tears, and let me hear you sing that old favorite of mine, written
by poor Dick Lovelace. His Lucasta[5] must have been something of the same mind as my Virginia,
if she reproved him for deserting her for honour.”

“Oh, father, I feel the justice of your rebuke. I know that none but a brave woman deserves
the love of a brave man. Will you forgive me?”

“Forgive you, my daughter?—yes, if you have done anything to be forgiven. Your old father,
though his head is turned gray, has still a warm place in his heart for all your distresses,
my child; and that heart will be cold in death before it ceases to feel for you. But come,
I must not lose my song, either.”

