Impact tests are of considerable importance as an indication of how a metal will perform under
shock. Some engineers think that the tensile test, which is one made under slow loading, should
therefore be supplemented by another showing what will happen if the load is applied almost
instantaneously. This test, however, has not been standardized, and depends to a considerable
extent upon the type of machine, but more especially the size of the specimen and the way it
is "nicked." The machine is generally a swinging heavy pendulum. It falls a certain height,
strikes the sample at the lowest point, and swings on past. The difference between the downward
and upward swing is a measure of the energy it took to break the test piece.

FATIGUE TESTS

It has been known for fifty years that a beam or rod would fail at a relatively low stress
if only repeated often enough. It has been found, however, that each material possesses a limiting
stress, or endurance limit, within which it is safe, no matter how often the loading occurs.
That limiting stress for all steels so far investigated causes fracture below 10 million reversals.
In other words, a steel which will not break before 10,000,000 reversals can confidently be
expected to endure 100,000,000, and doubtless into the billions.

About the only way to test one piece such a large number of times is to fashion it into a beam,
load it, and then turn the beam in its supports. Thus the stress in the outer fibers of the
bar varies from a maximum stretch through zero to a maximum compression, and back again. A
simple machine of this sort is shown in Fig. 10, where B and E are bearings, A the test piece,
turned slightly down in the center, C and D ball bearings supporting a load W. K is a pulley
for driving the machine and N is a counter.

HARDNESS TESTING

The word "hardness" is used to express various properties of metals, and is measured in as
many different ways.

"Scratch hardness" is used by the geologist, who has constructed "Moh's scale" as follows:

  Talc      has a hardness of  1
  Rock Salt has a hardness of  2
  Calcite   has a hardness of  3
  Fluorite  has a hardness of  4
  Apatite   has a hardness of  5
  Feldspar  has a hardness of  6
  Quartz    has a hardness of  7
  Topaz     has a hardness of  8
  Corundum  has a hardness of  9
  Diamond   has a hardness of 10

A mineral will scratch all those above it in the series, and will be scratched by those below.
A weighted diamond cone drawn slowly over a surface will leave a path the width of which (measured
by a microscope) varies inversely as the scratch hardness.

"Cutting hardness" is measured by a standardized drilling machine, and has a limited application
in machine-shop practice.

"Rebounding hardness" is commonly measured by the Shore scleroscope, illustrated in Fig. 11.
A small steel hammer, 1/4 in. in diameter, 3/4 in. in length, and weighing about 1/12 oz. is
dropped a distance of 10 in. upon the test piece. The height of rebound in arbitrary units
represents the hardness numeral.

Should the hammer have a hard flat surface and drop on steel so hard that no impression were
made, it would rebound about 90 per cent of the fall. The point, however, consists of a slightly
spherical, blunt diamond nose 0.02 in. in diameter, which will indent the steel to a certain
extent. The work required to make the indentation is taken from the energy of the falling body;
the rebound will absorb the balance, and the hammer will now rise from the same steel a distance
equal to about 75 per cent of the fall. A permanent impression is left upon the test piece
because the impact will develop a force of several hundred thousand pounds per square inch
under the tiny diamond-pointed hammer head, stressing the test piece at this point of contact
much beyond its ultimate strength. The rebound is thus dependent upon the indentation hardness,
for the reason that the less the indentation, the more energy will reappear in the rebound;
also, the less the indentation, the harder the material. Consequently, the harder the material,
the more the rebound.

"Indentation hardness" is a measure of a material's resistance to penetration and deformation.
The standard testing machine is the Brinell, Fig. 12. A hardened steel ball, 10 mm. in diameter,
is forced into the test piece with a pressure of 3,000 kg. (3-1/3 tons). The resulting indentation
is then measured.

While under load, the steel ball in a Brinell machine naturally flattens somewhat. The indentation
left behind in the test piece is a duplicate of the surface which made it, and is usually regarded
as being the segment of a sphere of somewhat larger radius than the ball. The radius of curvature
of this spherical indentation will vary slightly with the load and the depth of indentation.
The Brinell hardness numeral is the quotient found by dividing the test pressure in kilograms
by the spherical area of the indentation. The denominator, as before, will vary according to
the size of the sphere, the hardness of the sphere and the load. These items have been standardized,
and the following table has been constructed so that if the diameter of the identation produced
by a load of 3,000 kg. be measured the hardness numeral is found directly.

                      TABLE FOR BRINELL BALL TEST
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diameter of Ball | Hardness Number | Diameter of Ball | Hardness Number
Impression, mm.  |  for a Load of  | Impression, mm.  |  for a Load of
                 |    3,000 kg.    |                  |    3,000 kg.
-----------------|-----------------|------------------|-----------------
      2.0        |       946       |       4.5        |       179
      2.1        |       857       |       4.6        |       170
      2.2        |       782       |       4 7        |       163
      2.3        |       713       |       4.8        |       156
      2.4        |       652       |       4.9        |       149
      2.5        |       600       |       5.0        |       143
                 |                 |                  |
      2.6        |       555       |       5.1        |       137
      2.7        |       512       |       5.2        |       131
      2.8        |       477       |       5.3        |       126
      2.9        |       444       |       5.4        |       121
      3.0        |       418       |       5.5        |       116
                 |                 |                  |
      3.1        |       387       |       5.6        |       112
      3.2        |       364       |       5.7        |       107
      3.3        |       340       |       5.8        |       103
      3.4        |       321       |       5.9        |        99
      3.5        |       302       |       6.0        |        95
                 |                 |                  |
      3.6        |       286       |       6.1        |        92
      3.7        |       269       |       6.2        |        89
      3.8        |       255       |       6.3        |        86
      3.9        |       241       |       6.4        |        83
      4.0        |       228       |       6.5        |        80
                 |                 |                  |
      4.1        |       217       |       6.6        |        77
      4.2        |       207       |       6.7        |        74
      4.3        |       196       |       6.8        |        71.5
      4.4        |       187       |       6.9        |        69
------------------------------------------------------------------------

CHAPTER III

ALLOYS AND THEIR EFFECT UPON STEEL

In view of the fact that alloy steels are coming into a great deal of prominence, it would
be well for the users of these steels to fully appreciate the effects of the alloys upon the
various grades of steel. We have endeavored to summarize the effect of these alloys so that
the users can appreciate their effect, without having to study a metallurgical treatise and
then, perhaps, not get the crux of the matter.

NICKEL

Nickel may be considered as the toughest among the non-rare alloys now used in steel manufacture.
Originally nickel was added to give increased strength and toughness over that obtained with
the ordinary rolled structural steel and little attempt was made to utilize its great possibilities
so far as heat treatment was concerned.

The difficulties experienced have been a tendency towards laminated structure during manufacture
and great liability to seam, both arising from improper melting practice. When extra care is
exercised in the manufacture, particularly in the melting and rolling, many of these difficulties
can be overcome.

The electric steel furnace, of modern construction, is a very important step forward in the
melting of nickel steel; neither the crucible process nor basic or acid open-hearth furnaces
give such good results.

Great care must be exercised in reheating the billet for rolling so that the steel is correctly
soaked. The rolling must not be forced; too big reduction per pass should not be indulged in,
as this sets up a tendency towards seams.

Nickel steel has remarkably good mechanical qualities when suitably heat-treated, and it is
preeminently adapted for case-hardening. It is not difficult to machine low-nickel steel, consequently
it is in great favor where easy machining properties are of importance.

Nickel influences the strength and ductility of steel by being dissolved directly in the iron
or ferrite; in this respect differing from chromium, tungsten and vanadium. The addition of
each 1 per cent nickel up to 5 per cent will cause an approximate increase of from 4,000 to
6,000 lb. per square inch in the tensile strength and elastic limit over the corresponding
steel and without any decrease in ductility. The static strength of nickel steel is affected
to some degree by the percentage of carbon; for instance, steel with 0.25 per cent carbon and
3.5 per cent nickel has a tensile strength, in its normal state, equal to a straight carbon
steel of 0.5 per cent with a proportionately greater elastic limit and retaining all the advantages
of the ductility of the lower carbon.

To bring out the full qualities of nickel it must be heat-treated, otherwise there is no object
in using nickel as an alloy with carbon steel as the additional cost is not justified by increased
strength.

Nickel has a peculiar effect upon the critical ranges of steel, the critical range being lowered
by the percentage of nickel; in this respect it is similar to manganese.

Nickel can be alloyed with steel in various percentages, each percentage having a very definite
effect on the microstructure. For instance, a steel with 0.2 per cent carbon and 2 per cent
nickel has a pearlitic structure but the grain is much finer than if the straight carbon were
used. With the same carbon content and say 5 per cent nickel, the structure would still be
pearlitic, but much finer and denser, therefore capable of withstanding shock, and having greater
dynamic strength. With about 0.2 per cent carbon and 8 per cent nickel, the steel is nearing
the stage between pearlite and martensite, and the structure is extremely fine, the ferrite
and pearlite having a very pronounced tendency to mimic a purely martensite structure. Steel
with 0.2 per cent carbon and 15 per cent nickel is entirely martensite. Higher percentages
of nickel change the martensitic structure to austenite, the steel then being non-magnetic.
The higher percentages, that is 30 to 35 per cent nickel, are used for valve seats, valve heads,
and valve stems, as the alloy is a poor conductor of heat and is particularly free from any
tendency towards corrosion or pitting from the action of waste gases of the internal-combustion
engine.

Nickel steels having 3-1/2 per cent nickel and 0.15 to 0.20 per cent carbon are excellent for
case-hardening purposes, giving hard surfaces and tough interiors.

To obtain the full effect of nickel as an alloy, it is essential that the correct percentage
of carbon be used. High nickel and low carbon will not be more efficient than lower nickel
and higher carbon, but the cost will be much greater. Generally speaking, heat-treated nickel
alloy steels are about two to three times stronger than the same steel annealed. This point
is very important as many instances have been found where nickel steel is incorrectly used,
being employed when in the annealed or normal state.

CHROMIUM

Chromium when alloyed with steel, has the characteristic function of opposing the disintegration
and reconstruction of cementite. This is demonstrated by the changes in the critical ranges
of this alloy steel taking place slowly; in other words, it has a tendency to raise the Ac
range (decalescent points) and lower the Ar range (recalescent points). Chromium steels are
therefore capable of great hardness, due to the rapid cooling being able to retard the decomposition
of the austenite.

The great hardness of chromium steels is also due to the formation of double carbides of chromium
and iron. This condition is not removed when the steel is slightly tempered or drawn. This
additional hardness is also obtained without causing undue brittleness such as would be obtained
by any increase of carbon. The degree of hardness of the lower-chrome steels is dependent upon
the carbon content, as chromium alone will not harden iron.

The toughness so noticeable in this steel is the result of the fineness of structure; in this
instance, the action is similar to that of nickel, and the tensile strength and elastic limit
is therefore increased without any loss of ductility. We then have the desirable condition
of tough hardness, making chrome steels extremely valuable for all purposes requiring great
resistance to wear, and in higher-chrome contents resistance to corrosion. All chromium-alloy
steels offer great resistance to corrosion and erosion. In view of this, it is surprising that
chromium steels are not more largely used for structural steel work and for all purposes where
the steel has to withstand the corroding action of air and liquids. Bridges, ships, steel building,
etc., would offer greater resistance to deterioration through rust if the chromium-alloy steels
were employed.

Prolonged heating and high temperatures have a very bad effect upon chromium steels. In this
respect they differ from nickel steels, which are not so affected by prolonged heating, but
chromium steels will stand higher temperatures than nickel steels when the period is short.

Chromium steels, due to their admirable property of increased hardness, without the loss of
ductility, make very excellent chisels and impact tools of all types, although for die blocks
they do not give such good results as can be obtained from other alloy combinations.

For ball bearing steels, where intense hardness with great toughness and ready recovery from
temporary deflection is required, chromium as an alloy offers the best solution.

Two per cent chromium steels; due to their very hard tough surface, are largely used for armor-piercing
projectiles, cold rolls, crushers, drawing dies, etc.

The normal structure of chromium steels, with a very low carbon content is roughly pearlitic
up to 7 per cent, and martensitic from 8 to 20 per cent; therefore, the greatest application
is in the pearlitic zone or the lower percentages.

NICKEL-CHROMIUM

A combination of the characteristics of nickel and the characteristics of chromium, as described,
should obviously give a very excellent steel as the nickel particularly affects the ferrite
of the steel and the chromium the carbon. From this combination, we are able to get a very
strong ferrite matrix and a very hard tough cementite. The strength of a strictly pearlitic
steel over a pure iron is due to the pearlitic being a layer arrangement of cementite running
parallel to that of a pure iron layer in each individual grain. The ferrite i.e., the iron
is increased in strength by the resistance offered by the cementite which is the simple iron-carbon
combination known to metallurgists as Fe3C. The cementite, although adding to the tensile strength,
is very brittle and the strength of the pearlite is the combination of the ferrite and cementite.
In the event of the cementite being strengthened, as in the case of strictly chromium steels,
an increased tensile strength is readily obtained without loss of ductility and if the ferrite
is strengthened then the tensile strength and ductility of the metal is still further improved.

Nickel-chromium alloy represents one of the best combinations available at the present time.
The nickel intensifies the physical characteristics of the chromium and the chromium has a
similar effect on the nickel.

For case-hardening, nickel-chromium steels seem to give very excellent results. The carbon
is very rapidly taken up in this combination, and for that reason is rather preferable to the
straight nickel steel.

With the mutually intensifying action of chromium and nickel there is a most suitable ratio
for these two alloys, and it has been found that roughly 2-1/2 parts of nickel to about 1 part
of chromium gives the best results. Therefore, we have the standard types of 3.5 per cent nickel
with 1.5 per cent chromium to 1.5 per cent nickel with 0.6 per cent chromium and the various
intermediate types. This ratio, however, does not give the whole story of nickel-chromium combinations,
and many surprising results have been obtained with these alloys when other percentage combinations
have been employed.

VANADIUM

Vanadium has a very marked effect upon alloy steels rich in chromium, carbon, or manganese.
Vanadium itself, when combined with steel very low in carbon, is not so noticeably beneficial
as in the same carbon steel higher in manganese, but if a small quantity of chromium is added,
then the vanadium has a very marked effect in increasing the impact strength of the alloy.
It would seem that vanadium has the effect of intensifying the action of chromium and manganese,
or that vanadium is intensified by the action of chromium or manganese.

Vanadium has the peculiar property of readily entering into solution with ferrite. If vanadium
contained is considerable it also combines with the carbon, forming carbides. The ductility
of carbon-vanadium steels is therefore increased, likewise the ductility of chrome-vanadium steels.

The full effect of vanadium is not felt unless the temperatures to which the steel is heated
for hardening are raised considerably. It is therefore necessary that a certain amount of "soaking"
takes place, so as to get the necessary equalization. This is true of all alloys which contain
complex carbides, i.e., compounds of carbon, iron and one or more elements.

Chrome-vanadium steels also are highly favored for case hardening. When used under alternating
stresses it appears to have superior endurance. It would appear that the intensification of
the properties due to chromium and manganese in the alloy steel accounts for this peculiar
phenomenon.

Vanadium is also a very excellent scavenger for either removing the harmful gases, or causing
them to enter into solution with the metal in such a way as to largely obviate their harmful
effects. Chrome-vanadium steels have been claimed, by many steel manufacturers and users, to
be preferable to nickel-chrome steels. While not wishing to pass judgment on this, it should
be borne in mind that the chrome-vanadium steel, which is tested, is generally compared with
a very low nickel-chromium alloy steel (the price factor entering into the situation), but
equally good results can be obtained by nickel-chromium steels of suitable analysis.

Where price is the leading factor, there are many cases where a stronger steel can be obtained
from the chrome and vanadium than the nickel-chrome. It will be safe to say that each of these
two systems of alloys have their own particular fields and chrome-vanadium steel should not
be regarded as the sole solution for all problems, neither should nickel-chromium.

MANGANESE

Manganese adds considerably to the tensile strength of steel, but this is dependent on the
carbon content. High carbon materially adds to the brittleness, whereas low-carbon, pearlitic-manganese
steels are very tough and ductile and are not at all brittle, providing the heat-treating is
correct. Manganese steel is very susceptible to high temperatures and prolonged heating.

In low-carbon pearlitic steels, manganese is more effective in increasing ultimate strength
than is nickel; that is to say, a 0.45 carbon steel with 1.25 per cent manganese is as strong
as a 0.45 carbon steel with 1.5 per cent nickel. The former steel is much used for rifle barrels,
and in the heat-treated condition will give 80,000 to 90,000 lb. per square inch elastic limit,
115,000 to 125,000 lb. per square inch tensile strength, 23 per cent elongation, and 55 per
cent reduction in area.

Manganese when added to steel has the effect of lowering the critical range; 1 per cent manganese
will lower the upper critical point 60°F. The action of manganese is very similar to that of
nickel in this respect, only twice as powerful. As an instance, 1 per cent nickel would have
the effect of lowering the upper critical range from 25 to 30°F.

Low-carbon pearlitic-manganese steel, heat-treated, will give dynamic strength which cannot
be equaled by low-priced and necessarily low-content nickel steels. In many instances, it is
preferable to use high-grade manganese steel, rather than low-content nickel steel.

High-manganese steels or austenite manganese steels are used for a variety of purposes where
great resistance to abrasion is required, the percentage of manganese being from 11 to 14 per
cent, and carbon 1 to 1.5 per cent. This steel is practically valueless unless heat-treated;
that is, heated to about yellow red and quenched in ice water. The structure is then austenite
and the air-cooled structure of this steel is martensite. Therefore this steel has to be heated
and very rapidly cooled to obtain the ductile austenite structure.

Manganese between 2 and 7 per cent is a very brittle material when the carbon is about 1 per
cent or higher and is, therefore, quite valueless. Below 2 per cent manganese steel low in
carbon is very ductile and tough steel.

The high-content manganese steels are known as the "Hadfield manganese steels," having been
developed by Sir Robert Hadfield. Small additions of chrome up to 1 per cent increase the elastic
limit of low-carbon pearlitic-manganese steels without affecting the steel in its resistance
to shock, but materially decrease the percentage of elongation.

Vanadium added to low-carbon pearlitic manganese steel has a very marked effect, increasing
greatly the dynamic strength and changing slightly the susceptibility of this steel to heat
treatments, giving a greater margin for the hardening temperature. Manganese steel with added
vanadium is most efficient when heat-treated.

TUNGSTEN

Tungsten, as an alloy in steel, has been known and used for a long time. The celebrated and
ancient damascus steel being a form of tungsten-alloy steel. Tungsten and its effects, however,
did not become generally realized until Robert Mushet experimented and developed his famous
mushet steel and the many improvement made since that date go to prove how little Mushet himself
understood the peculiar effects of tungsten as an alloy.

Tungsten acts on steel in a similar manner to carbon, that is, it increases its hardness, but
is much less effective than carbon in this respect. If the percentage of tungsten and manganese
is high, the steel will be hard after cooling in the air. This is impossible in a carbon steel.
It was this combination that Mushet used in his well-known "air-hardening" steel.

The principal use of tungsten is in high-speed tool steel, but here a high percentage of manganese
is distinctly detrimental, making the steel liable to fire crack, very brittle and weak in
the body, less easily forged and annealed. Manganese should be kept low and a high percentage
of chromium used instead.

Tools of tungsten-chromium steels, when hardened, retain their hardness, even when heated to
a dark cherry red by the friction of the cutting or the heat arising from the chips. This characteristic
led to the term "red-hardness," and it is this property that has made possible the use of very
high cutting speeds in tools made of the tungsten-chromium alloy, that is, "high-speed" steel.

Tungsten steels containing up to 6 per cent do not have the property of red hardness any more
than does carbon tool steel, providing the manganese or chromium is low.

When chromium is alloyed with tungsten, a very definite red-hardness is noticed with a great
increase of cutting efficiency. The maximum red-hardness seems to be had with steels containing
18 per cent tungsten, 5.5 per cent chromium and 0.70 per cent carbon.

Very little is known of the actual function of tungsten, although a vast amount of experimental
work has been done. It is possible that when the effect of tungsten with iron-carbon alloys
is better known, a greater improvement can be expected from these steels. Tungsten has been
tried and is still used by some steel manufacturers for making punches, chisels, and other
impact tools. It has also been used for springs, and has given very good results, although
other less expensive alloys give equally good results, and are in some instances, better.

Tungsten is largely used in permanent magnets. In this, its action is not well understood.
In fact, the reason why steel becomes a permanent magnet is not at all understood. Theories
have been evolved, but all are open to serious questioning. The principal effect of tungsten,
as conceded by leading authorities, is that it distinctly retards separation of the iron-carbon
solution, removing the lowest recalescent point down to atmospheric temperature.

A peculiar property of tungsten steels is that if a heating temperature of 1,750°F. is not
exceeded, the cooling curves indicate but one critical point at about 1,350°F. But when the
heating temperature is raised above 1,850°F., this critical point is nearly if not quite suppressed,
while a lower critical point appears and grows enormously in intensity at a temperature between
660 and 750°F.

The change in the critical ranges, which is produced by heating tungsten steels to over 1,850°F.,
is the real cause of the red-hard properties of these alloys. Its real nature is not understood,
and there is no direct evidence to show what actually happens at these high temperatures.

