Lord FINLAY, to whom as a Scotsman logic still makes appeal, was for the deletion of the whole
clause. But the Irish Peers again objected; for they desired to preserve for the Irish Parliaments
power to remit Imperial taxes, on the off-chance that some day it might be exercised. And they
carried their point.

According to Lieut.-Colonel CROFT the pencils used by the British Post-Office are procured
from the United States. As one who has suffered I can only hope that Anglo-American friendship,
already somewhat strained by the bacon episode, will survive this revelation.

On the strength of a rumour that the seed of Irish peace had been planted in Downing Street,
Mr. HOGGE promptly essayed to root it up in order to observe its progress towards fruition.
The PRIME MINISTER, however, gave no encouragement to his well-intentioned efforts. Nor did
he satisfy Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY'S curiosity as to whether Father O'FLANAGAN was "a Sinn
Feiner on the bridge," beyond saying "that is what we want to find out."

Tuesday, December 7th.--After a week's interval for reflection and study Lord LINCOLNSHIRE
moved the rejection of the Agriculture Bill. Adapting an old joke of Lord SPENCER'S, made in
"another place" a generation ago, he observed that this was no more an agricultural Bill than
he himself was an agricultural labourer. He knows however how to call a spade a spade, if not
something more picturesque, and he treated the measure and its authors to all the resources
of a varied vocabulary. Possibly his brother peers, while enjoying his invective, thought that
it had been a little bit overdone, for of the subsequent speakers only Lord HINDLIP announced
his intention of voting against the Bill, the others being of opinion that parts of it were,
not excellent perhaps, but at least tolerable.

In the Commons Viscount CURZON pressed upon the Government the desirability of licensing side-car
combinations as taxi-cabs. The idea might, one feels, appeal to a Coalition Government but
Sir JOHN BAIRD for the Home Office hinted at the existence of "serious objections."

Collectively the House has an infantile mind. It went into kinks of laughter over a question
put by Dr. MURRAY regarding the "daily mail service" between one of his beloved islands and
the Scottish mainland. The author of the joke--and small blame to him--quite failed to appreciate
how funny he had been until his neighbours muttered in stage-whispers, "Daily Mail!" "Daily
Mail!" Then a wan smile broke over his own features.

It has been stated in certain newspapers that Mr. CHAMBERLAIN has refused the Viceroyalty of
India in consequence of the weak state of his health, and that for the same cause he is likely
to vacate shortly the Chancellorship of the Exchequer. All I can say is that on the Treasury
Bench he betrays no outward sign of this regrettable debility when dealing with critics of
the Treasury. It is not easy to puncture the æs triplex of Mr. BOTTOMLEY, but two words from
Mr. CHAMBERLAIN did it this afternoon.

Sir ROBERT HORNE got a second reading for the Dyes Bill, a measure which he commended as being
necessary to protect what is a key-industry both in peace and war. Dye-stuffs and poison-gas
are, it seems, inextricably intermingled, and unless the Bill is passed we shall be able neither
to dye ourselves nor to poison our enemies.

Wednesday, December 8th.--The Agriculture Bill found one thoroughgoing supporter in the Duke
of MARLBOROUGH, an "owner-occupier" so enamoured of Government control that he desires to see
the whole of the ditches and hedges of England administered out of public funds; and a host
of critics, friendly and otherwise. Lord CHAPLIN, though he thought the Bill one of the worst
ever introduced, declined to vote against the Second Reading; Lord HARRIS believed that it
would make very little difference one way or the other; Lord RIBBLESDALE, as an old-fashioned
Free Trader, would have nothing to do with it; Lord LOVAT was of opinion that as an insurance
for our food supply it would not compare with a Channel Tunnel; and Lord BUCKMASTER feared
that it would rather strengthen than allay the demand for land nationalisation. The Government
approached the division in some trepidation and were the more rejoiced when, in an unusually
big House, the Second Reading was carried by 123 votes to 85.

But for the self-sacrifice of Mr. SPEAKER the Commons would have made themselves ridiculous
this evening. Major ARCHER-SHEE wanted to have up a certain newspaper for breach of privilege
in endeavouring to dictate to Members how they should vote. He obtained leave to move the adjournment
and would doubtless have provided the peccant journal with a valuable free advertisement had
not Mr. LOWTHER, reckless of his reputation for infallibility, suddenly remembered that motions
for the adjournment were intended for criticising the Government and not for rebuking irresponsible
outsiders. At his request the gallant Major withdrew his motion, and The Daily ---- lost its
advertisement.

Invigorated by this episode the House--or what was left of it--resumed the Report stage of
the Ministry of Health Bill. The debate was remarkable for the brevity of some of the speeches.
Sir ROWLAND BLADES set a good example to new Members by making a "maiden" effort in a minute
and a half. But his record was easily beaten by Mr. SEXTON, who found ten seconds sufficient
for expressing his opinion that the fact that the House was trying to legislate in the small
hours was sufficient proof of the necessity of extending the laws of lunacy. "Si argumentum
requiris circumspice," he might have said as he gazed upon the recumbent and yawning figures
around him.

Thursday, December 9th.--Mr. BONAR LAW enumerated a portentous list of measures which the House
of Commons must pass if it wants to enjoy its Christmas holidays in peace. Lord HUGH CECIL
wanted to know what was the use of passing "all these foolish little Bills." Mr. PEMBERTON
BILLING had another solution for the difficulty and asked, "Why not pass them all ad hoc?"
meaning, it is supposed, "en bloc."

Well might the PRIME MINISTER remark at Question-time that he welcomed the attacks of a certain
section of the Press on the "Wastrels" because then he knew the Government was all right. Mr.
GEORGE LAMBERT made a lively speech in support of his proposal to "ration" the Government to
a sum of £808,000,000--the amount Mr. CHAMBERLAIN had said would suffice for a normal year.
But his criticisms were too discursive to be really dangerous, and his condemnation of "sloppy
Socialism" put up the backs of the Labour Party.

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER reminded the House that when he talked of a "normal Budget"
he had been careful to add, "but not this year, next year or the year after," which sounds
suspiciously like the nursery formula, "This year, next year, sometime, NEVER."

Still the great majority of the Members were only too anxious to be convinced, and passed by
a huge majority the "blanketing" amendment of Sir GODFREY COLLINS in favour of economy in the
abstract. I don't know how this is to be squared with the PRIME MINISTER'S theory that it is
the business of the Government "to see that the population is contented." That sounds a little
like panem et circenses--a policy which did not work out cheaply.

Friday, December 10th.--With the air of one who has something fresh and strange to impart the
PRIME MINISTER informed the House of Commons to-day that in regard to Ireland "the Government
are determined on a double policy." The novelty presumably consists in putting those old stagers,
conciliation and coercion, hitherto only tried tandem-fashion, into double harness. Martial
law is to be introduced in certain of the most disturbed districts, and at the same time such
Sinn Fein M.P.'s as are not "on the run" are to be called into conference. On the face of it
the prospect looks unpromising, but happily Ireland is essentially the place where nothing
happens save the unexpected.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MAKING THE LAW POPULAR.

A writer in an evening contemporary complains that one has some difficulty in finding the notices
to jurors in the newspapers.

We have often thought that more prominence might be given to the Law Notices generally. Printed
in the smallest type and abbreviated almost beyond understanding, they are by no means the
brightest item of news.

Would it not be an advantage to hand the department over to a smart paragraphist? Readers might
then be entertained by something like the following:--

Visitors to the Law Courts to-day should on no account fail to look in at King's Bench XIII.,
which is one of the cosiest of our beautiful Courts of Justice. Here will be continued the
scintillating contest between Sir Anthony Prius, K.C., and that rising young barrister, Mr.
Terry Blee-Smart, K.C. It is more than probable that the cross-examination of the humorous
butcher will continue through most of the day.

The first case on the list in the Lord Chief's Court to-day is no other than The King v. The
Dean and Chapter of Mumborough Cathedral. While it is not expected that his Majesty's engagements
will permit him to be present, an action of this character is fraught with more than common
interest, since it must be seldom that the Royal House finds itself in such conflict with the
Church as to resort to the arbitrament of the law.

We see no reason why some legal engagements should not be boldly displayed, the more readily
to catch the reader's eye. Why not the following:--

        ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE.
        ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE.
        ROYAL COURTS OF JUSTICE.
      YOU MUST NOT MISS THIS!
        Chancery Court No. 29,
              Before
        Mr. Justice Howling,
  Binks v. Arcana Cinema Company, Ltd.

As one of the leading comedians of the day Mr. TIM BINKS never fails to create roars of laughter,
and with Mr. JUSTICE HOWLING may be relied upon to put up a show provocative of never-failing
mirth.

CHEER YOURSELF UP! ADMISSION FREE!

  Whether it's wet or whether it's fine,
  Visit Chancery Twenty-nine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.

  THE LOBSTER.

  The lobster is an oblong crab
    With one or two antennæ;
  I fancy life would be less drab
    If people had as many.

  I think he uses them to smell,
    But what he most enjoys
  Is rubbing them against his shell;
    It makes a funny noise.

  He rubs away like anything,
    And you should see his face!
  Alas, he thinks that he can sing;
    But that is not the case.

  He's very sensitive and shy;
    At last when he is dead
  He knows the truth--and that is why
    He goes so very red.

 A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Your System appealed to me as a rational means of exercise
    without undue fatigue, and I started on the 10th of March, 1920.
    I was then in my 75th year, and now within only two months of
    completing the 85th." Advt. in Sunday Paper.

If he keeps it up he should be a centenarian by about the end of next year. One seems to age
rather rapidly under this system.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OTHER HALF.

I was sitting by Anderson's fire the other day when his telephone bell rang. He made the usual
insincere exclamation of disgust--as insincere as the horror we simulate when a bundle of letters
is brought into the room, to have letters and to be called up on the telephone being really
adventures and therefore welcome; and he then crossed the room to answer the call.

"Shall I go?" I asked, thinking that he might prefer to be alone.

"Oh, no," he said, and I remained. I was not trying to overhear, but it couldn't be helped.

This is the conversation (his half) that I heard:--

"Yes."

"Speaking. Who is it?"

"Oh, I'm so glad! I was getting horribly nervous. How is he?"

"Good Heavens! I was afraid he might be. What do you think?"

"Of course I must trust you. But we must never let my wife know."

"I'll think about it and let you know."

"Quite likely. I'll go into that and let you know. She can't be absolutely alone anyway. There
must be another some time."

"And what do you propose to do now?"

"You're sure it will be painless?"

"I wouldn't have him suffer for anything."

"Thank you very much. I shall tell my wife he died in his sleep. Good-bye."

What, I wonder, would you have made of that? Some telephone conversations are easy to construct,
but this to me was a puzzle. What had Anderson been up to? It must be an awful moment, I have
often thought as I read divorce and other cases, when a friend is suddenly turned into a witness;
and I had the feeling that that might be my lot now. Those clever cross-examining devils, they
can get anything out of you. If Anderson had known who was ringing him up he would probably
(so I reasoned) have got me out of the room; but, having once started, he decided to brazen
it out as the less suspicious way.

As so often happens, however, I was wrong. This is the whole innocent conversation:--

"Is that 1260?"

"Yes."

"Is Mr. Anderson there?"

"Speaking. Who is it?"

"Harding, the veterinary surgeon."

"Oh, I'm so glad! I was getting horribly nervous. How is he?"

"He's worse."

"Good Heavens! I was afraid he might be. What do you think?"

"I think we had better put an end to him."

"Of course I must trust you. But we must never let my wife know."

"Shall I be looking about for another?"

"I'll think about it and let you know."

"Perhaps a totally different breed would be better; not another Peke. There'd be fewer unhappy
associations then, don't you see?"

"Quite likely. I'll go into that and let you know. She can't be absolutely alone, anyway. There
must be another some time."

"Yes."

"And what do you propose to do now?"

"Oh, I'll give him poison."

E. V. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOUNTAIN AND THE PROPHETS.

My dear Charles,--At Geneva there is, and was long before the arrival of the League of Nations,
a mountain. There are many mountains in Switzerland, but Geneva's private mountain happens
to be in France. It is called "The Salève," a nasty name, but not of my choosing. If, being
in Geneva, you want to go up The Salève (as I personally do not) you have first to get your
passport off the police. The police are always a little difficult about passports, but, if
you mention the name of The Salève, you will find them easier. You have next to obtain the
French visa in order to get out of Geneva; then the Swiss visa in order to get back again.
Thus provided you have to compete with a complicated and long-drawn process of trams and frontier
controls; even so you find yourself at the bottom and not at the top of The Salève.

Being a busy (or shall we say idle?) man yourself, you will thus understand the reasons of
my policy; if the mountain will not come to MAHOMED then MAHOMED and the mountain are best
kept apart.

The inhabitants of Geneva have long been contriving, intriguing, I will even say complotting,
to get me up The Salève. My doctor, having made me thoroughly interested in myself, got on
to the subject of exercise; when my banker passed from the subject of interest on overdrafts
to the advisability of my seeing the great Geneva view, it was undoubtedly blackmail; and as
for my dentist--well, you know what dentists are and what mean advantages they take. But this
one, I think, over-stepped the limit when he allowed the crown of my tooth to remind him of
the crown of Mont Blanc; paused in fixing the former to descant on the beauties of the latter;
told me that from The Salève I should get a better view of the latter than he, where he was,
was getting of the former; asked me almost simultaneously if he was hurting me and if I had
been up The Salève, and told me that I must go up it and (which I took to mean "or") that he
might have to hurt me.

That was the most critical moment in the whole Battle of The Salève; the military critics are
unanimous that I should have then said, "I will go up," had I been in a position to say anything
at all. Saved by the gag, I have won the war against the Genevois.

I have taken the standpoint of the prophet, who, as you know, is not without honour abroad--a
prophet with the policy outlined above. When a prophet of my sort decides on a policy, and
that policy consists of doing nothing, he takes a lot of shifting, even on the flat. And there
the matter and I remained, when there arrived from England, on or about November 15th, a positive
cloud of prophets, intent on the League of Nations. The busiest figure among them is the secretary
of one of the delegates. Pretending to be my best friend he sought the occasion of a heart-to-heart
with me. I took it he wanted to discuss Nations; it appeared he wanted to discuss mountains.
I hoped he was considering them generally in mass, possibly with the view of making a League
of them. He was thinking in the particular, and you can guess what particular. He was beginning
to think of wanting to go up It.

In an effective speech, which brought tears to my eyes but merely gave him an opportunity to
fill and light his pipe, I put all the "cons" before him, particularly the passport part. As
a man speaking with the authority behind him of a world leagued together, he detailed all the
"pros." We must act together, he and I; he would assemble the prophets, I the passports.

I refused to be bullied by him. He named some major prophets, whom I should find it more difficult
to withstand. His propaganda amongst them apparently began at once. Mark the sequence of events:--

On Tuesday, November 16th, His Majesty's Minister-Plenipotentiary and Envoy-Extraordinary in
Switzerland assembled the British element to dinner. I have reason to know that he had already
been approached by the secretary. The Crown of Mont Blanc was freely discussed and curiosity
was aroused as to the identity, the desirability, even the approachability of the nearer mountain.

On Wednesday, November 17th, I ran into Lieut.-Col. His Highness the JAM SAHIB of NAWANAGAR--"RANJI,"
in brief. He was standing at the entrance of his hotel in significant meditation. The entrance
of his hotel looks upon The Salève and past it to the Crown of Mont Blanc. And that was where
he looked.

On Friday, November 19th, I found the Right Hon. G. N. BARNES walking along the Quai de Mont
Blanc in the fatal direction. His eyebrows pointed relentlessly upward.

On Saturday, November 20th, Mr. BALFOUR arrived. The secretary began to talk about a date for
our excursion.

On Sunday, November 21st, I became involved in conversation with Lord ROBERT CECIL in his room
in his hotel. He moved towards the window, and as he did so Armenia, Vilna and all the Powers
that want to come into the League and all the Powers that want to stay out of the League faded
from his mind, and he called attention to the Crown of Mont Blanc and fixed his eagle eye upon
the mole-hill in between.

On Monday, November 22nd, the secretary came to me and ordered me to provide passports, duly
visaed, for The Salève party--seven in all, myself included. I told him that I would appeal
direct to the delegates themselves, with whom I had already done some defensive propaganda
on my own. He told me it was nothing to do with the delegates; it was the delegates' ladies.
Fool that I was, I had never thought of them!

That night I wrote in my diary: "At Geneva there is a mountain. It is called The Salève--a
nasty name for a nasty mountain. On Saturday I shall be on the top of it. I always knew that
the League of Nations would make trouble."

On Tuesday, November 23rd, I sent an emissary among the ladies to persuade them that the summit
of The Salève was loathsome. The emissary succeeded in establishing this point by contrasting
it unfavourably with the Crown of Mont Blanc. The ladies thanked the emissary cordially for
her most interesting information and said they would take steps to see the Crown of Mont Blanc
more nearly, even if those steps had to be up The Salève.

That night I wrote in my diary: "For a year I have fought and won, but on Saturday the Crown
of Mont Blanc will witness my defeat, and the whole range of the Alps will look on in silent
contempt."

On Wednesday morning, November 24th, I met Mr. BALFOUR crossing the Pont du Mont Blanc. He
was looking at It with that dreamy smile of his, which seems to laugh at the littleness of
man and the futility of his policies. That finished me.

On Wednesday night, November 24th-25th (read your paper to witness if I lie), the Crown of
Mont Blanc fell off ... I have left The Salève where it is. What does it matter now?

Yours ever, Henry.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Enough Said.

"Sir Henry apologised at the close for having made the lecture somewhat shorter than usual.
Sir Donald ---- said that theirs was an unspoken gratitude to Sir Henry for having done what
he had been able to do."--Scots Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MADRID, Dec. 8.

"The Ministry of Public Works has announced that on January 15 next an opportunity will be
offered to foreign firms to secure orders for 119 railway engines and tenders needed by the
Spanish railway companies. Tenders must be handed personally by a duly accredited representative
of the firm making the offer."--Times.

The engines may, however, be done up in a parcel and sent by post in the usual manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARRIVAL OF THE MANX BALLET.

The first visit of the Manx Ballet to London is undoubtedly the most outstanding feature in
the annals of choregraphic and corybantic realism since the historic première of the Botocudo
Troupe on September 31st, 1919. And it is all the more welcome as an indication of the emergence
of a native school, fully equipped in technique and scenic resource and, above all, imbued
from start to finish with a high sense of the paramount importance of psycho-analysis in eliminating
all supra-liminal elements from the orchestro-mimetic drama.

The most ambitious as well as the most successful item in the programme presented on Saturday
night at the Colossodrome was The Cat of Ballasalla, that wonderful old Manx legend of the
Princess who was turned into a cat by the enchantments of the Wizard of Dhoon and subsequently
sentenced to decaudation by the cruel Scandinavian invader, MAGNUS BARFOD. The scene of the
trial in the great synclinorium of Greeba Castle--exhibiting contemporaneous carboniferous
tuffs, soft argillaceous rocks with choriambic fossils as well as later dolerite dykes, amid
which the feline amenities of the Princess were illustrated with miraculous agility by Miss
Agneesh Crannoge--compares favourably with the most ambitious enormities ever perpetrated by
the genius of BAKST, DIAGHILEV, or even COCODRILLO, the Sardinian neo-Gongorist.

The music, which is chiefly founded on Manx folk-songs, developed and adapted by Mr. Orry Poolvash,
is richly suggestive of the psycho-analytic basic aroma which pervades the entire scenario.
The absence of a Coda in the Funeral March which concludes the ballet is an exquisitely pathetic
touch which could only have occurred to a composer of genius. The orchestration is sumptuous
and sonorous, the usual instruments being supplemented by two Glory Quayle-horns, a quartet
of Laxey-phones with rotating C and C sharp crooks, a Manx harp with three strings, and a Miaowola,
which gives out the Death Motive of the Princess at the various crises of the drama in tones
of sublimated anguish and intensity.

We have only space in this brief preliminary notice to remark that the programme includes a
humorous extravaganza entitled The Quirks of Quilliam, in which a grotesque pas de quatre for
the Deemster, the Doomster, the Boomster and the Scrabster, forms the central episode; and
ends with a satiric sketch, The Golden Calf of Man, apparently aimed at the extravagance of
Lancashire trippers, who are pursued by demons into Sulby Glen, and released, to the sound
of sea-trumpets, by the beneficent intervention of Lord Greeba on their promising to evacuate
the island.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLFING "IFS."

  If you bring your own lunch
  And frugally munch
  Your sandwich and cake
  For economy's sake;
  If you strictly abstain
  From sloe-gin and champagne,
  Never touching a drop
  Save perhaps ginger-pop;
  If you're clever enough
  To keep out of the rough,
  If you don't slice or hook
  Into pond, dyke or brook
  Your new three-shilling ball,
  And, best saving of all,
  If you carry your clubs,
  You can pay heavy "subs.,"
  Fees for entrance and greens,
  Without straining your means,
  And, though you're a middle-
    Class man, not a peer,
  Agree with LORD RIDDELL
    That golf isn't dear.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

The news that Mr. STEPHEN LEACOCK has published a fresh series of burlesques will, I do not
doubt, add to the Christmas jollity of a vast crowd of laughter-lovers. The name of it is Winsome
Winnie, and other New Nonsense Novels (LANE), and I can only describe it in that pet phrase
of the house-agents as "examined and strongly recommended" for the merriest five-shillings'
worth that I have enjoyed this long time. If ever a volume demanded to be read aloud over the
Yule log here it is. Which of the eight novels is the most irresistible must remain, I suppose,
a matter of individual taste; for myself I found the opening chapter in the title-tale the
funniest thing in the collection, and that not forgetting the billiard match in the detective
story, a contest that I defy anyone to follow without tears. To attempt analysis of such happily
unforced humour would be a dark and dreadful task; but I incline to think that, more than most,
the fun of Mr. LEACOCK (to be accurate one should, I suppose, say Dr. LEACOCK) depends upon
the sudden tripping-up of the reader in his moment of fancied security. The cliché, with its
deceptive appearance of solid and familiar ground, conceals an unexpected trap. Thus Winnie,
the thrown-upon-the-world heroine, asked by the family lawyer how she proposes to gain a livelihood,
replies in consecrated phrase, "I have my needle." "Let me see it," says the lawyer. But I
grow pedantic; far more important than the method of this little book is its gift of seasonable
entertainment, for which we need only wipe our eyes and be grateful.

       *       *       *       *       *

In The Royal Artillery War Commemoration Book Messrs. G. BELL AND SONS have produced a noble
volume worthy of the great record of the Royal Regiment. To the energy and enthusiasm of Mrs.
AMBROSE DUDLEY is largely due the collection of the fine material which Major-General Sir HERBERT
UNIACKE has here set out in fair order and proportion. Personal diaries dealing with various
phases of the War on all fronts or with the daily routine of batteries are here interspersed
with articles and poems of a more purely literary quality and with original illustrations,
largely the work of Gunner-officers and extremely well reproduced. Among the most notable contributors
are Brigadier-General J. H. MORGAN, Major V. R. BURKHARDT, D.S.O., Major The Master of BELHAVEN,
Captain VICTOR WALROND (the last two killed in action), Captain GILBERT HOLIDAY, Captain H.
ASQUITH, Lieut. ROBERT NICHOLS, Lieut. GILBERT FRANKAU, Gunner MEARS, the Hon. NEVILLE LYTTON,
Mr. SEPTIMUS POWER, Mr. W. ROTHENSTEIN, Miss LUCY KEMP-WELCH and Mr. C. CLARK. Punch is represented
by several artists, including Captain E. H. SHEPARD, M.C., and Lieut. WALLIS MILLS (both of
the Regiment), who have contributed some delightful colour-sketches, very faithfully observed.
Many of the poems, too, that appear in the volume have been reprinted from the pages of Punch.
There are brief records of those members of the Regiment who won the V.C., many portraits of
"Representative Artillerymen," and a Roll of Honour of fallen officers, numbering 3,507. Lack
of space alone prevented the inclusion of the names of the 45,442 Other Ranks who gave their
lives for their country. Every Gunner who does not possess this splendid memorial work should
have it given to him this Christmas by some proud relative or friend. Like the Regiment, it
should go Ubique.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Mr. ROBERT CHAMBERS decides to give his neurotic New York society women a miss, and exploit
his more imaginative and adventurous vein, I always know that I am in for a late night and
an extra large gas bill. Like the British soldier Mr. CHAMBERS does not carry the word "impossible"
in his vocabulary. Why should he, since he can give the semblance of reality to the utterly
unbelievable? Then one mutters, "What utter rubbish!" and sends round to the bookseller to
enquire if by any chance there is a sequel coming out. In The Slayer of Souls (HODDER AND STOUGHTON)
Mr. CHAMBERS is at his best and most impossible. A race of dreadful magicians, the descendants
of the Old Man of the Mountain, who have been multiplying and acquiring extraordinary psychic
powers in the interior of China for centuries, come forth to do battle with the United Secret
Service for the souls of men. They have inspired the Hun, and the Bolshevik has been their
tool. Fortunately a beautiful young American girl, who was brought up in their midst and has
learned all their grizzly powers and (as it seems) a bit more, is on the side of the "forces
of law and order." The struggle is titanic, for these magicians can slay and be slain corporeally
and incorporeally with equal ease. I do not need to tell you who wins out, but neither will
I intimate how it is done. I can only say that I envy anybody who is fortunate enough to have
a long evening before him and The Slayer of Souls at his elbow, still unread.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Uncle Pierce's Legacy (METHUEN) Mrs. DOROTHEA CONYERS gives us once more all that we have
learned to expect of her novels: the friendly, witty, blundering servants; the hunting society
in which wealth and poverty, breeding and vulgarity, cheerfully rub shoulders; the descriptions
of the wistful beautiful West of Ireland in autumn and winter; and above all the horses. Added
to all this there are Sinn Fein raids, real and imaginary, to bring things up to date. A rather
unconvincing plot, with a dash of Great Expectations in it, yet offers a situation which has
plenty of amusing possibilities. Honor and Evie Nutting, two middle-aged spinsters, find themselves
the possessors of eight thousand a year, on condition that they spend it all. That sounds,
of course, a very pleasant arrangement; but they have been struggling for years to make ends
meet and economy has become a habit. The end of the first quarter finds them sending Harris,
the English manservant, in haste to buy a frying-pan with the last unspent three shillings
and sixpence. That the Uncle Pierce of the title should be really a brother, that characters
should change their names without rhyme or reason from paragraph to paragraph, and that inverted
commas should make their appearance just anywhere--all this, I think, is the author's clever
way of suggesting an atmosphere of Irish irresponsibility, and it is quite successful. Uncle
Pierce's Legacy is a pleasant tale most pleasantly told, and it is not Mrs. CONYERS' fault,
but her misfortune (and ours), that novels which describe the lighter side of Irish life, even
with the tenderest humour, are more likely just now to make one sigh than smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

I do not know whether The Scar (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) first saw publication in any of our popular
dailies, but from internal evidence I should be strongly inclined to suspect it. At least Miss
RUBY M. AYRES has written an admirable example of the class of tale, beloved of our serial
public, in which new every morning are the tribulations of the elect, only to vanish with startling
suddenness in the last days of June or December. For example, Mark, the hero, begins as the
misunderstood son of one of those widower-fathers who in such stories dwell for ever behind
the locked doors of studies, leaving in this instance Mark to be the victim of an aunt whose
lack of sympathy approaches the pantomimic. All the usual results follow, even to the acquisition
by Mark of a faithful hound, which the least experience of sentimental fiction would have caused
any insurance company to refuse on sight. When therefore Aunt Midian, following her appointed
course, effaced this friend-of-man, I confess that my grief was to some extent tempered by
a recognition of the inevitable. Of course, however, Mark does not remain for long in what
I might call these dog-days of his young affection; love, strong, passionate and not too slavishly
restricted to a single object, soon has his world going round as fast as the most exacting
reader could desire. For the decorous details of this delirium I need only add that, if you
want them, you know where to go to find them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Had I been asked to godfather Smith and the Pharaohs (ARROWSMITH) I should have refused to
stand, unless its name was changed to "Barbara who Came Back," for the tale of Barbara is by
far the best in this book of short stories. It would be boastful--as well as untrue--to say
that I have read all of Sir H. RIDER HAGGARD'S many books, but as far as my experience of them
goes I find a delightfully fresh quality in this tale. It may be old-fashioned and over-sentimental,
but in spite of these defects it has a very definite charm, and its conclusion makes a curious
and legitimate appeal to the emotions. All the other stories are well up to standard, and it
is amazing that an author who has written so much still shows no symptoms either of weariness
or vain repetition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those who appreciate Miss C. FOX SMITH'S familiarity with the ways and moods of sailormen and
her flair for the true sea-tang will welcome the new collection of poems which she has brought
out under the title, Ships and Folks (ELKIN MATHEWS). Most of these verses have appeared in
Punch, and no further commendation is here needed.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

   Page 465: Tristan d'Acunha--this spelling also appears in the
   next issue of 'Punch'.

   Page 478: choregraphic is a valid spelling of choreographic.
   (Oxford Dictionary: Cho'regraph etc. See CHOREOGRAPH etc.)