He then examined the paper in which the purse had been wrapt up. It was the back of a letter
addressed to V. Brown, Esquire, but the rest of the address was torn away. The landlady, now
as eager to throw light upon the criminal's escape as she had formerly been desirous of withholding
it, for the miscellaneous contents of the purse argued strongly to her mind that all was not
right,--Mrs. Mac-Candlish, I say, now gave Glossin to understand that her position and hostler
had both seen the stranger upon the ice that day when young Hazlewood was wounded.

Our readers' old acquaintance Jock Jabos was first summoned, and admitted frankly that he had
seen and conversed upon the ice that morning with a stranger, who, he understood, had lodged
at the Gordon Arms the night before.

'What turn did your conversation take?' said Glossin.

'Turn? ou, we turned nae gate at a', but just keep it straight forward upon the ice like.'

'Well, but what did ye speak about?'

'Ou, he just asked questions like ony ither stranger,' answered the postilion, possessed, as
it seemed, with the refractory and uncommunicative spirit which had left his mistress.

'But about what?' said Glossin.

'Ou, just about the folk that was playing at the curling, and about auld Jock Stevenson that
was at the cock, and about the leddies, and sic like.'

'What ladies? and what did he ask about them, Jock?' said the interrogator.

'What leddies? Ou, it was Miss Jowlia Mannering and Miss Lucy Bertram, that ye ken fu' weel
yoursell, Mr. Glossin; they were walking wi' the young Laird of Hazlewood upon the ice.'

'And what did you tell him about them?' demanded Glossin.

'Tut, we just said that was Miss Lucy Bertram of Ellangowan, that should ance have had a great
estate in the country; and that was Miss Jowlia Mannering, that was to be married to young
Hazlewood, see as she was hinging on his arm. We just spoke about our country clashes like;
he was a very frank man.'

'Well, and what did he say in answer?'

'Ou, he just stared at the young leddies very keen-like, and asked if it was for certain that
the marriage was to be between Miss Mannering and young Hazlewood; and I answered him that
it was for positive and absolute certain, as I had an undoubted right to say sae; for my third
cousin Jean Clavers (she's a relation o' your ain, Mr. Glossin, ye wad ken Jean lang syne?),
she's sib to the housekeeper at Woodbourne, and she's tell'd me mair than ance that there was
naething could be mair likely.'

'And what did the stranger say when you told him all this?' said Glossin.

'Say?' echoed the postilion, 'he said naething at a'; he just stared at them as they walked
round the loch upon the ice, as if he could have eaten them, and he never took his ee aff them,
or said another word, or gave another glance at the bonspiel, though there was the finest fun
amang the curlers ever was seen; and he turned round and gaed aff the loch by the kirkstile
through Woodbourne fir-plantings, and we saw nae mair o' him.'

'Only think,' said Mrs. Mac-Candlish, 'what a hard heart he maun hae had, to think o' hurting
the poor young gentleman in the very presence of the leddy he was to be married to!'

'O, Mrs. Mac-Candlish,' said Glossin, 'there's been many cases such as that on the record;
doubtless he was seeking revenge where it would be deepest and sweetest.'

'God pity us!' said Deacon Bearcliff, 'we're puir frail creatures when left to oursells! Ay,
he forgot wha said, "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay it."'

'Weel, aweel, sirs,' said Jabos, whose hard-headed and uncultivated shrewdness seemed sometimes
to start the game when others beat the bush--'weel, weel, ye may be a' mista'en yet; I'll never
believe that a man would lay a plan to shoot another wi' his ain gun. Lord help ye, I was the
keeper's assistant down at the Isle mysell, and I'll uphaud it the biggest man in Scotland
shouldna take a gun frae me or I had weized the slugs through him, though I'm but sic a little
feckless body, fit for naething but the outside o' a saddle and the fore-end o' a poschay;
na, na, nae living man wad venture on that. I'll wad my best buckskins, and they were new coft
at Kirkcudbright Fair, it's been a chance job after a'. But if ye hae naething mair to say
to me, I am thinking I maun gang and see my beasts fed'; and he departed accordingly.

The hostler, who had accompanied him, gave evidence to the same purpose. He and Mrs. Mac-Candlish
were then reinterrogated whether Brown had no arms with him on that unhappy morning. 'None,'
they said, 'but an ordinary bit cutlass or hanger by his side.'

'Now,' said the Deacon, taking Glossin by the button (for, in considering this intricate subject,
he had forgot Glossin's new accession of rank),'this is but doubtfu' after a', Maister Gilbert;
for it was not sae dooms likely that he would go down into battle wi' sic sma' means.'

Glossin extricated himself from the Deacon's grasp and from the discussion, though not with
rudeness; for it was his present interest to buy golden opinions from all sorts of people.
He inquired the price of tea and sugar, and spoke of providing himself for the year; he gave
Mrs. Mac-Candlish directions to have a handsome entertainment in readiness for a party of five
friends whom he intended to invite to dine with him at the Gordon Arms next Saturday week;
and, lastly, he gave a half-crown to Jock Jabos, whom the hostler had deputed to hold his steed.

'Weel,' said the Deacon to Mrs. Mac-Candlish, as he accepted her offer of a glass of bitters
at the bar, 'the deil's no sae ill as he's ca'd. It's pleasant to see a gentleman pay the regard
to the business o' the county that Mr. Glossin does.'

'Ay, 'deed is't, Deacon,' answered the landlady; 'and yet I wonder our gentry leave their ain
wark to the like o' him. But as lang as siller's current, Deacon, folk maunna look ower nicely
at what king's head's on't.'

'I doubt Glossin will prove but shand after a', mistress,' said Jabos, as he passed through
the little lobby beside the bar; 'but this is a gude half-crown ony way.'

CHAPTER XXXIII

     A man that apprehends death to be no more dreadful but as a
     drunken sleep, careless, reckless, and fearless of what's
     past, present, or to come; insensible of mortality, and
     desperately mortal.

          --Measure for Measure.

Glossin had made careful minutes of the information derived from these examinations. They threw
little light upon the story, so far as he understood its purport; but the better-informed reader
has received through means of this investigation an account of Brown's proceedings, between
the moment when we left him upon his walk to Kippletringan and the time when, stung by jealousy,
he so rashly and unhappily presented himself before Julia Mannering, and well- nigh brought
to a fatal termination the quarrel which his appearance occasioned.

Glossin rode slowly back to Ellangowan, pondering on what he had heard, and more and more convinced
that the active and successful prosecution of this mysterious business was an opportunity of
ingratiating himself with Hazlewood and Mannering to be on no account neglected. Perhaps, also,
he felt his professional acuteness interested in bringing it to a successful close. It was,
therefore, with great pleasure that, on his return to his house from Kippletringan, he heard
his servants announce hastily, 'that Mac-Guffog, the thief-taker, and twa or three concurrents,
had a man in hands in the kitchen waiting for his honour.'

He instantly jumped from horseback, and hastened into the house. 'Send my clerk here directly,
ye'll find him copying the survey of the estate in the little green parlour. Set things to
rights in my study, and wheel the great leathern chair up to the writing-table; set a stool
for Mr. Scrow. Scrow (to the clerk, as he entered the presence-chamber), hand down Sir George
Mackenzie "On Crimes"; open it at the section "Vis Publica et Privata," and fold down a leaf
at the passage "anent the bearing of unlawful weapons." Now lend me a hand off with my muckle-coat,
and hang it up in the lobby, and bid them bring up the prisoner; I trow I'll sort him; but
stay, first send up Mac-Guffog. Now, Mac-Guffog, where did ye find this chield?'

Mac-Guffog, a stout, bandy-legged fellow, with a neck like a bull, a face like a firebrand,
and a most portentous squint of the left eye, began, after various contortions by way of courtesy
to the Justice, to tell his story, eking it out by sundry sly nods and knowing winks, which
appeared to bespeak an intimate correspondence of ideas between the narrator and his principal
auditor. 'Your honour sees I went down to yon place that your honour spoke o', that's kept
by her that your honour kens o', by the sea-side. So says she, "What are you wanting here?
ye'll be come wi' a broom in your pocket frae Ellangowan?"--So says I, "Deil a broom will come
frae there awa, for ye ken," says I, "his honour Ellangowan himsell in former times--"'

'Well, well,' said Glossin, 'no occasion to be particular, tell the essentials.'

'Weel, so we sat niffering about some brandy that I said I wanted, till he came in.'

'Who?'

'He!' pointing with his thumb inverted to the kitchen, where the prisoner was in custody. 'So
he had his griego wrapped close round him, and I judged he was not dry-handed; so I thought
it was best to speak proper, and so he believed I was a Manks man, and I kept ay between him
and her, for fear she had whistled. And then we began to drink about, and then I betted he
would not drink out a quartern of Hollands without drawing breath, and then he tried it, and
just then Slounging Jock and Dick Spur'em came in, and we clinked the darbies on him, took
him as quiet as a lamb; and now he's had his bit sleep out, and is as fresh as a May gowan,
to answer what your honour likes to speir.' This narrative, delivered with a wonderful quantity
of gesture and grimace, received at the conclusion the thanks and praises which the narrator
expected.

'Had he no arms?' asked the Justice.

'Ay, ay, they are never without barkers and slashers.'

'Any papers?'

'This bundle,' delivering a dirty pocket-book.

'Go downstairs then, Mac-Guffog, and be in waiting.' The officer left the room.

The clink of irons was immediately afterwards heard upon the stair, and in two or three minutes
a man was introduced, handcuffed and fettered. He was thick, brawny, and muscular, and although
his shagged and grizzled hair marked an age somewhat advanced, and his stature was rather low,
he appeared, nevertheless, a person whom few would have chosen to cope with in personal conflict.
His coarse and savage features were still flushed, and his eye still reeled under the influence
of the strong potation which had proved the immediate cause of his seizure. But the sleep,
though short, which Mac-Guffog had allowed him, and still more a sense of the peril of his
situation, had restored to him the full use of his faculties. The worthy judge and the no less
estimable captive looked at each other steadily for a long time without speaking. Glossin apparently
recognised his prisoner, but seemed at a loss how to proceed with his investigation. At length
he broke silence.--'Soh, Captain, this is you? you have been a stranger on this coast for some
years.'

'Stranger?' replied the other. 'Strange enough, I think; for hold me der deyvil, if I been
ever here before.'

'That won't pass, Mr. Captain.'

'That MUST pass, Mr. Justice, sapperment!'

'And who will you be pleased to call yourself, then, for the present,' said Glossin, 'just
until I shall bring some other folks to refresh your memory concerning who you are, or at least
who you have been?'

'What bin I? donner and blitzen! I bin Jans Jansen, from Cuxhaven; what sall Ich bin?'

Glossin took from a case which was in the apartment a pair of small pocket pistols, which he
loaded with ostentatious care. 'You may retire,' said he to his clerk, 'and carry the people
with you, Scrow; but wait in the lobby within call.'

The clerk would have offered some remonstrances to his patron on the danger of remaining alone
with such a desperate character, although ironed beyond the possibility of active exertion,
but Glossin waved him off impatiently. When he had left the room the Justice took two short
turns through the apartment, then drew his chair opposite to the prisoner, so as to confront
him fully, placed the pistols before him in readiness, and said in a steady voice, 'You are
Dirk Hatteraick of Flushing, are you not?'

The prisoner turned his eye instinctively to the door, as if he apprehended some one was listening.
Glossin rose, opened the door, so that from the chair in which his prisoner sate he might satisfy
himself there was no eavesdropper within hearing, then shut it, resumed his seat, and repeated
his question, 'You are Dirk Hatteraick, formerly of the Yungfrauw Haagenslaapen, are you not?'

'Tousand deyvils! and if you know that, why ask me?' said the prisoner.

'Because I am surprised to see you in the very last place where you ought to be, if you regard
your safety,' observed Glossin, coolly.

'Der deyvil! no man regards his own safety that speaks so to me!'

'What? unarmed, and in irons! well said, Captain!' replied Glossin, ironically. 'But, Captain,
bullying won't do; you'll hardly get out of this country without accounting for a little accident
that happened at Warroch Point a few years ago.'

Hatteraick's looks grew black as midnight.

'For my part,' continued Glossin, 'I have no particular wish to be hard upon an old acquaintance;
but I must do my duty. I shall send you off to Edinburgh in a post-chaise and four this very day.'

'Poz donner! you would not do that?' said Hatteraick, in a lower and more humbled tone; 'why,
you had the matter of half a cargo in bills on Vanbeest and Vanbruggen.'

'It is so long since, Captain Hatteraick,' answered Glossin, superciliously, 'that I really
forget how I was recompensed for my trouble.'

'Your trouble? your silence, you mean.'

'It was an affair in the course of business,' said Glossin, 'and I have retired from business
for some time.'

'Ay, but I have a notion that I could make you go steady about and try the old course again,'
answered Dirk Hatteraick. 'Why, man, hold me der deyvil, but I meant to visit you and tell
you something that concerns you.'

'Of the boy?' said Glossin, eagerly.

'Yaw, Mynheer,' replied the Captain, coolly.

'He does not live, does he?'

'As lifelich as you or I,' said Hatteraick.

'Good God! But in India?' exclaimed Glossin.

'No, tousand deyvils, here! on this dirty coast of yours,' rejoined the prisoner.

'But, Hatteraick, this,--that is, if it be true, which I do not believe,--this will ruin us
both, for he cannot but remember your neat job; and for me, it will be productive of the worst
consequences! It will ruin us both, I tell you.'

'I tell you,' said the seaman, 'it will ruin none but you; for I am done up already, and if
I must strap for it, all shall out.'

'Zounds,' said the Justice impatiently, 'what brought you back to this coast like a madman?'

'Why, all the gelt was gone, and the house was shaking, and I thought the job was clayed over
and forgotten,' answered the worthy skipper.

'Stay; what can be done?' said Glossin, anxiously. 'I dare not discharge you; but might you
not be rescued in the way? Ay sure! a word to Lieutenant Brown, and I would send the people
with you by the coast-road.'

'No, no! that won't do. Brown's dead, shot, laid in the locker, man; the devil has the picking
of him.

'Dead? shot? At Woodbourne, I suppose?' replied Glossin.

'Yaw, Mynheer.'

Glossin paused; the sweat broke upon his brow with the agony of his feelings, while the hard-featured
miscreant who sat opposite coolly rolled his tobacco in his cheek and squirted the juice into
the fire-grate. 'It would be ruin,' said Glossin to himself, 'absolute ruin, if the heir should
reappear; and then what might be the consequence of conniving with these men? Yet there is
so little time to take measures. Hark you, Hatteraick; I can't set you at liberty; but I can
put you where you may set yourself at liberty, I always like to assist an old friend. I shall
confine you in the old castle for to-night, and give these people double allowance of grog.
MacGuffog will fall in the trap in which he caught you. The stancheons on the window of the
strong room, as they call it, are wasted to pieces, and it is not above twelve feet from the
level of the ground without, and the snow lies thick.'

'But the darbies,' said Hatteraick, looking upon his fetters.

'Hark ye,' said Glossin, going to a tool chest, and taking out a small file, 'there's a friend
for you, and you know the road to the sea by the stairs.' Hatteraick shook his chains in ecstasy,
as if he were already at liberty, and strove to extend his fettered hand towards his protector.
Glossin laid his finger upon his lips with a cautious glance at the door, and then proceeded
in his instructions. 'When you escape, you had better go to the Kaim of Derncleugh.'

'Donner! that howff is blown.'

'The devil! well, then, you may steal my skiff that lies on the beach there, and away. But
you must remain snug at the Point of Warroch till I come to see you.'

'The Point of Warroch?' said Hatteraick, his countenance again falling; 'what, in the cave,
I suppose? I would rather it were anywhere else; es spuckt da: they say for certain that he
walks. But, donner and blitzen! I never shunned him alive, and I won't shun him dead. Strafe
mich helle! it shall never be said Dirk Hatteraick feared either dog or devil! So I am to wait
there till I see you?'

'Ay, ay,' answered Glossin, 'and now I must call in the men.' He did so accordingly.

'I can make nothing of Captain Jansen, as he calls himself, Mac- Guffog, and it's now too late
to bundle him off to the county jail. Is there not a strong room up yonder in the old castle?'

'Ay is there, sir; my uncle the constable ance kept a man there for three days in auld Ellangowan's
time. But there was an unco dust about it; it was tried in the Inner House afore the Feifteen.'

'I know all that, but this person will not stay there very long; it's only a makeshift for
a night, a mere lock-up house till farther examination. There is a small room through which
it opens; you may light a fire for yourselves there, and I'll send you plenty of stuff to make
you comfortable. But be sure you lock the door upon the prisoner; and, hark ye, let him have
a fire in the strong room too, the season requires it. Perhaps he'll make a clean breast to-morrow.'

With these instructions, and with a large allowance of food and liquor, the Justice dismissed
his party to keep guard for the night in the old castle, under the full hope and belief that
they would neither spend the night in watching nor prayer.

There was little fear that Glossin himself should that night sleep over-sound. His situation
was perilous in the extreme, for the schemes of a life of villainy seemed at once to be crumbling
around and above him. He laid himself to rest, and tossed upon his pillow for a long time in
vain. At length he fell asleep, but it was only to dream of his patron, now as he had last
seen him, with the paleness of death upon his features, then again transformed into all the
vigour and comeliness of youth, approaching to expel him from the mansion-house of his fathers.
Then he dreamed that, after wandering long over a wild heath, he came at length to an inn,
from which sounded the voice of revelry; and that when he entered the first person he met was
Frank Kennedy, all smashed and gory, as he had lain on the beach at Warroch Point, but with
a reeking punch-bowl in his hand. Then the scene changed to a dungeon, where he heard Dirk
Hatteraick, whom he imagined to be under sentence of death, confessing his crimes to a clergyman.
'After the bloody deed was done,' said the penitent, 'we retreated into a cave close beside,
the secret of which was known but to one man in the country; we were debating what to do with
the child, and we thought of giving it up to the gipsies, when we heard the cries of the pursuers
hallooing to each other. One man alone came straight to our cave, and it was that man who knew
the secret; but we made him our friend at the expense of half the value of the goods saved.
By his advice we carried off the child to Holland in our consort, which came the following
night to take us from the coast. That man was--'

'No, I deny it! it was not I!' said Glossin, in half-uttered accents; and, struggling in his
agony to express his denial more distinctly, he awoke.

It was, however, conscience that had prepared this mental phantasmagoria. The truth was that,
knowing much better than any other person the haunts of the smugglers, he had, while the others
were searching in different directions, gone straight to the cave, even before he had learned
the murder of Kennedy, whom he expected to find their prisoner. He came upon them with some
idea of mediation, but found them in the midst of their guilty terrors, while the rage which
had hurried them on to murder began, with all but Hatteraick, to sink into remorse and fear.
Glossin was then indigent and greatly in debt, but he was already possessed of Mr. Bertram's
ear, and, aware of the facility of his disposition, he saw no difficulty in enriching himself
at his expense, provided the heir-male were removed, in which case the estate became the unlimited
property of the weak and prodigal father. Stimulated by present gain and the prospect of contingent
advantage, he accepted the bribe which the smugglers offered in their terror, and connived
at, or rather encouraged, their intention of carrying away the child of his benefactor who,
if left behind, was old enough to have described the scene of blood which he had witnessed.
The only palliative which the ingenuity of Glossin could offer to his conscience was, that
the temptation was great, and came suddenly upon him, embracing as it were the very advantages
on which his mind had so long rested, and promising to relieve him from distresses which must
have otherwise speedily overwhelmed him. Besides, he endeavoured to think that self- preservation
rendered his conduct necessary. He was, in some degree, in the power of the robbers, and pleaded
hard with his conscience that, had he declined their offers, the assistance which he could
have called for, though not distant, might not have arrived in time to save him from men who,
on less provocation, had just committed murder.

Galled with the anxious forebodings of a guilty conscience, Glossin now arose and looked out
upon the night. The scene which we have already described in the third chapter of this story,
was now covered with snow, and the brilliant, though waste, whiteness of the land gave to the
sea by contrast a dark and livid tinge. A landscape covered with snow, though abstractedly
it may be called beautiful, has, both from the association of cold and barrenness and from
its comparative infrequency, a wild, strange, and desolate appearance. Objects well known to
us in their common state have either disappeared, or are so strangely varied and disguised
that we seem gazing on an unknown world. But it was not with such reflections that the mind
of this bad man was occupied. His eye was upon the gigantic and gloomy outlines of the old
castle, where, in a flanking tower of enormous size and thickness, glimmered two lights, one
from the window of the strong room, where Hatteraick was confined, the other from that of the
adjacent apartment, occupied by his keepers. 'Has he made his escape, or will he be able to
do so? Have these men watched, who never watched before, in order to complete my ruin? If morning
finds him there, he must be committed to prison; Mac-Morlan or some other person will take
the matter up; he will be detected, convicted, and will tell all in revenge!'

While these racking thoughts glided rapidly through Glossin's mind, he observed one of the
lights obscured, as by an opaque body placed at the window. What a moment of interest! 'He
has got clear of his irons! he is working at the stancheons of the window! they are surely
quite decayed, they must give way. O God! they have fallen outward, I heard them clink among
the stones! the noise cannot fail to wake them. Furies seize his Dutch awkwardness! The light
burns free again; they have torn him from the window, and are binding him in the room! No!
he had only retired an instant on the alarm of the falling bars; he is at the window again,
and the light is quite obscured now; he is getting out!'

A heavy sound, as of a body dropped from a height among the snow, announced that Hatteraick
had completed his escape, and shortly after Glossin beheld a dark figure, like a shadow, steal
along the whitened beach and reach the spot where the skiff lay. New cause for fear! 'His single
strength will be unable to float her,' said Glossin to himself; 'I must go to the rascal's
assistance. But no! he has got her off, and now, thank God, her sail is spreading itself against
the moon; ay, he has got the breeze now; would to heaven it were a tempest, to sink him to
the bottom!'

After this last cordial wish, he continued watching the progress of the boat as it stood away
towards the Point of Warroch, until he could no longer distinguish the dusky sail from the
gloomy waves over which it glided. Satisfied then that the immediate danger was averted, he
retired with somewhat more composure to his guilty pillow.

CHAPTER XXXIV

     Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
     From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?

          Titus Andronicus.

On the next morning, great was the alarm and confusion of the officers when they discovered
the escape of their prisoner. Mac- Guffog appeared before Glossin with a head perturbed with
brandy and fear, and incurred a most severe reprimand for neglect of duty. The resentment of
the Justice appeared only to be suspended by his anxiety to recover possession of the prisoner,
and the thief-takers, glad to escape from his awful and incensed presence, were sent off in
every direction (except the right one) to recover their prisoner, if possible. Glossin particularly
recommended a careful search at the Kaim of Derncleugh, which was occasionally occupied under
night by vagrants of different descriptions. Having thus dispersed his myrmidons in various
directions, he himself hastened by devious paths through the wood of Warroch to his appointed
interview with Hatteraick, from whom he hoped to learn at more leisure than last night's conference
admitted the circumstances attending the return of the heir of Ellangowan to his native country.

With manoeuvres like those of a fox when he doubles to avoid the pack, Glossin strove to approach
the place of appointment in a manner which should leave no distinct track of his course. 'Would
to Heaven it would snow,' he said, looking upward, 'and hide these foot-prints. Should one
of the officers light upon them, he would run the scent up like a bloodhound and surprise us.
I must get down upon the sea-beach, and contrive to creep along beneath the rocks.'

And accordingly he descended from the cliffs with some difficulty, and scrambled along between
the rocks and the advancing tide; now looking up to see if his motions were watched from the
rocks above him, now casting a jealous glance to mark if any boat appeared upon the sea, from
which his course might be discovered.

But even the feelings of selfish apprehension were for a time superseded, as Glossin passed
the spot where Kennedy's body had been found. It was marked by the fragment of rock which had
been precipitated from the cliff above, either with the body or after it. The mass was now
encrusted with small shell-fish, and tasselled with tangle and seaweed; but still its shape
and substance were different from those of the other rocks which lay scattered around. His
voluntary walks, it will readily be believed, had never led to this spot; so that, finding
himself now there for the first time after the terrible catastrophe, the scene at once recurred
to his mind with all its accompaniments of horror. He remembered how, like a guilty thing,
gliding from the neighbouring place of concealment, he had mingled with eagerness, yet with
caution, among the terrified group who surrounded the corpse, dreading lest any one should
ask from whence he came. He remembered, too, with what conscious fear he had avoided gazing
upon that ghastly spectacle. The wild scream of his patron, 'My bairn! my bairn!' again rang
in his ears. 'Good God!' he exclaimed, 'and is all I have gained worth the agony of that moment,
and the thousand anxious fears and horrors which have since embittered my life! O how I wish
that I lay where that wretched man lies, and that he stood here in life and health! But these
regrets are all too late.'

Stifling, therefore, his feelings, he crept forward to the cave, which was so near the spot
where the body was found that the smugglers might have heard from their hiding-place the various
conjectures of the bystanders concerning the fate of their victim. But nothing could be more
completely concealed than the entrance to their asylum. The opening, not larger than that of
a fox-earth, lay in the face of the cliff directly behind a large black rock, or rather upright
stone, which served at once to conceal it from strangers and as a mark to point out its situation
to those who used it as a place of retreat. The space between the stone and the cliff was exceedingly
narrow, and, being heaped with sand and other rubbish, the most minute search would not have
discovered the mouth of the cavern without removing those substances which the tide had drifted
before it. For the purpose of further concealment, it was usual with the contraband traders
who frequented this haunt, after they had entered, to stuff the mouth with withered seaweed,
loosely piled together as if carried there by the waves. Dirk Hatteraick had not forgotten
this precaution.

Glossin, though a bold and hardy man, felt his heart throb and his knees knock together when
he prepared to enter this den of secret iniquity, in order to hold conference with a felon,
whom he justly accounted one of the most desperate and depraved of men. 'But he has no interest
to injure me,' was his consolatory reflection. He examined his pocket-pistols, however, before
removing the weeds and entering the cavern, which he did upon hands and knees. The passage,
which at first was low and narrow, just admitting entrance to a man in a creeping posture,
expanded after a few yards into a high arched vault of considerable width. The bottom, ascending
gradually, was covered with the purest sand. Ere Glossin had got upon his feet, the hoarse
yet suppressed voice of Hatteraick growled through the recesses of the cave:--

'Hagel and donner! be'st du?'

'Are you in the dark?'

'Dark? der deyvil! ay,' said Dirk Hatteraick; 'where should I have a glim?'

'I have brought light'; and Glossin accordingly produced a tinder- box and lighted a small lantern.

'You must kindle some fire too, for hold mich der deyvil, Ich bin ganz gefrorne!'

'It is a cold place, to be sure,' said Glossin, gathering together some decayed staves of barrels
and pieces of wood, which had perhaps lain in the cavern since Hatteraick was there last.

'Cold? Snow-wasser and hagel! it's perdition; I could only keep myself alive by rambling up
and down this d--d vault, and thinking about the merry rouses we have had in it.'

The flame then began to blaze brightly, and Hatteraick hung his bronzed visage and expanded
his hard and sinewy hands over it, with an avidity resembling that of a famished wretch to
whom food is exposed. The light showed his savage and stern features, and the smoke, which
in his agony of cold he seemed to endure almost to suffocation, after circling round his head,
rose to the dim and rugged roof of the cave, through which it escaped by some secret rents
or clefts in the rock; the same doubtless that afforded air to the cavern when the tide was
in, at which time the aperture to the sea was filled with water.

'And now I have brought you some breakfast,' said Glossin, producing some cold meat and a flask
of spirits. The latter Hatteraick eagerly seized upon and applied to his mouth; and, after
a hearty draught, he exclaimed with great rapture, 'Das schmeckt! That is good, that warms
the liver!' Then broke into the fragment of a High-Dutch song,--

     Saufen Bier und Brantewein,
     Schmeissen alle die Fenstern ein;
     Ich bin liederlich,
     Du bist liederlich;
     Sind wir nicht liederlich Leute a?

'Well said, my hearty Captain!' cried Glossin, endeavouring to catch the tone of revelry,--

     'Gin by pailfuls, wine in rivers,
     Dash the window-glass to shivers!
        For three wild lads were we, brave boys,
        And three wild lads were we;
        Thou on the land, and I on the sand,
        And Jack on the gallows-tree!

That's it, my bully-boy! Why, you're alive again now! And now let us talk about our business.'

'YOUR business, if you please,' said Hatteraick. 'Hagel and donner! mine was done when I got
out of the bilboes.'

'Have patience, my good friend; I'll convince you our interests are just the same.'

Hatteraick gave a short dry cough, and Glossin, after a pause, proceeded.

'How came you to let the boy escape?'

'Why, fluch and blitzen! he was no charge of mine. Lieutenant Brown gave him to his cousin
that's in the Middleburgh house of Vanbeest and Vanbruggen, and told him some goose's gazette
about his being taken in a skirmish with the land-sharks; he gave him for a footboy. Me let
him escape! the bastard kinchin should have walked the plank ere I troubled myself about him.'

'Well, and was he bred a foot-boy then?'

'Nein, nein; the kinchin got about the old man's heart, and he gave him his own name, and bred
him up in the office, and then sent him to India; I believe he would have packed him back here,
but his nephew told him it would do up the free trade for many a day if the youngster got back
to Scotland.'

'Do you think the younker knows much of his own origin now?'

'Deyvil!' replied Hatteraick, 'how should I tell what he knows now? But he remembered something
of it long. When he was but ten years old he persuaded another Satan's limb of an English bastard
like himself to steal my lugger's khan--boat--what do you call it? to return to his country,
as he called it; fire him! Before we could overtake them they had the skiff out of channel
as far as the Deurloo; the boat might have been lost.'

'I wish to Heaven she had, with him in her!' ejaculated Glossin.

'Why, I was so angry myself that, sapperment! I did give him a tip over the side; but split
him! the comical little devil swam like a duck; so I made him swim astern for a mile to teach
him manners, and then took him in when he was sinking. By the knocking Nicholas I he'll plague
you, now he's come over the herring-pond! When he was so high he had the spirit of thunder
and lightning.'

'How did he get back from India?'

'Why, how should I know? The house there was done up; and that gave us a shake at Middleburgh,
I think; so they sent me again to see what could be done among my old acquaintances here, for
we held old stories were done away and forgotten. So I had got a pretty trade on foot within
the last two trips; but that stupid hounds-foot schelm, Brown, has knocked it on the head again,
I suppose, with getting himself shot by the colonel-man.'

'Why were not you with them?'

'Why, you see, sapperment! I fear nothing; but it was too far within land, and I might have
been scented.'

'True. But to return to this youngster--'

'Ay, ay, donner and blitzen! HE'S your affair,' said the Captain.

'How do you really know that he is in this country?'

'Why, Gabriel saw him up among the hills.'

'Gabriel! who is he?'

'A fellow from the gipsies, that, about eighteen years since, was pressed on board that d--d
fellow Pritchard's sloop-of-war. It was he came off and gave us warning that the Shark was
coming round upon us the day Kennedy was done; and he told us how Kennedy had given the information.
The gipsies and Kennedy had some quarrel besides. This Gab went to the East Indies in the same
ship with your younker, and, sapperment! knew him well, though the other did not remember him.
Gab kept out of his eye though, as he had served the States against England, and was a deserter
to boot; and he sent us word directly, that we might know of his being here, though it does
not concern us a rope's end.'

'So, then, really, and in sober earnest, he is actually in this country, Hatteraick, between
friend and friend?' asked Glossin, seriously.

'Wetter and donner, yaw! What do you take me for?'

'For a bloodthirsty, fearless miscreant!' thought Glossin internally; but said aloud, 'And
which of your people was it that shot young Hazlewood?'

'Sturmwetter!' said the Captain, 'do ye think we were mad? none of US, man. Gott! the country
was too hot for the trade already with that d-d frolic of Brown's, attacking what you call
Woodbourne House.'

'Why, I am told,' said Glossin, 'it was Brown who shot Hazlewood?'

'Not our lieutenant, I promise you; for he was laid six feet deep at Derncleugh the day before
the thing happened. Tausend deyvils, man! do ye think that he could rise out of the earth to
shoot another man?'

A light here began to break upon Glossin's confusion of ideas. 'Did you not say that the younker,
as you call him, goes by the name of Brown?'

'Of Brown? yaw; Vanbeest Brown. Old Vanbeest Brown, of our Vanbeest and Vanbruggen, gave him
his own name, he did.'

'Then,' said Glossin, rubbing his hands, 'it is he, by Heaven, who has committed this crime!'

'And what have we to do with that?' demanded Hatteraick.

Glossin paused, and, fertile in expedients, hastily ran over his project in his own mind, and
then drew near the smuggler with a confidential air. 'You know, my dear Hatteraick, it is our
principal business to get rid of this young man?'

'Umph!' answered Dirk Hatteraick.

'Not,' continued Glossin--'not that I would wish any personal harm to him--if--if--if we can
do without. Now, he is liable to be seized upon by justice, both as bearing the same name with
your lieutenant, who was engaged in that affair at Woodbourne, and for firing at young Hazlewood
with intent to kill or wound.'

'Ay, ay,' said Dirk Hatteraick; 'but what good will that do you? He'll be loose again as soon
as he shows himself to carry other colours.'

