By several authorities the largest[242] of the group of pyramids at Gizeh, or "Great Pyramid,"
has been maintained--and particularly of late by Gabb, Jomard, Taylor, and Professor Smyth--not
to be a royal mausoleum, but to be a marvellous metrological monument, built some forty centuries
ago, as "a necessarily material centre," to hold and contain within it, and in its structure,
material standards, "in a practicable and reliable shape," "down to the ends of the world,"
as measures of length, capacity, weight, etc., for men and nations for all time--"a monument"
(in the language of Professor Smyth) "devoted to weights and measures, not so much as a place
of frequent reference for them, but one where the original standards were to be preserved for
some thousands of years, safe from the vicissitudes of empires and the decay of nations." Messrs.
Taylor and Smyth further hold that this Great Pyramid was built for these purposes of mensuration
under Divine inspiration--the standards being, through superhuman origination and guidance,
made and protected by it till they came to be understood and interpreted in these latter times.
For, observes Professor Smyth, "the Great Pyramid was a sealed book to all the world until
this present day, when modern science, aided in part by the dilapidation of the building and
the structural features thereby opened up--has at length been able to assign the chief interpretations."
Professor Smyth has, in his remarkable devotedness and enthusiasm, lately measured most of
the principal points in the Great Pyramid; and for the great zeal, labour, and ability which
he has displayed in this self-imposed mission, the Society have very properly and justly bestowed
upon him the Keith Medal. But the exactitude of the measures does not necessarily imply exactitude
in the reasoning upon them; and on what grounds can it be possibly regarded as a metrological
monument and not a sepulchre, is legitimately the subject of our present inquiry. In such an
investigation springs up first this question--

Who was the Architect of the Great Pyramid?

Mr. Taylor ascribes to Noah the original idea of the metrological structure of the Great Pyramid.
"To Noah" (observes Mr. Taylor) "we must ascribe the original idea, the presiding mind, and
the benevolent purpose. He who built the Ark, was of all men the most competent to direct the
building of the Great Pyramid. He was born 600 years before the Flood and lived 350 years after
that event, dying in the year 1998 B.C. Supposing the pyramids were commenced in 2160 B.C.
(that is 4000 years ago), they were founded 168 years before the death of Noah. We are told"
(Mr. Taylor continues) "that Noah was a 'preacher of righteousness,' but nothing could more
illustrate this character of a preacher of righteousness after the Flood than that he should
be the first to publish a system of weights and measures for the use of all mankind, based
upon the measure of the earth." Professor Smyth, computing by another chronology, rejects the
presence of Noah, and makes a shepherd--Philition, slightly and incidentally alluded to in
a single passage by Herodotus[243]--the presiding and directing genius of the structure;--holding
him to be a Cushite skilled in building, and under whose inspired direction the pyramid rose,
containing within it miraculous measures and standards of capacity, weight, length, heat, etc.

THE COFFER IN THE KING'S CHAMBER IN THE GREAT PYRAMID AN ALLEGED STANDARD FOR MEASURES OF CAPACITY.

A granite coffer, stone box, or sarcophagus standing in that interior cell of the pyramid,
called the King's Chamber, is held by Messrs. Taylor and Smyth to have been hewn out and placed
there as a measure of capacity for the world, so that the ancient Hebrew, Grecian, and Roman
measures of capacity on the one hand, and our modern Anglo-Saxon on the other, are all derived,
directly or indirectly, from the parent measurements of this granite vessel. "For," argues
Mr. Taylor, "the porphyry coffer in the King's Chamber was intended to be a standard measure
of capacity and weights for all nations; and all chief nations did originally receive their
weights and measures from thence."

The works of these authors show, in numerous passages and extracts,[244] that, in their belief,
the great object for which the whole pyramid was created, was the preservation of this coffer
as a standard of measures, and the "whole pyramid arranged in subservience to it." The accounts
of it published by Mr. Taylor, and in Mr. Smyth's first work, further aver that the coffer
is, internally and externally, a rectangular figure of mathematical form, and of "exquisite
geometric truth," "highly polished, and of a fine bell-metal consistency" (p. 99). "The chest
or coffer in the Great Pyramid" (writes Mr. Taylor in 1859) "is so shaped as to be in every
part rectangular from side to side, and from end to end, and the bottom is also cut at right
angles to the sides and end, and made perfectly level." "The coffer," said Professor Smyth
in 1864, "exhibits to us a standard measure of 4000 years ago, with the tenacity and hardness
of its substance unimpaired, and the polish and evenness of its surface untouched by nature
through all that length of time."

But later inquiries and observations upset entirely all these notions and strong averments
in regard to the coffer. For--

       *       *       *       *       *

(1.) The Coffer, though an alleged actual standard of capacity-measure, has yet been found
difficult or impossible to measure.--In his first work, "Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid,"
Professor Smyth had cited the measurements of it, made and published by twenty-five different
observers, several of whom had gone about the matter with great mathematical accuracy.[245]
Though imagined to be a great standard of measure, yet all these twenty-five, as Professor
Smyth owned, varied from each other in their accounts of this imaginary standard in "every
element of length, breadth, and depth, both inside and outside." Professor Smyth has latterly
measured it himself, and this twenty-sixth measurement varies again from all the preceding
twenty-five. Surely a measure of capacity should be measureable. Its mensurability indeed ought
to be its most unquestionable quality; but this imagined standard has proved virtually unmeasurable--in
so far at least that its twenty-six different and skilled measurers all differ from each other
in respect to its dimensions. Still, says Professor Smyth, "this affair of the coffer's precise
size is the question of questions."

       *       *       *       *       *

(2.) Discordance between its actual and its theoretical measure.--Professor Smyth holds that
theoretically its capacity ought to be 71,250 "pyramidal" cubic inches, for that cubic size
would make it the exact measure for a chaldron, or practically the vessel would then contain
exactly four quarters of wheat, etc. Yet Professor Smyth himself found it some 60 cubic inches
less than this; while also the measurements of Professor Greaves, one of the most accurate
measurers of all, make it 250 cubic inches, and those of Dr. Whitman 14,000 below this professed
standard. On the other hand, the measurements of Colonel Howard Vyse make it more than 100,
those of Dr. Wilson more than 500, and those of the French academicians who accompanied the
Napoleonic expedition to Egypt, about 6000 cubic inches above the theoretical size which Professor
Smyth has latterly fixed on.

       *       *       *       *       *

(3.) Its theoretical measure varied.--The actual measure of the coffer has varied in the hands
of all its twenty-six measurers. But even its theoretical measure is varied also; for the size
which the old coffer really ought to have as "a grand capacity standard," is, strangely enough,
not a determined quantity. In his last work (1867), Professor Smyth declares, as just stated,
its proper theoretical cubic capacity to be 71,250 pyramidal cubic inches. But in his first
work (1864), he declared something different, for "we elect," says he, "to take 70,970·2 English
cubic inches (or 70,900 pyramidal cubic inches) as the true, because the theoretically proved
contents of the porphyry coffer, and therefore accept these numbers as giving the cubic size
of the grand standard measure of capacity in the Great Pyramid." Again, however, Mr. Taylor,
who, previously to Professor Smyth, was the great advocate of the coffer being a marvellous
standard of capacity measure for all nations, ancient and modern, declares its measure to be
neither of the above quantities, but 71,328 cubic inches, or a cube of the ancient cubit of
Karnak.[246] A vessel cannot be a measure of capacity whose own standard theoretical size is
thus declared to vary somewhat every few years by those very men who maintain that it is a
standard. But whether its capacity is 71,250, or 70,970, or 71,328, it is quite equally held
up by Messrs Taylor and Smyth that the Sacred Laver of the Israelites, and the Molten Sea of
the Scriptures, also conform and correspond to its (yet undetermined) standard "with all conceivable
practical exactness;" though the standard of capacity to which they thus conform and correspond
is itself a size or standard which has not been yet fixed with any exactness. Professor Smyth,
in speaking of the calculations and theoretical dimensions of this coffer--as published by
Mr. Jopling, a believer in its wonderful standard character--critically and correctly observes,
"Some very astonishing results were brought out in the play of arithmetical numerations."

       *       *       *       *       *

(4.) The dilapidation of the Coffer.--Thirty years ago this stone coffer was pointed out, and
indeed delineated by Mr. Perring, as "not particularly well polished," and "chipped and broken
at the edges." Professor Smyth, in his late travels to Egypt, states that he found every possible
line and edge of it chipped away with large chips along the top, both inside and outside, "chip
upon chip, woefully spoiling the original figure; along all the corners of the upright sides
too, and even along every corner of the bottom, while the upper south-eastern corner of the
whole vessel is positively broken away to a depth and breadth of nearly a third of the whole."
Yet this broken and damaged stone vessel is professed to be the permanent and perfect miraculous
standard of capacity-measure for the world for "present and still future times;" and, according
to Mr. Taylor--that it might serve this purpose, "is formed of one block of the hardest kind
of material, such as porphyry or granite, in order that it might not fall into decay;" for
"in this porphyry coffer we have" (writes Professor Smyth in 1864) "the very closing end and
aim of the whole pyramid."

       *       *       *       *       *

(5.) Alleged mathematical form of the Coffer erroneous.--But in regard to the coffer as an
exquisite and marvellous standard of capacity to be revealed in these latter times, worse facts
than these are divulged by the tables, etc., of measurements which Professor Smyth has recently
published of this stone vessel or chest. His published measurements show that it is not at
all a vessel, as was averred a few years ago, of pure mathematical form; for, externally, it
is in length an inch greater on one side than another; in breadth half-an-inch broader at one
point than at some other point; its bottom at one part is nearly a whole inch thicker than
it is at some other parts; and in thickness its sides vary in some points about a quarter of
an inch near the top. "But," Professor Smyth adds, "if calipered lower down, it is extremely
probable that a notably different thickness would have been found there;"--though it does not
appear why they were not thus calipered.[247] Further, externally, "all the sides" (says Professor
Smyth) "were slightly hollow, excepting the east side;" and the "two external ends" also show
some "concavity" in form. "The outside," (he avows) "of the vessel was found to be by no means
so perfectly accurate as many would have expected, for the length was greater on one side than
the other, and different also according to the height at which the measure was made." "The
workmanship" (he elsewhere describes) "of the inside is in advance of the outside, but yet
not perfect." For internally there is a convergence at the bottom towards the centre; both
in length and in breadth the interior differs about half-an-inch at one point from another
point; the "extreme points" (also) "of the corners of the bottom not being perfectly worked
out to the intersection of the general planes of the entire sides;" and thus its cavity seems
really of a form utterly unmeasurable in a correct way by mere linear measurement--the only
measure yet attempted. If it were an object of the slightest moment, perhaps liquid measurements
would be more successful in ascertaining at least as much of the mensuration of the lower part
of the coffer as still remains.

       *       *       *       *       *

(6.) Coffer cut with ledges and catch-holes for a lid, like other sarcophagi.--More damaging
details still remain in relation to the coffer as "a grand standard measure of capacity," and
prove that its object or function was very different. In his first work Professor Smyth describes
the coffer as showing no "symptoms" whatever of grooves, or catchpins or other fastenings or
a lid. "More modern accounts," he re-observes, "have been further precise in describing the
smooth and geometrical finish of the upper part of the coffer's sides, without any of those
grooves, dovetails, or steady-pin-holes which have been found elsewhere in true polished sarcophagi,
where the firm fastening of the lid is one of the most essential features of the whole business."
Mr. Perring, however, delineated the catchpin-holes for a lid in the coffer thirty years ago.[248]
On his late visit to it Professor Smyth found its western side lowered down in its whole extent
to nearly an inch and three-quarters (or more exactly, 1·72 inch), and ledges cut out around
the interior of the other sides at the same height. Should we measure on this western side
from this actual ledge brim, or from the imaginary higher brim? If reckoned as the true brim,
"this ledge" (according to Professor Smyth) would "take away near 4000 inches from the cubic
capacity of the vessel." Besides, he found three holes cut on the top of the coffer's lowered
western side, as in all the other Egyptian sarcophagi, where these holes are used along with
the ledge and grooves to admit, and form a simple mechanism to lock the lids of such stone
chests.[249] In other words, it presents the usual ledge and apparatus pertaining to Egyptian
stone sarcophagi, and served as such.

       *       *       *       *       *

(7.) Sepulchral contents of Coffer when first discovered.--When, about a thousand years ago,
the Caliph Al Mamoon tunnelled into the interior of the pyramid, he detected by the accidental
falling, it is said, of a granite portcullis, the passage to the King's Chamber, shut up from
the building of the pyramid to that time. "Then" (to quote the words of Professor Smyth) "the
treasures of the pyramid, sealed up almost from the days of Noah, and undesecrated by mortal
eye for 3000 years, lay full in their grasp before them." On this occasion, to quote the words
of Ibn Abd Al Hakm or Hokm--a contemporary Arabian writer, and a historian of high authority,[250]
who was born, lived, and died in Egypt--they found in the pyramid, "towards the top, a chamber
[now the so-called King's Chamber] with an hollow stone [or coffer] in which there was a statue
[of stone] like a man, and within it a man upon whom was a breastplate of gold set with jewels;
upon this breastplate was a sword of inestimable price, and at his head a carbuncle of the
bigness of an egg, shining like the light of the day; and upon him were characters writ with
a pen,[251] which no man understood"[252]--a description stating, down to the so-called "statue,"
mummy-case, or cartonage, and the hieroglyphics upon the cere-cloth, the arrangements now well
known to belong to the higher class of Egyptian mummies.

In short (to quote the words of Professor Smyth), "that wonder within a wonder of the Great
Pyramid--viz., the porphyry coffer,"--that "chief mystery and boon to the human race which
the Great Pyramid was built to enshrine,"--"this vessel of exquisite meaning," and of "far-reaching
characteristics,"--mathematically formed under alleged Divine inspiration as a measure of capacity
(and, according to M. Jomard, probably of length also) for all men and all nations, for all
time,--and particularly for these latter profane times,--is, in simple truth, nothing more
and nothing less than--an old and somewhat misshapen stone coffin.

STANDARD OF LINEAR MEASURE IN THE GREAT PYRAMID.

The standard in the Great Pyramid, according to Messrs. Taylor and Smyth, for linear measurements,
is the length of the base line or lines of the pyramid. This, Professor Smyth states, is "the
function proper of the pyramids base." It is professed also that in this base line there has
been found a new mythical inch--one-thousandth of an inch longer than the British standard
inch; and in the last sections of his late work Professor Smyth has earnestly attempted to
show that the status of the kingdoms of Europe in the general and moral world may be measured
in accordance with their present deviation from or conformity to this suppositious pyramidal
standard in their modes of national measurement.[253] "For the linear measure" (says Professor
Smyth) "of the base line of this colossal monument, viewed in the light of the philosophical
connection between time and space, has yielded a standard measure of length which is more admirably
and learnedly earth-commensurable than anything which has ever yet entered into the mind of
man to conceive, even up to the last discovery in modern metrological science, whether in England,
France, or Germany."

The engineers and mathematicians of different countries have repeatedly measured arcs of meridians
to find the form and dimensions of the earth, and the French made the metre (their standard
of length), 1/10,000,000 of the quadrant of the meridian. Professor Smyth holds that the basis
line of the pyramid has been laid down by Divine authority as such a guiding standard measure.

       *       *       *       *       *

