THE THIRD BOOKE

OF THE

HISTORIE OF ENGLAND.

Of Mulmucius the first king of Britaine, who was crowned with a golden crowne, his lawes, his
foundations, with other his acts and deeds.

THE FIRST CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: MULMUCIUS. Matth. West. Polyd.] Now to proceede with the aforesaid authors, Mulmucius
Dunwall[=o], or as other saie Dunuallo Mulmucius, the sonne of Cloton (as testifieth th'english
chronicle and also Geffrey of Monmouth) got the vpper hand of the other dukes or rulers: and
after his fathers deceasse began his reigne ouer the whole monarchie of Britaine, in the yéere
of the world 3529, after the building of Rome 314, and after the deliuerance of the Israelites
out of captiuitie 97, and about the 26 yéere of Darius Artaxerxes Longimanus, the fift king
of the Persians. This Mulmucius Dunuallo is named in the english chronicle Donebant, and prooued
a right worthie prince. He builded within the citie of [Sidenote: Fabian. See more in the description.]
London then called Troinouant, a temple, and named it the temple of peace: the which (as some
hold opinion, I wote not vpon what ground) was the same which now is called Blackwell hall,
where the market for buieng and selling of cloths is kept. The chronicle of England affirmeth,
that Mulmucius (whome the old booke nameth Molle) [Sidenote: Malmesburie and the Vies built.
Matth. West. Lawes made.] builded the two townes Malmesburie and the Vies. He also made manie
good lawes, which were long after vsed, called Mulmucius lawes, turned out of the British spéech
into the Latine by Gildas Priscus, and long time after translated out of latine into english
by Alfred king of England, and mingled in his statutes. He moreouer gaue priuileges to temples,
to plowes, to cities, and to high waies leading to the same, so that whosoeuer fled to them,
should be in safegard from bodilie harme, and from thence he might depart into what countrie
he would, [Sidenote: Caxton and Polychron.] with indemnitie of his person. Some authors write,
that he began to make the foure great high waies of Britaine, the which were finished by his
sonne Blinus, as after shall be declared.

[Sidenote: The first king that was crowned with a golden crowne.] After he had established
his land, and set his Britains in good and conuenient order, he ordeined him by the aduise
of his lords a crowne of gold, & caused himselfe with great solemnitie to be crowned, according
to the custome of the pagan lawes then in vse: & bicause he was the first that bare a crowne
héere in Britaine, after the opinion of some writers, he is named the first king of Britaine,
and all the other before rehearsed are named rulers, dukes, or gouernors.

[Sidenote: Polyd. Weights and measures.] Amongst other of his ordinances, he appointed weights
and measures, with the which men should buy and sell. And further he deuised sore [Sidenote:
Theft punished. Fabian.] and streight orders for the punishing of theft. Finallie, after he
had guided the land by the space of fortie yéeres, he died, and was buried in the foresaid
temple of peace which he had erected within the citie of Troinouant now called London, as before
ye haue heard, appointing in his life time, that his kingdome should be diuided betwixt his
two sonnes, Brennus and Belinus (as some men doo coniecture.)

       *       *       *       *       *

The ioint-gouernment of Belinus and Brennus the two sonnes of Mulmucius, their discontentment,
the stratagems of the one against the other, the expulsion of Brennus out of Britaine.

THE SECOND CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: Belinus and Brennus. 3574.] Brennus and Belinus began to reigne iointlie as kings
in Britaine, in the yéere of the world 3574, after the building of the citie of Rome 355, and
after the deliuerance of the Israelites out of captiuitie 142, which was about the seuenth
yéere of Artaxerxes [Sidenote: Matth. West.] surnamed Mnenon, the seuenth king of the Persians.
Belinus held vnder his gouernment Loegria, Wales, and Cornwall: and Brennus all those countries
ouer and beyond Humber. And with this partition [Sidenote: Polyd. saith 5.] were they contented
by the tearme of six or seuen yéeres, after which [Sidenote: Brennus not content with his portion.]
time expired, Brennus coueting to haue more than his portion came to, first thought to purchase
himselfe aid in forreine parties, & therefore by the prouocation and counsell of yong vnquiet
heads, [Sidenote: Elsingius.] sailed ouer into Norway, and there married the daughter of Elsung
or Elsing, as then duke or ruler of that countrie. Beline, offended with his brother, that
he should thus without his aduice marrie with a stranger, now in his absence seized all his
lands, townes, and fortresses into his owne hands, placing garisons of men of warre where he
thought conuenient.

In the meane time, Brenne aduertised hereof, assembled a great nauie of ships, well furnished
with people and souldiers of the Norwegians, with the which he tooke his course homewards,
but in the waie he [Sidenote: Guilthdacus king of Denmarke.] was encountred by Guilthdacus
king of Denmarke, the which had laid long in wait for him, bicause of the yoong ladie which
Brenne had maried, for whome he had béene a sutor to hir father Elsing of long time. When these
two fléetes of the Danes and Norwegians met, there was a sore battell betwixt them, but finallie
the Danes ouercame them of Norway, and tooke the ship wherein the new bride was conueied, and
then was she brought aboord the ship of Guilthdacus. Brenne escaped by flight as well as he
might. But when Guilthdacus had thus obtained the [Sidenote: A tempest.] victorie and prey,
suddenlie therevpon arose a sore tempest of wind and weather, which scattered the Danish fleete,
and put the king in danger to haue béene lost: but finallie within fiue daies after, [Sidenote:
Guilthdacus landed in the north.] being driuen by force of wind, he landed in Northumberland,
with a few such ships as kept togither with him.

Beline being then in that countrie, prouiding for defense against his brother, vpon knowledge
of the king of Denmarks arriuall, caused him to be staied. Shortlie after, Brenne hauing recouered
and gotten togither the most part of his ships that were dispersed by the discomfiture, and
then newlie rigged and furnished of all things necessarie, sent word to his brother Beline,
both to restore vnto him his wife wrongfullie rauished by Guilthdacus, and also his lands iniuriouslie
by him seized into his possession. These requests being plainlie and shortlie denied, Brenne
made no long delaie, but spéedilie made toward Albania, and landing with his armie in a part
thereof, incountred with his brother Beline néere vnto a wood named [Sidenote: Calater wood
is in Scotland.] as then Calater, where (after cruell fight, and mortall battell betwixt them)
at length the victorie abode with the Britains, and the discomfiture did light so on the Norwegians,
that the most of them were wounded, slaine, and left dead vpon the ground.

Hereby Brenne being forced to flée, made shift, and got ouer into Gallia, where after he had
sued to this prince, at length he [Sidenote: Seguinus or Seginus duke of the Allobrogs, now
the Delphinat of Sauoy.] abode, and was well receiued of one Seguinus or Seginus duke of the
people called then Allobrogs (as Galfrid of Monmouth saith) or rather Armorica, which now is
called Britaine, as Polychronicon, and the english historie printed by Caxton, more trulie
maie seeme to affirme. But Beline hauing got the vpper hand of his enimies, assembling his
councell at Caerbranke, now called York, tooke aduise what he should doo with the king of Denmarke:
where it was ordeined, that he should be set at libertie, with condition and vnder couenant,
to acknowledge himselfe by dooing homage, to hold his land of the king of [Sidenote: The Danes
tributarie of the Britains.] Britaine, and to paie him a yéerelie tribute. These couenants
being agréed vpon, and hostages taken for assurance, he was set at libertie, and so returned
into his countrie. The tribute that he couenanted to paie, was a thousand pounds, as the English
chronicle saith.

[Sidenote: The foure high waies finished.] When Beline had thus expelled his brother, and was
alone possessed of all the land of Britaine, he first confirmed the lawes made by his father:
and for so much as the foure waies begun by his father were not brought to perfection, he therefore
caused workmen to be called foorth and assembled, whom he set in hand to paue the said waies
with stone, for the better passage and ease of all that should trauell through the countries
from place to place, as occasion should require.

[Sidenote: The Fosse.] The first of these foure waies is named Fosse, and stretcheth from the
south into the north, beginning at the corner of Totnesse in Cornewall, and so passing foorth
by Deuonshire, and Somersetshire, by Tutherie, on Cotteswold, and then forward beside Couentrie
vnto Leicester, and from thence by wild plaines towards Newarke, and endeth [Sidenote: Watling
stréet.] at the citie of Lincolne. The second waie was named Watling stréete, the which stretcheth
ouerthwart the Fosse, out of the southeast into the northeast, beginning at Douer, and passing
by the middle of Kent ouer Thames beside London, by-west of Westminster, as some haue thought,
and so foorth by S. Albons, and by the west side of Dunstable, Stratford, Toucester, and Wedon
by-south of Lilleborne, by Atherston, Gilberts hill, that now is called the Wreken, and so
foorth by Seuerne, passing beside Worcester, vnto Stratton to the middle of Wales, and so vnto
a place called Cardigan, at the Irish sea. The [Sidenote: Erming streét.] third way was named
Ermingstréet, which stretched out of the west northwest, vnto the east southeast, and beginneth
at Meneuia, the which is in Saint Dauids land in west Wales, and so vnto Southampton. [Sidenote:
Hiknelstréet.] The fourth and last waie hight Hiknelstréete, which leadeth by Worcester, Winchcombe,
Birmingham, Lichfield, Darbie, Chesterfield, and by Yorke, and so foorth vnto Tinmouth. After
he had caused these waies to be well and sufficientlie raised and made, he confirmed [Sidenote:
Priuilegs granted to the waies.] vnto them all such priuileges as were granted by his father.

       *       *       *       *       *

Brennus marrieth with the duke of Alobrogs daughter, groweth into great honour, commeth into
Britaine with an armie against his brother Beline, their mother reconcileth them, they ioine
might & munition and haue great conquests, conflicts betweene the Galles and the Romans, the
two brethren take Rome.

THE THIRD CHAPTER.

In the meane time that Beline was thus occupied about the necessarie affaires of his realme
and kingdome, his brother Brenne that was fled into Gallia onelie with 12. persons, bicause
he was a goodlie gentleman, and séemed to vnderstand what apperteined to honour, grew shortlie
into fauour with Seginus the duke afore mentioned, and declaring vnto him his aduersitie, and
the whole circumstance of his mishap, at length was so highlie cherished of the said Seginus,
deliting in such worthie qualities as he saw in him dailie appearing, [Sidenote: Brenne marieth
the duke of Alobrogs daughter.] that he gaue to him his daughter in mariage, with condition,
that if he died without issue male, should he inherit his estate & dukedome: and if it happened
him to leaue anie heire male behind him, then should he yet helpe him to recouer his land and
dominion in Britaine, béereft from him by his brother.

These conditions well and surelie vpon the dukes part by the assent of the nobles of his land
concluded, ratified, and assured, the said duke within the space of one yéere after died. And
then after a certeine time, being knowne that the duches was not with child, all the lords
of that countrie did homage to Brenne, receiuing him as their lord and supreme gouernour, vpon
whome he likewise for his part in recompense of their curtesie, bestowed a great portion of
his treasure.

[Sidenote: Brenne with an armie returneth into Britaine.] Shortlie after also, with their assent
he gathered an armie, and with the same eftsoones came ouer into Britaine, to make new warre
vpon his brother Beline. Of whose landing when Beline was informed, he assembled his people,
and made himselfe readie to méete him: but [Sidenote: Brenne and Beline made friends by intercession
of their mother.] as they were at point to haue ioined battell, by the intercession of their
mother that came betwixt them, and demeaned hirselfe in all motherlie order, and most louing
maner towards them both, they fell to an agréement, and were made friends or euer they parted
asunder.

After this they repaired to London, and there taking aduice togither with their peeres and
councellors, for the good order and quieting of the land, at length they accorded to passe
with both their armies into Gallia, to subdue that whole countrie, and so following this determination,
they tooke shipping and sailed ouer into Gallia, where beginning the warre with fire and sword,
they wrought such maisteries, that within a short time (as saith Geffrey of Monmouth) they
[Sidenote: They inuade Gallia and Italie.] conquered a great part of Gallia, Italie, and Germanie,
and brought it to their subiection. In the end they tooke Rome by this occasion (as writers
report) if these be the same that had the leading of those Galles, which in this season did
so much hurt in Italie and other parts of the world.

After they had passed the mountaines, & were entred into Tuscan, they [Sidenote: Now Clusi.]
besieged the citie of Clusium, the citizens whereof being in great danger, sent to Rome for
aid against their enimies. Wherevpon the Romanes, considering with themselues that although
they were not in anie league of societie with the Clusians, yet if they were ouercome the danger
of the next brunt were like to be theirs: with all [Sidenote: Ambassadours sent from Rome.
Brennus answere.] spéed they sent ambassadours to intreat betwixt the parties for some peace
to be had.

They that were sent, required the capteines of the Galles, in the name of the senat and citizens
of Rome, not to molest the friends of the Romans. Wherevnto answere was made by Brennus, that
for his part he could be content to haue peace, if it were so that the Clusians would be agréeable
that the Galles might haue part of the countrie which they held, being more than they did alreadie
well occupie, for otherwise (said he) there could be no peace granted.

The Romane ambassadours being offended with these wordes, demanded what the Galles had to doo
in Tuscan, by reason of which and other the like ouerthwart wordes, the parties began to kindle
in displeasure [Sidenote: The treatie of peace breaketh off.] so farre, that their communication
brake off, and so they from treating fell againe to trie the matter by dint of sword.

The Romane ambassadours also to shew of what prowesse the Romans were, contrarie to the law
of nations (forbidding such as came in ambassage about anie treatie of peace to take either
one part or other) tooke weapon in hand, and ioined themselues with the Clusians, wherewith
the Galles were so much displeased, that incontinentlie with one voice, they required to haue
the siege raised from Clusium, that they might go to Rome. But Brennus thought good first to
send messengers thither, to require the deliuerie of such as had broken the law, that punishment
might be done on them accordinglie as they had deserued. This was done, and knowledge brought
againe, that the ambassadors were not onelie not punished, but also chosen to be tribunes for
the next yeare.

The Galles then became in such a rage (because they saw there was nothing to be looked for
at the hands of the Romans, but warre, injurious wrongs, and deceitfull traines) that they
turned all their [Sidenote: The Galles make towards Rome. The Romans incountring with the Galles
are overthrown.] force against them, marching streight towardes Rome, and by the waie destroied
all that stood before them. The Romans aduertised thereof, assembled themselues togither to
the number of 40. thousand, and encountring with Beline and Brenne, neare to the riuer Allia,
about 11. miles on this side Rome, were slaine and quite discomfited.

The Galles could scarse beléeue that they had got the victorie with so small resistance: but
when they perceiued that the Romans were quite ouerthrowne and that the field was clearelie
rid of them, they got togither the spoile, and made towards Rome it selfe, where such feare
and terror was striken into the heartes of the people, that all [Sidenote: The Romans in despaire
withdraw into the capitoll.] men were in despaire to defend the citie: and therefore the senate
with all the warlike youth of the citizens got them into the capitoll, which they furnished
with victuals and all things necessarie for the maintenance of the same against a long siege.
The honorable fathers and all the multitude of other people not apt for warres, remained still
in the citie, as it were to perish with their countrie if hap so befell.

[Sidenote: The Galles enter into Rome.] In the meane time came the Galles to the citie, and
entring by the gate Collina, they passed forth the right way vnto the market place, maruelling
to sée the houses of the poorer sort to be shut against them, and those of the richer to remaine
wide open; wherefore being doubtfull of some deceitfull traines, they were not ouer rash to
enter the same; but [Sidenote: The Reuerend aspect of the senators.] after they had espied
the ancient fathers sit in their chaires apparelled in their rich robes, as if they had bin
in the senat, they reuerenced them as gods, so honorable was their port, grauenesse in countenance,
and shew of apparell.

[Sidenote: Marcus Papirius] In the meane time it chanced, that Marcus Papirius stroke one of
the Galles on the head with his staffe, because he presumed to stroke his beard: with which
iniurie the Gall being prouoked, slue Papirius (as he sat) with his sword, and therewith the
slaughter being begun with one, all the residue of those ancient fatherlie men as they sat
in their chaires were slaine and cruellie murthered. After this all the people found in the
citie without respect or difference at [Sidenote: Rome sacked. 365.] all, were put to the sword,
and their houses sacked. And thus was Rome taken by the two brethren, Beline and Brenne, 365
yeares after the first building thereof. Besides this, the Galles attempted in the night season
to haue entred the capitoll: and in déed ordered their enterprise so secretlie, that they had
atchieued their purpose, if a [Sidenote: The capitoll defended.] sort of ganders had not with
their crie and noise disclosed them, in wakening the Romans that were asléepe: & so by that
meanes were the Galles beaten backe and repelled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Camillus reuoked from exile, made dictator, and receiueth peremptorie authoritie, he ouerthroweth
the Galles in a pitcht field, controuersie betweene writers touching Brennus and Belinus left
vndetermined; of diuers foundations, erections and reparations doone and atchiued by Belinus,
the burning of his bodie in stead of his burieng.

THE FOURTH CHAPTER.

The Romans being thus put to their extreame shift, deuised among themselues how to reuoke Furius
Camillus from exile, whom not long before they had vniustlie banished out of the citie. In
the end they did not onelie send for him home, but also created him dictator, committing into
his handes (so long as his office lasted) an absolute power ouer all men, both of life and
death. Camillus forgetfull of the iniurie done to him, and mindfull of his dutie towards his
countrie, and lamenting the state thereof, without delay gathered such an armie as the present
time permitted.

In the meane time those that kept the capitoll (being almost famished [Sidenote: A composition.]
for lacke of vittels) compounded with Brenne and Beline, that for a thousand pounds weight
in gold, the Romans should redéeme their liberties, and the said Brenne and Beline depart with
their armie out of the citie and all the territories of Rome. But at the deliuerie of the monie,
and by a certeine kind of hap, the Romans name was preserued at that time from such dishonor
and ignominie as was likelie to haue insued. For some of the couetous sort of the Galles, not
contented with the iust weight of the gold, did cast their swords also into the balance where
the weights lay, thereby to haue ouer weight: wherevpon the Romans refused to make paiment
after that weight.

And thus whilest they were in altercation about this matter, the one importunnate to haue,
the other not willing to grant, the time [Sidenote: Camillus disappointeth the Galles of their
paiment.] passed, till in the meane season Camillus came in amongst them with his power, commanding
that the gold should be had away, and affirming that without consent of the dictator, no composition
or agréement might be concluded by the meaner magistrate. He gaue a signe to the Galles to
prepare themselues to battell, whervnto they lightlie [Sidenote: The Galles overthrowne] agréed,
and togither they went. The battell being once begun, the Galles that looked earst for gold,
and not for battell, were easilie ouercome, such as stood to the brunt were slaine, and the
rest by flight constreined to depart the citie.

Polybius writeth, that the Galles were turned from the siege of the citie, through wars which
chanced amongst their owne people at home, and therefore they concluded a peace with the Romans,
and leauing them in libertie returned home againe.

But howsoeuer the matter passed, thus much haue we stept from our purpose, to shew somwhat
of that noble and most famous capteine Brennus, who (as not onelie our histories, but also
Giouan Villani the Florentine dooth report) was a Britaine, and brother to Beline (as before
is mentioned) although I know that manie other writers are not of that mind, affirming him
to be a Gall, and likewise that after this present time of the taking of Rome by this Brennus
110 yeares, or there abouts, there was another Brennus a Gall by nation (say they) vnder whose
conduct an other armie of the Gals inuaded Grecia, which Brennus had a brother that hight Belgius,
although Humfrey Llhoyd and sir Iohn Prise doo flatlie denie the same, by reason of some discordance
in writers, & namelie in the computation of the yeares set downe by them that haue recorded
the dooings of those times, whereof the error is growen. Howbeit I doubt not but that the truth
of this matter shall be more fullie sifted out in time by the learned and studious of such
antiquities. But now to our purpose.

This is also to be noted, that where our histories make mention, that Beline was abroad with
Brennus in the most part of his victories, both [Sidenote: Titus Liu. Polydor.] in Gallia,
Germanie, and Italie; Titus Liuius speaketh but onlie of Brennus: wherevpon some write, that
after the two brethren were by their mothers intreatance made friends, Brennus onlie went ouer
to Gallia, and there through proofe of his woorthie prowesse, atteined to such estimation amongst
the people called Galli Senones, that he was [Sidenote: Matth West.] chosen to be their generall
capteine at their going ouer the mountaines into Italie. But whether Beline went ouer with
his brother, and finallie returned backe againe, leauing Brennus behind him, as some write,
or that he went not at all, but remained still at home whitest his brother was abroad, we can
affirme no certeintie.

Most part of all our writers make report of manie woorthie deeds accomplished by Beline, in
repairing of cities decaied, & erecting [Sidenote: Polychr. Gal. M. Caerleon Wiske built by
Belline.] of other new buildings, to the adorning and beautifieng of his realme and kingdome.
And amongst other works which were by him erected, he builded a citie in the south part of
Wales, neare to the place where the riuer of Vske falleth into Seuerne, fast by Glamorgan,
which citie hight Caerleon, or Caerlegion Ar Wiske. This Caerleon was the principall citie
in time past of all Demetia, now called Southwales. Manie notable monuments are remaining there
till this day, testifieng the great magnificence and roiall buildings of that citie in old
time. In which citie also sith the time of Christ were thrée churches, one of saint Iulius
the martyr, an other of saint Aron, and the third was the mother church of all Demetia, and
the chiefe sée: but after, the same sée was translated vnto Meneuia, (that is to say) saint
Dauid in Westwales. In this Caerleon was Amphibulus borne, who taught and instructed saint Albon.

[Sidenote: Fabian.] This Beline also builded an hauen, with a gate ouer the same, within the
citie of Troinouant now called London, in the summitie or highest part wherof afterwards was
set a vessell of brasse, in the which were put the ashes of his bodie, which bodie after his
deceasse [Sidenote: Iohn Leland.] was burnt, as the maner of burieng in those daies did require.
This gate was long after called Belins gate, and at length by corruption of language Billings
gate. He builded also a castell eastward from this gate (as some haue written) which was long
time [Sidenote: The Tower of London built by Beline.] after likewise called Belins castell,
and is the same which now we call the tower of London. Thus Beline studieng dailie to beautifie
this land with goodlie buildings and famous workes, at length departed this life, after he
had reigned with his brother iointlie and alone the space of 26 yeres.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Gurguintus, Guintolinus, and Sicilius, three kings of Britaine succeeding ech other by lineall
descent in the regiment, and of their acts and deeds, with a notable commendation of Queene Martia.

THE FIFT CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: GURGUINTUS] Gurguintus the sonne of Beline began to reigne ouer the Britains, in
the yeare of the world 1596, after the building of Rome 380, after the deliuerance of the Israelites
out of captiuitie 164 complet, which was about the 33 yeare of Artaxerxes Mnenon, surnamed
Magnus, the seuenth king of the Persians. This Gurguint in the English chronicle [Sidenote:
Matth. West] is named Corinbratus, and by Matthew Westmin. he is surnamed Barbiruc, the which
bicause the tribute granted by Guilthdag king of Denmarke in perpetuitie vnto the kings of
Britaine was denied, he [Sidenote: Gal. M. Gurguint c[=o]strained the Danes by force to pay
their tribute.] sailed with a mightie nauie and armie of men into Denmarke, where he made such
warre with fire and sword, that the king of Denmarke with the assent of his barons was constreined
to grant eftsoones to continue the paiment of the aforesaid tribute.

After he had thus atchiued his desire in Denmarke, as he returned backe towards Britaine, he
encountred with a nauie of 30 ships beside the Iles of Orkenies. These ships were fraught with
men and women, and had to their capteine one called Bartholin or Partholin, who being [Sidenote:
Matth. West. Gal. Mon.] brought to the presence of king Gurguint, declared that he with his
people were banished out of Spaine, and were named Balenses or [Sidenote: Basques.] Baselenses,
and had sailed long on the sea, to the end to find some prince that would assigne them a place
to inhabit, to whom [Sidenote: Sée more hereof in Ireland.] they would become subiects, & hold
of him as of their souereigne gouernor. Therefore he besought the king to consider their estate,
and of his great benignitie to appoint some void quarter where they might settle. The king
with the aduice of his barons granted to them the Ile of Ireland, which as then (by report
of some authors) lay waste and [Sidenote: Polychron.] without habitation But it should appeare
by other writers, that it was inhabited long before those daies, by the people called Hibernenses,
of Hiberus their capteine that brought them also out of Spaine.

After that Gurguintus was returned into his countrie, he ordeined that the laws made by his
ancestors should be dulie kept and obserued. And thus administring iustice to his subiects
for the tearme of 19 yeares, he finallie departed this life, and was buried at London, or as
[Sidenote: Caius.] some haue at Caerleon. In his daies was the towne of Cambridge with the
vniuersitie first founded by Cantaber, brother to the aforesaid Bartholin (according to some
writers) as after shall appeare.

[Sidenote: GUINTOLINUS.] Guintolinus or Guintellius the sonne of Gurguintus was admitted king
of Britaine in the yere of the world 3614, after the building of the citie of Rome 399, and
second yere of the 206 Olimpiad. This Guintoline was a wise prince, graue in counsell, and
sober in behauior. He had also a wife named Martia, a woman of perfect beautie, & wisedome
incomparable, as by hir prudent gouernement and equall administration of iustice after hir
husbands deceasse, during hir sonnes minoritie, it most manifestlie appeared.

It is thought that in an happie time this Guintoline came to the gouernement of this kingdome,
being shaken and brought out of order with ciuill dissentions, to the end he might reduce it
to the former estate, which he earnestlie accomplished: for hauing once got the place, he studied
with great diligence to reforme anew, and to adorne with iustice, lawes and good orders, the
British common wealth, by other kings not so framed as stood with the quietnesse thereof. But
afore all things he vtterlie remooued and appeased such ciuill discord, as séemed yet to remaine
after the maner of a remnant of those seditious factions and partakings, which had so long
time reigned in this land. But as he was busie in hand herewith, death tooke him out of this
life, after he had reigned 27 yeares, and then was he buried at London.

[Sidenote: SICILIUS.] Sicilius the sonne of Guintoline, being not past seuen yeares of age
when his father died, was admitted king, in the yeare 3659, after the building of Rome 430,
& after the deliuerance of the Israelites out of captiuitie 218, & in the sixt after the death
of Alexander. [Sidenote: Queene Martia gouerneth in hir sonnes roome.] By reason that Sicilius
was not of age sufficient of himselfe to guide the kingdoms of the Britains, his mother that
worthie ladie called Martia, had the gouernance both of his realme and person committed to
hir charge.

She was a woman expert and skilfull in diuers sciences, but chiefelie being admitted to the
gouernance of the realme, she studied to preserue the common wealth in good quiet and wholsome
order, and [Sidenote: She maketh lawes.] therefore deuised and established profitable and conuenient
lawes, the which after were called Martian lawes, of hir name that first made them. These lawes,
as those that were thought good and necessarie for the preseruation of the common wealth, Alfred,
or Alured, that was long after king of England, translated also out of the British toong, into
the English Saxon speech, and then were they called after that [Sidenote: Matt. West.] translation
Marchenelagh, that is to meane, the lawes of Martia. To conclude, this worthie woman guided
the land during the minoritie of hir sonne right politikelie; and highlie to hir perpetuall
renowme and commendation. And when hir sonne came to lawfull age, she [Sidenote: Matt. Westm.]
deliuered vp the gouernance into his handes. How long he reigned writers varie, some auouch
but seuen yeares, though other affirme 15. which agréeth not so well with the accord of other
histories and times. He was buried at London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Kimarus and his sudden end, of Elanius and his short regiment, of Morindus and his beastlie
crueltie, all thrée immediatlie succeeding each other in the monarchie of Britaine, with the
exploits of the last.

THE SIXT CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: KIMARUS. Fabian.] Kimarus the sonne of Sicilius began to reigne ouer the Britaines,
in the yeare of the world 3657, and after the building of Rome 442, & in the first yeare of
the 117. Olimpiad. This Kimarus being a wild yoong man, and giuen to follow his lusts and pleasures,
was slaine by some that were his enimies, as he was abroad in hunting, when he had reigned
scarselie three yeares.

[Sidenote: ELANIUS.] Elanius the sonne of Kimarus, or (as other haue) his brother, began to
rule the Britaines in the yeare after the creation of the world 3361, after the building of
Rome 445, after the deliuerance [Sidenote: Matth. West.] of the Israelites 229, and in the
fourth yeare of the Seleuciens, after which account the bookes of Machabees doo reckon, which
began in the 14, after the death of Alexander. This Elanius in the English Chronicle is named
also Haran; by Mat. Westm. Danius; and by an old chronicle which Fabian much followed, Elanius
and Kimarus should seeme to be one person: but other hold the contrarie, and saie that he reigned
fullie 8. yeares.

[Sidenote: MORINDUS.] Morindus the bastard sonne of Elanius was admitted king of Britaine,
in the yeare of the world 3667, after the building of Rome 451, after the deliuerance of the
Israelites 236, and in the tenth yeare of Cassander K. of Macedonia, which hauing dispatched
Olimpias the mother of Alexander the great, and gotten Roxanes with Alexanders sonne into his
hands, vsurped the kingdome of the Macedonians, and held it 15 yéeres. This Morindus in the
English chronicle is called Morwith, and was a man of worthie fame in chiualrie and martiall
dooings, but so cruell withall, that his vnmercifull nature could scarse be satisfied with
the torments of them that had offended him, although oftentimes with his owne hands he cruellie
put them to torture and execution. He was also beautifull and comelie of personage, liberall
and bounteous, and of a maruellous strength.

[Sidenote: G. Mon.] In his daies, a certeine king of the people called Moriani, with a great
armie landed in Northumberland, and began to make cruell warre vpon the inhabitants. But Morindus
aduertised héerof, assembled his Britains, came against the enimies, and in battell putting
them to flight, chased them to their ships, and tooke a great number of them prisoners, whome
to the satisfieng of his cruell nature he caused to be slaine euen in his presence. Some of
them were headed, some strangled, some panched, and some he caused to be slaine quicke.

¶ These people (whome Gal. Mon. nameth Moriani) I take to be either those that inhabited about
Terrouane and Calice, called Morini, or [Sidenote: The like may be thought of those Murreis
or Morauians of whom H.B. speaketh. Fabian.] some other people of the Galles or Germaines,
and not as some estéeme them, Morauians, or Merhenners, which were not known to the world (as
Humfrey Llhoyd hath verie well noted) till about the daies of the emperour Mauricius, which
misconstruction of names hath brought the British historie further out of credit than reason
requireth, if the circumstances be dulie considered.

But now to end with Morindus. At length this bloudie prince heard of a monster that was come
a land out of the Irish sea, with the which when he would néeds fight, he was deuoured of the
same, after he had reigned the terme of 8 yeeres, leauing behind him fiue sonnes, Gorbonianus,
Archigallus, Elidurus, Vigenius, or Nigenius, and Peredurus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Gorbonianus, Archigallus, Elidurus, Vigenius, and Peredurus, the fiue sons of Morindius,
the building of Cambridge, the restitution of Archigallus to the regiment after his depriuation,
Elidurus three times admitted king, his death and place of interrement.

THE SEUENTH CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: GORBOMEN OR GORBONIANUS.] Gorbonianus the first son of Morindus succéeded his father
in the kingdome of Britain, in the yéere of the world 3676, after the building of Rome 461,
and fourth yéere of the 121. Olimpiad. This Gorbonianus in the English chronicle is named Granbodian,
and was a righteous prince in his gouernment, and verie deuout (according to [Sidenote: A righteous
and religious prince.] such deuotion as he had) towards the aduancing of the religion of his
gods: and thervpon he repaired all the old temples through his kingdome, and erected some new.

He also builded the townes of Cambridge and Grantham (as Caxton writeth) and was beloued both
of the rich and poore, for he honoured the rich, and relieued the poore in time of their necessities.
In his time was more plentie of all things necessarie for the wealthfull state of man, than
had béene before in anie of his predecessors daies. He died without issue, after he had reigned
(by the accord of most writers) about the terme of ten yeares.

Some write that this Gorbonian built the townes of Cairgrant, now [Sidenote: Cambridge by whome
it was built.] called Cambridge, & also Grantham, but some thinke that those which haue so
written are deceiued, in mistaking the name; for that Cambridge was at the first called Granta:
and by that meanes it might be that Gorbonian built onlie Grantham, and not Cambridge, namelie
because other write how that Cambridge (as before is said) was built in the daies of Gurguntius
the sonne of Beline, by one Cantaber a Spaniard, brother to Partholoin, which Partholoin by
the aduice of the same Gurguntius, got seates for himselfe and his companie in Ireland (as
before ye haue heard.)

The said Cantaber also obteining licence of Gurguntius, builded a towne vpon the side of the
riuer called Canta, which he closed with walles, and fortified with a strong tower or castell,
and after procuring philosophers to come hither from Athens (where in his youth he had bene
a student) he placed them there, and so euen then was that place furnished (as they saie) with
learned men, and such as were readie to instruct others in knowledge of letters and philosophicall
doctrine. But by whome or in what time soeuer it was built, certeine it is that there was a
citie or towne walled in that place before the comming of the Saxons, called by the Britaines
Caergrant, and by the Saxons Granchester.

This towne fell so to ruine by the inuasion of the Saxons, that at length it was in maner left
desolate, and at this day remaineth as a village. But néere therevnto vnder the Saxon kings,
an other towne was built, now called Cambridge, where by the fauour of king Sigebert and Felix
a Burgundian, that was bishop of Dunwich, a schoole was erected, as in place conuenient shall
appeare.

[Sidenote: ARCHIGALLUS.] Archigallus, the second sonne of Morindus, and brother vnto Gorbonianus,
was admitted king of Britaine, in the yeare 3686, after the building of the citie of Rome 470,
after the deliuerance of the Israelites out of captiuitie 255, and in the first yeare of Sosthenes
king of Macedonia. This Archigallus (in the English chronicle called Artogaill) followed not
the steppes of his brother, but giuing [Sidenote: He is giuen to nourish dissention.] himselfe
to dissention and strife, imagined causes against his nobles, that he might displace them,
and set such in their roomes as were men of base birth and of euill conditions. Also he sought
by vnlawfull meanes to bereaue his wealthie subiects of their goods and riches, so to inrich
himselfe and impouerish his people. For the which his inordinate dooings, his nobles conspired
against him, and finallie depriued him of all his honor and kinglie dignitie, after he had
reigned about the space of one yeare.

[Sidenote: ELIDURUS.] Elidurus the third sonne of Morindus, and brother to Archigallus, was
by one consent of the Britains chosen to reigne ouer them in his brothers stead, after the
creation of the world 3687, and after the building of the citie of Rome 471, after the deliuerance
of the Israelites 256, & in the first yeare of Sosthenes king of Macedonia. This Elidurus in
the English chronicle named Hesider, or Esoder, prooued a most righteous prince, and doubting
least he should doo otherwise than became him, if he did not take care for his brother Archigallus
estate, a man might woonder what diligence he shewed in trauelling with the nobles of the realme
to haue his brother restored to the crowne againe.

Now as it chanced one day (being abroad on hunting in the wood called Calater) neare vnto Yorke,
he found his brother Archigall wandering there in the thickest of that wildernesse, whom in
most louing [Sidenote: By this it should séeme that Acliud should not be in Scotland, contrarie
to the Scotish authors.] maner he secretlie conueied home to his house, being as then the citie
of Aldud, otherwise called Acliud. Shortlie after he feined himselfe sicke, and in all hast
sent messengers about to assemble his barons, who being come at the day appointed, he called
them one after another into his priuie chamber, and there handled them in such affectuous sort
with wise and discréet words, that he got their good wils to further him to their powers, for
the reducing of the kingdome eftsoones into the hands of his brother Archigallus.

After this he assembled a councell at Yorke, where he so vsed the matter with the commons,
that in conclusion, when the said Elidurus had gouerned the land well and honourablie the space
of thrée yeares, he resigned wholie his crowne and kinglie title vnto his brother Archigallo,
who was receiued of the Britaines againe as king by mediation of his brother in manner as before
is said. ¶ A rare [Sidenote: An example of brotherlie loue.] example of brotherlie loue, if
a man shall reuolue in his mind what an inordinate desire remaineth amongst mortall men to
atteine to the supreme souereintie of ruling, and to kéepe the same when they haue it once
in possession. He had well learned this lesson (as may appeare by his contentation and resignation)
namelie, that

  Nec abnuendum si dat imperium Deus,
  Nec appetendum,

[Sidenote: Sen. in Thiess.] otherwise he would not haue béene led with such an equabilitie
of mind. For this great good will and brotherlie loue by him shewed thus toward his brother,
he was surnamed the godlie and vertuous.

[Sidenote: ARCHIGALLUS AGAIN.] When Archigallus was thas restored to the kingdome, and hauing
learned by due correction that he must turne the leafe, and take out a new lesson, by changing
his former trade of liuing into better, if he would reigne in suertie: he became a new man,
vsing himselfe vprightlie in the administration of iustice, and behauing himselfe so woorthilie
in all his doings, both toward the nobles & commons of his realme, that he was both beloued
and dread of all his subiects. And so continuing the whole tearme of his life, finallie departed
out of this world, after he had reigned this second time the space of ten yeares, and was buried
at Yorke.

[Sidenote: ELIDURUS AGAINE. Matt. West.] Elidurus brother to this Archigallus was then againe
admitted king by consent of all the Britaines, 3700 of the world. But his two yonger [Brother
against brother.] brethren, Vigenius and Peredurus, enuieng the happie state of this woorthie
prince, so highlie for his vertue and good gouernance esteemed of the Britains, of a grounded
malice conspired against him, and assembling an armie, leuied warre against him, and in a pitcht
[Sidenote: Elidure committed to prison.] field tooke him prisoner, and put him in the tower
of London, there to be kept close prisoner, after he had reigned now this last time the space
of one yeare. Bur.] him to succéed in the gouernance of the kingdome. He builded the [Sidenote:
ELIDURUS THE THIRD TIME.] towne of Pikering, where his bodie was buried. Elidurus then, as
soone as his brother Peredurus was dead, for as much as he was next heire to the crowne, was
deliuered out of prison, and now the third time admitted king of Britaine, who vsed himselfe
(as before) verie orderlie in ministring to all persons right and iustice all the daies of
his life, and lastlie being growne to great age died, when he had [Sidenote: He is buried at
Caerleill.] reigned now this third time (after most concordance of writers) the tearme of foure
yeares: and was buried at Caerleill.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Chapter of digression, shewing the diuersitie of writers in opinion, touching the computation
of yeares from the beginning of the British kings of this Iland downewards; since Gurguintus
time, till the death of Elidurus; and likewise till King Lud reigned in his roialtie, with
the names of such kings as ruled betweene the last yeare of Elidurus, and the first of Lud.

THE EIGHT CHAPTER.

Here is to be noted, that euen from the beginning of the British kings, which reigned here
in this land, there is great diuersitie amongest writers, both touching the names, and also
the times of their reignes, speciallie till they come to the death of the last mentioned [Sidenote:
Polydor.] king Elidurus. Insomuch that Polydor Virgil in his historie of England, finding a
manifest error (as he taketh it) in those writers whome he followeth touching the account,
from the comming of Brute, vnto the sacking of Rome by Brennus, whome our histories affirme
to be the brother of Beline, that to fill vp the number which is wanting in the reckoning of
the yeares of those kings which reigned after Brute, till the daies of the same Brenne & Beline,
he thought good to change the order, least one error should follow an other, and so of one
error making manie, he hath placed those kings which after other writers should séeme to follow
Brenne and Beline, betwixt Dunuallo and Mulmucius, father to the said Beline and Brenne, and
those fiue kings which stroue for the gouernement after the deceasse of the two brethren, Ferrex
and Porrex, putting Guintoline to succéed after the fiue kings or rulers, and after Guintoline
his wife Martia, during the minoritie of hir sonne, then hir said sonne named Sicilius.

After him succéeded these whose names follow in order, Chimarius, Danius, Morindus, Gorbonianus,
Archigallo, who being deposed, Elidurus was made king, and so continued till he restored the
gouernement (as ye haue heard) to Archigallo againe, and after his death Elidurus was eftsoones
admitted, and within awhile againe deposed by Vigenius and Peredurus, and after their deceasses
the third time restored. Then after his deceasse followed successiuelie Veginus, Morganus,
Ennanus, Idunallo, Rimo, Geruntius, Catellus, Coilus, Porrex the second of that name, Cherinus,
Fulgentius, Eldalus, Androgeus, Vrianus and Eliud, after whom should follow Dunuallo Molmucius,
as in his proper place, if the order of things doone, & the course of time should be obserued,
as Polydor gathereth by the account of yeares attributed to those kings that reigned before
and after Dunuallo, according to those authours whom (as I said) he followeth, if they will
that Brennus which led the Galles to Rome be the same that was sonne to the said Dunuallo Mulmucius,
and brother to Beline.

But sith other haue in better order brought out a perfect agréement in the account of yeares,
and succession of those kings, which reigned and gouerned in this land before the sacking of
Rome; and also another such as it is after the same, and before the Romans had anie perfect
knowledge thereof; we haue thought good to follow them therein, leauing to euerie man his libertie
to iudge as his knowledge shall serue him in a thing so doubtfull and vncerteine, by reason
of variance amongst the ancient writers in that behalfe.

And euen as there is great difference in writers since Gurguintus, till the death of Elidurus,
so is there as great or rather greater after his deceasse, speciallie till king Lud atteined
the [Sidenote: Fabian.] kingdóme. But as maie be gathered by that which Fabian and other whome
he followeth doo write, there passed aboue 185 yeares betwixt the last yeare of Elidurus, and
the beginning of king Lud his reigne, in the which time there reigned 32, or 33, kings, as
some writers haue mentioned, whose names (as Gal. Mon. hath recorded) are these immediatlie
héere named; Regnie the sonne of Gorbolian or Gorbonian, a worthie prince, who iustlie and
mercifullie gouerned his people; Margan the sonne of Archigallo a noble prince likewise, and
guiding his subiects in good quiet; Emerian brother to the same Margan, but far vnlike to him
in maners, so that he was deposed in the sixt yeare of his reigne; Ydwallo sonne to Vigenius;
Rimo the sonne of Peredurus; Geruntius the sonne of Elidurus; Catell that was buried at Winchester;
Coill that was buried at Nottingham; Porrex a vertuous and most gentle prince; Cherinus a drunkard;
Fulginius, Eldad, and Androgeus; these thrée were sonnes to Chercinus, and reigned successiuelie
one after [Sidenote: Vrianus.] another; after them a sonne of Androgeus; then Eliud, Dedaicus,
Clotinius, Gurguntius, Merianus, Bledius, Cop, Owen, Sicilius, Bledgabredus an excellent musician:
after him his brother Archemall; then Eldol, Red, Rodiecke, Samuill, Penisell, Pir, Capoir;
after him his sonne Gligweil an vpright dealing prince, and a good iusticiarie; whom succeeded
his sonne Helie, which reigned 60 yeares, as the forsaid Gal. Mon. writeth, where other affirme
that he reigned 40 yeares, and some againe say that he reigned but 7 moneths.

There is great diuersitie in writers touching the reignes of these kings, and not onlie for
the number of yéeres which they should continue in their reignes but also in their names: so
that to shew the diuersitie of all the writers, were but to small purpose, sith the dooings
of the same kings were not great by report made thereof by any approoued author. But this maie
suffice to aduertise you, that by conferring the yéeres attributed to the other kings which
reigned before them, since the comming of Brute, who should enter this land (as by the best
writers is gathered) about the yéere before the building of Rome 367, which was in the yéere
after the creation of the world 2850 (as is said) with their time, there remaineth 182 yéeres
to be dealt amongst these 33 kings, which reigned betwixt the said Elidure & Lud, which Lud
also began his reigne after the building of the citie of Rome (as writers affirme) about 679
yéeres, and in the yéere of the world 3895, as some that will séeme the precisest calculators
doo gather.

Polydor Virgil changing (as I haue shewed) the order of succession in the British kings, in
bringing diuerse of those kings, which after other writers followed Beline and Brenne, to precéed
them so successiuelie after Beline and Brenne, reherseth those that by his coniecture did by
likelihood succéed, as thus. After the decesse of Beline, his sonne Gurguntius, being the second
of that name, succeeded in gouernment of the land, and then these in order as they follow:
Merianus, Bladanus, Capeus, Duinus, Sicilius, Bledgabredus, Archemallus, Eldorus, Rodianus,
Redargius, Samulius, Penisellus, Pyrrhus, Caporus, Dinellus, and Helie, who had issue, Lud,
Cassibellane, and Neurius.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of king Helie who gaue the name to the Ile of Elie, of king Lud, and what memorable edifices
he made, London sometimes called Luds towne, his bountifulnes, and buriall.

THE NINTH CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: Whereof the Ile of Elie tooke name.] Here note by the waie a thing not to be forgotten,
that of the foresaid Helie the last of the said 33 kings, the Ile of Elie tooke the name, bicause
that he most commonlie did there inhabit, building in the same a goodly palace, and making
great reparations of the sluces, ditches & causies about that Ile, for conueiance awaie of
the water, that els would sore haue indamaged the countrie. There be that haue mainteined,
that this Ile should rather take name of the great abundance of éeles that are found in these
waters and fennes wherwith this Ile is inuironed. But Humfrey Llhoyd holdeth, that it tooke
name of this British word Helig, which signifieth willowes, wherwith those fennes abound.

[Sidenote: LUD.] After the decesse of the same Helie, his eldest son Lud began his reigne,
in the yéere after the creation of the world 3895, after the building of the citie of Rome
679, before the comming of Christ 72, and before the Romanes entred Britaine 19 yéeres. This
Lud [Sidenote: A worthie prince.] proued a right worthie prince, amending the lawes of the
realme that were defectiue, abolishing euill customs and maners vsed amongst his people, and
repairing old cities and townes which were decaied: but speciallie he delited most to beautifie
and inlarge with buildings the [Sidenote: Londone inclosed with a wal. Iohn Hard.] citie of
Troinouant, which he compassed with a strong wall made of lime and stone, in the best maner
fortified with diuerse faire towers: and in the west part of the same wall he erected a strong
gate, which he commanded to be called after his name, Luds gate, and so vnto this daie it is
called Ludgate, (S) onelie drowned in pronuntiation of the word.

[Sidenote: Fabian. Gal. Mon. Matt. West.] In the same citie also he soiorned for the more part,
by reason whereof the inhabitants increased, and manie habitations were builded to receiue
them, and he himselfe caused buildings to be made betwixt London stone (sic) and Ludgate, and
builded for himselfe not farre from the [Sidenote: The bishops palace.] said gate a faire palace,
which is the bishop of Londons palace beside Paules at this daie, as some thinke; yet Harison
supposeth it to haue bin Bainards castell, where the blacke friers now standeth. He also builded
a fairer temple néere to his said palace, which temple (as some take it) was after turned to
a church, and at this daie called Paules. By reason that king Lud so much esteemed that citie
before all other of his realme, inlarging it so greatlie as he did, and [Sidenote: The name
of Troinouant changed and called London.] continuallie in manner remained there, the name was
changed, so that it was called Caerlud, that is to saie, Luds towne: and after by corruption
of spéech it was named London.

Beside the princelie dooings of this Lud touching the aduancement of the common wealth by studies
apperteining to the time of peace, he was also strong & valiant in armes, in subduing his enimies,
bountious and liberall both in gifts and kéeping a plentifull house, so that he was greatlie
beloued of all the Britaines. Finallie, when he had reigned with great honour for the space
of 11 yéeres, he died, and was buried néere Ludgate, leauing after him two sons, Androgeus
and Theomancius or Tenancius.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Cassibellane and his noble mind, Iulius Cæsar sendeth Caius Volusenus to suruey the coasts
of this Iland, he lieth with his fleet at Calice, purposing to inuade the countrie, his attempt
is bewraied and withstood by the Britains.

THE TENTH CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: CASSIBELLANE.] Cassibellane, the brother of Lud was admitted king of Britaine, in
the yéere of the world 3908, after the building of Rome 692, and before the comming of Christ
58 complet. For sith the two sonnes [Sidenote: Gal. Mon. Matt. West. Fabian.] of Lud were not
of age able to gouerne, the rule of the land was committed to Cassibellane: but yet (as some
haue written) he was not created king, but rather appointed ruler & protector of the land,
[Sidenote: Gal. Mon.] during the nonage of his nephewes. Now after he was admitted (by whatsoeuer
order) to the administration of the common wealth, he became so noble a prince and so bountious,
that his name spred farre and néere, and by his vpright dealing in seeing iustice executed
he grew in such estimation, that the Britaines made small account of his nephewes, in comparison
of the fauour which they bare towards him. But Cassibellane hauing respect to his honour, least
it might be thought that his nephewes were expelled by him out of their rightfull possessions,
brought them vp verie honourablie; assigning to [Sidenote: Matt. West.] Androgeus, London and
Kent; and to Theomantius the countrie of Cornwall. Thus farre out of the British histories,
whereby it maie be gathered, that the yéeres assigned to these kings that reigned before Cassibellane,
amount to the summe of 1058.

[Sidenote: Polydor.] But whether these gouernors (whose names we haue recited) were kings,
or rather rulers of the common wealth, or tyrants and vsurpers of the gouernment by force,
it is vncerteine: for not one ancient writer of anie approued authoritie maketh anie remembrance
of them: and by that which Iulius Cesar writeth, it maie and dooth appéere, that diuerse cities
in his daies were gouerned of themselues, as héereafter it shall more plainlie appéere. Neither
doth he make mention of those townes which the British historie affirmeth to be built by the
same kings. In déed both he and other Latine writers speake of diuerse people that inhabited
diuers portions of this land, as of the Brigantes, Trinobantes, Iceni, Silures, and such other
like, but in what parts most of the said people did certeinlie inhabit, it is hard to auouch
for certeine truth.

But what Iohn Leland thinketh héereof, being one in our time that curiouslie searched out old
antiquities, you shall after heare as occasion serueth: and likewise the opinions of other,
as of Hector [Sidenote: Hector Boetius his fault.] Boetius, who coueting to haue all such valiant
acts as were atchiued by the Britains to be ascribed to his countriemen the Scots, draweth
both the Silures and Brigantes, with other of the Britains so farre northward, that he maketh
them inhabitants of the Scotish countries. And what particular names soeuer they had, yet were
they all Scots with him, and knowne by that generall name (as he would persuade vs to beléeue)
saieng that they entred into Britaine out of Ireland 330 yéeres before the incarnation of our
Sauiour.

Neuerthelesse, how generall soeuer the name of Scots then was, sure it is, that no speciall
mention of them is made by anie writer, till about 300 yeares after the birth of our sauiour.
And yet the Romans, which ruled this land, and had so much adoo with the people thereof, make
mention of diuerse other people, nothing so famous as Boetius would make his Scotish men euen
then to be. But to leaue to the Scots the antiquitie of their originall beginning, as they
and other must doo vnto vs our descent from Brute and the other Troians, sith the [Sidenote:
More certeintie from hence forth appeareth in the historie.] contrarie dooth not plainelie
appeare, vnlesse we shall leane vnto presumptions: now are we come to the time in the which
what actes were atchiued, there remaineth more certeine record, and therefore may we the more
boldlie procéed in this our historie.

[Sidenote: Iulius Cesar.] In this season that Cassibellane had roiall gouernment héere in Britaine,
Caius Iulius Cesar being appointed by the senat of Rome to conquer Gallia, was for that purpose
created consull, and sent with a mightie army into the countrie, where after he had brought
the [Sidenote: Cesar de bello Gal. lib 4. Britains unknowne to the Romans.] Galles vnto some
frame, he determined to assaie the winning of Britaine, which as yet the Romans knew not otherwise
than by report. The chiefest cause that mooued him to take in hand that enterprise, was for
that he did vnderstand, that there dailie came great succours out of that Ile to those Galles
that were enimies vnto the Romans. And [Sidenote: Cesar de bello Gall. lib. 4. Causes of the
warre. Cesars purpose.] though the season of that yéere to make warre was farre spent (for
summer was almost at an end) yet he thought it would be to good purpose, if he might but passe
ouer thither, and learne what maner of people did inhabit there, and discouer the places, hauens,
and entries apperteining to that Ile.

Héerevpon calling togither such merchants as he knew to haue had traffike thither with some
trade of wares, he diligentlie inquired of them the state of the Ile: but he could not be throughlie
satisfied in anie of those things that he coueted to know. Therefore thinking it good to vnderstand
all things by view that might apperteine to the vse of that warre which he purposed to follow:
before he attempted the [Sidenote: Caius Volusenus sent ouer into Britaine.] same, he sent
one Caius Volusenus with a gallie or light pinesse to surueie the coasts of the Ile, commanding
him (after diligent search made) to returne with spéed to him againe. He him selfe also drew
downewards towards Bullenois, from whence the shortest cut lieth to passe ouer into Britaine.

[Sidenote: Iohn Leland. Polydor.] In that part of Gallia there was in those daies an hauen
called Itius Portus (which some take to be Calice) and so the word importeth, an harbourgh
as then able to receiue a great number of ships. Vnto this hauen got Cesar all the ships he
could out of the next borders & parties, and those speciallie which he had prouided and put
in a readinesse the last yeare for the warres (against them of Vannes in Armorica, now called
Britaine in France) he caused to be brought thither, there to lie till they should heare further.
In the [Sidenote: Vannes in Britane.] meane time (his indeuour being knowne, and by merchants
reported in Britaine) all such as were able to beare armour, were commanded and appointed to
repaire to the sea side, that they might be readie to defend their countrie in time of so great
danger of inuasion.

¶ Cesar in his commentaries agréeth not with our historiographers: for he writeth that immediatlie
vpon knowledge had that he would inuade Britaine, there came to him ambassadours from diuers
cities of the Ile to offer themselues to be subiects to the Romans, and to deliuer hostages.
Whome after he had exhorted to continue in their good mind, [Sidenote: Comius.] he sent home
againe, and with them also one Comius gouernor of Artois, commanding him to repaire vnto as
manie cities in Britaine as he might, and to exhort them to submit themselues to the Romans.
He maketh no mention of Cassibellane, till the second iournie that he made into the Ile, at
what time the said Cassibelane was chosen (as ye shall heare) to be the generall capteine of
the Britains, and to haue the whole administration of the warre for defense of the countrie:
but he nameth him not to be a king. Howbeit in the British historie it is contained, that Cesar
required tribute of Cassibelane, and that he answered how he had not learned as yet to liue
in seruage, but to [Sidenote: Which is more likelie in this behalfe, as appeared by the sequel.]
defend the libertie of his countrie, and that with weapon in hand (if néede were) as he should
well perceiue, if (blinded through couetousnesse) he should aduenture to séeke to disquiet
the Britains.

       *       *       *       *       *

Caius Volusenus discouereth to Cæsar his observations in the Ile of Britaine, he maketh haste
to conquere it, the Britains defend their countrie against him, Cæsar after consultation had
changeth his landing place, the Romans are put to hard shifts, the Britains begin to giue backe,
the courage of a Roman ensigne-bearer, a sharpe encounter betweene both armies.

THE ELEUENTH CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: Volusenus returneth.] Caius Volusenus within fiue daies after his departure from
Cesar, returned vnto him with his gallie, and declared what he had séene touching the view
which he had taken of the coasts of Britan. Cesar [Sidenote: Cesar with two legions of souldiers
passeth ouer into Britain.] hauing got togither so manie saile as he thought sufficient for
the transporting of two legions of souldiers, after he had ordered his businesse as he thought
expedient, and gotten a conuenient wind for his purpose, did embarke himselfe and his people,
and departed from Calice in the night about the third watch (which is about three or foure
of the clocke after midnight) giuing order that the horssemen should take ship at an other
place 8 miles aboue Calice, and follow him. Howbeit when they somewhat slacked the time, about
ten of the clocke in the next day, hauing the wind at will, he touched on the [Sidenote: The
Britans readie to defend their countrie.]coast of Britaine, where he might behold all the shore
set and couered with men of warre. For the Britains hearing that Cesar ment verie shortlie
to come against them, were assembled in armour to resist him: and now being aduertised of his
approch to the land, they prepared themselues to withstand him.

[Sidenote: Cesar calleth a councell.] Cesar perceiuing this, determined to staie till the other
ships were come, and so he lay at anchor till about 11 of the clocke, and then called a councell
of the marshals and chiefe capteines, vnto whome he declared both what he had learned of Volusenus,
and also further what he would haue doone, willing them that all things might be ordered as
the reason of warre required. And because he perceiued that this place where he first cast
anchor was not méete for the landing of his people, sith (from the heigth of the cliffes that
closed on ech side the narrow créeke into the which he had thrust) the Britains might annoy
his people with their bowes and dartes, before they could set foote on land, hauing now the
wind and tide with him, he disanchored from thence, and drew alongst the coast vnder the [Sidenote:
This was about day.] downes, the space of 7 or 8 miles, and there finding the shore more flat
and plaine, he approched néere to the land, determining to come to the shore.

The Britains perceiuing Cesars intent, with all spéed caused their horssemen and charets or
wagons, which Cesar calleth Esseda, out of the which in those daies they vsed to fight, to
march forth toward the place whither they saw Cesar drew, and after followed with their maine
armie. Wherefore Cesar being thus preuented, inforced yet to land with his people, though he
saw that he should haue much a doo. For as the Britains were in redinesse to resist him, so
his great and huge ships could not come néere the shore, but were forced to kéepe the déepe,
[Sidenote: The Romans put to their shifts.] so that the Romane soldiers were put to verie hard
shift; to wit, both to leape forth of their ships, and being pestered with their heauie armour
and weapons, to fight in the water with their enimies, who knowing the flats and shelues, stood
either vpon the drie ground, or else but a little waie in the shallow places of the water;
and being not otherwise encumbred either with armour or weapon, but so as they might bestir
themselues at will, they laid load vpon the Romans with their arrowes and darts, and forced
their horsses (being thereto inured) to enter the water the more easilie, so to annoy and distresse
the Romans, who wanting experience in such kind of fight, were not well able to helpe themselues,
nor to keepe order as they vsed to doo on land: wherfore they fought nothing so lustilie as
they were woont to doo. Cesar perceiuing this, commanded the gallies to depart from the great
ships, and to row hard to the shore, that being placed ouer against the open sides of the Britains,
they might with their shot of arrows, darts, and slings, remoue the Britains, and cause them
to withdraw further off from the water side.

[Sidenote: The Britans astonied.] This thing being put in execution (according to his commandement)
the Britains were not a little astonied at the strange sight of those gallies, for that they
were driuen with ores, which earst they had not séene, and shrewdlie were they galled also
with the artillerie which the Romans discharged vpon them, so that they began to shrinke and
[Sidenote: The valiant courage of an ensigne bearer.] retire somewhat backe. Herewith one that
bare the ensigne of the legion surnamed Decima, wherein the eagle was figured, as in that which
was the chiefe ensigne of the legion, when he saw his fellowes nothing eager to make forward,
first beséeching the gods that his enterprise might turne to the weale, profit, and honor of
the legion, he spake with a lowd voice these words to his fellowes that were about him; "Leape
forth now euen you woorthie souldiers (saith he) if you will not betraie your ensigne to the
enimies: for surelie I will acquit my selfe according to my duetie both towards the common
wealth, and my generall:" and therewith leaping forth into the water, he marched with his ensigne
streight vpon the enimies. The Romans douting to lose their ensigne, which should haue turned
them to great reproch, leapt out of their ships so fast as they might, and followed their standard,
so that there ensued a sore re-encounter: and that which troubled the Romans most, was because
they could not keepe their order, neither find anie sure footing, nor yet follow euerie man
his owne ensigne, but to put themselues vnder that ensigne which he first met withall after
their first comming forth of the ship.

The Britains that were inured with the shelues and shallow places of the water, when they saw
the Romans thus disorderlie come out of their [Sidenote: The fiercenesse of the Britains.]
ships, ran vpon them with their horsses, and fiercelie assailed them, and now and then a great
multitude of the Britains would compasse in and inclose some one companie of them: and other
also from the most open places of the shore bestowed great plentie of darts vpon the whole
number of the Romans, and so troubled them verie sore.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Romans get to land on the English coast, the Britains send to Cæsar for a treatie of peace,
they staie the Romane ambassadour as prisoner, Cæsar demandeth hostages of the Britains, the
Romane nauie is driuen diuers waies in a great tempest, the British princes steale out of Cæsars
campe and gather a fresh power against the Romans, their two armies haue a sharpe encounter.

THE TWELFE CHAPTER.

Caesar perceiuing the maner of this fight, caused his men of warre to enter into boates and
other small vessels, which he commanded to go to such places where most néed appeared. And
relieuing them that [Sidenote: The Romans get to land.] fought with new supplies, at length
the Romans got to land, and assembling togither, they assailed the Britains a fresh, and so
at last did put them all to flight. But the Romans could not follow [Sidenote: The want of
horssemen.] the Britains farre, because they wanted their horssemen which were yet behind,
& through slacking of time could not come to land. And this one thing séemed onelie to disappoint
the luckie fortune that was accustomed to follow Cesar in all his other enterprises.

[Sidenote: The Britans send to Cesar.] The Britains after this flight were no sooner got togither,
but that with all speed they sent ambassadours vnto Cesar to treat with him of peace, offering
to deliuer hostages, and further to stand vnto that order that Cesar should take with them
in anie reasonable sort. [Sidenote: Comius of Arras.] With these ambassadours came also Comius,
whome Cesar (as you haue heard) had sent before into Britaine, whome notwithstanding that he
was an ambassadour, and sent from Cesar with commission and instructions sufficientlie furnished,
yet had they staied him as a prisoner. But now after the battell was ended, they set him at
libertie, and sent him backe with their ambassadours, who excused the matter, laieng the blame
on the people of the countrie; which had imprisoned him through lacke of vnderstanding what
apperteined to the law of armes and nations in that behalfe.

Cesar found great fault with their misdemenor, not onelie for imprisoning his ambassador, but
also for that contrarie to their promise made by such as they had sent to him into Gallia to
deliuer hostages, in lieu thereof they had receiued him with warre: yet in the end he said
he would pardon them, and not séeke anie further [Sidenote: Cesar demandeth hostages.] reuenge
of their follies. And herewith required of them hostages, of which, part were deliuered out
of hand, and made promise that the residue should likewise be sent after, crauing some respit
for performance of the same, bicause they were to be fetched farre off within the countrie.

Peace being thus established after the fourth day of the Romans arriuall in Britaine, the 18
ships which (as ye haue heard) were appointed to conuey the horssemen ouer, loosed from the
further hauen with a soft wind. Which when they approched so néere the shore of Britaine, that
the Romans which were in Cesars campe might see them, suddenlie there arose so great a tempest,
that none of them was able to kéepe his course, so that they were not onelie driuen in sunder
(some being caried againe into Gallia, and some westward) but also the other ships that lay
at anchor, and had brought ouer the armie, were so pitifullie beaten, tossed and shaken, that
a great number of them did not onelie lose their tackle, but also were caried by force of wind
into the high sea; the rest being likewise so filled with water, that they were in danger by
sinking to perish and to be quite lost. For the moone in the same night was at the full, &
therefore caused a spring tide, which furthered the force of the tempest, to the greater perill
of those ships and gallies that lay at anchor. There was no way for the Romans to helpe the
matter: wherefore a great number of those ships were so bruised, rent and weather-beaten, that
without new reparation they would serue to no vse of sailing. This was a great discomfort to
the Romans that had brought ouer no prouision to liue by in the winter season, nor saw anie
hope how they should repasse againe into Gallia.

In the meane time the British princes that were in the Romane armie, perceiuing how greatlie
this mishap had discouraged the Romans, and again by the small circuit of their campe, gessing
that they could be no great number, and that lacke of vittels sore oppressed them, they stale
priuilie away one after another out of the campe, purposing to assemble their powers againe,
and to forestall the Romans from vittels, and so to driue the matter off till winter: which
if they might doo (vanquishing these or closing them from returning) they trusted that none
of the Romans from thencefoorth would attempt eftsoones to come into Britaine. Cesar mistrusting
their dealings, because they staid to deliuer the residue of their hostages, commanded vittels
to be brought out of the parties adioining, and not hauing other stuffe to repaire his ships,
he caused 12 of those that were vtterlie past recouerie by the hurts receiued through violence
of the tempest, to be broken, wherewith the other (in which some recouerie was perceiued) might
be repaired and amended.

       *       *       *       *       *

The maner of the Britains fighting in charets, the Romans giue a fresh sallie to the Britains
and put them to flight, they sue to Cæsar for peace; what kings and their powers were assistants
to Cassibellane in the battell against Cæsar, and the maner of both peoples encounters by the
report of diuers Chronologers.

THE XIIJ. CHAPTER.

Whilest these things were a dooing, it chanced that as one of the Romane legions named the
seuenth, was sent to fetch in corne out of the countrie adioining (as their custome was) no
warre at that time being suspected, or once looked for, when part of the people remained abroad
in the field, and part repaired to the campe: those that warded before the campe, informed
Cesar, that there appeared a dust greater than was accustomed from that quarter, into the which
the legion was gone to fetch in corne. Cesar iudging therof what the matter might meane, commanded
those bands that warded to go with him that way foorth, and appointed other two bands to come
into their roomes, and the residue of his people to get them to armor, and to follow quicklie
after him.

He was not gone anie great way from the campe, when he might sée where his people were ouermatched
by the enimies, and had much a doo to beare out the brunt: for the legion being thronged together,
the Britains pelted them sore with arrowes and darts on ech side: for sithens there was no
forrage left in anie part of the countrie about, but onelie in this place, the Britains iudged
that the Romans would come thither for it: therefore hauing lodged themselues within the woods
in ambushes the night before; on the morrowe after when they saw the Romans dispersed here
& there, and busie to cut downe the corne, they set vpon them on a sudden, and sleaing some
few of them, brought the residue out of order, compassing them about with their horssemen and
charets, so that they were in great distresse.

The maner of fight with these charets was such, that in the beginning of a battell they would
ride about the sides and skirts of the enimies host, and bestow their darts as they sate in
those charets, so that oftentimes with the braieng of the horsses, and craking noise of the
charet whéeles they disordered their enimies, and after that they had woond themselues in amongst
the troops of horssemen, they would leape out of the charets and fight on foot. In the meane
time those that guided the charets would withdraw them selues out of the battell, placing themselues
so, that if their people were ouermatched with the multitude of enimies, they might easilie
withdraw to their charets, and mount vpon the same againe, by meanes wherof they were as readie
to remooue as the horssemen, and as stedfast to stand in the battell as the footmen, and so
to supplie both duties in one. And those charetmen by exercise and custome were so cunning
in their feat, that although their horsses were put to run and gallop, yet could they stay
them and hold them backe at their pleasures, and turne and wind them to and fro in a moment,
notwithstanding that the place were verie stéepe and dangerous: and againe they would run vp
and downe verie nimblie vpon the cops, and stand vpon the beame, and conuey themselues quicklie
againe into the charet.

Cesar thus finding his people in great distresse and readie to be destroied, came in good time,
and deliuered them out of that danger: for the Britains vpon his approch with new succors,
gaue ouer to assaile their enimies any further, & the Romans were deliuered out of the feare
wherein they stood before his comming. Furthermore, Cesar considering the time serued not to
assaile his enimies, kept his ground, and shortlie after brought backe his legions into the campe.

While these things were thus a dooing, & all the Romans occupied, the rest that were abroad
in the fields got them away. After this there followed a sore season of raine and fowle weather,
which kept the Romans within their campe, and staid the Britains from offering battell. But
in the meane time they sent messengers abroad into all parts of the countrie, to giue knowledge
of the small number of the Romans, and what hope there was both of great spoile to be gotten,
and occasion to deliuer themselues from further danger for euer, if they might once expell
the Romans out of their campe. Herevpon a great multitude both of horssemen and footmen of
the Britains were spéedilie got togither, and approched the Romane campe.

Cesar although he saw that the same would come to passe which had chanced before, that if the
enimies were put to the repulse, they would easilie escape the danger with swiftnesse of foot;
yet hauing now with him thirtie horssemen (which Comius of Arras had brought ouer with him,
when he was sent from Cesar as an ambassador vnto the Britains) he placed his legions in order
of battell before his campe, and so comming to ioine with the Britains, they were not able
to susteine the violent impression of the armed men, and so fled. The Romans pursued them so
farre as they were able to ouertake anie of them, and so slaieng manie of them, & burning vp
all their houses all about, came backe againe to their campe. Immediatlie wherevpon, euen the
same day, they sent ambassadors to Cesar to sue for peace, who gladlie accepting their offer,
commanded them to send ouer into Gallia, after he should be returned thither, hostages in number
duble to those that were agréed vpon at the first.

After that these things were thus ordered, Cesar because the moneth of September was well-neare
halfe spent, and that winter hasted on (a season not méet for his weake and bruised ships to
brooke the seas) determined not to staie anie longer, but hauing wind and weather for his purpose,
got himselfe aboord with his people, and returned into Gallia.

[Sidenote: Cæsar de bello Gallico. lib. 4.] ¶ Thus writeth Cesar touching his first iournie
made into Britaine. But the British historie (which Polydor calleth the new historie) declareth
that Cesar in a pitcht field was vanquished at the first encounter, and so withdrew backe into
France. Beda also writeth, that Cesar comming into the countrie of Gallia, where the people
then called Morini inhabited (which are at this day the same that inhabit the diocesse of Terwine)
from whence lieth the shortest passage ouer into Britaine, now called England, got togither
80 saile of great ships and row gallies, wherewith he passed ouer into Britaine, & there at
the first being wearied with sharpe and sore fight, and after taken with a grieuous tempest,
he lost the greater part of his nauie, with no small number of his souldiers, and almost all
his horssemen: and therwith being returned into Gallia, placed his souldiers in stéeds to soiourne
there for the winter season. Thus saith Bede. The British historie moreouer maketh mention
of thrée vnder-kings that aided Cassibellane in this first battell fought with Cesar, as Cridiorus
alias Ederus, king of Albania, now called Scotland: Guitethus king of Venedocia, that is Northwales:
and Britaell king of Demetia, at this day called Southwales.

The same historie also maketh mention of one Belinus that was generall of Cassibellanes armie,
and likewise of Nenius brother to Cassibellane, who in fight happened to get Cesars swoord
fastened in his shield by a blow which Cesar stroke at him. Androgeus also and Tenancius were
at the battell in aid of Cassibellane. But Nenius died within 15 daies after the battell of
the hurt receiued at Cesars hand, although after he was so hurt, he slue Labienus one of the
Romane tribunes: all which may well be true, sith Cesar either maketh the best of things for
his owne honour, or else coueting to write but commentaries, maketh no account to declare the
néedeles circumstances, or anie more of the matter, than the chiefe points of his dealing.

[Sidenote: Hector Boet.] Againe, the Scotish historiographers write, that when it was first
knowne to the Britains, that Cesar would inuade them, there came from Cassibellane king of
Britaine an ambassador vnto Ederus king of Scots, who in the name of king Cassibellane required
aid against the common enimies the Romains, which request was granted, and 10 thousand Scots
sent to the aid of Cassibellane. At their comming to London, they were most ioifullie receiued
of Cassibellane, who at the same time had knowledge that the Romans were come on land, and
had beaten such Britains backe as were appointed to resist their landing. Wherevpon Cassibellane
with all his whole puissance mightilie augmented, not onlie with the succours of the Scots,
but also of the Picts (which in that common cause had sent also of their people to aid the
Britains) set forward towards the place where he vnderstood the enimies to be.

At their first approch togither, Cassibellane sent foorth his horssemen and charets called
Esseda, by the which he thought to disorder the araie of the enimies. Twice they incountred
togither with doubtfull victorie. At length they ioined puissance against puissance, and fought
a verie sore and cruell battell, till finally at the sudden comming of the Welshmen and Cornishmen,
so huge a noise was raised by the sound of bels hanging at their trappers and charets, that
the Romans astonied therewith, were more easilie put to flight. The Britains, Scots, and Picts
following the chase without order or araie, so that by reason the Romans kept themselues close
togither, the Britains, Scots, & Picts did scarse so much harme to the enimies as they themselues
receiued. But yet they followed on still vpon the Romans till it was darke night.

Cesar after he had perceiued them once withdrawne, did what he could to assemble his companies
togither, minding the next morning to séeke his reuenge of the former daies disaduantage. But
forsomuch as knowledge was giuen him that his ships (by reason of a sore tempest) were so beaten
and rent, that manie of them were past seruice, he doubted least such newes would incourage
his enimies, and bring his people into despaire. Wherfore he determined not to fight till time
more conuenient, sending all his wounded folks vnto the ships, which he commanded to be newlie
rigged and trimmed. After this, kéeping his armie for a time within the place where he was
incamped without issuing foorth, he shortlie drew to the sea side, where his ships laie at
anchor, and there within a strong place fortified for the purpose he lodged his host, and finallie
without hope to atchieue anie other exploit auaileable for that time, he tooke the sea with
such ships as were apt for sailing, and so repassed into Gallia, leauing behind him all the
spoile and baggage for want of vessels and leisure to conueie it ouer. ¶ Thus haue the Scots
in their chronicles framed the matter, more to the conformitie of the Romane histories, than
according to the report of our British and English writers: and therefore we haue thought good
to shew it héere, that the diuersitie of writers and their affections may the better appéere.

Of this sudden departing also, or rather fléeing of Iulius Cesar out of Britaine, Lucanus the
poet maketh mention, reciting the saieng of Pompeius in an oration made by him vnto his souldiers,
wherin he reprochfullie and disdainfullie reprooued the dooings of Cesar in Britaine, saieng:

  Territa quæsitis ostendit terga Britannis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cæsar taketh a new occasion to make warre against the Britains, he arriueth on the coast without
resistance, the number of his ships, both armies incounter, why Cæsar forbad the Romans to
pursue the discomfited Britains, he repaireth his nauie, the Britains choose Cassibellane their
cheefe gouernour, and skirmish afresh with their enimies, but haue the repulse in the end.

THE XIIIJ. CHAPTER.

Now will we returne to the sequele of the matter, as Cesar himselfe reporteth. After his comming
into Gallia, there were but two cities [Sidenote: Dion Cassius.] of all Britaine that sent
ouer their hostages according to their couenant, which gaue occasion to Cesar to picke a new
quarrell against them, which if it had wanted, he would yet (I doubt not) haue found some other:
for his full meaning was to make a more full conquest of that Ile. Therefore purposing to passe
againe thither, as he that had a great desire to bring the Britains vnder the obedience of
the Romane estate, he caused a great number of ships to be prouided in the winter season and
put in a readinesse, so that against the next spring there were found to be readie rigged six
hundred ships, beside 28 gallies. [Sidenote: Cæsar de bello Gal. lib. 5.] Héerevpon hauing
taken order for the gouernance of Gallia in his absence, about the beginning of the spring
he came to the hauen of Calice, whither (according to order by him prescribed) all his ships
were come, except 40 which by tempest were driuen backe, and could not as yet come to him.

After he had staied at Calice (as well for a conuenient wind, as for other incidents) certeine
daies, at length when the weather so changed that it serued his purpose, he tooke the sea,
& hauing with him fiue legions of souldiers, and about two thousand horssemen, he departed
out of Calice hauen about sun setting with a soft southwest wind, directing his course forward:
about midnight the wind fell, & so by a calme he was carried alongst with the tide, so that
in the morning when the day appéered, he might behold Britaine vpon his left hand. Then following
the streame as the course of the tide changed, he forced with oares to fetch the shore vpon
that part of the coast, which he had discouered, and tried the last yeere to be the best landing
place for the armie. The diligence of the souldiers was shewed héere to be great, who with
continuall toile droue foorth the heauie ships, to kéepe course with the gallies, & so at length
they landed in Britaine about noone on the next day, finding not one to resist his comming
ashore: for as he learned by certeine prisoners which were taken after his comming to land,
the Britains being assembled in purpose to haue resisted him, through feare striken into their
harts, at the discouering of such an huge number of ships, they forsooke the shore and got
them vnto the mountaines. There were in deed of vessels one and other, what with vittellers,
& those which priuat men had prouided and furnished foorth for their owne vse, being ioined
to the ordinarie number, at the least eight hundred saile, which appeering in sight all at
one time, made a wonderfull muster, and right terrible in the eies of the Britains.

But to procéed: Cesar being got to land, incamped his armie in a place conuenient: and after
learning by the prisoners, into what part the enimies were withdrawne, he appointed one Quintus
Atrius to remaine vpon the safegard of the nauie, with ten companies or cohorts of footmen,
and thrée hundred horssemen: and anon after midnight marched foorth himselfe with the residue
of his people toward the Britains, and hauing made 12 miles of way, he got sight of his enimies
host, who sending downe their horssemen and charets vnto the riuer side, skirmished with the
Romans, meaning to beate them backe from the higher ground: but being assailed of the Romane
horssemen, they were repelled, & tooke the woods for their refuge, wherein they had got a place
verie strong, both by nature and helpe of hand, which (as was to be thought) had béene fortified
before, in time of some ciuill warre amongst them: for all the entries were closed with trées
which had béene cut downe for that purpose. Howbeit the souldiers of the 7 legion casting a
trench before them, found meanes to put backe the Britains from their defenses, and so entring
vpon them, droue them out of the woods. But Cesar would not suffer the Romans to follow the
Britains, bicause the nature of the countrie was not knowne vnto them: and againe the day was
farre spent, so that he would haue the residue thereof bestowed in fortifieng his campe.

The next day, as he had sent foorth such as should haue pursued the Britains, word came to
him from Quintus Atrius, that his nauie by rigour of a sore and hideous tempest was gréeuouslie
molested, and throwne vpon the shore, so that the cabels and tackle being broken and destroied
with force of the vnmercifull rage of wind, the maisters and mariners were not able to helpe
the matter. Cesar calling backe those which he had sent foorth, returned to his ships, and
finding them in such state as he had heard, tooke order for the repairing of those that were
not vtterlie destroied, and caused them so to be drawne vp to the land, that with a trench
he might so compasse in a plot of ground, that might serue both for defense of his ships, and
also for the incamping of those men of warre, which he should leaue to attend vpon the safegard
of the same. And bicause there were at the least a fortie ships lost by violence of this tempest,
so as there was no hope of recouerie in them, he saw yet how the rest with great labour and
cost might be repaired: wherefore he chose out wrights among the legions, sent for other into
Gallia, and wrote ouer to such as he had left there in charge with the gouernment of the countrie,
to prouide so manie ships as they could, and to send them ouer vnto him. He spent a ten daies
about the repairing of his nauie, and in fortifieng the campe for defense thereof, which done,
he left those within it that were appointed there before, and then returned towards his enimies.

At his comming backe to the place where he had before incamped, he found them there readie
to resist him, hauing their numbers hugelie increased: for the Britains hearing that he was
returned with such a mightie number of ships assembled out of all parts of the land, and had
by general consent appointed the whole rule and order of all things touching the warre vnto
Cassiuellane or Cassibelane, whose dominion was diuided from the cities situat néere to the
sea coast, by the riuer of Thames, 80 miles distant from the sea coast. [Sidenote: Cassibellane
as should séeme, ruled in the parties of Oxfordshire, Barkshire, Buckinghamshire, and Bedfordshire.]
This Cassibellane before time had bin at continuall warre with other rulers, and cities of
the land: but now the Britains moued with the comming of the Romans, chose him to be chiefe
gouernour of all their armie, permitting the order and rule of all things touching the defense
of their countrie against the Romans onelie to him. Their horssemen and charets skirmished
by the waie with the Romans, but so as they were put backe oftentimes into the woods and hills
adioining: yet the Britains slue diuers of the Romans as they followed anie thing egerlie in
the pursute.

Also within a while after, as the Romans were busie in fortifieng their campe, the Britains
suddenlie issued out of the woods, and fierselie assailed these that warded before the campe,
vnto whose aid Cesar sent two of the chiefest cohorts of two legions, the which being placed
but a little distance one from another, when the Romans began to be discouraged with this kind
of fight, the Britains therewith burst through their enimies, and came backe from thence in
safetie. That daie Quintus Laberius Durus a tribune was slaine. At length Cesar sending sundrie
other cohorts to the succour of his people that were in fight, and shrewdlie handled as it
appéered, the Britains in the end were put backe. Neuerthelesse, that repulse was but at the
pleasure of fortune; for they quited themselues afterwards like men, defending their territories
with such munition as they had, vntill such time as either by policie or inequalitie of power
they were vanquished; as you shall sée after in the course of the historie. Howbeit in fine
they were ouer-run and vtterlie subdued, but not without much bloudshed and slaughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Romans heauie armor their great hinderance, the maner of the Britains fighting in warre,
their incounter with their enimies, their discomfiture, the worthie stratagems or martiall
exploits of Cassibellane, the Troinouants submission to Cæsar, and their sute touching Mandubratius,
manie of the Britains are taken and slaine of the Romans.

THE XV. CHAPTER.

In all this maner of skirmishing and fight which chanced before the campe, euen in the sight
and view of all men, it was perceiued that [Sidenote: The Romans heauie armor.] the Romans,
by reason of their heauie armour (being not able either to follow the Britains as they retired,
or so bold as to depart from their ensignes, except they would runne into danger of casting
themselues awaie) were nothing méete to match with such kind of enimies: and as for their horssemen,
they fought likewise in great hazard, bicause the Britains would oftentimes of purpose retire,
and when they had trained the Romane horssemen a litle from their legions of footmen, they
would leape out of their charrets and incounter with them on foot. And so the battell of horssemen
was dangerous, and like in all points whether they pursued or retired.

[Sidenote: The manner of Britains in the warres.] This also was the maner of the Britains:
they fought not close togither, but in sunder, and diuided into companies one separated from
another by a good distance, and had their the troopes standing in places conuenient, to the
which they might retire, and so reléeue one another with sending new fresh men to supplie the
roomes of them that were hurt or wearie. The next day after they had thus fought before the
campe of the Romans, they shewed themselues aloft on the hills, and began to skirmish with
the Romane horssemen, but not so hotlie as they had doone the day before. But about noone,
when Cesar had sent foorth thrée legions of footemen and all his horssemen vnder the [Sidenote:
Caius Trebonius.] leading of his lieutenant Caius Trebonius to fetch in forrage, they suddenlie
brake out on euerie side, and vpon the forragers. The [Sidenote: Dion Cassius saith, that the
Britains vanquished the Roman footmen at this time, but were put to the worst by the horssemen.]
Romans so far foorth as they might, not breaking their arraie, nor going from their ensignes
or guidons, gaue the charge on them, and fiercelie repelled them, so that the horssemen hauing
the legions of footemen at their backs, followed the Britains so long as they might haue the
said legions in sight readie to succour them of néed were: by reason whereof, they slue a great
number of the Britains, not giuing them leasure to recouer themselues, nor to staie that they
might haue time to get out of their charrets. After this chase and discomfiture, all such as
were come from other parties to the aid of their fellowes departed home, & after that day the
Britains aduentured to fight against Cesar with their maine power; and withdrawing beyond the
riuer [Sidenote: *(which is to be supposed was at Kingston) or not far from thence.] of *Thames,
determined to stop the enimies from passing the same, if by anie meanes they might: and whereas
there was but one foord by the which they might come ouer, Cassibellane caused the same to
be set full of sharpe stakes, not onlie in the middest of the water, but also at the comming
foorth on that side where he was lodged with his armie in good order, readie to defend the
passage. Cesar learning by relation of prisoners which he tooke, what the Britains intended
to doo, marched foorth to the riuer side, where the foord was, by the which his armie might
passe the same on foot though verie hardlie. At his comming thither, he might perceiue how
the Britains were readie on the further side to impeach his passage, and how that the banke
at the comming foorth of the water was pight full of sharpe stakes, and so likewise was the
chanell of the riuer set with piles which were couered with the water.

These things yet staied not Cesar, who appointing his horssemen to passe on before, commanded
the footemen to follow. The souldiers entring the water, waded through with such spéed and
violence (nothing appéering of them aboue water but their heads) that the Britains were constreined
to giue place, being not able to susteine the brunt of the Romane horssemen, and the legions
of their footemen, and so abandoning the place betooke them to flight. Cassibellane not minding
to trie the matter anie more by battell, sent awaie the most part of his people, but yet kept
with him about a foure thousand charretmen or wagoners, and still watched what waie the Romans
tooke, coasting them euer as they marched, and kept somewhat aside within the couert of woods,
and other combersome places. And out of those quarters through which he vnderstood the Romans
wold passe, he gathered both men and cattell into the woods & thicke forrests, leauing nothing
of value abroad in the champion countrie. And when the Roman horssemen did come abroad into
the countrie to séeke booties, he sent out his charrets vnto the knowne waies and passages
to skirmish with the same horssemen, so much to the disaduantage of the Romans, that they durst
not straie farre from their maine armie. Neither would Cesar permit them (least they might
haue béene vtterlie distressed by the Britains) to depart further than the maine battels of
the footemen kept pace with them, by reason whereof the countrie was not indamaged by fire
and spoile, but onlie where the armie marched.

[Sidenote: Troinouants where they inhabited.] In the meane time, the Troinouants which some
take to be Middlesex & Essex men, whose citie was the best fensed of all those parties, and
thought to be the same that now is called London, sent ambassadours vnto Cesar, offering to
submit themselues vnto him, and to obeie his ordinances, and further besought him to defend
Mandubratius from the iniuries of K. Cassibellane, which Mandubratius had fled vnto Cesar into
France, after that Cassibellane had slaine his father named [Sidenote: Imanuentius.] Imanuentius,
that was chiefe lord and king of the Troinouants, and so now by their ambassadors the same
Troinouants requested Cesar, not onelie to receiue Mandubratius into his protection, but also
to send him vnto them, that he might take the gouernment and rule of their citie into his hands.
Cesar commanded them to deliuer vnto him 40 hostages, and graine for his armie, and therewith
sent [Sidenote: Some take the Troinouants to be Londoners.] Mandubratius vnto them. The Troinouants
accomplished his commandements with all spéed, sending both the appointed number of hostages,
and also graine for the armie. And being thus defended and preserued from iniurie of the souldiers,
the people called Cenimagni, Segontiaci, Ancalites, Bibroci, and Cassi, submitted themselues
vnto Cesar, by whom he vnderstood that the towne of Cassibellane was not far from the place
where he was then incamped fensed with wooddes and marishes, into the which a great number
of people with their cattell and other substance was withdrawne. The Britains in those daies
(as Cesar writeth) called that a towne or hold, which they had fortified with anie thicke combersome
wood, with trench and rampire, into the which they vsed to get themselues for the auoiding
of inuasion.

Cesar with his legions of souldiers therfore marched thither, and finding the place verie strong
both by nature and helpe of hand, assaulted it on two partes. The Britains defending their
strength a while, at length not able longer to endure the impression of the Romans, fled out
on the contrarie side of the towne where the enimies were not. Within this place a great number
of cattell was found, and manie of the Romans taken by the Britains that followed them in chase,
and manie also slaine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cassibellane dooth send vnto the foure kings of Kent for aid against Cæsars host, he offereth
submission to Cæsar, the Britains become his tributaries, he returneth into Gallia with the
remnant of his armie: the differing report of Cæsars commentaries and our historiographers
touching these warlike affaires; of a sore fray with bloudshed and manslaughter vpon a light
occasion; Cæsar taketh opportunitie to get the conquest of the land by the division betweene
Cassibellane and Androgeus, the time of the Britains subiection to the Romans.

THE XVJ. CHAPTER.

Now whilest these thinges passed on this sort in those parts, [Sidenote: Foure kings in Kent]
Cassibellane sent messengers into Kent vnto foure kings (which ruled that side of the land
in those daies) Cingetorix, Caruilius, Taximagulus, and Segonax, commanding them, that assembling
togither their whole puissance, they should assaile the campe of the Romans by the sea side
where certeine bands lay (as ye haue heard) for safegard of the nauie. They according to his
appointment came suddenlie thither, and by the Romans that sailed forth vpon them were sharplie
fought with, and lost diuers of their men that were slaine and taken, and amongst the prisoners
that the Romans tooke, Cingetorix was one. When Cassibellane heard these newes, being sore
troubled for these losses thus chancing one in the necke of an other, but namelie most discouraged,
for that diuers cities had yéelded vnto the Romans: he sent ambassadours by means of Romius
of Arras vnto Cesar, offering to submit himselfe.

Cesar meaning to winter in Gallia, and therefore because summer drew towards an end, willing
to dispatch in Britaine, commanded that hostages should be deliuered, and appointed what tribute
the Britains should yéerelie send vnto the Romans. He also forbad and commanded Cassibellane,
that he should not in anie wise trouble or indamage Madubratius or the Londoners. After this,
when he had receiued the hostages, he brought his armie to the sea, and there found his ships
well repaired, decked, and in good point: therefore he commanded that they should be had downe
to the sea. And because he had a great number of prisoners, and diuers of his ships were lost
in the tempest, he appointed to transport his armie ouer into Gallia at two conueies, which
was doone with good successe about the middest of September, though the ships returning for
the residue of the armie, after the first conueie, were driuen so with force of weather, that
a great number of them could not come to land at the place appointed: so that Cesar was constreined
to fraught those that he could get with a greater burden, and so departed from the coast of
Britaine, and safelie landed with the remnant of his people in Gallia with as good [Sidenote:
Dion Cassius.] spéed as he could haue desired. He thought not good to leaue anie of his people
behind him, knowing that if he should so doo, they were in danger to be cast awaie. And so
because he could not well remaine there all the winter season for doubt of rebellion in Gallia,
he was contented to take vp, and returne thither, sith he had doone sufficientlie for the time,
least in coueting the more, he might haue come in perill to lose that which he had alreadie
obteined.

Thus according to that which Cesar himselfe and other autentike authors haue written, was Britaine
made tributarie to the Romans by [Sidenote: Gal. Mon. Matt. West.] the conduct of the same
Cesar. ¶ But our histores farre differ from this, affirming that Cesar comming the second time,
was by the Britains with valiancie and martiall prowesse beaten and repelled, as he was at
the first, and speciallie by meanes that Cassibellane had pight in the Thames great piles of
trées piked with yron, through which his ships being entred the riuer, were perished and lost.
And after his comming a land, he was vanquished in battell, and constrained to flee into Gallia
with those ships that remained. For ioy of this second victorie (saith Galfrid) Cassibellane
made a great feast at London, and there did sacrifice to the gods.

At this feast there fell variance betwixt two yoong gentlemen, the one named Hirilda, nephew
to Cassibellane, and the other Euelie or Eweline, being of aliance to Androgeus earle of London.
They fell at discord about wrestling, and after multiplieng of words, they came to dealing
of blowes, by meanes whereof parts were taken, so that there ensued a sore fraie, in the which
diuerse were wounded and hurt, and amongst other Hirilda the kings nephew was slaine by the
hands of Eweline. The king sore displeased herewith, meant to punish Eweline according to the
order of his lawes, so that he was summoned to appeare in due forme to make answer to the murder:
but Eweline by the comfort of Androgeus disobeied the summons, & departed the court with Androgeus,
in contempt of the king and his lawes. The king to be reuenged vpon Androgeus, gathered a power,
and began to make warre vpon him.

Androgeus perceiuing himselfe not able to withstand the kings puissance, sent letters to Iulius
Cesar, exhorting him to returne into Britaine, and declaring the whole matter concerning the
variance betwixt him and the king, promising to aid the Romans in all that he might. Iulius
Cesar ioifull of this message, prepared his nauie, and with all spéed with a mightie host imbarked
in the same, came toward Britaine: but yer he would land, doubting some treason in Androgeus,
he receiued from him in hostage his sonne named Scena, and thirtie other of the best and most
noble personages of all his dominion. After this he landed, and ioining with Androgeus, came
into a vallie néere to Canturburie, and there incamped. Shortlie after came Cassibellane with
all his power of Britains, and gaue battell to the Romans. But after the Britains had long
fought and knightlie borne themselues in that battell, Androgeus came with his people on a
wing, and so sharplie assailed them, that the Britains were constrained to forsake the field,
and tooke themselues to flight. The which flight so discomforted them, that finallie they all
fled, and gaue place to the Romans, the which pursued and slue them without mercie, so that
Cassibellane with the residue of his people withdrew to a place of suertie, but being enuironed
about with the puissance of the Romans, and of Androgeus, who had with him seuen thousand men
there in the aid [Sidenote: So saith Campion, but Galfrid Monu. saith fiue thousand.] of the
Romans, Cassibellane in the end was forced to fall to a composition, in couenanting to paie
a yearelie tribute of thrée thousand pounds. When Cesar had ordered his businesse as he thought
conuenient, he returned and with him went Androgeus, fearing the displeasure of Cassibellane.

The reuerend father Bede writing of this matter, saith thus: After that Cesar being returned
into Gallia, had placed his souldiors abroad in the countrie to soiorne for the winter season,
he caused ships to be made readie, to the number of 600, with the which repassing into Britaine,
whilest he marched foorth with a mightie armie against the enimies, his ships that lay at anchor
being taken with a sore tempest, were either beaten one against another, or else cast vpon
the flats and sands, and so broken; so that fortie of them were vtterlie perished, and the
residue with great difficultie were repaired. The horssemen of the Romans at the first encounter
were put to the worsse, and Labienus the tribune slaine. In the second conflict he vanquished
the Britains, not without great danger of his people. After this, he marched to the riuer of
Thames, which as then was passable by foord onelie in one place and not else, as the report
goeth. On the further banke of that riuer, Cassibellane was incamped with an huge multitude
of enimies, and had pitcht and set the banke, and almost all the [Sidenote: The stakes remained
to be séene in Bedes daies.] foord vnder the water full of sharpe stakes, the tokens of which
vnto this day are to be séene, and it séemeth to the beholders that euerie of these stakes
are as big as a mans thigh, sticking fast in the bottome of the riuer closed with lead. This
being perceiued of the Romans, and auoided, the Britains not able to susteine the violent impression
of the Roman legions, hid themselues in the woods, out of the which by often issues, they gréeuouslie
and manie times assailed the Romans, and did them great damage. In the meane time the strong
citie of Troinouant with hir duke Androgeus deliuering fortie hostages, yéelded vnto Cesar,
whose example manie other cities following, allied themselues with the Romans, by whose information
Cesar with sore fight tooke at length the towne of Cassibellane, situat betwixt two marches,
fensed also with the couert of woods, & hauing within it great plentie of all things. After
this Cesar returned into France, and bestowed his armie in places to soiorne there for the
winter season.

The Scotish writers report, that the Britains, after the Romans were the first time repelled
(as before ye haue heard) refused to receiue the aid of the Scotish men the second time, and
so were vanquished, as in the Scotish historie ye may sée more at length expressed. Thus much
touching the war which Iulius Cesar made against the Britains, in bringing them vnder tribute
to the Romans. But this tributarie subiection was hardlie mainteined for a season.

¶ Now here is to be noted, that Cesar did not vanquish all the Britains: for he came not amongst
the northerne men, onlie discouering and subduing that part which lieth towards the French
seas: so that sith other of the Roman emperors did most earnestlie trauell to [Sidenote: Cornelius
Tacitus. In vit. Agr. Dion Cassius.] bring the Britains vnder their subiection (which were
euer redie to rebell so manie sundrie times) Cesar might séeme rather to haue shewed Britaine
to the Romans, than to haue deliuered the possession of the same. This subiection, to the which
he brought this Ile (what maner of one soeuer it was) chanced about the yeare of the world
3913, after the building of Rome 698, before the birth of our sauior 53, the first and second
yeare of the 181 Olympiad, after the comming of Brute 1060, before the conquest made by William
duke of Normandie 1120, and 1638 yeres before this present yere of our Lord 1585, after Harisons
account.

       *       *       *       *       *

The state of Britaine when Cæsar offered to conquer it, and the maner of their gouernement,
as diuerse authors report the same in their bookes: where the contrarietie of their opinions
is to be obserued.

THE XVIJ. CHAPTER.

After that Iulius Cesar had thus made the Britains tributaries to the Romans, and was returned
into Gallia, Cassibellane reigned 7 yeares, and was vanquished in the ninth or tenth yeare
after he began first to reigne so that he reigned in the whole about 15 or as some haue 17
yeares, and then died, leauing no issue behind him. There hath bin an [Sidenote: Fabian.] old
chronicle (as Fabian recordeth) which he saw and followeth much in his booke, wherein is conteined,
that this Cassibellane was not brother to Lud, but eldest sonne to him: for otherwise as may
be thought (saith he) Cesar hauing the vpper hand, would haue displaced him from the gouernement,
and set vp Androgeus the right heire to the crowne, as sonne to the said Lud. But whatsoeuer
our chronicles or the British histories report of this matter, it should appere by that which
Cesar writeth (as partlie ye haue heard) that Britaine in those [Sidenote: Cæsar.] daies was
not gouerned by one sole prince, but by diuers, and that diuers cities were estates of themselues,
so that the land was diuided into sundrie gouernements, much after the forme and maner as Germanie
and Italie are in our time, where some cities are gouerned by one onelie prince, some by the
nobilitie, and some by the people. And whereas diuers of the rulers in those daies here in
this land were called kings, those had more large seigniories than the other, as [Sidenote:
Cassibellane a King.] Cassibellane, who was therefore called a king.

And though we doo admit this to be true, yet may it be, that in the beginning, after Brute
entered the land, there was ordeined by him a monarchie, as before is mentioned, which might
continue in his posteritie manie yeares after, and yet at length before the comming of Cesar,
through ciuil dissention, might happilie be broken, and diuided into parts, and so remained
not onelie in the time of this Cassibellane, but also long after, whilest they liued as tributaries
to the Romans, till finallie they were subdued by the Saxons. In which meane time, through
the discord, negligence, or rather vnaduised rashnes of writers, hard it is to iudge what may
be affirmed and receiued in their writings for a truth; namelie, concerning the succession
of the kings that are said to haue reigned betwixt the daies of Cassibellane, and the comming
[Sidenote: Cor. Tacit. in uita. lib. Agr.] of the Saxons. The Roman writers (and namelie Tacitus)
report, that the Britains in times past were vnder the rule of kings, and after being made
tributaries, were drawne so by princes into sundrie factions, that to defend and kéepe off
a common ieopardie, scarselie would two or thrée cities agrée togither, and take weapon in
hand with one accord, so that while they fought by parts, the whole was ouercome. And after
this sort they say that Britaine was brought into the forme of a prouince by the Romans, from
whom gouernors vnder the name of legats and procurators were sent that had the rule of it.

But yet the same authors make mention of certeine kings (as hereafter shall appeare) who while
the Romane emperors had the most part of the earth in subiection, reigned in Britaine. The
same witnesseth [Sidenote: Gildas in epist.] Gildas, saieng: Britaine hath kings, but they
are tyrants: iudges it hath, but the same are wicked, oftentimes spoiling and tormenting the
innocent people. And Cesar (as ye haue heard) speaketh of foure kings that ruled in Kent, and
thereabouts. Cornelius Tacitus maketh mention [Sidenote: Some take Prasutagus and Aruiragus
to be one man.] of Prasutagus, and Cogidunus, that were kings in Britaine: and Iuuenal speaketh
of Aruiragus: and all the late writers, of Lucius. Hereby it appeareth, that whether one or
mo, yet kings there were in Britain, bearing rule vnder the Romane emperors.

[Sidenote: Gal. Mon.] On the other part, the common opinion of our chronicle-writers is, that
the chiefe gouernment remained euer with the Britains, & that the Romane senat receiuing a
yearelie tribute, sent at certeine times (Ex officio) their emperors and lieutenants into this
Ile, to represse the rebellious tumults therein begun, or to beat backe the inuasion of the
enimies that went about to inuade it. And thus would these writers inferre, that the Britains
euer obeied their king, till at length they were put beside the gouernement by the Saxons.
But whereas in the common historie of England, the succession of kings ought to be kept, so
oft as it chanceth in the same that there is not anie to fill the place, then one while the
Romane emperors are placed in their steads, and another while their lieutenants, and are said
to be created kings of the Britains, as though the emperors were inferiors vnto the kings of
Britaine, and that the Romane lieutenants at their appointments, and not by prescript of the
senat or emperours, administred the prouince.

This may suffice here to aduertise you of the contrarietie in writers. Now we will go foorth
in following our historie, as we haue doone heretofore, sauing that where the Romane histories
write of things done here by emperors, or their lieutenants, it shall be shewed as reason requireth,
sith there is a great appearance of truth oftentimes in the same, as those that be authorised
and allowed in the opinion of the learned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Theomantius, the tearme of yeares that he reigned, and where he was interred; of Kymbeline,
within the time of whose gouernment Christ Iesus our sauiour was borne, all nations content
to obeie the Romane emperors and consequentlie Britaine, the customes that the Britaines paie
the Romans as Strabo reporteth.

THE XVIIJ. CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: THEOM[=A]DEUS ] AFTER the death of Cassibellane, Theomantius or Tenantius the yoongest
sonne of Lud was made king of Britaine in the yéere of the [Sidenote: Fabian] world 3921, after
the building of Rome 706, & before the comming of Christ 45. He is named also in one of the
English chronicles Tormace: in the same chronicle it is conteined, that not he, but his [Sidenote:
Gal. Mon.] brother Androgeus was king, where Geffrey of Monmouth & others testifie, that Androgeus
abandoned the land clerelie, & continued still at Rome, because he knew the Britains hated
him for treason he had committed in aiding Iulius Cesar against Cassibellane. Theomantius ruled
the land in good quiet, and paid the tribute to the Romans which Cassibellane had granted,
and finallie departed this life after he had reigned 22 yeares, and was buried at London.

[Sidenote: KYMBELINE] Kymbeline or Cimbeline the sonne of Theomantius was of the Britains made
king after the deceasse of his father, in the yeare of the world 3944, after the building of
Rome 728, and before the [Sidenote: Fabian out of Guido de Columna.] birth of our Sauiour 33.
This man (as some write) was brought vp at Rome, and there made knight by Augustus Cesar, vnder
whome he serued in the warres, and was in such fauour with him, that he was at libertie to
pay his tribute or not. Little other mention is made of his dooings, except that during his
reigne, the Sauiour of the world [Sidenote: Christ our saviour borne.] our Lord Iesus Christ
the onelie sonne of God was borne of a virgine, about the 23 yeare of the reigne of this Kymbeline,
& in the 42 yeare of the emperour Octauius Augustus, that is to wit, in the yeare of [Sidenote:
3966.] the world 3966, in the second yeare of the 194 Olympiad, after the building of the citie
of Rome 750 nigh at an end, after the vniuersall floud 2311, from the birth of Abraham 2019,
after the departure of the Israelits out of Egypt 1513, after the captiuitie of Babylon 535,
from the building of the temple by Salomon 1034, & from the arriuall of Brute 1116, complet.
Touching the continuance of the yeares of Kymbelines reigne, some writers doo varie, but the
best approoued affirme, that he reigned 35 years and then died, & was buried at London, leauing
behind him two sonnes, Guiderius and Aruiragus.

¶ But here is to be noted, that although our histories doo affirme, that as well this Kymbeline,
as also his father Theomantius liued in quiet with the Romans, and continuallie to them paied
the tributes which the Britains had couenanted with Iulius Cesar to pay, yet we find in the
Romane writers, that after Iulius Cesars death, when [Sidenote: Cor. Tacitus. in uita lu. Agr.
Dion Cassius.] Augustus had taken vpon him the rule of the empire, the Britains refused to
paie that tribute: whereat as Cornelius Tacitus reporteth, Augustus (being otherwise occupied)
was contented to winke; howbeit, through earnest calling vpon to recouer his right by such
as were desirous to sée the vttermost of the British kingdome; at length, to wit, in the tenth
yeare after the death of Iulius Cesar, which was about the thirtéenth yeare of the said Theomantius,
Augustus made [Sidenote: Dion Cassius.] prouision to passe with an armie ouer into Britaine,
& was come forward vpon his iournie into Gallia Celtica: or as we maie saie, into these hither
parts of France.

But here receiuing aduertisements that the Pannonians, which inhabited the countrie now called
Hungarie, and the Dalmatians whome now we call Slauons had rebelled, he thought it best first
to subdue those rebells neere home, rather than to séeke new countries, and leaue such in hazard
whereof he had present possession, and so turning his power against the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
he left off for a time the warres of Britaine, whereby the land remained without feare of anie
inuasion to be made by the Romans, till the yeare after the building of the citie of Rome 725,
and about the 19 yeare of king Theomantius reigne, that Augustus with an armie departed once
againe from Rome to passe ouer into Britaine, there to make warre. But after his comming into
Gallia, when the Britains sent to him certeine ambassadours to treat with him of peace, he
staied there to settle the state of things among the Galles, for that they were not in verie
good order. And hauing finished there, he went into Spaine, and so his iournie into Britaine
was put off till the next yeare, that is, the 726 after the building of Rome, which fell before
the birth of our sauiour 25, about which time Augustus eftsoons meant the third time to haue
made a voiage into Britaine, because they could not agrée vpon couenants. But as the Pannonians
and Dalmatians had aforetime staied him, when [Sidenote: He kept not promise with the Romans.
Those of Calice and Biskaie.] (as before is said) he meant to haue gone against the Britans:
so euen now the Salassians (a people inhabiting about Italie and Switserland) the Cantabrians
and Asturians by such rebellious sturrs as they raised, withdrew him from his purposed iournie.
But whether this controuersie which appeareth to fall forth betwixt the Britains and Augustus,
was occasioned by Kymbeline, or some other prince of the Britains, I haue not to auouch: for
that by our writers it is reported, that Kymbeline being brought vp in Rome, & knighted in
the court of Augustus, euer shewed himselfe a friend to the Romans, & chieflie was loth to
breake with them, because the youth of the Britaine nation should not be depriued of the benefit
to be trained and brought vp among the Romans, whereby they might learne both to behaue themselues
like ciuill men, and to atteine to the knowledge of feats of warre.

But whether for this respect, or for that it pleased the almightie God so to dispose the minds
of men at that present, not onlie the Britains, but in manner all other nations were contented
to be obedient to the Romane empire. That this was true in the Britains, [Sidenote: Strab.
Geog.] it is euident enough by Strabos words, which are in effect as followeth. "At this present
(saith he) certeine princes of Britaine, procuring by ambassadors and dutifull demeanors the
amitie of the emperour Augustus, haue offered in the capitoll vnto the gods presents or gifts,
and haue ordeined the whole Ile in a manner to be appertinent, proper, and familiar to the
Romans. They are burdened with sore customs which they paie for wares, either to be sent foorth
into Gallia, or brought from thence, which are commonlie yuorie vessels, shéeres, ouches, or
earerings, and other conceits made of amber & glasses, and such like manner of merchandize:
so that now there is no néed of anie armie or garrison of men of warre to kéepe the Ile, for
there néedeth not past one legion of footmen, or some wing of horssemen, to gather vp and receiue
the tribute: for the charges are rated according to the quantitie of the tributes: for otherwise
it should be néedfull to abate the customs, if the tributes were also raised: and if anie violence
should be vsed, it were dangerous least they might be prouoked to rebellion." Thus farre Strabo.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Guiderius, who denied to paie tribute to the Romans, preparation for war on both sides,
of the ridiculous voiage of the Emperour Caligula against the Britains, his vanitie and delight
in mischiefe: Aulus Plautius a Romane senator accompanied with souldiers arrive on the British
coasts without resistance, the Britains take flight and hide themselues.

THE XIX. CHAPTER.

[Sidenote: GUIDERIUS.] Guiderius the first sonne of Kymbeline (of whom Harison saieth nothing)
began his reigne in the seuententh yeere after th' incarnation of Christ. This Guiderius being
a man of stout courage, gaue occasion of breach of peace betwixt the Britains and Romans, denieng
to paie them tribute, and procuring the people to new insurrections, which by one meane or
other made open rebellion, as [Sidenote: Caligula.] Gyldas saith. Wherevpon the emperour Caligula
(as some thinke) tooke occasion to leauie a power, and as one vtterlie misliking the negligence
(as he called it) of Augustus and Tiberius his predecessors, he ment not onlie to reduce the
Iland vnto the former subiection, but also to search out the vttermost bounds thereof, to the
behoofe of himselfe, and of the Romane monarchie.

Great prouision therefore was made by the said Caligula to performe that noble enterprise,
and this was in the fourth yeere of his reigne. The like preparation was made on the other
side by Guiderius, to resist the forren enimies, so that hauing all things in a readinesse,
he ceassed not dailie to looke for the comming of the emperour, whome [Sidenote: Dion Cassius.
lib. 59.] he ment to receiue with hard enterteinment if he durst aduenture to set toward Britaine.
But see the sequele: the maine armie being thus in a readinesse, departed from Rome in the
79 yeere after the building of the citie, and marching foorth, at length came vnto the Belgike
shore, from whence they might looke ouer, and behold the cliffes and coast of Britaine, which
Caligula and his men stood gazing vpon with great admiration and woonder.

Furthermore he caused them to stand in battell arraie vpon the coast, where he heard how the
Britains were in a redinesse to withstand his entrance. But entring into his gallie, as nothing
discouraged with these newes, he rowed a flight shot or two from the shore, and forthwith returned,
and then going vp into an high place like a pulpit, framed and set vp there for the nonce,
he gaue the token to fight vnto his souldiers by sound of trumpet, and therewith was ech man
charged to gather cockle shells vpon the shore, which he called [Sidenote: The spoile of the
Ocean.] the spoile of the Ocean, and caused them to be laid vp vntill a time conuenient. With
the atchiuing of this exploit (as hauing none other wherewith to beautifie his triumph) he
séemed greatlie exalted, thinking that now he had subdued the whole Ocean, and therefore highlie
rewarded his souldiers for their paines susteined in that collection of cockle shells, as if
they had doone him some notable péece of seruice. He also caried of the same shells with him
to Rome, to the end he might there boast of his voyage, and brag how well he [Sidenote: * sic.]
had sped: and required therefore verie earnestlie haue of * a triumph decreed vnto him for
the accomplishment of this enterprise.

But when he saw the senat grudge at the free & liberall granting of a grace in that behalfe,
and perceiued how they refused to attribute diuine honors vnto him, in recompense of so foolish
an enterprise, it wanted little that he had not slaine them euerie one. From thence therefore
he went vp into a throne or royall seate, and calling therewith the common people about him,
he told them a long tale what aduentures had chanced to him in his conquest of the Ocean. And
when he had perceiued them to shout and crie, as if they had consented that he should haue
béene a god for this his great trauell and valiant prowesse, he to increase their clamour,
caused great quantities of gold & siluer to be scattered amongst them, in the gathering whereof,
manie were pressed to death, and diuers also slaine with the inuenomed caltrops of iron, which
he did cast out with the same monie, of purpose to doo mischiefe, the same caltrops being in
forme small & sharp, so that by reason of the prease of people, much hurt was doone by them
yer they were perceiued. And this was the end of the ridiculous voiage of Caligula attempted
against the Britains.

[Sidenote: Suetonius.] But after the death of this Caligula, the emperour Claudius (as Suetonius
saith) moued warre against the Britains, because of a sturre and rebellion raised in that land,
for that such fugitiues as were fled from thence, were not againe restored when request was
made for the same.

[Sidenote: Dion Cassius.] Dion Cassius writeth, that one Bericus, being expelled out of Britaine,
persuaded the emperour Claudius to take the warre in hand at this time against the Britains,
so that one Aulus Plautius a senatour, and as then pretor, was appointed to take the armie
that soiourned in France then called Gallia, and to passe ouer with the same into Britaine.
The souldiers hearing of this voiage, were loth to go with him, as men not willing to make
warre in another world: and therefore delaied time, till at length one Narcissus was sent from
Claudius, as it were to appease the souldiers, & procure them to set forward. But when this
Narcissus went vp into the tribunall throne of Plautius, to declare the cause of his comming,
the souldiers taking great indignation therewith cried, O Saturnalia, as if they should haue
celebrated their feast daie so called.

When the seruants apparelled in their maisters robes, represented the roome of their maisters,
and were serued by them, as if they had béene their seruants, and thus at length constreined,
through verie shame, they agréed to follow Plautius. Herevpon being embarked, he diuided his
nauie into thrée parts, to the end that if they were kept off from arriuing in one place, yet
they might take land in another. The ships suffered some impeachment in their passage by a
contrarie wind that droue them backe againe: but yet the marriners and men of warre taking
good courage vnto them, the rather because there was séene a fierie leame to shoot out of the
east towards the west, which way their course lay, made forwards againe with their ships, and
landed without finding anie resistance. For the Britains looked not for their comming: wherefore,
when they heard how their enimies were on land, they got them into the woods and marishes,
trusting that by lingering of time the Romans would be constreined to depart, as it had chanced
in time past to Iulius Cesar aforesaid.

THE END OF THE THIRD BOOKE.

