FLOWERS AND FLOWER-GARDENS.

BY

DAVID LESTER RICHARDSON,

PRINCIPAL OF THE HINDU METROPOLITAN COLLEGE, AND AUTHOR OF "LITERARY LEAVES," "LITERARY RECREATIONS,"
&C.

WITH AN APPENDIX OF

PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS AND USEFUL INFORMATION RESPECTING THE ANGLO-INDIAN FLOWER-GARDEN.

CALCUTTA:

MDCCCLV.

PREFACE.

    In every work regard the writer's end,
    Since none can compass more than they intend.

Pope.

This volume is far indeed from being a scientific treatise On Flowers and Flower-Gardens:--it
is mere gossip in print upon a pleasant subject. But I hope it will not be altogether useless.
If I succeed in my object I shall consider that I have gossipped to some purpose. On several
points--such as that of the mythology and language of flowers--I have said a good deal more
than I should have done had I been writing for a different community. I beg the London critics
to bear this in mind. I wished to make the subject as attractive as possible to some classes
of people here who might not have been disposed to pay any attention to it whatever if I had
not studied their amusement as much as their instruction. I have tried to sweeten the edge
of the cup.

I did not at first intend the book to exceed fifty pages: but I was almost insensibly carried
on further and further from the proposed limit by the attractive nature of the materials that
pressed upon my notice. As by far the largest portion, of it has been written hurriedly, amidst
other avocations, and bit by bit; just as the Press demanded an additional supply of "copy,"
I have but too much reason to apprehend that it will seem to many of my readers, fragmentary
and ill-connected. Then again, in a city like Calcutta, it is not easy to prepare any thing
satisfactorily that demands much literary or scientific research. There are very many volumes
in all the London Catalogues, but not immediately obtainable in Calcutta, that I should have
been most eager to refer to for interesting and valuable information, if they had been at hand.
The mere titles of these books have often tantalized me with visions of riches beyond my reach.
I might indeed have sent for some of these from England, but I had announced this volume, and
commenced the printing of it, before it occurred to me that it would be advisable to extend
the matter beyond the limits I had originally contemplated. I must now send it forth, "with
all its imperfections on its head;" but not without the hope that in spite of these, it will
be found calculated to increase the taste amongst my brother exiles here for flowers and flower-gardens,
and lead many of my Native friends--(particularly those who have been educated at the Government
Colleges,--who have imbibed some English thoughts and feelings--and who are so fortunate as
to be in possession of landed property)--to improve their parterres,--and set an example to
their poorer countrymen of that neatness and care and cleanliness and order which may make
even the peasant's cottage and the smallest plot of ground assume an aspect of comfort, and
afford a favorable indication of the character of the possessor.

D.L.R.

Calcutta, September 21st 1855.

ERRATA.

A friend tells me that the allusion to the Acanthus on the first page of this book is obscurely
expressed, that it was not the root but the leaves of the plant that suggested the idea of
the Corinthian capital. The root of the Acanthus produced the leaves which overhanging the
sides of the basket struck the fancy of the Architect. This was, indeed, what I meant to say,
and though I have not very lucidly expressed myself, I still think that some readers might
have understood me rightly even without the aid of this explanation, which, however, it is
as well for me to give, as I wish to be intelligible to all. A writer should endeavor to make
it impossible for any one to misapprehend his meaning, though there are some writers of high
name both in England and America who seem to delight in puzzling their readers.

At the bottom of page 200, allusion is made to the dotted lines at some of the open turns in
the engraved labyrinth. By some accident or mistake the dots have been omitted, but any one
can understand where the stop hedges which the dotted lines indicated might be placed so as
to give the wanderer in the maze, additional trouble to find his way out of it.

The Song of Solomon.

Milton.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Soft roll your incense, herbs and fruits and flowers,
    In mingled clouds to HIM whose sun exalts
    Whose breath perfumes you, and whose pencil paints.

Thomson.

A taste for floriculture is spreading amongst Anglo-Indians. It is a good sign. It would be
gratifying to learn that the same refining taste had reached the Natives also--even the lower
classes of them. It is a cheap enjoyment. A mere palm of ground may be glorified by a few radiant
blossoms. A single clay jar of the rudest form may be so enriched and beautified with leaves
and blossoms as to fascinate the eye of taste. An old basket, with a broken tile at the top
of it, and the root of the acanthus within, produced an effect which seemed to Calimachus,
the architect, "the work of the Graces." It suggested the idea of the capital of the Corinthian
column, the most elegant architectural ornament that Art has yet conceived.

Flowers are the poor man's luxury; a refinement for the uneducated. It has been prettily said
that the melody of birds is the poor man's music, and that flowers are the poor man's poetry.
They are "a discipline of humanity," and may sometimes ameliorate even a coarse and vulgar
nature, just as the cherub faces of innocent and happy children are sometimes found to soften
and purify the corrupted heart. It would be a delightful thing to see the swarthy cottagers
of India throwing a cheerful grace on their humble sheds and small plots of ground with those
natural embellishments which no productions of human skill can rival.

The peasant who is fond of flowers--if he begin with but a dozen little pots of geraniums and
double daisies upon his window sills, or with a honeysuckle over his humble porch--gradually
acquires a habit, not only of decorating the outside of his dwelling and of cultivating with
care his small plot of ground, but of setting his house in order within, and making every thing
around him agreeable to the eye. A love of cleanliness and neatness and simple ornament is
a moral feeling. The country laborer, or the industrious mechanic, who has a little garden
to be proud of, the work of his own hand, becomes attached to his place of residence, and is
perhaps not only a better subject on that account, but a better neighbour--a better man. A
taste for flowers is, at all events, infinitely preferable to a taste for the excitements of
the pot-house or the tavern or the turf or the gaming table, or even the festal board, especially
for people of feeble health--and above all, for the poor--who should endeavor to satisfy themselves
with inexpensive pleasures.[001]

In all countries, civilized or savage, and on all occasions, whether of grief or rejoicing,
a natural fondness for flowers has been exhibited, with more or less tenderness or enthusiasm.
They beautify religious rites. They are national emblems: they find a place in the blazonry
of heraldic devices. They are the gifts and the language of friendship and of love.

Flowers gleam in original hues from graceful vases in almost every domicile where Taste presides;
and the hand of "nice Art" charms us with "counterfeit presentments" of their forms and colors,
not only on the living canvas, but even on our domestic China-ware, and our mahogany furniture,
and our wall-papers and hangings and carpets, and on our richest apparel for holiday occasions
and our simplest garments for daily wear. Even human Beauty, the Queen of all loveliness on
earth, engages Flora as her handmaid at the toilet, in spite of the dictum of the poet of 'The
Seasons,' that "Beauty when unadorned is adorned the most."

Flowers are hung in graceful festoons both in churches and in ball-rooms. They decorate the
altar, the bride-bed, the cradle, and the bier. They grace festivals, and triumphs, and processions;
and cast a glory on gala days; and are amongst the last sad honors we pay to the objects of
our love.

I remember the death of a sweet little English girl of but a year old, over whom, in her small
coffin, a young and lovely mother sprinkled the freshest and fairest flowers. The task seemed
to soften--perhaps to sweeten--her maternal grief. I shall never forget the sight. The bright-hued
blossoms seemed to make her oblivious for a moment of the darkness and corruption to which
she was so soon to consign her priceless treasure. The child's sweet face, even in death, reminded
me that the flowers of the field and garden, however lovely, are all outshone by human beauty.
What floral glory of the wild-wood, or what queen of the parterre, in all the pride of bloom,
laughing in the sun-light or dancing in the breeze, hath a charm that could vie for a single
moment with the soft and holy lustre of that motionless and faded human lily? I never more
deeply felt the force of Milton's noble phrase "the human face divine" than when gazing on
that sleeping child. The fixed placid smile, the smoothly closed eye with its transparent lid,
the air of profound tranquillity, the simple purity (elevated into an aspect of bright intelligence,
as if the little cherub already experienced the beatitude of another and a better world,) were
perfectly angelic--and mocked all attempt at description. "Of such is the Kingdom of Heaven!"

O flower of an earthly spring! destined to blossom in the eternal summer of another and more
genial region! Loveliest of lovely children--loveliest to the last! More beautiful in death
than aught still living! Thou seemest now to all who miss and mourn thee but a sweet name--a
fair vision--a precious memory;--but in reality thou art a more truly living thing than thou
wert before or than aught thou hast left behind. Thou hast come early into a rich inheritance.
Thou hast now a substantial existence, a genuine glory, an everlasting possession, beyond the
sky. Thou hast exchanged the frail flowers that decked thy bier for amaranthine hues and fragrance,
and the brief and uncertain delights of mortal being for the eternal and perfect felicity of
angels!

I never behold elsewhere any of the specimens of the several varieties of flowers which the
afflicted parent consigned to the hallowed little coffin without recalling to memory the sainted
child taking her last rest on earth. The mother was a woman of taste and sensibility, of high
mind and gentle heart, with the liveliest sense of the loveliness of all lovely things; and
it is hardly necessary to remind the reader how much refinement such as hers may sometimes
alleviate the severity of sorrow.

But might we not with equal justice say that every thing excellent and beautiful and precious
has named itself a flower?

If stars teach as well as shine--so do flowers. In "still small accents" they charm "the nice
and delicate ear of thought" and sweetly whisper that "the hand that made them is divine."

The stars are the poetry of heaven--the clouds are the poetry of the middle sky--the flowers
are the poetry of the earth. The last is the loveliest to the eye and the nearest to the heart.
It is incomparably the sweetest external poetry that Nature provides for man. Its attractions
are the most popular; its language is the most intelligible. It is of all others the best adapted
to every variety and degree of mind. It is the most endearing, the most familiar, the most
homefelt, and congenial. The stars are for the meditation of poets and philosophers; but flowers
are not exclusively for the gifted or the scientific; they are the property of all. They address
themselves to our common nature. They are equally the delight of the innocent little prattler
and the thoughtful sage. Even the rude unlettered rustic betrays some feeling for the beautiful
in the presence of the lovely little community of the field and garden. He has no sympathy
for the stars: they are too mystical and remote. But the flowers as they blush and smile beneath
his eye may stir the often deeply hidden lovingness and gentleness of his nature. They have
a social and domestic aspect to which no one with a human heart can be quite indifferent. Few
can doat upon the distant flowers of the sky as many of us doat upon the flowers at our feet.
The stars are wholly independent of man: not so the sweet children of Flora. We tend upon and
cherish them with a parental pride. They seem especially meant for man and man for them. They
often need his kindest nursing. We place them with guardian hand in the brightest light and
the most wholesome air. We quench with liquid life their sun-raised thirst, or shelter them
from the wintry blast, or prepare and enrich their nutritious beds. As they pine or prosper
they agitate us with tender anxieties, or thrill us with exultation and delight. In the little
plot of ground that fronts an English cottage the flowers are like members of the household.
They are of the same family. They are almost as lovely as the children that play with them--though
their happy human associates may be amongst

    The sweetest things that ever grew
    Beside a human door.

The Greeks called flowers the Festival of the eye: and so they are: but they are something
else, and something better.

    A flower is not a flower alone,
    A thousand sanctities invest it.

Flowers not only touch the heart; they also elevate the soul. They bind us not entirely to
earth; though they make earth delightful. They attract our thoughts downward to the richly
embroidered ground only to raise them up again to heaven. If the stars are the scriptures of
the sky, the flowers are the scriptures of the earth. If the stars are a more glorious revelation
of the Creator's majesty and might, the flowers are at least as sweet a revelation of his gentler
attributes. It has been observed that

    An undevout astronomer is mad.

The same thing may be said of an irreverent floriculturist, and with equal truth--perhaps indeed
with greater. For the astronomer, in some cases, may be hard and cold, from indulging in habits
of thought too exclusively mathematical. But the true lover of flowers has always something
gentle and genial in his nature. He never looks upon his floral-family without a sweetened
smile upon his face and a softened feeling in his heart; unless his temperament be strangely
changed and his mind disordered. The poets, who, speaking generally, are constitutionally religious,
are always delighted readers of the flower-illumined pages of the book of nature. One of these
disciples of Flora earnestly exclaims:

    Were I, O God, in churchless lands remaining
    Far from all voice of teachers and divines,
    My soul would find in flowers of thy ordaining
        Priests, sermons, shrines

The popular little preachers of the field and garden, with their lovely faces, and angelic
language--sending the while such ambrosial incense up to heaven--insinuate the sweetest truths
into the human heart. They lead us to the delightful conclusion that beauty is in the list
of the utilities--that the Divine Artist himself is a lover of loveliness--that he has communicated
a taste for it to his creatures and most lavishly provided for its gratification.

          Not a flower
    But shows some touch, in freckle, streak or stain,
    Of His unrivalled pencil. He inspires
    Their balmy odours, and imparts then hues,
    And bathes their eyes with nectar, and includes
    In grains as countless as the sea side sands
    The forms with which he sprinkles all the earth.

Cowper.

In the eye of Utilitarianism the flowers are but idle shows. God might indeed have made this
world as plain as a Quaker's garment, without retrenching one actual necessary of physical
existence; but He has chosen otherwise; and no earthly potentate was ever so richly clad as
his mother earth. "Behold the lilies of the field, they spin not, neither do they toil, yet
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these!" We are thus instructed that man
was not meant to live by bread alone, and that the gratification of a sense of beauty is equally
innocent and natural and refining. The rose is permitted to spread its sweet leaves to the
air and dedicate its beauty to the sun, in a way that is quite perplexing to bigots and stoics
and political economists. Yet God has made nothing in vain! The Great Artist of the Universe
must have scattered his living hues and his forms of grace over the surface of the earth for
some especial and worthy purpose. When Voltaire was congratulated on the rapid growth of his
plants, he observed that "they had nothing else to do." Oh, yes--they had something else to
do,--they had to adorn the earth, and to charm the human eye, and through the eye to soften
and cheer the heart and elevate the soul!

I have often wished that Lecturers on Botany, instead of confining their instructions to the
mere physiology, or anatomy, or classification or nomenclature of their favorite science, would
go more into the poetry of it, and teach young people to appreciate the moral influences of
the floral tribes--to draw honey for the human heart from the sweet breasts of flowers--to
sip from their radiant chalices a delicious medicine for the soul.

Flowers are frequently hallowed by associations far sweeter than their sweetest perfume. "I
am no botanist:" says Southey in a letter to Walter Savage Landor, "but like you, my earliest
and best recollections are connected with flowers, and they always carry me back to other days.
Perhaps this is because they are the only things which affect our senses precisely as they
did in our childhood. The sweetness of the violet is always the same; and when you rifle a
rose and drink, as it were, its fragrance, the refreshment is the same to the old man as to
the boy. Sounds recal the past in the same manner, but they do not bring with them individual
scenes like the cowslip field, or the corner of the garden to which we have transplanted field-flowers."

We must not interpret the epithet wiser too literally. Perhaps the poet speaks ironically,
or means by some other wiser man, one allied in character and temperament to a modern utilitarian
Philosopher.

Thomas Campbell, with a poet's natural gallantry, has exclaimed,

    Without the smile from partial Beauty won,
    Oh! what were man?--a world without a sun!

Let a similar compliment be presented to the "painted populace that dwell in fields and lead
ambrosial lives." What a desert were this scene without its flowers--it would be like the sky
of night without its stars! "The disenchanted earth" would "lose her lustre." Stars of the
day! Beautifiers of the world! Ministrants of delight! Inspirers of kindly emotions and the
holiest meditations! Sweet teachers of the serenest wisdom! So beautiful and bright, and graceful,
and fragrant--it is no marvel that ye are equally the favorites of the rich and the poor, of
the young and the old, of the playful and the pensive!

Our country, though originally but sparingly endowed with the living jewelry of nature, is
now rich in the choicest flowers of all other countries.

          Foreigners of many lands,
    They form one social shade, as if convened
    By magic summons of the Orphean lyre.

Cowper.

These little "foreigners of many lands" have been so skilfully acclimatized and multiplied
and rendered common, that for a few shillings an English peasant may have a parterre more magnificent
than any ever gazed upon by the Median Queen in the hanging gardens of Babylon. There is no
reason, indeed, to suppose that even the first parents of mankind looked on finer flowers in
Paradise itself than are to be found in the cottage gardens that are so thickly distributed
over the hills and plains and vallies of our native land.

    The red rose, is the red rose still, and from the lily's cup
    An odor fragrant as at first, like frankincense goes up.

Mary Howitt.

Our neat little gardens and white cottages give to dear old England that lovely and cheerful
aspect, which is so striking and attractive to her foreign visitors. These beautiful signs
of a happy political security and individual independence and domestic peace and a love of
order and a homely refinement, are scattered all over the land, from sea to sea. When Miss
Sedgwick, the American authoress, visited England, nothing so much surprised and delighted
her as the gay flower-filled gardens of our cottagers. Many other travellers, from almost all
parts of the world, have experienced and expressed the same sensations on visiting our shores,
and it would be easy to compile a voluminous collection of their published tributes of admiration.
To a foreign visitor the whole country seems a garden--in the words of Shakespeare--"a sea-walled
garden."

In the year 1843, on a temporary return to England after a long Indian exile, I travelled by
railway for the first time in my life. As I glided on, as smoothly as in a sledge, over the
level iron road, with such magical rapidity--from the pretty and cheerful town of Southampton
to the greatest city of the civilized world--every thing was new to me, and I gave way to child-like
wonder and child-like exultation.[002] What a quick succession of lovely landscapes greeted
the eye on either side? What a garden-like air of universal cultivation! What beautiful smooth
slopes! What green, quiet meadows! What rich round trees, brooding over their silent shadows!
What exquisite dark nooks and romantic lanes! What an aspect of unpretending happiness in the
clean cottages, with their little trim gardens! What tranquil grandeur and rural luxury in
the noble mansions and glorious parks of the British aristocracy! How the love of nature thrilled
my heart with a gentle and delicious agitation, and how proud I felt of my dear native land!
It is, indeed, a fine thing to be an Englishman. Whether at home or abroad, he is made conscious
of the claims of his country to respect and admiration. As I fed my eyes on the loveliness
of Nature, or turned to the miracles of Art and Science on every hand, I had always in my mind
a secret reference to the effect which a visit to England must produce upon an intelligent
and observant foreigner.

    Heavens! what a goodly prospect spreads around
    Of hills and dales and woods and lawns and spires,
    And glittering towns and gilded streams, 'till all
    The stretching landscape into smoke decays!
    Happy Brittannia! where the Queen of Arts,
    Inspiring vigor, Liberty, abroad
    Walks unconfined, even to thy farthest cots,
    And scatters plenty with unsparing hand.

Thomson.

And here let me put in a word in favor of the much-abused English climate. I cannot echo the
unpatriotic discontent of Byron when he speaks of

                    The cold and cloudy clime
    Where he was born, but where he would not die.

Rather let me say with the author of "The Seasons," in his address to England.

    Rich is thy soil and merciful thy clime.

King Charles the Second when he heard some foreigners condemning our climate and exulting in
their own, observed that in his opinion that was the best climate in which a man could be out
in the open air with pleasure, or at least without trouble and inconvenience, the most days
of the year and the most hours of the day; and this he held was the case with the climate of
England more than that of any other country in Europe. To say nothing of the lovely and noble
specimens of human nature to which it seems so congenial, I may safely assert that it is peculiarly
favorable, with, rare exceptions, to the sweet children of Flora. There is no country in the
world in which there are at this day such innumerable tribes of flowers. There are in England
two thousand varieties of the rose alone, and I venture to express a doubt whether the richest
gardens of Persia or Cashmere could produce finer specimens of that universal favorite than
are to be found in some of the small but highly cultivated enclosures of respectable English
rustics.

The actual beauty of some of the commonest flowers in our gardens can be in no degree exaggerated--even
in the daydreams of the most inspired poet. And when the author of Lalla Rookh talks so musically
and pleasantly of the fragrant bowers of Amberabad, the country of Delight, a Province in Jinnistan
or Fairy Land, he is only thinking of the shrubberies and flower-beds at Sloperton Cottage,
and the green hills and vales of Wiltshire.

Sir William Temple observes that "besides the temper of our climate there are two things particular
to us, that contribute much to the beauty and elegance of our gardens--which are, the gravel
of our walks and the fineness and almost perpetual greenness of our turf." Meyer, a German,
a scientific practical gardener, who was also a writer on gardening, and had studied his art
in the Royal Gardens at Paris, and afterwards visited England, was a great admirer of English
Gardens, but despaired of introducing our style of gardening into Germany, chiefly on account
of its inferior turf for lawns. "Lawns and gravel walks," says a writer in the Quarterly Review,
"are the pride of English Gardens," "The smoothness and verdure of our lawns," continues the
same writer, "is the first thing in our gardens that catches the eye of a foreigner; the next
is the fineness and firmness of our gravel walks." Mr. Charles Mackintosh makes the same observation.
"In no other country in the world," he says, "do such things exist." Mrs. Stowe, whose Uncle
Tom has done such service to the cause of liberty in America, on her visit to England seems
to have been quite as much enchanted with our scenery, as was her countrywoman, Miss Sedgwick.
I am pleased to find Mrs. Stowe recognize the superiority of English landscape-gardening and
of our English verdure. This is literally true: any sight more inexpressibly exquisite than
that of an English lawn in fine order is what I am quite unable to conceive.[003]

I recollect that in one of my visits to England, (in 1827) I attempted to describe the scenery
of India to William Hazlitt--not the living son but the dead father. Would that he were still
in the land of the living by the side of his friend Leigh Hunt, who has been pensioned by the
Government for his support of that cause for which they were both so bitterly persecuted by
the ruling powers in days gone by. I flattered myself into the belief that Hazlitt was interested
in some of my descriptions of Oriental scenes. What moved him most was an account of the dry,
dusty, burning, grassless plains of Bundelcund in the hot season. I told him how once while
gasping for breath in a hot verandah and leaning over the rails I looked down upon the sun-baked
ground.

    "A change came o'er the spirit of my dream."

I suddenly beheld with all the distinctness of reality the rich, cool, green, unrivalled meads
of England. But the vision soon melted away, and I was again in exile. I wept like a child.
It was like a beautiful mirage of the desert, or one of those waking dreams of home which have
sometimes driven the long-voyaging seaman to distraction and urged him by an irresistible impulse
to plunge headlong into the ocean.

When I had once more crossed the wide Atlantic--and (not by the necromancy of imagination but
by a longer and more tedious transit) found myself in an English meadow,--I exclaimed with
the poet,

                                Thou art free
    My country! and 'tis joy enough and pride
    For one hour's perfect bliss, to tread the grass
    Of England once again.

I felt my childhood for a time renewed, and was by no means disposed to second the assertion that

    "Nothing can bring back the hour
    Of splendour in the grass, of glory in the flower."

I have never beheld any thing more lovely than scenery characteristically English; and Goldsmith,
who was something of a traveller, and had gazed on several beautiful countries, was justified
in speaking with such affectionate admiration of our still more beautiful England,

    Where lawns extend that scorn Arcadian pride.

It is impossible to put into any form of words the faintest representation of that delightful
summer feeling which, is excited in fine weather by the sight of the mossy turf of our country.
It is sweet indeed to go,

    Musing through the lawny vale:

alluded to by Warton, or over Milton's "level downs," or to climb up Thomson's

                            Stupendous rocks
    That from the sun-redoubling valley lift
    Cool to the middle air their lawny tops.

It gives the Anglo-Indian Exile the heart-ache to think of these ramblings over English scenes.

ENGLAND.

    Bengala's plains are richly green,
    Her azure skies of dazzling sheen,
    Her rivers vast, her forests grand.
    Her bowers brilliant,--but the land,
    Though dear to countless eyes it be,
    And fair to mine, hath not for me
    The charm ineffable of home;
    For still I yearn to see the foam
    Of wild waves on thy pebbled shore,
    Dear Albion! to ascend once more
     Thy snow-white cliffs; to hear again
    The murmur of thy circling main--
    To stroll down each romantic dale
    Beloved in boyhood--to inhale
    Fresh life on green and breezy hills--
    To trace the coy retreating rills--
    To see the clouds at summer-tide
    Dappling all the landscape wide--
    To mark the varying gloom and glow
    As the seasons come and go--
    Again the green meads to behold
    Thick strewn with silvery gems and gold,
    Where kine, bright-spotted, large, and sleek,
    Browse silently, with aspect meek,
    Or motionless, in shallow stream
    Stand mirror'd, till their twin shapes seem,
    Feet linked to feet, forbid to sever,
    By some strange magic fixed for ever.

    And oh! once more I fain would see
    (Here never seen) a poor man free,[004]
    And valuing more an humble name,
    But stainless, than a guilty fame,
    How sacred is the simplest cot,
    Where Freedom dwells!--where she is not
    How mean the palace! Where's the spot
    She loveth more than thy small isle,
    Queen of the sea? Where hath her smile
    So stirred man's inmost nature? Where
    Are courage firm, and virtue fair,
    And manly pride, so often found
    As in rude huts on English ground,
    Where e'en the serf who slaves for hire
    May kindle with a freeman's fire?

    How proud a sight to English eyes
    Are England's village families!
    The patriarch, with his silver hair,
    The matron grave, the maiden fair.
    The rose-cheeked boy, the sturdy lad,
    On Sabbath day all neatly clad:--
    Methinks I see them wend their way
    On some refulgent morn of May,
    By hedgerows trim, of fragrance rare,
    Towards the hallowed House of Prayer!

    I can love all lovely lands,
    But England most; for she commands.
    As if she bore a parent's part,
    The dearest movements of my heart;
    And here I may not breathe her name.
    Without a thrill through all my frame.

    Never shall this heart be cold
    To thee, my country! till the mould
    (Or thine or this) be o'er it spread.
    And form its dark and silent bed.
    I never think of bliss below
    But thy sweet hills their green heads show,
    Of love and beauty never dream.
    But English faces round me gleam!

D.L.R.

I have often observed that children never wear a more charming aspect than when playing in
fields and gardens. In another volume I have recorded some of my impressions respecting the
prominent interest excited by these little flowers of humanity in an English landscape.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RETURN TO ENGLAND.

When I re-visited my dear native country, after an absence of many weary years, and a long
dull voyage, my heart was filled with unutterable delight and admiration. The land seemed a
perfect paradise. It was in the spring of the year. The blue vault of heaven--the clear atmosphere--the
balmy vernal breeze--the quiet and picturesque cattle, browsing on luxuriant verdure, or standing
knee deep in a crystal lake--the hills sprinkled with snow-white sheep and sometimes partially
shadowed by a wandering cloud--the meadows glowing with golden butter-cups and be-dropped with
daisies--the trim hedges of crisp and sparkling holly--the sound of near but unseen rivulets,
and the songs of foliage-hidden birds--the white cottages almost buried amidst trees, like
happy human nests--the ivy-covered church, with its old grey spire "pointing up to heaven,"
and its gilded vane gleaming in the light--the sturdy peasants with their instruments of healthy
toil--the white-capped matrons bleaching their newly-washed garments in the sun, and throwing
them like snow-patches on green slopes, or glossy garden shrubs--the sun-browned village girls,
resting idly on their round elbows at small open casements, their faces in sweet keeping with
the trellised flowers:--all formed a combination of enchantments that would mock the happiest
imitative efforts of human art. But though the bare enumeration of the details of this English
picture, will, perhaps, awaken many dear recollections in the reader's mind, I have omitted
by far the most interesting feature of the whole scene--the rosy children, loitering about
the cottage gates, or tumbling gaily on the warm grass.[005][006]

Two scraps of verse of a similar tendency shall follow this prose description:--

AN ENGLISH LANDSCAPE.

    I stood, upon an English hill,
    And saw the far meandering rill,
    A vein of liquid silver, run
    Sparkling in the summer sun;
    While adown that green hill's side,
    And along the valley wide,
    Sheep, like small clouds touched with light,
    Or like little breakers bright,
    Sprinkled o'er a smiling sea,
    Seemed to float at liberty.

    Scattered all around were seen,
    White cots on the meadows green.
    Open to the sky and breeze,
    Or peeping through the sheltering trees,
    On a light gate, loosely hung,
    Laughing children gaily swung;
    Oft their glad shouts, shrill and clear,
    Came upon the startled ear.
    Blended with the tremulous bleat,
    Of truant lambs, or voices sweet,
    Of birds, that take us by surprise,
    And mock the quickly-searching eyes.

    Nearer sat a fair-haired boy,
    Whistling with a thoughtless joy;
    A shepherd's crook was in his hand,
    Emblem of a mild command;
    And upon his rounded cheek
    Were hues that ripened apples streak.
    Disease, nor pain, nor sorrowing,
    Touched that small Arcadian king;
    His sinless subjects wandered free--
    Confusion without anarchy.
    Happier he upon his throne.
    The breezy hill--though all alone--
    Than the grandest monarchs proud
    Who mistrust the kneeling crowd.

    On a gently rising ground,
    The lovely valley's farthest bound,
    Bordered by an ancient wood,
    The cots in thicker clusters stood;
    And a church, uprose between,
    Hallowing the peaceful scene.
    Distance o'er its old walls threw
    A soft and dim cerulean hue,
    While the sun-lit gilded spire
    Gleamed as with celestial fire!

    I have crossed the ocean wave,
    Haply for a foreign grave;
    Haply never more to look
    On a British hill or brook;
    Haply never more to hear
    Sounds unto my childhood dear;
    Yet if sometimes on my soul
    Bitter thoughts beyond controul
    Throw a shade more dark than night,
    Soon upon the mental sight
    Flashes forth a pleasant ray
    Brighter, holier than the day;
    And unto that happy mood
    All seems beautiful and good.

D.L.R.

LINES TO A LADY,

WHO PRESENTED THE AUTHOR WITH SOME ENGLISH FRUITS AND FLOWERS.

    Green herbs and gushing springs in some hot waste
    Though, grateful to the traveller's sight and taste,
    Seem far less sweet and fair than fruits and flowers
    That breathe, in foreign lands, of English bowers.

    Thy gracious gift, dear lady, well recalls
    Sweet scenes of home,--the white cot's trellised walls--
    The trim red garden path--the rustic seat--
    The jasmine-covered arbour, fit retreat
    For hearts that love repose. Each spot displays
    Some long-remembered charm. In sweet amaze
    I feel as one who from a weary dream
    Of exile wakes, and sees the morning beam
    Illume the glorious clouds of every hue
    That float o'er scenes his happy childhood knew.

    How small a spark may kindle fancy's flame
    And light up all the past! The very same
    Glad sounds and sights that charmed my heart of old
    Arrest me now--I hear them and behold.

    Ah! yonder is the happy circle seated
    Within, the favorite bower! I am greeted
    With joyous shouts; my rosy boys have heard
    A father's voice--their little hearts are stirred
    With eager hope of some new toy or treat
    And on they rush, with never-resting feet!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Gone is the sweet illusion--like a scene
    Formed by the western vapors, when between
    The dusky earth, and day's departing light
    The curtain falls of India's sudden night.

D.L.R.

The verdant carpet embroidered with little stars of gold and silver--the short-grown, smooth,
and close-woven, but most delicate and elastic fresh sward--so soothing to the dazzled eye,
so welcome to the wearied limbs--so suggestive of innocent and happy thoughts,--so refreshing
to the freed visitor, long pent up in the smoky city--is surely no where to be seen in such
exquisite perfection as on the broad meadows and softly-swelling hills of England. And perhaps
in no country in the world could pic-nic holiday-makers or playful children with more perfect
security of life and health stroll about or rest upon Earth's richly enamelled floor from sunrise
to sunset on a summer's day. No Englishman would dare to stretch himself at full length and
address himself to sleep upon an Oriental meadow unless he were perfectly indifferent to life
itself and could see nothing terrible in the hostility of the deadliest reptiles. When wading
through the long grass and thick jungles of Bengal, he is made to acknowledge the full force
of the true and beautiful expression--"In the midst of life we are in death." The British Indian
exile on his return home is delighted with the "sweet security" of his native fields. He may
then feel with Wordsworth how

    Dear is the forest frowning o'er his head.
    And dear the velvet greensward to his tread.

Or he may exclaim in the words of poor Keats--now slumbering under a foreign turf--

    Happy is England! I could be content
    To see no other verdure than her own.

It is a pleasing proof of the fine moral influence of natural scenery that the most ceremonious
strangers can hardly be long seated together in the open air on the "velvet greensward" without
casting off for a while the cold formalities of artificial life, and becoming as frank and
social as ingenuous school-boys. Nature breathes peace and geniality into almost every human heart.

"John Thelwall," says Coleridge, "had something very good about him. We were sitting in a beautiful
recess in the Quantocks when I said to him 'Citizen John, this is a fine place to talk treason
in!' 'Nay, Citizen Samuel,' replied he, 'it is rather a place to make us forget that there
is any necessity for treason!'"

Leigh Hunt, who always looks on nature with the eye of a true painter and the imagination of
a true poet, has represented with delightful force and vividness some of those accidents of
light and shade that diversify an English meadow.

RAIN AND SUNSHINE IN MAY.

"Can any thing be more lovely, than the meadows between the rains of May, when the sun smites
them on the sudden like a painter, and they laugh up at him, as if he had lighted a loving cheek!

I speak of a season when the returning threats of cold and the resisting warmth of summer time,
make robust mirth in the air; when the winds imitate on a sudden the vehemence of winter; and
silver-white clouds are abrupt in their coming down and shadows on the grass chase one another,
panting, over the fields, like a pursuit of spirits. With undulating necks they pant forward,
like hounds or the leopard.

See! the cloud is after the light, gliding over the country like the shadow of a god; and now
the meadows are lit up here and there with sunshine, as if the soul of Titian were standing
in heaven, and playing his fancies on them. Green are the trees in shadow; but the trees in
the sun how twenty-fold green they are--rich and variegated with gold!"

One of the many exquisite out-of-doors enjoyments for the observers of nature, is the sight
of an English harvest. How cheering it is to behold the sickles flashing in the sun, as the
reapers with well sinewed arm, and with a sweeping movement, mow down the close-arrayed ranks
of the harvest field! What are "the rapture of the strife" and all the "pomp, pride and circumstance
of glorious war," that bring death to some and agony and grief to others, compared with the
green and golden trophies of the honest Husbandman whose bloodless blade makes no wife a widow,
no child an orphan,--whose office is not to spread horror and desolation through shrieking
cities, but to multiply and distribute the riches of nature over a smiling land.

But let us quit the open fields for a time, and turn again to the flowery retreats of

    Retired Leisure
    That in trim gardens takes his pleasure.

In all ages, in all countries, in all creeds, a garden is represented as the scene not only
of earthly but of celestial enjoyment. The ancients had their Elysian Fields and the garden
of the Hesperides, the Christian has his Garden of Eden, the Mahommedan his Paradise of groves
and flowers and crystal fountains and black eyed Houries.

"God Almighty," says Lord Bacon, "first planted a garden; and indeed it is the purest of all
pleasures: it is the greatest refreshment to the spirits of man." Bacon, though a utilitarian
philosopher, was such a lover of flowers that he was never satisfied unless he saw them in
almost every room of his house, and when he came to discourse of them in his Essays, his thoughts
involuntarily moved harmonious numbers. How naturally the following prose sentence in Bacon's
Essay on Gardens almost resolves itself into verse.

"For the heath which was the first part of our plot, I wish it to be framed as much as may
be to a natural wildness. Trees I would have none in it, but some thickets made only of sweet
briar and honeysuckle, and some wild vine amongst; and the ground set with violets, strawberries
and primroses; for these are sweet, and prosper in the shade."

It has been observed that the love of gardens is the only passion which increases with age.
It is generally the most indulged in the two extremes of life. In middle age men are often
too much involved in the affairs of the busy world fully to appreciate the tranquil pleasures
in the gift of Flora. Flowers are the toys of the young and a source of the sweetest and serenest
enjoyments for the old. But there is no season of life for which they are unfitted and of which
they cannot increase the charm.

"Give me," says the poet Rogers, "a garden well kept, however small, two or three spreading
trees and a mind at ease, and I defy the world." The poet adds that he would not have his garden,
too much extended. He seems to think it possible to have too much of a good thing. "Three acres
of flowers and a regiment of gardeners," he says, "bring no more pleasure than a sufficiency."
"A hundred thousand roses," he adds, "which we look at en masse, do not identify themselves
in the same manner as even a very small border; and hence, if the cottager's mind is properly
attuned, the little cottage-garden may give him more real delight than belongs to the owner
of a thousand acres." In a smaller garden "we become acquainted, as it were," says the same
poet, "and even form friendships with, individual flowers." It is delightful to observe how
nature thus adjusts the inequalities of fortune and puts the poor man, in point of innocent
happiness, on a level with the rich. The man of the most moderate means may cultivate many
elegant tastes, and may have flowers in his little garden that the greatest sovereign in the
world might enthusiastically admire. Flowers are never vulgar. A rose from a peasant's patch
of ground is as fresh and elegant and fragrant as if it had been nurtured in a Royal parterre,
and it would not be out of place in the richest porcelain vase of the most aristocratical drawing-room
in Europe. The poor man's flower is a present for a princess, and of all gifts it is the one
least liable to be rejected even by the haughty. It might he worn on the fair brow or bosom
of Queen Victoria with a nobler grace than the costliest or most elaborate production of the
goldsmith or the milliner.

The majority of mankind, in the most active spheres of life, have moments in which they sigh
for rural retirement, and seldom dream of such a retreat without making a garden the leading
charm of it. Sir Henry Wotton says that Lord Bacon's garden was one of the best that he had
seen either at home or abroad. Evelyn, the author of "Sylva, or a Discourse of Forest Trees,"
dwells with fond admiration, and a pleasing egotism, on the charms of his own beautiful and
highly cultivated estate at Wooton in the county of Surrey. He tells us that the house is large
and ancient and is "sweetly environed with delicious streams and venerable woods." "I will
say nothing," he continues, "of the air, because the pre-eminence is universally given to Surrey,
the soil being dry and sandy; but I should speak much of the gardens, fountains and groves
that adorn it, were they not generally known to be amongst the most natural, and (till this
later and universal luxury of the whole nation, since abounding in such expenses) the most
magnificent that England afforded, and which indeed gave one of the first examples to that
elegancy, since so much in vogue and followed, for the managing of their waters and other elegancies
of that nature." Before he came into the possession of his paternal estate he resided at Say's
Court, near Deptford, an estate which he possessed by purchase, and where he had a superb holly
hedge four hundred feet long, nine feet high and five feet broad. Of this hedge, he was particularly
proud, and he exultantly asks, "Is there under heaven a more glorious and refreshing object
of the kind?" When the Czar of Muscovy visited England in 1698 to instruct himself in the art
of ship-building, he had the use of Evelyn's house and garden, at Say's Court, and while there
did so much damage to the latter that the owner loudly and bitterly complained. At last the
Government gave Evelyn £150 as an indemnification. Czar Peter's favorite amusement was to ride
in a wheel barrow through what its owner had once called the "impregnable hedge of holly."
Evelyn was passionately fond of gardening. "The life and felicity of an excellent gardener,"
he observes, "is preferable to all other diversions." His faith in the art of Landscape-gardening
was unwavering. It could remove mountains. Here is an extract from his Diary.

    "Gave his brother some directions about his garden" (at Wooton
    Surrey), "which, he was desirous to put into some form, for
    which he was to remove a mountain overgrown with large trees and
    thickets and a moat within ten yards of the house."

No sooner said than done. His brother dug down the mountain and "flinging it into a rapid stream
(which carried away the sand) filled up the moat and levelled that noble area where now the
garden and fountain is."

Though Evelyn dearly loved a garden, his chief delight was not in flowers but in forest trees,
and he was more anxious to improve the growth of plants indigenous to the soil than to introduce
exotics.[007]

Sir William Temple was so attached to his garden, that he left directions in his will that
his heart should be buried there. It was enclosed in a silver box and placed under a sun-dial.

Dr. Thomson Reid, the eminent Scottish metaphysician, used to be found working in his garden
in his eighty-seventh year.

The name of Chatham is in the long list of eminent men who have enjoyed a garden. We are told
that "he loved the country: took peculiar pleasure in gardening; and had an extremely happy
taste in laying out grounds." What a delightful thing it must have been for that great statesman,
thus to relieve his mind from the weight of public care in the midst of quiet bowers planted
and trained by his own hand!

Burton, in his Anatomy of Melancholy, notices the attractions of a garden as amongst the finest
remedies for depression of the mind. I must give the following extracts from his quaint but
interesting pages.

    "To see the pleasant fields, the crystal fountains,
    And take the gentle air amongst the mountains.

"To walk amongst orchards, gardens, bowers, mounts, and arbours, artificial wildernesses, green
thickets, arches, groves, lawns, rivulets, fountains, and such like pleasant places, (like
that Antiochian Daphne,) brooks, pools, fishponds, between wood and water, in a fair meadow,
by a river side, ubi variae avium cantationes, florum colores, pratorum frutices, &c. to disport
in some pleasant plain, or park, run up a steep hill sometimes, or sit in a shady seat, must
needs be a delectable recreation. Hortus principis et domus ad delectationem facta, cum sylvâ,
monte et piscinâ, vulgò la montagna: the prince's garden at Ferrara, Schottus highly magnifies,
with the groves, mountains, ponds, for a delectable prospect; he was much affected with it;
a Persian paradise, or pleasant park, could not be more delectable in his sight. St. Bernard,
in the description of his monastery, is almost ravished with the pleasures of it. "A sick man
(saith he) sits upon a green bank, and when the dog-star parcheth the plains, and dries up
rivers, he lies in a shady bower," Fronde sub arborea ferventia temperat astra, "and feeds
his eyes with variety of objects, herbs, trees, to comfort his misery; he receives many delightsome
smells, and fills his ears with that sweet and various harmony of birds; good God, (saith he),
what a company of pleasures hast thou made for man!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"The country hath his recreations, the city his several gymnics and exercises, May games, feasts,
wakes, and merry meetings to solace themselves; the very being in the country; that life itself
is a sufficient recreation to some men, to enjoy such pleasures, as those old patriarchs did.
Dioclesian, the emperor, was so much affected with it, that he gave over his sceptre, and turned
gardener. Constantine wrote twenty books of husbandry. Lysander, when ambassadors came to see
him, bragged of nothing more than of his orchard, hi sunt ordines mei. What shall I say of
Cincinnatus, Cato, Tully, and many such? how they have been pleased with it, to prune, plant,
inoculate and graft, to show so many several kinds of pears, apples, plums, peaches, &c."

The Romans of all ranks made use of flowers as ornaments and emblems, but they were not generally
so fond of directing or assisting the gardener, or taking the spade or hoe into their own hands,
as are the British peasantry, gentry and nobility of the present day. They were not amateur
Florists. They prized highly their fruit trees and pastures and cool grottoes and umbrageous
groves; but they expended comparatively little time, skill or taste upon the flower-garden.
Even their love of nature, though thoroughly genuine as far as it went, did not imply that
minute and exact knowledge of her charms which characterizes some of our best British poets.
They had no Thompson or Cowper. Their country seats were richer in architectural than floral
beauty. Tully's Tuscan Villa, so fondly and minutely described by the proprietor himself, would
appear to little advantage in the eyes of a true worshipper of Flora, if compared with Pope's
retreat at Twickenham. The ancients had a taste for the rural, not for the gardenesque, nor
perhaps even for the picturesque. The English have a taste for all three. Hence they have good
landscape-gardeners and first-rate landscape-painters. The old Romans had neither. But though,
some of our Spitalfields weavers have shown a deeper love, and perhaps even a finer taste,
for flowers, than were exhibited by the citizens of Rome, abundant evidence is furnished to
us by the poets in all ages and in all countries that nature, in some form or another has ever
charmed the eye and the heart of man. The following version of a famous passage in Virgil,
especially the lines in Italics, may give the English reader some idea of a Roman's dream of

RURAL HAPPINESS.

    Ah! happy Swains! if they their bliss but knew,
    Whom, far from boisterous war, Earth's bosom true
    With easy food supplies. If they behold
    No lofty dome its gorgeous gates unfold
    And pour at morn from all its chambers wide
    Of flattering visitants the mighty tide;
    Nor gaze on beauteous columns richly wrought,
    Or tissued robes, or busts from Corinth brought;
    Nor their white wool with Tyrian poison soil,
    Nor taint with Cassia's bark their native oil;
    Yet peace is theirs; a life true bliss that yields;
    And various wealth; leisure mid ample fields,
    Grottoes, and living lakes, and vallies green,
    And lowing herds; and 'neath a sylvan screen,
    Delicious slumbers. There the lawn and cave
    With beasts of chase abound. The young ne'er crave
    A prouder lot; their patient toil is cheered;
    Their Gods are worshipped and their sires revered;
    And there when Justice passed from earth away
    She left the latest traces of her sway.

D.L.R.

Lord Bacon was perhaps the first Englishman who endeavored to reform the old system of English
gardening, and to show that it was contrary to good taste and an insult to nature. "As for
making knots or figures," he says, "with divers colored earths, that may lie under the windows
of the house on that side on which the garden stands, they be but toys: you may see as good
sights many times in tarts." Bacon here alludes, I suppose, to the old Dutch fashion of dividing
flowerbeds into many compartments, and instead of filling them with flowers, covering one with
red brick dust, another with charcoal, a third with yellow sand, a fourth with chalk, a fifth
with broken China, and others with green glass, or with spars and ores. But Milton, in his
exquisite description of the garden of Eden, does not allude to the same absurd fashion when
he speaks of "curious knots,"

                              Which not nice art,
    In beds and curious knots, but nature boon
    Poured forth profuse on hill and dale and plain.

By these curious knots the poet seems to allude, not to figures of "divers colored earth,"
but to the artificial and complicated arrangements and divisions of flowers and flower-beds.

Though Bacon went not quite so freely to nature as our latest landscape-gardeners have done,
he made the first step in the right direction and deserves therefore the compliment which Mason
has paid him in his poem of The English Garden.

                              On thy realm
    Philosophy his sovereign lustre spread;
    Yet did he deign to light with casual glance
    The wilds of Taste, Yes, sagest Verulam,
    'Twas thine to banish from the royal groves
    Each childish vanity of crisped knot[008]

    And sculptured foliage; to the lawn restore
    Its ample space, and bid it feast the sight
    With verdure pure, unbroken, unabridged;
    For verdure soothes the eye, as roseate sweets
    The smell, or music's melting strains the ear.

Yes--"verdure soothes the eye:"--and the mind too. Bacon himself observes, that "nothing is
more pleasant to the eye than green grass kept finely shorn." Mason slightly qualifies his
commendation of "the sage" by admitting that he had not quite completed his emancipation from
the bad taste of his day.

                Witness his high arched hedge
    In pillored state by carpentry upborn,
    With colored mirrors decked and prisoned birds.
    But, when our step has paced the proud parterre,
    And reached the heath, then Nature glads our eye
    Sporting in all her lovely carelessness,
    There smiles in varied tufts the velvet rose,
    There flaunts the gadding woodbine, swells the ground
    In gentle hillocks, and around its sides
    Through blossomed shades the secret pathway steals.

The English Garden.

In one of the notes to The English Garden it is stated that "Bacon was the prophet, Milton
the herald of modern Gardening; and Addison, Pope, and Kent the champions of true taste." Kent
was by profession both a Painter and a Landscape-Gardener. Addison who had a pretty little
retreat at Bilton, near Rugby, evinces in most of his occasional allusions to gardens a correct
judgment. He complains that even in his time our British gardeners, instead of humouring nature,
loved to deviate from it as much as possible. The system of verdant sculpture had not gone
out of fashion. Our trees still rose in cones, globes, and pyramids. The work of the scissors
was on every plant and bush. It was Pope, however, who did most to bring the topiary style
into contempt and to encourage a more natural taste, by his humorous paper in the Guardian
and his poetical Epistle to the Earl of Burlington. Gray, the poet, observes in one of his
letters, that "our skill in gardening, or rather laying out grounds, is the only taste we can
call our own; the only proof of original talent in matters of pleasure. This is no small honor
to us;" he continues, "since neither France nor Italy, has ever had the least notion of it."
"Whatever may have been reported, whether truly or falsely" (says a contributor to The World)
"of the Chinese gardens, it is certain that we are the first of the Europeans who have founded
this taste; and we have been so fortunate in the genius of those who have had the direction
of some of the finest spots of ground, that we may now boast a success equal to that profusion
of expense which has been destined to promote the rapid progress of this happy enthusiasm.
Our gardens are already the astonishment of foreigners, and, in proportion as they accustom
themselves to consider and understand them will become their admiration." The periodical from
which this is taken was published exactly a century ago, and the writer's prophecy has been
long verified. Foreigners send to us for gardeners to help them to lay out their grounds in
the English fashion. And we are told by the writer of an interesting article on gardens, in
the Quarterly Review, that "the lawns at Paris, to say nothing of Naples, are regularly irrigated
to keep up even the semblance of English verdure; and at the gardens of Versailles, and Caserta,
near Naples, the walks have been supplied from the Kensington gravel-pits." "It is not probably
known," adds the same writer, "that among our exportations every year is a large quantity of
evergreens for the markets of France and Germany, and that there are some nurserymen almost
wholly engaged in this branch of trade."

Pomfret, a poet of small powers, if a poet at all, has yet contrived to produce a popular composition
in verse--The Choice--because he has touched with great good fortune on some of the sweetest
domestic hopes and enjoyments of his countrymen.

The Choice.

Pomfret perhaps illustrates the general taste when he places his garden "near some fair town."
Our present laureate, though a truly inspired poet, and a genuine lover of Nature even in her
remotest retreats, has the garden of his preference, "not quite beyond the busy world."

    Not wholly in the busy world, nor quite
    Beyond it, blooms the garden that I love,
    News from the humming city comes to it
    In sound of funeral or of marriage bells;
    And sitting muffled in dark leaves you hear
    The windy clanging of the minster clock;
    Although between it and the garden lies
    A league of grass.

Even "sounds inharmonious in themselves and harsh" are often pleasing when mellowed by the
space of air through which they pass.

    'Tis distance lends enchantment to the sound.

Shakespeare.

Besides, to speak truly, few men, however studious or philosophical, desire a total isolation
from the world. It is pleasant to be able to take a sort of side glance at humanity, even when
we are most in love with nature, and to feel that we can join our fellow creatures again when
the social feeling returns upon us. Man was not made to live alone. Cowper, though he clearly
loved retirement and a garden, did not desire to have the pleasure entirely to himself. "Grant
me," he says, "a friend in my retreat."

    To whom to whisper solitude is sweet.

Cowper lived and died a bachelor. In the case of a married man and a father, garden delights
are doubled by the presence of the family and friends, if wife and children happen to be what
they should be, and the friends are genuine and genial.

All true poets delight in gardens. The truest that ever lived spent his latter days at New
Place in Stratford-upon-Avon. He had a spacious and beautiful garden. Charles Knight tells
us that "the Avon washed its banks; and within its enclosures it had its sunny terraces and
green lawns, its pleached alleys and honeysuckle bowers," In this garden Shakespeare planted
with his own hands his celebrated Mulberry tree. It was a noble specimen of the black Mulberry
introduced into England in 1548[009]. In 1605, James I. issued a Royal edict recommending the
cultivation of silkworms and offering packets of mulberry seeds to those amongst his subjects
who were willing to sow them. Shakespeare's tree was planted in 1609. Mr. Loudon, observes
that the black Mulberry has been known from the earliest records of antiquity and that it is
twice mentioned in the Bible: namely, in the second Book of Samuel and in the Psalms. When
New Place was in the possession of Sir Hough Clopton, who was proud of its interesting association
with the history of our great poet, not only were Garrick and Macklin most hospitably entertained
under the Mulberry tree, but all strangers on a proper application were admitted to a sight
of it. But when Sir Hough Clopton was succeeded by the Reverend Francis Gastrell, that gentleman,
to save himself the trouble of showing the tree to visitors, had "the gothic barbarity" to
cut down and root up that interesting--indeed sacred memorial--of the Pride of the British
Isles. The people of Stratford were so enraged at this sacrilege that they broke Mr. Gastrell's
windows. That prosaic personage at last found the place too hot for him, and took his departure
from a town whose inhabitants "doated on his very absence;" but before he went he completed
the fall sum of his sins against good taste and good feeling by pulling to the ground the house
in which Shakespeare had lived and died. This was done, it is said, out of sheer spite to the
towns-people, with some of whom Mr. Gastrell had had a dispute about the rate at which the
house was taxed. His change of residence was no great relief to him, for the whole British
public felt sorely aggrieved, and wherever he went he was peppered with all sorts of squibs
and satires. He "slid into verse," and "hitched in a rhyme."

    Sacred to ridicule his whole life long,
    And the sad burden of a merry song.

Thomas Sharp, a watchmaker, got possession of the fragments of Shakespeare's Mulberry tree,
and worked them into all sorts of elegant ornaments and toys, and disposed of them at great
prices. The corporation of Stratford presented Garrick with the freedom of the town in a box
made of the wood of this famous tree, and the compliment seems to have suggested to him his
public festival or pageant in honor of the poet. This Jubilee, which was got up with great
zeal, and at great expense and trouble, was attended by vast throngs of the admirers of Shakespeare
from all parts of the kingdom. It was repeated on the stage and became so popular as a theatrical
exhibition that it was represented night after night for more than half a season to crowded
audiences.

Upon the subject of gardens, let us hear what has been said by the self-styled "melancholy
Cowley." When in the smoky city pent, amidst the busy hum of men, he sighed unceasingly for
some green retreat. As he paced the crowded thorough-fares of London, he thought of the velvet
turf and the pure air of the country. His imagination carried him into secluded groves or to
the bank of a murmuring river, or into some trim and quiet garden. "I never," he says, "had
any other desire so strong and so like to covetousness, as that one which I have had always,
that I might be master at last of a small house and a large garden, with very moderate conveniences
joined to them, and there dedicate the remainder of my life only to the culture of them and
the study of nature," The late Miss Mitford, whose writings breathe so freshly of the nature
that she loved so dearly, realized for herself a similar desire. It is said that she had the
cottage of a peasant with the garden of a Duchess. Cowley is not contented with expressing
in plain prose his appreciation of garden enjoyments. He repeatedly alludes to them in verse.

    Thus, thus (and this deserved great Virgil's praise)
    The old Corycian yeoman passed his days;
    Thus his wise life Abdolonymus spent;
    Th' ambassadors, which the great emperor sent
    To offer him a crown, with wonder found
    The reverend gardener, hoeing of his ground;
    Unwillingly and slow and discontent
    From his loved cottage to a throne he went;
    And oft he stopped, on his triumphant way:
    And oft looked back: and oft was heard to say
    Not without sighs, Alas! I there forsake
    A happier kingdom than I go to take.

Lib. IV. Plantarum.

Here is a similar allusion by the same poet to the delights which great men amongst the ancients
have taken in a rural retirement.

    Methinks, I see great Dioclesian walk
    In the Salonian garden's noble shade
    Which by his own imperial hands was made,
    I see him smile, methinks, as he does talk
    With the ambassadors, who come in vain
    To entice him to a throne again.

    "If I, my friends," said he, "should to you show
    All the delights which in these gardens grow,
    'Tis likelier much that you should with me stay,
    Than 'tis that you should carry me away:
    And trust me not, my friends, if every day
    I walk not here with more delight,

    Than ever, after the most happy sight
    In triumph to the Capitol I rode,
    To thank the gods, and to be thought myself almost a god,"

The Garden.

Cowley does not omit the important moral which a garden furnishes.

    Where does the wisdom and the power divine
    In a more bright and sweet reflection shine?
    Where do we finer strokes and colors see
    Of the Creator's real poetry.
    Than when we with attention look
    Upon the third day's volume of the book?
    If we could open and intend our eye
    We all, like Moses, might espy,
    E'en in a bush, the radiant Deity.

In Leigh Hunt's charming book entitled The Town, I find the following notice of the partiality
of poets for houses with gardens attached to them:--

"It is not surprizing that garden-houses as they were called; should have formerly abounded
in Holborn, in Bunhill Row, and other (at that time) suburban places. We notice the fact, in
order to observe how fond the poets were of occupying houses of this description. Milton seems
to have made a point of having one. The only London residence of Chapman which is known, was
in Old Street Road; doubtless at that time a rural suburb. Beaumont and Fletcher's house, on
the Surrey side of the Thames, (for they lived as well as wrote together,) most probably had
a garden; and Dryden's house in Gerard Street looked into the garden of the mansion built by
the Earls of Leicester. A tree, or even a flower, put in a window in the streets of a great
city, (and the London citizens, to their credit, are fond of flowers,) affects the eye something
in the same way as the hand-organs, which bring unexpected music to the ear. They refresh the
common-places of life, shed a harmony through the busy discord, and appeal to those first sources
of emotion, which are associated with the remembrance of all that is young and innocent."

Milton must have been a passionate lover of flowers and flower-gardens or he could never have
exhibited the exquisite taste and genial feeling which characterize all the floral allusions
and descriptions with which so much of his poetry is embellished. He lived for some time in
a house in Westminster over-looking the Park. The same house was tenanted by Jeremy Bentham
for forty years. It would be difficult to meet with any two individuals of more opposite temperaments
than the author of Paradise Lost and the Utilitarian Philosopher. There is or was a stone in
the wall at the end of the garden inscribed TO THE PRINCE OF POETS.

No poet, ancient or modern, has described a garden on a large scale in so noble a style as
Milton. He has anticipated the finest conceptions of the latest landscape-gardeners, and infinitely
surpassed all the accounts we have met with of the gardens of the olden time before us. His
Paradise is a

    Spot more delicious than those gardens feigned
    Or of revived Adonis or renowned
    Alcinous, host of old Laertes' son
    Or that, not mystic, where the sapient King
    Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse[010]

The description is too long to quote entire, but I must make room for a
delightful extract. Familiar as it must be to all lovers of poetry, who
will object to read it again and again? Genuine poetry is like a
masterpiece of the painter's art:--we can gaze with admiration for the
hundredth time on a noble picture. The mind and the eye are never
satiated with the truly beautiful. "A thing of beauty is a joy for
ever." Yet higher than their tops,
    The verdurous wall of Paradise up-sprung:
    Which to our general sire gave prospect large
    Into his nether empire neighbouring round;
    And higher than that wall a circling row
    Of goodliest trees, loaden with fairest fruit,
    Blossoms and fruits at once, of golden hue,
    Appear'd, with gay enamell'd colours mix'd;
    On which the sun more glad impress'd his beams,
    Than on fair evening cloud, or humid bow.
    When God hath shower'd the earth; so lovely seem'd
    That landscape: and of pure now purer air
    Meets his approach, and to the heart inspires
    Vernal delight and joy, able to drive
    All sadness but despair: now gentle gales,
    Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense
    Native perfumes and whisper whence they stole
    Those balmy spoils. As when to them who sail
    Beyond the Cape of Hope, and now are past
    Mozambic, off at sea north-east winds blow
    Sabean odours from the spicy shore
    Of Araby the Blest; with such delay
    Well pleased they slack their course, and many a league
    Cheer'd with the grateful smell, old Ocean smiles.

Pope in his grounds at Twickenham, and Shenstone in his garden farm of the Leasowes, taught
their countrymen to understand how much taste and refinement of soul may be connected with
the laying out of gardens and the cultivation of flowers. I am sorry to learn that the famous
retreats of these poets are not now what they were. The lovely nest of the little Nightingale
of Twickenham has fallen into vulgar hands. And when Mr. Loudon visited (in 1831) the once
beautiful grounds of Shenstone, he "found them in a state of indescribable neglect and ruin."

Pope said that of all his works that of which he was proudest was his garden. It was of but
five acres, or perhaps less, but to this he is said to have given a charming variety. He enumerates
amongst the friends who assisted him in the improvement of his grounds, the gallant Earl of
Peterborough "whose lightnings pierced the Iberian lines."

    Know, all the distant din that world can keep,
    Rolls o'er my grotto, and but soothes my sleep.
    There my retreat the best companions grace
    Chiefs out of war and statesmen out of place.
    There St. John mingles with my friendly bowl
    The feast of reason and the flow of soul;
    And he whose lightnings pierced the Iberian lines
    Now forms my quincunx and now ranks my vines;
    Or tames the genius of the stubborn plain
    Almost as quickly as he conquered Spain.

Frederick Prince of Wales took a lively interest in Pope's tasteful Tusculanum and made him
a present of some urns or vases either for his "laurel circus or to terminate his points."
His famous grotto, which he is so fond of alluding to, was excavated to avoid an inconvenience.
His property lying on both sides of the public highway, he contrived his highly ornamented
passage under the road to preserve privacy and to connect the two portions of his estate.

The poet has given us in one of his letters a long and lively description of his subterranean
embellishments. But his verse will live longer than his prose. He has immortalized this grotto,
so radiant with spars and ores and shells, in the following poetical inscription:--

    Thou, who shalt stop, where Thames' translucent wave
    Shines a broad mirror through the shadowy cave,
    Where lingering drops from mineral roofs distil,
    And pointed crystals break the sparkling rill,
    Unpolished gems no ray on pride bestow,
    And latent metals innocently glow,
    Approach! Great Nature studiously behold,
    And eye the mine without a wish for gold
    Approach--but awful! Lo, the Egerian grot,
    Where, nobly pensive, ST JOHN sat and thought,
    Where British sighs from dying WYNDHAM stole,
    And the bright flame was shot thro' MARCHMONT'S soul;
    Let such, such only, tread this sacred floor
    Who dare to love their country, and be poor.

Horace Walpole, speaking of the poet's garden, tells us that "the passing through the gloom
from the grotto to the opening day, the retiring and again assembling shades, the dusky groves,
the larger lawn, and the solemnity at the cypresses that led up to his mother's tomb, were
managed with exquisite judgment."

            Cliveden's proud alcove,
    The bower of wanton Shrewsbury and love,

alluded to by Pope in his sketch of the character of Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, though laid
out by Kent, was probably improved by the poet's suggestions. Walpole seems to think that the
beautiful grounds at Rousham, laid out for General Dormer, were planned on the model of the
garden at Twickenham, at least the opening and retiring "shades of Venus's Vale." And these
grounds at Rousham were pronounced "the most engaging of all Kent's works." It is said that
the design of the garden at Carlton House, was borrowed from that of Pope.

Wordsworth was correct in his observation that "Landscape gardening is a liberal art akin to
the arts of poetry and painting." Walpole describes it as "an art that realizes painting and
improves nature." "Mahomet," he adds, "imagined an Elysium, but Kent created many."

Pope's mansion was not a very spacious one, but it was large enough for a private gentleman
of inexpensive habits. After the poet's death it was purchased by Sir William Stanhope who
enlarged both the house and garden.[012] A bust of Pope, in white marble, has been placed over
an arched way with the following inscription from the pen of Lord Nugent:

    The humble roof, the garden's scanty line,
    Ill suit the genius of the bard divine;
    But fancy now displays a fairer scope
    And Stanhope's plans unfold the soul of Pope.

I have not heard who set up this bust with its impudent inscription. I hope it was not Stanhope
himself. I cannot help thinking that it would have been a truer compliment to the memory of
Pope if the house and grounds had been kept up exactly as he had left them. Most people, I
suspect, would greatly have preferred the poet's own "unfolding of his soul" to that "unfolding"
attempted for him by a Stanhope and commemorated by a Nugent. Pope exhibited as much taste
in laying out his grounds as in constructing his poems. Sir William, after his attempt to make
the garden more worthy of the original designer, might just as modestly have undertaken to
enlarge and improve the poetry of Pope on the plea that it did not sufficiently unfold his
soul. A line of Lord Nugent's might in that case have been transferred from the marble bust
to the printed volume:

    His fancy now displays a fairer scope.

Or the enlarger and improver might have taken his motto from Shakespeare:

    To my unfolding lend a gracious ear.

This would have been an appropriate motto for the title-page of "The Poems of Pope: enlarged
and improved: or The Soul of the Poet Unfolded."

But in sober truth, Pope, whether as a gardener or as a poet, required no enlarger or improver
of his works. After Sir William Stanhope had left Pope's villa it came into the possession
of Lord Mendip, who exhibited a proper respect for the poet's memory; but when in 1807 it was
sold to the Baroness Howe, that lady pulled down the house and built another. The place subsequently
came into the possession of a Mr. Young. The grounds have now no resemblance to what the taste
of Pope had once made them. Even his mother's monument has been removed! Few things would have
more deeply touched the heart of the poet than the anticipation of this insult to the memory
of so revered a parent. His filial piety was as remarkable as his poetical genius. No passages
in his works do him more honor both as a man and as a poet than those which are mellowed into
a deeper tenderness of sentiment and a softer and sweeter music by his domestic affections.
There are probably few readers of English poetry who have not the following lines by heart,

    Me, let the tender office long engage
    To rock the cradle of reposing age;
    With lenient arts extend a mother's breath;
    Make langour smile, and smooth the bed of death;
    Explore the thought, explain the asking eye,
    And keep at least one parent from the sky.

In a letter to Swift (dated March 29, 1731) begun by Lord Bolingbroke and concluded by Pope,
the latter speaks thus touchingly of his dear old parent:

"My Lord has spoken justly of his lady; why not I of my mother? Yesterday was her birth-day,
now entering on the ninety-first year of her age; her memory much diminished, but her senses
very little hurt, her sight and hearing good; she sleeps not ill, eats moderately, drinks water,
says her prayers; this is all she does. I have reason to thank God for continuing so long to
me a very good and tender parent, and for allowing me to exercise for some years those cares
which are now as necessary to her, as hers have been to me."

Pope lost his mother two years, two months, and a few days after the date of this letter. Three
days after her death he entreated Richardson, the painter, to take a sketch of her face, as
she lay in her coffin: and for this purpose Pope somewhat delayed her interment. The writer
adds, "I shall hope to see you this evening, as late as you will, or to-morrow morning as early,
before this winter flower is faded."

On the small obelisk in the garden, erected by Pope to the memory of his mother, he placed
the following simple and pathetic inscription.

    AH! EDITHA!
    MATRUM OPTIMA!
    MULIERUM AMANTISSIMA!
    VALE!

I wonder that any one could have had the heart to remove or to destroy so interesting a memorial.

It is said that Pope planted his celebrated weeping willow at Twickenham with his own hands,
and that it was the first of its particular species introduced into England. Happening to be
with Lady Suffolk when she received a parcel from Spain, he observed that it was bound with
green twigs which looked as if they might vegetate. "Perhaps," said he, "these may produce
something that we have not yet in England." He tried a cutting, and it succeeded. The tree
was removed by some person as barbarous as the reverend gentleman who cut down Shakespeare's
Mulberry Tree. The Willow was destroyed for the same reason, as the Mulberry Tree--because
the owner was annoyed at persons asking to see it. The Weeping Willow

    That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream,[013]

has had its interest with people in general much increased by its association with the history
of Napoleon in the Island of St. Helena. The tree whose boughs seemed to hang so fondly over
his remains has now its scions in all parts of the world. Few travellers visited the tomb without
taking a small cutting of the Napoleon Willow for cultivation in their own land. Slips of the
Willow at Twickenham, like those of the Willow at St. Helena, have also found their way into
many countries. In 1789 the Empress of Russia had some of them planted in her garden at St.
Petersburgh.

Mr. Loudon tells us that there is an old oak in Binfield Wood, Windsor Forest, which is called
Pope's Oak, and which bears the inscription "HERE POPE SANG:"[014] but according to general
tradition it was a beech tree, under which Pope wrote his "Windsor Forest." It is said that
as that tree was decayed, Lady Gower had the inscription alluded to carved upon another tree
near it. Perhaps the substituted tree was an oak.

I may here mention that in the Vale of Avoca there is a tree celebrated as that under which
Thomas Moore wrote the verses entitled "The meeting of the Waters."

The allusion to Pope's Oak reminds me that Chaucer is said to have planted three oak trees
in Donnington Park near Newbury. Not one of them is now, I believe, in existence. There is
an oak tree in Windsor Forest above 1000 years old. In the hollow of this tree twenty people
might be accommodated with standing room. It is called King's Oak: it was William the Conqueror's
favorite tree. Herne's Oak in Windsor Park, is said by some to be still standing, but it is
described as a mere anatomy.

    ----An old oak whose boughs are mossed with age,
    And high top bald with dry antiquity.

As You Like it.

"It stretches out its bare and sapless branches," says Mr. Jesse, "like
the skeleton arms of some enormous giant, and is almost fearful in its
decay." Herne's Oak, as every one knows, is immortalised by
Shakespeare, who has spread its fame over many lands.
    You have heard of such a spirit; and well you know,
    The superstitious, idle-headed eld
    Received, and did deliver to our age,
    This tale of Herne the Hunter for a truth.

Merry Wives of Windsor.

"Herne, the hunter" is said to have hung himself upon one of the branches of this tree, and even,

    ----Yet there want not many that do fear,
    In deep of night to walk by this Herne's Oak.

Merry Wives of Windsor.

It was not long ago visited by the King of Prussia to whom Shakespeare had rendered it an object
of great interest.

It is unpleasant to add that there is considerable doubt and dispute as to its identity. Charles
Knight and a Quarterly Reviewer both maintain that Herne's Oak was cut down with a number of
other old trees in obedience to an order from George the Third when he was not in his right
mind, and that his Majesty deeply regretted the order he had given when he found that the most
interesting tree in his Park had been destroyed. Mr. Jesse, in his Gleanings in Natural History,
says that after some pains to ascertain the truth, he is convinced that this story is not correct,
and that the famous old tree is still standing. He adds that George the Fourth often alluded
to the story and said that though one of the trees cut down was supposed to have been Herne's
Oak, it was not so in reality. George the Third, it is said, once called the attention of Mr.
Ingalt, the manager of Windsor Home Park to a particular tree, and said "I brought you here
to point out this tree to you. I commit it to your especial charge; and take care that no damage
is ever done to it. I had rather that every tree in the park should be cut down than that this
tree should be hurt. This is Hernes Oak."

Sir Philip Sidney's Oak at Penshurst mentioned by Ben Jonson--

    That taller tree, of which the nut was set
    At his great birth, where all the Muses met--

is still in existence. It is thirty feet in circumference. Waller also alludes to

    Yonder tree which stands the sacred mark
    Of noble Sidney's birth.

Yardley Oak, immortalized by Cowper, is now in a state of decay.

    Time made thee what thou wert--king of the woods!
    And time hath made thee what thou art--a cave
    For owls to roost in.

Cowper.

The tree is said to be at least fifteen hundred years old. It cannot hold its present place
much longer; but for many centuries to come it will

    Live in description and look green in song.

It stands on the grounds of the Marquis of Northampton; and to prevent people from cutting
off and carrying away pieces of it as relics, the following notice has been painted on a board
and nailed to the tree:--"Out of respect to the memory of the poet Cowper, the Marquis of Northampton
is particularly desirous of preserving this Oak."

Lord Byron, in early life, planted an oak in the garden at Newstead and indulged the fancy,
that as that flourished so should he. The oak has survived the poet, but it will not outlive
the memory of its planter or even the boyish verses which he addressed to it.

Pope observes, that "a tree is a nobler object than a prince in his coronation robes." Yet
probably the poet had never seen any tree larger than a British oak. What would he have thought
of the Baobab tree in Abyssinia, which measures from 80 to 120 feet in girth, and sometimes
reaches the age of five thousand years. We have no such sylvan patriarch in Europe. The oldest
British tree I have heard of, is a yew tree of Fortingall in Scotland, of which the age is
said to be two thousand five hundred years. If trees had long memories and could converse with
man, what interesting chapters these survivors of centuries might add to the history of the world!

Pope was not always happy in his Twickenham Paradise. His rural delights were interrupted for
a time by an unrequited passion for the beautiful and highly-gifted but eccentric Lady Mary
Wortley Montague.

These are exquisite lines, and have given delight to innumerable readers, but they gave no
delight to Lady Mary. In writing to her sister, the Countess of Mar, then at Paris, she says
in allusion to these "most musical, most melancholy" verses--"I stifled them here; and I beg
they may die the same death at Paris." It is not, however, quite so easy a thing as Lady Mary
seemed to think, to "stifle" such poetry as Pope's.

Pope's notions respecting the laying out of gardens are well expressed in the following extract
from the fourth Epistle of his Moral Essays.[015] This fourth Epistle was addressed, as most
readers will remember, to the accomplished Lord Burlington, who, as Walpole says, "had every
quality of a genius and an artist, except envy. Though his own designs were more chaste and
classic than Kent's, he entertained him in his house till his death, and was more studious
to extend his friend's fame than his own."

    Something there is more needful than expense,
    And something previous e'en to taste--'tis sense;
    Good sense, which only is the gift of Heaven,
    And though no science fairly worth the seven;
    A light, which in yourself you must perceive;
    Jones and Le Nôtre have it not to give.
    But treat the goddess like a modest fair,
    Nor over dress nor leave her wholly bare;
    Let not each beauty every where be spied,
    Where half the skill is decently to hide.
    He gains all points, who pleasingly confounds,
    Surprizes, varies, and conceals the bounds.
    Consult the genius of the place in all;[016]
    That tells the waters or to rise or fall;
    Or helps the ambitious hill the heavens to scale,
    Or scoops in circling theatres the vale;
    Calls in the country, catches opening glades,
    Joins willing woods and varies shades from shades;
    Now breaks, or now directs, th' intending lines;
    Paints as you plant, and, as you work, designs.
    Still follow sense, of every art the soul;
    Parts answering parts shall slide into a whole,
    Spontaneous beauties all around advance,
    Start e'en from difficulty, strike from chance;
    Nature shall join you; time shall make it grow
    A work to wonder at--perhaps a STOWE.[017]
    Without it proud Versailles![018] Thy glory falls;
    And Nero's terraces desert their walls.
    The vast parterres a thousand hands shall make,
    Lo! Cobham comes and floats them with a lake;
    Or cut wide views through mountains to the plain,
    You'll wish your hill or sheltered seat again.

Pope is in most instances singularly happy in his compliments, but the allusion to STOWE--as
"a work to wonder at"--has rather an equivocal appearance, and so also has the mention of Lord
Cobham, the proprietor of the place. In the first draught of the poem, the name of Bridgeman
was inserted where Cobham's now stands, but as Bridgeman mistook the compliment for a sneer,
the poet thought the landscape-gardener had proved himself undeserving of the intended honor,
and presented the second-hand compliment to the peer. The grounds at Stowe, more praised by
poets than any other private estate in England, extend to 400 acres. There are many other fine
estates in our country of far greater extent, but of less celebrity. Some of them are much
too extensive, perhaps, for true enjoyment. The Earl of Leicester, when he had completed his
seat at Holkham, observed, that "It was a melancholy thing to stand alone in one's country.
I look round; not a house is to be seen but mine. I am the Giant of Giant-castle and have ate
up all my neighbours." The Earl must have felt that the political economy of Goldsmith in his
Deserted Village was not wholly the work of imagination.

    Sweet smiling village!

       *       *       *       *       *

    Where then, ah! where shall poverty reside,
    To scape the pressure of contiguous pride?

"Hearty, cheerful Mr. Cotton," as Lamb calls him, describes Stowe as a Paradise.

ON LORD COBHAM'S GARDEN.

    It puzzles much the sage's brains
    Where Eden stood of yore,
    Some place it in Arabia's plains,
    Some say it is no more.

    But Cobham can these tales confute,
    As all the curious know;
    For he hath proved beyond dispute,
    That Paradise is STOWE.

Thomson also calls the place a paradise:

            Ye Powers
    That o'er the garden and the rural seat
    Preside, which shining through the cheerful land
    In countless numbers blest Britannia sees;
    O, lead me to the wide-extended walks,
    The fair majestic paradise of Stowe!
    Not Persian Cyrus on Ionia's shore
    E'er saw such sylvan scenes; such various art
    By genius fired, such ardent genius tamed
    By cool judicious art, that in the strife
    All-beauteous Nature fears to be out-done.

The poet somewhat mars the effect of this compliment to the charms of Stowe, by making it a
matter of regret that the owner

            His verdant files
    Of ordered trees should here inglorious range,
    Instead of squadrons flaming o'er the field,
    And long embattled hosts.

This representation of rural pursuits as inglorious, a sentiment so out of keeping with his
subject, is soon after followed rather inconsistently, by a sort of paraphrase of Virgil's
celebrated picture of rural felicity, and some of Thomson's own thoughts on the advantages
of a retreat from active life.

    Oh, knew he but his happiness, of men
    The happiest he! Who far from public rage
    Deep in the vale, with a choice few retired
    Drinks the pure pleasures of the rural life, &c.

Then again:--

    Let others brave the flood in quest of gain
    And beat for joyless months, the gloomy wave.
    Let such as deem it glory to destroy,
    Rush into blood, the sack of cities seek;
    Unpierced, exulting in the widow's wail,
    The virgin's shriek and infant's trembling cry.

       *       *       *       *       *

    While he, from all the stormy passions free
    That restless men involve, hears and but hears,
    At distance safe, the human tempest roar,
    Wrapt close in conscious peace. The fall of kings,
    The rage of nations, and the crush of states,
    Move not the man, who from the world escaped,
    In still retreats and flowery solitudes,
    To nature's voice attends, from month to month,
    And day to day, through the revolving year;
    Admiring sees her in her every shape;
    Feels all her sweet emotions at his heart;
    Takes what she liberal gives, nor asks for more.
    He, when young Spring, protudes the bursting gems
    Marks the first bud, and sucks the healthful gale
    Into his freshened soul; her genial hour
    He full enjoys, and not a beauty blows
    And not an opening blossom breathes in vain.

Thomson in his description of Lord Townshend's seat of Rainham--another English estate once
much celebrated and still much admired--exclaims:

    Such are thy beauties, Rainham, such the haunts
    Of angels, in primeval guiltless days
    When man, imparadised, conversed with God.

And Broome after quoting the whole description in his dedication of his own poems to Lord Townshend,
observes, in the old fashioned fulsome strain, "This, my lord, is but a faint picture of the
place of your retirement which no one ever enjoyed more elegantly."[019] "A faint picture!"
What more would the dedicator have wished Thomson to say? Broome, if not contented with his
patron's seat being described as an earthly Paradise, must have desired it to be compared with
Heaven itself, and thus have left his Lordship no hope of the enjoyment of a better place than
he already possessed.

Samuel Boyse, who when without a shirt to his back sat up in his bed to write verses, with
his arms through two holes in his blanket, and when he went into the streets wore paper collars
to conceal the sad deficiency of linen, has a poem of considerable length entitled The Triumphs
of Nature. It is wholly devoted to a description of this magnificent garden,[020] in which,
amongst other architectural ornaments, was a temple dedicated to British worthies, where the
busts of Pope and Congreve held conspicuous places. I may as well give a specimen of the lines
of poor Boyse. Here is his description of that part of Lord Cobham's grounds in which is erected
to the Goddess of Love, a Temple containing a statue of the Venus de Medicis.

    Next to the fair ascent our steps we traced,
    Where shines afar the bold rotunda placed;
    The artful dome Ionic columns bear
    Light as the fabric swells in ambient air.
    Beneath enshrined the Tuscan Venus stands
    And beauty's queen the beauteous scene commands:
    The fond beholder sees with glad surprize,
    Streams glisten, lawns appear, and forests rise--
    Here through thick shades alternate buildings break,
    There through the borders steals the silver lake,
    A soft variety delights the soul,
    And harmony resulting crowns the whole.

Congreve in his Letter in verse addressed to Lord Cobham asks him to

    Tell how his pleasing Stowe employs his time.

It would seem that the proprietor of Stowe took particular interest in the disposition of the
water on his grounds. Congreve enquires

    Or dost thou give the winds afar to blow
    Each vexing thought, and heart-devouring woe,
    And fix thy mind alone on rural scenes,
    To turn the level lawns to liquid plains?
    To raise the creeping rills from humble beds
    And force the latent spring to lift their heads,
    On watery columns, capitals to rear,
    That mix their flowing curls with upper air?

       *       *       *       *       *

    Or slowly walk along the mazy wood
    To meditate on all that's wise and good.

The line:--

    To turn the level lawn to liquid plains--

Will remind the reader of Pope's

    Lo! Cobham comes and floats them with a lake--

And it might be thought that Congreve had taken the hint from the bard of Twickenham if Congreve's
poem had not preceded that of Pope. The one was published in 1729, the other in 1731.

Cowper is in the list of poets who have alluded to "Cobham's groves" and Pope's commemoration
of them.

    And Cobham's groves and Windsor's green retreats
    When Pope describes them have a thousand sweets.

"Magnificence and splendour," says Mr. Whately, the author of Observations on Modern Gardening,
"are the characteristics of Stowe. It is like one of those places celebrated in antiquity which
were devoted to the purposes of religion, and filled with sacred groves, hallowed fountains,
and temples dedicated to several deities; the resort of distant nations and the object of veneration
to half the heathen world: the pomp is, at Stowe, blended with beauty; and the place is equally
distinguished by its amenity and grandeur." Horace Walpole speaks of its "visionary enchantment."
"I have been strolling about in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, from garden to garden," says
Pope in one of his letters, "but still returning to Lord Cobham's with fresh satisfaction."[021]

The grounds at Stowe, until the year 1714, were laid out in the old formal style. Bridgeman
then commenced the improvements and Kent subsequently completed them.

Stowe is now, I believe, in the possession of the Marquis of Chandos, son of the Duke of Buckingham.
It is melancholy to state that the library, the statues, the furniture, and even some of the
timber on the estate, were sold in 1848 to satisfy the creditors of the Duke.

Pope was never tired of improving his own grounds. "I pity you, Sir," said a friend to him,
"because you have now completed every thing belonging to your gardens."[022] "Why," replied
Pope, "I really shall be at a loss for the diversion I used to take in carrying out and finishing
things: I have now nothing left me to do but to add a little ornament or two along the line
of the Thames." I dare say Pope was by no means so near the end of his improvements as he and
his friend imagined. One little change in a garden is sure to suggest or be followed by another.
Garden-improvements are "never ending, still beginning." The late Dr. Arnold, the famous schoolmaster,
writing to a friend, says--"The garden is a constant source of amusement to us both (self and
wife); there are always some little alterations to be made, some few spots where an additional
shrub or two would be ornamental, something coming into blossom; so that I can always delight
to go round and see how things are going on." A garden is indeed a scene of continual change.
Nature, even without the aid of the gardener, has "infinite variety," and supplies "a perpetual
feast of nectared sweets where no crude surfeit reigns."

Spence reports Pope to have said: "I have sometimes had an idea of planting an old gothic cathedral
in trees. Good large poplars, with their white stems, cleared of boughs to a proper height
would serve very well for the columns, and might form the different aisles or peristilliums,
by their different distances and heights. These would look very well near, and the dome rising
all in a proper tuft in the middle would look well at a distance." This sort of verdant architecture
would perhaps have a pleasing effect, but it is rather too much in the artificial style, to
be quite consistent with Pope's own idea of landscape-gardening. And there are other trees
that would form a nobler natural cathedral than the formal poplar. Cowper did not think of
the poplar, when he described a green temple-roof.

    How airy and how light the graceful arch,
    Yet awful as the consecrated roof
    Re-echoing pious anthems.

Almost the only traces of Pope's garden that now remain are the splendid Spanish chesnut-trees
and some elms and cedars planted by the poet himself. A space once laid out in winding walks
and beautiful shrubberies is now a potatoe field! The present proprietor, Mr. Young, is a wholesale
tea-dealer. Even the bones of the poet, it is said, have been disturbed. The skull of Pope,
according to William Howitt, is now in the private collection of a phrenologist! The manner
in which it was obtained, he says, is this:--On some occasion of alteration in the church at
Twickenham, or burial of some one in the same spot, the coffin of Pope was disinterred, and
opened to see the state of the remains. By a bribe of £50 to the Sexton, possession of the
skull was obtained for one night; another skull was then returned instead of the poet's.

It has been stated that the French term Ferme Ornée was first used in England by Shenstone.
It exactly expressed the character of his grounds. Mr. Repton said that he never strolled over
the scenery of the Leasowes without lamenting the constant disappointment to which Shenstone
exposed himself by a vain attempt to unite the incompatible objects of ornament and profit.
The "sneer of the great man." is perhaps an allusion to what Dr. Johnson says of Lord Lyttelton:--that
he "looked with disdain" on "the petty State" of his neighbour. But this is gross exaggeration.
Shenstone was occasionally, indeed, in slight pecuniary difficulties, but he could always have
protected himself from the intrusion of the myrmidons of the law by raising money on his estate;
for it appears that after the payment of all his debts, he left legacies to his friends and
annuities to his servants.

Johnson himself is the most scornful of the critics upon Shenstone's rural pursuits. "The pleasure
of Shenstone," says the Doctor, "was all in his eye: he valued what he valued merely for its
looks. Nothing raised his indignation more than to ask if there were any fishes in his water."
Dr. Johnson would have seen no use in the loveliest piece of running water in the world if
it had contained nothing that he could masticate! On this principle of the valuelessness of
those pleasures which enter the mind through the eye, Dr. Johnson should have blamed the lovers
of painting for dwelling with such fond admiration on the canvas of his friend Sir Joshua Reynolds.
In point of fact, Dr. Johnson had no more sympathy with the genius of the painter or the musician
than with that of the Landscape gardener, for he had neither an eye nor an ear for Art. He
wondered how any man could be such a fool as to be moved to tears by music, and observed, that,
"one could not fill one's belly with hearing soft murmurs or looking at rough cascades." No;
the loveliness of nature does not satisfy the thirst and hunger of the body, but it does satisfy
the thirst and hunger of the soul. No one can find wheaten bread or wine or venison or beef
or plum-pudding or turtle-soup in mere sounds and sights, however exquisite--neither can any
one find such substantial diet within the boards of a book--no not even on the pages of Shakespeare,
or even those of the Bible itself,--but men can find in sweet music and lovely scenery and
good books something infinitely more precious than all the wine, venison, beef, or plum-pudding,
or turtle-soup that could be swallowed during a long life by the most craving and capacious
alderman of London! Man is of a dual nature: he is not all body. He has other and far higher
wants and enjoyments than the purely physical--and these nobler appetites are gratified by
the charms of nature and the creations of inspired genius.

Dr. Johnson's gastronomic allusions to nature recal the old story of a poet pointing out to
a utilitarian friend some white lambs frolicking in a meadow. "Aye," said, the other, "only
think of a quarter of one of them with asparagus and mint sauce!" The story is by some supposed
to have had a Scottish origin, and a prosaic North Briton is made to say that the pretty little
lambs, sporting amidst the daisies and buttercups, would "mak braw pies."

A profound feeling for the beautiful is generally held to be an essential quality in the poet.
It is a curious fact, however, that there are some who aspire to the rank of poet, and have
their claims allowed, who yet cannot be said to be poetical in their nature--for how can that
nature be, strictly speaking, poetical which denies the sentiment of Keats, that

    A thing of beauty is a joy for ever?

Both Scott and Byron very earnestly admired Dr. Johnson's "London" and "The Vanity of Human
Wishes." Yet the sentiments just quoted from the author of those productions are far more characteristic
of a utilitarian philosopher than of one who has been endowed by nature with

    The vision and the faculty divine,

and made capable, like some mysterious enchanter, of

    Clothing the palpable and the familiar
    With golden exhalations of the dawn.

Crabbe, also a prime favorite with the authors of the Lay of the Last Minstrel, and Childe
Harold, is recorded by his biographer--his own son--to have exhibited "a remarkable indifference
to all the proper objects of taste;" to have had "no real love for painting, or music, or architecture
or for what a painter's eye considers as the beauties of landscape." "In botany, grasses, the
most useful but the least ornamental, were his favorites." "He never seemed to be captivated
with the mere beauty of natural objects or even to catch any taste for the arrangement of his
specimens. Within, the house was a kind of scientific confusion; in the garden the usual showy
foreigners gave place to the most scarce flowers, especially to the rarer weeds, of Britain;
and were scattered here and there only for preservation. In fact he neither loved order for
its own sake nor had any very high opinion of that passion in others."[024] Lord Byron described
Crabbe to be

    Though nature's sternest painter, yet the best.

What! was he a better painter of nature than Shakespeare? The truth is that Byron was a wretched
critic, though a powerful poet. His praises and his censures were alike unmeasured.

    His generous ardor no cold medium knew.

He seemed to recognize no great general principles of criticism, but to found all his judgments
on mere prejudice and passion. He thought Cowper "no poet," pronounced Spenser "a dull fellow,"
and placed Pope above Shakespeare. Byron's line on Crabbe is inscribed on the poet's tombstone
at Trowbridge. Perhaps some foreign visitor on reading the inscription may be surprized at
his own ignorance when he learns that it is not the author of Macbeth and Othello that he is
to regard as the best painter of nature that England has produced, but the author of the Parish
Register and the Tales of the Hall. Absurd and indiscriminate laudations of this kind confound
all intellectual distinctions and make criticism ridiculous. Crabbe is unquestionably a vigorous
and truthful writer, but he is not the best we have, in any sense of the word.

Mason, in his English Garden, a poem once greatly admired, but now rarely read, and never perhaps
with much delight, does justice to the taste of the Poet of the Leasowes.

                            Nor, Shenstone, thou
    Shalt pass without thy meed, thou son of peace!
    Who knew'st, perchance, to harmonize thy shades
    Still softer than thy song; yet was that song
    Nor rude nor inharmonious when attuned
    To pastoral plaint, or tale of slighted love.

English pleasure-gardens have been much imitated by the French. Viscomte Girardin, at his estate
of Ermenonville, dedicated an inscription in amusing French-English to the proprietor of the
Leasowes--

    THIS PLAIN STONE
    TO WILLIAM SHENSTONE;
    IN HIS WRITINGS HE DISPLAYED
    A MIND NATURAL;
    AT LEASOWES HE LAID
    ARCADIAN GREENS RURAL.

The Viscomte, though his English composition was so quaint and imperfect, was an elegant writer
in his own language, and showed great taste and skill in laying out his grounds. He had visited
England, and carefully studied our modern style of gardening. He had personally consulted Shenstone,
Mason, Whateley and other English authors on subjects of rural taste. He published an eloquent
description of his own estate. His famous friend Rousseau wrote the preface to it. The book
was translated into English. Rousseau spent his last days at Ermenonville and was buried there
in what is called The Isle of Poplars. The garden is now in a neglected state, but the tomb
of Rousseau remains uninjured, and is frequently visited by the admirers of his genius.

"Dr. Warton," says Bowles, "mentions Milton and Pope as the poets to whom English Landscape
is indebted, but he forgot poor Shenstone." A later writer, however, whose sympathy for genius
communicates such a charm to all his anecdotes and comments in illustration of the literary
character, has devoted a chapter of his Curiosities of Literature to a notice of the rural
tastes of the proprietor of the Leasowes. I must give a brief extract from it.

"When we consider that Shenstone, in developing his fine pastoral ideas in the Leasowes, educated
the nation into that taste for landscape-gardening, which has become the model of all Europe,
this itself constitutes a claim on the gratitude of posterity. Thus the private pleasures of
a man of genius may become at length those of a whole people. The creator of this new taste
appears to have received far less notice than he merited. The name of Shenstone does not appear
in the Essay on Gardening, by Lord Orford; even the supercilious Gray only bestowed a ludicrous
image on these pastoral scenes, which, however, his friend Mason has celebrated; and the genius
of Johnson, incapacitated by nature to touch on objects of rural fancy, after describing some
of the offices of the landscape designer, adds, that 'he will not inquire whether they demand
any great powers of mind.' Johnson, however, conveys to us his own feelings, when he immediately
expresses them under the character of 'a sullen and surly speculator.' The anxious life of
Shenstone would indeed have been remunerated, could he have read the enchanting eulogium of
Whateley on the Leasowes; which, said he, 'is a perfect picture of his mind--simple, elegant
and amiable; and will always suggest a doubt whether the spot inspired his verse, or whether
in the scenes which he formed, he only realised the pastoral images which abound in his songs.'
Yes! Shenstone had been delighted could he have heard that Montesquieu, on his return home,
adorned his 'Chateau Gothique, mais orné de bois charmans, don't j'ai pris l'idée en Angleterre;'
and Shenstone, even with his modest and timid nature, had been proud to have witnessed a noble
foreigner, amidst memorials dedicated to Theocritus and Virgil, to Thomson and Gesner, raising
in his grounds an inscription, in bad English, but in pure taste, to Shenstone himself; for
having displayed in his writings 'a mind natural,' and in his Leasowes 'laid Arcadian greens
rural;' and recently Pindemonte has traced the taste of English gardening to Shenstone. A man
of genius sometimes receives from foreigners, who are placed out of the prejudices of his compatriots,
the tribute of posterity!"

"The Leasowes," says William Howitt, "now belongs to the Atwood family; and a Miss Atwood resides
there occasionally. But the whole place bears the impress of desertion and neglect. The house
has a dull look; the same heavy spirit broods over the lawns and glades: And it is only when
you survey it from a distance, as when approaching Hales-Owen from Hagley, that the whole presents
an aspect of unusual beauty."

Shenstone was at least as proud of his estate of the Leasowes as was Pope of his Twickenham
Villa--perhaps more so. By mere men of the world, this pride in a garden may be regarded as
a weakness, but if it be a weakness it is at least an innocent and inoffensive one, and it
has been associated with the noblest intellectual endowments. Pitt and Fox and Burke and Warren
Hastings were not weak men, and yet were they all extremely proud of their gardens. Every one,
indeed, who takes an active interest in the culture and embellishment of his garden, finds
his pride in it and his love for it increase daily. He is delighted to see it flourish and
improve beneath his care. Even the humble mechanic, in his fondness for a garden, often indicates
a feeling for the beautiful, and a genial nature. If a rich man were openly to boast of his
plate or his equipages, or a literary man of his essays or his sonnets, as lovers of flowers
boast of their geraniums or dahlias or rhododendrons, they would disgust the most indulgent
hearer. But no one is shocked at the exultation of a gardener, amateur or professional, when
in the fulness of his heart he descants upon the unrivalled beauty of his favorite flowers:

    'Plants of his hand, and children of his care.'

"I have made myself two gardens," says Petrarch, "and I do not imagine that they are to be
equalled in all the world. I should feel myself inclined to be angry with fortune if there
were any so beautiful out of Italy." "I wish," says poor Kirke White writing to a friend, "I
wish you to have a taste of these (rural) pleasures with me, and if ever I should live to be
blessed with a quiet parsonage, and another great object of my ambition--a garden, I have no
doubt but we shall be for some short intervals at least two quite contented bodies." The poet
Young, in the latter part of his life, after years of vain hopes and worldly struggles, gave
himself up almost entirely to the sweet seclusion of a garden; and that peace and repose which
cannot be found in courts and political cabinets, he found at last

                            In sunny garden bowers
    Where vernal winds each tree's low tones awaken,
    And buds and bells with changes mark the hours.

He discovered that it was more profitable to solicit nature than to flatter the great.

                    For Nature never did betray
    The heart that loved her.

People of a poetical temperament--all true lovers of nature--can afford, far better than more
essentially worldly beings, to exclaim with Thomson.

The pride in a garden laid out under one's own directions and partly cultivated by one's own
hand has been alluded to as in some degree unworthy of the dignity of manhood, not only by
mere men of the world, or silly coxcombs, but by people who should have known better. Even
Sir William Temple, though so enthusiastic about his fruit-trees, tells us that he will not
enter upon any account of flowers, having only pleased himself with seeing or smelling them,
and not troubled himself with the care of them, which he observes "is more the ladies part
than the men's." Sir William makes some amends for this almost contemptuous allusion to flowers
in particular by his ardent appreciation of the use of gardens and gardening in general. Again:
"As gardening has been the inclination of kings and the choice of philosophers, so it has been
the common favorite of public and private men, a pleasure of the greatest and the care of the
meanest; and indeed an employment and a possession for which no man is too high or too low."
This is just and liberal; though I can hardly help still feeling a little sore at Sir William's
having implied in the passage previously quoted, that the care of flowers is but a feminine
occupation. As an elegant amusement, it is surely equally well fitted for all lovers of the
beautiful, without reference to their sex.

It is not women and children only who delight in flower-gardens. Lord Bacon and William Pitt
and the Earl of Chatham and Fox and Burke and Warren Hastings--all lovers of flowers--were
assuredly not men of frivolous minds or of feminine habits. They were always eager to exhibit
to visitors the beauty of their parterres. In his declining years the stately John Kemble left
the stage for his garden. That sturdy English yeoman, William Cobbett, was almost as proud
of his beds of flowers as of the pages of his Political Register. He thus speaks of gardening:

"Gardening is a source of much greater profit than is generally imagined; but, merely as an
amusement or recreation it is a thing of very great value. It is not only compatible with but
favorable to the study of any art or science; it is conducive to health by means of the irresistible
temptation which it offers to early rising; to the stirring abroad upon one's legs, for a man
may really ride till he cannot walk, sit till he cannot stand, and lie abed till he cannot
get up. It tends to turn the minds of youth from amusements and attachments of a frivolous
and vicious nature, it is a taste which is indulged at home; it tends to make home pleasant,
and to endear to us the spot on which it is our lot to live,--and as to the expenses attending
it, what are all these expenses compared with those of the short, the unsatisfactory, the injurious
enjoyment of the card-table, and the rest of those amusements which are sought from the town."
Cobbett's English Gardener.

"Other fine arts," observes Lord Kames, "may be perverted to excite irregular and even vicious
emotions: but gardening, which inspires the purest and most refined pleasures, cannot fail
to promote every good affection. The gaiety and harmony of mind it produceth, inclining the
spectator to communicate his satisfaction to others, and to make them happy as he is himself,
tend naturally to establish in him a habit of humanity and benevolence."

Every thoughtful mind knows how much the face of nature has to do with human happiness. In
the open air and in the midst of summer-flowers, we often feel the truth of the observation
that "a fair day is a kind of sensual pleasure, and of all others the most innocent." But it
is also something more, and better. It kindles a spiritual delight. At such a time and in such
a scene every observer capable of a religious emotion is ready to exclaim--

    Oh! there is joy and happiness in every thing I see,
    Which bids my soul rise up and bless the God that blesses me

Anon.

The amiable and pious Doctor Carey of Serampore, in whose grounds sprang up that dear little
English daisy so beautifully addressed by his poetical proxy, James Montgomery of Sheffield,
in the stanzas commencing:--

    Thrice welcome, little English flower!
    My mother country's white and red--

was so much attached to his Indian garden, that it was always in his heart in the intervals
of more important cares. It is said that he remembered it even upon his death-bed, and that
it was amongst his last injunctions to his friends that they should see to its being kept up
with care. He was particularly anxious that the hedges or railings should always be in such
good order as to protect his favorite shrubs and flowers from the intrusion of Bengalee cattle.

A garden is a more interesting possession than a gallery of pictures or a cabinet of curiosities.
Its glories are never stationary or stale. It has infinite variety. It is not the same to-day
as it was yesterday. It is always changing the character of its charms and always increasing
them in number. It delights all the senses. Its pleasures are not of an unsocial character;
for every visitor, high or low, learned or illiterate, may be fascinated with the fragrance
and beauty of a garden. But shells and minerals and other curiosities are for the man of science
and the connoisseur. And a single inspection of them is generally sufficient: they never change
their aspect. The Picture-Gallery may charm an instructed eye but the multitude have little
relish for human Art, because they rarely understand it:--while the skill of the Great Limner
of Nature is visible in every flower of the garden even to the humblest swain.

It is pleasant to read how the wits and beauties of the time of Queen Anne used to meet together
in delightful garden-retreats, 'like the companies in Boccaccio's Decameron or in one of Watteau's
pictures.' Ritchings Lodge, for instance, the seat of Lord Bathurst, was visited by most of
the celebrities of England, and frequently exhibited bright groups of the polite and accomplished
of both sexes; of men distinguished for their heroism or their genius, and of women eminent
for their easy and elegant conversation, or for gaiety and grace of manner, or perfect loveliness
of face and form--all in harmonious union with the charms of nature. The gardens at Ritchings
were enriched with Inscriptions from the pens of Congreve and Pope and Gay and Addison and
Prior. When the estate passed into the possession of the Earl of Hertford, his literary lady
devoted it to the Muses. "She invited every summer," says Dr. Johnson, "some poet into the
country to hear her verses and assist her studies." Thomson, who praises her so lavishly in
his "Spring," offended her ladyship by allowing her too clearly to perceive that he was resolved
not to place himself in the dilemma of which Pope speaks so feelingly with reference to other
poetasters.

    Seized and tied down to judge, how wretched I,
    Who can't be silent, and who will not lie.
    I sit with sad civility, I read
    With honest anguish and an aching head.

But though "the bard more fat than bard beseems" was restive under her ladyship's "poetical
operations," and too plainly exhibited a desire to escape the infliction, preferring the Earl's
claret to the lady's rhymes, she should have been a little more generously forgiving towards
one who had already made her immortal. It is stated, that she never repeated her invitation
to the Poet of the Seasons, who though so impatient of the sound of her tongue when it "rolled"
her own "raptures," seems to have been charmed with her at a distance--while meditating upon
her excellencies in the seclusion of his own study. The compliment to the Countess is rather
awkwardly wedged in between descriptions of "gentle Spring" with her "shadowing roses" and
"surly Winter" with his "ruffian blasts." It should have commenced the poem.

    O Hertford, fitted or to shine in courts
    With unaffected grace, or walk the plain,
    With innocence and meditation joined
    In soft assemblage, listen to my song,
    Which thy own season paints; when nature all
    Is blooming and benevolent like thee.

Thomson had no objection to strike off a brief compliment in verse, but he was too indolent
to keep up in propriâ personâ an incessant fire of compliments, like the bon bons at a Carnival.
It was easier to write her praises than listen to her verses. Shenstone seems to have been
more pliable. He was personally obsequious, lent her recitations an attentive ear, and was
ever ready with the expected commendation. It is not likely that her ladyship found much, difficulty
in collecting around her a crowd of critics more docile than Thomson and quite as complaisant
as Shenstone. Let but a Countess

            Once own the happy lines,
    How the wit brightens, how the style refines!

Though Thomson's first want on his arrival in London from the North was a pair of shoes, and
he lived for a time in great indigence, he was comfortable enough at last. Lord Lyttleton introduced
him to the Prince of Wales (who professed himself the patron of literature) and when his Highness
questioned him about the state of his affairs, Thomson assured him that they "were in a more
poetical posture than formerly." The prince bestowed upon the poet a pension of a hundred pounds
a year, and when his friend Lord Lyttleton was in power his Lordship obtained for him the office
of Surveyor General of the Leeward Islands. He sent a deputy there who was more trustworthy
than Thomas Moore's at Bermuda. Thomson's deputy after deducting his own salary remitted his
principal three hundred pounds per annum, so that the bard 'more fat than bard beseems' was
not in a condition to grow thinner, and could afford to make his cottage a Castle of Indolence.
Leigh Hunt has versified an anecdote illustrative of Thomson's luxurious idleness. He who could
describe "Indolence" so well, and so often appeared in the part himself,

            Slippered, and with hands,
    Each in a waistcoat pocket, (so that all
    Might yet repose that could) was seen one morn
    Eating a wondering peach from off the tree.

A little summer-house at Richmond which Thomson made his study is still preserved, and even
some articles of furniture, just as he left them.[025] Over the entrance is erected a tablet
on which is the following inscription:

    HERE
    THOMSON SANG
    THE SEASONS
    AND THEIR CHANGE.

Thomson was buried in Richmond Church. Collins's lines to his memory, beginning

    In yonder grave a Druid lies,

are familiar to all readers of English poetry.

Richmond Hill has always been the delight not of poets only but of painters. Sir Joshua Reynolds
built a house there, and one of the only three landscapes which seem to have survived him,
is a view from the window of his drawing-room. Gainsborough was also a resident in Richmond.
Richmond gardens laid out or rather altered by Brown, are now united with those of Kew.

Savage resided for some time at Richmond. Wordsworth composed a poem upon the Thames near Richmond
in remembrance of Collins. Here is a stanza of it.

    Glide gently, thus for ever glide,
    O Thames, that other bards may see
    As lovely visions by thy side
    As now fair river! come to me;
    O glide, fair stream for ever so,
    Thy quiet soul on all bestowing,
    Till all our minds for ever flow
    As thy deep waters now are flowing.

Thomson's description of the scenery of Richmond Hill perhaps hardly does it justice, but the
lines are too interesting to be omitted.

            Say, shall we wind
    Along the streams? or walk the smiling mead?
    Or court the forest-glades? or wander wild
    Among the waving harvests? or ascend,
    While radiant Summer opens all its pride,
    Thy hill, delightful Shene[026]? Here let us sweep
    The boundless landscape now the raptur'd eye,
    Exulting swift, to huge Augusta send,
    Now to the sister hills[027] that skirt her plain,
    To lofty Harrow now, and now to where
    Majestic Windsor lifts his princely brow
    In lovely contrast to this glorious view
    Calmly magnificent, then will we turn
    To where the silver Thames first rural grows
    There let the feasted eye unwearied stray,
    Luxurious, there, rove through the pendent woods
    That nodding hang o'er Harrington's retreat,
    And stooping thence to Ham's embowering walks,
    Beneath whose shades, in spotless peace retir'd,
    With her the pleasing partner of his heart,
    The worthy Queensbury yet laments his Gay,
    And polish'd Cornbury woos the willing Muse
    Slow let us trace the matchless vale of Thames
    Fair winding up to where the Muses haunt
    In Twit nam's bowers, and for their Pope implore
    The healing god[028], to loyal Hampton's pile,
    To Clermont's terrass'd height, and Esher's groves;
    Where in the sweetest solitude, embrac'd
    By the soft windings of the silent Mole,
    From courts and senates Pelham finds repose
    Enchanting vale! beyond whate'er the Muse
    Has of Achaia or Hesperia sung!
    O vale of bliss! O softly swelling hills!
    On which the Power of Cultivation lies,
    And joys to see the wonders of his toil.

The Revd. Thomas Maurice wrote a poem entitled Richmond Hill, but it contains nothing deserving
of quotation after the above passage from Thomson. In the English Bards and Scotch Reviewers
the labors of Maurice are compared to those of Sisyphus

    So up thy hill, ambrosial Richmond, heaves
    Dull Maurice, all his granite weight of leaves.

Towards the latter part of the last century the Empress of Russia (Catherine the Second) expressed
in a French letter to Voltaire her admiration of the style of English Gardening.[029] "I love
to distraction," she writes, "the present English taste in gardening. Their curved lines, their
gentle slopes, their pieces of water in the shape of lakes, their picturesque little islands.
I have a great contempt for straight lines and parallel walks. I hate those fountains which
torture water into forms unknown to nature. I have banished all the statues to the vestibules
and to the galleries. In a word English taste predominates in my plantomanie."[030]

I omitted when alluding to those Englishmen in past times who anticipated the taste of the
present day in respect to laying out grounds, to mention the ever respected name of John Evelyn,
and as all other writers before me, I believe, who have treated upon gardening, have been guilty
of the same oversight, I eagerly make his memory some slight amends by quoting the following
passage from one of his letters to his friend Sir Thomas Browne.

"I might likewise hope to refine upon some particulars, especially concerning the ornaments
of gardens, which I shall endeavor so to handle as that they may become useful and practicable,
as well as magnificent, and that persons of all conditions and faculties, which delight in
gardens, may therein encounter something for their owne advantage. The modell, which I perceive
you have seene, will aboundantly testifie my abhorrency of those painted and formal projections
of our cockney gardens and plotts, which appeare like gardens of past-board and marchpane,
and smell more of paynt then of flowers and verdure; our drift is a noble, princely, and universal
Elysium, capable of all the amoenities that can naturally be introduced into gardens of pleasure,
and such as may stand in competition with all the august designes and stories of this nature,
either of antient or moderne tymes; yet so as to become useful and significant to the least
pretences and faculties. We will endeavour to shew how the air and genious of gardens operat
upon humane spirits towards virtue and sanctitie: I mean in a remote, preparatory and instrumentall
working. How caves, grotts, mounts, and irregular ornaments of gardens do contribute to contemplative
and philosophicall enthusiasme; how elysium, antrum, nemus, paradysus, hortus, lucus, &c.,
signifie all of them rem sacram it divinam; for these expedients do influence the soule and
spirits of men, and prepare them for converse with good angells; besides which, they contribute
to the lesse abstracted pleasures, phylosophy naturall; and longevitie: and I would have not
onely the elogies and effigie of the antient and famous garden heroes, but a society of the
paradisi cultores persons of antient simplicity, Paradisean and Hortulan saints, to be a society
of learned and ingenuous men, such as Dr. Browne, by whome we might hope to redeeme the tyme
that has bin lost, in pursuing Vulgar Errours, and still propagating them, as so many bold
men do yet presume to do."

The English style of landscape-gardening being founded on natural principles must be recognized
by true taste in all countries. Even in Rome, when art was most allowed to predominate over
nature, there were occasional instances of that correct feeling for rural beauty which the
English during the last century and a half have exhibited more conspicuously than other nations.
Atticus preferred Tully's villa at Arpinum to all his other villas; because at Arpinum, Nature
predominated over art. Our Kents and Browns[031] never expressed a greater contempt, than was
expressed by Atticus, for all formal and artificial decorations of natural scenery.

The spot where Cicero's villa stood, was, in the time of Middleton, possessed by a convent
of monks and was called the Villa of St. Dominic. It was built, observes Mr. Dunlop, in the
year 1030, from the fragments of the Arpine Villa!

    Art, glory, Freedom, fail--but Nature still is fair.

"Nothing," says Mr. Kelsall, "can be imagined finer than the surrounding landscape. The deep
azure of the sky, unvaried by a single cloud--Sora on a rock at the foot of the precipitous
Appennines--both banks of the Garigliano covered with vineyards--the fragor aquarum, alluded
to by Atticus in his work De Legibus--the coolness, the rapidity and ultramarine hue of the
Fibrenus--the noise of its cataracts--the rich turquoise color of the Liris--the minor Appennines
round Arpino, crowned with umbrageous oaks to the very summits--present scenery hardly elsewhere
to be equalled, certainly not to be surpassed, even in Italy."

This description of an Italian landscape can hardly fail to charm the imagination of the coldest
reader; but after all, I cannot help confessing to so inveterate a partiality for dear old
England as to be delighted with the compliment which Gray, the poet, pays to English scenery
when he prefers it to the scenery of Italy.

Sir Walter Scott, with all his patriotic love for his own romantic land, could not withhold
his tribute to the loveliness of Richmond Hill,--its "unrivalled landscape" its "sea of verdure."

    "They" (The Duke of Argyle and Jeanie Deans) "paused for a
    moment on the brow of a hill, to gaze on the unrivalled
    landscape it presented. A huge sea of verdure, with crossing and
    intersecting promontories of massive and tufted groves was
    tenanted by numberless flocks and herds which seemed to wander
    unrestrained and unbounded through the rich pastures. The
    Thames, here turreted with villas, and there garlanded with
    forests, moved on slowly and placidly, like the mighty monarch
    of the scene, to whom all its other beauties were but
    accessaries, and bore on its bosom an hundred barks and skiffs
    whose white sails and gaily fluttering pennons gave life to the
    whole." The Heart of Mid-Lothian.

It must of course be admitted that there are grander, more sublime, more varied and extensive
prospects in other countries, but it would be difficult to persuade me that the richness of
English verdure could be surpassed or even equalled, or that any part of the world can exhibit
landscapes more truly lovely and loveable, than those of England, or more calculated to leave
a deep and enduring impression upon the heart. Mr. Kelsall speaks of an Italian sky "uncovered
by a single cloud," but every painter and poet knows how much variety and beauty of effect
are bestowed upon hill and plain and grove and river by passing clouds; and even our over-hanging
vapours remind us of the veil upon the cheek of beauty; and ever as the sun uplifts the darkness
the glory of the landscape seems renewed and freshened. It would cheer the saddest heart and
send the blood dancing through the veins, to behold after a dull misty dawn, the sun break
out over Richmond Hill, and with one broad light make the whole landscape smile; but I have
been still more interested in the prospect when on a cloudy day the whole "sea of verdure"
has been swayed to and fro into fresher life by the fitful breeze, while the lights and shadows
amidst the foliage and on the lawns have been almost momentarily varied by the varying sky.
These changes fascinate the eye, keep the soul awake, and save the scenery from the comparatively
monotonous character of landscapes in less varying climes. And for my own part, I cordially
echo the sentiment of Wordsworth, who when conversing with Mrs. Hemans about the scenery of
the Lakes in the North of England, observed: "I would not give up the mists that spiritualize
our mountains for all the blue skies of Italy."

Though Mrs. Stowe, the American authoress already quoted as one of the admirers of England,
duly appreciates the natural grandeur of her own land, she was struck with admiration and delight
at the aspect of our English landscapes. Our trees, she observes, "are of an order of nobility
and they wear their crowns right kingly." "Leaving out of account," she adds, "our mammoth
arboria, the English Parks have trees as fine and effective as ours, and when I say their trees
are of an order of nobility, I mean that they (the English) pay a reverence to them such as
their magnificence deserves."

Walter Savage Landor, one of the most accomplished and most highly endowed both by nature and
by fortune of our living men of letters, has done, or rather has tried to do, almost as much
for his country in the way of enriching its collection of noble trees as Evelyn himself. He
laid out £70,000 on the improvement of an estate in Monmouthshire, where he planted and fenced
half a million of trees, and had a million more ready to plant, when the conduct of some of
his tenants, who spitefully uprooted them and destroyed the whole plantation, so disgusted
him with the place, that he razed to the ground the house which had cost him £8,000, and left
the country. He then purchased a beautiful estate in Italy, which is still in possession of
his family. He himself has long since returned to his native land. Landor loves Italy, but
he loves England better. In one of his Imaginary Conversations he tells an Italian nobleman:

"The English are more zealous of introducing new fruits, shrubs and plants, than other nations;
you Italians are less so than any civilized one. Better fruit is eaten in Scotland than in
the most fertile and cultivated parts of your peninsula. As for flowers, there is a greater
variety in the worst of our fields than in the best of your gardens. As for shrubs, I have
rarely seen a lilac, a laburnum, a mezereon, in any of them, and yet they flourish before almost
every cottage in our poorest villages."

"We wonder in England, when we hear it related by travellers, that peaches in Italy are left
under the trees for swine; but, when we ourselves come into the country, our wonder is rather
that the swine do not leave them for animals less nice."

Landor acknowledges that he has eaten better pears and cherries in Italy than in England, but
that all the other kinds of fruitage in Italy appeared to him unfit for dessert.

The most celebrated of the private estates of the present day in England is Chatsworth, the
seat of the Duke of Devonshire. The mansion, called the Palace of the Peak, is considered one
of the most splendid residences in the land. The grounds are truly beautiful and most carefully
attended to. The elaborate waterworks are perhaps not in the severest taste. Some of them are
but costly puerilities. There is a water-work in the form of a tree that sends a shower from
every branch on the unwary visitor, and there are snakes that spit forth jets upon him as he
retires. This is silly trifling: but ill adapted to interest those who have passed their teens;
and not at all an agreeable sort of hospitality in a climate like that of England. It is in
the style of the water-works at Versailles, where wooden soldiers shoot from their muskets
vollies of water at the spectators.[032]

It was an old English custom on certain occasions to sprinkle water over the company at a grand
entertainment. Bacon, in his Essay on Masques, seems to object to getting drenched, when he
observes that "some sweet odours suddenly coming forth, without any drops falling, are in such
a company as there is steam and heat, things of great pleasure and refreshment." It was a custom
also of the ancient Greeks and Romans to sprinkle their guests with fragrant waters. The Gascons
had once the same taste: "At times," says Montaigne, "from the bottom of the stage, they caused
sweet-scented waters to spout upwards and dart their thread to such a prodigious height, as
to sprinkle and perfume the vast multitudes of spectators." The Native gentry of India always
slightly sprinkle their visitors with rose-water. It is flung from a small silver utensil tapering
off into a sort of upright spout with a pierced top in the fashion of that part of a watering
pot which English gardeners call the rose.

The finest of the water-works at Chatsworth is one called the Emperor Fountain which throws
up a jet 267 feet high. This height exceeds that of any fountain in Europe. There is a vast
Conservatory on the estate, built of glass by Sir Joseph Paxton, who designed and constructed
the Crystal Palace. His experience in the building of conservatories no doubt suggested to
him the idea of the splendid glass edifice in Hyde Park. The conservatory at Chatsworth required
70,000 square feet of glass. Four miles of iron tubing are used in heating the building. There
is a broad carriage way running right through the centre of the conservatory.[033] This conservatory
is peculiarly rich in exotic plants of all kinds, collected at an enormous cost. This most
princely estate, contrasted with the little cottages and cottage-gardens in the neighbourhood,
suggested to Wordsworth the following sonnet.

CHATSWORTH.

    Chatsworth! thy stately mansion, and the pride
    Of thy domain, strange contrast do present
    To house and home in many a craggy tent
    Of the wild Peak, where new born waters glide
    Through fields whose thrifty occupants abide
    As in a dear and chosen banishment
    With every semblance of entire content;
    So kind is simple Nature, fairly tried!
    Yet he whose heart in childhood gave his troth
    To pastoral dales, then set with modest farms,
    May learn, if judgment strengthen with his growth,
    That not for Fancy only, pomp hath charms;
    And, strenuous to protect from lawless harms
    The extremes of favored life, may honour both.

The two noblest of modern public gardens in England are those at Kensington and Kew. Kensington
Gardens were begun by King William the III, but were originally only twenty-six acres in extent.
Queen Anne added thirty acres more. The grounds were laid out by the well-known garden-designers,
London and Wise.[034] Queen Caroline, who formed the Serpentine River by connecting several
detached pieces of water into one, and set the example of a picturesque deviation from the
straight line,[035] added from Hyde Park no less than three hundred acres which were laid out
by Bridgeman. This was a great boon to the Londoners. Horace Walpole says that Queen Caroline
at first proposed to shut up St. James's Park and convert it into a private garden for herself,
but when she asked Sir Robert Walpole what it would cost, he answered--"Only three Crowns."
This changed her intentions.

The reader of Pope will remember an allusion to the famous Ring in Hyde Park. The fair Belinda
was sometimes attended there by her guardian Sylphs:

    The light militia of the lower sky.

They guarded her from 'the white-gloved beaux,'

    These though unseen are ever on the wing,
    Hang o'er the box, and hover o'er the Ring.

It was here that the gallantries of the "Merry Monarch" were but too often exhibited to his people.

The Gardens at Kew "Imperial Kew," as Darwin styles it, are the richest in the world. They
consist of one hundred and seventy acres. They were once private gardens, and were long in
the possession of Royalty, until the accession of Queen Victoria, who opened the gardens to
the public and placed them under the control of the Commissioners of Her Majesty's Woods and
Forests, "with a view of rendering them available to the general good."

            She hath left you all her walks,
    Her private arbors and new planted orchards
    On this side Tiber. She hath left them you
    And to your heirs for ever; common pleasures
    To walk abroad and recreate yourselves.

They contain a large Palm-house built in 1848.[036] The extent of glass for covering the building
is said to be 360,000 square feet. My Mahomedan readers in Hindostan, (I hope they will be
numerous,) will perhaps be pleased to hear that there is an ornamental mosque in these gardens.
On each of the doors of this mosque is an Arabic inscription in golden characters, taken from
the Koran. The Arabic has been thus translated:--

    LET THERE BE NO FORCE IN RELIGION.
    THERE IS NO OTHER GOD EXCEPT THE DEITY.
    MAKE NOT ANY LIKENESS UNTO GOD.

The first sentence of the translation is rather ambiguously worded. The sentiment has even
an impious air: an apparent meaning very different from that which was intended. Of course
the original text means, though the English translator has not expressed that meaning--"Let
there be no force used in religion."

When William Cobbett was a boy of eleven years of age he worked in the garden of the Bishop
of Winchester at Farnham. Having heard much of Kew gardens he resolved to change his locality
and his master. He started off for Kew, a distance of about thirty miles, with only thirteen
pence in his pocket. The head gardener at Kew at once engaged his services. A few days after,
George the Fourth, then Prince of Wales, saw the boy sweeping the lawns, and laughed heartily
at his blue smock frock and long red knotted garters. But the poor gardener's boy became a
public writer, whose productions were not exactly calculated to excite the merriment of princes.

Most poets have a painter's eye for the disposition of forms and colours. Kent's practice as
a painter no doubt helped to make him what he was as a landscape-gardener. When an architect
was consulted about laying out the grounds at Blenheim he replied, "you must send for a landscape-painter:"
he might have added--"or a poet."

Our late Laureate, William Wordsworth, exhibited great taste in his small garden at Rydal Mount.
He said of himself--very truly though not very modestly perhaps,--but modesty was never Wordsworth's
weakness--that nature seemed to have fitted him for three callings--that of the poet, the critic
on works of art, and the landscape-gardener. The poet's nest--(Mrs. Hemans calls it 'a lovely
cottage-like building'[037])--is almost hidden in a rich profusion of roses and ivy and jessamine
and virginia-creeper. Wordsworth, though he passionately admired the shapes and hues of flowers,
knew nothing of their fragrance. In this respect knowledge at one entrance was quite shut out.
He had possessed at no time of his life the sense of smell. To make up for this deficiency,
he is said (by De Quincey) to have had "a peculiar depth of organic sensibility of form and color."

Mr. Justice Coleridge tells us that Wordsworth dealt with shrubs, flower-beds and lawns with
the readiness of a practised landscape-gardener, and that it was curious to observe how he
had imparted a portion of his taste to his servant, James Dixon. In fact, honest James regarded
himself as a sort of Arbiter Elegantiarum. The master and his servant often discussed together
a question of taste. Wordsworth communicated to Mr. Justice Coleridge how "he and James" were
once "in a puzzle" about certain discolored spots upon the lawn. "Cover them with soap-lees,"
said the master. "That will make the green there darker than the rest," said the gardener.
"Then we must cover the whole." "That will not do," objects the gardener, "with reference to
the little lawn to which you pass from this." "Cover that," said the poet. "You will then,"
replied the gardener, "have an unpleasant contrast with the foliage surrounding it."

Pope too had communicated to his gardener at Twickenham something of his own taste. The man,
long after his master's death, in reference to the training of the branches of plants, used
to talk of their being made to hang "something poetical".

It would have grieved Shakespeare and Pope and Shenstone had they anticipated the neglect or
destruction of their beloved retreats. I hope no Englishman meditating to reside on the grounds
now sacred to the memory of a national poet will ever forget these words of the poet or treat
his cottage and garden at Rydal Mount as some of Pope's countrymen have treated the house and
grounds at Twickenham.[038] It would be sad indeed to hear, after this, that any one had refused
to spare the Poor Robins and wild geraniums of Rydal Mount. Miss Jewsbury has a poem descriptive
of "the Poet's Home." I must give the first stanza:--

WORDSWORTH'S COTTAGE.

    Low and white, yet scarcely seen
    Are its walls of mantling green;
    Not a window lets in light
    But through flowers clustering bright,
    Not a glance may wander there
    But it falls on something fair;
    Garden choice and fairy mound
    Only that no elves are found;
    Winding walk and sheltered nook
    For student grave and graver book,
    Or a bird-like bower perchance
    Fit for maiden and romance.

Another lady-poet has poured forth in verse her admiration of

THE RESIDENCE OF WORDSWORTH.

    Not for the glory on their heads
      Those stately hill-tops wear,
    Although the summer sunset sheds
      Its constant crimson there:
    Not for the gleaming lights that break
    The purple of the twilight lake,
      Half dusky and half fair,
    Does that sweet valley seem to be
    A sacred place on earth to me.

    The influence of a moral spell
      Is found around the scene,
    Giving new shadows to the dell,
      New verdure to the green.
    With every mountain-top is wrought
    The presence of associate thought,
      A music that has been;
    Calling that loveliness to life,
    With which the inward world is rife.

    His home--our English poet's home--
      Amid these hills is made;
    Here, with the morning, hath he come,
      There, with the night delayed.
    On all things is his memory cast,
    For every place wherein he past,
      Is with his mind arrayed,
    That, wandering in a summer hour,
    Asked wisdom of the leaf and flower.

L.E.L.

The cottage and garden of the poet are not only picturesque and delightful in themselves, but
from their position in the midst of some of the finest scenery of England. One of the writers
in the book entitled 'The Land we Live in' observes that the bard of the mountains and the
lakes could not have found a more fitting habitation had the whole land been before him, where
to choose his place of rest. "Snugly sheltered by the mountains, embowered among trees, and
having in itself prospects of surpassing beauty, it also lies in the midst of the very noblest
objects in the district, and in one of the happiest social positions. The grounds are delightful
in every respect; but one view--that from the terrace of moss-like grass--is, to our thinking,
the most exquisitely graceful in all this land of beauty. It embraces the whole valley of Windermere,
with hills on either side softened into perfect loveliness."

Eustace, the Italian tourist, seems inclined to deprive the English of the honor of being the
first cultivators of the natural style in gardening, and thinks that it was borrowed not from
Milton but from Tasso. I suppose that most genuine poets, in all ages and in all countries,
when they give full play to the imagination, have glimpses of the truly natural in the arts.
The reader will probably be glad to renew his acquaintance with Tasso's description of the
garden of Armida. I shall give the good old version of Edward Fairfax from the edition of 1687.
Fairfax was a true poet and wrote musically at a time when sweetness of versification was not
so much aimed at as in a later day. Waller confessed that he owed the smoothness of his verse
to the example of Fairfax, who, as Warton observes, "well vowelled his lines."

THE GARDEN OF ARMIDA.

    When they had passed all those troubled ways,
    The Garden sweet spread forth her green to shew;
    The moving crystal from the fountains plays;
    Fair trees, high plants, strange herbs and flowerets new,
    Sunshiny hills, vales hid from Phoebus' rays,
    Groves, arbours, mossie caves at once they view,
      And that which beauty most, most wonder brought,
      No where appear'd the Art which all this wrought.

    So with the rude the polished mingled was,
    That natural seem'd all and every part,
    Nature would craft in counterfeiting pass,
    And imitate her imitator Art:
    Mild was the air, the skies were clear as glass,
    The trees no whirlwind felt, nor tempest's smart,
      But ere the fruit drop off, the blossom comes,
      This springs, that falls, that ripeneth and this blooms.

    The leaves upon the self-same bough did hide,
    Beside the young, the old and ripened fig,
    Here fruit was green, there ripe with vermeil side;
    The apples new and old grew on one twig,
    The fruitful vine her arms spread high and wide,
    That bended underneath their clusters big;
      The grapes were tender here, hard, young and sour,
      There purple ripe, and nectar sweet forth pour.

    The joyous birds, hid under green-wood shade,
    Sung merry notes on every branch and bow,
    The wind that in the leaves and waters plaid
    With murmer sweet, now sung and whistled now;
    Ceaséd the birds, the wind loud answer made:
    And while they sung, it rumbled soft and low;
      Thus were it hap or cunning, chance or art,
      The wind in this strange musick bore his part.

    With party-coloured plumes and purple bill,
    A wondrous bird among the rest there flew,
    That in plain speech sung love-lays loud and shrill,
    Her leden was like humane language true;
    So much she talkt, and with such wit and skill,
    That strange it seeméd how much good she knew;
      Her feathered fellows all stood hush to hear,
      Dumb was the wind, the waters silent were.

    The gently budding rose (quoth she) behold,
    That first scant peeping forth with virgin beams,
    Half ope, half shut, her beauties doth upfold
    In their dear leaves, and less seen, fairer seems,
    And after spreads them forth more broad and bold,
    Then languisheth and dies in last extreams,
      Nor seems the same, that deckéd bed and bower
      Of many a lady late, and paramour.

    So, in the passing of a day, doth pass
    The bud and blossom of the life of man,
    Nor ere doth flourish more, but like the grass
    Cut down, becometh wither'd, pale and wan:
    O gather then the rose while time thou hast,
    Short is the day, done when it scant began;
      Gather the rose of love, while yet thou may'st
      Loving be lov'd; embracing, be embrac'd.

    He ceas'd, and as approving all he spoke,
    The quire of birds their heav'nly tunes renew,
    The turtles sigh'd, and sighs with kisses broke,
    The fowls to shades unseen, by pairs withdrew;
    It seem'd the laurel chaste, and stubborn oak,
    And all the gentle trees on earth that grew,
      It seem'd the land, the sea, and heav'n above,
      All breath'd out fancy sweet, and sigh'd out love.

Godfrey of Bulloigne

I must place near the garden of Armida, Ariosto's garden of Alcina. "Ariosto," says Leigh Hunt,
"cared for none of the pleasures of the great, except building, and was content in Cowley's
fashion, with "a small house in a large garden." He loved gardening better than he understood
it, was always shifting his plants, and destroying the seeds, out of impatience to see them
germinate. He was rejoicing once on the coming up of some "capers" which he had been visiting
every day, to see how they got on, when it turned out that his capers were elder trees!"

THE GARDEN OF ALCINA.

    'A more delightful place, wherever hurled,
      Through the whole air, Rogero had not found;
    And had he ranged the universal world,
      Would not have seen a lovelier in his round,
    Than that, where, wheeling wide, the courser furled
      His spreading wings, and lighted on the ground
    Mid cultivated plain, delicious hill,
      Moist meadow, shady bank, and crystal rill;

    'Small thickets, with the scented laurel gay,
      Cedar, and orange, full of fruit and flower,
    Myrtle and palm, with interwoven spray,
      Pleached in mixed modes, all lovely, form a bower;
    And, breaking with their shade the scorching ray,
      Make a cool shelter from the noon-tide hour.
    And nightingales among those branches wing
      Their flight, and safely amorous descants sing.

    'Amid red roses and white lilies there,
      Which the soft breezes freshen as they fly,
    Secure the cony haunts, and timid hare,
      And stag, with branching forehead broad and high.
    These, fearless of the hunter's dart or snare,
      Feed at their ease, or ruminating lie;
    While, swarming in those wilds, from tuft or steep,
      Dun deer or nimble goat disporting leap.'

Rose's Orlando Furioso.

Spenser's description of the garden of Adonis is too long to give entire, but I shall quote
a few stanzas. The old story on which Spenser founds his description is told with many variations
of circumstance and meaning; but we need not quit the pages of the Faerie Queene to lose ourselves
amidst obscure mythologies. We have too much of these indeed even in Spenser's own version
of the fable.

THE GARDEN OF ADONIS.

      Great enimy to it, and all the rest
      That in the Gardin of Adonis springs,
      Is wicked Time; who with his scythe addrest
      Does mow the flowring herbes and goodly things,
      And all their glory to the ground downe flings,
      Where they do wither and are fowly mard
      He flyes about, and with his flaggy wings
      Beates downe both leaves and buds without regard,
    Ne ever pitty may relent his malice hard.

       *       *       *       *       *

      But were it not that Time their troubler is,
      All that in this delightful gardin growes
      Should happy bee, and have immortall blis:
      For here all plenty and all pleasure flowes;
      And sweete Love gentle fitts emongst them throwes,
      Without fell rancor or fond gealosy.
      Franckly each paramour his leman knowes,
      Each bird his mate; ne any does envy
    Their goodly meriment and gay felicity.

      There is continual spring, and harvest there
      Continuall, both meeting at one tyme:
      For both the boughes doe laughing blossoms beare.
      And with fresh colours decke the wanton pryme,
      And eke attonce the heavy trees they clyme,
      Which seeme to labour under their fruites lode:
      The whiles the ioyous birdes make their pastyme
      Emongst the shady leaves, their sweet abode,
    And their trew loves without suspition tell abrode.

      Right in the middest of that Paradise
      There stood a stately mount, on whose round top
      A gloomy grove of mirtle trees did rise,
      Whose shady boughes sharp steele did never lop,
      Nor wicked beastes their tender buds did crop,
      But like a girlond compasséd the hight,
      And from their fruitfull sydes sweet gum did drop,
      That all the ground, with pretious deaw bedight,
    Threw forth most dainty odours and most sweet delight.

      And in the thickest covert of that shade
      There was a pleasaunt arber, not by art
      But of the trees owne inclination made,
      Which knitting their rancke braunches part to part,
      With wanton yvie-twine entrayld athwart,
      And eglantine and caprifole emong,
      Fashioned above within their inmost part,
      That neither Phoebus beams could through them throng,
    Nor Aeolus sharp blast could worke them any wrong.

      And all about grew every sort of flowre,
      To which sad lovers were transformde of yore,
      Fresh Hyacinthus, Phoebus paramoure
      And dearest love;
      Foolish Narcisse, that likes the watry shore;
      Sad Amaranthus, made a flowre but late,
      Sad Amaranthus, in whose purple gore
      Me seemes I see Amintas wretched fate,
    To whom sweet poet's verse hath given endlesse date.

Fairie Queene, Book III. Canto VI.

I must here give a few stanzas from Spenser's description of the Bower of Bliss

    In which whatever in this worldly state
    Is sweet and pleasing unto living sense,
    Or that may dayntiest fantasy aggrate
    Was pouréd forth with pleantiful dispence.

The English poet in his Fairie Queene has borrowed a great deal from Tasso and Ariosto, but
generally speaking, his borrowings, like those of most true poets, are improvements upon the
original.

THE BOWER OF BLISS.

      One would have thought, (so cunningly the rude[039]
      And scornéd partes were mingled with the fine,)
      That Nature had for wantonesse ensude
      Art, and that Art at Nature did repine;
      So striving each th' other to undermine,
      Each did the others worke more beautify;
      So diff'ring both in willes agreed in fine;
      So all agreed, through sweete diversity,
    This Gardin to adorn with all variety.

      And in the midst of all a fountaine stood,
      Of richest substance that on earth might bee,
      So pure and shiny that the silver flood
      Through every channel running one might see;
      Most goodly it with curious ymageree
      Was over-wrought, and shapes of naked boyes,
      Of which some seemed with lively iollitee
      To fly about, playing their wanton toyes,
    Whylest others did themselves embay in liquid ioyes.

The Faerie Queene, Book II. Canto XII.

Every school-boy has heard of the gardens of the Hesperides. The story is told in many different
ways. According to some accounts, the Hesperides, the daughters of Hesperus, were appointed
to keep charge of the tree of golden apples which Jupiter presented to Juno on their wedding
day. A hundred-headed dragon that never slept, (the offspring of Typhon,) couched at the foot
of the tree. It was one of the twelve labors of Hercules to obtain possession of some of these
apples. He slew the dragon and gathered three golden apples. The gardens, according to some
authorities, were situated near Mount Atlas.

Shakespeare seems to have taken Hesperides to be the name of the garden instead of that of
its fair keepers. Even the learned Milton in his Paradise Regained, (Book II) talks of the
ladies of the Hesperides, and appears to make the word Hesperides synonymous with "Hesperian
gardens." Bishop Newton, in a foot-note to the passage in "Paradise Regained," asks, "What
are the Hesperides famous for, but the gardens and orchards which they had bearing golden fruit
in the western Isles of Africa." Perhaps after all there may be some good authority in favor
of extending the names of the nymphs to the garden itself. Malone, while condemning Shakespeare's
use of the words as inaccurate, acknowledges that other poets have used it in the same way,
and quotes as an instance, the following lines from Robert Greene:--

    Shew thee the tree, leaved with refined gold,
    Whereon the fearful dragon held his seat,
    That watched the garden called the Hesperides.

Robert Greene.

    For valour is not love a Hercules,
    Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?

Love's Labour Lost.

    Before thee stands this fair Hesperides,
    With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touched
    For death-like dragons here affright thee hard.

Pericles, Prince of Tyre.

Milton, after the fourth line of his Comus, had originally inserted, in his manuscript draft
of the poem, the following description of the garden of the Hesperides.

THE GARDEN OF THE HESPERIDES

    Amid the Hesperian gardens, on whose banks
    Bedewed with nectar and celestial songs
    Eternal roses grow, and hyacinth,
    And fruits of golden rind, on whose fair tree
    The scaly harnessed dragon ever keeps
    His uninchanted eye, around the verge
    And sacred limits of this blissful Isle
    The jealous ocean that old river winds
    His far extended aims, till with steep fall
    Half his waste flood the wide Atlantic fills;
    And half the slow unfathomed Stygian pool
    But soft, I was not sent to court your wonder
    With distant worlds and strange removéd climes
    Yet thence I come and oft from thence behold
    The smoke and stir of this dim narrow spot

Milton subsequently drew his pen through these lines, for what reason is not known. Bishop
Newton observes, that this passage, saved from intended destruction, may serve as a specimen
of the truth of the observation that

    Poets lose half the praise they should have got
    Could it be known what they discreetly blot.

Waller.

As I have quoted in an earlier page some unfavorable allusions to Homer's description of a
Grecian garden, it will be but fair to follow up Milton's picture of Paradise, and Tasso's
garden of Armida, and Ariosto's Garden of Alcina, and Spenser's Garden of Adonis and his Bower
of Bliss, with Homer's description of the Garden of Alcinous. Minerva tells Ulysses that the
Royal mansion to which the garden of Alcinous is attached is of such conspicuous grandeur and
so generally known, that any child might lead him to it;

            For Phoeacia's sons
    Possess not houses equalling in aught
    The mansion of Alcinous, the king.

I shall give Cowper's version, because it may be less familiar to the reader than Pope's, which
is in every one's hand.

Homer's Odyssey, Book VII.

The mode of watering the garden-ground, and the use made of the water by the public--

    Whence every citizen his vase supplies--

can hardly fail to remind Indian and Anglo-Indian readers of a Hindu gentleman's garden in Bengal.

Pope first published in the Guardian his own version of the account of the garden of Alcinous
and subsequently gave it a place in his entire translation of Homer. In introducing the readers
of the Guardian to the garden of Alcinous he observes that "the two most celebrated wits of
the world have each left us a particular picture of a garden; wherein those great masters,
being wholly unconfined and pointing at pleasure, may be thought to have given a full idea
of what seemed most excellent in that way. These (one may observe) consist entirely of the
useful part of horticulture, fruit trees, herbs, waters, &c. The pieces I am speaking of are
Virgil's account of the garden of the old Corycian, and Homer's of that of Alcinous. The first
of these is already known to the English reader, by the excellent versions of Mr. Dryden and
Mr. Addison."

I do not think our present landscape-gardeners, or parterre-gardeners or even our fruit or
kitchen-gardeners can be much enchanted with Virgil's ideal of a garden, but here it is, as
"done into English," by John Dryden, who describes the Roman Poet as "a profound naturalist,"
and "a curious Florist."

THE GARDEN OF THE OLD CORYCIAN.

    I chanc'd an old Corycian swain to know,
    Lord of few acres, and those barren too,
    Unfit for sheep or vines, and more unfit to sow:
    Yet, lab'ring well his little spot of ground,
    Some scatt'ring pot-herbs here and there he found,
    Which, cultivated with his daily care
    And bruis'd with vervain, were his frugal fare.
    With wholesome poppy-flow'rs, to mend his homely board:
    For, late returning home, he supp'd at ease,
    And wisely deem'd the wealth of monarchs less:
    The little of his own, because his own, did please.
    To quit his care, he gather'd, first of all,
    In spring the roses, apples in the fall:
    And, when cold winter split the rocks in twain,
    And ice the running rivers did restrain,
    He stripp'd the bear's foot of its leafy growth,
    And, calling western winds, accus'd the spring of sloth
    He therefore first among the swains was found
    To reap the product of his labour'd ground,
    And squeeze the combs with golden liquor crown'd
    His limes were first in flow'rs, his lofty pines,
    With friendly shade, secur'd his tender vines.
    For ev'ry bloom his trees in spring afford,
    An autumn apple was by tale restor'd
    He knew to rank his elms in even rows,
    For fruit the grafted pear tree to dispose,
    And tame to plums the sourness of the sloes
    With spreading planes he made a cool retreat,
    To shade good fellows from the summer's heat

Virgil's Georgics, Book IV.

An excellent Scottish poet--Allan Ramsay--a true and unaffected describer of rural life and
scenery--seems to have had as great a dislike to topiary gardens, and quite as earnest a love
of nature, as any of the best Italian poets. The author of the "Gentle Shepherd" tells us in
the following lines what sort of garden most pleased his fancy.

ALLAN RAMSAY'S GARDEN.

    I love the garden wild and wide,
    Where oaks have plum-trees by their side,
    Where woodbines and the twisting vine
    Clip round the pear tree and the pine
    Where mixed jonquils and gowans grow
    And roses midst rank clover grow
    Upon a bank of a clear strand,
    In wrimplings made by Nature's hand
    Though docks and brambles here and there
    May sometimes cheat the gardener's care,
    Yet this to me is Paradise,
    Compared with prim cut plots and nice,
    Where Nature has to Act resigned,
    Till all looks mean, stiff and confined.

I cannot say that I should wish to see forest trees and docks and brambles in garden borders.
Honest Allan here runs a little into the extreme, as men are apt enough to do, when they try
to get as far as possible from the side advocated by an opposite party.

I shall now exhibit two paintings of bowers. I begin with one from Spenser.

A BOWER

      And over him Art stryving to compayre
      With Nature did an arber greene dispied[041]
      Framéd of wanton yvie, flouring, fayre,
      Through which the fragrant eglantine did spred
      His prickling armes, entrayld with roses red,
      Which daintie odours round about them threw
      And all within with flowers was garnishéd
      That, when myld Zephyrus emongst them blew,
    Did breathe out bounteous smels, and painted colors shew

      And fast beside these trickled softly downe
      A gentle streame, whose murmuring wave did play
      Emongst the pumy stones, and made a sowne,
      To lull him soft asleepe that by it lay
      The wearie traveiler wandring that way,
      Therein did often quench his thirsty head
      And then by it his wearie limbes display,
      (Whiles creeping slomber made him to forget
    His former payne,) and wypt away his toilsom sweat.

      And on the other syde a pleasaunt grove
      Was shott up high, full of the stately tree
      That dedicated is t'Olympick Iove,
      And to his son Alcides,[042] whenas hee
      In Nemus gaynéd goodly victoree
      Theirin the merry birds of every sorte
      Chaunted alowd their cheerful harmonee,
      And made emongst themselves a sweete consórt
    That quickned the dull spright with musicall comfórt.

Fairie Queene, Book 2 Cant. 5 Stanzas 29, 30 and 31.

Here is a sweet picture of a "shady lodge" from the hand of Milton.

EVE'S NUPTIAL BOWER.

    Thus talking, hand in hand alone they pass'd
    On to their blissful bower. It was a place
    Chosen by the sov'reign Planter, when he framed
    All things to man's delightful use, the roof
    Of thickest covert was inwoven shade,
    Laurel and myrtle, and what higher grew
    Of firm and fragrant leaf, on either side
    Acanthus, and each odorous bushy shrub,
    Fenced up the verdant wall, each beauteous flower
    Iris all hues, roses, and jessamine,
    Rear'd high their flourish'd heads between, and wrought
    Mosaic, under foot the violet,
    Crocus, and hyacinth, with rich inlay
    Broider'd the ground, more colour'd than with stone
    Of costliest emblem other creature here,
    Beast, bird, insect, or worm, durst enter none,
    Such was their awe of man. In shadier bower
    More sacred and sequester'd, though but feign'd,
    Pan or Sylvanus never slept, nor nymph
    Nor Faunus haunted. Here, in close recess,
    With flowers, garlands, and sweet smelling herbs,
    Espoused Eve deck'd first her nuptial bed,
    And heavenly quires the hymenean sung

I have already quoted from Leigh Hunt's "Stories from the Italian poets" an amusing anecdote
illustrative of Ariosto's ignorance of botany. But even in these days when all sorts of sciences
are forced upon all sorts of students, we often meet with persons of considerable sagacity
and much information of a different kind who are marvellously ignorant of the vegetable world.

In the just published Memoirs of the late James Montgomery, of Sheffield, it is recorded that
the poet and his brother Robert, a tradesman at Woolwich, (not Robert Montgomery, the author
of 'Satan,' &c.) were one day walking together, when the trader seeing a field of flax in full
flower, asked the poet what sort of corn it was. "Such corn as your shirt is made of," was
the reply. "But Robert," observes a writer in the Athenaeum, "need not be ashamed of his simplicity.
Rousseau, naturalist as he was, could hardly tell one berry from another, and three of our
greatest wits disputing in the field whether the crop growing there was rye, barley, or oats,
were set right by a clown, who truly pronounced it wheat."

Men of genius who have concentrated all their powers on some one favorite profession or pursuit
are often thus triumphed over by the vulgar, whose eyes are more observant of the familiar
objects and details of daily life and of the scenes around them. Wordsworth and Coleridge,
on one occasion, after a long drive, and in the absence of a groom, endeavored to relieve the
tired horse of its harness. After torturing the poor animal's neck and endangering its eyes
by their clumsy and vain attempts to slip off the collar, they at last gave up the matter in
despair. They felt convinced that the horse's head must have swollen since the collar was put
on. At last a servant-girl beheld their perplexity. "La, masters," she exclaimed, "you dont
set about it the right way." She then seized hold of the collar, turned it broad end up, and
slipped it off in a second. The mystery that had puzzled two of the finest intellects of their
time was a very simple matter indeed to a country wench who had perhaps never heard that England
possessed a Shakespeare.

James Montgomery was a great lover of flowers, and few of our English poets have written about
the family of Flora, the sweet wife of Zephyr, in a more genial spirit. He used to regret that
the old Floral games and processions on May-day and other holidays had gone out of fashion.
Southey tells us that in George the First's reign a grand Florist's Feast was held at Bethnall
Green, and that a carnation named after his Majesty was King of the Year. The Stewards were
dressed with laurel leaves and flowers. They carried gilded staves. Ninety cultivators followed
in procession to the sound of music, each bearing his own flowers before him. All elegant customs
of this nature have fallen into desuetude in England, though many of them are still kept up
in other parts of Europe.

Chaucer who dearly loved all images associated with the open air and the dewy fields and bright
mornings and radiant flowers makes the gentle Emily,

            That fairer was to seene
    Than is the lily upon his stalkie greene,

rise early and do honor to the birth of May-day. All things now seem to breathe of hope and joy.

            Though long hath been
    The trance of Nature on the naked bier
    Where ruthless Winter mocked her slumbers drear
    And rent with icy hand her robes of green,
    That trance is brightly broken! Glossy trees,
    Resplendent meads and variegated flowers
    Flash in the sun and flutter in the breeze
    And now with dreaming eye the poet sees
    Fair shapes of pleasure haunt romantic bowers,
    And laughing streamlets chase the flying hours.

D.L.R.

The great describer of our Lost Paradise did not disdain to sing a

SONG ON MAY-MORNING.

    Now the bright Morning star, Day's harbinger,
    Comes dancing from the east, and leads with her
    The flowery May, who from her green lap throws
    The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose
        Hail bounteous-May, that dost inspire
        Mirth and youth and warm desire;
        Woods and groves are of thy dressing,
        Hill and dale do boast thy blessing.
    Thus we salute thee with our early song,
    And welcome thee and wish thee long.

Nor did the Poet of the World, William Shakespeare, hesitate to

    Do observance to a morn of May.

He makes one of his characters (in King Henry VIII.) complain that it is as impossible to keep
certain persons quiet on an ordinary day, as it is to make them sleep on May-day--once the
time of universal merriment-- when every one was wont "to put himself into triumph."

            'Tis as much impossible,
    Unless we sweep 'em from the doors with cannons
    To scatter 'em, as 'tis to make 'em sleep
    On May-day Morning.

Spenser duly celebrates, in his "Shepheard's Calender,"

    Thilke mery moneth of May
    When love-lads masken in fresh aray,

when "all is yclad with pleasaunce, the ground with grasse, the woods with greene leaves, and
the bushes with bloosming buds."

    Sicker[043] this morowe, no longer agoe,
    I saw a shole of shepeardes outgoe
    With singing and shouting and iolly chere:
    Before them yode[044] a lustre tabrere,[045]
    That to the many a hornepype playd
    Whereto they dauncen eche one with his mayd.
    To see those folks make such iovysaunce,
    Made my heart after the pype to daunce.
    Tho[046] to the greene wood they speeden hem all
    To fetchen home May with their musicall;
    And home they bringen in a royall throne
    Crowned as king; and his queene attone[047]
    Was LADY FLORA.

Spenser.

This is the season when the birds seem almost intoxicated with delight at the departure of
the dismal and cold and cloudy days of winter and the return of the warm sun. The music of
these little May musicians seems as fresh as the fragrance of the flowers. The Skylark is the
prince of British Singing-birds--the leader of their cheerful band.

LINES TO A SKYLARK.

    Wanderer through the wilds of air!
    Freely as an angel fair
    Thou dost leave the solid earth,
    Man is bound to from his birth
    Scarce a cubit from the grass
    Springs the foot of lightest lass--
    Thou upon a cloud can'st leap,
    And o'er broadest rivers sweep,
    Climb up heaven's steepest height,
    Fluttering, twinkling, in the light,
    Soaring, singing, till, sweet bird,
    Thou art neither seen nor heard,
    Lost in azure fields afar
    Like a distance hidden star,
    That alone for angels bright
    Breathes its music, sheds its light

    Warbler of the morning's mirth!
    When the gray mists rise from earth,
    And the round dews on each spray
    Glitter in the golden ray,
    And thy wild notes, sweet though high,
    Fill the wide cerulean, sky,
    Is there human heart or brain
    Can resist thy merry strain?

    But not always soaring high,
    Making man up turn his eye
    Just to learn what shape of love,
    Raineth music from above,--
    All the sunny cloudlets fair
    Floating on the azure air,
    All the glories of the sky
    Thou leavest unreluctantly,
    Silently with happy breast
    To drop into thy lowly nest.

    Though the frame of man must be
    Bound to earth, the soul is free,
    But that freedom oft doth bring
    Discontent and sorrowing.
    Oh! that from each waking vision,
    Gorgeous vista, gleam Elysian,
    From ambition's dizzy height,
    And from hope's illusive light,
    Man, like thee, glad lark, could brook
    Upon a low green spot to look,
    And with home affections blest
    Sink into as calm a nest!         D.L.R.

I brought from England to India two English skylarks. I thought they would help to remind me
of English meadows and keep alive many agreeable home-associations. In crossing the desert
they were carefully lashed on the top of one of the vans, and in spite of the dreadful jolting
and the heat of the sun they sang the whole way until night-fall. It was pleasant to hear English
larks from rich clover fields singing so joyously in the sandy waste. In crossing some fields
between Cairo and the Pyramids I was surprized and delighted with the songs of Egyptian skylarks.
Their notes were much the same as those of the English lark. The lark of Bengal is about the
size of a sparrow and has a poor weak note. At this moment a lark from Caubul (larger than
an English lark) is doing his best to cheer me with his music. This noble bird, though so far
from his native fields, and shut up in his narrow prison, pours forth his rapturous melody
in an almost unbroken stream from dawn to sunset. He allows no change of season to abate his
minstrelsy, to any observable degree, and seems equally happy and musical all the year round.
I have had him nearly two years, and though of course he must moult his feathers yearly, I
have not observed the change of plumage, nor have I noticed that he has sung less at one period
of the year than another. One of my two English larks was stolen the very day I landed in India,
and the other soon died. The loss of an English lark is not to be replaced in Calcutta, though
almost every week, canaries, linnets, gold-finches and bull-finches are sold at public auctions
here.

But I must return to my main subject.--The ancients used to keep the great Feast of the goddess
Flora on the 28th of April. It lasted till the 3rd of May. The Floral Games of antiquity were
unhappily debased by indecent exhibitions; but they were not entirely devoid of better characteristics.[048]
Ovid describing the goddess Flora says that "while she was speaking she breathed forth vernal
roses from her mouth." The same poet has represented her in her garden with the Florae gathering
flowers and the Graces making garlands of them. The British borrowed the idea of this festival
from the Romans. Some of our Kings and Queens used 'to go a Maying,' and to have feasts of
wine and venison in the open meadows or under the good green-wood. Prior says:

      Let one great day
    To celebrate sports and floral play
    Be set aside.

But few people, in England, in these times, distinguish May-day from the initial day of any
other month of the twelve. I am old enough to remember Jack-in-the-Green. Nor have I forgotten
the cheerful clatter--the brush-and-shovel music--of our little British negroes--"innocent
blacknesses," as Lamb calls them--the chimney-sweepers,--a class now almost swept away themselves
by machinery. One May-morning in the streets of London these tinsel-decorated merry-makers
with their sooty cheeks and black lips lined with red, and staring eyes whose white seemed
whiter still by contrast with the darkness of their cases, and their ivory teeth kept sound
and brilliant with the professional powder, besieged George Selwyn and his arm-in-arm companion,
Lord Pembroke, for May-day boxes. Selwyn making them a low bow, said, very solemnly "I have
often heard of the sovereignty of the people, and I suppose you are some of the young princes
in court mourning."

My Native readers in Bengal can form no conception of the delight with which the British people
at home still hail the spring of the year, or the deep interest which they take in all "the
Seasons and their change"; though they have dropped some of the oldest and most romantic of
the ceremonies once connected with them. If there were an annual fall of the leaf in the groves
of India, instead of an eternal summer, the natives would discover how much the charms of the
vegetable world are enhanced by these vicissitudes, and how even winter itself can be made
delightful. My brother exiles will remember as long as life is in them, how exquisite, in dear
old England, is the enjoyment of a brisk morning walk in the clear frosty air, and how cheering
and cosy is the social evening fire! Though a cold day in Calcutta is not exactly like a cold
day in London, it sometimes revives the remembrance of it. An Indian winter, if winter it may
be called, is indeed far less agreeable than a winter in England, but it is not wholly without
its pleasures. It is, at all events, a grateful change--a welcome relief and refreshment after
a sultry summer or a muggy rainy season.

An Englishman, however, must always prefer the keener but more wholesome frigidity of his own
clime. There, the external gloom and bleakness of a severe winter day enhance our in-door comforts,
and we do not miss sunny skies when greeted with sunny looks. If we then see no blooming flowers,
we see blooming faces. But as we have few domestic enjoyments in this country--no social snugness,--no
sweet seclusion--and as our houses are as open as bird-cages,--and as we almost live in public
and in the open air--we have little comfort when compelled, with an enfeebled frame and a morbidly
sensitive cuticle, to remain at home on what an Anglo-Indian Invalid calls a cold day, with
an easterly wind whistling through every room.[049] In our dear native country each season
has its peculiar moral or physical attractions. It is not easy to say which is the most agreeable--its
summer or its winter. Perhaps I must decide in favor of the first. The memory of many a smiling
summer day still flashes upon my soul. If the whole of human life were like a fine English
day in June, we should cease to wish for "another and a better world." It is often from dawn
to sunset one revel of delight. How pleasantly, from the first break of day, have I lain wide
awake and traced the approach of the breakfast hour by the increasing notes of birds and the
advancing sun-light on my curtains! A summer feeling, at such a time, would make my heart dance
within me, as I thought of the long, cheerful day to be enjoyed, and planned some rural walk,
or rustic entertainment. The ills that flesh is heir to, if they occurred for a moment, appeared
like idle visions. They were inconceivable as real things. As I heard the lark singing in "a
glorious privacy of light," and saw the boughs of the green and gold laburnum waving at my
window, and had my fancy filled with images of natural beauty, I felt a glow of fresh life
in my veins, and my soul was inebriated with joy. It is difficult, amidst such exhilarating
influences, to entertain those melancholy ideas which sometimes crowd upon, us, and appear
so natural, at a less happy hour. Even actual misfortune comes in a questionable shape, when
our physical constitution is in perfect health, and the flowers are in full bloom, and the
skies are blue, and the streams are glittering in the sun. So powerfully does the light of
external nature sometimes act upon the moral system, that a sweet sensation steals gradually
over the heart, even when we think we have reason to be sorrowful, and while we almost accuse
ourselves of a want of feeling. The fretful hypochondriac would do well to bear this fact in
mind, and not take it for granted that all are cold and selfish who fail to sympathize with
his fantastic cares. He should remember that men are sometimes so buoyed up by the sense of
corporeal power, and a communion with nature in her cheerful moods, that things connected with
their own personal interests, and which at other times might irritate and wound their feelings,
pass by them like the idle wind which they regard not. He himself must have had his intervals
of comparative happiness, in which the causes of his present grief would have appeared trivial
and absurd. He should not, then, expect persons whose blood is warm in their veins, and whose
eyes are open to the blessed sun in heaven, to think more of the apparent causes of his sorrow
than he would himself, were his mind and body in a healthful state.

With what a light heart and eager appetite did I enter the little breakfast parlour of which
the glass-doors opened upon a bright green lawn, variegated with small beds of flowers! The
table was spread with dewy and delicious fruits from our own garden, and gathered by fair and
friendly hands. Beautiful and luscious as were these garden dainties, they were of small account
in comparison with the fresh cheeks and cherry lips that so frankly accepted the wonted early
greeting. Alas! how that circle of early friends is now divided, and what a change has since
come over the spirit of our dreams! Yet still I cherish boyish feelings, and the past is sometimes
present. As I give an imaginary kiss to an "old familiar face," and catch myself almost unconsciously,
yet literally, returning imaginary smiles, my heart is as fresh and fervid as of yore.

A lapse of fifteen years, and a distance of fifteen thousand miles, and the glare of a tropical
sky and the presence of foreign faces, need not make an Indian Exile quite forgetful of home-delights.
Parted friends may still share the light of love as severed clouds are equally kindled by the
same sun. No number of miles or days can change or separate faithful spirits or annihilate
early associations. That strange magician, Fancy, who supplies so many corporeal deficiencies
and overcomes so many physical obstructions, and mocks at space and time, enables us to pass
in the twinkling of an eye over the dreary waste of waters that separates the exile from the
scenes and companions of his youth. He treads again his native shore. He sits by the hospitable
hearth and listens to the ringing laugh of children. He exchanges cordial greetings with the
"old familiar faces." There is a resurrection of the dead, and a return of vanished years.
He abandons himself to the sweet illusion, and again

    Lives over each scene, and is what he beholds.

I must not be too egotistically garrulous in print, or I would now attempt to describe the
various ways in which I have spent a summer's day in England. I would dilate upon my noon-day
loiterings amidst wild ruins, and thick forests, and on the shaded banks of rivers--the pic-nic
parties--the gipsy prophecies--the twilight homeward walk--the social tea-drinking, and, the
last scene of all, the "rosy dreams and slumbers light," induced by wholesome exercise and
placid thoughts.[050] But perhaps these few simple allusions are sufficient to awaken a train
of kindred associations in the reader's mind, and he will thank me for those words and images
that are like the keys of memory, and "open all her cells with easy force."

If a summer's day be thus rife with pleasure, scarcely less so is a day in winter, though with
some little drawbacks, that give, by contrast, a zest to its enjoyments. It is difficult to
leave the warm morning bed and brave the external air. The fireless grate and frosted windows
may well make the stoutest shudder. But when we have once screwed our courage to the sticking
place, and with a single jerk of the clothes, and a brisk jump from the bed, have commenced
the operations of the toilet, the battle is nearly over. The teeth chatter for a while, and
the limbs shiver, and we do not feel particularly comfortable while breaking the ice in our
jugs, and performing our cold ablutions amidst the sharp, glass-like fragments, and wiping
our faces with a frozen towel. But these petty evils are quickly vanquished, and as we rush
out of the house, and tread briskly and firmly on the hard ringing earth, and breathe our visible
breath in the clear air, our strength and self-importance miraculously increase, and the whole
frame begins to glow. The warmth and vigour thus acquired are inexpressibly delightful. As
we re-enter the house, we are proud of our intrepidity and vigour, and pity the effeminacy
of our less enterprising friends, who, though huddled together round the fire, like flies upon
a sunny wall, still complain of cold, and instead of the bloom of health and animation, exhibit
pale and pinched and discolored features, and hands cold, rigid, and of a deadly hue. Those
who rise with spirit on a winter morning, and stir and thrill themselves with early exercise,
are indifferent to the cold for the rest of the day, and feel a confidence in their corporeal
energies, and a lightness of heart that are experienced at no other season.

But even the timid and luxurious are not without their pleasures. As the shades of evening
draw in, the parlour twilight--the closed curtains--and the cheerful fire--make home a little
paradise to all.

The warm and cold seasons of India have no charms like those of England, but yet people who
are guiltless of what Milton so finely calls "a sullenness against nature," and who are willing,
in a spirit of true philosophy and piety, to extract good from every thing, may save themselves
from wretchedness even in this land of exile. While I am writing this paragraph, a bird in
my room, (not the Caubul songster that I have already alluded to, but a fine little English
linnet,) who is as much a foreigner here as I am, is pouring out his soul in a flood of song.
His notes ring with joy. He pines not for his native meadows--he cares not for his wiry bars--he
envies not the little denizens of air that sometimes flutter past my window, nor imagines,
for a moment, that they come to mock him with their freedom. He is contented with his present
enjoyments, because they are utterly undisturbed by idle comparisons with those experienced
in the past or anticipated in the future. He has no thankless repinings and no vain desires.
Is intellect or reason then so fatal, though sublime a gift that we cannot possess it without
the poisonous alloy of care? Must grief and ingratitude inevitably find entrance into the heart,
in proportion to the loftiness and number of our mental endowments? Are we to seek for happiness
in ignorance? To these questions the reply is obvious. Every good quality may be abused, and
the greatest, most; and he who perversely employs his powers of thought and imagination to
a wrong purpose deserves the misery that he gains. Were we honestly to deduct from the ills
of life all those of our own creation, how trifling, in the majority of cases, the amount that
would remain! We seem to invite and encourage sorrow, while happiness is, as it were, forced
upon us against our will. It is wonderful how some men pertinaciously cling to care, and argue
themselves into a dissatisfaction with their lot. Thus it is really a matter of little moment
whether fortune smile or frown, for it is in vain to look for superior felicity amongst those
who have more "appliances and means to boot," than their fellow-men. Wealth, rank, and reputation,
do not secure their possessors from the misery of discontent.

As happiness then depends upon the right direction and employment of our faculties, and not
on worldly goods or mere localities, our countrymen might be cheerful enough, even in this
foreign land, if they would only accustom themselves to a proper train of thinking, and be
ready on every occasion to look on the brighter side of all things.[051] In reverting to home-scenes
we should regard them for their intrinsic charms, and not turn them into a source of disquiet
by mournfully comparing them with those around us. India, let Englishmen murmur as they will,
has some attractions, enjoyments and advantages. No Englishman is here in danger of dying of
starvation as some of our poets have done in the inhospitable streets of London. The comparatively
princely and generous style in which we live in this country, the frank and familiar tone of
our little society, and the general mildness of the climate, (excepting a few months of a too
sultry summer) can hardly be denied by the most determined malcontent. The weather is indeed
too often a great deal warmer than we like it; but if "the excessive heat" did not form a convenient
subject for complaint and conversation, it is perhaps doubtful if it would so often be thought
of or alluded to. But admit the objection. What climate is without its peculiar evils? In the
cold season a walk in India either in the morning or the evening is often extremely pleasant
in pleasant company, and I am glad to see many sensible people paying the climate the compliment
of treating it like that of England. It is now fashionable to use our limbs in the ordinary
way, and the "Garden of Eden"[052] has become a favorite promenade, particularly on the evenings
when a band from the Fort fills the air with a cheerful harmony and throws a fresher life upon
the scene. It is not to be denied that besides the mere exercise, pedestrians at home have
great advantages over those who are too indolent or aristocratic to leave their equipages,
because they can cut across green and quiet fields, enter rural by-ways, and enjoy a thousand
little patches of lovely scenery that are secrets to the high-road traveller. But still the
Calcutta pedestrian has also his gratifications. He can enjoy no exclusive prospects, but he
beholds upon an Indian river a forest of British masts--the noble shipping of the Queen of
the Sea--and has a fine panoramic view of this City of Palaces erected by his countrymen on
a foreign shore;--and if he is fond of children, he must be delighted with the numberless pretty
and happy little faces--the fair forms of Saxon men and women in miniature--that crowd about
him on the green sward;--he must be charmed with their innocent prattle, their quick and graceful
movements, and their winning ways, that awaken a tone of tender sentiment in his heart, and
rekindle many sweet associations.

SONNETS,

WRITTEN IN EXILE.

                        I.

    Man's heart may change, but Nature's glory never;--
    And while the soul's internal cell is bright,
    The cloudless eye lets in the bloom and light
    Of earth and heaven to charm and cheer us ever.
    Though youth hath vanished, like a winding river
    Lost in the shadowy woods; and the dear sight
    Of native hill and nest-like cottage white,
    'Mid breeze-stirred boughs whose crisp leaves gleam and quiver,
    And murmur sea-like sounds, perchance no more
    My homeward step shall hasten cheerily;
    Yet still I feel as I have felt of yore,
    And love this radiant world. Yon clear blue sky--
    These gorgeous groves--this flower-enamelled floor--
    Have deep enchantments for my heart and eye.

                        II.

    Man's heart may change, but Nature's glory never,
    Though to the sullen gaze of grief the sight
    Of sun illumined skies may seem less bright,
    Or gathering clouds less grand, yet she, as ever,
    Is lovely or majestic. Though fate sever
    The long linked bands of love, and all delight
    Be lost, as in a sudden starless night,
    The radiance may return, if He, the giver
    Of peace on earth, vouchsafe the storm to still
    This breast once shaken with the strife of care
    Is touched with silent joy. The cot--the hill,
    Beyond the broad blue wave--and faces fair,
    Are pictured in my dreams, yet scenes that fill
    My waking eye can save me from despair.

                        III.

    Man's heart may change, but Nature's glory never,--
    Strange features throng around me, and the shore
    Is not my own dear land. Yet why deplore
    This change of doom? All mortal ties must sever.
    The pang is past,--and now with blest endeavour
    I check the ready tear, the rising sigh
    The common earth is here--the common sky--
    The common FATHER. And how high soever
    O'er other tribes proud England's hosts may seem,
    God's children, fair or sable, equal find
    A FATHER'S love. Then learn, O man, to deem
    All difference idle save of heart or mind
    Thy duty, love--each cause of strife, a dream--
    Thy home, the world--thy family, mankind.

D.L.R.

For the sake of my home readers I must now say a word or two on the effect produced upon the
mind of a stranger on his approach to Calcutta from the Sandheads.

As we run up the Bay of Bengal and approach the dangerous Sandheads, the beautiful deep blue
of the ocean suddenly disappears. It turns into a pale green. The sea, even in calm weather,
rolls over soundings in long swells. The hue of the water is varied by different depths, and
in passing over the edge of soundings, it is curious to observe how distinctly the form of
the sands may be traced by the different shades of green in the water above and beyond them.
In the lower part of the bay, the crisp foam of the dark sea at night is instinct with phosphoric
lustre. The ship seems to make her way through galaxies of little ocean stars. We lose sight
of this poetical phenomenon as we approach the mouth of the Hooghly. But the passengers, towards
the termination of their voyage, become less observant of the changeful aspect of the sea.
Though amused occasionally by flights of sea-gulls, immense shoals of porpoises, apparently
tumbling or rolling head over tail against the wind, and the small sprat-like fishes that sometimes
play and glitter on the surface, the stranger grows impatient to catch a glimpse of an Indian
jungle; and even the swampy tiger-haunted Saugor Island is greeted with that degree of interest
which novelty usually inspires.

At first the land is but little above the level of the water. It rises gradually as we pass
up further from the sea. As we come still nearer to Calcutta, the soil on shore seems to improve
in richness and the trees to increase in size. The little clusters of nest-like villages snugly
sheltered in foliage--the groups of dark figures in white garments--the cattle wandering over
the open plain--the emerald-colored fields of rice--the rich groves of mangoe trees--the vast
and magnificent banyans, with straight roots dropping from their highest branches, (hundreds
of these branch-dropped roots being fixed into the earth and forming "a pillared shade"),--the
tall, slim palms of different characters and with crowns of different forms, feathery or fan-like,--the
many-stemmed and long, sharp-leaved bamboos, whose thin pliant branches swing gracefully under
the weight of the lightest bird,--the beautifully rounded and bright green peepuls, with their
burnished leaves glittering in the sunshine, and trembling at the zephyr's softest touch with
a pleasant rustling sound, suggestive of images of coolness and repose,--form a striking and
singularly interesting scene (or rather succession of scenes) after the monotony of a long
voyage during which nothing has been visible but sea and sky.

But it is not until he arrives at a bend of the river called Garden Reach, where the City of
Palaces first opens on the view, that the stranger has a full sense of the value of our possessions
in the East. The princely mansions on our right;--(residences of English gentry), with their
rich gardens and smooth slopes verdant to the water's edge,--the large and rich Botanic Garden
and the Gothic edifice of Bishop's College on our left--and in front, as we advance a little
further, the countless masts of vessels of all sizes and characters, and from almost every
clime,--Fort William, with its grassy ramparts and white barracks,--the Government House, a
magnificent edifice in spite of many imperfections,--the substantial looking Town Hall--the
Supreme Court House--the broad and ever verdant plain (or madaun) in front--and the noble lines
of buildings along the Esplanade and Chowringhee Road,--the new Cathedral almost at the extremity
of the plain, and half-hidden amidst the trees,--the suburban groves and buildings of Kidderpore
beyond, their outlines softened by the haze of distance, like scenes contemplated through colored
glass--the high-sterned budgerows and small trim bauleahs along the edge of the river,--the
neatly-painted palanquins and other vehicles of all sorts and sizes,--the variously-hued and
variously-clad people of all conditions; the fair European, the black and nearly naked Cooly,
the clean-robed and lighter-skinned native Baboo, the Oriental nobleman with his jewelled turban
and kincob vest, and costly necklace and twisted cummerbund, on a horse fantastically caparisoned,
and followed in barbaric state by a train of attendants with long, golden-handled punkahs,
peacock feather chowries, and golden chattahs and silver sticks,--present altogether a scene
that is calculated to at once delight and bewilder the traveller, to whom all the strange objects
before him have something of the enchantment and confusion of an Arabian Night's dream. When
he recovers from his surprise, the first emotion in the breast of an Englishman is a feeling
of national pride. He exults in the recognition of so many glorious indications of the power
of a small and remote nation that has founded a splendid empire in so strange and vast a land.

When the first impression begins to fade, and he takes a closer view of the great metropolis
of India--and observes what miserable straw huts are intermingled with magnificent palaces--how
much Oriental filth and squalor and idleness and superstition and poverty and ignorance are
associated with savage splendour, and are brought into immediate and most incongruous contact
with Saxon energy and enterprize and taste and skill and love of order, and the amazing intelligence
of the West in this nineteenth century--and when familiarity breeds something like contempt
for many things that originally excited a vague and pleasing wonder--the English traveller
in the East is apt to dwell too exclusively on the worst side of the picture, and to become
insensible to the real interest, and blind to the actual beauty of much of the scene around
him. Extravagant astonishment and admiration, under the influence of novelty, a strong re-action,
and a subsequent feeling of unreasonable disappointment, seem, in some degree, natural to all
men; but in no other part of the world, and under no other circumstances, is this peculiarity
of our condition more conspicuously displayed than in the case of Englishmen in India. John
Bull, who is always a grumbler even on his own shores, is sure to become a still more inveterate
grumbler in other countries, and perhaps the climate of Bengal, producing lassitude and low
spirits, and a yearning for their native land, of which they are so justly proud, contribute
to make our countrymen in the East even more than usually unsusceptible of pleasurable emotions
until at last they turn away in positive disgust from the scenes and objects which remind them
that they are in a state of exile.

"There is nothing," says Hamlet, "either good or bad, but thinking makes it so." At every change
of the mind's colored optics the scene before it changes also. I have sometimes contemplated
the vast metropolis of England--or rather of the world--multitudinous and mighty LONDON--with
the pride and hope and exultation, not of a patriot only, but of a cosmopolite--a man. Its
grand national structures that seem built for eternity--its noble institutions, charitable,
and learned, and scientific, and artistical--the genius and science and bravery and moral excellence
within its countless walls--have overwhelmed me with a sense of its glory and majesty and power.
But in a less admiring mood, I have quite reversed the picture. Perhaps the following sonnet
may seem to indicate that the writer while composing it, must have worn his colored spectacles.

LONDON, IN THE MORNING.

    The morning wakes, and through the misty air
    In sickly radiance struggles--like the dream
    Of sorrow-shrouded hope. O'er Thames' dull stream,
    Whose sluggish waves a wealthy burden bear
    From every port and clime, the pallid glare
    Of early sun-light spreads. The long streets seem
    Unpeopled still, but soon each path shall teem
    With hurried feet, and visages of care.
    And eager throngs shall meet where dusky marts
    Resound like ocean-caverns, with the din
    Of toil and strife and agony and sin.
    Trade's busy Babel! Ah! how many hearts
    By lust of gold to thy dim temples brought
    In happier hours have scorned the prize they sought?

D.L.R.

I now give a pair of sonnets upon the City of Palaces as viewed through somewhat clearer glasses.

VIEW OF CALCUTTA.

    Here Passion's restless eye and spirit rude
    May greet no kindred images of power
    To fear or wonder ministrant. No tower,
    Time-struck and tenantless, here seems to brood,
    In the dread majesty of solitude,
    O'er human pride departed--no rocks lower
    O'er ravenous billows--no vast hollow wood
    Rings with the lion's thunder--no dark bower
    The crouching tiger haunts--no gloomy cave
    Glitters with savage eyes! But all the scene
    Is calm and cheerful. At the mild command
    Of Britain's sons, the skilful and the brave,
    Fair palace-structures decorate the land,
    And proud ships float on Hooghly's breast serene!

D.L.R.

SONNET, ON RETURNING TO CALCUTTA AFTER A VOYAGE TO THE STRAITS OF MALACCA.

    Umbrageous woods, green dells, and mountains high,
    And bright cascades, and wide cerulean seas,
    Slumbering, or snow-wreathed by the freshening breeze,
    And isles like motionless clouds upon the sky
    In silent summer noons, late charmed mine eye,
    Until my soul was stirred like wind-touched trees,
    And passionate love and speechless ecstasies
    Up-raised the thoughts in spiritual depths that lie.
    Fair scenes, ye haunt me still! Yet I behold
    This sultry city on the level shore
    Not all unmoved; for here our fathers bold
    Won proud historic names in days of yore,
    And here are generous hearts that ne'er grow cold,
    And many a friendly hand and open door.

D.L.R.

There are several extremely elegant customs connected with some of the Indian Festivals, at
which flowers are used in great profusion. The surface of the "sacred river" is often thickly
strewn with them. In Mrs. Carshore's pleasing volume of Songs of the East[053] there is a long
poem (too long to quote entire) in which the Beara Festival is described. I must give the introductory
passage.

"THE BEARA FESTIVAL.

    "Upon the Ganges' overflowing banks,
    Where palm trees lined the shore in graceful ranks,
    I stood one night amidst a merry throng
    Of British youths and maidens, to behold
    A witching Indian scene of light and song,
    Crowds of veiled native loveliness untold,
    Each streaming path poured duskily along.
    The air was filled with the sweet breath of flowers,
    And music that awoke the silent hours,
    It was the BEARA FESTIVAL and feast
    When proud and lowly, loftiest and least,
    Matron and Moslem maiden pay their vows,
    With impetratory and votive gift,
    And to the Moslem Jonas bent their brows.
    Each brought her floating lamp of flowers, and swift
    A thousand lights along the current drift,
    Till the vast bosom of the swollen stream,
    Glittering and gliding onward like a dream,
    Seems a wide mirror of the starry sphere
    Or more as if the stars had dropt from air,
    And in an earthly heaven were shining here,
    And far above were, but reflected there
    Still group on group, advancing to the brink,
    As group on group retired link by link;
    For one pale lamp that floated out of view
    Five brighter ones they quickly placed anew;
    At length the slackening multitudes grew less,
    And the lamps floated scattered and apart.
    As stars grow few when morning's footsteps press
    When a slight girl, shy as the timid halt,
    Not far from where we stood, her offering brought.
    Singing a low sweet strain, with lips untaught.
    Her song proclaimed, that 'twas not many hours
    Since she had left her childhood's innocent home;
    And now with Beara lamp, and wreathed flowers,
    To propitiate heaven, for wedded bliss had come"

To these lines Mrs. Carshore (who has been in this country, I believe, from her birth, and
who ought to know something of Indian customs) appends the following notes.

"It was the Beara festival." Much has been said about the Beara or floating lamp, but I have
never yet seen a correct description. Moore mentions that Lalla Rookh saw a solitary Hindoo
girl bring her lamp to the river. D.L.R. says the same, whereas the Beara festival is a Moslem
feast that takes place once a year in the monsoons, when thousands of females offer their vows
to the patron of rivers.

"Moslem Jonas" Khauj Khoddir is the Jonas of the Mussulman; he, like the prophet of Nineveh,
was for three days inside a fish, and for that reason is called the patron of rivers."

I suppose Mrs. Carshore alludes, in the first of these notes, to the following passage in the
prose part of Lalla Rookh:--

"As they passed along a sequestered river after sunset, they saw a young Hindoo girl upon the
bank whose employment seemed to them so strange that they stopped their palanquins to observe
her. She had lighted a small lamp, filled with oil of cocoa, and placing it in an earthern
dish, adorned with a wreath of flowers, had committed it with a trembling hand to the stream:
and was now anxiously watching its progress down the current, heedless of the gay cavalcade
which had drawn up beside her. Lalla Rookh was all curiosity;--when one of her attendants,
who had lived upon the banks of the Ganges, (where this ceremony is so frequent that often,
in the dusk of evening, the river is seen glittering all over with lights, like the Oton-Jala
or Sea of Stars,) informed the Princess that it was the usual way, in which the friends of
those who had gone on dangerous voyages offered up vows for their safe return. If the lamp
sunk immediately, the omen was disastrous; but if it went shining down the stream, and continued
to burn till entirely out of sight, the return of the beloved object was considered as certain.

Lalla Rookh, as they moved on, more than once looked back, to observe how the young Hindoo's
lamp proceeded: and while she saw with pleasure that it was unextinguished, she could not help
fearing that all the hopes of this life were no better than that feeble light upon the river."

Moore prepared himself for the writing of Lalla Rookh by "long and laborious reading." He himself
narrates that Sir James Mackintosh was asked by Colonel Wilks, the Historian of British India,
whether it was true that the poet had never been in the East. Sir James replied, "Never." "Well,
that shows me," said Colonel Wilks, "that reading over D'Herbelot is as good as riding on the
back of a camel." Sir John Malcolm, Sir William Ouseley and other high authorities have testified
to the accuracy of Moore's descriptions of Eastern scenes and customs.

The following lines were composed on the banks of the Hooghly at Cossipore, (many long years
ago) just after beholding the river one evening almost covered with floating lamps.[054]

A HINDU FESTIVAL.

    Seated on a bank of green,
    Gazing on an Indian scene,
    I have dreams the mind to cheer,
    And a feast for eye and ear.
    At my feet a river flows,
    And its broad face richly glows
    With the glory of the sun,
    Whose proud race is nearly run

    Ne'er before did sea or stream
    Kindle thus beneath his beam,
    Ne'er did miser's eye behold
    Such a glittering mass of gold
    'Gainst the gorgeous radiance float
    Darkly, many a sloop and boat,
    While in each the figures seem
    Like the shadows of a dream
    Swiftly, passively, they glide
    As sliders on a frozen tide.

    Sinks the sun--the sudden night
    Falls, yet still the scene is bright
    Now the fire-fly's living spark
    Glances through the foliage dark,
    And along the dusky stream
    Myriad lamps with ruddy gleam
    On the small waves float and quiver,
    As if upon the favored river,
    And to mark the sacred hour,
    Stars had fallen in a shower.

    For many a mile is either shore
    Illumined with a countless store
    Of lustres ranged in glittering rows,
    Each a golden column throws
    To light the dim depths of the tide,
    And the moon in all her pride
    Though beauteously her regions glow,
    Views a scene as fair below

D.L.R.

Mrs. Carshore alludes, I suppose to the above lines, or the following sonnet, or both perhaps,
when she speaks of my erroneous Orientalism--

SCENE ON THE GANGES.

    The shades of evening veil the lofty spires
    Of proud Benares' fanes! A thickening haze
    Hangs o'er the stream. The weary boatmen raise
    Along the dusky shore their crimson fires
    That tinge the circling groups. Now hope inspires
    Yon Hindu maid, whose heart true passion sways,
    To launch on Gungas flood the glimmering rays
    Of Love's frail lamp,--but, lo the light expires!
    Alas! what sudden sorrow fills her breast!
    No charm of life remains. Her tears deplore
    A lover lost and never, never more
    Shall hope's sweet vision yield her spirit rest!
    The cold wave quenched the flame--an omen dread
    That telleth of the faithless--or the dead!

D.L.R.

Horace Hayman Wilson, a high authority on all Oriental customs, clearly alludes in the following
lines to the launching of floating lamps by Hindu females.

    Grave in the tide the Brahmin stands,
    And folds his cord or twists his hands,
    And tells his beads, and all unheard
    Mutters a solemn mystic word
    With reverence the Sudra dips,
    And fervently the current sips,
    That to his humbler hope conveys
    A future life of happier days.
    But chief do India's simple daughters
    Assemble in these hallowed waters,
    With vase of classic model laden
    Like Grecian girl or Tuscan maiden,
    Collecting thus their urns to fill
    From gushing fount or trickling rill,
    And still with pious fervour they
    To Gunga veneration pay
    And with pretenceless rite prefer,
    The wishes of their hearts to her
    The maid or matron, as she throws
    Champae or lotus, Bel or rose,
    Or sends the quivering light afloat
    In shallow cup or paper boat,
    Prays for a parent's peace and wealth
    Prays for a child's success and health,
    For a fond husband breathes a prayer,
    For progeny their loves to share,
    For what of good on earth is given
    To lowly life, or hoped in heaven,

H.H.W.

On seeing Miss Carshore's criticism I referred the subject to an intelligent Hindu friend from
whom I received the following answer:--

    My dear Sir,

    The Beara, strictly speaking, is a Mahomedan festival. Some of
    the lower orders of the Hindus of the NW Provinces, who have
    borrowed many of their customs from the Mahomedans, celebrate
    the Beara. But it is not observed by the Hindus of Bengal, who
    have a festival of their own, similar to the Beara. It takes
    place on the evening of the Saraswati Poojah, when a small
    piece of the bark of the Plantain Tree is fitted out with all
    the necessary accompaniments of a boat, and is launched in a
    private tank with a lamp. The custom is confined to the women
    who follow it in their own house or in the same neighbourhood.
    It is called the Sooa Dooa Breta.

    Yours truly,

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Carshore it would seem is partly right and partly wrong. She is right in calling the Beara
a Moslem Festival. It is so; but we have the testimony of Horace Hayman Wilson to the fact
that Hindu maids and matrons also launch their lamps upon the river. My Hindu friend acknowledges
that his countrymen in the North West Provinces have borrowed many of their customs from the
Mahomedans, and though he is not aware of it, it may yet be the case, that some of the Hindus
of Bengal, as elsewhere, have done the same, and that they set lamps afloat upon the stream
to discover by their continued burning or sudden extinction the fate of some absent friend
or lover. I find very few Natives who are able to give me any exact and positive information
concerning their own national customs. In their explanations of such matters they differ in
the most extraordinary manner amongst themselves. Two most respectable and intelligent Native
gentlemen who were proposing to lay out their grounds under my directions, told me that I must
not cut down a single cocoa-nut tree, as it would be dreadful sacrilege--equal to cutting the
throats of seven brahmins! Another equally respectable and intelligent Native friend, when
I mentioned the fact, threw himself back in his chair to give vent to a hearty laugh. When
he had recovered himself a little from this risible convulsion he observed that his father
and his grandfather had cut down cocoa-nut trees in considerable numbers without the slightest
remorse or fear. And yet again, I afterwards heard that one of the richest Hindu families in
Calcutta, rather than suffer so sacred an object to be injured, piously submit to a very serious
inconvenience occasioned by a cocoa-nut tree standing in the centre of the carriage road that
leads to the portico of their large town palace. I am told that there are other sacred trees
which must not be removed by the hands of Hindus of inferior caste, though in this case there
is a way of getting over the difficulty, for it is allowable or even meritorious to make presents
of these trees to Brahmins, who cut them down for their own fire-wood. But the cocoa-nut tree
is said to be too sacred even for the axe of a Brahmin.

I have been running away again from my subject;--I was discoursing upon May-day in England.
The season there is still a lovely and a merry one, though the most picturesque and romantic
of its ancient observances, now live but in the memory of the "oldest inhabitants," or on the
page of history.[055]

    See where, amidst the sun and showers,
    The Lady of the vernal hours,
    Sweet May, comes forth again with all her flowers.

Barry Cornwall.

The May-pole on these days is rarely seen to rise up in English towns with its proper floral
decorations[056]. In remote rural districts a solitary May-pole is still, however, occasionally
discovered. "A May-pole," says Washington Irving, "gave a glow to my feelings and spread a
charm over the country for the rest of the day: and as I traversed a part of the fair plains
of Cheshire, and the beautiful borders of Wales and looked from among swelling hills down a
long green valley, through which the Deva wound its wizard stream, my imagination turned all
into a perfect Arcadia. One can readily imagine what a gay scene old London must have been
when the doors were decked with hawthorn; and Robin Hood, Friar Tuck, Maid Marian, Morris dancers,
and all the other fantastic dancers and revellers were performing their antics about the May-pole
in every part of the city. I value every custom which tends to infuse poetical feeling into
the common people, and to sweeten and soften the rudeness of rustic manners without destroying
their simplicity."

Another American writer--a poet--has expressed his due appreciation of the pleasures of the
season. He thus addresses the merrie month of MAY.[057]

MAY.

    Would that thou couldst laugh for aye,
    Merry, ever merry May!
    Made of sun gleams, shade and showers
    Bursting buds, and breathing flowers,
    Dripping locked, and rosy vested,
    Violet slippered, rainbow crested;
    Girdled with the eglantine,
    Festooned with the dewy vine
    Merry, ever Merry May,
    Would that thou could laugh for aye!

W.D. Gallagher.

I must give a dainty bit of description from the poet of the poets--our own romantic Spenser.

      Then comes fair May, the fayrest mayde on ground,
      Decked with all dainties of the season's pryde,
      And throwing flowres out of her lap around.
      Upon two brethren's shoulders she did ride,
      The twins of Leda, which, on eyther side,
      Supported her like to their Sovereign queene
      Lord! how all creatures laught when her they spide,
      And leapt and danced as they had ravisht beene!
    And Cupid's self about her fluttred all in greene.

Here are a few lines from Herrick.

    Fled are the frosts, and now the fields appeare
    Re-clothed in freshe and verdant diaper;
    Thawed are the snowes, and now the lusty spring
    Gives to each mead a neat enameling,
    The palmes[058] put forth their gemmes, and every tree
    Now swaggers in her leavy gallantry.

The Queen of May--Lady Flora--was the British representative of the Heathen Goddess Flora.
May still returns and ever will return at her proper season, with all her bright leaves and
fragrant blossoms, but men cease to make the same use of them as of yore. England is waxing
utilitarian and prosaic.

The poets, let others neglect her as they will, must ever do fitting observance, in songs as
lovely and fresh as the flowers of the hawthorn,

    To the lady of the vernal hours.

Poor Keats, who was passionately fond of flowers, and everything beautiful or romantic or picturesque,
complains, with a true poet's earnestness, that in his day in England there were

    No crowds of nymphs, soft-voiced and young and gay
    In woven baskets, bringing ears of corn,
    Roses and pinks and violets, to adorn
    The shrine of Flora in her early May.

The Floral Games--Jeux Floraux--of Toulouse--first celebrated at the commencement of the fourteenth
century, are still kept up annually with great pomp and spirit. Clemence Isaure, a French lady,
bequeathed to the Academy of Toulouse a large sum of money for the annual celebration of these
games. A sort of College Council is formed, which not only confers degrees on those poets who
do most honor to the Goddess Flora, but sometimes grants them more substantial favors. In 1324
the poets were encouraged to compete for a golden violet and a silver eglantine and pansy.
A century later the prizes offered were an amaranthus of gold of the value of 400 livres, for
the best ode, a violet of silver, valued at 250 livres, for an essay in prose, a silver pansy,
worth 200 livres, for an eclogue, elegy or idyl, and a silver lily of the value of sixty livres,
for the best sonnet or hymn in honor of the Virgin Mary,--for religion is mixed up with merriment,
and heathen with Christian rites. He who gained a prize three times was honored with the title
of Doctor en gaye science, the name given to the poetry of the Provençal troubadours. A mass,
a sermon, and alms-giving, commence the ceremonies. The French poet, Ronsard who had gained
a prize in the floral games, so delighted Mary Queen of Scots with his verses on the Rose that
she presented him with a silver rose worth £500, with this inscription--"A Ronsard, l'Apollon
de la source des Muses."

At Ghent floral festivals are held twice a year when amateur and professional florists assemble
together and contribute each his share of flowers to the grand general exhibition which is
under the direct patronage of the public authorities. Honorary medals are awarded to the possessors
of the finest flowers.

The chief floral festival of the Chinese is on their new year's day, when their rivers are
covered with boats laden with flowers, and gay flags streaming from every mast. Their homes
and temples are richly hung with festoons of flowers. Boughs of the peach and plum trees in
blossom, enkíanthus quinque-flòra, camelias, cockscombs, magnolias, jonquils are then exposed
for sale in all the streets of Canton. Even the Chinese ladies, who are visible at no other
season, are seen on this occasion in flower-boats on the river or in the public gardens on
the shore.

The Italians, it is said, still have artificers called Festaroli, whose business it is to prepare
festoons and garlands. The ancient Romans were very tasteful in their nosegays and chaplets.
Pliny tells us that the Sicyonians were especially celebrated for the graceful art exhibited
in the arrangement of the varied colors of their garlands, and he gives us the story of Glycera
who, to please her lover Pausias, the painter of Sicyon, used to send him the most exquisite
chaplets of her own braiding, which he regularly copied on his canvas. He became very eminent
as a flower-painter. The last work of his pencil, and his master-piece, was a picture of his
mistress in the act of arranging a chaplet. The picture was called the Garland Twiner. It is
related that Antony for some time mistrusting Cleopatra made her taste in the first instance
every thing presented to him at her banquets. One day "the Serpent of old Nile" after dipping
her own coronet of flowers into her goblet drank up the wine and then directed him to follow
her example. He was off his guard. He dipped his chaplet in his cup. The leaves had been touched
with poison. He was just raising the cup to his lips when she seized his arm, and said "Cease
your jealous doubts, for know, that if I had desired your death or wished to live without you,
I could easily have destroyed you." The Queen then ordered a prisoner to be brought into their
presence, who being made to drink from the cup, instantly expired.[059]

Some of the nosegays made up by "flower-girls" in London and its neighbourhood are sold at
such extravagant prices that none but the very wealthy are in the habit of purchasing them,
though sometimes a poor lover is tempted to present his mistress on a ball-night with a bouquet
that he can purchase only at the cost of a good many more leaves of bread or substantial meals
than he can well spare. He has to make every day a banian-day for perhaps half a month that
his mistress may wear a nosegay for a few hours. However, a lover is often like a cameleon
and can almost live on air--for a time--"promise-crammed." 'You cannot feed capons so.'

At Covent Garden Market, (in London) and the first-rate Flower-shops, a single wreath or nosegay
is often made up for the head or hand at a price that would support a poor labourer and his
family for a month. The colors of the wreaths are artfully arranged, so as to suit different
complexions, and so also as to exhibit the most rare and costly flowers to the greatest possible
advantage.

All true poets

            --The sages
    Who have left streaks of light athwart their pages--

have contemplated flowers--with a passionate love, an ardent admiration; none more so than
the sweet-souled Shakespeare. They are regarded by the imaginative as the fairies of the vegetable
world--the physical personifications of etherial beauty. In The Winter's Tale our great dramatic
bard has some delightful floral allusions that cannot be too often quoted. The poets almost
always allude to the primrose as a pale and interesting invalid. Milton tells us of

    The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose[060]

The poet in the manuscript of his Lycidas had at first made the primrose "die unwedded," which
was a pretty close copy of Shakespeare. Milton afterwards struck out the word "unwedded," and
substituted the word "forsaken." The reason why the primrose was said to "die unmarried," is,
according to Warton, because it grows in the shade uncherished or unseen by the sun, who was
supposed to be in love with certain sorts of flowers. Ben Jonson, however, describes the primrose
as a wedded lady--"the Spring's own Spouse"--though she is certainly more commonly regarded
as the daughter of Spring not the wife. J Fletcher gives her the true parentage:--

    Primrose, first born child of Ver

There are some kinds of primroses, that are not pale. There is a species in Scotland, which
is of a deep purple. And even in England (in some of the northern counties) there is a primrose,
the bird's-eye primrose, (Primula farinosa,) of which the blossom is lilac colored and the
leaves musk-scented.

In Sweden they call the Primrose The key of May.

The primrose is always a great favorite with imaginative and sensitive observers, but there
are too many people who look upon the beautiful with a utilitarian eye, or like Wordsworth's
Peter Bell regard it with perfect indifference.

    A primrose by the river's brim
    A yellow primrose was to him.
    And it was nothing more.

I have already given one anecdote of a utilitarian; but I may as well give two more anecdotes
of a similar character. Mrs. Wordsworth was in a grove, listening to the cooing of the stock-doves,
and associating their music with the remembrance of her husband's verses to a stock-dove, when
a farmer's wife passing by exclaimed, "Oh, I do like stock-doves!" The woman won the heart
of the poet's wife at once; but she did not long retain it. "Some people," continued the speaker,
"like 'em in a pie; for my part I think there's nothing like 'em stewed in inions." This was
a rustic utilitarian. Here is an instance of a very different sort of utilitarianism--the utilitarianism
of men who lead a gay town life. Sir W.H. listened, patiently for some time to a poetical-minded
friend who was rapturously expatiating upon the delicious perfume of a bed of violets; "Oh
yes," said Sir W. at last, "its all very well, but for my part I very much prefer the smell
of a flambeau at the theatre." But intellects far more capacious than that of Sir W.H. have
exhibited the same indifference to the beautiful in nature. Locke and Jeremy Bentham and even
Sir Isaac Newton despised all poetry. And yet God never meant man to be insensible to the beautiful
or the poetical. "Poetry, like truth," says Ebenezer Elliot, "is a common flower: God has sown
it over the earth, like the daisies sprinkled with tears or glowing in the sun, even as he
places the crocus and the March frosts together and beautifully mingles life and death." If
the finer and more spiritual faculties of men were as well cultivated or exercised as are their
colder and coarser faculties there would be fewer utilitarians. But the highest part of our
nature is too much neglected in all our systems of education. Of the beauty and fragrance of
flowers all earthly creatures except man are apparently meant to be unconscious. The cattle
tread down or masticate the fairest flowers without a single "compunctious visiting of nature."
This excites no surprize. It is no more than natural. But it is truly painful and humiliating
to see any human being as insensible as the beasts of the field to that poetry of the world
which God seems to have addressed exclusively to the heart and soul of man.

In South Wales the custom of strewing all kinds of flowers over the graves of departed friends,
is preserved to the present day. Shakespeare, it appears, knew something of the customs of
that part of his native country and puts the following flowery speech into the mouth of the
young Prince, Arviragus, who was educated there.

Cymbeline.

Here are two more flower-passages from Shakespeare.

    Here's a few flowers; but about midnight more;
    The herbs that have on them cold dew o' the night
    Are strewings fitt'st for graves.--Upon their faces:--
    You were as flowers; now withered; even so
    These herblets shall, which we upon you strow.

Cymbeline.

    Sweets to the sweet. Farewell!
    I hoped thou shoulds't have been my Hamlet's wife;
    I thought thy bride-bed to have decked, sweet maid,
    And not t' have strewed thy grave.

Hamlet.

Flowers are peculiarly suitable ornaments for the grave, for as Evelyn truly says, "they are
just emblems of the life of man, which has been compared in Holy Scripture to those fading
creatures, whose roots being buried in dishonor rise again in glory."[061]

This thought is natural and just. It is indeed a most impressive sight, a most instructive
pleasure, to behold some "bright consummate flower" rise up like a radiant exhalation or a
beautiful vision--like good from evil--with such stainless purity and such dainty loveliness,
from the hot-bed of corruption.

Milton turns his acquaintance with flowers to divine account in his Lycidas.

                          Return; Sicilian Muse,
    And call the vales, and bid them hither cast
    Their bells and flowerets of a thousand hues.
    Infinite varieties, delicacies, smells,
    With hues on hues expression cannot paint,
    The breath of Nature and her endless bloom.

Here are two bouquets of flowers from the garden of Cowper

                            Laburnum, rich
    In streaming gold, syringa, ivory pure,
    The scentless and the scented rose, this red,
    And of an humbler growth, the other[063] tall,
    And throwing up into the darkest gloom
    Of neighboring cypress, or more sable yew,
    Her silver globes, light as the foamy surf
    That the wind severs from the broken wave,
    The lilac, various in array, now white,
    Now sanguine, and her beauteous head now set
    With purple spikes pyramidal, as if
    Studious of ornament yet unresolved
    Which hue she most approved, she chose them all,
    Copious of flowers the woodbine, pale and wan,
    But well compensating her sickly looks
    With never cloying odours, early and late,
    Hypericum all bloom, so thick a swarm
    Of flowers, like flies clothing her slender rods,
    That scarce a loaf appears, mezereon too,
    Though leafless, well attired, and thick beset
    With blushing wreaths, investing every spray,
    Althaea with the purple eye, the broom
    Yellow and bright, as bullion unalloy'd,
    Her blossoms, and luxuriant above all
    The jasmine, throwing wide her elegant sweets,
    The deep dark green of whose unvarnish'd leaf
    Makes more conspicuous, and illumines more,
    The bright profusion of her scatter'd stars

       *       *       *       *       *

    Th' amomum there[064] with intermingling flowers
    And cherries hangs her twigs. Geranium boasts
    Her crimson honors, and the spangled beau
    Ficoides, glitters bright the winter long
    All plants, of every leaf, that can endure
    The winter's frown, if screened from his shrewd bite,
    Live their and prosper. For this lily
    Where can it hang but it Cyane's breast?
    And yet twill wither on so white a bed,
    If flowers have sense of envy.--It shall be
    Amongst thy raven tresses, Cytheris,
    Like one star on the bosom of the night
    The cowslip and the yellow primrose,--they
    Are gone, my sad Leontia, to their graves,
    And April hath wept o'er them, and the voice
    Of March hath sung, even before their deaths
    The dirge of those young children of the year
    But here is hearts ease for your woes. And now,
    The honey suckle flower I give to thee,
    And love it for my sake, my own Cyane
    It hangs upon the stem it loves, as thou
    Hast clung to me, through every joy and sorrow,
    It flourishes with its guardian growth, as thou dost,
    And if the woodman's axe should droop the tree,
    The woodbine too must perish.

Barry Cornwall

Let me add to the above heap of floral beauty a basket of flowers from Leigh Hunt.

    Then the flowers on all their beds--
    How the sparklers glance their heads,
    Daisies with their pinky lashes
    And the marigolds broad flashes,
    Hyacinth with sapphire bell
    Curling backward, and the swell
    Of the rose, full lipped and warm,
    Bound about whose riper form
    Her slender virgin train are seen
    In their close fit caps of green,
    Lilacs then, and daffodillies,
    And the nice leaved lesser lilies
    Shading, like detected light,
    Their little green-tipt lamps of white;
    Blissful poppy, odorous pea,
    With its wing up lightsomely;
    Balsam with his shaft of amber,
    Mignionette for lady's chamber,
    And genteel geranium,
    With a leaf for all that come;
    And the tulip tricked out finest,
    And the pink of smell divinest;
    And as proud as all of them
    Bound in one, the garden's gem
    Hearts-ease, like a gallant bold
    In his cloth of purple and gold.

Lady Mary Wortley Montague, who introduced inoculation into England--a practically useful boon
to us,--had also the honor to be amongst the first to bring from the East to the West an elegant
amusement--the Language of Flowers.[065]

    Then he took up his garland, and did show
    What every flower, as country people hold,
    Did signify; and how all, ordered thus,
    Expressed his grief: and, to my thoughts, did read
    The prettiest lecture of his country art
    That could be wished.

Beaumont's and Fletcher's "Philaster."

       *       *       *       *       *

    There from richer banks
    Culling out flowers, which in a learned order
    Do become characters, whence they disclose
    Their mutual meanings, garlands then and nosegays
    Being framed into epistles.

Cartwright's "Love's Covenant."

       *       *       *       *       *

    An exquisite invention this,
    Worthy of Love's most honied kiss,
    This art of writing billet-doux
    In buds and odours and bright hues,
    In saying all one feels and thinks
    In clever daffodils and pinks,
    Uttering (as well as silence may,)
    The sweetest words the sweetest way.

Leigh Hunt.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Yet, no--not words, for they
    But half can tell love's feeling;
    Sweet flowers alone can say
    What passion fears revealing.[066]
    A once bright rose's withered leaf--
    A towering lily broken--
    Oh, these may paint a grief
    No words could e'er have spoken.

Moore.

       *       *       *       *       *

    By all those token flowers that tell
    What words can ne'er express so well.

Byron.

       *       *       *       *       *

    A mystic language, perfect in each part.
    Made up of bright hued thoughts and perfumed speeches.

Adams.

If we are to believe Shakespeare it is not human beings only who use a floral language:--

    Fairies use flowers for their charactery.

Sir Walter Scott tells us that:--

    The myrtle bough bids lovers live--

A sprig of hawthorn has the same meaning as a sprig of myrtle: it gives hope to the lover--the
sweet heliotrope tells the depth of his passion,--if he would charge his mistress with levity
he presents the larkspur,--and a leaf of nettle speaks her cruelty. Poor Ophelia (in Hamlet)
gives rosemary for remembrance, and pansies (pensees) for thoughts. The laurel indicates victory
in war or success with the Muses,

    "The meed of mighty conquerors and poets sage."

The ivy wreathes the brows of criticism. The fresh vine-leaf cools the hot forehead of the
bacchanal. Bergamot and jessamine imply the fragrance of friendship.

The Olive is the emblem of peace--the Laurel, of glory--the Rue, of grace or purification (Ophelia's
Herb of Grace O'Sundays)--the Primrose, of the spring of human life--the Bud of the White Rose,
of Girl-hood,--the full blossom of the Red Rose, of consummate beauty--the Daisy, of innocence,--the
Butter-cup, of gold--the Houstania, of content--the Heliotrope, of devotion in love--the Cross
of Jerusalem, of devotion in religion--the Forget-me-not, of fidelity--the Myrrh, of gladness--the
Yew, of sorrow--the Michaelmas Daisy, of cheerfulness in age--the Chinese Chrysanthemum, of
cheerfulness in adversity--the Yellow Carnation, of disdain--the Sweet Violet, of modesty--the
white Chrysanthemum, of truth--the Sweet Sultan, of felicity--the Sensitive Plant, of maiden
shyness--the Yellow Day Lily, of coquetry--the Snapdragon, of presumption--the Broom, of humility--the
Amaryllis, of pride--the Grass, of submission--the Fuschia, of taste--the Verbena, of sensibility--the
Nasturtium, of splendour--the Heath, of solitude--the Blue Periwinkle, of early friendship--the
Honey-suckle, of the bond of love--the Trumpet Flower, of fame--the Amaranth, of immortality--the
Adonis, of sorrowful remembrance,--and the Poppy, of oblivion.

The Witch-hazel indicates a spell,--the Cape Jasmine says I'm too happy--the Laurestine, I
die if I am neglected--the American Cowslip, You are a divinity--the Volkamenica Japonica,
May you be happy--the Rose-colored Chrysanthemum, I love,--and the Venus' Car, Fly with me.

For the following illustrations of the language of flowers I am indebted to a useful and well
conducted little periodical published in London and entitled the Family Friend;--the work is
a great favorite with the fair sex.

"Of the floral grammar, the first rule to be observed is, that the pronoun I or me is expressed
by inclining the symbol flower to the left, and the pronoun thou or thee by inclining it to
the right. When, however, it is not a real flower offered, but a representation upon paper,
these positions must be reversed, so that the symbol leans to the heart of the person whom
it is to signify.

The second rule is, that the opposite of a particular sentiment expressed by a flower presented
upright is denoted when the symbol is reversed; thus a rose-bud sent upright, with its thorns
and leaves, means, "I fear, but I hope." If the bud is returned upside down, it means, "You
must neither hope nor fear." Should the thorns, however, be stripped off, the signification
is, "There is everything to hope;" but if stript of its leaves, "There is everything to fear."
By this it will be seen that the expression of almost all flowers may be varied by a change
in their positions, or an alteration of their state or condition. For example, the marigold
flower placed in the hand signifies "trouble of spirits;" on the heart, "trouble or love;"
on the bosom, "weariness." The pansy held upright denotes "heart's ease;" reversed, it speaks
the contrary. When presented upright, it says, "Think of me;" and when pendent, "Forget me."
So, too, the amaryllis, which is the emblem of pride, may be made to express, "My pride is
humbled," or, "Your pride is checked," by holding it downwards, and to the right or left, as
the sense requires. Then, again, the wallflower, which is the emblem of fidelity in misfortune,
if presented with the stalk upward, would intimate that the person to whom it was turned was
unfaithful in the time of trouble.

The third rule has relation to the manner in which certain words may be represented; as, for
instance, the articles, by tendrils with single, double, and treble branches, as under--

The numbers are represented by leaflets running from one to eleven, as thus--

From eleven to twenty, berries are added to the ten leaves thus--

From twenty to one hundred, compound leaves are added to the other ten for the decimals, and
berries stand for the odd numbers so--

A hundred is represented by ten tens; and this may be increased by a third leaflet and a branch
of berries up to 999.

A thousand may be symbolized by a frond of fern, having ten or more leaves, and to this a common
leaflet may be added to increase the number of thousands. In this way any given number may
be represented in foliage, such as the date of a year in which a birthday, or other event,
occurs, to which it is desirable to make allusion, in an emblematic wreath or floral picture.
Thus, if I presented my love with a mute yet eloquent expression of good wishes on her eighteenth
birthday, I should probably do it in this wise:--Within an evergreen wreath (lasting as my
affection), consisting of ten leaflets and eight berries (the age of the beloved), I would
place a red rose bud (pure and lovely), or a white lily (pure and modest), its spotless petals
half concealing a ripe strawberry (perfect excellence); and to this I might add a blossom of
the rose-scented geranium (expressive of my preference), a peach blossom to say "I am your
captive" fern for sincerity, and perhaps bachelor's buttons for hope in love"--Family Friend.

There are many anecdotes and legends and classical fables to illustrate the history of shrubs
and flowers, and as they add something to the peculiar interest with which we regard individual
plants, they ought not to be quite passed over by the writers upon Floriculture.

THE FLOS ADONIS.

The Flos Adonis, a blood-red flower of the Anemone tribe, is one of the many plants which,
according to ancient story sprang from the tears of Venus and the blood of her coy favorite.

    Rose cheeked Adonis hied him to the chase
    Hunting he loved, but love he laughed to scorn

Shakespeare.

Venus, the Goddess of Beauty, the mother of Love, the Queen of Laughter, the Mistress of the
Graces and the Pleasures, could make no impression on the heart of the beautiful son of Myrrha,
(who was changed into a myrrh tree,) though the passion-stricken charmer looked and spake with
the lip and eye of the fairest of the immortals. Shakespeare, in his poem of Venus and Adonis,
has done justice to her burning eloquence, and the lustre of her unequalled loveliness. She
had most earnestly, and with all a true lover's care entreated Adonis to avoid the dangers
of the chase, but he slighted all her warnings just as he had slighted her affections. He was
killed by a wild boar. Shakespeare makes Venus thus lament over the beautiful dead body as
it lay on the blood-stained grass.

    Alas, poor world, what treasure hast thou lost!
    What face remains alive that's worth the viewing?
    Whose tongue is music now? What can'st thou boast
    Of things long since, or any thing ensuing?
    The flowers are sweet, their colors fresh and trim,
    But true sweet beauty lived and died with him.

In her ecstacy of grief she prophecies that henceforth all sorts of sorrows shall be attendants
upon love,--and alas! she was too correct an oracle.

    The course of true love never does run smooth.

Here is Shakespeare's version of the metamorphosis of Adonis into a flower.

    By this the boy that by her side lay killed
    Was melted into vapour from her sight,
    And in his blood that on the ground lay spilled,
    A purple flower sprang up, checquered with white,
    Resembling well his pale cheeks, and the blood
    Which in round drops upon their whiteness stood.

    She bows her head, the new sprung flower to smell,
    Comparing it to her Adonis' breath,
    And says, within her bosom it shall dwell
    Since he himself is reft from her by death;
    She crops the stalk, and in the branch appears
    Green dropping sap which she compares to tears.

The reader may like to contrast this account of the change from human into floral beauty with
the version of the same story in Ovid as translated by Eusden.

    Then on the blood sweet nectar she bestows,
    The scented blood in little bubbles rose;
    Little as rainy drops, which fluttering fly,
    Borne by the winds, along a lowering sky,
    Short time ensued, till where the blood was shed,
    A flower began to rear its purple head

    Such, as on Punic apples is revealed
    Or in the filmy rind but half concealed,
    Still here the fate of lonely forms we see,
    So sudden fades the sweet Anemone.
    The feeble stems to stormy blasts a prey
    Their sickly beauties droop, and pine away
    The winds forbid the flowers to flourish long
    Which owe to winds their names in Grecian song.

The concluding couplet alludes to the Grecian name of the flower ([Greek: anemos], anemos,
the wind.)

It is said of the Anemone that it never opens its lips until Zephyr kisses them. Sir William
Jones alludes to its short-lived beauty.

    Youth, like a thin anemone, displays
    His silken leaf, and in a morn decays.

Horace Smith speaks of

    The coy anemone that ne'er discloses
    Her lips until they're blown on by the wind

Plants open out their leaves to breathe the air just as eagerly as they throw down their roots
to suck up the moisture of the earth. Dr. Linley, indeed says, "they feed more by their leaves
than their roots." I lately met with a curious illustration of the fact that plants draw a
larger proportion of their nourishment from light and air than is commonly supposed. I had
a beautiful convolvulus growing upon a trellis work in an upper verandah with a south-western
aspect. The root of the plant was in pots. The convolvulus growing too luxuriantly and encroaching
too much upon the space devoted to a creeper of another kind, I separated its upper branches
from the root and left them to die. The leaves began to fade the second day and most of them
were quite dead the third or fourth day, but two or three of the smallest retained a sickly
life for some days more. The buds or rather chalices outlived the leaves. The chalices continued
to expand every morning, for--I am afraid to say how long a time--it might seem perfectly incredible.
The convolvulus is a plant of a rather delicate character and I was perfectly astonished at
its tenacity of life in this case. I should mention that this happened in the rainy season
and that the upper part of the creeper was partially protected from the sun.

The Anemone seems to have been a great favorite with Mrs. Hemans. She thus addresses it.

    Flower! The laurel still may shed
    Brightness round the victor's head,
    And the rose in beauty's hair
    Still its festal glory wear;
    And the willow-leaves droop o'er
    Brows which love sustains no more
    But by living rays refined,
    Thou the trembler of the wind,
    Thou, the spiritual flower
    Sentient of each breeze and shower,[067]
    Thou, rejoicing in the skies
    And transpierced with all their dyes;
    Breathing-vase with light o'erflowing,
    Gem-like to thy centre flowing,
    Thou the Poet's type shall be
    Flower of soul, Anemone!

The common anemone was known to the ancients but the finest kind was introduced into France
from the East Indies, by Monsieur Bachelier, an eminent Florist. He seems to have been a person
of a truly selfish disposition, for he refused to share the possession of his floral treasure
with any of his countrymen. For ten years the new anemone from the East was to be seen no where
in Europe but in Monsieur Bachelier's parterre. At last a counsellor of the French Parliament
disgusted with the florist's selfishness, artfully contrived when visiting the garden to drop
his robe upon the flower in such a manner as to sweep off some of the seeds. The servant, who
was in his master's secret, caught up the robe and carried it away. The trick succeeded; and
the counsellor shared the spoils with all his friends through whose agency the plant was multiplied
in all parts of Europe.

THE OLIVE.

The OLIVE is generally regarded as an emblem of peace, and should have none but pleasant associations
connected with it, but Ovid alludes to a wild species of this tree into which a rude and licentious
fellow was converted as a punishment for "banishing the fair," with indecent words and gestures.
The poet tells us of a secluded grotto surrounded by trembling reeds once frequented by the
wood-nymphs of the sylvan race:--

    Till Appulus with a dishonest air
    And gross behaviour, banished thence the fair.
    The bold buffoon, whene'er they tread the green,
    Their motion mimics, but with jest obscene;
    Loose language oft he utters; but ere long
    A bark in filmy net-work binds his tongue;
    Thus changed, a base wild olive he remains;
    The shrub the coarseness of the clown retains.

Garth's Ovid.

The mural of this is excellent. The sentiment reminds me of the Earl of Roscommon's well-known
couplet in his Essay on Translated Verse, a poem now rarely read.

    Immodest words admit of no defense,[068]
    For want of decency is want of sense,

THE HYACINTH.

The HYACINTH has always been a great favorite with the poets, ancient and modern. Homer mentions
the Hyacinth as forming a portion of the materials of the couch of Jove and Juno.

                Flowers were the couch
    Pansies, and Violets, and Asphodel
    And Hyacinth, earth's freshest, softest lap

With the exception of the lotus (so common in Hindustan,) all these flowers, thus celebrated
by the greatest of Grecian poets, and represented as fit luxuries for the gods, are at the
command of the poorest peasant in England. The common Hyacinth is known to the unlearned as
the Harebell, so called from the bell shape of its flowers and from its growing so abundantly
in thickets frequented by hares. Shakespeare, as we have seen, calls it the Blue-bell.

The curling flowers of the Hyacinth, have suggested to our poets the idea of clusters of curling
tresses of hair.

    His fair large front and eye sublime declared
    Absolute rule, and hyacinthine locks
    Round from his parted forelock manly hung,
    Clustering

Milton

    The youths whose locks divinely spreading
    Like vernal hyacinths in sullen hue

Collins

Sir William Jones describes--

    The fragrant hyacinths of Azza's hair,
    That wanton with the laughing summer air.

A similar allusion may also be found in prose.

"It was the exquisitely fair queen Helen, whose jacinth[070] hair, curled by nature, intercurled
by art, like a brook through golden sands, had a rope of fair pearl, which, now hidden by the
hair, did, as it were play at fast and loose each with the other, mutually giving and receiving
richness."--Sir Philip Sidney

"The ringlets so elegantly disposed round the fair countenances of these fair Chiotes [071]
are such as Milton describes by 'hyacinthine locks' crisped and curled like the blossoms of
that flower"

Dallaway

The old fable about Hyacinthus is soon told. Apollo loved the youth and not only instructed
him in literature and the arts, but shared in his pastimes. The divine teacher was one day
playing with his pupil at quoits. Some say that Zephyr (Ovid says it was Boreas) jealous of
the god's influence over young Hyacinthus, wafted the ponderous iron ring from its right course
and caused it to pitch upon the poor boy's head. He fell to the ground a bleeding corpse. Apollo
bade the scarlet hyacinth spring from the blood and impressed upon its leaves the words Ai
Ai, (alas! alas!) the Greek funeral lamentation. Milton alludes to the flower in Lycidas,

    Like to that sanguine flower inscribed with woe.

Drummond had before spoken of

            That sweet flower that bears
    In sanguine spots the tenor of our woes

Hurdis speaks of:

    The melancholy Hyacinth, that weeps
    All night, and never lifts an eye all day.

Ovid, after giving the old fable of Hyacinthus, tells us that "the time shall come when a most
valiant hero shall add his name to this flower." "He alludes," says Mr. Riley, "to Ajax, from
whose blood when he slew himself, a similar flower[072] was said to have arisen with the letters
Ai Ai on its leaves, expressive either of grief or denoting the first two letters of his name
[Greek: Aias]."

    As poets feigned from Ajax's streaming blood
    Arose, with grief inscribed, a mournful flower.

Young.

Endymion.

Our English Hyacinth, it is said, is not entitled to its legendary honors. The words Non Scriptus
were applied to this plant by Dodonaeus, because it had not the Ai Ai upon its petals. Professor
Martyn says that the flower called Lilium Martagon or the Scarlet Turk's Cap is the plant alluded
to by the ancients.

Alphonse Karr, the eloquent French writer, whose "Tour Round my Garden" I recommend to the
perusal of all who can sympathize with reflections and emotions suggested by natural objects,
has the following interesting anecdote illustrative of the force of a floral association:--

"I had in a solitary corner of my garden three hyacinths which my father had planted and which
death did not allow him to see bloom. Every year the period of their flowering was for me a
solemnity, a funeral and religious festival, it was a melancholy remembrance which revived
and reblossomed every year and exhaled certain thoughts with its perfume. The roots are dead
now and nothing lives of this dear association but in my own heart. But what a dear yet sad
privilege man possesses above all created beings, while thus enabled by memory and thought
to follow those whom he loved to the tomb and there shut up the living with the dead. What
a melancholy privilege, and yet is there one amongst us who would lose it? Who is he who would
willingly forget all" A florist at Haarlem enumerates 800 kinds of double-flowered Hyacinths,
besides about 400 varieties of the single kind. It is said that there are altogether upwards
of 2000 varieties of the Hyacinth.

The English are particularly fond of the Hyacinth. It is a domestic flower--a sort of parlour
pet. When in "close city pent" they transfer the bulbs to glass vases (Hyacinth glasses) filled
with water, and place them in their windows in the winter.

An annual solemnity, called Hyacinthia, was held in Laconia in honor of Hyacinthus and Apollo.
It lasted three days. So eagerly was this festival honored, that the soldiers of Laconia even
when they had taken the field against an enemy would return home to celebrate it.

THE NARCISSUS

    Foolish Narcisse, that likes the watery shore

Spenser

With respect to the NARCISSUS, whose name in the floral vocabulary is the synonyme of egotism,
there is a story that must be familiar enough to most of my readers. Narcissus was a beautiful
youth. Teresias, the Soothsayer, foretold that he should enjoy felicity until he beheld his
own face but that the first sight of that would be fatal to him. Every kind of mirror was kept
carefully out of his way. Echo was enamoured of him, but he slighted her love, and she pined
and withered away until she had nothing left her but her voice, and even that could only repeat
the last syllables of other people's sentences. He at last saw his own image reflected in a
fountain, and taking it for that of another, he fell passionately in love with it. He attempted
to embrace it. On seeing the fruitlessness of all his efforts, he killed himself in despair.
When the nymphs raised a funeral pile to burn his body, they found nothing but a flower. That
flower (into which he had been changed) still bears his name.

Here is a little passage about the fable, from the Two Noble Kinsmen of Beaumont and Fletcher.

    Emilia--This garden hath a world of pleasure in it,
              What flower is this?

   Servant--'Tis called Narcissus, Madam.

       Em.--That was a fair boy certain, but a fool
              To love himself, were there not maids,
              Or are they all hard hearted?

       Ser--That could not be to one so fair.

Ben Jonson touches the true moral of the fable very forcibly.

            'Tis now the known disease
    That beauty hath, to hear too deep a sense
    Of her own self conceived excellence
    Oh! had'st thou known the worth of Heaven's rich gift,
    Thou would'st have turned it to a truer use,
    And not (with starved and covetous ignorance)
    Pined in continual eyeing that bright gem
    The glance whereof to others had been more
    Than to thy famished mind the wide world's store.

Gay's version of the fable is as follows:

    Here young Narcissus o'er the fountain stood
    And viewed his image in the crystal flood
    The crystal flood reflects his lovely charms
    And the pleased image strives to meet his arms.
    No nymph his inexperienced breast subdued,
    Echo in vain the flying boy pursued
    Himself alone, the foolish youth admires
    And with fond look the smiling shade desires,
    O'er the smooth lake with fruitless tears he grieves,
    His spreading fingers shoot in verdant leaves,
    Through his pale veins green sap now gently flows,
    And in a short lived flower his beauty glows

Addison has given a full translation of the story of Narcissus from Ovid's Metamorphoses, Book
the third.

The common daffodil of our English fields is of the genus Narcissus. "Pray," said some one
to Pope, "what is this Asphodel of Homer?" "Why, I believe," said Pope "if one was to say the
truth, 'twas nothing else but that poor yellow flower that grows about our orchards, and, if
so, the verse might be thus translated in English

    --The stern Achilles
    Stalked through a mead of daffodillies"

THE LAUREL

Daphne was a beautiful nymph beloved by that very amorous gentleman, Apollo. The love was not
reciprocal. She endeavored to escape his godship's importunities by flight. Apollo overtook
her. She at that instant solicited aid from heaven, and was at once turned into a laurel. Apollo
gathered a wreath from the tree and placing it on his own immortal brows, decreed that from
that hour the laurel should be sacred to his divinity.

THE SUN-FLOWER

    Who can unpitying see the flowery race
    Shed by the morn then newflushed bloom resign,
    Before the parching beam? So fade the fair,
    When fever revels in their azure veins
    But one, the lofty follower of the sun,
    Sad when he sits shuts up her yellow leaves,
    Drooping all night, and when he warm return,
    Points her enamoured bosom to his ray

Thomson.

THE SUN-FLOWER (Helianthus) was once the fair nymph Clytia. Broken-hearted at the falsehood
of her lover, Apollo, (who has so many similar sins to answer for) she pined away and died.
When it was too late Apollo's heart relented, and in honor of true affection he changed poor
Clytia into a Sun-flower.[073] It is sometimes called Tourne-sol--a word that signifies turning
to the sun. Thomas Moore helps to keep the old story in remembrance by the concluding couplet
of one of his sweetest ballads.

    Oh! the heart that has truly loved never forgets,
    But as truly loves on to its close
    As the sun flower turns on her god when he sets
    The same look that she turned when he rose

But Moore has here poetized a vulgar error. Most plants naturally turn towards the light, but
the sun-flower (in spite of its name) is perhaps less apt to turn itself towards Apollo than
the majority of other flowers for it has a stiff stem and a number of heavy heads. At all events
it does not change its attitude in the course of the day. The flower-disk that faces the morning
sun has it back to it in the evening.

Gerard calls the sun-flower "The Flower of the Sun or the Marigold of Peru". Speaking of it
in the year 1596 he tells us that he had some in his own garden in Holborn that had grown to
the height of fourteen feet.

THE WALL-FLOWER

    The weed is green, when grey the wall,
    And blossoms rise where turrets fall

Herrick gives us a pretty version of the story of the WALL-FLOWER, (cheiranthus cheiri)("the
yellow wall-flower stained with iron brown")

    Why this flower is now called so
    List sweet maids and you shall know
    Understand this firstling was
    Once a brisk and bonny lass
    Kept as close as Danae was
    Who a sprightly springal loved,
    And to have it fully proved,
    Up she got upon a wall
    Tempting down to slide withal,
    But the silken twist untied,
    So she fell, and bruised and died
    Love in pity of the deed
    And her loving, luckless speed,
    Turned her to the plant we call
    Now, 'The Flower of the Wall'

The wall-flower is the emblem of fidelity in misfortune, because it attaches itself to fallen
towers and gives a grace to ruin. David Moir (the Delta of Blackwood's Magazine) has a poem
on this flower. I must give one stanza of it.

    In the season of the tulip cup
    When blossoms clothe the trees,
    How sweet to throw the lattice up
    And scent thee on the breeze;
    The butterfly is then abroad,
    The bee is on the wing,
    And on the hawthorn by the road
    The linnets sit and sing.

Lord Bacon observes that wall-flowers are very delightful when set under the parlour window
or a lower chamber window. They are delightful, I think, any where.

THE JESSAMINE.

    The Jessamine, with which the Queen of flowers,
    To charm her god[074] adorns his favorite bowers,
    Which brides, by the plain hand of neatness dressed--
    Unenvied rivals!--wear upon their breast;
    Sweet as the incense of the morn, and chaste
    As the pure zone which circles Dian's waist.

Churchill.

The elegant and fragrant JESSAMINE, or Jasmine, (Jasmimum Officinale) with its "bright profusion
of scattered stars," is said to have passed from East to West. It was originally a native of
Hindustan, but it is now to be found in every clime, and is a favorite in all. There are many
varieties of it in Europe. In Italy it is woven into bridal wreaths and is used on all festive
occasions. There is a proverbial saying there, that she who is worthy of being decorated with
jessamine is rich enough for any husband. Its first introduction into that sunny land is thus
told. A certain Duke of Tuscany, the first possessor of a plant of this tribe, wished to preserve
it as an unique, and forbade his gardener to give away a single sprig of it. But the gardener
was a more faithful lover than servant and was more willing to please a young mistress than
an old master. He presented the young girl with a branch of jessamine on her birth-day. She
planted it in the ground; it took root, and grew and blossomed. She multiplied the plant by
cuttings, and by the sale of these realized a little fortune, which her lover received as her
marriage dowry.

In England the bride wears a coronet of intermingled orange blossom and jessamine. Orange flowers
indicate chastity, and the jessamine, elegance and grace.

THE ROSE.

    For here the rose expands
    Her paradise of leaves.

Southey.

The ROSE, (Rosa) the Queen of Flowers, was given by Cupid to Harpocrates, the God of Silence,
as a bribe, to prevent him from betraying the amours of Venus. A rose suspended from the ceiling
intimates that all is strictly confidential that passes under it. Hence the phrase--under the
Rose[075].

The rose was raised by Flora from the remains of a favorite nymph. Venus and the Graces assisted
in the transformation of the nymph into a flower. Bacchus supplied streams of nectar to its
root, and Vertumnus showered his choicest perfumes on its head.

The loves of the Nightingale and the Rose have been celebrated by the Muses of many lands.
An Eastern poet says "You may place a hundred handfuls of fragrant herbs and flowers before
the Nightingale; yet he wishes not, in his constant heart, for more than the sweet breath of
his beloved Rose."

The Turks say that the rose owes its origin to a drop of perspiration that fell from the person
of their prophet Mahommed.

The classical legend runs that the rose was at first of a pure white, but a rose-thorn piercing
the foot of Venus when she was hastening to protect Adonis from the rage of Mars, her blood
dyed the flower. Spenser alludes to this legend:

    White as the native rose, before the change
    Which Venus' blood did on her leaves impress.

Spenser.

Milton says that in Paradise were,

    Flowers of all hue, and without thorns the rose.

According to Zoroaster there was no thorn on the rose until Ahriman (the Evil One) entered
the world.

Here is Dr. Hooker's account of the origin of the red rose.

    To sinless Eve's admiring sight
    The rose expanded snowy white,
    When in the ecstacy of bliss
    She gave the modest flower a kiss,
    And instantaneous, lo! it drew
    From her red lip its blushing hue;
    While from her breath it sweetness found,
    And spread new fragrance all around.

This reminds me of a passage in Mrs. Barrett Browning's Drama of Exile in which she makes Eve say--

                --For was I not
    At that last sunset seen in Paradise,
    When all the westering clouds flashed out in throngs
    Of sudden angel-faces, face by face,
    All hushed and solemn, as a thought of God
    Held them suspended,--was I not, that hour
    The lady of the world, princess of life,
    Mistress of feast and favour? Could I touch
    A Rose with my white hand, but it became
    Redder at once?

Another poet. (Mr. C. Cooke) tells us that a species of red rose with all her blushing honors
full upon her, taking pity on a very pale maiden, changed complexions with the invalid and
became herself as white as snow.

Byron expressed a wish that all woman-kind had but one rosy mouth, that he might kiss all woman-kind
at once. This, as some one has rightly observed, is better than Caligula's wish that all mankind
had but one head that he might cut it off at a single blow.

Leigh Hunt has a pleasant line about the rose:

    And what a red mouth hath the rose, the woman of the flowers!

In the Malay language the same word signifies flowers and women.

Human beauty and the rose are ever suggesting images of each other to the imagination of the
poets. Shakespeare has a beautiful description of the two little princes sleeping together
in the Tower of London.

    Their lips were four red roses on a stalk
    That in their summer beauty kissed each other.

William Browne (our Devonshire Pastoral Poet) has a rosy description of a kiss:--

                To her Amyntas
    Came and saluted; never man before
    More blest, nor like this kiss hath been another
    But when two dangling cherries kist each other;
    Nor ever beauties, like, met at such closes,
    But in the kisses of two damask roses.

Here is something in the same spirit from Crashaw.

                            So have I seen
    Two silken sister-flowers consult and lay
    Their bashful cheeks together; newly they
    Peeped from their buds, showed like the garden's eyes
    Scarce waked, like was the crimson of their joys,
    Like were the tears they wept, so like that one
    Seemed but the other's kind reflection.

Loudon says that there is a rose called the York and Lancaster which when, it comes true has
one half of the flower red and the other half white. It was named in commemoration of the two
houses at the marriage of Henry VII. of Lancaster with Elizabeth of York.

Anacreon devotes one of his longest and best odes to the laudation of the Rose. Such innumerable
translations have been made of it that it is now too well known for quotation in this place.
Thomas Moore in his version of the ode gives in a foot-note the following translation of a
fragment of the Lesbian poetess.

    If Jove would give the leafy bowers
    A queen for all their world of flowers
    The Rose would be the choice of Jove,
    And blush the queen of every grove
    Sweetest child of weeping morning,
    Gem the vest of earth adorning,
    Eye of gardens, light of lawns,
    Nursling of soft summer dawns
    June's own earliest sigh it breathes,
    Beauty's brow with lustre wreathes,
    And to young Zephyr's warm caresses
    Spreads abroad its verdant tresses,
    Till blushing with the wanton's play
    Its cheeks wear e'en a redder ray.

From the idea of excellence attached to this Queen of Flowers arose, as Thomas Moore observes,
the pretty proverbial expression used by Aristophanes--you have spoken roses, a phrase adds
the English poet, somewhat similar to the dire des fleurettes of the French.

The Festival of the Rose is still kept up in many villages of France and Switzerland. On a
certain day of every year the young unmarried women assemble and undergo a solemn trial before
competent judges, the most virtuous and industrious girl obtains a crown of roses. In the valley
of Engandine, in Switzerland, a man accused of a crime but proved to be not guilty, is publicly
presented by a young maiden with a white rose called the Rose of Innocence.

Of the truly elegant Moss Rose I need say nothing myself; it has been so amply honored by far
happier pens than mine. Here is a very ingenious and graceful story of its origin. The lines
are from the German.

Madame de Genlis tells us that during her first visit to England she saw a moss-rose for the
first time in her life, and that when she took it back to Paris it gave great delight to her
fellow-citizens, who said it was the first that had ever been seen in that city. Madame de
Latour says that Madame de Genlis was mistaken, for the moss-rose came originally from Provence
and had been known to the French for ages.

The French are said to have cultivated the Rose with extraordinary care and success. It was
the favorite flower of the Empress Josephine, who caused her own name to be traced in the parterres
at Malmaison with a plantation of the rarest roses. In the royal rosary at Versailles there
are standards eighteen feet high grafted with twenty different varieties of the rose.

With the Romans it was no metaphor but an allusion to a literal fact when they talked of sleeping
upon beds of roses. Cicero in his third oration against Verres, when charging the proconsul
with luxurious habits, stated that he had made the tour of Sicily seated upon roses. And Seneca
says, of course jestingly, that a Sybarite of the name of Smyrndiride was unable to sleep if
one of the rose-petals on his bed happened to be curled! At a feast which Cleopatra gave to
Marc Antony the floor of the hall was covered with fresh roses to the depth of eighteen inches.
At a fête given by Nero at Baiae the sum of four millions of sesterces or about 20,000l. was
incurred for roses. The Natives of India are fond of the rose, and are lavish in their expenditure
at great festivals, but I suppose that no millionaire amongst them ever spent such an amount
of money as this upon flowers alone.[076]

I shall close the poetical quotations on the Rose with one of
Shakespeare's sonnets.
    The canker-blooms have full as deep a dye
    As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
    Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly,
    When summer's breath their masked buds discloses;
    But for their virtue only is their show,
    They live unwoo'd and unrespected fade;
    Die to themselves. Sweet Roses do not so;
    Of then sweet deaths are sweetest odours made:
    And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,
    When that shall fade, my verse distils your truth.

There are many hundred acres of rose trees at Ghazeepore which are cultivated for distillation,
and making "attar." There are large fields of roses in England also, for the manufacture of
rose-water.

There is a story about the origin of attar of Roses. The Princess Nourmahal caused a large
tank, on which she used to be rowed about with the great Mogul, to be filled with rose-water.
The heat of the sun separating the water from the essential oil of the rose, the latter was
observed to be floating on the surface. The discovery was immediately turned to good account.
At Ghazeepoor, the essence, atta or uttar or otto, or whatever it should be called, is obtained
with great simplicity and ease. After the rose water is prepared it is put into large open
vessels which are left out at night. Early in the morning the oil that floats upon the surface
is skimmed off, or sucked up with fine dry cotton wool, put into bottles, and carefully sealed.
Bishop Heber says that to produce one rupee's weight of atta 200,000 well grown roses are required,
and that a rupee's weight sells from 80 to 100 rupees. The atta sold in Calcutta is commonly
adulterated with the oil of sandal wood.

LINNAEA BOREALIS

The LINNAEA BOREALIS, or two horned Linnaea, though a simple Lapland flower, is interesting
to all botanists from its association with the name of the Swedish Sage. It has pretty little
bells and is very fragrant. It is a wild, unobtrusive plant and is very averse to the trim
lawn and the gay flower-border. This little woodland beauty pines away under too much notice.
She prefers neglect, and would rather waste her sweetness on the desert air, than be introduced
into the fashionable lists of Florist's flowers. She shrinks from exposure to the sun. A gentleman
after walking with Linnaeus on the shores of the lake near Charlottendal on a lovely evening,
writes thus "I gathered a small flower and asked if it was the Linnaea borealis. 'Nay,' said
the philosopher, 'she lives not here, but in the middle of our largest woods. She clings with
her little arms to the moss, and seems to resist very gently if you force her from it. She
has a complexion like a milkmaid, and ah! she is very, very sweet and agreeable!"

THE FORGET-ME-NOT

The dear little FORGET-ME-NOT, (myosotis palustris)[077] with its eye of blue, is said to have
derived its touching appellation from a sentimental German story. Two lovers were walking on
the bank of a rapid stream. The lady beheld the flower growing on a little island, and expressed
a passionate desire to possess it. He gallantly plunged into the stream and obtained the flower,
but exhausted by the force of the tide, he had only sufficient strength left as he neared the
shore to fling the flower at the fair one's feet, and exclaim "Forget-me-not!" (Vergiss-mein-nicht.)
He was then carried away by the stream, out of her sight for ever.

THE PERIWINKLE.

The PERIWINKLE (vinca or pervinca) has had its due share of poetical distinction. In France
the common people call it the Witch's violet. It seems to have suggested to Wordsworth an idea
of the consciousness of flowers.

    Through primrose tufts, in that sweet bower,
    The Periwinkle trailed its wreaths,
    And 'tis my faith that every flower
    Enjoys the air it breathes.

Mr. J.L. Merritt, has some complimentary lines on this flower.

    The Periwinkle with its fan-like leaves
    All nicely levelled, is a lovely flower
    Whose dark wreath, myrtle like, young Flora weaves;
                 There's none more rare
    Nor aught more meet to deck a fairy's bower
                 Or grace her hair.

The little blue Periwinkle is rendered especially interesting to the admirers of the genius
of Rousseau by an anecdote that records his emotion on meeting it in one of his botanical excursions.
He had seen it thirty years before in company with Madame de Warens. On meeting its sweet face
again, after so long and eventful an interim, he fell upon his knees, crying out--Ah! voila
de la pervanche!

The Periwinkle was once supposed to be a cure for many diseases. Lord Bacon says that in his
time people afflicted with cramp wore bands of green periwinkle tied about their limbs. It
had also its supposed moral influences. According to Culpepper the leaves of the flower if
eaten by man and wife together would revive between them a lost affection.

THE BASIL.

    Sweet marjoram, with her like, sweet basil, rare for smell.

Drayton.

The BASIL is a plant rendered poetical by the genius which has handled it. Boccaccio and Keats
have made the name of the sweet basil sound pleasantly in the ears of many people who know
nothing of botany. A species of this plant (known in Europe under the botanical name of Ocymum
villosum, and in India as the Toolsee) is held sacred by the Hindus. Toolsee was a disciple
of Vishnu. Desiring to be his wife she excited the jealousy of Lukshmee by whom she was transformed
into the herb named after her.[078]

THE TULIP.

    Tulips, like the ruddy evening streaked.

Southey.

The TULIP (tulipa) is the glory of the garden, as far as color without fragrance can confer
such distinction. Some suppose it to be 'The Lily of the Field' alluded to in the Sermon on
the Mount. It grows wild in Syria.

The name of the tulip is said to be of Turkish origin. It was called Tulipa from its resemblance
to the tulipan or turban.

    What crouds the rich Divan to-day
    With turbaned heads, of every hue
    Bowing before that veiled and awful face
    Like Tulip-beds of different shapes and dyes,
    Bending beneath the invisible west wind's sighs?

Moore.

The reader has probably heard of the Tulipomania once carried to so great an excess in Holland.

    With all his phlegm, it broke a Dutchman's heart,
    At a vast price, with one loved root to part.

Crabbe.

About the middle of the 17th century the city of Haarlem realized in three years ten millions
sterling by the sale of tulips. A single tulip (the Semper Augustus) was sold for one thousand
pounds. Twelve acres of land were given for a single root and engagements to the amount of
£5,000 were made for a first-class tulip when the mania was at its height. A gentleman, who
possessed a tulip of great value, hearing that some one was in possession of a second root
of the same kind, eagerly secured it at a most extravagant price. The moment he got possession
of it, he crushed it under his foot. "Now," he exclaimed, "my tulip is unique!"

A Dutch Merchant gave a sailor a herring for his breakfast. Jack seeing on the Merchant's counter
what he supposed to be a heap of onions, took up a handful of them and ate them with his fish.
The supposed onions were tulip bulbs of such value that they would have paid the cost of a
thousand Royal feasts.[079]

The tulip mania never leached so extravagant a height in England as in Holland, but our country
did not quite escape the contagion, and even so late as the year 1836 at the sale of Mr. Clarke's
tulips at Croydon, seventy two pounds were given for a single bulb of the Fanny Kemble; and
a Florist in Chelsea in the same year, priced a bulb in his catalogue at 200 guineas.

The Tulip is not endeared to us by many poetical associations. We have read, however, one pretty
and romantic tale about it. A poor old woman who lived amongst the wild hills of Dartmoor,
in Devonshire, possessed a beautiful bed of Tulips, the pride of her small garden. One fine
moonlight night her attention was arrested by the sweet music which seemed to issue from a
thousand Liliputian choristers. She found that the sounds proceeded from her many colored bells
of Tulips. After watching the flowers intently she perceived that they were not swayed to and
fro by the wind, but by innumerable little beings that were climbing on the stems and leaves.
They were pixies. Each held in its arms an elfin baby tinier than itself. She saw the babies
laid in the bells of the plant, which were thus used as cradles, and the music was formed of
many lullabies. When the babies were asleep the pixies or fairies left them, and gamboled on
the neighbouring sward on which the old lady discovered the day after, several new green rings,--a
certain evidence that her fancy had not deceived her! At earliest dawn the fairies had returned
to the tulips and taken away their little ones. The good old woman never permitted her tulip
bed to be disturbed. She regarded it as holy ground. But when she died, some Utilitarian gardener
turned it into a parsley bed! The parsley never flourished. The ground was now cursed. In gratitude
to the memory of the benevolent dame who had watched and protected the floral nursery, every
month, on the night before the full moon, the fairies scattered flowers on her grave, and raised
a sweet musical dirge--heard only by poetic ears--or by maids and children who

    Hold each strange tale devoutly true.

For as the poet says:

    What though no credit doubting wits may give,
    The fair and innocent shall still believe.

Men of genius are often as trustful as maids and children.

All nature indeed is full of mystery to the imaginative.

The Hindoos believe that the Peepul tree of which the foliage trembles like that of the aspen,
has a spirit in every leaf.

"Did you ever see a fairy's funeral, Madam?" said Blake, the artist. "Never Sir." "I have,"
continued that eccentric genius, "One night I was walking alone in my garden. There was great
stillness amongst the branches and flowers and more than common sweetness in the air. I heard
a low and pleasant sound, and knew not whence it came: at last I perceived the broad leaf of
a flower move, and underneath I saw a procession of creatures the size and color of green and
gray grasshoppers, bearing a body laid out on a rose leaf, which they buried with song, and
then disappeared."

THE PINK.

The PINK (dianthus) is a very elegant flower. I have but a short story about it. The young
Duke of Burgundy, grandson of Louis the Fifteenth, was brought up in the midst of flatterers
as fulsome as those rebuked by Canute. The youthful prince was fond of cultivating pinks, and
one of his courtiers, by substituting a floral changeling, persuaded him that one of those
pinks planted by the royal hand had sprung up into bloom in a single night! One night, being
unable to sleep, he wished to rise, but was told that it was midnight; he replied "Well then,
I desire it to be morning."

The pink is one of the commonest of the flowers in English gardens. It is a great favorite
all over Europe. The botanists have enumerated about 400 varieties of it.

THE PANSY OR HEARTS-EASE.

The PANSY (víola trîcolor) commonly called Hearts-ease, or Love-in-idleness, or Herb-Trinity
(Flos Trinitarium), or Three-faces-under-a-hood, or Kit-run-about, is one of the richest and
loveliest of flowers.

The late Mrs. Siddons, the great actress, was so fond of this flower that she thought she could
never have enough of it. Besides round beds of it she used it as an edging to all the flower
borders in her garden. She liked to plant a favorite flower in large masses of beauty. But
such beauty must soon fatigue the eye with its sameness. A round bed of one sort of flowers
only is like a nosegay composed of one sort of flowers or of flowers of the same hue. She was
also particularly fond of evergreens because they gave her garden a pleasant aspect even in
the winter.

"Do you hear him?"--(John Bunyan makes the guide enquire of Christiana while a shepherd boy
is singing beside his sheep)--"I will dare to say this boy leads a merrier life, and wears
more of the herb called hearts-ease in his bosom, than he that is clothed in silk and purple."

Shakespeare has connected this flower with a compliment to the maiden
Queen of England.
    It fell upon a little western flowers,
    Before milk white, now purple with love's wound--
    And maidens call it LOVE IN IDLENESS
    Fetch me that flower, the herb I showed thee once,
    The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid,
    Will make or man or woman madly dote
    Upon the next live creature that it sees.
    Fetch me this herb and be thou here again,
    Ere the leviathan can swim a league.

Midsummer Night's Dream.

The hearts-ease has been cultivated with great care and success by some of the most zealous
flower-fanciers amongst our countrymen in India. But it is a delicate plant in this clime,
and requires most assiduous attention, and a close study of its habits. It always withers here
under ordinary hands.

THE MIGNONETTE.

The MIGNONETTE, (reseda odorato,) the Frenchman's little darling, was not introduced into England
until the middle of the 17th century. The Mignonette or Sweet Reseda was once supposed capable
of assuaging pain, and of ridding men of many of the ills that flesh is heir to. It was applied
with an incantation. This flower has found a place in the armorial bearings of an illustrious
family of Saxony. I must tell the story: The Count of Walsthim loved the fair and sprightly
Amelia de Nordbourg. She was a spoilt child and a coquette. She had an humble companion whose
christian name was Charlotte. One evening at a party, all the ladies were called upon to choose
a flower each, and the gentlemen were to make verses on the selections. Amelia fixed upon the
flaunting rose, Charlotte the modest mignonette. In the course of the evening Amelia coquetted
so desperately with a dashing Colonel that the Count could not suppress his vexation. On this
he wrote a verse for the Rose:

    Elle ne vit qu'un jour, et ne plait qu'un moment.
    (She lives but for a day and pleases but for a moment)

He then presented the following line on the Mignonette to the gentle Charlotte:

    "Ses qualities surpassent ses charmes."

The Count transferred his affections to Charlotte, and when he married her, added a branch
of the Sweet Reseda to the ancient arms of his family, with the motto of

    Your qualities surpass your charms.

VERVAIN.

            The vervain--
    That hind'reth witches of their will.

Drayton

VERVAIN (verbena) was called by the Greeks the sacred herb. It was used to brush their altars.
It was supposed to keep off evil spirits. It was also used in the religious ceremonies of the
Druids and is still held sacred by the Persian Magi. The latter lay branches of it on the altar
of the sun.

The ancients had their Verbenalia when the temples were strewed with vervain, and no incantation
or lustration was deemed perfect without the aid of this plant. It was supposed to cure the
bite of a serpent or a mad dog.

THE DAISY.

The DAISY or day's eye (bellis perennis) has been the darling of the British poets from Chaucer
to Shelley. It is not, however, the darling of poets only, but of princes and peasants. And
it is not man's favorite only, but, as Wordsworth says, Nature's favorite also. Yet it is "the
simplest flower that blows." Its seed is broadcast on the land. It is the most familiar of
flowers. It sprinkles every field and lane in the country with its little mimic stars. Wordsworth
pays it a beautiful compliment in saying that

    Oft alone in nooks remote
    We meet it like a pleasant thought
    When such is wanted.

But though this poet dearly loved the daisy, in some moods of mind he seems to have loved the
little celandine (common pilewort) even better. He has addressed two poems to this humble little
flower. One begins with the following stanza.

    Pansies, Lilies, Kingcups, Daisies,
    Let them live upon their praises;
    Long as there's a sun that sets
    Primroses will have their glory;
    Long as there are Violets,
    They will have a place in story:
    There's a flower that shall be mine,
    'Tis the little Celandine.

No flower is too lowly for the affections of Wordsworth. Hazlitt says, "the daisy looks up
to Wordsworth with sparkling eye as an old acquaintance; a withered thorn is weighed down with
a heap of recollections; and even the lichens on the rocks have a life and being in his thoughts."

The Lesser Celandine, is an inodorous plant, but as Wordsworth possessed not the sense of smell,
to him a deficiency of fragrance in a flower formed no objection to it. Miss Martineau alludes
to a newspaper report that on one occasion the poet suddenly found himself capable of enjoying
the fragrance of a flower, and gave way to an emotion of tumultuous rapture. But I have seen
this contradicted. Miss Martineau herself has generally no sense of smell, but we have her
own testimony to the fact that a brief enjoyment of the faculty once actually occurred to her.
In her case there was a simultaneous awakening of two dormant faculties--the sense of smell
and the sense of taste. Once and once only, she enjoyed the scent of a bottle of Eau de Cologne
and the taste of meat. The two senses died away again almost in their birth.

Shelley calls Daisies "those pearled Arcturi of the earth"--"the constellated flower that never
sets."

The Father of English poets does high honor to this star of the meadow in the "Prologue to
the Legend of Goode Women."

He tells us that in the merry month of May he was wont to quit even his beloved books to look
upon the fresh morning daisy.

    Of all the floures in the mede
    Then love I most these floures white and red,
    Such that men callen Daisies in our town,
    To them I have so great affectión.
    As I sayd erst, when comen is the Maie,
    That in my bedde there dawneth me no daie
    That I nam up and walking in the mede
    To see this floure agenst the Sunne sprede,
    When it up riseth early by the morrow
    That blisfull sight softeneth all my sorrow.

Chaucer.

The poet then goes on with his hearty laudation of this lilliputian luminary of the fields,
and hesitates not to describe it as "of all floures the floure." The famous Scottish Peasant
loved it just as truly, and did it equal honor. Who that has once read, can ever forget his
harmonious and pathetic address to a mountain daisy on turning it up with the plough? I must
give the poem a place here, though it must be familiar to every reader. But we can read it
again and again, just as we can look day after day with undiminished interest upon the flower
that it commemorates.

Mrs. Stowe (the American writer) observes that "the daisy with its wide plaited ruff and yellow
centre is not our (that is, an American's) flower. The English flower is the

    Wee, modest, crimson tippéd flower

which Burns celebrated.

TO A MOUNTAIN DAISY.

ON TURNING ONE DOWN WITH THE PLOUGH IN APRIL, 1786

    Wee, modest, crimson tippéd flow'r,
    Thou's met me in an evil hour,
    For I maun[080] crush amang the stoure[081]
            Thy slender stem,
    To spare thee now is past my pow'r,
            Thou bonnie gem.

Burns.

The following verses though they make no pretension to the strength and pathos of the poem
by the great Scottish Peasant, have a grace and simplicity of their own, for which they have
long been deservedly popular.

A FIELD FLOWER.

ON FINDING ONE IN FULL BLOOM, ON CHRISTMAS DAY, 1803.

    There is a flower, a little flower,
    With silver crest and golden eye,
    That welcomes every changing hour,
    And weathers every sky.

    The prouder beauties of the field
    In gay but quick succession shine,
    Race after race their honours yield,
    They flourish and decline.

    But this small flower, to Nature dear,
    While moons and stars their courses run,
    Wreathes the whole circle of the year,
    Companion of the sun.

    It smiles upon the lap of May,
    To sultry August spreads its charms,
    Lights pale October on his way,
    And twines December's arms.

    The purple heath and golden broom,
    On moory mountains catch the gale,
    O'er lawns the lily sheds perfume,
    The violet in the vale.

    But this bold floweret climbs the hill,
    Hides in the forest, haunts the glen,
    Plays on the margin of the rill,
    Peeps round the fox's den.

    Within the garden's cultured round
    It shares the sweet carnation's bed;
    And blooms on consecrated ground
    In honour of the dead.

    The lambkin crops its crimson gem,
    The wild-bee murmurs on its breast,
    The blue-fly bends its pensile stem,
    Light o'er the sky-lark's nest.

    'Tis FLORA'S page,--in every place,
    In every season fresh and fair;
    It opens with perennial grace.
    And blossoms everywhere.

    On waste and woodland, rock and plain,
    Its humble buds unheeded rise;
    The rose has but a summer-reign;
    The DAISY never dies.

James Montgomery.

Montgomery has another very pleasing poetical address to the daisy. The poem was suggested
by the first plant of the kind which had appeared in India. The flower sprang up unexpectedly
out of some English earth, sent with other seeds in it, to this country. The amiable Dr. Carey
of Serampore was the lucky recipient of the living treasure, and the poem is supposed to be
addressed by him to the dear little flower of his home, thus born under a foreign sky. Dr.
Carey was a great lover of flowers, and it was one of his last directions on his death-bed,
as I have already said, that his garden should be always protected from the intrusion of Goths
and Vandals in the form of Bengallee goats and cows. I must give one stanza of Montgomery's
second poetical tribute to the small flower with "the silver crest and golden eye."

    Thrice-welcome, little English flower!
    To this resplendent hemisphere
    Where Flora's giant offsprings tower
    In gorgeous liveries all the year;
    Thou, only thou, art little here
    Like worth unfriended and unknown,
    Yet to my British heart more dear
    Than all the torrid zone.

It is difficult to exaggerate the feeling with which an exile welcomes a home-flower. A year
or two ago Dr. Ward informed the Royal Institution of London, that a single primrose had been
taken to Australia in a glass-case and that when it arrived there in full bloom, the sensation
it excited was so great that even those who were in the hot pursuit of gold, paused in their
eager career to gaze for a moment upon the flower of their native fields, and such immense
crowds at last pressed around it that it actually became necessary to protect it by a guard.

My last poetical tribute to the Daisy shall be three stanzas from Wordsworth, from two different
addresses to the same flower.

    With little here to do or see
    Of things that in the great world be,
    Sweet Daisy! oft I talk to thee,
            For thou art worthy,
    Thou unassuming Common-place
    Of Nature, with that homely face,
    And yet with something of a grace,
            Which Love makes for thee!

       *       *       *       *       *

    If stately passions in me burn,
    And one chance look to Thee should turn,
    I drink out of an humbler urn
            A lowlier pleasure;
    The homely sympathy that heeds
    The common life, our nature breeds;
    A wisdom fitted to the needs
            Of hearts at leisure.

    When, smitten by the morning ray,
    I see thee rise, alert and gay,
    Then, cheerful Flower! my spirits play
            With kindred gladness;
    And when, at dusk, by dews opprest
    Thou sink'st, the image of thy rest
    Hath often eased my pensive breast
            Of careful sadness.

It is peculiarly interesting to observe how the profoundest depths of thought and feeling are
sometimes stirred in the heart of genius by the smallest of the works of Nature. Even more
ordinarily gifted men are similarly affected to the utmost extent of their intellect and sensibility.
We grow tired of the works of man. In the realms of art we ever crave something unseen before.
We demand new fashions, and when the old are once laid aside, we wonder that they should ever
have excited even a moment's admiration. But Nature, though she is always the same, never satiates
us. The simple little Daisy which Burns has so sweetly commemorated is the same flower that
was "of all flowres the flowre," in the estimation of the Patriarch of English poets, and which
so delighted Wordsworth in his childhood, in his middle life, and in his old age. He gazed
on it, at intervals, with unchanging affection for upwards of fourscore years.

The Daisy--the miniature sun with its tiny rays--is especially the favorite of our earliest
years. In our remembrances of the happy meadows in which we played in childhood, the daisy's
silver lustre is ever connected with the deeper radiance of its gay companion, the butter-cup,
which when held against the dimple on the cheek or chin of beauty turns it into a little golden
dell. The thoughtful and sensitive frequenter of rural scenes discovers beauty every where;
though it is not always the sort of beauty that would satisfy the taste of men who recognize
no gaiety or loveliness beyond the walls of cities. To the poet's eye even the freckles on
a milk-maid's brow are not without a grace, associated as they are with health, and the open
sunshine.

Chaucer tells us that the French call the Daisy La belle Marguerite. There is a little anecdote
connected with the appellation. Marguerite of Scotland, the Queen of Louis the Eleventh, presented
Marguerite Clotilde de Surville, a poetess, with a bouquet of daisies, with this inscription;
"Marguerite d'Ecosse à Marguerite (the pearl) d'Helicon."

The country maidens in England practise a kind of sortilége with this flower. They pluck off
leaf by leaf, saying alternately "He loves me" and "He loves me not." The omen or oracle is
decided by the fall of either sentence on the last leaf.

It is extremely difficult to rear the daisy in India. It is accustomed to all weathers in England,
but the long continued sultriness of this clime makes it as delicate as a languid English lady
in a tropical exile, and however carefully and skilfully nursed, it generally pines for its
native air and dies.[088]

THE PRICKLY GORSE.

    --Yon swelling downs where the sweet air stirs
    The harebells, and where prickly furze
    Buds lavish gold.

Keat's Endymion.

    Fair maidens, I'll sing you a song,
    I'll tell of the bonny wild flower,
    Whose blossoms so yellow, and branches so long,
    O'er moor and o'er rough rocky mountains are flung
    Far away from trim garden and bower

L.A. Tuamley.

The PRICKLY GORSE or Goss or Furze, (ulex)[089] I cannot omit to notice, because it was the
plant which of all others most struck Dillenius when he first trod on English ground. He threw
himself on his knees and thanked Heaven that he had lived to see the golden undulation of acres
of wind-waved gorse. Linnaeus lamented that he could scarcely keep it alive in Sweden even
in a greenhouse.

I have the most delightful associations connected with this plant, and never think of it without
a summer feeling and a crowd of delightful images and remembrances of rural quietude and blue
skies and balmy breezes. Cowper hardly does it justice:

    The common, over-grown with fern, and rough
    With prickly gorse, that shapeless and deformed
    And dangerous to the touch, has yet its bloom
    And decks itself with ornaments of gold,
    Yields no unpleasing ramble.

The plant is indeed irregularly shaped, but it is not deformed, and if it is dangerous to the
touch, so also is the rose, unless it be of that species which Milton places in Paradise--"and
without thorns the rose."

Hurdis is more complimentary and more just to the richest ornament of the swelling hill and
the level moor.

    And what more noble than the vernal furze
    With golden caskets hung?

I have seen whole cotees or coteaux (sides of hills) in the sweet little island of Jersey thickly
mantled with the golden radiance of this beautiful wildflower. The whole Vallée des Vaux (the
valley of vallies) is sometimes alive with its lustre.

VALLEE DES VAUX.

AIR--THE MEETING OF THE WATERS.

    If I dream of the past, at fair Fancy's command,
    Up-floats from the blue sea thy small sunny land!
    O'er thy green hills, sweet Jersey, the fresh breezes blow,
    And silent and warm is the Vallée des Vaux!

    There alone have I loitered 'mid blossoms of gold,
    And forgot that the great world was crowded and cold,
    Nor believed that a land of enchantment could show
    A vale more divine than the Vallée des Vaux.

    A few scattered cots, like white clouds in the sky,
    Or like still sails at sea when the light breezes die,
    And a mill with its wheel in the brook's silver glow,
    Form thy beautiful hamlet, sweet Vallée des Vaux!

    As the brook prattled by like an infant at play,
    And each wave as it passed stole a moment away,
    I thought how serenely a long life would flow,
    By the sweet little brook in the Vallée des Vaux.

D.L.R.

Jersey is not the only one of the Channel Islands that is enriched with "blossoms of gold."
In the sister island of Guernsey the prickly gorse is much used for hedges, and Sir George
Head remarks that the premises of a Guernsey farmer are thus as impregnably fortified and secured
as if his grounds were surrounded by a stone wall. In the Isle of Man the furze grows so high
that it is sometimes more like a fir tree than the ordinary plant.

There is an old proverb:--"When gorse is out of blossom, kissing is out of fashion"--that is
never. The gorse blooms all the year.

FERN.

    I'll seek the shaggy fern-clad hill
    And watch, 'mid murmurs muttering stern,
    The seed departing from the fern
    Ere wakeful demons can convey
    The wonder-working charm away.

Leyden.

"The green and graceful Fern" (filices) with its exquisite tracery must not be overlooked.
It recalls many noble home-scenes to British eyes. Pliny says that "of ferns there are two
kinds, and they bear neither flowers nor seed." The seed is very minute and might easily escape
a careless eye. In the present day every one knows that the seed of the fern lies on the under
side of the leaves, and a single leaf will often bear some millions of seeds. Even those amongst
the vulgar who believed the plant bore seed, had an idea that the seeds were visible only at
certain mysterious seasons and to favored individuals who by carrying a quantity of it on their
person, were able, like those who wore the helmet of Pluto or the ring of Gyges, to walk unseen
amidst a crowd. The seed was supposed to be best seen at a certain hour of the night on which
St. John the Baptist was born.

    We have the receipt of fern-seed; we walk invisible,

Shakespeare's Henry IV. Part I.

In Beaumont's and Fletcher's Fair Maid of the Inn, is the following allusion to the fern.

                --Had you Gyges' ring,
    Or the herb that gives invisibility.

Ben Jonson makes a similar allusion to it:

                        I had
    No medicine, sir, to go invisible,
    No fern-seed in my pocket.

Pope puts a branch of spleen-wort, a species of fern, (Asplenium trichomanes) into the hand
of a gnome as a protection from evil influences in the Cave of Spleen.

    Safe passed the gnome through this fantastic band
    A branch of healing spleen-wort in his hand.

The fern forms a splendid ornament for shadowy nooks and grottoes, or fragments of ruins, or
heaps of stones, or the odd corners of a large garden or pleasure-ground.

I have had many delightful associations with this plant both at home and abroad. When I visited
the beautiful Island of Penang, Sir William Norris, then the Recorder of the Island, and who
was a most indefatigable collector of ferns, obligingly presented me with a specimen of every
variety that he had discovered in the hills and vallies of that small paradise; and I suppose
that in no part of the world could a finer collection of specimens of the fern be made for
a botanist's herbarium. Fern leaves will look almost as well ten years after they are gathered
as on the day on which they are transferred from the dewy hillside to the dry pages of a book.

Jersey and Penang are the two loveliest islands on a small scale that I have yet seen: the
latter is the most romantic of the two and has nobler trees and a richer soil and a brighter
sky--but they are both charming retreats for the lovers of peace and nature. As I have devoted
some verses to Jersey I must have some also on

THE ISLAND OF PENANG.

                    I.

    I stand upon the mountain's brow--
    I drink the cool fresh, mountain breeze--
    I see thy little town below,[090]
    Thy villas, hedge-rows, fields and trees,
    And hail thee with exultant glow,
    GEM OF THE ORIENTAL SEAS!

                    II.

    A cloud had settled on my heart--
    My frame had borne perpetual pain--
    I yearned and panted to depart
    From dread Bengala's sultry plain--
    Fate smiled,--Disease withholds his dart--
    I breathe the breath of life again!

                    III.

    With lightened heart, elastic tread,
    Almost with youth's rekindled flame,
    I roam where loveliest scenes outspread
    Raise thoughts and visions none could name,
    Save those on whom the Muses shed
    A spell, a dower of deathless fame.

                    IV.

    I feel, but oh! could ne'er pourtray,
    Sweet Isle! thy charms of land and wave,
    The bowers that own no winter day,
    The brooks where timid wild birds lave,
    The forest hills where insects gay[091]
    Mimic the music of the brave!

                    V.

    I see from this proud airy height
    A lovely Lilliput below!
    Ships, roads, groves, gardens, mansions white,
    And trees in trimly ordered row,[092]
    Present almost a toy like sight,
    A miniature scene, a fairy show!

                    VI.

    But lo! beyond the ocean stream,
    That like a sheet of silver lies,
    As glorious as a poet's dream
    The grand Malayan mountains rise,
    And while their sides in sunlight beam
    Their dim heads mingle with the skies.

                    VI.

    Men laugh at bards who live in clouds--
    The clouds beneath me gather now,
    Or gliding slow in solemn crowds,
    Or singly, touched with sunny glow,
    Like mystic shapes in snowy shrouds,
    Or lucid veils on Beauty's brow.

                    VIII.

    While all around the wandering eye
    Beholds enchantments rich and rare,
    Of wood, and water, earth, and sky
    A panoramic vision fair,
    The dyal breathes his liquid sigh,
    And magic floats upon the air!

                    IX.

    Oh! lovely and romantic Isle!
    How cold the heart thou couldst not please!
    Thy very dwellings seem to smile
    Like quiet nests mid summer trees!
    I leave thy shores--but weep the while--
    GEM OF THE ORIENTAL SEAS!

D.L.R.

HENNA.

The henna or al hinna (Lawsonia inermis) is found in great abundance in Egypt, India, Persia
and Arabia. In Bengal it goes by the name of Mindee. It is much used here for garden hedges.
Hindu females rub it on the palms of their hands, the tips of their fingers and the soles of
their feet to give them a red dye. The same red dye has been observed upon the nails of Egyptian
mummies. In Egypt sprigs of henna are hawked about the streets for sale with the cry of "O,
odours of Paradise; O, flowers of the henna!" Thomas Moore alludes to one of the uses of the
henna:--

    Thus some bring leaves of henna to imbue
    The fingers' ends of a bright roseate hue,
    So bright, that in the mirror's depth they seem
    Like tips of coral branches in the stream.

MOSS.

MOSSES (musci) are sometimes confounded with Lichens. True mosses are green, and lichens are
gray. All the mosses are of exquisitely delicate structure. They are found in every part of
the world where the atmosphere is moist. They have a wonderful tenacity of life and can often
be restored to their original freshness after they have been dried for years. It was the sight
of a small moss in the interior of Africa that suggested to Mungo Park such consolatory reflections
as saved him from despair. He had been stripped of all he had by banditti.

"In this forlorn and almost helpless condition," he says, "when the robbers had left me, I
sat for some time looking around me with amazement and terror. Whichever way I turned, nothing
appeared but danger and difficulty.

VICTORIA REGIA.

On this Queen of Aquatic Plants the language of admiration has been exhausted. It was discovered
in the first year of the present century by the botanist Haenke who was sent by the Spanish
Government to investigate the vegetable productions of Peru. When in a canoe on the Rio Mamore,
one of the great tributaries of the river Amazon, he came suddenly upon the noblest and largest
flower that he had ever seen. He fell on his knees in a transport of admiration. It was the
plant now known as the Victoria Regia, or American Water-lily.

It was not till February 1849, that Dr. Hugh Rodie and Mr. Lachie of Demerara forwarded seeds
of the plant to Sir W.T. Hooker in vials of pure water. They were sown in earth, in pots immersed
in water, and enclosed in a glass case. They vegetated rapidly. The plants first came to perfection
at Chatsworth the seat of the Duke of Devonshire,[093] and subsequently at the Royal gardens
at Kew.

Early in November of the same year, (1849,) the leaves of the plant at Chatsworth were 4 feet
8 inches in diameter. A child weighing forty two pounds was placed upon one of the leaves which
bore the weight well. The largest leaf of the plant by the middle of the next month was five
feet in diameter with a turned up edge of from two to four inches. It then bore up a person
of 11 stone weight. The flat leaf of the Victoria Regia as it floats on the surface of the
water, resembles in point of form the brass high edged platter in which Hindus eat their rice.

The flowers in the middle of May 1850 measured one foot one inch in diameter. The rapidity
of the growth of this plant is one of its most remarkable characteristics, its leaves often
expanding eight inches in diameter daily, and Mr. John Fisk Allen, who has published in America
an admirably illustrated work upon the subject, tells us that instances under his own observation
have occurred of the leaves increasing at the rate of half an inch hourly.

Not only is there an extraordinary variety in the colours of the several specimens of this
flower, but a singularly rapid succession of changes of hue in the same individual flower as
it progresses from bud to blossom.

This vegetable wonder was introduced into North America in 1851. It grows to a larger size
there than in England. Some of the leaves of the plant cultivated in North America measure
seventy-two inches in diameter.

This plant has been proved to be perennial. It grows best in from 4 to 6 feet of water. Each
plant generally sends but four or five leaves to the surface.

In addition to the other attractions of this noble Water Lily, is the exquisite character of
its perfume, which strongly resembles that of a fresh pineapple just cut open.

The Victoria Regia in the Calcutta Botanic Garden has from some cause or other not flourished
so well as it was expected to do. The largest leaf is not more than four feet and three quarters
in diameter. But there can be little doubt that when the habits of the plant are better understood
it will be brought to great perfection in this country. I strongly recommend my native friends
to decorate their tanks with this the most glorious of aquatic plants.

THE FLY-ORCHIS--THE BEE-ORCHIS.

Of these strange freaks of nature many strange stories are told. I cannot repeat them all.
I shall content myself with quoting the following passage from D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature:--

"There is preserved in the British Museum, a black stone, on which nature has sketched a resemblance
of the portrait of Chaucer. Stones of this kind, possessing a sufficient degree of resemblance,
are rare; but art appears not to have been used. Even in plants, we find this sort of resemblance.
There is a species of the orchis found in the mountainous parts of Lincolnshire, Kent, &c.
Nature has formed a bee, apparently feeding on the breast of the flower, with so much exactness,
that it is impossible at a very small distance to distinguish the imposition. Hence the plant
derives its name, and is called, the Bee-flower. Langhorne elegantly notices its appearance.

    See on that floweret's velvet breast,
      How close the busy vagrant lies?
    His thin-wrought plume, his downy breast,
      Th' ambrosial gold that swells his thighs.
    Perhaps his fragrant load may bind
      His limbs;--we'll set the captive free--
    I sought the living bee to find,
      And found the picture of a bee,'

The late Mr. James of Exeter wrote to me on this subject: 'This orchis is common near our sea-coasts;
but instead of being exactly like a BEE, it is not like it at all. It has a general resemblance
to a fly, and by the help of imagination, may be supposed to be a fly pitched upon the flower.
The mandrake very frequently has a forked root, which may be fancied to resemble thighs and
legs. I have seen it helped out with nails on the toes.'

An ingenious botanist, a stranger to me, after reading this article, was so kind as to send
me specimens of the fly orchis, ophrys muscifera, and of the bee orchis, ophrys apifera. Their
resemblance to these insects when in full flower is the most perfect conceivable; they are
distinct plants. The poetical eye of Langhorne was equally correct and fanciful; and that too
of Jackson, who differed so positively. Many controversies have been carried on, from a want
of a little more knowledge; like that of the BEE orchis and the FLY orchis; both parties prove
to be right."[094]

THE FUCHSIA.

The Fuchsia is decidedly the most graceful flower in the world. It unfortunately wants fragrance
or it would be the beau ideal of a favorite of Flora. There is a story about its first introduction
into England which is worth reprinting here:

'Old Mr. Lee, a nurseryman and gardener, near London, well known fifty or sixty years ago,
was one day showing his variegated treasures to a friend, who suddenly turned to him, and declared,
'Well, you have not in your collection a prettier flower than I saw this morning at Wapping!'--'No!
and pray what was this phoenix like?' 'Why, the plant was elegant, and the flowers hung in
rows like tassels from the pendant branches; their colour the richest crimson; in the centre
a fold of deep purple,' and so forth. Particular directions being demanded and given, Mr. Lee
posted off to Wapping, where he at once perceived that the plant was new in this part of the
world. He saw and admired. Entering the house, he said, 'My good woman, that is a nice plant.
I should like to buy it.'--'I could not sell it for any money, for it was brought me from the
West Indies by my husband, who has now left again, and I must keep it for his sake.'--'But
I must have it!'--'No sir!'--'Here,' emptying his pockets; 'here are gold, silver, copper.'
(His stock was something more than eight guineas.)--'Well a-day! but this is a power of money,
sure and sure.'--''Tis yours, and the plant is mine; and, my good dame, you shall have one
of the first young ones I rear, to keep for your husband's sake,'--'Alack, alack!'--'You shall.'
A coach was called, in which was safely deposited our florist and his seemingly dear purchase.
His first work was to pull off and utterly destroy every vestige of blossom and bud. The plant
was divided into cuttings, which were forced in bark beds and hotbeds; were redivided and subdivided.
Every effort was used to multiply it. By the commencement of the next flowering season, Mr.
Lee was the delighted possessor of 300 Fuchsia plants, all giving promise of blossom. The two
which opened first were removed into his show-house. A lady came:--'Why, Mr. Lee, my dear Mr.
Lee, where did you get this charming flower?'--'Hem! 'tis a new thing, my lady; pretty, is
it not?'--'Pretty! 'tis lovely. Its price?'--'A guinea: thank your ladyship;' and one of the
plants stood proudly in her ladyship's boudoir. 'My dear Charlotte, where did you get?' &c.--'Oh!
'tis a new thing; I saw it at old Lee's; pretty, is it not?'--'Pretty! 'tis beautiful! Its
price!'--'A guinea; there was another left.' The visitor's horses smoked off to the suburb;
a third flowering plant stood on the spot whence the first had been taken. The second guinea
was paid, and the second chosen Fuchsia adorned the drawing-room of her second ladyship The
scene was repeated, as new-comers saw and were attracted by the beauty of the plant. New chariots
flew to the gates of old Lee's nursery-ground. Two Fuchsias, young, graceful and bursting into
healthy flower, were constantly seen on the same spot in his repository. He neglected not to
gladden the faithful sailor's wife by the promised gift; but, ere the flower season closed,
300 golden guineas clinked in his purse, the produce of the single shrub of the widow of Wapping;
the reward of the taste, decision, skill, and perseverance of old Mr. Lee.'

Whether this story about the fuchsia, be only partly fact and partly fiction I shall not pretend
to determine; but the best authorities acknowledge that Mr. Lee, one of the founders of the
Hammersmith Nursery, was the first to make the plant generally known in England and that he
for some time got a guinea for each of the cuttings. The fuchsia is a native of Mexico and
Chili. I believe that most of the plants of this genus introduced into India have flourished
for a brief period and then sickened and died.

The poets of England have not yet sung the Fuschia's praise. Here are three stanzas written
for a gentleman who had been presented, by the lady of his love with a superb plant of this kind.

A FUCHSIA.

                            I.

A deed of grace--a graceful gift--and graceful too the giver! Like ear-rings on thine own fair
head, these long buds hang and quiver: Each tremulous taper branch is thrilled--flutter the
wing-like leaves-- For thus to part from thee, sweet maid, the floral spirit grieves!

                            II.

Rude gods in brass or gold enchant an untaught devotee-- Fair marble shapes, rich paintings
old, are Art's idolatry; But nought e'er charmed a human breast like this small tremulous flower,
Minute and delicate work divine of world-creative power!

                            III.

This flower's the Queen of all earth's flowers, and loveliest things appear Linked by some
secret sympathy, in this mysterious sphere; The giver and the gift seem one, and thou thyself
art nigh When this glory of the garden greets thy lover's raptured eye.

D.L.R.

"Do you know the proper name of this flower?" writes Jeremy Bentham to a lady-friend, "and
the signification of its name? Fuchsia from Fuchs, a German botanist."

ROSEMARY.

    There's rosemary--that's for remembrance:
    Pray you, love, remember.

Hamlet

    There's rosemarie; the Arabians Justifie
    (Physitions of exceeding perfect skill)
    It comforteth the brain and memory.

Chester.

Bacon speaks of heaths of ROSEMARY (Rosmarinus[095]) that "will smell a great way in the sea;
perhaps twenty miles." This reminds us of Milton's Paradise.

Rosemary used to be carried at funerals, and worn as wedding favors.

    Lewis    Pray take a piece of Rosemary
    Miramont I'll wear it,
    But for the lady's sake, and none of your's!

Beaumont and Fletcher's "Elder Brother."

Rosemary, says Malone, being supposed to strengthen the memory, was the emblem of fidelity
in lovers. So in A Handfull of Pleasant Delites, containing Sundrie New Sonets, 16mo. 1854:

    Rosemary is for remembrance
    Between us daie and night,
    Wishing that I might alwaies have
    You present in my sight.

The poem in which these lines are found, is entitled, 'A Nosegay alwaies sweet for Lovers to
send for Tokens of Love.'

Roger Hochet in his sermon entitled A Marriage Present (1607) thus speaks of the Rosemary;--"It
overtoppeth all the flowers in the garden, boasting man's rule. It helpeth the brain, strengtheneth
the memorie, and is very medicinable for the head. Another propertie of the rosemary is, it
affects the heart. Let this rosemarinus, this flower of men, ensigne of your wisdom, love,
and loyaltie, be carried not only in your hands, but in your hearts and heads."

"Hungary water" is made up chiefly from the oil distilled from this shrub.

       *       *       *       *       *

I should talk on a little longer about other shrubs, herbs, and flowers, (particularly of flowers)
such as the "pink-eyed Pimpernel" (the poor man's weather glass) and the fragrant Violet, ('the
modest grace of the vernal year,') the scarlet crested Geranium with its crimpled leaves, and
the yellow and purple Amaranth, powdered with gold,

                A flower which once
    In Paradise, fast by the tree of life
    Began to bloom,

and the crisp and well-varnished Holly with "its rutilant berries," and the white Lily, (the
vestal Lady of the Vale,--"the flower of virgin light") and the luscious Honeysuckle, and the
chaste Snowdrop,

            Venturous harbinger of spring
    And pensive monitor of fleeting years,

and the sweet Heliotrope and the gay and elegant Nasturtium, and a great many other "bonnie
gems" upon the breast of our dear mother earth,--but this gossipping book has already extended
to so unconscionable a size that I must quicken my progress towards a conclusion[096].

I am indebted to the kindness of Babu Kasiprasad Ghosh, the first Hindu gentlemen who ever
published a volume of poems in the English language[097] for the following interesting list
of Indian flowers used in Hindu ceremonies. Many copies of the poems of Kasiprasad Ghosh, were
sent to the English public critics, several of whom spoke of the author's talents with commendation.
The late Miss Emma Roberts wrote a brief biography of him for one of the London annuals, so
that there must be many of my readers at home who will not on this occasion hear of his name
for the first time.

A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF INDIAN FLOWERS, COMMONLY USED IN HINDU CEREMONIES.[098]

A'KUNDA (Calotropis Gigantea).--A pretty purple coloured, and slightly scented flower, having
a sweet and agreeable smell. It is called Arca in Sanscrit, and has two varieties, both of
which are held to be sacred to Shiva. It forms one of the five darts with which the Indian
God of Love is supposed to pierce the hearts of young mortals.[099] Sir William Jones refers
to it in his Hymn to Kama Deva. It possesses medicinal properties.[100]

A'PARA'JITA (Clitoria ternatea).--A conically shaped flower, the upper part of which is tinged
with blue and the lower part is white. Some are wholly white. It is held to be sacred to Durgá.

ASOCA. (Jonesia Asoca).--A small yellow flower, which blooms in large clusters in the month
of April and gives a most beautiful appearance to the tree. It is eaten by young females as
a medicine. It smells like the Saffron.

A'TASHI.--A small yellowish or brown coloured flower without any smell. It is supposed to be
sacred to Shiva, and is very often alluded to by the Indian poets. It resembles the flower
of the flax or Linum usitatissimum.[101]

BAKA.--A kidney shaped flower, having several varieties, all of which are held to be sacred
to Vishnu, and are in consequence used in his worship. It is supposed to possess medicinal
virtues and is used by the native doctors.

BAKU'LA (Mimusops Etengi).--A very small, yellowish, and fragrant flower. It is used in making
garlands and other female ornaments. Krishna is said to have fascinated the milkmaids of Brindabun
by playing on his celebrated flute under a Baku'la tree on the banks of the Jumna, which is,
therefore, invariably alluded to in all the Sanscrit and vernacular poems relating to his amours
with those young women.

BA'KASHA (Justicia Adhatoda).--A white flower, having a slight smell. It is used in certain
native medicines.

BELA (Jasminum Zambac).--A fragrant small white flower, in common use among native females,
who make garlands of it to wear in their braids of hair. A kind of uttar is extracted from
this flower, which is much esteemed by natives. It is supposed to form one of the darts of
Kama Deva or the God of Love. European Botanists seem to have confounded this flower with the
Monika, which they also call the Jasminum Zambac.

BHU'MI CHAMPAKA.--An oblong variegated flower, which shoots out from the ground at the approach
of spring. It has a slight smell, and is considered to possess medicinal properties. The great
peculiarity of this flower is that it blooms when there is not apparently the slightest trace
of the existence of the shrub above ground. When the flower dies away, the leaves make their
appearance.

CHAMPA' (Michelia Champaka).--A tulip shaped yellow flower possessing a very strong smell.[102]
It forms one of the darts of Kama Deva, the Indian Cupid. It is particularly sacred to Krishna.

CHUNDRA MALLIKA' (Chrysanthemum Indiana).--A pretty round yellow flower which blooms in winter.
The plant is used in making hedges in gardens and presents a beautiful appearance in the cold
weather when the blossoms appear.

DHASTU'RA (Datura Fastuosa).--A large tulip shaped white flower, sacred to Mahadeva, the third
Godhead of the Hindu Trinity. The seeds of this flower have narcotic properties.[103]

DRONA.--A white flower with a very slight smell.

DOPATI (Impatiens Balsamina).--A small flower having a slight smell. There are several varieties
of this flower. Some are red and some white, while others are both white and red.

GA'NDA' (Tagetes erecta).--A handsome yellow flower, which sometimes grows very large. It is
commonly used in making garlands, with which the natives decorate their idols, and the Europeans
in India their churches and gates on Christmas Day and New Year's Day.

GANDHA RA'J (Gardenia Florida).--A strongly scented white flower, which blooms at night.

GOLANCHA (Menispermum Glabrum).--A white flower. The plant is already well known to Europeans
as a febrifuge.

JAVA' (Hibiscus Rosa Sinensis).--A large blood coloured flower held to be especially sacred
to Kali. There are two species of it, viz. the ordinary Javá commonly seen in our gardens and
parterres, and the Pancha Mukhi, which, as its name imports, has five compartments and is the
largest of the two.[104]

JAYANTI (Aeschynomene Sesban).--A small yellowish flower, held to be sacred to Shiva.

JHA'NTI.--A small white flower possessing medicinal properties. The leaves of the plants are
used in curing certain ulcers.

JA'NTI (Jasminum Grandiflorum).--Also a small white flower having a sweet smell. The uttar
called Chumeli is extracted from it.

JUYIN (Jasminum Auriculatum).--The Indian Jasmine. It is a very small white flower remarkable
for its sweetness. It is also used in making a species of uttar which is highly prized by the
natives, as also in forming a great variety of imitation female ornaments.

KADAMBA (Nauclea Cadamba).--A ball shaped yellow flower held to be particularly sacred to Krishna,
many of whose gambols with the milkmaids of Brindabun are said to have been performed under
the Kadamba tree, which is in consequence very frequently alluded to in the vernacular poems
relating to his loves with those celebrated beauties.

KINSUKA (Butea Frondosa).--A handsome but scentless white flower.

KANAKA CHAMPA (Pterospermum Acerifolium).--A yellowish flower which hangs down in form of a
tassel. It has a strong smell, which is perceived at a great distance when it is on the tree,
but the moment it is plucked off, it begins to lose its fragrance.

KANCHANA (Bauhinia Variegata).--There are several varieties of this flower. Some are white,
some are purple, while others are red. It gives a handsome appearance to the tree when the
latter is in full blossom.

KUNDA (Jasminum pulescens).--A very pretty white flower. Indian poets frequently compare a
set of handsome teeth, to this flower. It is held to be especially sacred to Vishnu.

KARABIRA (Nerium Odosum).--There are two species of this flower, viz. the white and red, both
of which are sacred to Shiva.

KAMINI (Murraya Exotica).--A pretty small white flower having a strong smell. It blooms at
night and is very delicate to the touch. The kamini tree is frequently used as a garden hedge.

KRISHNA CHURA (Poinciana Pulcherrima).--A pretty small flower, which, as its name imports resembles
the head ornament of Krishna. When the Krishna Chura tree is in full blossom, it has a very
handsome appearance.

KRISHNA KELI (Mirabilis Jalapa.)[105]--A small tulip shaped yellow flower. The bulb of the
plant has medicinal properties and is used by the natives as a poultice.

KUMADA (Nymphaea Esculenta)--A white flower, resembling the lotus, but blooming at night, whence
the Indian poets suppose that it is in love with Chandra or the Moon, as the lotus is imagined
by them to be in love with the Sun.

LAVANGA LATA' (Limonia Scandens.)--A very small red flower growing upon a creeper, which has
been celebrated by Jaya Deva in his famous work called the Gita Govinda. This creeper is used
in native gardens for bowers.

MALLIKA' (Jasminum Zambac.)--A white flower resembling the Bela. It has a very sweet smell
and is used by native females to make ornaments. It is frequently alluded to by Indian poets.

MUCHAKUNDA (Pterospermum Suberifolia).--A strongly scented flower, which grows in clusters
and is of a brown colour.

MA'LATI (Echites Caryophyllata.)--The flower of a creeper which is commonly used in native
gardens. It has a slight smell and is of a white colour.

MA'DHAVI (Gaertnera Racemosa.)--The flower of another creeper which is also to be seen in native
gardens. It is likewise of a white colour.

NA'GESWARA (Mesua Ferrua.)--A white flower with yellow filaments, which are said to possess
medicinal properties and are used by the native physicians. It has a very sweet smell and is
supposed by Indian poets to form one of the darts of Kama Deva. See Sir William Jones's Hymn
to that deity.

PADMA (Nelumbium Speciosum.)--The Indian lotus, which is held to be sacred to Vishnu, Brama,
Mahadava, Durga, Lakshami and Saraswati as well as all the higher orders of Indian deities.
It is a very elegant flower and is highly esteemed by the natives, in consequence of which
the Indian poets frequently allude to it in their writings.

PA'RIJATA (Buchanania Latifolia.)--A handsome white flower, with a slight smell. In native
poetry, it furnishes a simile for pretty eyes, and is held to be sacred to Vishnu.

PAREGATA (Erythrina Fulgens.)--A flower which is supposed to bloom in the garden of Indra in
heaven, and forms the subject of an interesting episode in the Puranas, in which the two wives
of Krisna, (Rukmini and Satyabhama) are said to have quarrelled for the exclusive possession
of this flower, which their husband had stolen from the celestial garden referred to. It is
supposed to be identical with the flower of the Palta madar.

RAJANI GANDHA (Polianthus Tuberosa.)--A white tulip-shaped flower which blooms at night, from
which circumstance it is called "the Rajani Gandha, (or night-fragrance giver)." It is the
Indian tuberose.

RANGANA.--A small and very pretty red flower which is used by native females in ornamenting
their betels.

SEONTI. Rosa Glandulefera. A white flower resembling the rose in size and appearance. It has
a sweet smell.

SEPHA'LIKA (Nyctanthes Arbor-tristis.)--A very pretty and delicate flower which blooms at night,
and drops down shortly after. It has a sweet smell and is held to be sacred to Shiva. The juice
of the leaves of the Sephalika tree are used in curing both remittant and intermittent fevers.

SURYJA MUKHI (Helianthus Annuus).--A large and very handsome yellow flower, which is said to
turn itself to the Sun, as he goes from East to West, whence it has derived its name.

SURYJA MANI (Hibiscus Phoeniceus).--A small red flower.

GOLAKA CHAMPA.--A large beautiful white tulip-shaped flower having a sweet smell. It is externally
white but internally orange-colored.

TAGUR (Tabernoemontana Coronaria).--A white flower having a slight smell.

TARU LATA.--A beautiful creeper with small red flowers. It is used in native gardens for making
hedges.

K.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pliny in his Natural History alludes to the marks of time exhibited in the regular opening
and closing of flowers. Linnaeus enumerates forty-six flowers that might be used for the construction
of a floral time-piece. This great Swedish botanist invented a Floral horologe, "whose wheels
were the sun and earth and whose index-figures were flowers." Perhaps his invention, however,
was not wholly original. Andrew Marvell in his "Thoughts in a Garden" mentions a sort of floral
dial:--

    How well the skilful gardener drew
    Of flowers and herbs this dial new!
    Where, from above, the milder sun
    Does through a fragrant zodiac run:
    And, as it works, th'industrious bee
    Computes its time as well as we:
    How could such sweet and wholesome hours
    Be reckoned, but with herbs and flowers?

Marvell[106]

Milton's notation of time--"at shut of evening flowers," has a beautiful simplicity, and though
Shakespeare does not seem to have marked his time on a floral clock, yet, like all true poets,
he has made very free use of other appearances of nature to indicate the commencement and the
close of day.

    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch--
    Than we will ship him hence.

Hamlet.

    Fare thee well at once!
    The glow-worm shows the matin to be near
    And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.

Hamlet.

    But look!

Hamlet.

        Light thickens, and the crow
    Makes wing to the rooky wood.

Macbeth.

Such picturesque notations of time as these, are in the works of Shakespeare, as thick as autumnal
leaves that strew the brooks in Valombrosa. In one of his Sonnets he thus counts the years
of human life by the succession of the seasons.

    To me, fair friend, you never can be old,
    For as you were when first your eye I eyed,
    Such seems your beauty still. Three winters cold
    Have from the forests shook three summers' pride;
    Three beauteous springs to yellow autumn turned
    In process of the seasons have I seen;
    Three April's perfumes in three hot Junes burned
    Since first I saw you fresh which yet are green.

Grainger, a prosaic verse-writer who once commenced a paragraph of a poem with "Now, Muse,
let's sing of rats!" called upon the slave drivers in the West Indies to time their imposition
of cruel tasks by the opening and closing of flowers.

    Till morning dawn and Lucifer withdraw
    His beamy chariot, let not the loud bell
    Call forth thy negroes from their rushy couch:
    And ere the sun with mid-day fervor glow,
    When every broom-bush opes her yellow flower,
    Let thy black laborers from their toil desist:
    Nor till the broom her every petal lock,
    Let the loud bell recal them to the hoe,
    But when the jalap her bright tint displays,
    When the solanum fills her cup with dew,
    And crickets, snakes and lizards gin their coil,
    Let them find shelter in their cane-thatched huts.

Sugar Cane.[107]

I shall here give (from Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening) the form of a flower dial. It
may be interesting to many of my readers:--

    'Twas a lovely thought to mark the hours
    As they floated in light away
    By the opening and the folding flowers
    That laugh to the summer day.[108]

Mr. Hemans.

A FLOWER DIAL.

TIME OF OPENING.
                            [109] h. m.
YELLOW GOAT'S BEARD          T.P.  3  5
LATE FLOWERING DANDELION  Leon.S.  4  0
BRISTLY HELMINTHIA           H.B.  4  5
ALPINE BORKHAUSIA            B.A.  4  5
WILD SUCCORY                 C.I.  4  5
NAKED STALKED POPPY          P.N.  5  0
COPPER COLOURED DAY LILY     H.F.  5  0
SMOOTH SOW THISTLE           S.L.  5  0
ALPINE AGATHYRSUS           Ag.A.  5  0
SMALL BIND WEED            Con.A.  5  6
COMMON NIPPLE WORT           L.C.  5  6
COMMON DANDELION             L.T.  5  6
SPORTED ACHYROPHORUS         A.M.  6  7
WHITE WATER LILY             N.A.  7  0
GARDEN LETTUCE             Lec.S.  7  0
AFRICAN MARIGOLD             T.E.  7  0
COMMON PIMPERNEL             A.A.  7  8
MOUSE-EAR HAWKWEED           H.P.  8  0
PROLIFEROUS PINK             D.P.  8  0
FIELD MARIGOLD             Cal.A.  9  0
PURPLE SANDWORT              A.P.  9 10
SMALL PURSLANE               P.O.  9 10
CREEPING MALLOW              M.C.  9 10
CHICKWEED                    S.M.  9 10

TIME OF CLOSING.
                                  h. m.
HELMINTHIA ECHIOIDES         B.H. 12  0
AGATHYRSUS ALPINUS           A.B. 12  0
BORKHAUSIA ALPINA            A.B. 12  0
LEONTODON SEROTINUS          L.D. 12  0
MALVA CAROLINIANA            C.M. 12  1
DAINTHUS PROLIFER            P.P.  1  0
HIERACIUM PILOSELLA          M.H.  0  2
ANAGALLIS ARVENSIS           S.P.  2  3
ARENARIA PURPUREA            P.S.  2  4
CALENDULA ARVENSIS           F.M.  3  0
TACETES ERECTA               A.M.  3  3
CONVOLVULUS ARVENSIS         S.B.  4  0
ACHYROPHORUS MACULATUS       S.A.  4  5
NYMPHAEA ALBA              W.W.B.  5  0
PAPAVER NUDICAULE            N.P.  7  0
HEMEROCALLIS FULVA         C.D.L.  7  0
CICHORIUM INTYBUS            W.S.  8  9
TRAGOPOGON PRATENSIS       Y.G.B.  9 10
STELLARIA MEDIA                C.  9 10
LAPSANA COMMUNIS             C.N. 10  0
LACTUCA SATIVA               G.L. 10  0
SONCHUS LAEVIS               S.T. 11 10
PORTULACA OLERACEA           S.P. 11 12

Of course it will be necessary to adjust the Horologium Florae (or Flower clock) to the nature
of the climate. Flowers expand at a later hour in a cold climate than in a warm one. "A flower,"
says Loudon, "that opens at six o'clock in the morning at Senegal, will not open in France
or England till eight or nine, nor in Sweden till ten. A flower that opens at ten o'clock at
Senegal will not open in France or England till noon or later, and in Sweden it will not open
at all. And a flower that does not open till noon or later at Senegal will not open at all
in France or England. This seems as if heat or its absence were also (as well as light) an
agent in the opening and shutting of flowers; though the opening of such as blow only in the
night cannot be attributed to either light or heat."

The seasons may be marked in a similar manner by their floral representatives. Mary Howitt
quotes as a motto to her poem on Holy Flowers the following example of religious devotion timed
by flowers:--

"Mindful of the pious festivals which our church prescribes," (says a Franciscan Friar) "I
have sought to make these charming objects of floral nature, the time-pieces of my religious
calendar, and the mementos of the hastening period of my mortality. Thus I can light the taper
to our Virgin Mother on the blowing of the white snow-drop which opens its floweret at the
time of Candlemas; the lady's smock and the daffodil, remind me of the Annunciation; the blue
harebell, of the Festival of St George; the ranunculus, of the Invention of the Cross; the
scarlet lychnis, of St. John the Baptist's day; the white lily, of the Visitation of our Lady,
and the Virgin's bower, of her Assumption; and Michaelmas, Martinmas, Holyrood, and Christmas,
have all their appropriate monitors. I learn the time of day from the shutting of the blossoms
of the Star of Jerusalem and the Dandelion, and the hour of the night by the stars."

Some flowers afford a certain means of determining the state of the atmosphere. If I understand
Mr. Tyas rightly he attributes the following remarks to Hartley Coleridge.--

"Many species of flowers are admirable barometers. Most of the bulbous-rooted flowers contract,
or close their petals entirely on the approach of rain. The African marigold indicates rain,
if the corolla is closed after seven or eight in the morning. The common bind-weed closes its
flowers on the approach of rain; but the anagallis arvensis, or scarlet pimpernel, is the most
sure in its indications as the petals constantly close on the least humidity of the atmosphere.
Barley is also singularly affected by the moisture or dryness of the air. The awns are furnished
with stiff points, all turning towards one end, which extend when moist, and shorten when dry.
The points, too, prevent their receding, so that they are drawn up or forward; as moisture
is returned, they advance and so on; indeed they may be actually seen to travel forwards. The
capsules of the geranium furnish admirable barometers. Fasten the beard, when fully ripe, upon
a stand, and it will twist itself, or untwist, according as the air is moist or dry. The flowers
of the chick-weed, convolvulus, and oxalis, or wood sorrel, close their petals on the approach
of rain."

The famous German writer, Jean Paul Richter, describes what he calls a Human Clock.

A HUMAN CLOCK.

"I believe" says Richter "the flower clock of Linnaeus, in Upsal (Horologium Florae) whose
wheels are the sun and earth, and whose index-figures are flowers, of which one always awakens
and opens later than another, was what secretly suggested my conception of the human clock.

I formerly occupied two chambers in Scheeraw, in the middle of the market place: from the front
room I overlooked the whole market-place and the royal buildings and from the back one, the
botanical garden. Whoever now dwells in these two rooms possesses an excellent harmony, arranged
to his hand, between the flower clock in the garden and the human clock in the marketplace.
At three o'clock in the morning, the yellow meadow goats-beard opens; and brides awake, and
the stable-boy begins to rattle and feed the horses beneath the lodger. At four o'clock the
little hawk weed awakes, choristers going to the Cathedral who are clocks with chimes, and
the bakers. At five, kitchen maids, dairy maids, and butter-cups awake. At six, the sow-thistle
and cooks. At seven o'clock many of the Ladies' maids are awake in the Palace, the Chicory
in my botanical garden, and some tradesmen. At eight o'clock all the colleges awake and the
little mouse-ear. At nine o'clock, the female nobility already begin to stir; the marigold,
and even many young ladies, who have come from the country on a visit, begin to look out of
their windows. Between ten and eleven o'clock the Court Ladies and the whole staff of Lords
of the Bed-chamber, the green colewort and the Alpine dandelion, and the reader of the Princess
rouse themselves out of their morning sleep; and the whole Palace, considering that the morning
sun gleams so brightly to-day from the lofty sky through the coloured silk curtains, curtails
a little of its slumber.

At twelve o'clock, the Prince: at one, his wife and the carnation have their eyes open in their
flower vase. What awakes late in the afternoon at four o'clock is only the red-hawkweed, and
the night watchman as cuckoo-clock, and these two only tell the time as evening-clocks and
moon-clocks.

From the eyes of the unfortunate man, who like the jalap plant (Mirabilia jalapa), first opens
them at five o'clock, we will turn our own in pity aside. It is a rich man who only exchanges
the fever fancies of being pinched with hot pincers for waking pains.

I could never know when it was two o'clock, because at that time, together with a thousand
other stout gentlemen and the yellow mouse-ear, I always fell asleep; but at three o'clock
in the afternoon, and at three in the morning, I awoke as regularly as though I was a repeater.
Thus we mortals may be a flower-clock for higher beings, when our flower-leaves close upon
our last bed; or sand clocks, when the sand of our life is so run down that it is renewed in
the other world; or picture-clocks because, when our death-bell here below strikes and rings,
our image steps forth, from its case into the next world.

On each event of the kind, when seventy years of human life have passed away, they may perhaps
say, what! another hour already gone! how the time flies!"--From Balfour's Phyto-Theology.

Some of the natives of India who possess extensive estates might think it worth their while
to plant a LABYRINTH for the amusement of their friends. I therefore give a plan of one from
London's Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum. It would not be advisable to occupy much of a
limited estate in a toy of this nature; but where the ground required for it can be easily
spared or would otherwise be wasted, there could be no objection to adding this sort of amusement
to the very many others that may be included in a pleasure ground. The plan here given, resembles
the labyrinth at Hampton Court. The hedges should be a little above a man's height and the
paths should be just wide enough for two persons abreast. The ground should be kept scrupulously
clean and well rolled and the hedges well trimmed, or in this country the labyrinth would soon
be damp and unwholesome, especially in the rains. To prevent its affording a place of refuge
and concealment for snakes and other reptiles, the gardener should cut off all young shoots
and leaves within half a foot of the ground. The centre building should be a tasteful summer-house,
in which people might read or smoke or take refreshments. To make the labyrinth still more
intricate Mr. Loudon suggests that stop-hedges might be introduced across the path, at different
places, as indicated in the figure by dotted lines.[110]

Of strictly Oriental trees and shrubs and flowers, perhaps the majority of Anglo Indians think
with much less enthusiasm than of the common weeds of England. The remembrance of the simplest
wild flower of their native fields will make them look with perfect indifference on the decorations
of an Indian Garden. This is in no degree surprizing. Yet nature is lovely in all lands.

Indian scenery has not been so much the subject of description in either prose or verse as
it deserves, but some two or three of our Anglo-Indian authors have touched upon it. Here is
a pleasant and truthful passage from an article entitled "A Morning Walk in India," written
by the late Mr. Lawson, the Missionary, a truly good and a highly gifted man:--

"The rounded clumps that afford the deepest shade, are formed by the mangoe, the banian, and
the cotton trees. At the verge of this deep-green forest are to be seen the long and slender
hosts of the betle and cocoanut trees; and the grey bark of their trunks, as they catch the
light of the morning, is in clear relief from the richness of the back-ground. These as they
wave their feathery tops, add much to the picturesque interest of the straw-built hovels beneath
them, which are variegated with every tinge to be found amongst the browns and yellows, according
to the respective periods of their construction. Some of them are enveloped in blue smoke,
which oozes through every interstice of the thatch, and spreads itself, like a cloud hovering
over these frail habitations, or moves slowly along, like a strata of vapour not far from the
ground, as though too heavy to ascend, and loses itself in the thin air, so inspiring to all
who have courage to leave their beds and enjoy it. The champa tree forms a beautiful object
in this jungle. It may be recognized immediately from the surrounding scenery. It has always
been a favourite with me. I suppose most persons, at times, have been unaccountably attracted
by an object comparatively trifling in itself. There are also particular seasons, when the
mind is susceptible of peculiar impressions, and the moments of happy, careless youth, rush
upon the imagination with a thousand tender feelings. There are few that do not recollect with
what pleasure they have grasped a bunch of wild flowers, when, in the days of their childhood,
the languor of a lingering fever has prevented them for some weary months from enjoying that
chief of all the pleasures of a robust English boy, a ramble through the fields, where every
tree, and bush, and hillock, and blossom, are endeared to him, because, next to a mother's
caresses, they were the first things in the world upon which he opened his eyes, and, doubtless,
the first which gave him those indescribable feelings of fairy pleasure, which even in his
dreams were excited; while the coloured clouds of heaven, the golden sunshine of a landscape,
the fresh nosegay of dog-roses and early daisies, and the sounds of busy whispering trees and
tinkling brooks presented to the sleeping child all the pure pleasure of his waking moments.
And who is there here that does not sometimes recal some of those feelings which were his solace
perhaps thirty years ago? Should I be wrong, were I to say that even, at his desk, amid all
the excitements and anxieties of commercial pursuits, the weary Calcutta merchant has been
lulled into a sort of pensive reminiscence of the past, and, with his pen placed between his
lips and his fevered forehead leaning upon his hand, has felt his heart bound at some vivid
picture rising upon his imagination. The forms of a fond mother, and an almost angel-looking
sister, have been so strongly conjured up with the scenes of his boyish days, that the pen
has been unceremoniously dashed to the ground, and 'I will go home' was the sigh that heaved
from a bosom full of kindness and English feeling; while, as the dream vanished, plain truth
told its tale, and the man of commerce is still to be seen at his desk, pale, and getting into
years and perhaps less desirous than ever of winding up his concern. No wonder! because the
dearest ties of his heart have been broken, and those who were the charm of home have gone
down to the cold grave, the home of all. Why then should he revisit his native place? What
is the cottage of his birth to him? What charms has the village now for the gentleman just
arrived from India? Every well remembered object of nature, seen after a lapse of twenty years,
would only serve to renew a host of buried, painful feelings. Every visit to the house of a
surviving neighbour would but bring to mind some melancholy incident; for into what house could
he enter, to idle away an hour, without seeing some wreck of his own family, such as a venerable
clock, once so loved for the painted moon that waxed and waned to the astonishment of the gazer,
or some favorite ancient chair, edged so nobly with rows of brass nails,

    --but perforated sore, and dull'd in holes
    By worms voracious, eating through and through.

These are little things, but they are objects which will live in his memory to the latest day
of his life, and with which are associated in his mind the dearest feelings and thoughts of
his happiest hours."

Here is an attempt at a description in verse of some of the most common

TREES AND FLOWERS OF BENGAL

    This land is not my father land,
    And yet I love it--for the hand
    Of God hath left its mark sublime
    On nature's face in every clime--

    Though from home and friends we part,
    Nature and the human heart
    Still may soothe the wanderer's care--
    And his God is every where

    Beneath BENGALA'S azure skies,
    No vallies sink, no green hills rise,
    Like those the vast sea billows make--
    The land is level as a lake[111]
    But, oh, what giants of the wood
    Wave their wide arms, or calmly brood
    Each o'er his own deep rounded shade
    When noon's fierce sun the breeze hath laid,
    And all is still. On every plain
    How green the sward, or rich the grain!
    In jungle wild and garden trim,
    And open lawn and covert dim,
    What glorious shrubs and flowerets gay,
    Bright buds, and lordly beasts of prey!
    How prodigally Gunga pours
    Her wealth of waves through verdant shores
    O'er which the sacred peepul bends,
    And oft its skeleton lines extends
    Of twisted root, well laved and bare,
    Half in water, half in air!

    Fair scenes! where breeze and sun diffuse
    The sweetest odours, fairest hues--
    Where brightest the bright day god shows,
    And where his gentle sister throws
    Her softest spell on silent plain,
    And stirless wood, and slumbering main--
    Where the lucid starry sky
    Opens most to mortal eye
    The wide and mystic dome serene
    Meant for visitants unseen,
    A dream like temple, air built hall,
    Where spirits pure hold festival!

    Fair scenes! whence envious Art might steal
    More charms than fancy's realms reveal--
    Where the tall palm to the sky
    Lifts its wreath triumphantly--
    And the bambu's tapering bough
    Loves its flexile arch to throw--
    Where sleeps the favored lotus white,
    On the still lake's bosom bright--
    Where the champac's[112] blossoms shine,
    Offerings meet for Brahma's shrine,
    While the fragrance floateth wide
    O'er velvet lawn and glassy tide--
    Where the mangoe tope bestows
    Night at noon day--cool repose,
    Neath burning heavens--a hush profound
    Breathing o'er the shaded ground--
    Where the medicinal neem,
    Of palest foliage, softest gleam,
    And the small leafed tamarind
    Tremble at each whispering wind--
    And the long plumed cocoas stand
    Like the princes of the land,
    Near the betel's pillar slim,
    With capital richly wrought and trim--
    And the neglected wild sonail
    Drops her yellow ringlets pale--
    And light airs summer odours throw
    From the bala's breast of snow--
    Where the Briarean banyan shades
    The crowded ghat, while Indian maids,
    Untouched by noon tide's scorching rays,
    Lave the sleek limb, or fill the vase
    With liquid life, or on the head
    Replace it, and with graceful tread
    And form erect, and movement slow,
    Back to their simple dwellings go--
    [Walls of earth, that stoutly stand,
    Neatly smoothed with wetted hand--
    Straw roofs, yellow once and gay,
    Turned by time and tempest gray--]
    Where the merry minahs crowd
    Unbrageous haunts, and chirrup loud--
    And shrilly talk the parrots green
    'Midst the thick leaves dimly seen--
    And through the quivering foliage play,
    Light as buds, the squirrels gay,
    Quickly as the noontide beams
    Dance upon the rippled streams--
    Where the pariah[113] howls with fear,
    If the white man passeth near--
    Where the beast that mocks our race
    With taper finger, solemn face,
    In the cool shade sits at ease
    Calm and grave as Socrates--
    Where the sluggish buffaloe
    Wallows in mud--and huge and slow,
    Like massive cloud of sombre van,
    Moves the land leviathan--[114]
    Where beneath the jungle's screen
    Close enwoven, lurks unseen
    The couchant tiger--and the snake
    His sly and sinuous way doth make
    Through the rich mead's grassy net,
    Like a miniature rivulet--
    Where small white cattle, scattered wide,
    Browse, from dawn to even tide--
    Where the river watered soil
    Scarce demands the ryot's toil--
    And the rice field's emerald light
    Out vies Italian meadows bright,--
    Where leaves of every shape and dye,
    And blossoms varied as the sky,
    The fancy kindle,--fingers fair
    That never closed on aught but air--
    Hearts, that never heaved a sigh--
    Wings, that never learned to fly--
    Cups, that ne'er went table round--
    Bells, that never rang with sound--
    Golden crowns, of little worth--
    Silver stars, that strew the earth--
    Filagree fine and curious braid,
    Breathed, not labored, grown, not made--
    Tresses like the beams of morn
    Without a thought of triumph worn--
    Tongues that prate not--many an eye
    Untaught midst hidden things to pry--
    Brazen trumpets, long and bright,
    That never summoned to the fight--
    Shafts, that never pierced a side--
    And plumes that never waved with pride;--
    Scarcely Art a shape may know
    But Nature here that shape can show.

    Through this soft air, o'er this warm sod,
    Stern deadly Winter never trod;
    The woods their pride for centuries wear,
    And not a living branch is bare;
    Each field for ever boasts its bowers,
    And every season brings its flowers.

D.L.R.

We all "uphold Adam's profession": we are all gardeners, either practically or theoretically.
The love of trees and flowers, and shrubs and the green sward, with a summer sky above them,
is an almost universal sentiment. It may be smothered for a time by some one or other of the
innumerable chances and occupations of busy life; but a painting in oils by Claude or Gainsborough,
or a picture in words by Spenser or Shakespeare that shall for ever

    Live in description and look green in song,

or the sight of a few flowers on a window-sill in the city, can fill the eye with tears of
tenderness, or make the secret passion for nature burst out again in sudden gusts of tumultuous
pleasure and lighten up the soul with images of rural beauty. There are few, indeed, who, when
they have the good fortune to escape on a summer holiday from the crowded and smoky city and
find themselves in the heart of a delicious garden, have not a secret consciousness within
them that the scene affords them a glimpse of a true paradise below. Rich foliage and gay flowers
and rural quiet and seclusion and a smiling sun are ever associated with ideas of earthly felicity.

    And oh, if there be an Elysium on earth,
            It is this, it is this!

The princely merchant and the petty trader, the soldier and the sailor, the politician and
the lawyer, the artist and the artisan, when they pause for a moment in the midst of their
career, and dream of the happiness of some future day, almost invariably fix their imaginary
palace or cottage of delight in a garden, amidst embowering trees and fragrant flowers. This
disposition, even in the busiest men, to indulge occasionally in fond anticipations of rural
bliss--

    In visions so profuse of pleasantness--

shows that God meant us to appreciate and enjoy the beauty of his works. The taste for a garden
is the one common feeling that unites us all.

    One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.

There is this much of poetical sensibility--of a sense of natural beauty--at the core of almost
every human heart. The monarch shares it with the peasant, and Nature takes care that as the
thirst for her society is the universal passion, the power of gratifying it shall be more or
less within the reach of all.[115]

Our present Chief Justice, Sir Lawrence Peel, who has set so excellent an example to his countrymen
here in respect to Horticultural pursuits and the tasteful embellishment of what we call our
"compounds" and who, like Sir William Jones and Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd, sees no reason why
Themis should be hostile to the Muses, has obliged me with the following stanzas on the moral
or rather religious influence of a garden. They form a highly appropriate and acceptable contribution
to this volume.

I HEARD THY VOICE IN THE GARDEN.

    That voice yet speaketh, heed it well--
    But not in tones of wrath it chideth,
    The moss rose, and the lily smell
    Of God--in them his voice abideth.

    There is a blessing on the spot
    The poor man decks--the sun delighteth
    To smile upon each homely plot,
    And why? The voice of God inviteth.

    God knows that he is worshipped there,
    The chaliced cowslip's graceful bending
    Is mute devotion, and the air
    Is sweet with incense of her lending.

    The primrose, aye the children's pet,
    Pale bride, yet proud of its uprooting,
    The crocus, snowdrop, violet
    And sweet-briar with its soft leaves shooting.

    There nestles each--a Preacher each--
    (Oh heart of man! be slow to harden)
    Each cottage flower in sooth doth teach
    God walketh with us in the garden.

I am surprized that in this city (of Calcutta) where so many kinds of experiments in education
have been proposed, the directors of public instruction have never thought of attaching tasteful
Gardens to the Government Colleges--especially where Botany is in the regular course of Collegiate
studies. The Company's Botanic Garden being on the other side of the river and at an inconvenient
distance from the city cannot be much resorted to by any one whose time is precious. An attempt
was made not long ago to have the Garden of the Horticultural Society (now forming part of
the Company's Botanic Garden) on this side of the river, but the public subscriptions that
were called for to meet the necessary expenses were so inadequate to the purpose that the money
realized was returned to the subscribers, and the idea relinquished, to the great regret of
many of the inhabitants of Calcutta who would have been delighted to possess such a place of
recreation and instruction within a few minutes' drive.

Hindu students, unlike English boys in general, remind us of Beattie's Minstrel:--

    The exploit of strength, dexterity and speed
    To him nor vanity, nor joy could bring.

A sort of Garden Academy, therefore, full of pleasant shades, would be peculiarly suited to
the tastes and habits of our Indian Collegians. They are not fond of cricket or leap-frog.
They would rejoice to devote a leisure hour to pensive letterings in a pleasure-garden, and
on an occasional holiday would gladly pursue even their severest studies, book in hand, amidst
verdant bowers. A stranger from Europe beholding them, in their half-Grecian garments, thus
wandering amidst the trees, would be reminded of the disciples of Plato.

"It is not easy," observes Lord Kames, "to suppress a degree of enthusiasm, when we reflect
on the advantages of gardening with respect to virtuous education. In the beginning of life
the deepest impressions are made; and it is a sad truth, that the young student, familiarized
to the dirtiness and disorder of many colleges pent within narrow bounds in populous cities,
is rendered in a measure insensible to the elegant beauties of art and nature. It seems to
me far from an exaggeration, that good professors are not more essential to a college, than
a spacious garden, sweetly ornamented, but without any thing glaring or fantastic, is upon
the whole to inspire our youth with a taste no less for simplicity than for elegance. In this
respect the University of Oxford may justly be deemed a model."

It may be expected that I should offer a few hints on the laying out of gardens. Much has been
said (by writers on ornamental and landscape gardening) on art and nature, and almost always
has it been implied that these must necessarily be in direct opposition. I am far from being
of this opinion. If art and nature be not in some points of view almost identical, they are
at least very good friends, or may easily be made so. They are not necessarily hostile. They
admit of the most harmonious combinations. In no place are such combinations more easy or more
proper than in a garden. Walter Scott very truly calls a garden the child of Art. But is it
not also the child of Nature?--of Nature and Art together? To attempt to exclude art--or even,
the appearance of art--from a small garden enclosure, is idle and absurd. He who objects to
all art in the arrangement of a flower-bed, ought, if consistent with himself, to turn away
with an expression of disgust from a well arranged nosegay in a rich porcelain vase. But who
would not loathe or laugh at such manifest affectation or such thoroughly bad taste? As there
is a time for every thing, so also is there a place for every thing. No man of true judgment
would desire to trace the hand of human art on the form of nature in remote and gigantic forests,
and amidst vast mountains, as irregular as the billows of a troubled sea. In such scenery there
is a sublime grace in wildness,--there "the very weeds are beautiful." But what true judgment
would be enchanted with weeds and wildness in the small parterre. As Pope rightly says, we must

    Consult the genius of the place in all.

It is pleasant to enter a rural lane overgrown with field-flowers, or to behold an extensive
common irregularly decorated with prickly gorse or fern and thistle, but surely no man of taste
would admire nature in this wild and dishevelled state in a little suburban garden. Symmetry,
elegance and beauty, (--no sublimity or grandeur--) trimness, snugness, privacy, cleanliness,
comfort, and convenience--the results of a happy conjunction of art and nature--are all that
we can aim at within a limited extent of ground. In a small parterre we either trace with pleasure
the marks of the gardener's attention or are disgusted with his negligence. In a mere patch
of earth around a domestic dwelling nature ought not to be left entirely to herself.

What is agreeable in one sphere of life is offensive in another. A dirty smock frock and a
soiled face in a ploughman's child who has been swinging on rustic gates a long summer morning
or rolling down the slopes of hills, or grubbing in the soil of his small garden, may remind
us, not unpleasantly, of one of Gainsborough's pictures; but we look for a different sort of
nature on the canvas of Sir Joshua Reynolds or Sir Thomas Lawrence, or in the brilliant drawing-rooms
of the nobility; and yet an Earl's child looks and moves at least as naturally as a peasant's.

There is nature every where--in the palace as well as in the hut, in the cultivated garden
as well as in the wild wood. Civilized life is, after all, as natural as savage life. All our
faculties are natural, and civilized man cultivates his mental powers and studies the arts
of life by as true an instinct as that which leads the savage to make the most of his mud hut,
and to improve himself or his child as a hunter, a fisherman, or a warrior. The mind of man
is the noblest work of its Maker (--in this world--) and the movements of man's mind may be
quite as natural, and quite as poetical too, as the life that rises from the ground. It is
as natural for the mind, as it is for a tree or flower to advance towards perfection. Nature
suggests art, and art again imitates and approximates to nature, and this principle of action
and reaction brings man by degrees towards that point of comparative excellence for which God
seems to have intended him. The mind of a Milton or a Shakespeare is surely not in a more unnatural
condition than that of an ignorant rustic. We ought not then to decry refinement nor deem all
connection of art with nature an offensive incongruity. A noble mansion in a spacious and well
kept park is an object which even an observer who has no share himself in the property may
look upon with pleasure. It makes him proud of his race.[116] We cannot witness so harmonious
a conjunction of art and nature without feeling that man is something better than a mere beast
of the field or forest. We see him turn both art and nature to his service, and we cannot contemplate
the lordly dwelling and the richly decorated land around it--and the neatness and security
and order of the whole scene--without associating them with the high accomplishments and refined
tastes that in all probability distinguish the proprietor and his family. It is a strange mistake
to suppose that nothing is natural beyond savage ignorance--that all refinement is unnatural--that
there is only one sort of simplicity. For the mind elevated by civilization is in a more natural
state than a mind that has scarcely passed the boundary of brutal instinct, and the simplicity
of a savage's hut, does not prevent there being a nobler simplicity in a Grecian temple.

Kent[117] the famous landscape gardener, tells us that nature abhors a straight line. And so
she does--in some cases--but not in all. A ray of light is a straight line, and so also is
a Grecian nose, and so also is the stem of the betel-nut tree. It must, indeed, be admitted
that he who should now lay out a large park or pleasure-ground on strictly geometrical principles
or in the old topiary style would exhibit a deplorable want of taste and judgment. But the
provinces of the landscape gardener and the parterre gardener are perfectly distinct. The landscape
gardener demands a wide canvas. All his operations are on a large scale. In a small garden
we have chiefly to aim at the gardenesque and in an extensive park at the picturesque. Even
in the latter case, however, though

    'Tis Nature still, 'tis nature methodized:

Or in other words:

    Nature to advantage dressed.

for even in the largest parks or pleasure-grounds, an observer of true taste is offended by
an air of negligence or the absence of all traces of human art or care. Such places ought to
indicate the presence of civilized life and security and order. We are not pleased to see weeds
and jungle--or litter of any sort--even dry leaves--upon the princely domain, which should
look like a portion of nature set apart or devoted to the especial care and enjoyment of the
owner and his friends:--a strictly private property. The grass carpet should be trimly shorn
and well swept. The trees should be tastefully separated from each other at irregular but judicious
distances. They should have fine round heads of foliage, clean stems, and no weeds or underwood
below, nor a single dead branch above. When we visit the finest estates of the nobility and
gentry in England it is impossible not to perceive in every case a marked distinction between
the wild nature of a wood and the civilized nature of a park. In the latter you cannot overlook
the fact that every thing injurious to the health and growth and beauty of each individual
tree has been studiously removed, while on the other hand, light, air, space, all things in
fact that, if sentient, the tree could itself be supposed to desire, are most liberally supplied.
There is as great a difference between the general aspect of the trees in a nobleman's pleasure
ground and those in a jungle, as between the rustics of a village and the well bred gentry
of a great city. Park trees have generally a fine air of aristocracy about them.

A Gainsborough or a Morland would seek his subjects in remote villages and a Watteau or a Stothard
in the well kept pleasure ground. The ruder nature of woods and villages, of sturdy ploughmen
and the healthy though soiled and ragged children in rural neighbourhoods, affords a by no
means unpleasing contrast and introduction to the trim trees and smoothly undulating lawns,
and curved walks, and gay parterres, and fine ladies and well dressed and graceful children
on some old ancestral estate. We look for rusticity in the village, and for elegance in the
park. The sleek and noble air of patrician trees, standing proudly on the rich velvet sward,
the order and grace and beauty of all that meets the eye, lead us, as I have said already,
to form a high opinion of the owner. In this we may of course be sometimes disappointed; but
a man's character is generally to be traced in almost every object around him over which he
has the power of a proprietor, and in few things are a man's taste and habits more distinctly
marked than in his park and garden. If we find the owner of a neatly kept garden and an elegant
mansion slovenly, rude and vulgar in appearance and manners, we inevitably experience that
shock of surprize which is excited by every thing that is incongruous or out of keeping. On
the other hand if the garden be neglected and overgrown with weeds, or if every thing in its
arrangement indicate a want of taste, and a disregard of neatness and order, we feel no astonishment
whatever in discovering that the proprietor is as negligent of his mind and person as of his
shrubberies and his lawns.

A civilized country ought not to look like a savage one. We need not have wild nature in front
of our neatly finished porticos. Nothing can be more strictly artificial than all architecture.
It would be absurd to erect an elegantly finished residence in the heart of a jungle. There
should be an harmonious gradation from the house to the grounds, and true taste ought not to
object to terraces of elegant design and graceful urns and fine statues in the immediate neighbourhood
of a noble dwelling.

Undoubtedly as a general rule, the undulating curve in garden scenery is preferable to straight
lines or abrupt turns or sharp angles, but if there should happen to be only a few yards between
the outer gateway and the house, could anything be more fantastical or preposterous than an
attempt to give the ground between them a serpentine irregularity? Even in the most spacious
grounds the walks should not seem too studiously winding, as if the short turns were meant
for no other purpose than to perplex or delay the walker.[118] They should have a natural sweep,
and seem to meander rather in accordance with the nature of the ground and the points to which
they lead than in obedience to some idle sport of fancy. They should not remind us of Gray's
description of the divisions of an old mansion:

    Long passages that lead to nothing.

Foot-paths in small gardens need not be broader than will allow two persons to walk abreast
with ease. A spacious garden may have walks of greater breadth. A path for one person only
is inconvenient and has a mean look.

I have made most of the foregoing observations in something of a spirit of opposition to those
Landscape gardeners who I think once carried a true principle to an absurd excess. I dislike,
as much as any one can, the old topiary style of our remote ancestors, but the talk about free
nature degenerated at last into downright cant, and sheer extravagance; the reformers were
for bringing weeds and jungle right under our parlour windows, and applied to an acre of ground
those rules of Landscape gardening which required a whole county for their proper exemplification.
It is true that Milton's Paradise had "no nice art" in it, but then it was not a little suburban
pleasure ground but a world. When Milton alluded to private gardens, he spoke of their trimness.

                            Retired Leisure
    That in trim gardens takes his pleasure.

The larger an estate the less necessary is it to make it merely neat, and symmetrical, especially
in those parts of the ground that are distant from the house; but near the architecture some
degree of finish and precision is always necessary, or at least advisable, to prevent the too
sudden contrast between the straight lines and artificial construction of the dwelling and
the flowing curves and wild but beautiful irregularities of nature unmoulded by art. A garden
adjacent to the house should give the owner a sense of home. He should not feel himself abroad
at his own door. If it were only for the sake of variety there should be some distinction between
the private garden and the open field. If the garden gradually blends itself with a spacious
park or chase, the more the ground recedes from the house the more it may legitimately assume
the aspect of a natural landscape. It will then be necessary to appeal to the eye of a landscape
gardener or a painter or a poet before the owner, if ignorant of the principles of fine art,
attempt the completion of the general design.

I should like to see my Native friends who have extensive grounds, vary the shape of their
tanks, but if they dislike a more natural form of water, irregular or winding, and are determined
to have them with four sharp corners, let them at all events avoid the evil of several small
tanks in the same "compound." A large tank is more likely to have good water and to retain
it through the whole summer season than a smaller one and is more easily kept clean and grassy
to the water's edge. I do not say that it would be proper to have a piece of winding water
in a small compound--that indeed would be impracticable. But even an oval or round tank would
be better than a square one.[119]

If the Native gentry could obtain the aid of tasteful gardeners, I would recommend that the
level land should be varied with an occasional artificial elevation, nicely sloped or graduated;
but Native malees would be sure to aim rather at the production of abrupt round knobs resembling
warts or excrescences than easy and natural undulations of the surface.

With respect to lawns, the late Mr. Speede recommended the use of the doob grass, but it is
so extremely difficult to keep it clear of any intermixture of the ooloo grass, which, when
it intrudes upon the doob gives the lawn a patchwork and shabby look, that it is better to
use the ooloo grass only, for it is far more manageable; and if kept well rolled and closely
shorn it has a very neat, and indeed, beautiful appearance. The lawns in the compound of the
Government House in Calcutta are formed of ooloo glass only, but as they have been very carefully
attended to they have really a most brilliant and agreeable aspect. In fact, their beautiful
bright green, in the hottest summer, attracts even the notice and admiration of the stranger
fresh from England. The ooloo grass, however, on close inspection is found to be extremely
coarse, nor has even the finest doob the close texture and velvet softness of the grass of
English lawns.

Flower beds should be well rounded. They should never have long narrow necks or sharp angles
in which no plant can have room to grow freely. Nor should they be divided into compartments,
too minute or numerous, for so arranged they must always look petty and toy-like. A lawn should
be as open and spacious as the ground will fairly admit without too greatly limiting the space
for flowers. Nor should there be an unnecessary multiplicity of walks. We should aim at a certain
breadth of style. Flower beds may be here and there distributed over the lawn, but care should
be taken that it be not too much broken up by them. A few trees may be introduced upon the
lawn, but they must not be placed so close together as to prevent the growth of the grass by
obstructing either light or air. No large trees should be allowed to smother up the house,
particularly on the southern and western sides, for besides impeding the circulation through
the rooms of the most wholesome winds of this country, they would attract mosquitoes, and give
an air of gloominess to the whole place.

Natives are too fond of over-crowding their gardens with trees and shrubs and flowers of all
sorts, with no regard to individual or general effects, with no eye to arrangement of size,
form or color; and in this hot and moist climate the consequent exclusion of free air and the
necessary degree of light has a most injurious influence not only upon the health of the resident
but upon vegetation itself. Neither the finest blossoms nor the finest fruits can be expected
from an overstocked garden. The native malee generally plants his fruit trees so close together
that they impede each other's growth and strength. Every Englishman when he enters a native's
garden feels how much he could improve its productiveness and beauty by a free use of the hatchet.
Too many trees and too much embellishment of a small garden make it look still smaller, and
even on a large piece of ground they produce confused and disagreeable effects and indicate
an absence of all true judgment. This practice of over-filling a garden is an instance of bad
taste, analogous to that which is so conspicuously characteristic of our own countrymen in
India with respect to their apartments, which look more like an upholsterer's show-rooms or
splendid ornament-shops than drawing-rooms or parlours. There is scarcely space enough to turn
in them without fracturing some frail and costly bauble. Where a garden is over-planted the
whole place is darkened, the ground is green and slimy, the grass thin, sickly and straggling,
and the trees and shrubs deficient in freshness and vigor.

Not only should the native gentry avoid having their flower-borders too thickly filled,--they
should take care also that they are not too broad. We ought not to be obliged to leave the
regular path and go across the soft earth of the bed to obtain a sight of a particular shrub
or flower. Close and entangled foliage keeps the ground too damp, obstructs wholesome air,
and harbours snakes and a great variety of other noxious reptiles. Similar objections suggest
the propriety of having no shrubs or flowers or even a grass-plot immediately under the windows
and about the doors of the house. A well exposed gravel or brick walk should be laid down on
all sides of the house, as a necessary safeguard against both moisture and vermin.

I have spoken already of the unrivalled beauty of English gravel. It cannot be too much admired.
Kunkur[120] looks extremely smart for a few weeks while it preserves its solidity and freshness,
but it is rapidly ground into powder under carriage wheels or blackened by occasional rain
and the permanent moisture of low grounds when only partially exposed to the sun and air. Why
should not an opulent Rajah or Nawaub send for a cargo of beautiful red gravel from the gravel
pits at Kensington? Any English House of Agency here would obtain it for him. It would be cheap
in the end, for it lasts at least five times as long as the kunkur, and if of a proper depth
admits of repeated turnings with the spade, looking on every turn almost as fresh as the day
on which it was first laid down.

Instead of brick-bat edgings, the wealthy Oriental nobleman might trim all his flower-borders
with the green box-plant of England, which would flourish I suppose in this climate or in any
other. Cobbett in his English Gardener speaks with so much enthusiasm and so much to the purpose
on the subject of box as an edging, that I must here repeat his eulogium on it.

The box is at once the most efficient of all possible things, and the prettiest plant that
can possibly be conceived; the color of its leaf; the form of its leaf; its docility as to
height, width and shape; the compactness of its little branches; its great durability as a
plant; its thriving in all sorts of soils and in all sorts of aspects; its freshness under
the hottest sun, and its defiance of all shade and drip: these are the beauties and qualities
which, for ages upon ages, have marked it out as the chosen plant for this very important purpose.

The edging ought to be clipped in the winter or very early in spring on both sides and at top;
a line ought to be used to regulate the movements of the shears; it ought to be clipped again
in the same manner about midsummer; and if there be a more neat and beautiful thing than this
in the world, all that I can say is, that I never saw that thing.

A small green edging for a flower bed can hardly be too trim; but large hedges with tops and
sides cut as flat as boards, and trees fantastically shaped with the shears into an exhibition
as full of incongruities as the wildest dream, have deservedly gone out of fashion in England.
Poets and prose writers have agreed to ridicule all verdant sculpture on a large scale. Here
is a description of the old topiary gardens.

    These likewise mote be seen on every side
    The shapely box, of all its branching pride
    Ungently shorn, and, with preposterous skill
    To various beasts, and birds of sundry quill
    Transformed, and human shapes of monstrous size.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Also other wonders of the sportive shears
    Fair Nature misadorning; there were found
    Globes, spiral columns, pyramids, and piers
    With spouting urns and budding statues crowned;
    And horizontal dials on the ground
    In living box, by cunning artists traced,
    And galleys trim, or on long voyage bound,
    But by their roots there ever anchored fast.

G. West.

The same taste for torturing nature into artificial forms prevailed amongst the ancients long
after architecture and statuary had been carried to such perfection that the finest British
artists of these times can do nothing but copy and repeat what was accomplished so many ages
ago by the people of another nation. Pliny, in his description of his Tuscan villa, speaks
of some of his trees having been cut into letters and the forms of animals, and of others placed
in such regular order that they reminded the spectator of files of soldiers.[121] The Dutch
therefore should not bear all the odium of the topiary style of gardening which they are said
to have introduced into England and other countries of Europe. They were not the first sinners
against natural taste.

The Hindus are very fond of formally cut hedges and trimmed trees. All sorts of verdant hedges
are in some degree objectionable in a hot moist country, rife with deadly vermin. I would recommend
ornamental iron railings or neatly cut and well painted wooden pales, as more airy, light,
and cheerful, and less favorable to snakes and centipedes.

This is the finest country in the world for making gardens speedily. In the rainy season vegetation
springs up at once, as at the stroke of an Enchanter's wand. The Landscape gardeners in England
used to grieve that they could hardly expect to live long enough to see the effect of their
designs. Such artists would have less reason, to grieve on that account in this country. Indeed
even in England, the source of uneasiness alluded to, is now removed. The writer was not a
bad prophet. He has not yet been dead much more than half a century and his expectations are
already more than half realized. Shakespeare could not have anticipated this triumph of art
when he made Macbeth ask

    Who can impress the forest? Bid the tree
    Unfix his earth-bound root?

The gardeners have at last discovered that the largest (though not perhaps the oldest) trees
can be removed from one place to another with comparative facility and safety. Sir H. Stewart
moved several hundred lofty trees without the least injury to any of them. And if broad and
lofty trees can be transplanted in England, how much more easily and securely might such a
process be effected in the rainy season in this country. In half a year a new garden might
be made to look like a garden of half a century. Or an old and ill-arranged plantation might
thus be speedily re-adjusted to the taste of the owner. The main object is to secure a good
ball of earth round the root, and the main difficulty is to raise the tree and remove it. Many
most ingenious machines for raising a tree from the ground, and trucks for removing it, have
been lately invented by scientific gardeners in England. A Scotchman, Mr. McGlashen, has been
amongst the most successful of late transplanters. He exhibited one of his machines at Paris
to the present Emperor of the French, and lifted with it a fir tree thirty feet high. The French
ruler lavished the warmest commendations on the ingenious artist and purchased his apparatus
at a large price.[122]

Bengal is enriched with a boundless variety of noble trees admirably suited to parks and pleasure
grounds. These should be scattered about a spacious compound with a spirited and graceful irregularity,
and so disposed with reference to the dwelling as in some degree to vary the view of it, and
occasionally to conceal it from the visitor driving up the winding road from the outer gate
to the portico. The trees, I must repeat, should be so divided as to give them a free growth
and admit sufficient light and air beneath them to allow the grass to flourish. Grassless ground
under park trees has a look of barrenness, discomfort and neglect, and is out of keeping with
the general character of the scene.

The Banyan (Ficus Indica or Bengaliensis)--

    The Indian tree, whose branches downward bent,
    Take root again, a boundless canopy--

and the Peepul or Pippul (Ficus Religiosa) are amongst the finest trees in this country--or
perhaps in the world--and on a very spacious pleasure ground or park they would present truly
magnificent aspects. Colonel Sykes alludes to a Banyan at the village of Nikow in Poonah with
68 stems descending from and supporting the branches. This tree is said to be capable of affording
shelter to 20,000 men. It is a tree of this sort which Milton so well describes.

Milton is mistaken as to the size of the leaves of this tree, though he has given its general
character with great exactness.[123]

A remarkable banyan or buri tree, near Manjee, twenty miles west of Patna, is 375 inches in
diameter, the circumference of its shadow at noon measuring 1116 feet. It has sixty stems,
or dropped branches that have taken root. Under this tree once sat a naked fakir who had occupied
that situation for 25 years; but he did not continue there the whole year, for his vow obliged
him to be during the four cold months up to his neck in the water of the Ganges![124]

It is said that there is a banyan tree near Gombroon on the Persian gulf, computed to cover
nearly 1,700 yards.

The Banyan tree in the Company's Botanic garden, is a fine tree, but it is of small dimensions
compared with those of the trees just mentioned.[125]

The cocoanut tree has a characteristically Oriental aspect and a natural grace, but it is not
well suited to the ornamental garden or the princely villa. It is too suggestive of the rudest
village scenery, and perhaps also of utilitarian ideas of mere profit, as every poor man who
has half a dozen cocoanut trees on his ground disposes of the produce in the bazar.

I would recommend my native friends to confine their clumps of plaintain trees to the kitchen
garden, for though the leaf of the plaintain is a proud specimen of oriental foliage when it
is first opened out to the sun, it soon gets torn to shreds by the lightest breeze. The tattered
leaves then dry up and the whole of the tree presents the most beggarly aspect imaginable.
The stem is as ragged and untidy as the leaves.

The kitchen garden and the orchard should be in the rear of the house. The former should not
be too visible from the windows and the latter is on many accounts better at the extremity
of the grounds than close to the house, as we too often find it. A native of high rank should
keep as much out of sight as possible every thing that would remind a visitor that any portion
of the ground was intended rather for pecuniary profit than the immediate pleasure of the owner.
The people of India do not seem to be sufficiently aware that any sign of parsimony in the
management of a large park or pleasure ground produces in the mind of the visitor an unfavorable
impression of the character of the owner. I have seen in Calcutta vast mansions of which every
little niche and corner towards the street was let out to very small traders at a few annas
a month. What would the people of England think of an opulent English Nobleman who should try
to squeeze a few pence from the poor by dividing the street front of his palace into little
pigeon-sheds of petty shops for the retail of petty wares? Oh! Princes of India "reform this
altogether." This sordid saving, this widely published parsimony, is not only not princely,
it is not only not decorous, it is positively disgusting to every passer-by who himself possesses
any right thought or feeling.

The Natives seem every day more and more inclined to imitate European fashions, and there are
few European fashions, which could be borrowed by the highest or lowest of the people of this
country with a more humanizing and delightful effect than that attention to the exterior elegance
and neatness of the dwelling-house, and that tasteful garniture of the contiguous ground, which
in England is a taste common to the prince and the peasant, and which has made that noble country
so full of those beautiful homes which surprize and enchant its foreign visitors.

The climate and soil of this country are peculiarly favorable to the cultivation of trees and
shrubs and flowers; and the garden here is at no season of the year without its ornaments.

The example of the Horticultural Society of India, and the attractions of the Company's Botanic
Garden ought to have created a more general taste amongst us for the culture of flowers. Bishop
Heber tells us that the Botanic Garden here reminded hint more of Milton's description of the
Garden of Eden than any other public garden, that he had ever seen.[126]

There is a Botanic Garden at Serampore. In 1813 it was in charge of Dr. Roxburgh. Subsequently
came the amiable and able Dr. Wallich; then the venerable Dr. Carey was for a time the Officiating
Superintendent. Dr. Voigt followed and then one of the greatest of our Anglo-Indian botanists,
Dr. Griffiths. After him came Dr. McLelland, who is at this present time counting the teak
trees in the forests of Pegu. He was succeeded by Dr. Falconer who left this country but a
few months ago. The garden is now in charge of Dr. Thomson who is said to be an enthusiast
in his profession. He explored the region beyond the snowy range I think with Captain Cunningham,
some years ago. With the exceptions of Voigt and Carey, all who have had charge of the garden
at Serampore have held at the same time the more important appointment of Superintendent of
the Company's Botanic Garden at Garden Beach.

There is a Botanic Garden at Bhagulpore, which owes its origin to Major Napleton. I have been
unable to obtain any information regarding its present condition. A good Botanic Garden has
been already established in the Punjab, where there is also an Agricultural and Horticultural
Society.

I regret that it should have been deemed necessary to make stupid pedants of Hindu malees by
providing them with a classical nomenclature for plants. Hindostanee names would have answered
the purpose just as well. The natives make a sad mess of our simplest English names, but their
Greek must be Greek indeed! A Quarterly Reviewer observes that Miss Mitford has found it difficult
to make the maurandias and alstraemerias and eschxholtzias--the commonest flowers of our modern
garden--look passable even in prose. But what are these, he asks, to the pollopostemonopetalae
and eleutheroromacrostemones of Wachendorf, with such daily additions as the native name of
iztactepotzacuxochitl icohueyo, or the more classical ponderosity of Erisymum Peroffskyanum.

    --like the verbum Graecum
    Spermagoraiolekitholakanopolides,
    Words that should only be said upon holidays,
    When one has nothing else to do.

If these names are unpronounceable even by Europeans, what would the poor Hindu malee make
of them? The pedantry of some of our scientific Botanists is something marvellous. One would
think that a love of flowers must produce or imply a taste for simplicity and nature in all
things.[127]

As by way of encouragement to the native gardeners--to enable them to dispose of the floral
produce of their gardens at a fair price--the Horticultural Society has withdrawn from the
public the indulgence of gratuitous supplies of plants, it would be as well if some men of
taste were to instruct these native nursery-men how to lay out their grounds, (as their fellow-traders
do at home,) with some regard to neatness, cleanliness and order. These flower-merchants, and
even the common malees, should also be instructed, I think, how to make up a decent bouquet,
for if it be possible to render the most elegant things in the creation offensive to the eye
of taste, that object is assuredly very completely effected by these swarthy artists when they
arrange, with such worse than Dutch precision and formality, the ill-selected, ill-arranged,
and tightly bound treasures of the parterre for the classical vases of their British masters.
I am often vexed to observe the idleness or apathy which suffers such atrocities as these specimens
of Indian taste to disgrace the drawing-rooms of the City of Palaces. This is quite inexcusable
in a family where there are feminine hands for the truly graceful and congenial task of selecting
and arranging the daily supply of garden decorations. A young lady--"herself a fairer flower"--is
rarely exhibited to a loving eye in a more delightful point of view than when her delicate
and dainty fingers are so employed.

If a lovely woman arranging the nosegays and flower-vases, in her parlour, is a sweet living
picture, a still sweeter sight does she present to us when she is in the garden itself. Milton
thus represents the fair mother of the fair in the first garden:--

                    Eve separate he spies.
    Veil'd in a cloud of fragrance, where she stood,
    Half spied, so thick the roses blushing round
    About her glow'd, oft stooping to support
    Each flower of slender stalk, whose head, though gay,
    Carnation, purple, azure, or speck'd with gold,
    Hung drooping unsustain'd; them she upstays
    Gently with myrtle band, mindless the while
    Herself, though fairest unsupported flower,
    From her best prop so far, and storm so nigh.
    Nearer he drew, and many a walk traversed
    Of stateliest covert, cedar, pine, or palm;
    Then voluble and bold, now hid, now seen,
    Among thick woven arborets, and flowers
    Imborder'd on each bank, the hand of Eve[128]

Paradise Lost. Book IX.

Chaucer (in "The Knight's Tale,") describes Emily in her garden as fairer to be seen

    Than is the lily on his stalkie green;

And Dryden, in his modernized version of the old poet, says,

    At every turn she made a little stand,
    And thrust among the thorns her lily hand
    To draw the rose.

Eve's roses were without thorns--

    "And without thorn the rose,"[129]

It is pleasant to see flowers plucked by the fairest fingers for some elegant or worthy purpose,
but it is not pleasant to see them wasted. Some people pluck them wantonly, and then fling
them away and litter the garden walks with them. Some idle coxcombs, vain

    Of the nice conduct of a clouded cane,

amuse themselves with switching off their lovely heads. "That's villainous, and shows a most
pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it." Lander says

    And 'tis my wish, and over was my way,
    To let all flowers live freely, and so die.

Here is a poetical petitioner against a needless destruction of the little tenants of the parterre.

    Oh, spare my flower, my gentle flower,
    The slender creature of a day,
    Let it bloom out its little hour,
        And pass away.

    So soon its fleeting charms must lie
    Decayed, unnoticed and o'erthrown,
    Oh, hasten not its destiny,
        Too like thine own.

Lyte.

Those who pluck flowers needlessly and thoughtlessly should be told that other people like
to see them flourish, and that it is as well for every one to bear in mind the beautiful remark
of Lord Bacon that "the breath of flowers is far sweeter in the air than in the hand; for in
the air it comes and goes like the warbling of music."

The British portion of this community allow their exile to be much more dull and dreary than
it need be, by neglecting to cultivate their gardens, and leaving them entirely to the taste
and industry of the malee. I never feel half so much inclined to envy the great men of this
now crowded city the possession of vast but gardenless mansions, (partly blocked up by those
of their neighbours,) as I do to felicitate the owner of some humbler but more airy and wholesome
dwelling in the suburbs, when the well-sized grounds attached to it have been touched into
beauty by the tasteful hand of a lover of flowers.

But generally speaking my countrymen in most parts of India allow their grounds to remain in
a state which I cannot help characterizing as disreputable. It is amazing how men or women
accustomed to English modes of life can reconcile themselves to that air of neglect, disorder,
and discomfort which most of their "compounds" here exhibit.

It would afford me peculiar gratification to find this book read with interest by my Hindu
friends, (for whom, chiefly, it has been written,) and to hear that it has induced some of
them to pay more attention to the ornamental cultivation of their grounds; for it would be
difficult to confer upon them a greater blessing than a taste for the innocent and elegant
pleasures of the FLOWER-GARDEN.

SUPPLEMENT.

SACRED TREES AND SHRUBS OF THE HINDUS.

The following list of the trees and shrubs held sacred by the Hindus is from the friend who
furnished me with the list of Flowers used in Hindu ceremonies.[130] It was received too late
to enable me to include it in the body of the volume.

AMALAKI (Phyllanthus emblica).--A tree held sacred to Shiva. It has no flowers, and its leaves
are in consequence used in worshipping that deity as well as Durga, Kali, and others. The natives
of Bengal do not look upon it with any degree of religious veneration, but those of the Upper
Provinces annually worship it on the day of the Shiva Ratri, which generally falls in the latter
end of February or the beginning of March, and on which all the public offices are closed.

ASWATH-THA (Ficus Religiosa).--It is commonly called by Europeans the Peepul tree, by which
name, it is known to the natives of the Upper Provinces. The Bhagavat Gita says that Krishna
in giving an account of his power and glory to Arjuna, before the commencement of the celebrated
battle between the Kauravas and Pándavas at Kurukshetra, identified himself with the Aswath-tha
whence the natives consider it to be a sacred tree.[131]

BILWA OR SREEFUL (Aegle marmelos).--It is the common wood-apple tree, which is held sacred
to Shiva, and its leaves are used in worshipping him as well as Durga, Kali, and others. The
Mahabharat says that when Shiva at the request of Krishna and the Pandavas undertook the protection
of their camp at Kurukshetra on the night of the last day of the battle, between them and the
sons of Dhritarashtra, Aswathama, a friend and follower of the latter, took up a Bilwa tree
by its roots and threw it upon the god, who considering it in the light of an offering made
to him, was so much pleased with Aswathama that he allowed him to enter the camp, where he
killed the five sons of the Pandavas and the whole of the remnants of their army. Other similar
stories are also told of the Bilwa tree to prove its sacredness, but the one I have given above,
will be sufficient to shew in what estimation it is held by the Hindus.

BAT (Ficus indica).--Is the Indian Banian tree, supposed to be immortal and coeval with the
gods; whence it is venerated as one of them. It is also supposed to be a male tree, while the
Aswath-tha or Peepul is looked upon as a female, whence the lower orders of the people plant
them side by side and perform the ceremony of matrimony with a view to connect them as man
and wife.[132]

DURVA' (Panicum dactylon).--A grass held to be sacred to Vishnu, who in his seventh Avatara
or incarnation, as Rama, the son of Dasaratha, king of Oude, assumed the colour of the grass,
which is used in all religious ceremonies of the Hindus. It has medicinal properties.

KA'STA' (Saccharum spontaneum).--It is a large species of grass. In those ceremonies which
the Hindus perform after the death of a person, or with a view to propitiate the Manes of their
ancestors this grass is used whenever the Kusa is not to be had. When it is in flower, the
natives look upon the circumstance as indicative of the close of the rains.

KU'SA (Poa cynosuroides).--The grass to which, reference has been made above. It is used in
all ceremonies performed in connection with the death of a person or having for their object
the propitiation of the Manes of ancestors.

MANSA-SHIJ (Euphorbia ligularia).--This plant is supposed by the natives of Bengal to be sacred
to Mansa, the goddess of snakes, and is worshipped by them on certain days of the months of
June, July, August, and September, during which those reptiles lay their eggs and breed their
young. The festival of Arandhana, which is more especially observed by the lower orders of
the people, is in honor of the Goddess Mansa.[133]

NA'RIKELA (Coccos nucifera).--The Cocoanut tree, which is supposed to possess the attributes
of a Brahmin and is therefore held sacred.[134]

NIMBA (Melia azadirachta).--A tree from the trunk of which the idol at Pooree was manufactured,
and which is in consequence identified with the ribs of Vishnu.[135]

TU'LSI (Ocymum).--The Indian Basil, of which there are several species, such as the Ram Tulsi
(ocymum gratissimum) the Babooye Tulsi (ocymum pilosum) the Krishna Tulsi (osymum sanctum)
and the common Tulsi (ocymum villosum) all of which possess medicinal properties, but the two
latter are held to be sacred to Vishnu and used in his worship. The Puranas say that Krishna
assumed the form of Saukasura, and seduced his wife Brinda. When he was discovered he manifested
his extreme regard for her by turning her into the Tulsi and put the leaves upon his head.[136]

APPENDIX.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FLOWER GARDEN IN INDIA.

The following practical directions and useful information respecting the Indian Flower-Garden,
are extracted from the late Mr. Speede's New Indian Gardener, with the kind permission of the
publishers, Messrs. Thacker Spink and Company of Calcutta.

THE SOIL.

So far as practicable, the soil should be renewed every year, by turning in vegetable mould,
river sand, and well rotted manure to the depth of about a foot; and every second or third
year the perennials should be taken up, and reduced, when a greater proportion of manure may
be added, or what is yet better, the whole of the old earth removed, and new mould substituted.

It used to be supposed that the only time for sowing annuals or other plants, (in Bengal) is
the beginning of the cold weather, but although this is the case with a great number of this
class of plants, it is a popular error to think it applies to all, since there are many that
grow more luxuriantly if sown at other periods. The Pink, for instance, may be sown at any
time, Sweet William thrives best if sown in March or April, the variegated and light colored
Larkspurs should not be put in until December, the Dahlia germinates most successfully in the
rains, and the beautiful class of Zinnias are never seen to perfection unless sown in June.

This is the more deserving of attention, as it holds out the prospect of maintaining our Indian
flower gardens, in life and beauty, throughout the whole year, instead of during the confined
period hitherto attempted.

The several classes of flowering plants are divided into PERENNIAL, BIENNIAL, and ANNUAL.

PERENNIALS.

The HERON'S BILL, Erodium; the STORK'S BILL, Pelargonium; and the CRANE'S BILL, Geranium; all
popularly known under the common designation of Geranium, which gives name to the family, are
well known, and are favorite plants, of which but few of the numerous varieties are found in
this country.

Of the first of these there are about five and twenty fixed species, besides a vast number
of varieties; of which there are here found only the following:--

The Flesh-colored Heron's bill, E. incarnatum, is a pretty plant of about six inches high,
flowering in the hot weather, with flesh-colored blossoms, but apt to become rather straggling.

Of the hundred and ninety species of the second class, independently of their varieties, there
are few indeed that have found their way here, only thirteen, most of which are but rarely
met with.

The Rose-colored Stork's bill, P. roseum, is tuberous rooted, and in April yields pretty pink
flowers.

The Brick-colored Stork's bill, P. lateritium, affords red flowers in March and April.

The Botany Bay Stork's bill, P. Australe, is rare, but may be made to give a pretty red flower
in March.

The Common horse-shoe Stork's bill, P. zonale, is often seen, and yields its scarlet blossoms
freely in April.

The Scarlet-flowered Stork's bill, P. inquinans, affords a very fine flower towards the latter
end of the cold weather, and approaching to the hot; it requires protection from the rains,
as it is naturally of a succulent nature, and will rot at the joints if the roots become at
all sodden: many people lay the pots down on their sides to prevent this, which is tolerably
successful to their preservation.

The Sweet-Scented Stork's bill, P. odoratissimum, with pink flowers, but it does not blossom
freely, and the branches are apt to grow long and straggling.

The Cut-leaved Stork's bill, P. incisum, has small flowers, the petals being long and thin,
and the flowers which appear in April are white, marked with pink.

The Ivy-leaved Stork's bill, P. lateripes, has not been known to yield flowers in this country.

The Rose-scented Stork's bill, P. capitatum, the odour of the leaves is very pleasant, but
it is very difficult to force into blossom.

The Ternate Stork's bill, P. ternatum, has variegated pink flowers in April.

The Oak-leaved Stork's bill, P. quercifolium, is much esteemed for the beauty of its leaves,
but has not been known to blossom in this climate.

The Tooth-leaved Stork's bill, P. denticulatum, is not a free flowerer, but may with care be
made to bloom in April.

The Lemon, or Citron-scented Stork's bill, P. gratum, grows freely, and has a pretty appearance,
but does not blossom.

Of the second class of these plants the forty-eight species have only three representatives.

The Aconite-leaved Crane's bill, G. aconiti-folium, is a pretty plant, but rare, yielding its
pale blue flowers with difficulty.

The Wallich's Crane's bill G. Wallichianum, indigenous to Nepal, having pale pink blossoms
and rather pretty foliage, flowering in March and April; but requiring protection in the succeeding
hot weather, and the beginning of the rains, as it is very susceptible of heat, or excess of
moisture.

Propagation--may be effected by seed to multiply, or produce fresh varieties, but the ordinary
mode of increasing the different sorts is by cuttings, no plant growing more readily by this
mode. These should be taken off at a joint where the wood is ripening, at which point the root
fibres are formed, and put into a pot with a compost of one part garden mould, one part vegetable
mould, and one part sand, and then kept moderately moist, in the shade, until they have formed
strong root fibres, when they may be planted out. The best method is to plant each cutting
in a separate pot of the smallest size. The germinating of the seeds will be greatly promoted
by sinking the pots three parts of their depth in a hot bed, keeping them moist and shaded
and until they germinate.

Soil, &c. A rich garden mould, composed of light loam, rather sandy than otherwise, with very
rotten dung, is desirable for this shrub.

Culture. Most kinds are rapid and luxurious growers, and it is necessary to pay them constant
attention in pruning or nipping the extremities of the shoots, or they will soon become ill-formed
and straggling. This is particularly requisite during the rains, when heat and moisture combine
to increase their growth to excess; allowing them to enjoy the full influence of the sun during
the whole of the cold weather, and part of the hot. At the close of the rains, the plants had
better be put out into the open ground, and closely pruned, the shoots taken off affording
an ample supply of cuttings for multiplying the plants; this putting out will cause them to
throw up strong healthy shoots and rich blossoms; but as the hot weather approaches, or in
the beginning of March, they must be re-placed in moderate sized pots, with a compost similar
to that required for cuttings and placed in the plant shed, as before described. The earth
in the pots should be covered with pebbles, or pounded brick of moderate size, which prevents
the accumulation of moss or fungi. Geraniums should at no time be over watered, and must at
all seasons be allowed a free ventilation.

There is no doubt that if visitors from this to the Cape, would pay a little attention to the
subject, the varieties might be greatly increased, and that without much trouble, as many kinds
may be produced freely by seed, if brought to the country fresh, and sown immediately on arrival;
young plants also in well glazed cases would not take up much space in some of the large vessels
coming from thence.

The ANEMONE has numerous varieties, and is, in England, a very favorite flower, but although
A. cernua is a native of Japan, and many varieties are indigenous to the Cape, it is very rare
here.

The Double anemone is the most prized, but there are several Single and Half double kinds which
are very handsome. The stem of a good anemone should be eight or nine inches in height, with
a strong upright stalk. The flower ought not to be less than seven inches in circumference,
the outer row of petals being well rounded, flat, and expanding at the base, turning up with
a full rounded edge, so as to form a well shaped cup, within which, in the double kinds, should
arise a large group of long small petals reverted from the centre, and regularly overlapping
each other; the colors clear, each shade being distinct in such as are variegated.

The Garden, or Star Wind flower, A. hortensis, Boostan afrooz, is another variety, found in
Persia, and brought thence to Upper India, of a bright scarlet color; a blue variety has also
blossomed in Calcutta, and was exhibited at the Show of February, 1847, by Mrs. Macleod, to
whom Floriculture is indebted for the introduction of many beautiful exotics heretofore new
to India. But it is to be hoped this handsome species of flowering plants will soon be more
extensively found under cultivation.

Propagation. Seed can hardly be expected to succeed in this country, as even in Europe it fails
of germinating; for if not sown immediately that it is ripe, the length of journey or voyage
would inevitably destroy its power of producing. Offsets of the tubers therefore are the only
means that are left, and these should not be replanted until they have been a sufficient time
out of the ground, say a month or so, to become hardened, nor should they be put into the earth
until they have dried, or the whole offset will rot by exposure of the newly fractured side
to the moisture of the earth. The tubers should be selected which are plump and firm, as well
as of moderate size, the larger ones being generally hollow; these may be obtained in good
order from Hobart Town.

Soil, &c. A strong rich loamy soil is preferable, having a considerable portion of well rotted
cow-dung, with a little leaf mould, dug to a depth of two feet, and the beds not raised too
high, as it is desirable to preserve moisture in the subsoil; if in pots, this is effected
by keeping a saucer of water under them continually, the pot must however be deep, or the fibres
will have too much wet; an open airy situation is desirable.

Culture. When the plant appears above ground the earth must be pressed well down around the
root, as the crowns and tubers are injured by exposure to dry weather, and the plants should
be sheltered from the heat of the sun, but not so as to confine the air; they require the morning
and evening sun to shine on them, particularly the former.

The IRIS is a handsome plant, attractive alike from the variety and the beauty of its blossoms;
some of them are also used medicinally. All varieties produce abundance of seed, in which form
the plant might with great care be introduced into this country.

The Florence Iris, I. florentina, Ueersa, is a large variety, growing some two feet in height,
the flower being white, and produced in the hot weather.

The Persian Iris I. persica, Hoobur, is esteemed not only for its handsome blue and purple
flowers, but also for its fragrance, blossoming in the latter part of the cold weather; one
variety has blue and yellow blossoms.

The Chinese Iris, I. chinensis, Soosun peelgoosh, in a small sized variety, but has very pretty
blue and purple flowers in the beginning of the hot weather.

Propagation. Besides seed, which should be sown in drills, at the close of the rains, in a
sandy soil, it may be produced by offsets.

Soil, &c. Almost any kind of soil suits the Iris, but the best flowers are obtained from a
mixture of sandy loam, with leaf mould, the Persian kind requiring a larger proportion of sand.

Culture. Little after culture is required, except keeping the beds clear from weeds, and occasionally
loosening the earth. But the roots must be taken, up every two, or at most three years, and
replanted, after having been kept to harden for a month or six weeks; the proper season for
doing this being when the leaves decay after blossoming.

The TUBEROSE, Polianthes, is well deserving of culture, but it is not by any means a rare plant,
and like many indigenous odoriferous flowers, has rather too strong an odour to be borne near
at hand, and it is considered unwholesome in a room.

The Common Tuberose, P. tuberosa, Chubugulshubboo, being a native of India thrives in almost
any soil, and requires no cultivation: it is multiplied by dividing the roots. It flowers at
all times of the year in bunches of white flowers with long sepals.

The Double Tuberose, P. florepleno, is very rich in appearance, and of more delicate fragrance,
although still too powerful for the room. Crows are great destroyers of the blossoms, which
they appear fond of pecking. This variety is more rare, and the best specimens have been obtained
from Hobart Town. It is rather more delicate and requires more attention in culture than the
indigenous variety, and should be earthed up, so as to prevent water lodging around the stem.

The LOBELIA is a brilliant class of flowers which may be greatly improved by careful cultivation.

The Splendid Lobelia, L. splendens, is found in many gardens, and is a showy scarlet flower,
well worthy of culture.

The Pyramidal Lobelia, L. pyramidalis, is a native of Nepal, and is a modest pretty flower,
of a purple color.

Propagation--is best performed by offsets, suckers, or cuttings, but seeds produce good strong
plants, which may with care, be made to improve.

Soil, &c.--A moist, sandy soil is requisite for them, the small varieties especially delighting
in wet ground. Some few of this family are annuals, and the roots of no varieties should remain
more than three years without renewal, as the blossoms are apt to deteriorate; they all flower
during the rains.

The PITCAIRNIA is a very handsome species, having long narrow leaves, with, spined edges and
throwing up blossoms in upright spines.

The Long Stamened Pitcairnia, P. staminea, is a splendid scarlet flower, lasting long in blossom,
which, appears in July or August, and continues till December.

The Scarlet Pitcairnia, P. bromeliaefolia, is also a fine rich scarlet flower, but blossoming
somewhat sooner, and may be made to continue about a month later.

Propagation--is by dividing the roots, or by suckers, which is best performed at the close
of the rains.

Soil, &c. A sandy peat is the favorite soil of this plant, which should be kept very moist.

The DAHLIA, Dahlia; a few years since an attempt was made to rename this beautiful and extensive
family and to call it Georgina, but it failed, and it is still better known throughout the
world by its old name than the new. It was long supposed that the Dahlia was only found indigenous
in Mexico, but Captain Kirke some few years back brought to the notice of the Horticultural
Society, that it was to be met with in great abundance in Dheyra Dhoon, producing many varieties
both single and double; and he has from time to time sent down quantities of seed, which have
greatly assisted its increase in all parts of India. It has also been found in Nagpore.

A good Dahlia is judged of by its form, size, and color. In respect to the first of these its
form should be perfectly round, without any inequalities of projecting points of the petals,
or being notched, or irregular. These should also be so far revolute that the side view should
exhibit a perfect semicircle in its outline, and the eye or prolific disc, in the centre should
be entirely concealed. There has been recently introduced into this country a new variety,
all the petals of which are quilled, which has a very handsome appearance.

In size although of small estimation if the other qualities are defective, it is yet of some
consideration, but the larger flowers are apt to be wanting in that perfect hemispherical form
that is so much admired.

The color is of great importance to the perfection of the flower; of those that are of one
color this should be clear, unbroken, and distinct; but when mixed hues are sought, each color
should be clearly and distinctly defined without any mingling of shades, or running into each
other. Further, the flowers ought to be erect so as to exhibit the blossom in the fullest manner
to the view. The most usual colors of the imported double Dahlias, met with in India, are crimson,
scarlet, orange, purple, and white. Amongst those raised from seed from. Dheyra Dhoon[137]
of the double kind, there are of single colors, crimson, deep crimson approaching to maroon,
deep lilac, pale lilac, violet, pink, light purple, canary color, yellow, red, and white; and
of mixed colors, white and pink, red and yellow, and orange and white: the single ones of good
star shaped flowers and even petals being of crimson, puce, lilac, pale lilac, white, and orange.
Those from Nagpore seed have yielded, double flowers of deep crimson, lilac, and pale purple,
amongst single colors; lilac and blue, and red and yellow of mixed shades; and single flowered,
crimson, and orange, with mixed colors of lilac and yellow, and lilac and white.

Propagation--is by dividing the roots, by cuttings, by suckers, or by seed; the latter is generally
resorted to, where new varieties are desired. Mr. George A. Lake, in an article on this subject
(Gardeners' Magazine, 1833) says: "I speak advisedly, and from, experience, when I assert that
plants raised from cuttings do not produce equally perfect flowers, in regard to size, form,
and fulness, with those produced by plants grown from division of tubers;" and he more fully
shews in another part of the same paper, that this appears altogether conformable to reason,
as the cutting must necessarily for a long period want that store of starch, which is heaped
up in the full grown tuber for the nutriment of the plant. This objection however might be
met by not allowing the cuttings to flower in the season when they are struck.

To those who are curious in the cultivation of this handsome species, it may be well to know
how to secure varieties, especially of mixed colors; for this purpose it is necessary to cover
the blossoms intended for fecundation with fine gauze tied firmly to the foot stalk, and when
it expands take the pollen from the male flowers with a camel's hair pencil, and touch with
it each floret of the intended bearing flower, tying the gauze again over it, and keeping it
on until the petals are withered. The operation requires to be performed two or three successive
days, as the florets do not expand together.

Soil &c. They thrive best in a rich loam, mixed with sand; but should not be repeated too often
on the same spot, as they exhaust the soil considerably.

Culture. The Dahlia requires an open, airy position unsheltered by trees or walls, the plants
should be put out where they are to blossom, immediately on the cessation of the rains, at
a distance of three feet apart, either in rows or in clumps, as they make a handsome show in
a mass; and as they grow should be trimmed from the lower shoots, to about a foot in height,
and either tied carefully to a stake, or, what is better, surrounded by a square or circular
trellis, about five feet in height. As the buds form they should be trimmed off, so as to leave
but one on each stalk, this being the only method by which full, large, and perfectly shaped
blossoms are obtained. Some people take up the tubers every year in February or March, but
this is unnecessary. The plants blossom in November and December in the greatest perfection,
but may with attention be continued from the beginning of October to the end of February.

Those plants which are left in the ground during the whole year should have their roots opened
immediately on the close of the rains, the superabundant or decayed tubers, and all suckers
being removed, and fresh earth filled in. The earth should always be heaped up high around
the stems, and it is a good plan to surround each plant with a small trench to be filled daily
with water so as to keep the stem and leaves dry.

The PINK, Dianthus, Kurunful, is a well known species of great variety, and acknowledged beauty.

The Carnation, D. caryophyilus, Gul kurunful, is by this time naturalized in India, adding
both beauty and fragrance to the parterre; the only variety however that has yet appeared in
the country is the clove, or deep crimson colored: but the success attending the culture of
this beautiful flower is surely an encouragement to the introduction of other sorts, there
being above four hundred kinds, especially as they may be obtained from seed or pipings sent
packed in moss, which will remain in good condition for two or three months, provided no moisture
beyond what is natural to the moss, have access to them.

The distinguishing marks of a good carnation may be thus described: the stem should be tall
and straight, strong, elastic, and having rather short foot stalks, the flower should be fully
three inches in diameter with large well formed petals, round and uncut, long and broad, so
as to stand out well, rising about half an inch above the calyx, and then the outer ones turned
off in a horizontal direction, supporting those of the centre, decreasing gradually in size,
the whole forming a near approach to a hemisphere. It flowers in April and May.

Propagation--is performed either by seed, by layers, or by pipings; the best time for making
the two latter is when the plant is in full blossom, as they then root more strongly. In this
operation the lower leaves should be trimmed off, and an incision made with a sharp knife,
by entering the knife about a quarter of an inch below the joint, passing it through its centre;
it must then be pegged down with a hooked peg, and covered with about a quarter of an inch
of light rich mould; if kept regularly moist, the layers will root in about a month's time:
they may then be taken off and planted out into pots in a sheltered situation, neither exposed
to excessive rain, nor sun, until they shoot out freely.

Pipings (or cuttings as they are called in other plants) must be taken off from a healthy,
free growing plant, and should have two complete joints, being cut off horizontally close under
the second one; the extremities of the leaves must also be shortened, leaving the whole length
of each piping two inches; they should be thrown into a basin of soft water for a few minutes
to plump them, and then planted out in moist rich mould, not more than an inch being inserted
therein, and slightly watered to settle the earth close around them; after this the soil should
be kept moderately moist, and never exposed to the sun. Seed is seldom resorted to except to
introduce new varieties.

Soil, &c.--A mixture of old well rotted stable manure, with one-third the quantity of good
fine loamy earth, and a small portion of sand, is the best soil for carnations.

Culture.--The plants should be sheltered from too heavy a fall of rain, although they require
to be kept moderately moist, and desire an airy situation. When the flower stalks are about
six or eight inches in height, they must be supported by sticks, and, if large full blossoms
be sought for, all the buds, except the leading one, must be removed with a pair of scissors;
the calyx must also be frequently examined, as it is apt to burst, and if any disposition to
this should appear, it will be well to assist the uniform expansion by cutting the angles with
a sharp penknife. If, despite all precautions the calyx burst and let out the petals, it should
be carefully tied with thread, or a circular piece of card having a hole in the centre should
be drawn over the bud so as to hold the petals together, and display them to advantage by the
contrast of the white color.

Insects, &c.--The most destructive are the red, and the large black ant, which attack, and
frequently entirely destroy the roots before you can be aware of its approach; powdered turmeric
should therefore be constantly kept strewed around this flower.

The Common Pink, Dianthus Chinensis, Kurunful, and the Sweet William, D: barbatus, are pretty,
ornamental plants, and may be propagated and cultivated in the same way as the carnation, save
that they do not require so much care, or so good a soil, any garden mould sufficing; they
are also more easily produced from seed.

The VIOLET, Viola, Puroos, is a class containing many beautiful flowers, some highly ornamental
and others odoriferous.

The Sweet Violet, V. odorata, Bunufsh'eh, truly the poet's flower. It is a deserved favorite
for its delightful fragrance as well as its delicate and retiring purple flowers; there is
also a white variety, but it is rare in this country, as is also the double kind. This blossoms
in the latter part of the cold weather.

The Shrubby Violet, V. arborescens, or suffruticosa, Rutunpuroos, grows wild in the hills,
and is a pretty blue flower, but wants the fragrance of the foregoing.

The Dog's Violet, V. canina, is also indigenous in the hills.

Propagation.--All varieties may be propagated by seed, but the most usual method is by dividing
the roots, or taking off the runners.

Soil, &c.--The natural habitat of the indigenous varieties is the sides and interstices of
the rocks, where leaf mould, and micaceous sand, has accumulated and moisture been retained,
indicating that the kind of soil favorable to the growth of this interesting little plant is
a rich vegetable mould, with an admixture of sand, somewhat moist, but having a dry subsoil.

Culture.--It would not be safe to trust this plant in the open ground except during a very
short period of the early part of the cold weather, when the so doing will give it strength
to form blossoms. In January, however, it should be re-potted, filling the pots about half-full
of pebbles or stone-mason's cuttings, over which should be placed good rich vegetable mould,
mixed with a large proportion of sand, covering with a thin layer of the same material as has
been put into the bottom of the pot; a top dressing of ground bones is said to improve the
fineness of the blossoms. They should not be kept too dry, but at the same time watered cautiously,
as too much of either heat or moisture destroys the plants.

The Pansy or Heart's-ease, V. tricolor, Kheeroo, kheearee, derives its first name from the
French Pensée. It was known amongst the early Christians by the name of Flos Trinitatis, and
worn as a symbol of their faith. The high estimation which it has of late years attained in
Great Britain as a florist's flower has, in the last two or three years, extended itself to
this country. There are nearly four hundred varieties, a few of which only have been found here.

The characters of a fine Heart's-ease are, the flower being well expanded, offering a flat,
or if any thing, rather a revolute surface, and the petals so overlapping each other as to
form a circle without any break in the outline. These should be as nearly as possible of a
size, and the greater length of the two upper ones concealed by the covering of those at the
side in such manner as to preserve the appearance of just proportion: the bottom petal being
broad and two-lobed, and well expanded, not curving inwards. The eye should be of moderate,
or rather small size, and much additional beauty is afforded, if the pencilling is so arranged
as to give the appearance of a dark angular spot. The colors must also be clear, bright, and
even, not clouded or indistinct. Undoubtedly the handsomest kinds are those in which the two
upper petals are of deep purple and the triade of a shade less: in all, the flower stalk should
be long and stiff. The plant blossoms in this country in February and March, although it is
elsewhere a summer flower.

Propagation.--In England the moat usual methods are dividing the roots, layers, or cuttings
from the stem, and these are certainly the only sure means of preserving a good variety; but
it is almost impossible in India to preserve the plant through the hot weather, and therefore
it is more generally treated as an annual, and raised every year from seed, which should be
sown at the close of the rains; as however their growth, in India is as yet little known, most
people put the imported seed into pots as soon as it arrives, lest the climate should deteriorate
its germinating power, as it is well known, that even in Europe the seed should be sown as
soon as possible after ripening. It will be well also to assist its sprouting with a little
bottom heat, by plunging the pot up to its rim in a hot bed. American seed should be avoided
as the blossoms are little to be depended on, and generally yield small, ill-formed flowers,
clouded and run in color.

Soil, &c.--This should be moist, and the best compost is formed of one-sixth of well rotted
dung from an old hot bed, and five-sixth of loam, or one-fourth of leaf mould and the remainder
loam, but in either case well incorporated and exposed for some time previous to use to the
action of the sun and air by frequent turning.

Culture.--A shady situation is to be preferred, especially for the dark varieties which assume
a deeper hue if so placed. But it has been observed by Mackintosh, that "the light varieties
bloomed lighter in the shade, and darker in the sunshine--a very remarkable effect, for which
I cannot account." The plants must at all times be kept moist, never being allowed to become
dry, and should be so placed as to receive only the morning sun before ten o'clock. Under good
management the plants will extend a foot or more in height, and have a handsome appearance
if trained over a circular trellis of rattan twisted. When they rise too high, or it is desirable
to fill out with side shoots, the tops must be pinched off, and larger flowers will be obtained
if the flower buds are thinned out where they appear crowded.

These plants look very handsome when grown in large masses of several varieties, but the seeds
of those grown in this manner should not be made use of, as they are sure to sport; to prevent
which it is also necessary that the plants which it is desired to perpetuate in this manner
should be isolated at a distance from any other kind, and it would be advisable to cover them
with thin gauze to prevent impregnation from others by means of the bees and other insects.
For show flowers the branches should be kept down, and not suffered to straggle out or multiply;
these will also be improved by pegging the longer branches down under the soil, and thereby
increasing the number of the root fibres, hence adding to their power of accumulating nourishment,
and not allowing them to expand beyond a limited number of blossoms, and those retained should
be as nearly equal in age as possible.

The HYDRANGEA is a hardy plant requiring a good deal of moisture, being by nature an inhabitant
of the marshes.

The Changeable Hydrangea, H. hortensis, is of Chinese origin and a pretty growing plant that
deserves to be a favorite; it blossoms in bunches of flowers at the extremities of the branches
which are naturally pink, but in old peat earth, or having a mixture of alum, or iron filings,
the color changes to blue. It blooms in March and April.

Propagation may be effected by cuttings, which root freely, or by layers.

Soil, &c.--Loam and old leaf mould, or peat with a very small admixture of sand suits this
plant. Their growth is much promoted by being turned out, for a month or two in the rains,
into the open ground, and then re-potted with new soil, the old being entirely removed from
the roots: and to make it flower well it must not be encumbered with too many branches.

The HOYA is properly a trailing plant, rooting at the joints, but have been generally cultivated
here as a twiner.

The Fleshy-leaved Hoya, H. carnosa, is vulgarly called the wax flower from its singular star
shaped-whitish pink blossoms, with a deep colored varnished centre, having more the appearance
of a wax model than a production of nature. The flowers appear in globular groups and have
a very handsome appearance from the beginning of April to the close of the rains.

The Green flowered Hoya, H. viridiflora, Nukchukoree, teel kunga, with its green flowers in
numerous groups, is also an interesting plant, it is esteemed also for its medicinal properties.

Propagation.--Every morsel of these plants, even a piece of the leaf, will form roots if put
in the ground, cuttings therefore strike very freely, as do layers, the joints naturally throwing
out root-fibres although not in the earth.

Soil, &c.--A light loam moderately dry is the best for these plants, which look well if trained
round a circular trellis in the open border.

The STAPELIA is an extensive genus of low succulent plants without leaves, but yielding singularly
handsome star-shaped flowers; they are of African origin growing in the sandy deserts, but
in a natural state very diminutive being increased to their present condition and numerous
varieties by cultivation, they mostly have an offensive smell whence some people call them
the carrion plant. They deserve more attention than has hitherto been shown to them in India.

The Variegated Stapelia, S. variegata, yields a flower in November, the thick petals of which
are yellowish green with brown irregular spots, it is the simplest of the family.

The Revolute-flowered Stapelia, S. revoluta, has a green blossom very fully sprinkled with
deep purple, it flowers at the close of the rains.

The Toad Stapelia, S. bufonia, as its name implies, is marked like the back of the reptile
from whence it has its name; it flowers in December and January.

The Hairy Stapelia, S. hirsuta, is a very handsome variety, being, like the rest, of green
and brown, but the entire flower covered with fine filaments or hairs of a light purple, at
various periods of the year.

The Starry Stapelia, S. stellaris, is perhaps the most beautiful of the whole, being like the
last covered with hairs, but they are of a bright pinkish blue color; there appears to be no
fixed period for flowering.

The HAIRY CARRULLUMA, C. crinalata, belongs to the same family as the foregoing species, which
it much resembles, except that it blossoms in good sized globular groups of small star-shaped
flowers of green, studded and streaked with brown.

Propagation is exceedingly easy with each of the last named two species; as the smallest piece
put in any soil that is moist, without being saturated, will throw out root fibres.

Soil, &c.--This should consist of one-half sand, one-fourth garden mould, and one-fourth well
rotted stable manure. The pots in which they are planted should have on the top a layer of
pebbles, or broken brick. All the after culture they require is to keep them within bounds,
removing decayed portions as they appear and avoiding their having too much moisture.

The perennial border plants, besides those included above, are very numerous; the directions
for cultivation admitting, from their similarity, of the following general rules:--

Propagation.--Although some few will admit of other modes of multiplication, the most usually
successful are by seed, by suckers, or by offsets, and by division of the root, the last being
applicable to nine-tenths of the hardy herbaceous plants, and performed either by taking up
the whole plant and gently separating it by the hand, or by opening the ground near the one
to be divided, and cutting off a part of the roots and crown to make new the sections being
either at once planted where they are to stand, or placed for a short period in a nursery;
the best time for this operation is the beginning of the rains. Offsets or suckers being rapidly
produced during the rains, will be best removed towards their close, at which period, also,
seed should be sown to benefit by the moisture remaining in the soil. The depth at which seeds
are buried in the earth varies with their magnitude, all the pea or vetch kind will bear being
put at a depth of from half an inch to one inch; but with the smallest seeds it will be sufficient
to scatter them, on the sifted soil, beating them down with, the palm of the hand.

Culture.--Transplanting this description of plants will be performed to best advantage during
the rains. The general management is comprehended in stirring the soil occasionally in the
immediate vicinity of the roots; taking up overgrown plants, reducing and replanting them,
for which the rains is the best time; renewing the soil around the roots; sticking the weak
plants; pruning and trimming others, so as to remove all weakly or decayed parts.

Once a year, before the rains, the whole border should be dug one or two spits deep, adding
soil from the bottom of a tank or river; and again, in the cold weather, giving a moderate
supply of well rotted stable manure, and leaf mould in equal portions.

Crossing is considered as yet in its infancy even in England, and has, except with the Marvel
of Peru, hardly even been attempted in this country. The principles under which this is effected
are fully explained at page 27 of the former part of this work; but it may also be done in
the more woody kinds by grafting one or more of the same genus on the stock of another, the
seed of which would give a new variety.

Saving seed requires great attention in India, as it should be taken during the hot weather
if possible; to effect which the earliest blossoms must be preserved for this purpose. With
some kinds it will be advisable to assist nature by artificial impregnation with a camel hair
pencil, carefully placing the pollen on the point of the stigma. The seeds should be carefully
dried in some open, airy place, but not exposed to the sun, care being afterwards taken that
they shall be deposited in a dry place, not close or damp, whence the usual plan of storing
the seeds in bottles is not advisable.

       *       *       *       *       *

BULBS.

Bulbs have not as yet received that degree of attention in this country (India) that they deserve,
and they may be considered to form a separate class, requiring a mode of culture differing
from that of others. Their slow progress has discouraged many and a supposition that they will
only thrive in the Upper Provinces, has deterred others from attempting to grow them, an idea
which has also been somewhat fostered by the Horticultural Society, when they received a supply
from England, having sent the larger portion of them to their subscribers in the North West
Provinces.

The NARCISSUS will thrive with care, in all parts of India, and it is a matter of surprise
that it is not more frequently met with. A good Narcissus should have the six petals well formed,
regularly and evenly disposed, with a cup of good form, the colors distinct and clear, raised
on strong erect stems, and flowering together.

The Polyanthes Narcissus, N. tazetta, Narjus, hur'huft nusreen, is of two classes, white and
sulphur colored, but these have sported into almost endless varieties, especially amongst the
Dutch, with whom this and most other bulbs are great favorites. It flowers in February and March.

The Poet's Narcissus, N. poeticus, Moozhan, zureenkuda is the favorite, alike for its fragrance
and its delicate and graceful appearance, the petals being white and the cup a deep yellow:
it flowers from the beginning of January to the end of March and thrives well. The first within
the recollection of the author, in Bengal, was at Patna, nearly twelve years since, in possession
of a lady there under whose care it blossomed freely in the shade, in the month of February.

The Daffodil, N. pseudo-narcissus, Khumsee buroonk, is of pale yellow, and some of the double
varieties are very handsome.

Propagation is by offsets, pulled off after the bulbs are taken out of the ground, and sufficiently
hardened.

Soil, &c.--The best is a fresh, light loam with some well rotted cow dung for the root fibres
to strike into, and the bottom of the pot to the height of one-third filled with pebbles or
broken brick. They will not blossom until the fifth year, and to secure strong flowers the
bulbs should only be taken up every third year. An eastern aspect where they get only the morning
sun, is to be preferred. The PANCRATIUM is a handsome species that thrives well, some varieties
being indigenous, and others fully acclimated, generally flowering about May or June.

The One-flowered Pancratium, P. zeylanicum, is rather later than the rest in flowering and
bears a curiously formed white flower.

The Two-flowered Pancratium, P. triflorum, Sada kunool, was so named by Roxburg, and gives
a white flower in groups of threes, as its name implies.

The Oval leaved pancratium, P. ovatum, although of West Indian origin, is so thoroughly acclimated
as to be quite common in the Indian Garden.

Propagation.--The best method is by suckers or offsets which are thrown out very freely by
all the varieties.

Soil, &c.--Any common garden soil will suit this plant, but they thrive best with a good admixture
of rich vegetable mould.

The HYACINTH, Hyacinthus, is an elegant flower, especially the double kind. The first bloomed
in Calcutta was exhibited at the flower show some three years since, but proved an imperfect
blossom and not clear colored; a very handsome one, however, was shown by Mrs. Macleod in February
1847, and was raised from a stock originally obtained at Simlah. The Dutch florists have nearly
two thousand varieties.

The distinguishing marks of a good hyacinth are clear bright colors, free from clouding or
sporting, broad bold petals, full, large and perfectly doubled, sufficiently revolute to give
the whole mass a degree of convexity: the stem strong and erect and the foot stalks horizontal
at the base, gradually taking an angle upwards as they approach the crown, so as to place the
flowers in a pyramidical form, occupying about one-half the length of the stem.

The Amethyst colored Hyacinth, H. amethystimus, is a fine handsome flower, varying in shade
from pale blue to purple, and having bell shaped flowers, but the foot stalks are generally
not strong and they are apt to become pendulous.

The Garden Hyacinth, H. orientalis, Sumbul, abrood, is the handsomer variety, the flowers being
trumpet shaped, very double and of varying colors--pink, red, blue, white, or yellow, and originally
of eastern growth. It flowers in February and has considerable fragrance.

Propagation.--In Europe this is sometimes performed by seed, but as this requires to be put
into the ground as soon as possible after ripening, and moreover takes a long time to germinate,
this method would hardly answer in this country, which must therefore, at least for the present,
depend upon imported bulbs and offsets.

Soil, &c.--This, as well as its after culture, is the same as for the Narcissus. They will
not show flowers until the second year, and not in good bloom before the fifth or sixth of
their planting out.

The CROCUS, Crocus lutens, having no native name, has yet, it is believed, been hardly ever
known to flower here, even with the utmost care. A good crocus has its colors clear, brilliant,
and distinctly marked.

Propagation--must be effected, for new varieties, by seeds, but the species are multiplied
by offsets of the bulb.

Soil, &c. Any fair garden soil is good for the crocus, but it prefers that which is somewhat sandy.

Culture. The small bulbs should be planted in clumps at the depth of two inches; the leaves
should not be cut off after the plant has done blossoming, as the nourishment for the future
season's flower is gathered by them.

The IXIA, is originally from the Cape, and belongs to the class of Iridae: the Ixia Chinensis,
more properly Morea Chinensis, is a native of India and China, and common in most gardens.

Propagation--is by offsets.

Soil, &c. The best is of peat and sand, it thrives however in good garden soil, if not too
stiff, and requires no particular cultivation.

The LILY, Lilium, Soosun, the latter derived from the Hebrew, is a handsome species that deserves
more care than it has yet received in India, where some of the varieties are indigenous.

The Japan Lily, L. japonicum, is a very tall growing plant, reaching about 5 feet in height
with broad handsome flowers of pure white, and a small streak of blue, in the rains.

The Daunan Lily, L. dauricum, Rufeef, soosun, gives an erect, light orange flower in the rains.

The Canadian lily, L. Canadense B'uhmutan, flowers in the rains in pairs of drooping reflexed
blossoms of a rather darker orange, sometimes spotted with a deeper shade.

Propagation--is effected by offsets, which however will not flower until the third or fourth year.

Soil, &c. This is the same as for the Narcissus, but they do not require taking up more frequently
than once in three years, and that only for about a month at the close of the rains, the Japan
lily will thrive even under the shade of trees.

The AMARYLLIS is a very handsome flower, which has been found to thrive well in this country,
and has a great variety, all of which possess much beauty, some kinds are very hardy, and will
grow freely in the open ground.

The Mexican Lily, A. regina Mexicanae, is a common hardy variety found in most gardens, yielding
an orange red flower in the months of March and April, and will thrive even under the shades
of trees.

The Ceylonese Amaryllis, A: zeylanica, Suk'h dursun, gives a pretty flower about the same period.

The Jacoboean Lily, A, formosissima, has a handsome dark red flower of singular form, having
three petals well expanded above, and three others downwards rolled over the fructile organs
on the base, so as to give the idea of its being the model whence the Bourbon fleur de lis
was taken, the stem is shorter than the two previous kinds, blossoming in April or May.

The Noble Amaryllis, A: insignia, is a tall variety, having pink flowers in March or April.

The Broad-leaved Amaryllis, A: latifolia, is a native of India with pinkish white flowers about
the same period of the year.

The Belladonna Lily. A: belladonna is of moderately high stem, supporting a pink flower of
the same singular form as the Jacoboean lily, in May and June.

Propagation--is by offsets of the bulb, which most kinds throw out very freely, sometimes to
the extent of ten, or a dozen in the season.

Soil, &c.--For the choice kinds is the same as is required for the narcissus, and water should
on no account be given over the leaves or upper part of the bulb.

The common kinds look well in masses, and a good form of planting them is in a series of raised
circles, so as for the whole to form a round bed.

The DOG'S TOOTH VIOLET, Erythronium, is a pretty flowering bulb and a great favorite with florists
in Europe.

The Common Dog's tooth Violet, E. dens canis, is ordinarily found of reddish purple, there
is also a white variety, but it is rare, neither of them grow above three or four inches in
height, and flower in March or April.

The Indian Dog's tooth Violet, E. indicum, junglee kanda, is found in the hills, and flowers
at about the same time, with a pink blossom.

The SUPERB GLORIOSA, Gloriosa superba, Kareearee, eeskooee langula, is a very beautiful species
of climbing bulb, a native of this country, and on that account neglected, although highly
esteemed as a stove plant in England; the leaves bear tendrils at the points, and the flower,
which is pendulous, when first expanded, throws its petals nearly erect of yellowish green,
which gradually changes to yellow at the base and bright scarlet at the point; the pistil which
shoots from the seed vessel horizontally possesses the singular property of making an entire
circuit between sun-rise and sun-set each day that the flower continues, which is generally
for some time, receiving impregnation from every author as it visits them in succession. It
blooms in the latter part of the rains.

Propagation is in India sometimes from seed, but in Europe it is confined to division of the
offsets.

Soil, &c.--Most garden soils will suit this plant, but it affords the handsomest, and richest
colored flowers in fresh loam mixed with peat or leaf mould, without dung. It should not have
too much water when first commencing its growth, and it requires the support of a trellis over
which it will bear training to a considerable extent, growing to the height of from five to
six feet.

MANY OTHER BULBS, there is no doubt, might be successfully grown in India where every thing
is favorable to their growth, and so much facility presents itself for procuring them from
the Cape of Good Hope; the natural habitat of so many varieties of the handsomest species,
nearly all of them flowering between the end of the cold weather and the close of the rains.

Some of these being hardy, thrive in the open ground with but little care or trouble, others
requiring very great attention, protection from exposure, and shelter from the heat of the
sun, and the intensity of its rays; which should therefore have a particular portion of the
plant-shed assigned to them, such being inhabitants of the green house in colder climates,
and the reason of assigning them such separated part of the chief house, or what is better
perhaps, a small house to themselves, is that in culture, treatment, and other respects they
do not associate with plants of a different character.

One great obstacle which the more extensive culture of bulbs has had to contend against, may
be found in that impatience that refuses to give attention to what requires from three to five
years to perfect, generally speaking people in India prefer therefore to cultivate such plants
only as afford an immediate result, especially with relation to the ornamental classes.

Propagation.--The bulb after the formation of the first floral core is instigated by nature
to continue its species, as immediately the flower fades the portion of bulb that gave it birth
dies, for which purpose it each year forms embryo bulbs on each side of the blossoming one,
and which although continued in the same external coat, are each perfect and complete plants
in themselves, rising from the crown of the root fibres: in some kinds this is more distinctly
exhibited by being as it were, altogether outside and distinct from, the main, or original
bulb. These being separated for what are called offsets, and should be taken off only when
the parent bulb has been taken up and hardened, or the young plant will suffer.

Some species of bulbous rooted plants produce seeds, but this method of reproduction, can seldom
be resorted to in this country, and certainly not to obtain new kinds, as the seeds require
to be sown as soon as ripe.

Soil, Culture, &c.--For the delicate and rare bulbs, it is advisable to have pots purposely
made of some fifteen inches in height with a diameter of about seven or eight inches at the
top, tapering down to five, with a hole at the bottom as in ordinary flower pots, and for this
to stand in, another pot should be made without any hole, of a height of about four inches,
sufficient size to leave the space of about an inch all round between the outer side of the
plant pot and the inner side of the smaller pot or saucer.

This will allow the plant pot to be filled with crocks, pebbles, or stone chippings to the
height of five inches, or about an inch higher than the level of the water in the saucer, above
which may be placed eight inches in depth of soil and one inch on the top of that, pebbles
or small broken brick. By this arrangement, the saucer being kept filled, or partly filled,
as the plant may require, with water, the fibres of the root obtain a sufficiency of moisture
for the maintenance and advancement of the plant without chance of injury to the bulb or stem,
by applying water to the upper earth which is also in this prevented from becoming too much
saturated. Light rich sandy loam, with a portion of sufficiently decomposed leaf mould, is
the best soil for the early stages of growing bulbs.

So soon as the leaves change color and wither, then all moisture must be withheld, but as the
repose obtained by this means is not sufficient to secure health to the plant, and ensure its
giving strong blossoms, something more is required to effect this purpose. This being rendered
the more necessary because in those that form offsets by the sides of the old bulbs, they would
otherwise become crowded and degenerate, the same occurring also with those forming under the
old ones, which will get down so deep that they cease to appear.

The time to take up the bulb is when the flower-stem and leaves have commenced decay; taking
dry weather for the purpose, if the bulbs are hardy, or if in pots having reduced the moisture
as above shown, but it must be left to individual experience to discover how long the different
varieties should remain out of the ground, some requiring one month's rest, and others enduring
three or four, with advantage; more than that is likely to be injurious. When out of the ground,
during the first part of the period they are so kept, it should be, say for a fortnight at
least, in any room where no glare exists, with free circulation of air, after which the off-sets
may be removed, and the whole exposed to dry on a table in the verandah, or any other place
that is open to the air, but protected from the sunshine, which would destroy them.

Little peculiarity of after treatment is requisite, except perhaps that the bulbs which are
to flower in the season should have a rather larger proportion of leaf mould in the compost,
and that if handsome flowers are required, it will be well to examine the bulb every week at
least by gently taking the mould from around them, and removing all off-sets that appear on
the old bulb. For the securing strength to the plant also, it will be well to pinch off the
flower so soon as it shews symptoms of decay.

The wire worm is a great enemy to bulbs, and whenever it appears they should be taken up, cleaned,
and re-planted. It is hardly necessary to say that all other vermin and insects must be watched,
and immediately removed.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BIENNIAL BORDER PLANTS.

It is only necessary to mention a few of these, as the curious in floriculture will always
make their own selection, the following will therefore suffice.--

The SPEEDWELL-LEAVED HEDGE HYSSOP, Gratiola veronicifolia, Bhoomee, sooél chumnee, seldom cultivated,
though deserving to be so, has a small blue flower.

The SIMPLE-STALKED LOBELIA, Lobelia simplex, introduced from the Cape, yields a pretty blue flower.

The EVENING PRIMROSE, Oenothera mutabilis, a pretty white flower that blossoms in the evening,
its petals becoming pink by morning.

The FLAX-LEAVED PIMPERNEL, Anagallis linifolia, a rare plant, giving a blue flower in the rains;
introduced from Portugal.

The BROWALLIA, of two lauds, both pretty and interesting plants; originally from South America.

The Spreading Browallia, B. demissa is the smallest of these, and blossoms in single flowers
of bright blue, at the beginning of the cold weather.

The Upright Browallia, B. alata, gives bloom in groups, of a bright blue; there is also a white
variety, both growing to the height of nearly two feet.

The SMALL-FLOWERED TURNSOLE, Heliotropium parviflorum, B'hoo roodee, differs from the rest
of this family which are mostly perennials; it yields groups of white flowers, which are fragrant.

The FLAX-LEAVED CANDYTUFT, Iberis linifolia, with its purple blossoms, is very rare, but it
has been sometimes grown with, success.

The STOCK, Mathiola, is a very popular plant, and deserves more extensive cultivation in this
country.

The Great Sea Stock, M sinuata, is rare and somewhat difficult to bring into bloom, it possesses
some fragrance and its violet colored groups of flowers have rather a handsome appearance about
May.

The Ten weeks' Stock, M annua, is also a pleasing flower about the same time. In England this
is an annual, but here it is not found to bloom freely until the second year, its color is
scarlet, and it has some fragrance.

The Purple Gilly flower, M incana, is a pretty flower of purple color, and fragrant. There
are some varieties of it such as the Double, multiplex, the Brompton, coccinea, and the White,
alba, varying in color and blossoming in April.

The STARWORT, Aster, is a hardy flowering plant not very attractive, except as it yields blossoms
at all seasons, if the foot stalks are cut off as soon as the flower has faded, there are very
numerous varieties of this plant which is, in Europe a perennial, but it is preferable to treat
it here as only biennial, otherwise it degenerates.

The Bushy Starwort, A dumosus, is a free blossoming plant in the rains, with white flowers.

The Silky leaved Starwort, A. sericeus, is Indigenous in the hills, putting forth its blue
blossoms during the rains.

The Hairy Starwort, A pilosus, is of very pale blue, and may, with care, be made to blossom
throughout the year.

The Chinese Starwort, A chinensis, is of dark purple and very prolific of blossoms at all times.

The BEAUTIFUL JUSTICIA, J speciosa, although, described by Roxburgh as a perennial, degenerates
very much after the second year, it affords bright carmine colored flowers at the end of the
cold weather.

The COMMON MARVEL OF PERU, Mirabilis Jalapa Gul abas, krushna kelee, is vulgarly called the
Four o'clock from its blossoms expanding in the afternoon. There are several varieties distinguished
only by difference of color, lilac, red, yellow, orange, and white, which hybridize naturally,
and may easily be obliged to do so artificially, if any particular shades are desired.

The HAIRY INDIGO, Indigofera hirsuta, yields an ornamental flower with abundance of purple
blossoms.

The HIBISCUS This class numbers many ornamental plants, the blossoms of which all maintain
the same character of having a darkened spot at the base of each petal.

The Althaea frutex, H syriacus, Gurhul, yields a handsome purple flower in the latter part
of the rains, there are also a white, and a red variety.

The Stinging Hibiscus H pruriens, has a yellow flower at the same season.

The Hemp leaved Hibiscus, H cannabinus, Anbaree, is much the same as the last.

The Bladder Ketmia, H trionum, is a dwarf species, yellow, with a brown spot at the base of
the petal.

The African Hibiscus H africanus, is a very handsome flower growing to a considerable height,
expanding to the diameter of six to seven inches, of a bright canary color, the dark blown
spots at the base of the petals very distinctly marked, the seeds were considered a great acquisition
when first obtained from Hobarton, but the plant has since been seen in great perfection growing
wild in the Turaee at the foot of the Darjeeling range of hills, blooming in great perfection
at the close of the rains.

The Chinese Hibiscus, H rosa sinensis, Jooua, jasoon, jupa, although, really a perennial flower,
is in greatest perfection if kept as a biennial, it flowers during the greater part of the
season a dark red flower with a darker hued spot, there are also some other varieties of different
colors yellow, scarlet, and purple.

The TREE MALLOW, Lavatera arborea, has of late years been introduced from Europe, and may now
be found in many gardens in India yielding handsome purple flowers in the latter part of the rains.

But it is unnecessary to continue such a mere catalogue, the character and general cultivation
of which require no distinct rules, but may all be resolved into one general method, of which
the following is a sketch.

Propagation--They are all raised from seed, but the finest double varieties require to be continued
by cuttings. The seed should be sown as soon as it can after opening, but if this occur during
the rains, the beds, or pots, perhaps better, must be sheltered, removing the plants when they
are few inches high to the spot where they are to remain, care being at the same time taken
in removing those that have tap roots, such as Hollyhock, Lavatera, &c not to injure them,
as it will check their flowering strongly, the best mode is to sow those in pots and transplant
them, with balls of earth entire, into the borders, at the close of the rains. Cuttings of
such as are multiplied by that method, are taken either from the flower stalks, or root-shoots,
early in the rains, and rooted either in pots, under shelter, or in beds, protected from the
heavy showers.

Culture--Cultivation after the plants are put into the borders, is the same as for perennial
plants. But the duration and beauty of the flowers is greatly improved by cutting off the buds
that shew the earliest, so as to retard the bloom--and for the same reason the footstalk should
be cut off when the flowers fade, for as soon as the plant begins to form seed, the blossoms
deteriorate.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANNUAL BORDER PLANTS.

These are generally known to every one, and many of them are so common as hardly to need notice,
a few of the most usual are however mentioned, rather to recal the scattered thoughts of the
many, than as a list of annuals.

The MIGNIONETTE, Resoda odorata, is too great a favorite both on account of its fragrance and
delicate flowers not to be well known, and by repeated sowings it may be made under care to
give flowers throughout the year but it is advisable to renew the seed occasionally by fresh
importations from Europe, the Cape, or Hobarton.

The PROLIFIC PINK, Dianthus prolifer Kurumful, is a pretty variety; that blossoms freely throughout
the year, sowing to keep up succession, the shades and net work marks on them are much varied,
and they make a very pretty group together.

The LUPINE, Lupinus, is a very handsome class of annuals, many of which grow well in India,
all of them flowering in the cold season.

The Small blue Lupine, L. varius, was introduced from the Cape and is the only one noticed
by Roxburgh.

The Rose, and great blue Lupine, L. pilosus and hirsutus, are both good sized handsome flowers.

The Egyptian, or African Lupins, L. thermis, Turmus, is the only one named in the native language,
and has a white flower.

The Tree Lupine, L. arboreus, is a shrubby plant with a profusion of yellow flowers which has
been successfully cultivated from Hobarton seed.

The CATCHFLY, Silene, the only one known here is the small red, S. rubella, having a very pretty
pink flower appearing in the cold weather.

The LARKSPUR, Delphinum, has not yet received any native name, and deserves to be much more
extensively cultivated, especially the Neapolitan and variegated sorts. The common purple,
D. Bhinensis, being the one usually met with; it should be sown in succession from September
to December, but the rarer kinds must not be put in sooner than the middle of November, as
these do not blossom well before February, March, or April.

The SWEET PEA, Lathyrus odoralus, is not usually cultivated with success, because it has been
generally sown too late in the season, to give a sufficient advance to secure blossoming. The
seeds should be put in about the middle of the rains in pots and afterwards planted out when
these cease, and carefully cultivated to obtain blossoms in February or March.

The ZINNIA, has only of late years been introduced, but by a mistake it has generally been
sown too late in the year to produce good flowers, whereas if the seed is put into the ground
about June, fine handsome flowers will be the result, in the cold weather.

The CENTAURY, Centaurea, is a very pretty class of annuals which grows, and blossoms freely
in this country.

The Woolly Centaury, C. lanata, is mentioned by Roxburgh as indigenous to the country, but
the flowers are very small, of a purple color, blossoming in December.

The Blue bottle O. cyanus, Azeez, flowers in December and January, of pink and blue.

The Sweet Sultan, C. moschata, Shah pusund is known by its fragrant and delicate lilac blossoms
in January and February.

The BALSAM, Impatiens, Gulmu'hudee, doopatee is not cultivated, or encouraged as it should
be in India, where some of the varieties are indigenous. A very rich soil should be used.

Dr. R. Wight observes, that Balsams of the colder Hymalayas, like those of Europe, split from
the base, rolling the segment towards the apex, whilst those of the hotter regions do the reverse.

All annuals require the same, or nearly the same treatment, of which the following may be considered
a fair sketch.

Propagation.--These plants are all raised from seed put in the earth generally on the close
of the rains, although some plants, such as nasturtium, sweet pea, scabious, wall-flower, and
stock, are better to be sown in pots about June or July, and then put out into the border as
soon as the rains cease. The seed must be sown in patches, rings, or small beds according to
taste, the ground being previously stirred, and made quite fine, the earth sifted over them
to a depth proportioned to the size of the seed, and then gently pressed down, so as closely
to embrace every part of the seed. When the plants are an inch high they must be thinned out
to a distance of two, three, five, seven, or more inches apart, according to their kind, whether
spreading, or upright, having reference also to their size; the plants thinned out, if carefully
taken up, may generally be transplanted to fill up any parts of the border where the seed may
have failed.

Culture. Weeding and occasionally stirring the soil, and sticking such as require support,
is all the cultivation necessary for annuals. If it be desired to save seed, some of the earliest
and most perfect blossoms should be preserved for this purpose, so as to secure the best possible
seed for the ensuing year, not leaving it to chance to gather seed from such plants as may
remain after the flowers have been taken, as is generally the case with native gardeners, if
left to themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS THAT GROW UNDER THE SHADE OF TREES.

It is of some value to know what these are, but at the same time it must be observed that no
plant will grow under trees of the fir tribe, and it would be a great risk to place any under
the Deodar--with all others also it must not be expected that any trees having their foliage
so low as to affect the circulation of air under their branches, can do otherwise than destroy
the plants placed beneath them.

Those which may be so planted are;--Wood Anemone.--Common Arum.--Deadly Nightshade--Indian
ditto.--Chinese Clematis--Upright ditto--Woody Strawberry--Woody Geranium.--Green Hellebore.--Hairy
St. John's Wort.--Dog's Violet.--Imperial Fritillaria--The common Oxalis, and some other bulbs.--Common
Hound's Tongue.--Common Antirrhinum.--Common Balsam.--To these may be added many of the orchidaceous
plants.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSES.

THE ROSE, ROSA, Gul or gulab: as the most universally admired, stands first amongst shrubs.
The London catalogues of this beautiful plant contain upwards of two thousand names: Mr. Loudon,
in his "Encyclopaedia of Plants" enumerates five hundred and twenty-two, of which he describes
three species, viz. Macrophylla, Brunonii, and Moschata Nepalensis, as natives of Nepal; two,
viz. Involucrata, and Microphylla, as indigenous to India, and Berberifolia, and Moschata arborea,
as of Persian origin, whilst twelve appear to have come from China. Dr. Roxburgh describes
the following eleven species as inhabitants of these regions:--

Rosa involucrata,
 --  Chinensis,
 --  semperflorens,
 --  recurva,
 --  microphylla,
 --  inermis,
Rosa centiflora,
 --  glandulifera,
 --  pubescens,
 --  diffusa,
 --  triphylla,

most of which, however, he represents to have been of Chinese origin.

The varieties cultivated generally in gardens are, however, all that will be here described.

These are--

1. The Madras rose, or Rose Edward, a variety of R centifolia, Gul ssudburul, is the most common,
and has multiplied so fast within a few years, that no garden is without it, it blossoms all
the year round, producing large bunches of buds at the extremities of its shoots of the year,
but, if handsome, well-shaped flowers are desired, these must be thinned out on their first
appearance, to one or two, or at the most three on each stalk. It is a pretty flower, but has
little fragrance. This and the other double sorts require a rich loam rather inclining to clay,
and they must be kept moist.[138]

2. The Bussorah Rose, R gallica, Gulsooree, red, and white, the latter seldom met with, is
one of a species containing an immense number of varieties. The fragrance of this rose is its
greatest recommendation, for if not kept down, and constantly looked to, it soon gets straggling,
and unsightly, like the preceding species too, the buds issue from the ends of the branches
in great clusters, which must be thinned, if well formed fragrant blossoms are desired. The
same soil is required as for the preceding, with alternating periods of rest by opening the
roots, and of excitement by stimulating manure.

3. The Persian rose, apparently R collina, Gul eeran bears a very full-petaled blossom, assuming
a darker shade as these approach nearer to the centre, but, it is difficult to obtain a perfect
flower, the calyx being so apt to burst with excess of fulness, that if perfect flowers are
required a thread should be tied gently round the bud, it has no fragrance. A more sandy soil
will suit this kind, with less moisture.

4. The Sweet briar R rubiginosa, Gul nusreen usturoon, grows to a large size, and blossoms
freely in India, but is apt to become straggling, although, if carefully clipped, it may be
raised as a hedge the same as in England, it is so universally a favorite as to need no description.

5. The China blush rose, R Indica (R Chinensis of Roxburgh), Kut'h gulab, forms a pretty hedge,
if carefully clipped, but is chiefly usefully as a stock for grafting on. It has no odour.

6 The China ever-blowing rose, R damascena of Roxburgh, Adnee gula, gulsurkh, bearing handsome
dark crimson blossoms during the whole of the year, it is branching and bushy, but rather delicate,
and wants odour.

 7 The Moss Rose, R muscosa, having no native name is found to exist,
but has only been known to have once blossomed in India; good plants may
be obtained from Hobart Town without much trouble.

8 The Indian dog-rose, R arvensis, R involucrata of Roxburgh, Gul bé furman, is found to glow
wild in some parts of Nepal and Bengal, as well as in the province of Buhar, flowering in February,
the blossoms large, white, and very fragrant, its cultivation extending is improving the blossoms,
particularly in causing the petals to be multiplied.

9. The Bramble-flowered rose R multiflora, Gul rana, naturally a trailer, may be trained to
great advantage, when it will give beautiful bunches of small many petaled flowers in February
and March, of delightful fragrance.

10. The Due de Berri rose, a variety of R damascena, but having the petals more rounded and
more regular, it is a low rather drooping shrub with delicately small branches.

Propagation.--All the species may be multiplied by seed, by layers, by cuttings, by suckers,
or from grafts, almost indiscriminately. Layering is the easiest, and most certain mode of
propagating this most beautiful shrub.

The roots that branch, out and throw up distinct shoots may be divided, or cut off from the
main root, and even an eye thus taken off may be made to produce a good plant.

Suckers, when they have pushed through the soil, may be taken up by digging down, and gently
detaching them from the roots.

Grafting or budding is used for the more delicate kinds, especially the sweet briar, and, by
the curious, to produce two or more varieties on one stem, the best stocks being obtained from
the China, or the Dog Rose.

Soil &c.--Any good loamy garden soil without much sand, suits the rose, but to produce it in
perfection the ground can hardly be too rich.

Culture.--Immediately at the close of the rains, the branches of most kinds of roses, especially
the double ones, should be cut down to not more than six inches in length, removing at the
same time, all old and decayed wood, as well as all stools that have branched out from the
main one, and which will form new plants; the knife being at the same time freely exercised
in the removal of sickly and crowded fibres from the roots; these should likewise be laid open,
cleaned and pinned, and allowed to remain exposed until blossom buds begin to appear at the
end of the first shoots; the hole must then be filled with good strong stable manure, and slightly
earthed over. About a month after, a basket of stable dung, with the litter, should be heaped
up round the stems, and broken brick or turf placed over it to relieve the unsightly appearance.

While flowering, too, it will be well to water with liquid manure at least once a week. If
it be desired to continue the trees in blossom, each shoot should be removed as soon as it
has ceased flowering. To secure full large blossoms, all the buds from a shoot should be cut
off, when quite young, except one.

The Sweet briar rose strikes its root low, and prefers shade, the best soil being a deep rich
loam with very little sand, rather strong than otherwise; it will be well to place a heap of
manure round the stem, above ground, covering over with turf, but it is not requisite to open
the roots, or give them so much manure as for other varieties. The sweet briar must not be
much pruned, overgrowth being checked rather by pinching the young shoots, or it will not blossom,
and it is rather slower in throwing out shoots than other roses. In this country the best mode
of multiplying this shrub is by grafting on a China rose stock, as layers do not strike freely,
and cuttings cannot be made to root at all.

The Bramble-flowered rose is a climber, and though not needing so strong a soil as other kinds,
requires it to be rich, and frequently renewed, by taking away the soil from about the roots
and supplying its place with a good compost of loam, leaf mould, and well rotted dung, pruning
the root. The plants require shelter from the cold wind from the North, or West, this, however,
if carefully trained, they will form for themselves, but until they do so, it is impossible
to make them blossom freely, the higher branches should be allowed to droop, and if growing
luxuriantly, with the shoots not shortened, they will the following season, produce bunches
of flowers at the end of every one, and have a very beautiful effect, no pruning should be
given, except what is just enough to keep the plants within bounds, as they invariably suffer
from the use of the knife. This rose is easily propagated by cuttings or layers, both of which
root readily.

The China rose thrives almost anywhere, but is best in a soil of loam and peat, a moderate
supply of water being given daily during the hot weather. They will require frequent thinning
out of the branches, and are propagated by cuttings, which strike freely.[139]

As before mentioned, Rose trees look well in a parterre by themselves, but a few may be dispersed
along the borders of the garden.

Insects, &c. The green, and the black plant louse are great enemies to the rose tree, and,
whenever they appear, it is advisable to cut out at once the shoot attacked, the green caterpillar
too, often makes skeletons of the leaves in a short time, the ladybird, as it is commonly called,
is an useful insect, and worthy of encouragement, as it is a destroyer of the plant louse.

       *       *       *       *       *

CREEPERS AND CLIMBERS

The CLIMBING, and TWINING SHRUBS offer a numerous family, highly deserving of cultivation,
the following being a few of the most desirable.

The HONEY-SUCKLE, Caprifolium, having no native name, is too well known, and too closely connected
with the home associations of all to need particularizing. It is remarkable that they always
twine from east to west, and rather die than submit to a change.

The TRUMPET FLOWER, Bignonia, are an eminently handsome family, chiefly considered stove plants
in Europe, but here growing freely in the open ground, and flowering in loose spikes.

The MOUNTAIN EBONY, Bauhinia, the distinguishing mark of the class being its two lobed leaves,
most of them are indigenous, and in their native woods attain an immense size, far beyond what
botanists in Europe appear to give them credit for.

The VIRGIN'S BOWER, Clematis, finds some indigenous representatives in this country, although
unnamed in the native language; the odour however is rather too powerful, and of some kinds
even offensive, except immediately after a shower of rain. They are all climbers, requiring
the same treatment as the honey suckle.

The PASSION FLOWER, Passiflora, is a very large family of twining shrubs, many of them really
beautiful, and generally of easy cultivation, this country being of the same temperature with
their indigenous localities.

The RACEMOSE ASPARAGUS, A. racemosus, Sadabooree, sutmoolee, is a native of India, and by nature
a trailing plant, but better cultivated as a climber on a trellis, in which way its delicate
setaceous foliage makes it at all times ornamental, and at the close of the rains it sends
forth abundant bunches of long erect spires of greenish white color, and of delicious fragrance,
shedding perfume all around to a great distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

KALENDAR WORK TO BE PERFORMED.

JANUARY.

Thin out seeding annuals wherever they appear too thick. Water freely, especially such plants
as are in bloom, and keep all clean from weeds. Cut off the footstalks of flowers, except such
as are reserved for seed, as soon as the petals fade. Collect the seeds of early annuals as
they ripen.

FEBRUARY.

Continue as directed in last month. Prepare stocks for roses to be grafted on, R. bengalensis,
and R. canina are the best. Great care must be paid to thinning out the buds of roses to insure
perfect blossoms, as well as to rubbing off the succulent upright shoots and suckers that are
apt to spring up at this period. Collect seeds as they ripen, to be dried, or hardened in the
shade.

Collect seeds as they ripen, drying them carefully, for a few days in the pods, and subsequently
when freed from them in the shade, to put them in the sun being highly injurious. Give a plentiful
supply of water in saucers to Narcissus, or other bulbs when flowering.

MARCH.

Cut down the flower stalks of Narcissus that have ceased flowering, and lessen the supply of
water. Take up the tubers of Dahlias, and dry gradually in an open place in the shade, but
do not remove the offsets for some days. Pot any of the species of Geranium that have been
put out after the rains, provided they are not in bloom. Give water freely to the roots of
all flowers that are in blossom. Mignionette that is in blossom should have the seed pods clipped
off with a pair of scissors every day to continue it. Convolvulus in flower should be shaded
early in the morning, or it will quickly fade. The Evening Primrose should be freely watered
to increase the number of blossoms. Look to the Carnations that are coming into bloom, give
support to the flower stem, cutting off all side shoots and buds, except the one intended to
give a handsome flower.

APRIL.

Careful watering, avoiding any wetting of the leaves is necessary at this period, and the saucers
of all bulbs not yet flowered should be kept constantly full, to promote blossoming--the saucers
should however be kept clean, and washed out every third day at least. Frequent weeding must
be attended to, with occasional watering all grass plots, or paths. Wherever any part of the
garden becomes empty by the clearing off of annuals, it should be well dug to a depth of at
least eighteen inches, and after laying exposed in clods for a week or two, manured with tank
or road mud; leaf mould, or other good well rotted manure.

MAY.

This is the time to make layers of Honeysuckle, Bauhinia, and other climbing and twining shrubs.

Mignionette must be very carefully treated, kept moist, and every seed-pod clipped off as soon
as the flower fades, or it will not be preserved. Continue to dig, and manure the borders,
not leaving the manure exposed, or it will lose power. Make pipings and layers of Carnations.

JUNE.

Thin out the multitudinous buds of the Madras rose, also examine the buds of the Persian rose,
to prevent the bursting of the calyx by tying with thread, or with a piece of parchment, or
cardboard as directed for Carnations.

Watch Carnations to prevent the bursting of the calyx, and to remove superfluous buds. Re pot
Geraniums that are in sheds, or verandahs, so soon as they have done flowering, also take up,
and pot any that may yet remain in the borders. Prune off also all superfluous, or straggling
branches. Continue digging over and manuring the flowering borders. Sow Zinnias, also make
cuttings of perennials and biennials that are propagated by that means, and put in seeds of
biennials under shelter, as well as a few of the early annuals, particularly Stock and Sweet-pea.

JULY.

Make cuttings and layers of hardy shrubs, and of the Fragrant Olive; put in cuttings of the
Willow, and some other trees. Plant out Pines, and Casuarina, Cypress, Large-leaved fig, and
the Laurel tribe. Transplant young shrubs of a hardy nature.

Divide the roots, and plant out suckers, or offsets of perennial border plants. Make cuttings
and sow seeds of biennials, as required; also a few annuals to be hereafter transplanted. Sow
also Geraniums. Continue making pipings of Carnation, plant out, or transplant hardy perennials
into the borders.

AUGUST.

This may be considered the best time for sowing the seeds of hardy shrubs. Plant out Aralia,
Canella, Magnolia, and other ornamental trees. Transplant delicate and exotic shrubs. Remove,
and plant out suckers, and layers of hardy shrubs. Prune all shrubs freely.

Divide, and plant out suckers, and offsets of hardy perennials, that have formed during the
rains. Plant out tender perennial plants, in the borders, also biennials. Prune, and thin out
perennial plants in the borders. Put out in the borders such annuals as were sown in June,
protecting them from the heat of the sun in the afternoon. Sow a few early annuals. Plant out
Dahlia tubers where they are intended to blossom, keeping them as much as possible in classes
of colors. Make pipings of Carnations.

SEPTEMBER.

Prick out the cuttings of hardy shrubs that have been made before, or during the rains, in
beds for growing. Prune all flowering shrubs, having due regard to the character of each, as
bearing flowers on the end of the shoots, or from the side exits, give the annual dressing
of manure to the entire shrubbery, with new upper soil.

Remove the top soil from the borders, and renew with addition of a moderate quantity of manure.
Put out Geraniums into the borders, and set rooted cuttings singly in pots. Plant out biennials
in the borders, also such annuals as have been sown in pots. Re-pot and give fresh earth to
plants in the shed.

OCTOBER.

Open out the roots of a few Bussorah roses for early flowering, pruning down all the branches
to a height of six inches, removing all decayed, and superannuated wood, dividing the roots,
and pruning them freely. The Madras roses should be treated in the same manner, not all at
the same time, but at intervals of a week between each cutting down, so as to secure a succession
for blossoming. Plant out rooted cuttings in beds, to increase in size.

Sow annuals freely, and thin out those put in last month, so as to leave sufficient space for
growing, at the same time transplanting the most healthy to other parts of the border.

NOVEMBER.

Continue opening the roots of Bussorah roses, as well as the Rose Edward, and Madras roses,
for succession to those on which this operation was performed last month. Prune, and trim the
Sweetbriar, and Many-flowered rose.

Flower-Garden--Divide, and plant bulbs of all kinds, both, for border, and pot flowering. Continue
to sow annuals.

DECEMBER

Continue opening the roots, and cutting down the branches of Bussorah, and other roses for
late flowering. Prune, and thin out also the China and Persian roses, as well as the Many-flowered
rose, if not done last month. Train carefully all climbing and twining shrubs.

Weed beds of annuals, and thin out, where necessary. Sow Nepolitan, and other fine descriptions
of Larkspur, as well as all other annuals for a late show. Dahlias are now blooming in perfection,
and should be closely watched that every side-bud, or more than one on each stalk may be cut
off close, with a pair of scissors to secure full, distinctly colored, and handsome flowers.

[For further instructions respecting the culture of flowers in India I must refer my readers
to the late Mr. Speede's works, where they will find a great deal of useful information not
only respecting the flower-garden, but the kitchen-garden and the orchard.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS.

THE TREE-MIGNONETTE.--This plant does not appear to be a distinct variety, for the common mignonette,
properly trained becomes shrubby. It may be propagated by either seed or cuttings. When it
has put forth four leaves or is about an inch high, take it from the bed and put it by itself
into a moderate sized pot. As it advances in growth, carefully pick off all the side shoots,
leaving the leaf at the base of each shoot to assist the growth of the plant. When it has reached
a foot in height it will show flower. But every flower must be nipped off carefully. Support
the stem with a stick to make it grow straight. Even when it has attained its proper height
of two feet again cut off the bloom for a few days.

It is said that Miss Mitford, the admired authoress, was the first to discover that the common
mignonette could be induced to adopt tree-like habits. The experiment has been tried in India,
but it has sometimes failed from its being made at the wrong season. The seed should be sown
at the end of the rains.

GRAFTING.--Take care to unite exactly the inner bark of the scion with the inner bark of the
stock in order to facilitate the free course of the sap. Almost any scion will take to almost
any sort of tree or plant provided there be a resemblance in their barks. The Chinese are fond
of making fantastic experiments in grafting and sometimes succeed in the most heterogeneous
combinations, such as grafting flowers upon fruit trees. Plants growing near each other can
sometimes be grafted by the roots, or on the living root of a tree cut down another tree can
be grafted. The scions are those shoots which united with the stock form the graft. It is desirable
that the sap of the stock should be in brisk and healthy motion at the time of grafting. The
graft should be surrounded with good stiff clay with a little horse or cow manure in it and
a portion of cut hay. Mix the materials with a little water and then beat them up with a stick
until the compound is quite ductile. When applied it may be bandaged with a cloth. The best
season for grafting in India is the rains.

MANURE.--Almost any thing that rots quickly is a good manure. It is possible to manure too
highly. A plant sometimes dies from too much richness of soil as well as from too barren a one.

WATERING.--Keep up a regular moisture, but do not deluge your plants until the roots rot. Avoid
giving very cold water in the heat of the day or in the sunshine. Even in England some gardeners
in a hot summer use luke-warm water for delicate plants. But do not in your fear of overwatering
only wet the surface. The earth all round and below the root should be equally moist, and not
one part wet and the other dry. If the plant requires but little water, water it seldom, but
let the water reach all parts of the root equally when you water at all.

GATHERING AND PRESERVING FLOWERS.--Always use the knife, and prefer such as are coming into
flower rather than such as are fully expanded. If possible gather from crowded plants, or parts
of plants, so that every gathering may operate at the same time as a judicious pruning and
thinning. Flowers may be preserved when gathered, by inserting their ends in winter, in moist
earth, or moss; and may be freshened, when withered, by sprinkling them with water, and putting
them in a close vessel, as under a bellglass, handglass, flowerpot or in a botanic box; if
this will not do, sprinkle them with warm water heated to 80° or 90°, and cover them with a
glass.--Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening.

PIPING---is a mode of propagation by cuttings and is adopted in plants having joined tubular
stems, as the dianthus tribe. When the shoot has nearly done growing (soon after its blossom
has fallen) its extremity is to be separated at a part of the stem where it is hard and ripe.
This is done by holding the root with one hand and with the other pulling the top part above
the pair of leaves so as to separate it from the root part of the stem at the socket, formed
by the axillae of the leaves, leaving the stem to remain with a tubular or pipe-looking termination.
The piping is inserted in finely sifted earth to the depth of the first joint or pipe and its
future management regulated on the same general principles as cuttings.--From the same.

BUDDING.--This is performed when the leaves of plants have grown to their full size and the
bud is to be seen at the base of it. The relative nature of the bud and the stock is the same
as in grafting. Make a slit in the bark of the stock, to reach from half an inch to an inch
and a half down the stock, according to the size of the plant; then make another short slit
across, that you may easily raise the bark from the wood, then take a very thin slice of the
bark from the tree or plant to be budded, a little below a leaf, and bring the knife out a
little above it, so that you remove the leaf and the bud at its base, with the little slice
you have taken. You will perhaps have removed a small bit of the wood with the bark, which
you must take carefully out with the sharp point of your knife and your thumb; then tuck the
bark and bud under the bark of the stock which you carefully bind over, letting the bud come
at the part where the slits cross each other. No part of the stock should be allowed to grow
after it is budded, except a little shoot or so, above the bud, just to draw the sap past the
bud.--Gleenny's Hand Book of Gardening.

ON PYRAMIDS OF ROSES.--The standard Roses give a fine effect to a bed of Roses by being planted
in the middle, forming a pyramidal bed, or alone on grass lawns; but the ne plus ultra of a
pyramid of Roses is that formed of from one, two, or three plants, forming a pyramid by being
trained up three strong stakes, to any length from 10 to 25 feet high (as may suit situation
or taste), placed about two feet apart at the bottom; three forming an angle on the ground,
and meeting close together at the top; the plant, or plants to be planted inside the stakes.
In two or three years, they will form a pyramid of Roses which baffles all description. When
gardens are small, and the owners are desirous of having multum in parvo, three or four may
be planted to form one pyramid; and this is not the only object of planting more sorts than
one together, but the beauty is also much increased by the mingled hues of the varieties planted.
For instance, plant together a white Boursault, a purple Noisette, a Stadtholder, Sinensis
(fine pink), and a Moschata scandens and such a variety may be obtained, that twenty pyramids
may have each, three or four kinds, and no two sorts alike on the whole twenty pyramids. A
temple of Roses, planted in the same way, has a beautiful appearance in a flower garden--that
is, eight, ten, or twelve stout peeled Larch poles, well painted, set in the ground, with a
light iron rafter from each, meeting at the top and forming a dome. An old cable, or other
old rope, twisted round the pillar and iron, gives an additional beauty to the whole. Then
plant against the pillars with two or three varieties, each of which will soon run up the pillars,
and form a pretty mass of Roses, which amply repays the trouble and expense, by the elegance
it gives to the garden--Floricultural Cabinet.

How TO MAKE ROSE WATER, &c--Take an earthen pot or jar well glazed inside, wide in the month,
narrow at the bottom, about 15 inches high, and place over the mouth a strainer of clean coarse
muslin, to contain a considerable quantity of rose leaves, of some highly fragrant kind. Cover
them with a second strainer of the same material, and close the mouth of the jar with an iron
lid, or tin cover, hermetically sealed. On this lid place hot embers, either of coal or charcoal,
that the heat may reach the rose-leaves without scorching or burning them.

The aromatic oil will fall drop by drop to the bottom with the water contained in the petals.
When time has been allowed for extracting the whole, the embers must be removed, and the vase
placed in a cool spot.

Rose-water obtained in this mode is not so durable as that obtained in the regular way by a
still but it serves all ordinary purposes. Small alembics of copper with a glass capital, may
be used in three different ways.

In the first process, the still or alembic must be mounted on a small brick furnace, and furnished
with a worm long enough to pass through a pan of cold water. The petals of the rose being carefully
picked so as to leave no extraneous parts, should be thrown into the boiler of the still with
a little water.

The great point is to keep up a moderate fire in the furnace, such as will cause the vapour
to rise without imparting a burnt smell to the rose water.

The operation is ended when the rose water, which falls drop by drop in the tube, ceases to
be fragrant. That which is first condensed has very little scent, that which is next obtained
is the best, and the third and last portion is generally a little burnt in smell, and bitter
in taste. In a very small still, having no worm, the condensation must be produced by linen,
wetted in cold water, applied round the capital. A third method consists in plunging the boiler
of the still into a larger vessel of boiling water placed over a fire, when the rose-water
never acquires the burnt flavour to which we have alluded. By another process, the still is
placed in a boiler filled with sand instead of water, and heated to the necessary temperature.

But this requires alteration, or it is apt to communicate a baked flavour.

SYRUP OF ROSES--May be obtained from Belgian or monthly roses, picked over, one by one, and
the base of the petal removed. In a China Jar prepared with a layer of powdered sugar, place
a layer of rose-leaves about half an inch thick; then of sugar, then of leaves, till the vessel
is full.

On the top, place a fresh wooden cover, pressed down with a weight. By degrees, the rose-leaves
produce a highly-coloured, highly-scented syrup; and the leaves form a colouring-matter for
liqueurs.

PASTILLES DU SERAIL.--Sold in France as Turkish, in rosaries and other ornaments, are made
of the petals of the Belgian or Puteem Rose, ground to powder and formed into a paste by means
of liquid gum.

Ivory-black is mixed with the gum to produce a black colour; and cinnabar or vermilion, to
render the paste either brown or red.

It may be modelled by hand or in a mould, and when dried in the sun, or a moderate oven, attains
sufficient hardness to be mounted in gold or silver.--Mrs. Gore's Rose Fancier's Manual.

OF FORMING AND PRESERVING HERBARIUMS.--The most exact descriptions, accompanied with the most
perfect figures, leave still something to be desired by him who wishes to know completely a
natural being. This nothing can supply but the autopsy or view of the object itself. Hence
the advantage of being able to see plants at pleasure, by forming dried collections of them,
in what are called herbariums.

A good practical botanist, Sir J.E. Smith observes, must be educated among the wild scenes
of nature, while a finished theoretical one requires the additional assistance of gardens and
books, to which must be superadded the frequent use of a good herbarium. When plants are well
dried, the original forms and positions of even their minutest parts, though not their colours,
may at any time be restored by immersion in hot water. By this means the productions of the
most distant and various countries, such as no garden could possibly supply, are brought together
at once under our eyes, at any season of the year. If these be assisted with drawings and descriptions,
nothing less than an actual survey of the whole vegetable world in a state of nature, could
excel such a store of information.

With regard to the mode or state in which plants are preserved, desiccation, accompanied by
pressing, is the most generally used. Some persons, Sir J.E. Smith observes, recommend the
preservation of specimens in weak spirits of wine, and this mode is by far the most eligible
for such as are very juicy: but it totally destroys their colours, and often renders their
parts less fit for examination than by the process of drying. It is, besides, incommodious
for frequent study, and a very expensive and bulky way of making an herbarium.

The greater part of plants dry with facility between the leaves of books, or other paper, the
smoother the better. If there be plenty of paper, they often dry best without shifting; but
if the specimens are crowded, they must be taken out frequently, and the paper dried before
they are replaced. The great point to be attended to is, that the process should meet with
no check. Several vegetables are so tenacious of their vital principle, that they will grow
between papers; the consequence of which is, a destruction of their proper habit and colors.
It is necessary to destroy the life of such, either by immersion in boiling water or by the
application of a hot iron, such as is used for linen, after which they are easily dried. The
practice of applying such an iron, as some persons do, with great labor and perseverance, till
the plants are quite dry, and all their parts incorporated into a smooth flat mass is not approved
of. This renders them unfit for subsequent examination, and destroys their natural habit, the
most important thing to be preserved. Even in spreading plants between papers, we should refrain
from that practice and artificial disposition of their branches, leaves, and other parts, which
takes away from their natural aspect, except for the purpose of displaying the internal parts
of some one or two of their flowers, for ready observation. The most approved method of pressing
is by a box or frame, with a bottom of cloth or leather, like a square sieve. In this, coarse
sand or small shot may be placed; in any quantity very little pressing is required in drying
specimens; what is found necessary should be applied equally to every part of the bundle under
the operation.

Hot-pressing, by means of steel net-work heated, and placed in alternate layers with the papers,
in the manner of hot pressing paper, and the whole covered with the equalizing press, above
described, would probably be an improvement, but we have not heard of its being tried. At all
events, pressing by screw presses, or weighty non-elastic bodies, must be avoided, as tending
to bruise the stalks and other protuberant parts of plants.

"After all we can do," Sir J.E. Smith observes, "plants dry very variously. The blue colours
of their flowers generally fade, nor are reds always permanent. Yellows are much more so, but
very few white flowers retain their natural aspect. The snowdrop and parnassia, if well dried,
continue white. Some greens are much more permanent than others; for there are some natural
families whose leaves, as well as flowers, turn almost black by drying, as melampyrum, bartsia,
and their allies, several willows, and most of the orchideae. The heaths and firs in general
cast off their leaves between papers, which appears to be an effort of the living principle,
for it is prevented by immersion of the fresh specimen in boiling water."

The specimens being dried, are sometimes kept loose between leaves of paper; at other times
wholly gummed or glued to paper, but most generally attached by one or more transverse slips
of paper, glued on one end and pinned at the other, so that such specimens can readily be taken
out, examined, and replaced. On account of the aptitude of the leaves and other parts of dried
plants to drop off, many glue them entirely, and such seems to be the method adopted by Linnaeus,
and recommended by Sir J.E. Smith. "Dried specimens," the professor observes, "are best preserved
by being fastened, with weak carpenter's glue, to paper, so that they may be turned over without
damage. Thick and heavy stalks require the additional support of a few transverse strips of
paper, to bind them more firmly down. A half sheet, of a convenient folio size, should be allotted
to each species, and all the species of a genus may be placed in one or more whole sheets or
folios. On the latter outside should be written the name of the genus, while the name of every
species, with its place of growth, time of gathering, the finder's name, or any other concise
piece of information, may be inscribed on its appropriate paper. This is the plan of the Linnaean
herbarium."--Loudon.

THE END.

FOOTNOTES.

[001] Some of the finest Florists flowers have been reared by the mechanics of Norwich and
Manchester and by the Spitalfield's weavers. The pitmen in the counties of Durham and Northumberland
reside in long rows of small houses, to each of which is attached a little garden, which they
cultivate with such care and success, that they frequently bear away the prize at Floral Exhibitions.

[002] Of Rail-Road travelling the reality is quite different from the idea that descriptions
of it had left upon my mind. Unpoetical as this sort of transit may seem to some minds, I confess
I find it excite and satisfy the imagination. The wondrous speed--the quick change of scene--the
perfect comfort--the life-like character of the power in motion, the invisible, and mysterious,
and mighty steam horse, urged, and guided, and checked by the hand of Science--the cautionary,
long, shrill whistle--the beautiful grey vapor, the breath of the unseen animal, floating over
the fields by which we pass, sometimes hanging stationary for a moment in the air, and then
melting away like a vision--furnish sufficiently congenial amusement for a period-minded observer.

[003] "That which peculiarly distinguishes the gardens of England," says Repton, "is the beauty
of English verdure: the grass of the mown lawn, uniting with, the grass of the adjoining pastures,
and presenting that permanent verdure which is the natural consequence of our soft and humid
clime, but unknown to the cold region of the North or the parching temperature of the South.
This it is impossible to enjoy in Portugal where it would be as practicable to cover the general
surface with the snow of Lapland as with the verdure of England." It is much the same in France.
"There is everywhere in France," says Loudon, "a want of close green turf, of ever-green bushes
and of good adhesive gravel." Some French admirers of English gardens do their best to imitate
our lawns, and it is said that they sometimes partially succeed with English grass seed, rich
manure, and constant irrigation. In Bengal there is a very beautiful species of grass called
Doob grass, (Panicum Dactylon,) but it only flourishes on wide and exposed plains with few
trees on them, and on the sides of public roads, Shakespeare makes Falstaff say that "the camomile
the more it is trodden on the faster it grows" and, this is the case with the Doob grass. The
attempt to produce a permanent Doob grass lawn is quite idle unless the ground is extensive
and open, and much trodden by men or sheep. A friend of mine tells me that he covered a large
lawn of the coarse Ooloo grass (Saccharum cylindricum) with mats, which soon killed it, and
on removing the mats, the finest Doob grass sprang up in its place. But the Ooloo grass soon
again over-grew the Doob.

[004] I allude here chiefly to the ryots of wealthy Zemindars and to other poor Hindu people
in the service of their own countrymen. All the subjects of the British Crown, even in India,
are politically free, but individually the poorer Hindus, (especially those who reside at a
distance from large towns,) are unconscious of their rights, and even the wealthier classes
have rarely indeed that proud and noble feeling of personal independence which characterizes
people of all classes and conditions in England. The feeling with which even a Hindu of wealth
and rank approaches a man in power is very different indeed from that of the poorest Englishman
under similar circumstances. But national education will soon communicate to the natives of
India a larger measure of true self-respect. It will not be long, I hope, before the Hindus
will understand our favorite maxim of English law, that "Every man's house is his castle,"--a
maxim so finely amplified by Lord Chatham: "The poorest man may in his cottage bid defiance
to all the forces of the Crown. It may be frail--its roof may shake--the wind may blow through
it--the storm may enter--but the king of England cannot enter!--all his force dares not cross
the threshold of the ruined tenement."

[005] Literary Recreations.

[006] I have in some moods preferred the paintings of our own Gainsborough even to those of
Claude--and for this single reason, that the former gives a peculiar and more touching interest
to his landscapes by the introduction of sweet groups of children. These lovely little figures
are moreover so thoroughly English, and have such an out-of-doors air, and seem so much a part
of external nature, that an Englishman who is a lover of rural scenery and a patriot, can hardly
fail to be enchanted with the style of his celebrated countryman.--Literary Recreations.

[008] Crisped knots are figures curled or twisted, or having waving lines intersecting each
other. They are sometimes planted in box. Children, even in these days, indulge their fancy
in sowing mustard and cress, &c. in 'curious knots,' or in favorite names and sentences. I
have done it myself, "I know not how oft,"--and alas, how long ago! But I still remember with
what anxiety I watered and watched the ground, and with what rapture I at last saw the surface
gradually rising and breaking on the light green heads of the delicate little new-born plants,
all exactly in their proper lines or stations, like a well-drilled Lilliputian battalion.

Shakespeare makes mention of garden knots in his Richard the Second, where he compares an ill
governed state to a neglected garden.

    Why should we, in the compass of a pale,
    Keep law, and form, and due proportion,
    Showing, as in a model, our firm estate?
    When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
    Is full of weeds; her finest flowers choked up,
    Her fruit-trees all unpruned, her hedges ruined,
    Her knots disordered, and her wholesome herbs
    Swarming with caterpillars.

There is an allusion to garden knots in Holinshed's Chronicle. In 1512 the Earl of Northumberland
"had but one gardener who attended hourly in the garden for setting of erbis and chipping of
knottis and sweeping the said garden clean."

[009] Ovid, in his story of Pyramus and Thisbe, tells us that the black Mulberry was originally
white. The two lovers killed themselves under a white Mulberry tree and the blood penetrating
to the roots of the tree mixed with the sap and gave its color to the fruit.

[010] Revived Adonis,--for, according to tradition he died every year and revived again. Alcinous,
host of old Laertes' son,--that is, of Ulysses, whom he entertained on his return from Troy.
Or that, not mystic--not fabulous as the rest, but a real garden which Solomon made for his
wife, the daughter of Pharoah, king of Egypt--WARBURTON

"Divested of harmonious Greek and bewitching poetry," observes Horace Walpole, "the garden
of Alcinous was a small orchard and vineyard with some beds of herbs and two fountains that
watered them, inclosed within a quickset hedge." Lord Kames, says, still more boldly, that
it was nothing but a kitchen garden. Certainly, gardening amongst the ancient Greeks, was a
very simple business. It is only within the present century that it has been any where elevated
into a fine art.

[011] "We are unwilling to diminish or lose the credit of Paradise, or only pass it over with
[the Hebrew word for] Eden, though the Greek be of a later name. In this excepted, we know
not whether the ancient gardens do equal those of late times, or those at present in Europe.
Of the gardens of Hesperides, we know nothing singular, but some golden apples. Of Alcinous
his garden, we read nothing beyond figs, apples, olives; if we allow it to be any more than
a fiction of Homer, unhappily placed in Corfu, where the sterility of the soil makes men believe
there was no such thing at all. The gardens of Adonis were so empty that they afforded proverbial
expression, and the principal part thereof was empty spaces, with herbs and flowers in pots.
I think we little understand the pensile gardens of Semiramis, which made one of the wonders
of it [Babylon], wherein probably the structure exceeded the plants contained in them. The
excellency thereof was probably in the trees, and if the descension of the roots be equal to
the height of trees, it was not [absurd] of Strebæus to think the pillars were hollow that
the roots might shoot into them."--Sir Thomas Browne.--Bohn's Edition of Sir Thomas Browne's
Works, vol. 2, page 498.

[012] The house and garden before Pope died were large enough for their owner. He was more
than satisfied with them. "As Pope advanced in years," says Roscoe, "his love of gardening,
and his attention to the various occupations to which it leads, seem to have increased also.
This predilection was not confined to the ornamental part of this delightful pursuit, in which
he has given undoubted proofs of his proficiency, but extended to the useful as well as the
agreeable, as appears from several passages in his poems; but he has entered more particularly
into this subject in a letter to Swift (March 25, 1736); "I wish you had any motive to see
this kingdom. I could keep you: for I am rich, that is, have more than I want, I can afford
room to yourself and two servants. I have indeed room enough; nothing but myself at home. The
kind and hearty housewife is dead! The agreeable and instructive neighbour is gone! Yet my
house is enlarged, and the gardens extend and flourish, as knowing nothing of the guests they
have lost. I have more fruit trees and kitchen garden than you have any thought of; and, I
have good melons and apples of my own growth. I am as much a better gardener, as I am a worse
poet, than when you saw me; but gardening is near akin to philosophy, for Tully says, Agricultura
proxima sapientiae. For God's sake, why should not you, (that are a step higher than a philosopher,
a divine, yet have too much grace and wit than to be a bishop) even give all you have to the
poor of Ireland (for whom you have already done every thing else,) so quit the place, and live
and die with me? And let tales anima concordes be our motto and our epitaph."

[013] The leaves of the willow, though green above, are hoar below. Shakespeare's knowledge
of the fact is alluded to by Hazlitt as one of the numberless evidences of the poet's minute
observation of external nature.

[014] See Mr. Loudon's most interesting and valuable work entitled Arboretum et Fruticetum
Britanicum.

[015] All the rules of gardening are reducible to three heads: the contrasts, the management
of surprises and the concealment of the bounds. "Pray, what is it you mean by the contrasts?"
"The disposition of the lights and shades."--"'Tis the colouring then?"--"Just that."--"Should
not variety be one of the rules?"--"Certainly, one of the chief; but that is included mostly
in the contrasts." I have expressed them all in two verses[140] (after my manner, in very little
compass), which are in imitation of Horace's--Omne tulit punctum. Pope.--Spence's Anecdotes.

[016] In laying out a garden, the chief thing to be considered is the genius of the place.
Thus at Tiskins, for example, Lord Bathurst should have raised two or three mounts, because
his situation is all plain, and nothing can please without variety. Pope--Spence's Anecdotes.

[017] The seat and gardens of the Lord Viscount Cobham, in Buckinghamshire. Pope concludes
the first Epistle of his Moral Essays with a compliment to the patriotism of this nobleman.

    And you, brave Cobham! to the latest breath
    Shall feel your ruling passion strong in death:
    Such in those moments as in all the past
    "Oh, save my country, Heaven!" shall be your last.

[018] Two hundred acres and two hundred millions of francs were made over to Le Notre by Louis
XIV. to complete these geometrical gardens. One author tells us that in 1816 the ordinary cost
of putting a certain portion of the waterworks in play was at the rate of 200 £. per hour,
and another still later authority states that when the whole were set in motion once a year
on some Royal fête, the cost of the half hour during which the main part of the exhibition
lasted was not less than 3,000 £. This is surely a most senseless expenditure. It seems, indeed,
almost incredible. I take the statements from Loudon's excellent Encyclopaedia of Gardening.
The name of one of the original reporters is Neill; the name of the other is not given. The
gardens formerly were and perhaps still are full of the vilest specimens of verdant sculpture
in every variety of form. Lord Kames gives a ludicrous account of the vomiting stone statues
there;--"A lifeless statue of an animal pouring out water may be endured" he observes, "without
much disgust: but here the lions and wolves are put in violent action; each has seized its
prey, a deer or a lamb, in act to devour; and yet, as by hocus-pocus, the whole is converted
into a different scene: the lion, forgetting his prey, pours out water plentifully; and the
deer, forgetting its danger, performs the same work: a representation no less absurd than that
in the opera, where Alexander the Great, after mounting the wall of a town besieged, turns
his back to the enemy, and entertains his army with a song."

[019] Broome though a writer of no great genius (if any), had yet the honor to be associated
with Pope in the translation of the Odyssey. He translated the 2nd, 6th, 8th, 11th, 16th, 18th,
and 23rd books. Henley (Orator Henley) sneered at Pope, in the following couplet, for receiving
so much assistance:

    Pope came clean off with Homer, but they say,
    Broome went before, and kindly swept the way.

Fenton was another of Pope's auxiliaries. He translated the 1st, 4th, 19th and 20th books (of
the Odyssey). Pope himself translated the rest.

[020] Stowe

[021] The late Humphrey Repton, one of the best landscape-gardeners that England has produced,
and who was for many years employed on alterations and improvements in the house and grounds
at Cobham, in Kent, the seat of the Earl of Darnley, seemed to think that Stowe ought not to
monopolize applause and admiration, "Whether," he said, "we consider its extent, its magnificence
or its comfort, there are few places that can vie with Cobham." Repton died in 1817, and his
patron and friend the Earl of Darnley put up at Cobham an inscription to his memory.

The park at Cobham extends over an area of no less than 1,800 acres, diversified with thick
groves and finely scattered single trees and gentle slopes and broad smooth lawns. Some of
the trees are singularly beautiful and of great age and size. A chestnut tree, named the Four
Sisters, is five and twenty feet in girth. The mansion, of which, the central part was built
by Inigo Jones, is a very noble one. George the Fourth pronounced the music room the finest
room in England. The walls are of polished white marble with pilasters of sienna marble. The
picture gallery is enriched with valuable specimens of the genius of Titian and Guido and Salvator
Rosa and Sir Joshua Reynolds. There is another famous estate in Kent, Knole, the seat of

    Dorset, the grace of courts, the Muse's pride.

The Earl of Dorset, though but a poetaster himself, knew how to appreciate the higher genius
of others. He loved to be surrounded by the finest spirits of his time. There is a pleasant
anecdote of the company at his table agreeing to see which amongst them could produce the best
impromptu. Dryden was appointed arbitrator. Dorset handed a slip of paper to Dryden, and when
all the attempts were collected, Dryden decided without hesitation that Dorset's was the best.
It ran thus: "I promise to pay Mr. John Dryden, on demand, the sum of £500. Dorset."

[022] This is generally put into the mouth of Pope, but if we are to believe Spence, who is
the only authority for the anecdote, it was addressed to himself.

[023] It has been said that in laying out the grounds at Hagley, Lord Lyttelton received some
valuable hints from the author of The Seasons, who was for some time his Lordship's guest.
The poet has commemorated the beauties of Hagley Park in a description that is familiar to
all lovers of English poetry. I must make room for a few of the concluding lines.

    Meantime you gain the height, from whose fair brow,
    The bursting prospect spreads immense around:
    And snatched o'er hill, and dale, and wood, and lawn,
    And verdant field, and darkening heath between,
    And villages embosomed soft in trees,
    And spiry towns by surging columns marked,
    Of household smoke, your eye excursive roams;
    Wide stretching from the hall, in whose kind haunt
    The hospitable genius lingers still,
    To where the broken landscape, by degrees,
    Ascending, roughens into rigid hills;
    O'er which the Cambrian mountains, like far clouds,
    That skirt the blue horizon, dusky rise.

It certainly does not look as if there had been any want of kindly feeling towards Shenstone
on the part of Lyttelton when we find the following inscription in Hagley Park.

      To the memory of
    William Shenstone, Esquire,
      In whose verse
    Were all the natural graces.
      And in whose manners
    Was all the amiable simplicity
      Of pastoral poetry,
    With the sweet tenderness
      Of the elegiac.

There is also at Hagley a complimentary inscription on an urn to Alexander Pope; and, on an
octagonal building called Thomson's Seat, there is an inscription to the author of The Seasons.
Hagley is kept up with great care and is still in possession of the descendants of the founder.
But a late visitor (Mr. George Dodd) expresses a doubt whether the Leasowes, even in its comparative
decay, is not a finer bit of landscape, a more delightful place to lose one-self in, than even
its larger and better preserved neighbour.

[024] Coleridge is reported to have said--"There is in Crabbe an absolute defect of high imagination;
he gives me little pleasure. Yet no doubt he has much power of a certain kind, and it is good
to cultivate, even at some pains, a catholic taste in literature." Walter Savage Landor, in
his "Imaginary Conversations," makes Porson say--"Crabbe wrote with a two-penny nail and scratched
rough truths and rogues' facts on mud walls." Horace Smith represents Crabbe, as "Pope in worsted
stockings." That there is merit of some sort or other, and that of no ordinary kind, in Crabbe's
poems, is what no one will deny. They relieved the languor of the last days of two great men,
of very different characters--Sir Walter Scott and Charles James Fox.

[025] The poet had a cottage and garden in Kew-foot-Lane at or near Richmond. In the alcove
in the garden is a small table made of the wood of the walnut tree. There is a drawer to the
table which in all probability often received charge of the poet's effusions hot from the brain.
On a brass tablet inserted in the top of the table is this inscription--"This table was the
property of James Thomson, and always stood in this seat."

[026] Shene or Sheen: the old name of Richmond, signifying in Saxon shining or splendour.

[027] Highgate and Hamstead.

[028] In his last sickness

[029] On looking back at page 36 I find that I have said in the foot note that it is only within
the present century that gardening has been elevated into a fine art. I did not mean within
the 55 years of this 19th century, but within a hundred years. Even this, however, was an inadvertency.
We may go a little further back. Kent and Pope lived to see Landscape-Gardening considered
a fine art. Before their time there were many good practical gardeners, but the poetry of the
art was not then much regarded except by a very few individuals of more than ordinary refinement.

[030] Catherine the Second grossly disgraced herself as a woman--partly driven into misconduct
herself by the behaviour of her husband--but as a sovereign it cannot be denied that she exhibited
a penetrating sagacity and great munificence; and perhaps the lovers of literature and science
should treat her memory with a little consideration. When Diderot was in distress and advertized
his library for sale, the Empress sent him an order on a banker at Paris for the amount demanded,
namely fifteen thousand livres, on condition that the library was to be left as a deposit with
the owner, and that he was to accept a gratuity of one thousand livres annually for taking
charge of the books, until the Empress should require them. This was indeed a delicate and
ingenious kindness. Lord Brougham makes D'Alembert and not Diderot the subject of this anecdote.
It is a mistake. See the Correspondence of Baron de Gumm and Diderot with the Duke of Saxe-Gotha.

Many of the Russian nobles keep up to this day the taste in gardening introduced by Catherine
the Second, and have still many gardens laid out in the English style. They have often had
in their employ both English and Scottish gardeners. There is an anecdote of a Scotch gardener
in the Crimea in one of the public journals:--

"Our readers"--says the Banffshire Journal--"will recollect that when the Allies made a brief
expedition to Yalto, in the south of the Crimea, they were somewhat surprised and gratified
by the sight of some splendid gardens around a seat of Prince Woronzow. Little did our countrymen
think that these gardens were the work of a Scotchman, and a Moray loon; yet such was the case."
The history of the personage in question is a somewhat singular one: "Jamie Sinclair, the garden
boy, had a natural genius, and played the violin. Lady Cumming had this boy educated by the
family tutor, and sent him to London, where he was well known in 1836-7-8, for his skill in
drawing and colouring. Mr. Knight, of the Exotic Nursery, for whom he used to draw orchids
and new plants, sent him to the Crimea, to Prince Woronzow, where he practised for thirteen
years. He had laid out these beautiful gardens which the allies the other day so much admired;
had the care of 10,000 acres of vineyards belonging to the prince; was well known to the Czar,
who often consulted him about improvements, and gave him a "medal of merit" and a diploma or
passport, by which he was free to pass from one end of the empire to the other, and also through
Austria and Prussia, I have seen these instruments. He returned to London in 1851, and was
just engaged with a London publisher for a three years' job, when Menschikoff found the Turks
too hot for him last April twelve-month; the Russians then made up for blows, and Mr. Sinclair
was more dangerous for them in London than Lord Aberdeen. He was the only foreigner who was
ever allowed to see all that was done in and out of Sebastopol, and over all the Crimea. The
Czar, however, took care that Sinclair could not join the allies; but where he is and what
he is about I must not tell, until the war is over--except that he is not in Russia, and that
he will never play first fiddle again in Morayshire."

[031] Brown succeeded to the popularity of Kent. He was nicknamed, Capability Brown, because
when he had to examine grounds previous to proposed alterations and improvements he talked
much of their capabilities. One of the works which are said to do his memory most honor, is
the Park of Nuneham, the seat of Lord Harcourt. The grounds extend to 1,200 acres. Horace Walpole
said that they contained scenes worthy of the bold pencil of Rubens, and subjects for the tranquil
sunshine of Claude de Lorraine. The following inscription is placed over the entrance to the
gardens.

                Here universal Pan,
    Knit with the Graces and the Hours in dance,
    Leads on the eternal Spring.

It is said that the gardens at Nuneham were laid out by Mason, the poet.

[032] Mrs. Stowe visited the Jardin Mabille in the Champs Elysées, a sort of French Vauxhall,
where small jets of gas were so arranged as to imitate "flowers of the softest tints and the
most perfect shape."

[033] Napoleon, it is said, once conceived the plan of roofing with glass the gardens of the
Tuileries, so that they might be used as a winter promenade.

[034] Addison in the 477th number of the Spectator in alluding to Kensington Gardens, observes;
"I think there are as many kinds of gardening as poetry; our makers of parterres and flower
gardens are epigrammatists and sonnetteers in the art; contrivers of bowers and grottos, treillages
and cascades, are romance writers. Wise and London are our heroic poets; and if I may single
out any passage of their works to commend I shall take notice of that part in the upper garden
at Kensington, which was at first nothing but a gravel pit. It must have been a fine genius
for gardening that could have thought of forming such an unsightly hollow unto so beautiful
an area and to have hit the eye with so uncommon and agreeable a scene as that which it is
now wrought into."

[035] Lord Bathurst, says London, informed Daines Barrington, that he (Lord Bathurst) was the
first who deviated from the straight line in sheets of water by following the lines in a valley
in widening a brook at Ryskins, near Colnbrook; and Lord Strafford, thinking that it was done
from poverty or economy asked him to own fairly how little more it would have cost him to have
made it straight. In these days no possessor of a park or garden has the water on his grounds
either straight or square if he can make it resemble the Thames as described by Wordsworth:

    The river wanders at its own sweet will.

Horace Walpole in his lively and pleasant little work on Modern Gardening almost anticipates
this thought. In commending Kent's style of landscape-gardening he observes: "The gentle stream
was taught to serpentize at its pleasure."

[036] This Palm-house, "the glory of the gardens," occupies an area of 362 ft. in length; the
centre is an hundred ft. in width and 66 ft. in height.

It must charm a Native of the East on a visit to our country, to behold such carefully cultured
specimens, in a great glass-case in England, of the trees called by Linnaeus "the Princes of
the vegetable kingdom," and which grow so wildly and in such abundance in every corner of Hindustan.
In this conservatory also are the banana and plantain. The people of England are in these days
acquainted, by touch and sight, with almost all the trees that grow in the several quarters
of the world. Our artists can now take sketches of foreign plants without crossing the seas.
An allusion to the Palm tree recals some criticisms on Shakespeare's botanical knowledge.

"Look here," says Rosalind, "what I found on a palm tree." "A palm tree in the forest of Arden,"
remarks Steevens, "is as much out of place as a lioness in the subsequent scene." Collier tries
to get rid of the difficulty by suggesting that Shakespeare may have written plane tree. "Both
the remark and the suggestion," observes Miss Baker, "might have been spared if those gentlemen
had been aware that in the counties bordering on the Forest of Arden, the name of an exotic
tree is transferred to an indigenous one." The salix caprea, or goat-willow, is popularly known
as the "palm" in Northamptonshire, no doubt from having been used for the decoration of churches
on Palm Sunday--its graceful yellow blossoms, appearing at a time when few other trees have
put forth a leaf, having won for it that distinction. Clare so calls it:--

    "Ye leaning palms, that seem to look
    Pleased o'er your image in the brook."

That Shakespeare included the willow in his forest scenery is certain, from another passage
in the same play:--

    "West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom.
    The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream,
    Left on your right hand brings you to the place."

The customs and amusements of Northamptonshire, which are frequently noticed in these volumes,
were identical with those of the neighbouring county of Warwick, and, in like manner illustrate
very clearly many passages in the great dramatist.--Miss Baker's "Glossary of Northamptonshire
Words." (Quoted by the London Athenaeum.)

[037] Mrs. Hemans once took up her abode for some weeks with Wordsworth at Rydal Mount, and
was so charmed with the country around, that she was induced to take a cottage called Dove's
Nest, which over-looked the lake of Windermere. But tourists and idlers so haunted her retreat
and so worried her for autographs and Album contributions, that she was obliged to make her
escape. Her little cottage and garden in the village of Wavertree, near Liverpool, seem to
have met the fate which has befallen so many of the residences of the poets. "Mrs. Hemans's
little flower-garden" (says a late visitor) "was no more--but rank grass and weeds sprang up
luxuriously; many of the windows were broken; the entrance gate was off its hinges: the vine
in front of the house trailed along the ground, and a board, with 'This house to let' upon
it, was nailed on the door. I entered the deserted garden and looked into the little parlour--once
so full of taste and elegance; it was gloomy and cheerless. The paper was spotted with damp,
and spiders had built their webs in the corner. As I mused on the uncertainty of human life,
I exclaimed with the eloquent Burke,--'What shadows we are, and what shadows we pursue!'"

The beautiful grounds of the late Professor Wilson at Elleray, we are told by Mr. Howitt in
his interesting "Homes and Haunts of the British Poets" have also been sadly changed. "Steam,"
he says, "as little as time, has respected the sanctity of the poet's home, but has drawn its
roaring iron steeds opposite to its gate and has menaced to rush through it and lay waste its
charmed solitude. In plain words, I saw the stages of a projected railway running in an ominous
line across the very lawn and before the windows of Elleray." I believe the whole place has
been purchased by a Railway Company.

[038] In Churton's Rail Book of England, published about three years ago, Pope's Villa is thus
noticed--"Not only was this temple of the Muses--this abode of genius--the resort of the learned
and the wittiest of the land--levelled to the earth, but all that the earth produced to remind
posterity of its illustrious owner, and identify the dead with the living strains he has bequeathed
to us, was plucked up by the roots and scattered to the wind." On the authority of William
Hewitt I have stated on an earlier page that some splendid Spanish chesnut trees and some elms
and cedars planted by Pope at Twickenham were still in existence. But Churton is a later authority.
Howitt's book was published in 1847.

[039] One would have thought &c. See the garden of Armida, as described by Tasso, C. xvi. 9, &c.

    "In lieto aspetto il bel giardin s'aperse &c."

Here was all that variety, which constitutes the nature of beauty: hill and dale, lawns and
crystal rivers, &c.

    "And, that which all faire works doth most aggrace,
    "The art, which all that wrought, appearéd in no place."

Which is literally from Tasso, C, xvi 9.

    "E quel, che'l bello, e'l caro accresce à l'opre,
    "L'arte, che tutto fa, nulla si scopre."

The next stanza is likewise translated from Tasso, C. xvi 10. And, if the reader likes the
comparing of the copy with the original, he may see many other beauties borrowed from the Italian
poet. The fountain, and the two bathing damsels, are taken from Tasso, C. xv, st. 55, &c. which
he calls, Il fonte del riso. UPTON.

[040] Cowper was evidently here thinking rather of Milton than of Homer.

    Flowers of all hue, and without thorns the rose.

Paradise Lost.

Pope translates the passage thus;

    Beds of all various herbs, for ever green,
    In beauteous order terminate the scene.

Homer referred to pot-herbs, not to flowers of all hues. Cowper is generally more faithful
than Pope, but he is less so in this instance. In the above description we have Homer's highest
conception of a princely garden:--in five acres were included an orchard, a vineyard, and some
beds of pot-herbs. Not a single flower is mentioned, by the original author, though his translator
has been pleased to steal some from the garden of Eden and place them on "the verge extreme"
of the four acres. The mansion of Alcinous was of brazen walls with golden columns; and the
Greeks and Romans had houses that were models of architecture when their gardens exhibited
no traces whatever of the hand of taste.

[041]
    And over him, art stryving to compayre
    With nature, did an arber greene dispied

This whole episode is taken from Tasso, C. 16, where Rinaldo is described in dalliance with
Armida. The bower of bliss is her garden

    "Stimi (si misto il culto e col negletto)
    "Sol naturali e gli ornamenti e i siti,
    "Di natura arte par, che per diletto
    "L'imitatrice sua scherzando imiti."

See also Ovid, Met iii. 157

    "Cujus in extremo est antrum nemorale necessu,
    "Arte laboratum nulla, simulaverat artem
    "Ingenio natura fuo nam pumice vivo,
    "Et lenibus tophis nativum duxerat arcum
    "Fons sonat a dextra, tenui perlucidas unda
    "Margine gramineo patulos incinctus hiatus"

UPTON

If this passage may be compared with Tasso's elegant description of Armida's garden, Milton's
pleasant grove may vie with both.[141] He is, however, under obligations to the sylvan scene
of Spenser before us. Mr. J.C. Walker, to whom the literature of Ireland and of Italy is highly
indebted, has mentioned to me his surprise that the writers on modern gardening should have
overlooked the beautiful pastoral description in this and the two following stanzas.[142] It
is worthy a place, he adds, in the Eden of Milton. Spenser, on this occasion, lost sight of
the "trim gardens" of Italy and England, and drew from the treasures of his own rich imagination.
TODD.

    And fast beside these trickled softly downe.
    A gentle stream, &c.

Compare the following stanza in the continuation of the Orlando Innamorato, by Nilcolo degli
Agostinti, Lib. iv, C. 9.

    "Ivi è un mormorio assai soave, e basso,
    Che ogniun che l'ode lo fa addornientare,
    L'acqua, ch'io dissi gia per entro un sasso
    E parea che dicesse nel sonare.
    Vatti riposa, ormai sei stanco, e lasso,
    E gli augeletti, che s'udian cantare,
    Ne la dolce armonia par che ogn'un dica,
    Deh vien, e dormi ne la piaggia, aprica,"

Spenser's obligations to this poem seem to have escaped the notice of his commentators. J.C.
WALKER.

[042] The oak was dedicated to Jupiter, and the poplar to Hercules.

[043] Sicker, surely; Chaucer spells it siker.

[044] Yode, went.

[045] Tabreret, a tabourer.

[046] Tho, then

[047] Attone, at once--with him.

[048] Cato being present on one occasion at the floral games, the people out of respect to
him, forbore to call for the usual exposures; when informed of this he withdrew, that the spectators
might not be deprived of their usual entertainment.

[049] What is the reason that an easterly wind is every where unwholesome and disagreeable?
I am not sufficiently scientific to answer this question. Pope takes care to notice the fitness
of the easterly wind for the Cave of Spleen.

    No cheerful breeze this sullen region knows,
    The dreaded east is all the wind that blows.

Rape of the Lock.

[050] One sweet scene of early pleasures in my native land I have commemorated in the following
sonnet:--

NETLEY ABBEY.

    Romantic ruin! who could gaze on thee
    Untouched by tender thoughts, and glimmering dreams
    Of long-departed years? Lo! nature seems
    Accordant with thy silent majesty!
    The far blue hills--the smooth reposing sea--
    The lonely forest--the meandering streams--
    The farewell summer sun, whose mellowed beams
    Illume thine ivied halls, and tinge each tree,
    Whose green arms round thee cling--the balmy air--
    The stainless vault above, that cloud or storm
    'Tis hard to deem will ever more deform--
    The season's countless graces,--all appear
    To thy calm glory ministrant, and form
    A scene to peace and meditation dear!

D.L.R.

[051] "I was ever more disposed," says Hume, "to see the favourable than the unfavourable side
of things; a turn of mind which it is more happy to possess, than to be born to an estate of
ten thousand a year."

[052] So called, because the grounds were laid out in a tasteful style, under the direction
of Lord Auckland's sister, the Honorable Miss Eden.

[053] Songs of the East by Mrs. W.S. Carshore. D'Rozario & Co, Calcutta 1854.

[054] The lines form a portion of a poem published in Literary Leaves in the year 1840.

[055] Perhaps some formal or fashionable wiseacres may pronounce such simple ceremonies vulgar.
And such is the advance of civilization that even the very chimney-sweepers themselves begin
to look upon their old May-day merry-makings as beneath the dignity of their profession. "Suppose
now" said Mr. Jonas Hanway to a sooty little urchin, "I were to give you a shilling." "Lord
Almighty bless your honor, and thank you." "And what if I were to give you a fine tie-wig to
wear on May-day?" "Ah! bless your honor, my master wont let me go out on May-day," "Why not?"
"Because, he says, it's low life." And yet the merrie makings on May-day which are now deemed
ungenteel by chimney-sweepers were once the delight of Princes:--

    Forth goth all the court, both most and least,
    To fetch the flowres fresh, and branch and blome,
    And namely hawthorn brought both page and grome,
    And then rejoicing in their great delite
    Eke ech at others threw the flowres bright,
    The primrose, violet, and the gold
    With fresh garlants party blue and white.

Chaucer.

[056] The May-pole was usually decorated with the flowers of the hawthorn, a plant as emblematical
of the spring as the holly is of Christmas. Goldsmith has made its name familiar even to the
people of Bengal, for almost every student in the upper classes of the Government Colleges
has the following couplet by heart.

The hawthorn was amongst Burns's floral pets.

L.E.L. speaks of the hawthorn hedge on which "the sweet May has showered its white luxuriance,"
and the Rev. George Croly has a patriotic allusion to this English plant, suggested by a landscape
in France.

      'Tis a rich scene, and yet the richest charm
      That e'er clothed earth in beauty, lives not here.
      Winds no green fence around the cultured farm
      No blossomed hawthorn shields the cottage dear:
      The land is bright; and yet to thine how drear,
      Unrivalled England! Well the thought may pine
      For those sweet fields where, each a little sphere,
      In shaded, sacred fruitfulness doth shine,
    And the heart higher beats that says; 'This spot is mine.'

[057] On May-day, the Ancient Romans used to go in procession to the grotto of Egeria.

[058] See what is said of palms in a note on page 81.

[059] Phillips's Flora Historica.

[060] The word primrose is supposed to be a compound of prime and rose, and Spenser spells
it prime rose

    The pride and prime rose of the rest
    Made by the maker's self to be admired

The Rev. George Croly characterizes Bengal as a mountainous country--

    There's glory on thy mountains, proud Bengal--

and Dr. Johnson in his Journey of a day, (Rambler No. 65) charms the traveller in Hindustan
with a sight of the primrose and the oak.

"As he passed along, his ears were delighted with the morning song of the bird of paradise;
he was fanned by the last flutters of the sinking breeze, and sprinkled with dew by groves
of spices, he sometimes contemplated the towering height of the oak, monarch of the hills;
and sometimes caught the gentle fragrance of the primrose, eldest daughter of the spring."

In some book of travels, I forget which, the writer states, that he had seen the primrose in
Mysore and in the recesses of the Pyrenees. There is a flower sold by the Bengallee gardeners
for the primrose, though it bears but small resemblance to the English flower of that name.
On turning to Mr. Piddington's Index to the Plants of India I find under the head of Primula--Primula
denticula--Stuartii--rotundifolia--with the names in the Mawar or Nepaulese dialect. Sir Thomas
Browne.

[062] The allusion to the cowslip in Shakespeare's description of Imogene must not be passed
over here.--

                            On her left breast
    A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drop
    I' the bottom of the cowslip.

[063] The Guelder rose--This elegant plant is a native of Britain, and when in flower, has
at first sight, the appearance of a little maple tree that has been pelted with snow balls,
and we almost fear to see them melt away in the warm sunshine--Glenny.

[064] In a greenhouse

[065] Some flowers have always been made to a certain degree emblematical of sentiment in England
as elsewhere, but it was the Turks who substituted flowers for words to such an extent as to
entitle themselves to be regarded as the inventors of the floral language.

[066] The floral or vegetable language is not always the language of love or compliment. It
is sometimes severe and scornful. A gentleman sent a lady a rose as a declaration of his passion
and a slip of paper attached, with the inscription--"If not accepted, I am off to the war."
The lady forwarded in return a mango (man, go!)

[067] No part of the creation supposed to be insentient, exhibits to an imaginative observer
such an aspect of spiritual life and such an apparent sympathy with other living things as
flowers, shrubs and trees. A tree of the genus Mimosa, according to Niebuhr, bends its branches
downward as if in hospitable salutation when any one approaches near to it. The Arabs, are
on this account so fond of the "courteous tree" that the injuring or cutting of it down is
strictly prohibited.

[068] It has been observed that the defense is supplied in the following line--want of sense--a
stupidity that "errs in ignorance and not in cunning."

[069] There is apparently so much doubt and confusion is to the identity of the true Hyacinth,
and the proper application of its several names that I shall here give a few extracts from
other writers on this subject.

Some authors suppose the Red Martagon Lily to be the poetical Hyacinth of the ancients, but
this is evidently a mistaken opinion, as the azure blue color alone would decide and Pliny
describes the Hyacinth as having a sword grass and the smell of the grape flower, which agrees
with the Hyacinth, but not with the Martagon. Again, Homer mentions it with fragrant flowers
of the same season of the Hyacinth. The poets also notice the hyacinth under different colours,
and every body knows that the hyacinth flowers with sapphire colored purple, crimson, flesh
and white bells, but a blue martagon will be sought for in vain. Phillips' Flora Historica.

A doubt hangs over the poetical history of the modern, as well as of the ancient flower, owing
to the appellation Harebell being, indiscriminately applied both to Scilla wild Hyacinth, and
also to Campanula rotundifolia, Blue Bell. Though the Southern bards have occasionally misapplied
the word Harebell it will facilitate our understanding which flower is meant if we bear in
mind as a general rule that that name is applied differently in various parts of the island,
thus the Harebell of Scottish writers is the Campanula, and the Bluebell, so celebrated in
Scottish song, is the wild Hyacinth or Scilla while in England the same names are used conversely,
the Campanula being the Bluebell and the wild Hyacinth the Harebell. Eden Warwick.

The Hyacinth of the ancient fabulists appears to have been the corn-flag, (Gladiolus communis
of botanists) but the name was applied vaguely and had been early applied to the great larkspur
(Delphinium Ajacis) on account of the similar spots on the petals, supposed to represent the
Greek exclamation of grief Ai Ai, and to the hyacinth of modern times.

Our wild hyacinth, which contributes so much to the beauty of our woodland scenery during the
spring, may be regarded as a transition species between scilla and hyacinthus, the form and
drooping habit of its flower connecting it with the latter, while the six pieces that form
the two outer circles, being separate to the base, give it the technical character of the former.
It is still called Hyacinthus non-scriptus--but as the true hyacinth equally wants the inscription,
the name is singularly inappropriate. The botanical name of the hyacinth is Hyacinthus orientalis
which applies equally to all the varieties of colour, size and fulness.--W. Hinks.

[070] Old Gerard calls it Blew Harebel or English Jacint, from the French Jacinthe.

[071] Inhabitants of the Island of Chios

[072] Supposed by some to be Delphinium Ajacis or Larkspur. But no one can discover any letters
on the Larkspur.

[073] Some savants say that it was not the sunflower into which the lovelorn lass was transformed,
but the Heliotrope with its sweet odour of vanilla. Heliotrope signifies I turn towards the
sun. It could not have been the sun flower, according to some authors because that came from
Peru and Peru was not known to Ovid. But it is difficult to settle this grave question. As
all flowers turn towards the sun, we cannot fix on any one that is particularly entitled to
notice on that account.

[074] Zephyrus.

[075] "A remarkably intelligent young botanist of our acquaintance asserts it as his firm conviction
that many a young lady who would shrink from being kissed under the mistletoe would not have
the same objection to that ceremony if performed under the rose."--Punch.

[076] Mary Howitt mentions that amongst the private cultivators of roses in the neighbourhood
of London, the well-known publisher Mr. Henry S. Bohn is particularly distinguished. In his
garden at Twickenham one thousand varieties of the rose are brought to great perfection. He
gives a sort of floral fete to his friends in the height of the rose season.

[077] The learned dry the flower of the Forget me not and flatten it down in their herbals,
and call it, Myosotis Scorpioides--Scorpion shaped mouse's ear! They have been reproached for
this by a brother savant, Charles Nodier, who was not a learned man only but a man of wit and
sense.--Alphonse Karr.

[078] The Abbé Molina in his History of Chili mentions a species of basil which he calls ocymum
salinum: he says it resembles the common basil, except that the stalk is round and jointed;
and that though it grows sixty miles from the sea, yet every morning it is covered with saline
globules, which are hard and splendid, appearing at a distance like dew; and that each plant
furnishes about an ounce of fine salt every day, which the peasants collect and use as common
salt, but esteem it superior in flavour.--Notes to Darwin's Loves of the Plants.

[079] The Dutch are a strange people and of the most heterogeneous composition. They have an
odd mixture in their nature of the coldest utilitarianism and the most extravagant romance.
A curious illustration of this is furnished in their tulipomania, in which there was a struggle
between the love of the substantial and the love of the beautiful. One of their authors enumerates
the following articles as equivalent in money value to the price of one tulip root--"two lasts
of wheat--four lasts of rye--four fat oxen--eight fat swine--twelve fat sheep--two hogsheads
of wine--four tons of butter--one thousand pounds of cheese--a complete bed--a suit of clothes--and
a silver drinking cup."

[080] Maun, must

[081] Stoure, dust

[082] Weet, wetness, rain

[083] Glinted, peeped

[084] Wa's, walls.

[085] Bield, shelter

[086] Histie, dry

[087] Stibble field, a field covered with stubble--the stalks of corn left by the reaper.

[088] The origin of the Daisy--When Christ was three years old his mother wished to twine him
a birthday wreath. But as no flower was growing out of doors on Christmas eve, not in all the
promised land, and as no made up flowers were to be bought, Mary resolved to prepare a flower
herself. To this end she took a piece of bright yellow silk which had come down to her from
David, and ran into the same, thick threads of white silk, thread by thread, and while thus
engaged, she pricked her finger with the needle, and the pure blood stained some of the threads
with crimson, whereat the little child was much affected. But when the winter was past and
the rains were come and gone, and when spring came to strew the earth with flowers, and the
fig tree began to put forth her green figs and the vine her buds, and when the voice or the
turtle was heard in the land, then came Christ and took the tender plant with its single stem
and egg shaped leaves and the flower with its golden centre and rays of white and red, and
planted it in the vale of Nazareth. Then, taking up the cup of gold which had been presented
to him by the wise men of the East, he filled it at a neighbouring fountain, and watered the
flower and breathed upon it. And the plant grew and became the most perfect of plants, and
it flowers in every meadow, when the snow disappears, and is itself the snow of spring, delighting
the young heart and enticing the old men from the village to the fields. From then until now
this flower has continued to bloom and although it may be plucked a hundred times, again it
blossoms--Colshorn's Deutsche Mythologie furs Deutsche Volk.

[090] George Town.

[091] The hill trumpeter.

[092] Nutmeg and Clove plantations.

[093] Leigh Hunt, in the dedication of his Stories in Verse to the Duke of Devonshire speaks
of his Grace as "the adorner of the country with beautiful gardens, and with the far-fetched
botany of other climates; one of whom it may be said without exaggeration and even without
a metaphor, that his footsteps may be traced in flowers."

[094] The following account of a newly discovered flower may be interesting to my readers.
"It is about the size of a walnut, perfectly white, with fine leaves, resembling very much
the wax plant. Upon the blooming of the flower, in the cup formed by the leaves, is the exact
image of a dove lying on its back with its wings extended. The peak of the bill and the eyes
are plainly to be seen and a small leaf before the flower arrives at maturity forms the outspread
tail. The leaf can be raised or shut down with the finger without breaking or apparently injuring
it until the flower reaches its bloom, when it drops,"--Panama Star.

[095] Signifying the dew of the sea. The rosemary grows best near the sea-shore, and when the
wind is off the land it delights the home-returning voyager with its familiar fragrance.

[096] Perhaps it is not known to all my readers that some flowers not only brighten the earth
by day with their lovely faces, but emit light at dusk. In a note to Darwin's Loves of the
Plants it is stated that the daughter of Linnaeus first observed the Nasturtium to throw out
flashes of light in the morning before sunrise, and also during the evening twilight, but not
after total darkness came on. The philosophers considered these flashes to be electric. Mr.
Haggren, Professor of Natural History, perceived one evening a faint flash of light repeatedly
darted from a marigold. The flash was afterwards often seen by him on the same flower two or
three times, in quick succession, but more commonly at intervals of some minutes. The light
has been observed also on the orange, the lily, the monks hood, the yellow goats beard and
the sun flower. This effect has sometimes been so striking that the flowers have looked as
if they were illuminated for a holiday.

Lady Blessington has a fanciful allusion to this flower light. "Some flowers," she says, "absorb
the rays of the sun so strongly that in the evening they yield slight phosphoric flashes, may
we not compare the minds of poets to those flowers which imbibing light emit it again in a
different form and aspect?"

[097] The Shan and other Poems

[098] My Hindu friend is not answerable for the following notes.

[099]
    And infants winged, who mirthful throw
    Shafts rose-tipped from nectareous bow.

Kam Déva, the Cupid of the Hindu Mythology, is thus represented. His bow is of the sugar cane,
his string is formed of wild bees, and his arrows are tipped with the rose.--Tales of the Forest.

[100] In 1811 this plant was subjected to a regular set of experiments by Dr. G. Playfair,
who, with many of his brethren, bears ample testimony of its efficacy in leprosy, lues, tenia,
herpes, dropsy, rheumatism, hectic and intermittent fever. The powdered bark is given in doses
of 5-6 grains twice a day.--Dr. Voight's Hortus Suburbanus Calcuttensis.

[101] It is perhaps of the Flax tribe. Mr. Piddington gives it the Sanscrit name of Atasi and
the Botanical name Linum usitatissimum.

[102] Roxburgh calls it "intensely fragrant."

[103] Sometimes employed by robbers to deprive their victims of the power of resistance. In
a strong dose it is poison.

[104] It is said to be used by the Chinese to blacken their eyebrows and their shoes.

[105] Mirábilis jálapa, or Marvel of Peru, is called by the country people in England the four
o'clock flower, from its opening regularly at that time. There is a species of broom in America
which is called the American clock, because it exhibits its golden flowers every morning at
eleven, is fully open by one and closes again at two.

[106] Marvell died in 1678; Linnaeus died just a hundred years later.

[108] Hazlitt has a pleasant essay on a garden Sun-dial, from which I take the following passage:--

Horas non numero nisi serenas--is the motto of a sun dial near Venice. There is a softness
and a harmony in the words and in the thought unparalleled. Of all conceits it is surely the
most classical. "I count only the hours that are serene." What a bland and care-dispelling
feeling! How the shadows seem to fade on the dial plate as the sky looms, and time presents
only a blank unless as its progress is marked by what is joyous, and all that is not happy
sinks into oblivion! What a fine lesson is conveyed to the mind--to take no note of time but
by its benefits, to watch only for the smiles and neglect the frowns of fate, to compose our
lives of bright and gentle moments, turning always to the sunny side of things, and letting
the rest slip from our imaginations, unheeded or forgotten! How different from the common art
of self tormenting! For myself, as I rode along the Brenta, while the sun shone hot upon its
sluggish, slimy waves, my sensations were far from comfortable, but the reading this inscription
on the side of a glaring wall in an instant restored me to myself, and still, whenever I think
of or repeat it, it has the power of wafting me into the region of pure and blissful abstraction.

[109] These are the initial letters of the Latin names of the plants, they will be found at
length on the lower column.

[110] Hampton Court was laid out by Cardinal Wolsey. The labyrinth, one of the best which remains
in England, occupies only a quarter of an acre, and contains nearly a mile of winding walks.
There is an adjacent stand, on which the gardener places himself, to extricate the adventuring
stranger by his directions. Switzer condemns this plan for having only four stops and gives
a plan for one with twenty.--Loudon.

[111] The lower part of Bengal, not far from Calcutta, is here described

[112] Sir William Jones states that the Brahmins believe that the blue champac flowers only
in Paradise, it being yellow every where else.

[113] The wild dog of Bengal

[114] The elephant.

[115] Even Jeremy Bentham, the great Utilitarian Philosopher, who pronounced the composition
and perusal of poetry a mere amusement of no higher rank than the game of Pushpin, had still
something of the common feeling of the poetry of nature in his soul. He says of himself--"I
was passionately fond of flowers from my youth, and the passion has never left me." In praise
of botany he would sometimes observe, "We cannot propagate stones:" meaning that the mineralogist
cannot circulate his treasures without injuring himself, but the botanist can multiply his
specimens at will and add to the pleasures of others without lessening his own. He can converse
with a picture and find an agreeable companion in a statue. He meets with a secret refreshment
in a description, and often feels a greater satisfaction in the prospect of fields and meadows,
than another does in the possession.--Spectator.

[117] Kent died in 1748 in the 64th year of his age. As a painter he had no great merit, but
many men of genius amongst his contemporaries had the highest opinion of his skill as a Landscape-gardener.
He sometimes, however, carried his love of the purely natural to a fantastic excess, as when
in Kensington-garden he planted dead trees to give an air of wild truth to the landscape.

    In Esher's peaceful grove,
    Where Kent and nature strove for Pelham's love,

this landscape-gardener is said to have exhibited a very remarkable degree of taste and judgment.
I cannot resist the temptation to quote here Horace Walpole's eloquent account of Kent: "At
that moment appeared Kent, painter and poet enough to taste the charms of landscape, bold and
opinionative enough to dare and to dictate, and born with a genius to strike out a great system
from the twilight of imperfect essays. He leaped the fence and saw that all nature was a garden[143].
He felt the delicious contrast of hill and valley changing imperceptibly into each other, tasted
the beauty of the gentle swell, or concave swoop, and remarked how loose groves crowned an
easy eminence with happy ornament, and while they called in the distant view between their
graceful stems, removed and extended the perspective by delusive comparison."--On Modern Gardening.

[118] When the rage for a wild irregularity in the laying out of gardens was carried to its
extreme, the garden paths were so ridiculously tortuous or zig-zag, that, as Brown remarked,
a man might put one foot upon zig and the other upon zag.

[119] The natives are much too fond of having tanks within a few feet of their windows, so
that the vapours from the water go directly into the house. These vapours are often seen hanging
or rolling over the surface of the tank like thick wreaths of smoke.

[120] Broken brick is called kunkur, but I believe the real kunkur is real gravel, and if I
am not mistaken a pretty good sort of gravel, formed of particles of red granite, is obtainable
from the Rajmahal hills.

[121] Pope in his well known paper in the Guardian complains that a citizen is no sooner proprietor
of a couple of yews but he entertains thoughts of erecting them into giants, like those of
Guildhall. "I know an eminent cook," continues the writer, "who beautified his country seat
with a coronation dinner in greens, where you see the Champion flourishing on horseback at
one end of the table and the Queen in perpetual youth at the other."

When the desire to subject nature to art had been carried to the ludicrous extravagances so
well satirized by Pope, men rushed into an opposite extreme. Uvedale Price in his first rage
for nature and horror of art, destroyed a venerable old garden that should have been respected
for its antiquity, if for nothing else. He lived to repent his rashness and honestly to record
that repentance. Coleridge, observed to John Sterling, that "we have gone too far in destroying
the old style of gardens and parks." "The great thing in landscape gardening" he continued
"is to discover whether the scenery is such that the country seems to belong to man or man
to the country."

[122] In England it costs upon the average about 12 shillings or six rupees to have a tree
of 30 feet high transplanted.

[123] I believe the largest leaf in the world is that of the Fan Palm or Talipot tree in Ceylon.
"The branch of the tree," observes the author of Sylvan Sketches, "is not remarkably large,
but it bears a leaf large enough to cover twenty men. It will fold into a fan and is then no
bigger than a man's arm."

[124] Southey's Common-Place Book.

[125] The height of a full grown banyan may be from sixty to eighty feet; and many of them,
I am fully confident, cover at least two acres.--Oriental Field Sports.

There is a banyan tree about five and twenty miles from Berhampore, remarkable for the height
of the lower branches from the ground. A man standing up on the houdah of an elephant may pass
under it without touching the foliage.

A tree has been described as growing in China of a size so prodigious that one branch of it
only will so completely cover two hundred sheep that they cannot be perceived by those who
approach the tree, and another so enormous that eighty persons can scarcely embrace the trunk.--Sylvan
Sketches.

[126] This praise is a little extravagant, but the garden is really very tastefully laid out,
and ought to furnish a useful model to such of the people of this city as have spacious grounds.
The area of the garden is about two hundred and fifty nine acres. This garden was commenced
in 1768 by Colonel Kyd. It then passed to the care of Dr. Roxburgh, who remained in charge
of it from 1793 to the date of his death 1813.

[127] Alphonse Karr, bitterly ridicules the Botanical Savants with their barbarous nomenclature.
He speaks of their mesocarps and quinqueloculars infundibuliform, squammiflora, guttiferas
monocotyledous &c. &c. with supreme disgust. Our English poet, Wordsworth, also used to complain
that some of our familiar English names of flowers, names so full of delightful associations,
were beginning to be exchanged even in common conversation for the coldest and harshest scientific
terms.

[128] The Hand of Eve--the handiwork of Eve.

[129] Without thorn the rose: Dr. Bentley calls this a puerile fancy. But it should be remembered,
that it was part of the curse denounced upon the Earth for Adam's transgression, that it should
bring forth thorns and thistles. Gen. iii. 18. Hence the general opinion has prevailed, that
there were no thorns before; which is enough to justify a poet, in saying "the rose was without
thorn."--NEWTON.

[130] See page 188. My Hindu friend is not responsible for the selection of the following notes.

[131] Birdlime is prepared from the tenacious milky juice of the Peepul and the Banyan. The
leaves of the Banyan are used by the Bramins to eat off, for which purpose they are joined
together by inkles. Birds are very fond of the fruit of the Peepul, and often drop the seeds
in the cracks of buildings, where they vegetate, occasioning great damage if not removed in
time.--Voight.

[132] The ancient Greeks and Romans also married trees together in a similar manner.--R.

[133] The root of this plant, (Euphorbia ligularia,) mixed up with black pepper, is used by
the Natives against snake bites.--Roxburgh.

[134] Coccos nucifera, the root is sometimes masticated instead of the Betle-nut. In Brazil,
baskets are made of the small fibres. The hard case of the stem is converted into drums, and
used in the construction of huts. The lower part is so hard as to take a beautiful polish,
when it resembles agate. The reticulated substance at base of the leaf is formed into cradles,
and, as some say, into a coarse kind of cloth. The unexpanded terminal bud is a delicate article
of food. The leaves furnish thatch for dwellings, and materials for fences, buckets, and baskets;
they are used for writing on, and make excellent torches; potash in abundance is yielded by
their ashes. The midrib of the leaf serves for oars. The juice of the flower and stems is replete
with sugar, and is fermented into excellent wine, or distilled into arrack, or the sugary part
is separated as Jagary. The tree is cultivated in many parts of the Indian islands, for the
sake not only of the sap and milk it yields, but for the kernel of its fruit, used both as
food and for culinary purposes, and as affording a large proportion of oil which is burned
in lamps throughout India, and forms also a large article of export to Europe. The fibrous
and uneatable rind of the fruit is not only used to polish furniture and to scour the floors
of rooms, but is manufactured into a kind of cordage, (Koir) which is nearly equal in strength
to hemp, and which Roxburgh designates as the very best of all materials for cables, on account
of its great elasticity and strength. The sap of this as well as of other palms is found to
be the simplest and easiest remedy that can be employed for removing constipation in persons
of delicate habit, especially European females.--Voigt's Suburbanus Calcuttensis.

[135] The root is bitter, nauseous, and used in North America as anthelmintic. A. Richard.

[136] Of one species of tulsi (Babooi-tulsi) the seeds, if steeped in water, swell into a pleasant
jelly, which is used by the Natives in cases of catarrh, dysentry, chronic diarrhoea &c. and
is very nourishing and demulcent--Voigt.

[137] This list is framed from such as were actually grown by the author between 1837 and the
present year, from seed received chiefly through the kindness of Captain Kirke.

[138] The native market gardens sell Madras roses at the rate of thirteen young plants for
the rupee. Mrs. Gore tells us that in London the most esteemed kinds of old roses are usually
sold by nurserymen at fifty shillings a hundred the first French and other varieties seldom
exceed half a guinea a piece.

[139] I may add to Mr. Speede's list of Roses the Banksian Rose. The flowers are yellow, in
clusters, and scentless. Mrs. Gore says it was imported into England from the Calcutta Botanical
Garden, it is called Wong moue heong. There is another rose also called the Banksian Rose extremely
small, very double, white, expanding from March till May, highly scented with violets. The
Rosa Brownii was brought from Nepaul by Dr. Wallich. A very sweet rose has been brought into
Bengal from England. It is called Rosa Peeliana after the original importer Sir Lawrence Peel.
It is a hybrid. I believe it is a tea scented rose and is probably a cross between one of that
sort and a common China rose, but this is mere conjecture. The varieties of the tea rose are
now cultivated by Indian malees with great success. They sell at the price of from eight annas
to a rupee each. A variety of the Bengal yellow rose, is now comparatively common. It fetches
from one to three rupees, each root. It is known to the native gardeners by the English name
of "Yellow Rose". Amongst the flowers introduced here since Mr. Speede's book appeared, is
the beautiful blue heliotrope which the natives call kala heliotrope.

[141] The following is the passage alluded to by Todd

                               A pleasant grove
    With chant of tuneful birds resounding loud,
    Thither he bent his way, determined there
    To rest at noon, and entered soon the shade,
    High roofed, and walks beneath and alleys brown,
    That opened in the midst a woody scene,
    Nature's own work it seemed (nature taught art)
    And to a superstitious eye the haunt
    Of wood gods and wood nymphs.
      Gather therefore the rose whilest yet is prime
      For soone comes age that will her pride deflowre;
      Gather the rose of love, whilest yet is time
    Whilest loving thou mayst loved be with equal crime[144]

Fairie Queene, Book II. Canto XII.

[143] I suppose in the remark that Kent leapt the fence, Horace Walpole alludes to that artist's
practice of throwing down walls and other boundaries and sinking fosses called by the common
people Ha! Ha's! to express their astonishment when the edge of the fosse brought them to an
unexpected stop.

Horace Walpole's History of Modern Gardening is now so little read that authors think they
may steal from it with safety. In the Encyclopaedia Britannica the article on Gardening is
taken almost verbatim from it, with one or two deceptive allusions such as--"As Mr. Walpole
observes"--"Says Mr. Walpole," &c. but there is nothing to mark where Walpole's observations
and sayings end, and the Encyclopaedia thus gets the credit of many pages of his eloquence
and sagacity. The whole of Walpole's History of Modern Gardening is given piece-meal as an
original contribution to Harrrison's Floricultural Cabinet, each portion being signed CLERICUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Then be not coy, but use your time;
    And while ye may, so marry:
    For having lost but once your prime
    You may for ever tarry.

