Having quoted Monsieur Lenormant’s careful description of the chief pride of Poseidonia, we
shall confine ourselves to as few remarks as possible concerning the two remaining temples.
The Basilica, a misnomer of which the veriest amateur must at once perceive the absurdity,
is inferior both in size and in beauty of proportion to its close neighbour of Neptune. Its
chief peculiarity from an architectural point of view will be at once remarked, for it has
its two façades composed of seven—an odd number—of columns, so that its interior easily divides
itself into two narrow chambers of equal length, affording ample ground for the theory, now
generally held, that this building was not a hall of Justice, or Basilica, but a temple intended
expressly for the worship of dual divinities. Almost without a doubt it was erected—probably
not long after the Temple of Poseidon—in honour of Demeter (Ceres) and of her only child Persephone
(Proserpine), who was seized from her mother’s care by the amorous god of the Infernal Regions,
as she was plucking anemones in the verdant meadows of Enna. We all know “the old sweet mythos”;
we all understand its hidden allegory with regard to the sowing, the up-springing and the garnering
of the yellow corn, that spends half the year in the embraces of the earth, the palace of Pluto,
and half the year on the broad loving bosom of Mother Demeter. Here then within these bare
and ruined walls were mother and daughter worshipped by the people of Poseidonia, who reasonably
considered that the two goddesses of the Earth should have their habitation as near as possible
to the Sanctuary of the Sovereign of Ocean.

Much smaller than either of these immense temples is the third remaining Greek building of
Paestum, which lies a good quarter of a mile to the north, not far from the Golden Gate, the
Porta Aurea, that leads northward in the direction of Salerno. Like that of Neptune, this temple
is hexastyle, with six columns on each of its façades and twelve on either flank, but as it
is little more than half the size of its grander and older brethren, it is now frequently known
as “Il Piccolo Tempio,” although its former incorrect ascription to Ceres still clings to it
in popular parlance. It is from this building, which stands on slightly rising ground, that
the best impression of the whole city and of its wondrous setting between the savage Lucanian
hills and the blue Mediterranean can be obtained.

  “Between the mountains and the tideless sea
  Stretches a plain where silence reigns supreme;
  A land of asphodel and weeds that teem
  Where once a city’s life ran joyfully.
  ‘Vanity! Vanity! All Vanity!’
  Whisper the winds to Sele’s murmuring stream;
  Whilst the vast temples preach th’ eternal theme,
  How pass the glories and their memory.
  Think what these ruins saw! what songs and cries
  Once through these roofless colonnades did ring!
  What crowds here gathered, where the all-seeing skies
  For centuries have watched the daisies spring!
  Dead all within this crumbling circle lies:
  Dead as the roses Roman bards did sing.”

Beautiful as Paestum presents itself in the bright noontide of a Spring day, beneath a cloudless
sky and with the blue waters of the Mediterranean lapping the distant yellow sands, there appears
something incongruous in the sharp contrast between this joyfulness of vigorous life and the
solemn atmosphere of the deserted city. The noisy twittering of multitudes of ubiquitous sparrows,
equally at home in Doric temples as amongst the sooty chimney stacks of London; the twinklings
and rustlings of the lizards in the young leaves and grass; the polyglot babble of excursionists
from Naples or La Cava that a warm day in Spring invariably attracts to Paestum:—these are
not sounds that blend well with the solemn spirit of the place. We long to cross the intervening
ages so as to throw ourselves, if only for one short hour, outside the cares and interests
of to-day into the heart of that refined civilisation which is gone for ever;—with the cheerful
sunlight around us, and with our fellow-mortals on pleasure bent close at hand, we find it
difficult to forget the present. Would it be possible, we ask ourselves, to spend a nocturnal
vigil within the hall of the great temple of the Sea God, so as to behold, like that undaunted
traveller, Crawford Ramage, the shafts of crystalline moonlight shed through the aperture of
the roof leap from pillar to pillar, making bars of brilliant light amidst the surrounding
blackness! O to sit and meditate thus engrossed with the memory of the past, and with no other
sounds around us than the sad cry of the aziola, the little downy owl that Shelley so loved!
But the gaunt spectre of Fever ever haunts this spot, and after sunset his power is supreme;
so that he would be a bold man indeed who in an age of luxury and selfish comfort would carry
out an idea at once so romantic and so perilous.

We ourselves were especially fortunate on the occasion of our last visit to Poseidonia on a
mild day in December, a month which on the Lucanian shore somewhat resembles a northern October.
A soft luminous haze hung over the landscape and over the Bay of Salerno itself, rendering
the classic mountains at once indistinct in outline and unnaturally lofty to the eye. More
grandiose and mysterious than under the fierce light of a sunny noontide appeared that day
the three giant pillared forms, as we entered the precincts of the ruined city by the Siren’s
Gate, and made our way through the thick herbage still pearled with dew, since there was neither
sunshine nor sirocco to dry “the tears of mournful Eve” off the clumps of silver-glinted acanthus,
or the tall grasses bending with the moisture. In the warm humid air we seated ourselves on
the plinth of a column, and gazing around allowed the influence of this marvellous spot to
sink deep into the soul. No tourists with unseemly or unnecessary chatter arrived that day
to share our selfish delight or to break the all-pervading spell of solitude; all lay peaceful
and deserted. All was silent too save for the low monotonous sobbing of the sea on the unseen
beach near at hand, the historic beach on which at various times throughout the roll of past
ages Doric colonists, Epirot warriors, Roman legionaries and fierce Mohammedan pirates had
disembarked, all with the same object:—to seize the proud city that had now for the last thousand
years lain uninhabited, save for the owls and the bats. It was too cloudy a day for sun-loving
creatures such as lizards or serpents to emerge and rustle amongst the broken stones and leaves,
over all of which during the silent hours of the past night Arachne had been employed in weaving
her softest and whitest textures, that the windless morning had allowed to remain intact. The
only sign of animate life was visible in a pair of lively gold-finches, which with merry notes
were fluttering from thistle to thistle, picking the down from each ripened flower-head and
prodigally scattering the seeds upon the weed-grown soil where once had bloomed the odorous
Roses of Paestum that the poets loved.

Sitting thus amid the silence and solitude of a city half as old as Time itself, we were unexpectedly
aroused by a gruff salutation proceeding from a little distance behind the temple. Turning
quickly in the direction of the sound, we perceived the figure of a tall bearded man dressed
in conical hat, with goat-skin trousers and cross-gartered legs, who but for the gun slung
across his shoulders by a stout leathern strap might well have been mistaken for an apparition
of the god Pan himself returned to earth. Vague recollections of the brigand Manzoni, the scourge
of the neighbourhood and the murderer of more than one unhappy visitor to the ruins of Paestum
in the good old vetturino days, flashed through our mind, as we surveyed the muscular frame
and the fowling-piece of the strange being before us. It was with a sigh of relief that we
noted upon the straight stretch of white road leading to the Little Temple in the distance
the presence of two royal carabinieri majestically riding at a foot’s pace, their tall forms
enveloped in long black cloaks whose folds swept over their horses’ tails. We felt reassured,
and when for a second time the guttural voice addressed us in unintelligible patois, we perceived
the innocent object of this mysterious visit. Searching in a capacious goat-skin bag, a species
of Neapolitan sporran, this descendant of the Poseidonian Greeks produced and held up to our
gaze three birds that he had shot in his morning’s hunting. For the modest sum of three lire
the game exchanged hands, and the sportsman departed, well satisfied with his luck. Next evening
we feasted royally in our inn at Salerno upon a succulent woodcock fattened upon the berries
of the wood of Persano, and upon a couple of snipe that had grown plump amongst the Neptunian
marshes. Nor was this dainty addition to our supper that night altogether undeserved; for having
decided in a momentary fit of enthusiasm to forego the usual basket of hotel food at the time
of starting from Salerno, in order to follow the advice of old Evelyn “to diet with the natives,”
we had preferred to take our chance of midday refreshment at the solitary osteria within the
ruined city wall. The good people of the inn did what they could to regale the two gran’ signori
Inglesi, whose unexpected presence had the effect of creating some stir within their humble
walls. No little time was expended in bustling preparations, before a flask of red wine, some
coarse bread, a dish of fried eggs and a plateful of cold sausage were placed before us upon
the rough oak table, well scored with knife-cuts. Eggs, wine and bread are usually tolerable
everywhere throughout Italy, no matter how mean the inn that provides them; but the Lucanian
sausage, though interesting as a relic of classical times, is positive poison to the Anglo-Saxon
digestion. For the Lucanian sausage of to-day is the Lucanica unchanged; the same tough, greasy,
odoriferous compound, in fact, that Cicero describes as “an intestine, stuffed with minced
pork, mixed with ground pepper, cummin, savory, rue, rock-parsley, berries of laurel, and suet.”
And we have only to add that mingling with the above-mentioned condiments there was an all-pervading
flavour of wood-smoke, due to the sausage’s place of storage, a hook within the kitchen chimney.
But if the fare was rough, it was cheap and smacked of classical times, and our reception by
the Paestani of to-day was most cordial.

We left Poseidonia late in the afternoon, casting back many regretful glances at the three
giant sentinels of the plain, looming preternaturally large in the rapidly fading light of
a starless evening. At that hour we felt we could understand and sympathise with the poor untutored
peasant’s fear and avoidance of these lonely ruins, for superstition is often as much the result
of chance environment as of crass ignorance.

                                CHAPTER X

                          SORRENTO AND ITS POET

It has been said of more than one spot on this globe, that it was so beautiful in summer the
marvel was to think any one could die there; and so wretched in winter, it was a miracle for
its inhabitants to survive. Sorrento may be said to belong to this class of place, for the
climate of its short winter is one of the most trying and inclement that can possibly be imagined,
whilst during spring, summer and early autumn it well merits its local reputation as il piccolo
paradiso of the Bay of Naples, and its air is considered by Neapolitans as the “balm in Gilead”
for every evil to which human flesh is heir. The Lactarian Mountains protect the plain of Sorrento
in summer from the scorching rays of the sun, and lay their beneficent shadow for several hours
of the long hot summer’s day over the many thousands who dwell on the fertile Piano di Sorrento
at their base. But in winter these same hills intercept the blessed sunshine, which is what
most travellers speed southwards to obtain, and leave the coast line from Castellamare to the
Punta di Sorrento with its northern aspect wrapped in shade and moisture, whilst the remainder
of the Bay is still basking in the genial warmth, so that anything more miserable than a mid-winter
sojourn in Sorrento it would be impossible to conceive. There are of course calm warm days
to be met with even in December and January, but these are occasional and by no means dependable
blessings, and the visitor who persists in taking up his abode here at this season of the year
must prepare himself to experience cold, damp, wind and rain, without any of the contrivances
or comforts of a northern winter. “One swallow does not make a summer,” and on the same principle
a southern latitude and the presence of orange groves do not necessarily imply a salubrious
climate; indeed, the sub-tropical surroundings seem to add an extra degree of chilliness to
the place. To sit at Christmastide in a large lofty room before a meagre fire of sputtering
smoky logs, with Vesuvius wrapped from crest to base in a white mantle of new fallen snow,
and with an icy tramontana from the bleak Abruzzi howling round the house, bending the bay
trees and penetrating into every corner of the chamber, is by no means the ideal picture of
a winter in the Sunny South; yet this is only what the traveller must be prepared to face,
and is very likely to obtain. Nor is the cold compensated for by any advantages in the neighbourhood
itself, for there is but the high road from Castellamare which passes through the town and
leads above the seashore to Massa Lubrense. It is all very well in its way, but in wet weather
its surface is one sheet of slippery mud, and the streams pouring down the hillside make it
chilly and damp for all who are not quick walkers. Besides this not very attractive and soon
exploited walk, there are only the vicoletti, the narrow steep rocky paths running up hill,
which make rough going and give little pleasure, for they are almost all bounded on either
side by high stone walls that jealously exclude the view. So much for Sorrento in its winter
dress. But when the spring comes, here truly is a transformation from cold and torpor! The
soft warm air is redolent of the penetrating fragrance of orange blossom, of stocks, of jessamine,
of wallflower, and of a hundred odorous plants and shrubs from each garden and grove behind
the many obstructing walls. The balconies and gate-pillars are draped in scented masses of
the beautiful wistaria, which in Italy produces its long pendant bunches of purple flowers
before putting forth its bronze-coloured leaves. Cascades of white and yellow banksia roses
fall over each confining barrier, or else their stems may be seen climbing like huge serpents
up the trunks of pine and olive, to burst forth amidst the topmost boughs into floral rockets
against the cloudless sky. The ravines with which the whole of the Piano di Sorrento is intersected
are filled with a perfect jungle of fresh spring foliage, amidst whose varied tints of green
appear here and there the bright red shoots of the pomegranate trees bursting into leaf. In
the heavily perfumed air at dusk, or when the bright moonlight is flooding the whole scene
and is turning the Bay into a mirror of molten silver, the song of the innumerable nightingales
can be heard resounding from all sides; alas! too often sweet songs of sorrow for nests despoiled
by the ruthless hands of young Sorrentine imps, as in the days of the Georgics.

  “Qualis populeâ mærens Philomela sub umbrâ
  Amissos queritur fetus, quos durus arator
  Observans nido implumes detraxit, at illa
  Flet noctem, ramoque sedens miserabile carmen
  Integrat, et mœstis late loca questibus implet.”

  (“At nightfall hear sad Philomel upraise
  Her mellow notes amid the dark-leaved bays,
  Mourning her babes and desecrated bower,
  Which some rough peasant robbed in evil hour;
  She tells her story of despair and love,
  Until her plaintive music fills the grove.”)

All is fragrant, warm, genial, and peaceful, save for the melancholy notes of poor ill-used
Philomel, who is foolish enough to visit a cruel country, wherein every bird is merely regarded
as a toothsome morsel for the family pot. We bird-lovers of Britain, with our Selborne Societies
and our Wild Birds’ Protection Acts, find it extremely difficult to understand the utter indifference
displayed by Italians of all classes towards the feathered race. The whole of the beautiful
country with its cypress hedges and olive groves lies almost mute and lifeless, for on every
festival the fields and lanes are patrolled by bands of cacciatori with dogs and guns on the
look-out for game, if blackbirds and sparrows can be accounted such. In some districts it is
even dangerous for pedestrians to use the roads on a Sunday, for fear of a stray bullet, since
all, as a rule, fire recklessly at any creature within and out of range. Nor is this senseless
war of extermination carried on merely with guns, for trapping is used extensively, and very
ingenious and elaborate are some of the arts employed in this wretched quest. Every country
house has its uccellare, or snare for the securing of small birds for the table, whilst many
of the parish priests in the mountain districts add to their scanty incomes by catching the
fledglings which the young peasants sell in the neighbouring market. The result is what might
only naturally be expected—a scarcity of birds and an almost complete absence of song, for
the whole countryside has been practically denuded of blackbirds and thrushes; even the nightingale
has escaped destruction rather on account of its nocturnal habits than of its tiny size and
exquisite notes. It is positively sickening to observe the quantities of slaughtered wild birds
in an Italian market at any season of the year, for the work of devastation proceeds apace
equally in spring time. Basketfuls of thrushes and blackbirds, and strings of smaller varieties—linnets,
sparrows, robins, finches, even the diminutive gold-finches, most beautiful, most gay, and
most innocent of all songsters—are being hawked about by leathern-lunged contadini, who, alas!
always manage to find customers in plenty. No matter how melodious, how lovely, or how useful
to the farmer a bird may be, no Italian, high or low, seems to have any sense or appreciation
of its merits except as an article of food; it is merely a thing that requires to be caught,
killed, cooked and eaten, and Providence has decreed its existence for no other purpose; even
gold-finches in the eye of an Italian look better served on a skewer than when they are flying
round the thistle-heads, uttering their bright musical notes and enlivening the dead herbage
of winter with their gay plumage. Che bel arrosto! (what a glorious dish!) sigh the romantic
peasants, as they glance upward for a moment from their labour in the fields at the sound of
the larks carolling overhead; and though an educated Italian would probably not give vent to
so vulgar a remark, he would much prefer the bel arrosto to the “profuse strains of unpremeditated
art” that so entrance the northerner, who is in reality far more of a poet by nature than the
more picturesque dweller of the South. Tantum pro avibus.

As summer advances, the delight of bathing in the limpid waters of the Bay is added to the
other attractions of Sorrento, whilst many pleasant and profitable hours can be passed in reading
or writing during the long midday rest in the cool airy carpetless and curtainless rooms, where
on the frescoed ceilings there plays the green shimmer of light that penetrates through the
closed bars of the persiani, the outside heavy wooden shutters that let in the sweet air, but
somehow seem to exclude the intense heat. With the approach of sunset and the throwing open
of casements to catch the westerly breeze, there comes a delightful ramble, perhaps an excursion
on mule-back to the famous convent of the Deserto or some other point of interest; or else
a row upon the glassy waters at our feet, to explore “Queen Joanna’s Bath,” or some strange
caverns beyond the headland of Sorrento, well known to our boat-men. That is the true life
of dolce far niente, but such an ideal existence can only be indulged in during summer time
or in late spring; to pass a winter at Sorrento the heaviest of clothing, abundance of overcoats
and rugs, hot-water bottles, cough drops, ammoniated quinine and all the usual adjuncts of
a northern yule-tide must be carefully provided before-hand by the traveller, who is bold enough
to tempt Providence by turning what is essentially a warm weather retreat into a place of winter
residence.

In early autumn also the place has its charms, in the days when the market is filled with stalls
heaped with glowing masses of fruit, many of them unknown to us wanderers from the north. There
are peaches that resemble our own fruit at home, and there are also great yellow flushed velvety
globes, like the sun-kissed cheeks of a fair Sorrentina, that appear tempting to the eye, but
are in reality tough as leather, for they are the cotogni or quince-peaches of Italy, which
to our feeble palates and digestions seem only fit for cooking, though the experienced native
contrives to make them edible by soaking the fruit in wine. The moment he sits down to table,
he carefully pares his cotogne and cuts it into sections, which he drops into a glass of red
wine where they repose until the meal is finished; by this time the fruit has become thoroughly
saturated, and it is then eaten with apparent relish. There are hundreds of apples, some of
a shining rich crimson and others of dull yellow peppered over with tiny black specks, the
renati, highly prized by the natives for their delicate flavour and soft flesh. There are of
course loads of grapes, varying from the little honey-tasting purple sort, that has been introduced
from California, to the huge but somewhat insipid bunches of the white Regina; we note also
the quaintly shaped “Ladies’ Fingers,” which are especially sweet. The figs, massed together
in serried layers between fresh vine leaves and costing a soldo the dozen, stand around in
glossy purple pyramids, so luscious that their sugary tears are exuding from their skins, and
so ripe that they seem to cry to be eaten before noon. Here is a barrow piled high with the
little green fruit, each separate fig being decorated with a pink cyclamen stuck in its crest;
and here is a smaller load of the black Vescovo, which is said to obtain its ecclesiastical
name from the fact that the parent stock of this highly esteemed variety originally flourished
in the bishop’s garden at Sorrento. No one who has not visited the shores of the Mediterranean
in September or early October can realize the luscious possibilities of the fig; for there
seems nothing in common between the freshly-picked fruit of the south, bursting its skin with
liquid sugar, and the dry sweetish woolly object which tries to ripen on the sheltered wall
of an English garden and is eaten with apparent gusto by those who know not its Italian brother.
Being autumn, we have missed one prominent feature of the fruit market, the great green-skinned
water-melons (poponi) with their rose-coloured pulp and masses of coal-black seeds, which form
the favourite summer fruit of the people, who find both food and drink in their cool nutritious
flesh. But even gayer and more striking than the fruits are the piles of vegetables, arranged
with a fine appreciation of colour to which only an Italian eye can aspire. Carrots, turnips,
tomatoes, purple-headed cauliflowers, all the broccoli and many others to be observed are old
familiar friends, but who in England ever saw such gorgeous objects on a coster’s stall or
in a green-grocer’s shop as the yellow, scarlet and shining green pods of the peperoni, or
the banana-shaped egg-plants of iridescent purple, or the split pumpkins, revealing caverns
of saffron-hued pulp within? Truly, the Sorrentine market contains a feast of colour to satisfy
the craving of an artist!

At vintage time the whole Piano di Sorrento reeks with the vinous scent of the spilt juice,
that is carelessly thrown on to the stone-paved roads by the jolting of the country carts which
bring in the great wooden tubs, so that the very streets seem to run with the crimson ooze.
Slender youths in yet more slender clothing, with legs purple-stained from treading the grapes
(for in the South wine is still made on the primitive plan), are to be met with on all sides,
playing at their favourite game of bowls on the public road, in order to relieve their brains
of the pungent fumes of the fermenting grape juice. Nevertheless the warm autumn often extends
itself into a continuous St Martin’s summer, that lasts almost until the New Year, before skies
grow clouded and the snow-flakes descend upon the vineyards and the lava streams of Vesuvius.
Nothing can be pleasanter in fact than some of the long walks in a sharp exhilarating air,
and though days are short and nights are often chilly, one can sometimes linger on comfortably
in Sorrento, though it is as well to be prepared for departure in case of a sudden spell of
stormy weather, for winter sunshine is a necessity, not a luxury, on the Piano di Sorrento.

Unlike other towns upon the Bay of Naples, Sorrento is divided into two distinct portions;
the city on the cliffs, with its streets and squares, its cathedral and ancient walls, its
villas and gay gardens; and the Marina, lying at the mouth of the gorge below, close to the
water’s edge. The population of Upper Sorrento is agricultural and labouring, whilst that of
the lower consists entirely of fisher-folk and sailors; it is needless to add that the latter
are far less prosperous than their fellow-citizens who live over-head. Until recent times little
communication between these two sets of Sorrentines took place and intermarriages were rare,
for the sea-faring population only ascended to the town above and intermingled with the people
of Upper Sorrento on the great occasions of local festivals, such as the enthronement or funeral
of a bishop. Nor has the levelling spirit of the age as yet broken down the deep-rooted feeling
of local clannishness; although it cannot be long before time-honoured customs and prejudices
will be swept away in the tidal wave of modern development. One of the chief industries of
the place is the manufacture of scarves and sashes of rich silk woven in cross bars of strong
contrasting colours, so that the Sorrentine silk work strongly resembles the well-known Roman
variety. Equally popular with visitors are the various articles made of olive wood and decorated
in tarsia, the art of inlaying with pieces of stained wood, which is a speciality of the place.
There are two kinds of this Sorrentine inlaid work; one consisting of figures of peasants dancing
the tarantella, of Pompeian maidens in classical drapery, of contadini or priests bestriding
mules, and of similar local subjects; and the other, of fanciful patterns made up of tiny coloured
cubes of wood, much in the style of the old Roman stone mosaics. The designs employed vary
of course with the fashion of the day, for there is a local school of art supported by the
municipality, which professes to improve the tastes of the tarsiatori, but most persons will
certainly prefer the trite but characteristic patterns of the place.

But the main industry of Sorrento consists in the culture of the orange; and the dark groves,
covered with their globes of shining yellow fruit, “like golden lamps in a green light,” to
quote Andrew Marvell’s charming conceit, constitute the chief feature of its environs. Even
the coat-of-arms of the medieval city, showing a golden crown encircled by a wreath of the
dark glossy leaves, attests the antiquity of this industry here. The cultivation of the orange
in Southern Italy is by no means an easy pursuit, though under favourable conditions it may
prove a very lucrative one, even in a spot so subject to sudden changes of temperature as Sorrento
in winter time, when a continuance of severe weather, like that experienced around Naples in
the opening months of the year 1905, means total destruction of the fruit crop and temporary
ruin to the owners.

The fruit of commerce is propagated by means of grafting the sweet variety on to the stock
of the bitter orange—said on doubtful authority to be indigenous to this district—which is
fairly hardy and can be grown in the open as far north as Tuscany, so that every aranciaria
ought to possess a nursery of flourishing young sweet-orange shoots, ready in case of necessity.
For eight long years the grafted tree remains as a rule profitless, but having survived and
thriven so long, it then becomes a valuable asset to its proprietor for an indefinite period;—as
a proof of the longevity of the orange under normal conditions we may cite the famous tree
in a Roman convent garden, which on good authority is stated to have been planted by St Dominic
nearly six hundred years ago. As to the amount of fruit yielded, the growers of Sorrento commonly
aver that one good year, one bad year and one mediocre year constitute the general cycle in
the prospects of orange farming. Two crops are gathered annually, the principle one in December
and the other at Eastertide, the fruit produced by the later and smaller crop being far finer
in size and flavour than those of the Christmas harvest. Mandarin oranges are gathered on both
occasions, but the large luscious loose-skinned fruit of March and April—Portogalli as they
are commonly termed—are far superior to the small hard specimens that appear in December, and
seem to consist of little else than rind, scent and seeds. The oranges begin to form in spring
time, almost before the petals have fallen, when the peasants anxiously draw their conclusions
as to the expected yield. But however valuable the fruit, the wood of the tree is worthless
for commerce, except to make walking-sticks, or to serve the ignoble purpose of supplying hotels
and cafés with tooth-picks! Lemons, which are far more delicate than oranges and require to
be kept protected by screens and matting during the sharp winter nights, are less common at
Sorrento than on the warmer shores of the Bay of Baia or the sunny terraced slopes of the Amalfitan
coast.

With the ripening of the oranges on the trees appear those strange creatures from the wilds
of the Basilicata or Calabria, the Zampognari, who visit Naples and the surrounding district
in considerable numbers. They usually arrive about the date of the great popular festival of
the Immaculate Conception (December 8th) and remain until the end of the month, when they return
to their homes with well-filled purses. In outward aspect these strangers resemble the stage-brigands
that appear in such old-fashioned operas as Fra Diavolo, for they wear steeple-crowned hats
with coloured ribands depending, shaggy goat-skin trousers, crimson velvet waistcoats, blue
cloaks, sandalled feet and gartered legs. Their pale faces are unshorn, and their hair hangs
in great tawny masses over neck and ears, which are invariably adorned with golden rings. These
fellows come in pairs, one only, properly speaking, being the zampognaro, for it is he who
carries the zampogna or classical bag-pipe of Southern Italy, whilst his companion is the cennamellaro,
so called from his ear-splitting instrument, the cennamella, a species of primitive flute.
The zampogna may be described as first cousin to the historic bag-pipes of Caledonia, for the
sounds emitted strongly resemble the traditional “skirling” of the pipes; but no Scotchman
even could pretend to delight in the shrill notes of the cennamella. The former at least of
these two popular instruments of southern Italy was well known to the omniscient author of
the Shakespearean plays, for in Othello we have a direct allusion to the uncouth braying music
still made to-day by these outlandish musicians.

“Why, masters, have your instruments been in Naples, that they speak i’ the nose thus?... Are
these, I pray you, wind instruments?... Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I’ll away:
go; vanish into air; away!”

In the midst of their instrumental duet the two shaggy mountaineers are apt to break into a
harsh nasal hymn in honour of the Virgin, to visit whose shrines at this season of the orange
harvest is the main object of their Christmas migration to the Neapolitan shores. Very tastefully
decorated are many of the Madonna’s little sanctuaries in or near the orange groves, when the
arrival of the zampognari is considered imminent. The tiny lamps are well trimmed and shine
brightly, whilst heavy garlands composed of masses of bay or laurel or ilex leaves, interspersed
with some of the golden clusters of the ripening fruit are suspended round the alcove that
holds the figure of the Virgin. This effective but simple form of ornamentation will at once
suggest the beautiful glazed and coloured terra-cotta wreaths of fruit and foliage that are
to be seen so frequently in Tuscan churches; indeed, it is possible that the members of the
Della Robbia family may have originally borrowed the decorative schemes for their famous plaques
and lunettes from the rustic shrines thus simply but tastefully embellished. Nominally, the
two performers are supposed to sing and make music on nine different days at the houses of
all their patrons in order to make up the total number of the novena, but the extent of their
performances is generally calculated in accordance with the depth of the householder’s purse,
the sum given for their services varying from a few soldi to a five lire note. All classes
of society employ the zampognari, for it is with the first appearance of the lovely golden
fruit, essentially the winter fruit of the Italians, that the arrival of these picturesque
strangers has been associated from time immemorial. The zampognari are in fact as much of a
national institution with the Neapolitans at Christmastide as are the waits or carol-singers
in our own country, so that to the majority of these people Natale senza zampogna e cennamella
would seem no true Christmas at all.

Closely connected with the life of the people of the Piano di Sorrento is the famous dance
known as the Tarantella, which may be witnessed by the curious at almost any time—for money.
Even when performed by professional dancers, tricked out in spick and span stage-peasant finery,
the Tarantella is a most graceful exhibition of movement, although the dance naturally gains
in interest when it takes place in the days of vintage or on the popular festivals of the Church,
without the presence of largesse-giving strangers. The origin of the name has always puzzled
antiquarians, although in all probability the dance derives its curious appellation from the
Greek city of Taranto, whence the Tarentines introduced its steps and action into other parts
of Italy. But vulgar belief is very strong, so that this graceful dance is still closely associated
in the popular mind with the tarantula, a kind of poisonous spider found in the neighbourhood
of Taranto, the effects of whose bite are said to yield to violent exercise followed by profuse
perspiration. In order to excite the proper amount of exertion necessary for the cure, the
person afflicted, il tarantolato, is induced to leap and caper by the sound of music, with
the result that there exist a number of tunes specially connected with this wild species of
dancing. The real explanation of this fable seems to lie in the extremely excitable nature
of the Tarentines themselves, assisted by the exhilarating music and by frequent pulls at the
wine barrel. The two lines sung to the air of one of the tunes employed:

      “Non fu Taranta, ne fu Tarantella,
      Ma fu la vino della carratella:”

    (“It was neither the taranta, nor the tarantella, but it was the
    wine from the cask.”)

sums up pretty accurately the real cause of these strange Tarentine orgies, which have really
nothing whatever in common with the rhythmical dance that is still so popular in the environs
of Naples. Nevertheless the theory of tarantella and tarantismo has been gravely discussed
by old Italian writers, and a certain learned prelate of the fifteenth century, Niccolo Perotto,
Archbishop of Siponto, alludes to the malignant cause of this dance-cure as “a species of speckled
spider, dwelling in rents of the ground caused by excessive heat. It was not known in the time
of our fore-fathers, but now it is very common in Apulia ... and is generally called Tarantula.
Its bite seldom kills a man, yet it makes him half stupid, and affects him in a variety of
ways. Some, when a song or tune is heard, are so excited that they dance, full of joy and always
laughing, and do not stop till they are entirely exhausted; others spend a miserable life in
tears, as if bewailing the loss of friends. Some die laughing, and others in tears.”

Such is the curious legend concerning the origin of the Tarantella, which is still danced with
something of the old spirit by the holiday-making crowds of Naples, though it is at the festa
of San Michele, the patron of Procida, that the Tarantella can now be seen to best advantage.
Of the three islands that lie close to Naples, Procida is the least known or visited by strangers,
so that when the Tarantella is danced by the Procidani, the old-fashioned popular orchestra
is employed to give the necessary music. This consists of five quaint instruments (obviously
of Oriental origin as their counterparts can still be seen amongst the Kabyles of Northern
Africa): the first being a fife (siscariello); the second a tin globe covered with skin pierced
by a piece of cane (puti-puti); the third a wooden saw and a split stick, making a primitive
bow and fiddle (scetavaiasse); the fourth an arrangement of three wooden mallets, that are
rattled together like a gigantic pair of bones (tricca-ballache); and the fifth a Jew’s harp
(scaccia-pensieri). A tarantella danced to the accompaniment of so weird a medley of instruments
and by real peasants full of gaiety is naturally a thing altogether diverse from the stilted,
though graceful and decorous performance that can be observed any day for payment in a Sorrentine
or Neapolitan hotel; yet it must ever be borne in mind that the Tarantella proper, whether
danced con amore by Procidan peasants or performed for lucre by costumed professionals, is
no vulgar frenzied can-can, but a musical love-dance expressive of primitive courtship.

“The Tarantella is a choregraphic love-story, the two dancers representing an enamoured swain
and his mistress. It is the old theme—‘the quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love.’ Enraptured
gaze, coy side-look, gallant advance, timid retrocession, impassioned declaration, supercilious
rejection, piteous supplication, softening hesitation; worldly goods oblation, gracious acceptation;
frantic jubilation, maidenly resignation. Petting, wooing, billing, cooing. Jealous accusation,
sharp recrimination, manly expostulation, shrewish aggravation; angry threat, summary dismissal.
Fuming on one side, pouting on the other. Reaction, approximation, exclamation, exoneration,
reconciliation, osculation, winding up with a grand pas de circomstance, expressive of confidence
re-established and joy unbounded. That’s about the figure of it; but no word-painting can give
an idea of the spirit, the ‘go’ of the tarantella when danced for love and not for money.”(9)

On a modest scale Sorrento can lay claim to be called an eternal city, for the Surrentum of
the ancient Romans was a place of no small importance, filled with villas of wealthy citizens
and boasting a fair-sized population, as its numerous remains of antiquity can easily testify;
whilst its crumbling ivy-clad walls and towers point to its prosperity during the Middle Ages,
when Sorrento shared the political fortunes of Naples. It is now a busy thriving little cathedral
town, and the possessor of silk and tarsia work industries, so that like Imperial Rome it can
boast a continuous existence as a city from remote times to the present day. Its chief local
Saint—for what Italian town does not boast a special patron?—is Sant’ Antonio, whose most famous
feat is said to have been the administering of a severe drubbing to Sicardo, Duke of Benevento,
for daring to interfere with the liberties of his city in the ninth century. It would appear
from the legend that all arguments as to ancient rights, the quality of mercy and the honour
of keeping faith having been vainly exhausted upon the cruel and obstinate prince, Bishop Antonio
came forward with a stout cudgel and belaboured the tyrant in order to obtain a favourable
answer to the people’s petition. The sanctity of the pugnacious prelate and the force of this
argumentum ad baculum were evidently too much for the Duke of Benevento, who at once conceded
the popular demands, whilst Antonio’s name has deservedly descended to posterity as the capable
protector of his native city.

                               * * * * * *

But the name which above all others Sorrento will cherish as her own, “so long as men shall
read and eyes can see,” is that of the famous Italian poet, Torquato Tasso, whose interesting
but melancholy life-story is closely associated with this, the town of his birth. Tasso is
reckoned as the fourth greatest bard of Italy, ranking after Dante and Petrarch, and being
esteemed on a level with rather than below his rival and contemporary, Ludovico Ariosto. In
one sense however he may be described as the most truly national poet of this immortal quartet,
for his career is connected with his native country as a whole, rather than with any one of
the little cities or states then comprising that “geographical expression” which is now the
Kingdom of Italy. His father’s family was of Lombard origin, having been long settled in the
neighbourhood of Bergamo, where a crumbling hill-set fortress known as the Montagno del Tasso
still recalls the name of the poet’s ancestors. His mother, Porzia de’ Rossi, was Tuscan by
birth, her family haling from Pistoja at the foot of the Apennines, but owning property near
Naples; whilst the poet himself was destined to spend his years of childhood at Sorrento and
at Naples, his youth at Rome and Verona, his brilliant period of fame and prosperity at Ferrara
and the Lombard courts, and again some of his closing years of disgrace and disappointment
amidst the familiar scenes of his infancy. Of good ancient stock the Tassi owed their acquisition
of wealth to the re-establishment of the system of posting throughout Northern Italy in the
thirteenth century, when the immediate progenitor of the poet, one Omodeo de’ Tassi, was nominated
comptroller, and it is curious to note that owing to this circumstance the arms of the family
containing the posthorn and the badger’s skin—Tasso is the Italian for badger—continued to
be borne for many centuries upon the harness of all Lombard coach-horses. Torquato’s father,
Bernardo Tasso, himself a poet of no mean calibre and the composer of a scholarly but somewhat
prolix work, the Amadigi, formed for many years a prominent member of that brilliant band of
literary courtiers within the castle of Vittoria Colonna, the Lady of Ischia, of whom we shall
speak more fully in another place. But for the overwhelming and all-eclipsing fame of his distinguished
son, Bernardo might have been able to claim a high place in the list of Italian writers of
the Renaissance; as it was, the father’s undoubted talents were quickly forgotten in the blaze
of his own beloved “Tassino’s” popularity, so that he is now chiefly remembered as the sire
of a poetic genius, as one of the great Vittoria’s favourite satellites and as the author of
an oft-quoted sonnet to his intellectual mistress. Bernardo Tasso did not marry until the somewhat
mature age of forty-seven, when, as we have already said, he espoused the daughter of the Tuscan
house of Rossi, by whom he had two children; a daughter, Cornelia, and the immortal Torquato,
who was born in 1544, three years before the death of the divine poetess of Ischia.

But Bernardo was not merely a bard and a courtier, for he was also, unfortunately for himself
and his ill-fated family, a keen politician in an age when politics offered anything but a
safe pursuit, and as his views invariably coincided with those of his chief friend and patron,
the head of the powerful Sanseverino family, Tasso the Elder found himself in course of time
an exile from Neapolitan territory on account of his dislike of the new Spanish masters of
Naples. The poet-politician therefore took up his abode at Rome, whilst his wife and two young
children continued to reside at Naples and Sorrento. The boy was a born student, almost an
infant prodigy of learning, and so great was his desire for knowledge that he would insist
upon rising long before it was day-light, and would even make his way to school through the
dark dirty streets of Naples, conducted by a servant with a torch in his hand. The Jesuits,
who had just set up their first academy at Naples, soon discovered in the future poet an ideal
pupil, and not only did they impart to the child all the lore of ancient Greece and Rome, but
they also imbued his mind, at an age when it was “wax to receive and marble to retain,” with
their own peculiar theological tenets. It is obvious indeed that the faith implanted by the
Fathers in his tender years was largely, if not wholly answerable for the unswerving belief
and firm religious convictions that ever stood Tasso in good stead throughout the whole of
his chequered career. “Give me a child of seven years old,” had once declared the great Founder
of the Society of Jesus, “and I care not who has the after-handling of him”; and in this case
the Jesuit professors did not fail to carry out Loyola’s precept. But his home life with his
mother, whom he loved devotedly, and his course of study at the Jesuit school were suddenly
interrupted when he was barely ten years of age, for the elder Tasso was anxious for his little
son to join him in Rome, there to be educated under his own eye. The boy left his mother, but
after his departure the Rossi family brutally refused to allow their sister access to her absent
husband, who had lately been declared a rebel against the Spanish government and deprived of
his estates. Thus persecuted by her unfeeling brothers, Porzia Tasso sought refuge together
with Cornelia in a Neapolitan convent, where, deprived of her erratic but beloved husband and
pining for her absent son, the poor woman died of a broken heart a year or two later. As for
Cornelia, she became affianced when of a marriageable age to a gentleman of Sorrento, the Cavaliere
Marzio Sersale, and consequently returned to live in the home of her childhood.

Of Tasso’s many adventures, of his universal literary fame, of the honours heaped upon him
by his chief patron, Duke Alfonso of Ferrara, and of his subsequent disgrace and imprisonment
for daring to lift his eyes in love to a princess of the haughty House of Este, we have no
space to speak here. Let it suffice to say that he was one of the most charming, virtuous,
brilliant, manly figures, as he was also almost the last true representative, of the great
Italian Renaissance, the end of which may be described as coinciding with his decease. Twice
only however did Tasso revisit the city of his birth, and each return home was occasioned by
deep tragedy. In 1577, wounded by the attacks of his literary rivals and humiliated by the
Duke Alfonso’s discovery of his infatuation for the Princess Leonora d’Este, the unhappy poet
travelled southward, reaching Sorrento in the disguise of a shepherd. Making his way to the
Casa Sersale, the house of his sister, now a widow with two sons, Torquato passed himself off
as his own messenger, and so eloquently did he relate the story of his own grief and wrongs,
that the tender-hearted Cornelia fainted away at this recital. Having satisfied his mind as
to his sister’s genuine affection, the pseudo-shepherd now revealed his true character, whereupon
the pair embraced with transports of joy, though it was deemed prudent not to acquaint their
friends with the arrival of Torquato, who was represented to the good people of Sorrento as
a distant relative from Bergamo. Cornelia Sersale now entreated the poet to take up his abode
permanently in her house, and to forget the rebuffs of the cruel world without in the enjoyment
of family ties and affections; and well would it have been for Torquato, had he accepted his
sister’s advice and passed the succeeding years in simple rural pleasures. But restless and
inconsequent despite all his virtues, the poet must needs return to Ferrara to bask in the
presence of his beloved Leonora, with the dire and undignified result that all the world knows.
Tasso’s second visit took place not long before his death, when his strength was rapidly failing,
so that it seems strange that he did not decide to end his days amidst these lovely and well-remembered
scenes of his early boyhood, instead of deliberately choosing for the last stage of his earthly
journey the Roman convent of Sant’ Onofrio, where the death-chamber and various pathetic relics
of the poet are still pointed out.

Students of Tasso’s immortal epic are apt to overlook the immense influence exercised on its
author by his early Sorrentine days and surroundings. The Gerusalemme Liberata contains, as
we know, a full account of the First Crusade and constitutes an apotheosis of Godfrey de Bouillon,
first Christian King of Jerusalem; but it is also something more than a mere poetical description
of a departed age of chivalry. For there can be little doubt that the poet aspired to be the
singer of a new movement which should wrest back the Holy City from the clutches of the Saracens,
and set a second Godfrey upon the vacant throne of Palestine. To this important end the experiences
of his infancy and his training by the Jesuits had undoubtedly tended to urge the precocious
young poet. The servants of his father’s house at Sorrento must many a time have regaled his
eager boyish mind with harrowing tales of the infidel pirates who scoured the Tyrrhene Sea
within sight of the watch-towers on the coast; within ken, perchance, of Casa Tasso itself,
perched on the commanding cliff above the waters. Scarcely a family dwelling on the Marina
below but was mourning one or more of its members that had been seized by the blood-thirsty
marauders, perhaps to be brutally slain on the spot or to languish in the dungeons of Tripoli
and Smyrna, eking out a life of slavery that was far worse than death itself. Stories of tortured
Christians, like that of the pious Geronimo of Algiers who was tied with cords and flung into
a mass of soft concrete, were common enough topics among the Sorrentine folk, all of whom lived
in constant dread of a successful raid by the Barbary pirates. For, despite the efforts of
the great Emperor Charles the Fifth to protect his maritime subjects, the swift galleys of
Tunis and Tripoli out-stripped the Imperial men-of-war, and continued to carry on their vile
commerce of slavery. Such a state of terrorism must have appeared intolerable to the highly
romantic, deeply religious spirit of the young poet; and his Jesuit preceptors, working on
the boy’s imagination, were soon able to instil into his youthful brain the notion of a new
Crusade which would not only sweep the infidel ships from off the Italian seas, but would also
recapture the Holy City itself. The Church, beginning at last to recover from the effects of
Luther’s schism, was once more in a position to re-assert its ancient authority over Catholic
Christendom, and in Torquato Tasso it found an able trumpeter to call together the scattered
forces of the Faithful, and to reunite them in a holy war. Astonished and delighted, all Italy
was swept by the golden torrent of Tasso’s impassioned verses, that were intended to urge the
Catholic princes of Europe to the inauguration of a new Crusade. Nor were the times unpropitious
for such an event. Tunis, that hot-bed of infidelity, piracy and iniquity, was in the hands
of the Christians; and the fleets of the Soldan had been well-nigh annihilated by Don John
of Austria at the glorious battle of Lepanto:—to convince a doubting and hesitating world that
the actual moment had come wherein to recover the city of Jerusalem was the main object of
the author of the Gerusalemme Liberata. And it was his infancy spent upon this smiling but
pirate-harassed coast that was chiefly responsible for this desired end in the epic of the
Crusades; it was Tasso’s early acquaintance with the Bay of Naples, combined with his special
training by the Jesuits, that forced the poet’s genius and ambition into this particular channel.

It is pleasant to think that Sorrento is still appreciative of its honour as the birth-place
of the great Italian poet. The citizens have erected a statue of marble in one of their open
spaces; they have called street, hotel and trattoria by his illustrious name; and can the modern
spirit of grateful acknowledgment go further than this? His father’s house has perished, it
is true, through “Nature’s changing force untrimmed,” for the greedy waves have undermined
and swallowed up the tufa cliff which once supported the old Tasso villa. But there is still
standing in Strada di San Nicola the old Sersale mansion, wherein the good Cornelia received
her long-lost brother in his peasant’s guise, an unhappy exile from haughty Ferrara. Of more
interest however than the old town house of the Sersale family is the ancient farm, known as
the Vigna Sersale, which once belonged to Donna Cornelia, and supplied her household with wine
and oil. It is a lovely sequestered spot lying on the breezy hill-side not far down the Massa
road, facing towards Capri and the sunset. Hallowed by its historic connection with the poet
and his devoted sister, the Vigna Sersale can claim perhaps to be one of the most interesting
and beautiful places of literary pilgrimage upon earth. Ascending by the steep pathway that
leads upward from the broad high road, it is not long before we reach the old podere, amidst
whose olive groves and vineyards the poet was wont to sit dreamily gazing at the glorious view
before him. Here are the same ancient spreading stone-pines, the same gnarled olive trees that
sheltered the gentle love-lorn poet, whilst Cornelia and her sons sate beside him in the shade,
endeavouring—alas! only too vainly—by their caresses to detain the roving Torquato in their
midst. Could not, we ask ourselves, the erratic poet have been content to remain in this spot,
“in questa terra alma e felice” as he himself styles it, instead of plunging once more into
the dangers and dissipation of that Vanity Fair of distant Ferrara? Why could he not have brooded
over his ill-starred infatuation for the high-born Leonora in this soothing corner of the earth,
allowing its quiet and beauty to sink into his soul, until the recollection of his Innamorata
declined gradually into a fragrant memory that could be embalmed in never-dying verse? But
like his own favourite hero, the Christian King of Jerusalem, the poet must in his inmost heart
have preferred a changing storm-tossed life to the ideal existence of rustic ease; and had
he not returned to the treacherous splendours of Alfonso’s court, how much less entrancing
would his own life-story have appeared to after ages! Unconsciously he seems to have composed
his own epitaph in describing Godfrey’s death; for the crusading king lived and died like a
true Christian knight, for whom the world has afforded many adventures, and but few intervals
of peace until the final call to endless rest.

  “Vivesti qual guerrier cristiano e santo,
  E come bel sei morto: ei godi, e pasci
  In Dio gli occhi bramosi, o felice alma,
  Ed hai del ben oprar corona e palma.”

                                CHAPTER XI

                      CAPRI AND TIBERIUS THE TYRANT

Lying between the classic capes of Misenum and Minerva, the island of Capri appears like a
couched lion, guarding the entrance of the Bay of Naples; his majestic head being formed by
the stupendous cliffs of the Salto that face the sunrise, whilst his back and loins are represented
by the long broad slope which stretches from the summit of Monte Solaro to the most westerly
headland of Vitareta. Nor is it only as a guardian to their Bay that Capri serves the Neapolitans,
for it also presents them with a gigantic natural barometer. In fine settled weather a soft
haze invariably lies over the sea, so that Capri is only faintly visible from the shores of
Parthenope, save at sunrise and sunset, when for a short time the graceful form of the islet
looms out clear-cut like a jagged amethyst upon a sapphire bed; but before rain or storm it
yields up its inmost secrets to the public gaze of Naples. The northern Marina, the towns of
Capri and Ana-Capri, even the little terraced fields become discernible to the naked eye: “It
will be wet to-morrow” augur the weather-wise of Naples, and the prediction is rarely falsified.

It is an easy matter to cross from Sorrento to the island, whether it be by the little steamer
that plies daily between Naples and Capri, putting in at Sorrento on its journeys backwards
and forwards, or—far pleasanter if somewhat slower way—by engaging a boat with four rowers,
who on a calm day ought to make the Marina of Capri in less than two hours. Nothing can be
more delightful or exhilarating than this old-fashioned method of transit; and it gives also
a feeling of superiority over less enterprising persons who prefer the quicker passage on a
smoky steamer, crammed with tourists and attendant touts. It is the very morning for a row
on the cool glassy water, as we step joyfully into our boat with its four stalwart Phrygian-capped
sailors in attendance:

  “Con questo zeffiro
    Cosi soave,
  Oh, com’ e bello
    Star su la nave!
  Mare si placido,
    Vento si caro,
  Scordar fa i triboli
    Al marinaro.”

Bending with a will to their oars, our genial mariners quickly impel our barque round the first
jutting headland, so that the thickly populated Piano di Sorrento is at once lost to view.
Making good headway over the clear water, it is not long before we find ourselves passing beneath
the wave-washed precipices of the Salto, and well within our time limit of two hours we reach
the roadstead of the Marina, to find ourselves in a bright and busy world of traffic and pleasure.
Between the houses coloured coral-pink, white, blue, and yellow, and the pale green transparent
water lies a long stretch of beach covered with every sort of craft that sails the Mediterranean,
and with a motley crowd of fishermen, tourists and noisy children; whilst the whole atmosphere
rings with raucous voices raised in giving directions, in quarrelling, or in addressing the
many perplexed strangers. We disembark, and cross the intervening beach with its sea-weed veiled
boulders and masses of tawny fishing nets; we reach the village, and here we meet with our
first disappointment in romantic Capri. It was not so very many years ago, barely thirty in
point of fact, that this island was roadless, and in those primitive days the visitor was met
at the Marina Grande by tall strapping Capriote women, who were wont to seize the traveller’s
pieces of baggage as though they had been light parcels, and to march up the old stone staircase
poising these burdens on their heads with the carriage of an empress. The stranger’s own entrance
into Capri was less dignified, for either he had to toil painfully in the blazing sun up that
steep picturesque flight of steps and reach the plateau above, perspiring and probably out
of temper; or else he was compelled to bestride a miserable ass which a bare-footed damsel
steered upward by means of the quadruped’s tail. Nowadays, we are spared this original and
somewhat humiliating manner of arrival at our journey’s end. There are little carrozzelle,
drawn by clever black Abruzzi cobs awaiting us, and even one or two hotel conveyances. We find
ourselves being driven rapidly up the excellent winding road constructed only a quarter of
a century ago, past the domed Church of San Costanzo, the patron Saint of the Caprioti, past
hedges of aloe and prickly pear, until we gain the saddle of the island-mountain, where stands
the small capital perched upon a ledge that overlooks the Bay of Naples to the north, and to
the south the endless expanse of the unruffled Tyrrhene.

It is evident even to the most casual untrained eye, that this huge mass of sea-girt rock whereon
we stand must in remote ages have formed part of the mainland opposite, until some fierce convulsion
of nature, common enough in this region that is ever changing its outward face through subterranean
forces, tore what is now Capri asunder from the Punta della Campanella, and placed the sea
as an eternal barrier between the riven headlands of continent and new-formed island. The charm
of this rocky fragment, thus placed in mid ocean by volcanic action, was first discovered by
the great Emperor Augustus, who chancing to visit the island for some obscure reason was greatly
affected by the spectacle of a withered ilex tree, that revived and burst into foliage at the
auspicious moment of his setting foot at the Marina. Flattered at the compliment paid by Nature’s
self to his august presence and drawing a happy omen from the incident, the Emperor at once
proposed to the people of Neapolis, who then owned the island, that they should exchange barren
Capreae for the larger and more fertile imperial appanage of Aenaria (Ischia)—a bargain to
which the shrewd Neapolitans readily agreed. Here then in a spot at once so salubrious and
so convenient for the management of affairs of state, the Emperor sought rest and relaxation
at such times as he could escape the cares of government. At his bidding villas and pleasaunces
were constructed; roads were carried by means of viaducts across the airy plateau lying between
the Salto and the Solaro; and the able bodied inhabitants of the island were enrolled as a
sort of honorary bodyguard for the person of Augustus during his occasional visits. In this
secluded, yet accessible retreat, the ruler of the Roman world could easily lay his finger,
as it were, upon the beating pulse of his mighty empire, for Capreae was at no great distance
from Rome itself, and from the heights of the island note could be made of the movements of
the Imperial fleet lying at Baiae or of the arrival of the corn ships from Egypt and Asia Minor.
But the name of the good Augustus is scarcely remembered in connection with Capreae, which
alone recalls its association with Tiberius the Tyrant, who spent the last nine years of his
reign upon the rocky islet that was so beloved of his predecessor. To this spot “Timberio”
(as the natives invariably misname the Emperor) feeling the rapid approach of senile decay,
weary of the thankless task of ruling an ungrateful people, sick of family dissensions and
of court intrigue, at last came in the cherished hope of spending the few remaining years of
his life in cultured leisure and in comparative solitude. An enthusiastic student of astronomy
and of its sister science, or rather pseudo-science, astrology, Tiberius proposed to study
the heavens in the company of chosen mathematicians and soothsayers. Twelve buildings—palaces,
villas, pavilions, call them what you will—were now constructed for the special examination
of the planets, and in consequence the whole of the island, whose limited area after all is
exceeded by many an English park, was practically turned into one vast maritime residence,
for all the Imperial pleasure-houses seem to have been connected with each other by means of
viaducts or secret stair-ways. Yet whilst immersed in astronomy and occultism, the aged Emperor
contrived to find time for the routine of public business, and, like Augustus, he was still
able to direct from his rocky retreat the policy of the Empire. The reports of governors of
provinces, for example, were received, read, and commented upon by Tiberius in his Capriote
home, and amongst these there must have been included a certain official document from one
Pontius Pilatus, Procurator of Judaea, relating how a Jewish prophet from Nazareth had been
condemned, scourged and crucified by his orders at the special request of the Jews themselves.
How eloquent is this bald statement of a simple fact, that here in this tiny barren islet was
brought the casual news of the death of Jesus Christ to the then ruler of the Roman world!
Surely an historical incident such as this is of more value than all the hazy legends or pointless
miracles of St Januarius or of San Costanzo, upon which the imagination of the islanders has
been fed for generations.

Remnants of Tiberius’ palaces, all of which are said to have been razed to the ground by order
of the Roman Senate at his death, are scattered thick as fallen leaves in Vallombrosa over
the whole surface of the island, and it is to the ruins of the Villa Jovis at its eastern crest
that the visitor will in all probability first direct his steps. The way thither from the little
city of Capri leads through narrow lanes along a stony but populous hill-side, to which the
flat-roofed dazzling white houses with their small iron-barred windows lend an oriental aspect;
an illusion that is aided by the appearance of an occasional date-palm over-topping some low
wall, and by clumps or hedges of the prickly pear. This latter plant, of Indian extraction
as its name of Ficus Indica betrays, grows in profusion over the sun-baked rocky slopes of
southern Italy, especially in the neighbourhood of the sea. The peasants find it most useful,
for it makes impenetrable hedges, and its coarse pulpy leaves when pounded up afford good provender
for their goats and donkeys. The fruits of the prickly pear, those quaint crimson or yellow
knobs attached to the edges of the leaves, are likewise gathered and eaten by the people, or
else cleaned of their protecting layers of spiny hairs and despatched in baskets to Naples,
where the cactus-fruit forms an important item of the popular fare. The fruit itself has a
lovely colour and a fragrant scent, which give promise of a better flavour than it actually
possesses, for it is hopelessly insipid to the taste, although the Neapolitans declare that
the pulp, when mashed up into patties and iced, is very palatable.

A long up-hill ramble over rough paths leads eventually to the Villa of Jupiter, perched on
the Salto—the Saltus Caprearum, the “Wild Goats’ Leap,” of the ancients. There is little of
interest to be seen in the existing portions of Tiberius’ chief villa, for the building has
been despoiled centuries ago of its rich marbles, its slabs of giallo and verde antico, its
pillars of red porphyry and serpentino, some fragments of which may be found imbedded in the
pavement of the mosque-like little Duomo of Capri. But it is evident from the immense extent
of its substructures, now used for humble enough purposes, that the Villa Jovis must have been
a palace of remarkable size. A hermit who offers sour wine, a fat middle-aged woman, a figure
of fun in her gay be-ribboned dress who begins languidly dancing a tarantella, and a vulgar
pestilent guide who produces a spy-glass usually haunt these caverns on the look-out for any
chance visitor. Buy them off, O stranger! with soldi, is our advice, for you cannot otherwise
escape their importunities, and then mounting to the highest point, peer down into the clear
depths of the water nearly a thousand feet below. For it was here, if we can credit serious
Roman historians, that the Imperial tyrant, half crazy with terror and ever thirsting for human
blood, was wont to hurl the objects of his hate into the sea; “from this eminence,” Suetonius
gravely tells us, “after the application of long drawn-out and exquisite tortures, Tiberius
used to order his executioners to fling their victims before his eyes into the water, where
boats full of mariners, stationed below, were waiting in readiness to beat the bruised bodies
with oars, in case any spark of life might yet be left in them.” The terrible legend fits in
aptly with the appearance of this forbidding dizzy precipice, especially on a dark stormy afternoon,
when the dull roar of the waves dashing against the cliffs below, mounts upward to the Villa
Jovis like the angry bellowing of some insatiable sea-monster.

It was whilst brooding here after the death of Sejanus in Rome, that the Emperor, not daring
to move beyond the walls of his palace, shunning the society of all save his familiar friends
and attendants, and with his face disfigured by an eruption of the skin of which he was painfully
sensitive, that there took place an incident (which may or may not be true) mentioned by Suetonius.
In the privacy of this villa Tiberius was one day surprised by an ingenious Capriote fisherman,
who in ignorance or defiance of the Emperor’s wishes had managed to scale with his naked feet
the steep cliffs from the sea below, in order to present a fine mullet for the imperial table,
and of course to earn a high reward for his “gift.” Terrified at the mere notion of anybody
being able thus to penetrate into his most secret domain, the irate Emperor at once gave orders
for the intruder’s face to be scrubbed with the mullet he had brought, a sentence that the
imperial minions performed without delay. The intrepid fisherman might have congratulated himself
on so mild a punishment for having disturbed a tyrant’s repose, had he not been possessed of
an unusually strong sense of humour. For at the close of the mullet-scrubbing episode, the
foolish fellow remarked by way of a jest to the officer on duty, that he was thankful he had
not also offered the emperor a large crab which he had likewise brought in his basket. This
imprudent speech was immediately reported to Tiberius, who thereupon commanded the man’s face
to be lacerated with the aforesaid crab’s claws; but whether this pleasing incident ended with
a cold plunge from the Salto, the Roman historian does not relate.

Other tales of Timberio’s vices and cruelties have been handed down from generation to generation,
so that the dark deeds committed at the Salto have almost passed into a local article of faith;
and such being the case, it would seem almost a pity to pronounce these picturesque horrors
untrue or exaggerated. Nevertheless, of recent years there has arisen amongst scholars a certain
degree of scepticism as regards these highly coloured anecdotes of Roman historians known to
be prejudiced. The Emperor was nearly seventy years old at the time he came to reside in Capreae,
and until that date his life had been orderly and above reproach; it is not likely therefore,
argue these modern writers, that Tiberius should suddenly, at so extreme an age, have flung
himself into a whirl of vices and crimes that he had hitherto shunned. The thing is of course
possible, but it sounds improbable. That he was moody and morose; that he loved solitude and
hated formal society in the spot he had especially chosen as the retreat of his declining years;
that he practised certain of the mystic arts, as well as studied astronomy, are all likely
enough conjectures; and these circumstances probably formed the foundation for the extravagant
legends which now surround the Emperor’s memory. Very shocking and reprehensible were the doings
at Villa Jovis, if they really occurred there, but to try and dispute their authenticity would
be a task quite outside the scope of this work.(10)

If, despite the negative theories held to-day concerning the private life and character of
the second Emperor of Rome during his residence on Capreae, the traveller be still inclined
to trace the sites of the remaining eleven Imperial villas, he will find little difficulty
in meeting with numberless Roman remains scattered over all parts of the island. On the beach,
for example, a little to the west of the Marina Grande, are clearly visible the sunken foundations
of the great sea-palace, which in the Roman manner jutted into the water and ranked probably
second in size to the Villa Jovis. The neighbourhood of Ana-Capri also, and in fact the whole
western portion of the island, is likewise plentifully besprinkled with ancient ruins, one
of which is still known by the suggestive title of Timberino. But most people will prefer to
explore the unrivalled natural beauties of Capri, rather than to make themselves acquainted
with its archaeological points of interest.

First and foremost of the many wonders that Capri has to show must be ranked the Grotta Azzurra.
The pleasantest way of reaching this world-famous cavern is by small boat from the Marina,
rather than by the daily steamer from Naples; and a perfectly calm and bright morning must
be selected for the expedition, for if the surface of the sea appears in the least degree ruffled
by northerly winds, it becomes impossible for any craft to make the low entrance of the grotto.
Capriote boatmen are as a rule intelligent and pleasant to deal with, and not a few of the
denizens of the Marina own to some knowledge of English, or rather of American, since several
of the inhabitants are the sons of emigrants who have settled in the cities of the United States
or the Argentine, but whose love for their island home is still so strong that they contrive
to send their children back to Capri, in order that they may retain their Italian citizenship
and be ready to serve their expected term of years in the Army.

Past the gay-coloured shipping of the noisy Marina, past the wave-washed halls of Tiberius’
palazzo a mare, our boat swiftly glides over the pellucid expanse until it reaches those vast
towering cliffs of limestone that spring almost perpendicular from the waters’ edge to the
plateau of Ana-Capri, fully a thousand feet above our heads. Clumps of palmetto, of cytizus,
and of various hardy shrubs manage to sprout and to exist in the crannies of this sheer wall
of rock; and on some of the larger ledges, far out of reach of a despoiling human hand, we
see masses of the odorous narcissus, though whence they draw their sustenance it is hard to
tell. At length we reach the entrance of the Grotto, and here, at a signal from our boatman,
we crouch down low in the body of the boat, whilst our rower, skilfully taking advantage of
a gentle surging wave, guides our craft with his hands through an opening in the sheer wall,
so low that the gunwales grate against the rocky surface of the natural arch. At once we find
ourselves in a scene of mystical beauty, in an extravagant voluptuous dream of loveliness,
such as the Arabian Nights alone could dare to suggest. Above us, around us, behind us, before
us lies a luminous azure atmosphere, which produces the effect of a gigantic molten sapphire,
whose secret blue fires we have actually tracked to their lurking-place in the very heart of
the gem. Against the all-pervading shimmering light our own forms stand out distinct of an
intense and velvety blackness, yet the blades of the oars that cleave the melted sapphire of
the water, the tips of our fingers that dabble in the celestial liquid, appear as if coated
with tiny globules of silver. Our boatman’s son, a picturesque lad of fifteen or there-abouts,
has, we notice, been engaged in hastily casting off his scanty attire; for a moment his slight
graceful figure is outlined against the blue light like some antique bronze of Pompeii or Herculaneum,
and then there is a splash as the youthful form, diving into the pool, is instantaneously changed
by the genius of the place into a silver-glistening sea-god, the very image of the fisherman
Glaucus sung of old by Ovid, who became an Immortal and dwelt ever afterwards, according to
the ancient myth, in an azure palace beneath the sea. As the stripling rises to the surface
all glittering to breathe the air, his head turns from frosted silver to ebon blackness, as
does likewise his hand, raised from the water to clasp the boat’s prow. Slowly we are propelled
round the lofty domed cavern, and are shown the little beach at its further extremity with
its mysterious and unexplored flight of stone steps, down which, so our mariner informs us,
the wicked Timberio used to descend from his villa at Damecuta, hundreds of feet overhead,
to take a plunge in these enchanted waters. The Emperor and his friends may or may not have
gambolled in this jewelled bath; but certain it is that Tiberius knew of the existence of this
unique cavern; and equally certain that an artistic but demented potentate of our own days
was so smitten with the idea of owning a secret staircase descending to a blue grotto, that
he must needs construct within the walls of a fantastic castle in the highlands of Bavaria
an artificial counterpart of the Grotta Azzurra, with metal swans moved by clockwork swimming
thereon!

Our genial boatman beguiles the time of our returning by a long story, told him in his boyhood
by his old grandfather, of how two English Signori had managed to rediscover the entrance to
the Blue Grotto, which had been lost since the days of the Emperor Timberio, and how in expectation
of the Englishmen’s reward a plucky sailor, named Ferrara, had made his way all round the island
in a cask, trying to force an entrance into every possible cavern, until at last he hit upon
the mouth of the Grotta Azzurra itself, and thus gained the prize. But as a matter of fact
the existence of the Grotto was never wholly forgotten, for its beauties were certainly known
to the old Italian chronicler Capaccio. Yet doubtless during the long period of the Napoleonic
wars, when Capri from its strategic position became a choice bone of contention between French,
English and Neapolitan forces, there were few if any persons who possessed the courage or curiosity
to visit the cavern; with the result that its exact locality became temporarily lost. It was
known, however, to exist somewhere at the base of the great northern cliff, so that only a
very small portion of the coast-line had to be explored, before its tiny inconspicuous entrance
could be rediscovered. A far more exciting event than the refinding of the Blue Grotto was
the genuine discovery of the beautiful Grotta Verde on the southern side of the island by two
Englishmen, Mr Reid and Mr Lacaita, in the summer of 1848. This grotto, esteemed the second
in importance of the many caves that Capri boasts, consists of a huge natural archway formed
in the cliffs wherein the water and rocks appear of an emerald hue, contrasting strangely with
the opaque blue of the sea beyond, and suggesting in its dual colouring the marvellous combination
of dark blue and iridescent green in the peacock’s tail.

Capri is a pleasant enough place of residence for a short time, particularly if one invests
in a pair of the rope-soled shoes affected by the people, which enables the wearer to follow
with greater ease the rough stony tracks, often at a dizzy height above the sea, that form
the only walks in the eastern portion of Capri, except the villa-lined Tragara road leading
to the Guardiola, now become the fashionable promenade of the many foreign residents upon the
island. There are some delightfully peaceful nooks to be sought near the water’s edge, not
far from the Faraglioni, that picturesque trio of rocks lying off the south-eastern corner
of Capri. Here we can find a sheltered corner, unfrequented alike by the pestering native or
by the ubiquitous tourist; perchance the deserted hall of some maritime villa, for the caverns
near the Piccola Marina abound in traces of Roman architecture. In such a retreat, with a book
on one’s knees and with one’s own thoughts for sole company, how fascinating it is to lie

  “... on Capri’s rocks, close to their snowy streak
  Of ambient foam, and watch the restless sea
  Tossing and tumbling to Eternity,
  Feeling its salt kiss fall upon the cheek.”

But to those who prefer to take long tramps afield rather than to linger in meditation on the
sunny beaches near the Piccola Marina, there is always the ascent to Ana-Capri by the broad
smooth winding road that affords a fresh view of the Bay of Naples at every one of its many
twists and turnings. Over a ravine filled with masses of ilex and myrtle; past the fragment
of the pirate Barbarossa’s aerial castle, perched on a rocky pinnacle and looking like some
fantastic creation of Gustave Doré’s brush; the broad ribband of road leads across the steep
northern flank of Monte Solaro, until it ends at Ana-Capri with its white houses nestling round
a domed church. It is an easy ascent, taking no great space of time, yet strange to relate,
well within living memory the only approach to this hill-set village was by means of the interminable
stone staircase with some five hundred steps that connected it with the Marina Grande below.
A charming writer on Neapolitan life and character thus shrewdly sums up the general opinion
concerning this altered aspect of conditions with regard to Ana-Capri, now brought at last
into close touch with modern civilization and its accruing benefits:

“Before the culminating point is reached, the road crosses the old staircase, which has unfortunately
been almost completely destroyed by the huge masses of rock dislodged from the cliff above
by the workmen. It makes one sad to look at it, and almost regret that the new road ever was
constructed. Were every invective that has been vented on those same steps turned into a paving-stone,
there would be more than sufficient to pave the streets of Naples anew; were every drop of
sweat that has fallen upon them collected, there would be enough water to flood them. And yet
now that this dreadful staircase has been superseded by a good macadamised road, every one
seems to regret the change. Says the heavily laden contadina: ‘The old way was the shortest;’
says the artist: ‘It was infinitely more picturesque; that new parapet wall is a dreadful eye-sore;’
says the archaeologist: ‘It had the merit of antiquity; it is not everywhere that one can tread
in the footprints of a hundred generations.’ Even those whose every step in the olden time
was accompanied by a malediction, can remember how good a glass of very inferior wine tasted
on reaching Ana-Capri.”(11)

But whether Ana-Capri has or has not been really benefited by the Italian Government’s finely
engineered road, there can be no doubt that the primitive charm of the island, which in by-gone
days constituted one of its chief attractions, has greatly declined with the wholesale introduction
of modern conventions and improvements. With the sudden influx of wealthy strangers, Anglo-Saxon,
German, French and Russian, it is not surprising to learn that the islanders have become somewhat
demoralized under the changed conditions of life, and that not a small proportion of them have
grown venal and grasping. The happy old days when artists and inn-keepers, peasants and such
chance visitors as loved the simple unsophisticated life, hob-nobbed together on terms of equality
are gone for ever. Fashion, that merciless deity, has annexed the Insula Caprearum to her ever-growing
dominions;—there are smart villas on the Tragara road and even at Ana-Capri; there are British
tea-rooms and Teutonic Bierhälle in the town. At the present time the tourists and foreign
residents form the chief source of wealth to the islanders, now that the quails have more or
less deserted these shores. Instead of awaiting in due season with nets ready prepared the
advent of the plump little feathered immigrants from the African coast, the modern Caprioti
are continually on the look-out for the steamers that bear hundreds of money-spending tourists
to the Marina, and these they proceed to enmesh with proffered offers of service. And, speaking
of the quails, in the days before breech-loading guns and reckless extermination had injured
this valuable source of revenue, the arrival of the birds winging their way northward was the
signal for every sportsman on the island to hasten to collect the annual harvest of game. High
poles, supporting nets twenty feet broad and sixty feet long, were erected on the grassy slopes
of the Solaro or in the plateau of the Tragara, towards which, by dint of judicious scaring
and shouting from expectant watchers stationed at various points, the flight of the on-rushing
birds was directed. Dashing themselves with force against this wall of netting, the poor quails
fell stunned to the ground, where they were easily taken by hand, whilst scores of guns were
levelled ready to bring down such birds as had escaped the snare prepared for them. From the
thousands of quails thus captured the islanders were enabled to pay their taxes to the Bourbon
Government, as well as to provide the income of their Bishop—for in those distant days a prelate
dwelt at Capri—who in allusion to his chief source of income was jocularly known at the Roman
court as “Il Vescovo delle Quaglie.”

From Ana-Capri to the western shore extends the most fertile stretch of land in the island:
a broad slope set with vineyards and groves of silver-grey olives, that are interspersed here
and there with clumps of almond and plum trees. Fine oil is yielded by the poderi of Ana-Capri
and Damecuta, whilst the grapes produce the highly prized red and white Capri vintages, choice
wine of which the casual traveller rarely tastes a good sample, for it is usually doctored
and “improved” for purposes of keeping by the wine-merchants of Naples. Thus the rasping red
liquid that appears on the table of a London restaurant, and the scented strong-tasting white
stuff that is sold in the hotels of the island itself or of Naples under the name of Capri,
have little in common with the pure unadulterated product of these sunny breezy vineyards.
But besides wine and oil, the island is likewise celebrated for its beautiful and varied flora,
and it is amongst the olive groves and lanes of the western side of the island that the wild
flowers can be found in the greatest profusion. Amongst the tender green shoots of the young
springing corn are set myriads of brilliant hued anemones, purple, scarlet, and white with
a crimson centre; and even in January can be found in warm sheltered nooks the pretty mauve
wind-flower, one of the earliest of spring blossoms in Italy. The grassy pathways that intersect
the various holdings are gay with rosy-tipped daisies, white “star-of-Bethlehem,” dark purple
grape-hyacinth, and the tiny strong-scented marigold, that seems to bloom the whole twelve-month
round. Amongst the loose stone-work of the walled lanes, where beryl-backed lizards peep in
and out of every crevice, can be found fragrant violets and the delicate fumitory with its
pink waxy bells. In moist places flourish patches of the wild arum or of the stately great
celandine, the “swallow-wort” of old-fashioned herbalists, who believed that the swallow made
use of the thick yellow juice that runs in the veins of this plant to anoint the eyes of her
fledgelings! And with the disappearance of the anemones as the season advances, their place
is taken by blood-red poppies, by golden hawkweeds and by masses of tall magenta-coloured blooms
of the wild gladiolus, the “Jacob’s Ladder” of our own English gardens. Strange enough amongst
these familiar homely flowers appear the sub-tropical clumps of prickly pear, and the hedges
of aloe which here and there have thrown up a gigantic spike of blossom eight or ten feet in
height, a triumphal favour of Nature that the plant itself must pay for by its subsequent death.

From Ana-Capri we ascend to the peak of the lofty Solaro, by no means an arduous climb from
this point, for we have but to follow a narrow goat-track leading across slopes covered with
coarse grass and some low thickets of stunted lentisk and myrtle. The rosemary too grows plentifully
on the dry wind-swept soil, and the soft sea breeze wafts its refreshing scent to our nostrils.
There is a pretty legend of the people which relates the cause of this plant obtaining its
perfume of unearthly sweetness:—how the Madonna one day hung the swaddling clothes of the Infant
Christ to dry upon a common pot-herb in the garden at Nazareth—the rosemary is freely used
in Italian cookery, and its taste is as unpleasant as its scent is delicious—whereupon the
humble plant thus honoured was ever afterwards endowed with the delicate odour that is so highly
prized. And beyond this, the rosemary was likewise permitted to put forth masses of flowers
of the Madonna’s own colour of blue, concerning which a tradition—Celtic, not Italian—avers
that on Christmas morning upon every plant of rosemary will be found by those who care to seek
them expanded blooms in honour of St Joseph, the Virgin and the Holy Child. Reaching the crest
of the Solaro, we are well rewarded for our climb over the stony slopes by a wide-spreading
view. Owing to the central position of the island, we can from its airy summit, some sixteen
hundred feet above sea-level, command a glorious panorama of the three bays of the Neapolitan
Riviera, each teeming with a thousand associations of classical or modern history. Upon those
dancing waters of the Bay of Naples appeared in the dim ages of the heroic world the Trojan
galleys that were bearing the founder of the Roman race towards the beach by Cumae yonder,
where dwelt the venerable Sibyl; the fleets of ancient Rome and Carthage, the war-ships of
the great Emperor Charles V., the pirate galleys of the Soldan’s vassals, the men-of-war of
Nelson have all rode and fought upon the bosom of the bay beneath us. What a marvellous perspective
of the whole naval history of the Mediterranean does a survey of the Bay of Naples suggest!

Exquisite and inspiring as is the view on a clear cloudless day, with the keen tramontana off
the distant Abruzzi flecking the azure waves with streaks of creamy foam and driving the white-sailed
feluccas merrily towards the open sea, the landscape is even more impressive in dull lowering
weather, when the inky clouds that envelop the sky give promise of the approaching hurricane.
At such times a striking phenomenon, said to be peculiar to the Parthenopean shores, may be
observed. From out the purple threatening masses that fill the heavens there suddenly falls
a shaft of rosy light, as though directed by some vast celestial lens fixed aloft in the sky,
upon a small portion of the opposite shore. The plateau of Sorrento with its many white hamlets
first becomes illuminated; then the light rapidly passes towards Vesuvius, which is instantly
revealed with marvellous clearness, whilst Sorrento returns to its former dark brooding shadows.
For some moments we watch the circlet of towns that fringe the base of the burning mountain
and Camaldoli erect on its wooded height, and then our gaze is diverted towards Naples, so
clearly revealed that one can almost fancy it possible to detect the carriages driving along
the white line of the Caracciolo. From the city this weird fairy-like light glides swiftly
towards the headland of Posilipo and the great sombre mass of Ischia, and then finally seems
to vanish altogether in the leaden-hued expanse of the watery horizon. Storm, rain, wind, hail
and thunder will certainly follow the appearance of this fantastic rose-coloured glow, and
the visitor to Capri may in consequence be compelled to remain willy-nilly upon the island
until such time as communication with Naples shall be once more restored, for rough weather
on Capri means complete isolation from the mainland and the outside world. A spell of four
or five days without a letter or a newspaper may in certain cases be restful and even beneficial,
but it can also be highly inconvenient.

                               * * * * * *

Comparatively few persons are aware that in the history of Capri is to be found a page, not
a particularly glorious one perhaps, of the annals of our own nation. In the spring of 1806,
the year after Trafalgar, whilst our fleet was blockading Naples on behalf of its worthless
monarch, King Ferdinand, then skulking in cowardly ease at Palermo, Admiral Sir Sidney Smith,
the hero of Acre, managed to capture the island after a sharp struggle with the French troops
then holding it in the name of Joachim Murat, King of Naples and brother-in-law of the great
Napoleon. Sir Hudson (then Colonel) Lowe—afterwards famous as the Governor of St Helena during
Buonaparte’s captivity—was now put in command of the newly conquered island with some 1500
English and Maltese troops at his disposal. Lowe and his second in command, Major Hamill, at
once set to work to put the place into a strong state of defence, and so satisfied were they
with their work of fortification, that Lowe in his confidence nick-named the islet “Little
Gibraltar.” For more than two years the Union Jack floated in triumph from the fort-crowned
heights of Capri, much to the annoyance of the monarch on the mainland, who finally determined
at all costs to recapture the stronghold facing his capital. Fancying himself perfectly secure
in his “Little Gibraltar,” now deemed impregnable by a combination of art and nature against
any hostile descent, Lowe made light of any possible expedition from Naples, and when Neapolitan
warships actually appeared as though making to land troops at the Marinas on either side of
the saddle of the island, the British commandant was delighted at the ease with which these
attempts were repelled. But whilst the garrison was busied in thwarting the movements on the
Marinas, which in reality only constituted a feint on Murat’s part, transports were engaged
in disembarking at the low cliffs of Orico, the western extremity of the island, boat-loads
of men, who quickly swarmed up the terraced slopes towards Ana-Capri and surprised its garrison.
On the following day, October 6th 1808, in spite of Lowe’s efforts, Ana-Capri with its eight
hundred men surrendered to the French and Neapolitan troops led by General Lamarque, who at
once set up a battery on the crest of the Solaro, so as to command the town of Capri and the
English head-quarters, fixed at the Convent of the Certosa that lies between the Tragara Road
and the southern shore. The eastern half of the island still of course remained in the hands
of the British; and failing to reduce the town itself and the Convent of the Certosa by bombardment
from above, General Lamarque decided upon taking the place by storm, so as to forestall the
arrival of the English fleet, which was hourly expected to come to the rescue of the beleaguered
garrison. As we have already mentioned, there was no road existing upon the whole island in
those days a hundred years ago, so that in order to attack the capital, the French general
had to march his victorious troops by the precipitous flight of stone steps down to the Marina
Grande and then try to carry the position from below. Before however the Frenchmen, now further
aided by supplies sent by Murat’s order from Sorrento, could arrange for the projected assault
upon the town, the delayed British fleet suddenly appeared in the offing, evidently with the
intention of bearing down upon the island. But on this occasion the luck was all on the side
of the French, for scarcely had the eagerly expected ships hove in sight, than the besieged
garrison had the mortification to see their hopes of succour overthrown by the uprising of
one of those sudden squalls, so common on the Mediterranean, which drove the warships southward.
More than one assault was repulsed with heavy loss by the small English garrison, which had
already been deprived of half its numbers at Ana-Capri, including the gallant Major Hamill,
whose death is commemorated in a marble tablet set in the little piazza of the town. But with
the retirement of the relieving fleet and the continuance of foul weather, Colonel Lowe deemed
it useless to resist further, and like a sensible man decided to capitulate on the best terms
he could obtain. In return for his immediate surrender of Capri the British commandant accordingly
stipulated that his garrison should be allowed to embark and sail for Sicily unmolested, and
that the persons and property of the islanders, who seem to have appreciated the British occupation,
should be respected. But Lamarque, on communicating Colonel Lowe’s request to King Murat, received
peremptory orders to demand an unconditional surrender, whereupon an aide-de-camp of the King’s,
a certain Colonel Manches, was sent to interview Lowe with the royal letter in his pocket.
Had the missive been delivered to him, the British Governor would in all probability have decided
to fight to the bitter end rather than to submit to such severe and humiliating conditions.
Happily so terrible a catastrophe, which must have involved heavy loss of life on both sides,
followed by a sack of the town, was unexpectedly, averted at the last moment, for whilst Manches
was actually advancing with a flag of truce, the approach of the British fleet was again signalled
from the look-out on the hill now called the Telegrafo. Before the Governor could be made aware
of this piece of news, Colonel Manches, cunningly keeping his master’s imperious letter in
his pocket, told Colonel Lowe that King Murat was ready to accept the terms of surrender offered.
The weather being propitious, the British fleet would have been able this time to reach the
island, but its nearer approach was prevented by Colonel Lowe himself, who sent to acquaint
the Admiral, much to his chagrin, of the compact already concluded with the besiegers, a compact
which, as Hudson Lowe himself very properly pointed out, was binding upon the British Government.
On October 26th, three weeks from the date of the first attack, the English troops embarked
for Sicily, and the island was formally handed over to the French and Neapolitan forces, who
held it undisturbed until the close of the Napoleonic Wars.

                               CHAPTER XII

                     ISCHIA AND THE LADY OF THE ROCK

Embarking at Torregaveta, the little terminus of the Ferrovia Cumana, which traverses the classic
district of the Phlegraean Fields, we are quickly transported in a small coasting steamer past
the headland of Misenum to the island and port of Procida, the “alta Prochyta” of Virgil. Although
the poet calls the island lofty, it is remarkably flat considering its volcanic origin, for
Procida and Ischia were undoubtedly one in remote ages, as the learned Strabo rightly conjectured.
Its only eminence is the Rocciola, the castle-crowned hillock to the north-east of the island,
but as this hill must first have caught the expectant eye of Aeneas’ steersman, perhaps the
epithet is after all not so misplaced as would appear at first sight. Carefully tilled and
densely populated, the island produces a large proportion of the fruit, vegetables, and olive
oil, that are sold in the Naples market, and as it possesses no remains of antiquity, no medieval
churches, no works of art, and but few beauties of nature to recommend it for inspection, Procida
is rarely visited by strangers. Its inhabitants, who are chiefly husbandmen, are hard working
and independent, and content also to retain the manners and customs of their frugal forefathers,
and even to a certain extent to continue the use of their national dress, so that the festivals
of Procida have more interest and local colour than those observed in tourist-haunted Capri
or Sorrento. Unconcerned at the progress of the world without, unspoiled by the gold of the
forestiere, the Procidani pursue the even tenor of their old-fashioned ways, unenvious of and
unenvied by their neighbours on the mainland.

  “O fortunatos nimium, sua si bona nôrint,
  Agricolas!”

We halt at the port of Procida, with its flat-roofed gaily coloured houses lining the quay
and ascending the gentle slope towards the Rocciola. Thence, skirting the low-lying fertile
shores of the island, and passing the olive-clad islet of Vivara, we soon come in sight of
the steep headland on which are perched the grey masses of the Castle of Ischia, “the Mount
St Michael of Italy.”

Covered from base to summit with fume-weed, lentisk, aromatic cistus, and every plant that
loves the sun, the wind and the salt foam of the Mediterranean, the huge solitary cliff rises
majestically from the deep blue water. Whether viewed in brilliant sunshine under a cloudless
sky, or in foul weather, when the sea is hurling its waves over the stone causeway that connects
the isolated crag with the little city of Ischia, the first sight of this historic castle is
singularly impressive. Nor is its grandeur lessened on a near approach, for the ascent to its
topmost tower takes us through a labyrinth of staircases and mysterious subterranean passages,
through vaulted chambers and curious hanging gardens to an airy platform, which commands a
glorious view in every direction over land and sea.

Built by Alphonso V. of Aragon in the fifteenth century, this massive pile, half-fortress and
half-palace, is famous in Italian annals for its long association with the noble poetess Vittoria
Colonna, Marchioness of Pescara. Born in the old Castle of Marino, near Rome, one of the strongholds
of the great feudal house of Colonna, the poetess, who was great-great-niece to Pope Martin
V., was betrothed in her infancy at the instigation of King Ferdinand of Naples to the youthful
heir of the d’Avalos family, hereditary governors of the island of Ischia. The elder sister
of Vittoria’s affianced husband, Constance d’Avalos, the widowed Duchess of Francavilla, was
the “châtelaine” of Ischia during her brother’s minority, so that it was but natural that his
Colonna bride-elect should be sent to dwell with Constance in this castle. Here Vittoria under
her sister-in-law’s excellent tutelage grew up to womanhood amidst the intellectual atmosphere
of the Italian Renaissance, and here she was trained to develop into one of the most learned,
the most interesting and the most attractive figures that all Italy produced at this period.
Childless in her early marriage at eighteen, and with her husband frequently, not to say usually,
engaged in military expeditions on the mainland, Vittoria had every opportunity of cultivating
her mind and of filling her sea-girt palace with men of genius. The poets Cariteo and Bernado
Tasso (the father of Torquato Tasso), were frequent visitors at this

  “Superbo scoglio, altaro e bel ricetto,
  Di tanti chiari eroi, d’ imperadori,
  Orde raggi di gloria escono fuori,
  Ch’ ogni altro lume fan scuro e negletto.”

Strange to relate, her husband, the Marquis of Pescara, was destined to forestall his learned
lady in the matter of poetry, for during his imprisonment at Milan in the year 1512, he composed
a “Dialogo d’Amore” to send to his sorrowing wife at Ischia, a production which the learned
Paolo Giovio, the historian and bishop of Nocera, pronounced as being “summae jucunditatis,”
though in reality it seems to have been feeble enough. But however halting and commonplace
the warrior’s verses, Pescara’s composition had the immediate effect of opening the flood-gates
of his wife’s poetic temperament, for she replied at once to her spouse’s effort with an epistle
conceived in the terza rima employed by Dante, and though the poem is turgid in diction and
shallow in thought, full of classical names and allusions, “a parade of all the treasures of
the school-room,” it exhibits the graceful ease and high scholarship which mark all Vittoria’s
writings. Meanwhile, unblest with offspring of her own and ever separated by the cruel circumstance
of war from the husband she seemed perfectly content to admire from a distance, Vittoria did
not expend all her time at Ischia in sacrificing to Apollo and the Muses, for she now undertook
the education of her husband’s young cousin and heir, Alphonso d’Avalos, Marchese del Vasto,
whose manhood certainly did credit to his instructress, for del Vasto under her influence grew
up to be a brave soldier and a tolerable scholar.

After sixteen years of married life with a husband who, although professing deep devotion to
his brilliant and virtuous consort, was almost invariably absent from her side, Vittoria found
herself left a widow shortly after the great battle of Pavia in 1525 wherein Francis I. of
France surrendered to the Emperor Charles V. The Marquis of Pescara, after the usual career
of bloodthirsty adventures which passed in those days for a life of knight-errantry, died at
Milan towards the close of this year, leaving behind him an unenviable reputation for treachery
towards his master. But however hard were the things said of the deceased Fernando d’Avalos
by the outside world, no breath of suspicion seems ever to have penetrated to the heart of
the faithful if placid Vittoria, who mourned bitterly if somewhat theatrically over her departed
hero. The Lady of the Rock was now in her thirty-fifth year, and her beauty, so we are told,
still remained undimmed; in fact it was rather improved by a tendency towards plumpness, for
sorrow and poetry are not necessarily associated with a meagre appearance. Spending her time
partly in the great Italian cities, but chiefly on her beloved scoglio superbo, the widow of
Pescara now set herself to write that series of sonnets in memory of her dead husband which
have rescued his unworthy name from oblivion and have rendered her own famous in Italian literature.
For the sonnets of Vittoria Colonna, though appearing cold classical and pedantic to our northern
ideas, evidently appeal to the Italian temperament, so that the praises of Pescara and his
widow’s stilted complaints, couched in the elegant language of the Renaissance, are still read
and appreciated to-day by her compatriots. As time passed, and the ghost of sorrowful remorse
was supposed to be decently laid, the sonnets contain somewhat less of hero-worship, and assume
a religious and speculative character. Some critics have even gone so far as to affect to perceive
a latent spirit of Protestantism underlying the graceful platitudes and commonplace but grandly
expressed ideas. Very likely the Lady of the Rock dabbled in the fashionable heterodoxy of
the hour, as it is at least certain that she was on terms of intimacy with the celebrated Princess
Renée, the “Protestant” Duchess of Ferrara. On the other hand, several of her acquaintances
and correspondents were amongst the most prominent of the unyielding Churchmen of the day;
in their number being, it is interesting to note, Cardinal Reginald Pole, great-nephew of King
Edward IV. of England and afterwards Queen Mary’s Archbishop of Canterbury, who was certainly
not likely to encourage Vittoria’s unorthodox or reforming tendencies. “The more opportunity,”
so writes the poetess to Cardinal Cervino, afterwards Pope Marcellus II., “I have had of observing
the actions of his Eminence the Cardinal of England, the more clear has it seemed to me that
he is a true and sincere servant of God. Whenever, therefore, he charitably condescends to
give me his opinion on any point, I conceive myself safe from error in following his advice.”
And on the strength of Cardinal Pole’s astute counsels, Vittoria promptly broke off all communication
with the leading reformer, Bernardino Ochino, and (a thing which does not strike us as particularly
honourable) forwarded his letters to herself unopened to his spiritual adversaries. But it
is evident that Vittoria’s “Protestantism” was a mere pose, assumed at a time when adverse
criticism from all sides was being levelled at the political abuses of the Papacy and at the
various scandals in the Church which were patent to the eyes of all onlookers. In short her
religious verses are if anything more frigid and artificial than those which compose the In
Memoriam to her husband, her Bel Sole, as she usually terms him. Whilst admitting considerable
merit in Vittoria’s compositions, we find it at this distance of time very difficult to understand
the extravagant praise which was showered upon her poems by the Italian critics of the day,
or to conceive how a sonnet from the gifted pen of the Marchioness of Pescara could possibly
have been considered an important event in the literary world by cardinals, princes, poets,
wits and scholars. From Naples to Rome, from Rome to Ferrara, from Ferrara to Mantua and Milan,
the precious manuscript containing the last-born sonnet of the illustrious Lady of Ischia was
eagerly passed along. Court poets read aloud amidst breathless silence the divine Vittoria’s
fourteen lines of jejune sentiment draped in folds of elegant verbiage; nobles and prelates
applauded, hailing the authoress as a heaven-sent genius. Sincere to a certain extent this
strange admiration undoubtedly was, although the homage was paid perhaps in equal proportions
to the excellence of the verse and to the high rank of the author. She was a Colonna by birth;
she was the widow of a petty despot; she was governor of a large island;—any literary production,
however indifferent, from so high a personage would have been received throughout Italy with
respect or flattery. But Vittoria was no mean or careless aspirant to fame; it was the fault
of an artificial age rather than the lack of her own natural ability that has made her poetry
cold and soulless, for under healthy conditions of life and thought, “the Divine Vittoria”
was doubtless capable of producing something warmer and more human than the lifeless but graceful
sonnets that bear her name.

It is chiefly through her close connexion with the great literary movement of the Italian Renaissance
and her intimacy with its leading artists and writers, rather than through her own reputation
as a poetess, that the name of Vittoria Colonna herself is remembered outside the borders of
Italy. With her wealth, her culture, her virtue and her unique position in the world of rank
and of letters, it is nothing marvellous that so fortunate and gifted a mortal should have
become the idol of the leading persons of her day. She belonged, in fact, to a brilliant and
famous group of which she was the soul and centre; of which she was at once the patron, the
disciple and the teacher. That great master of Italian prose, Pietro Bembo, set a high value
on her powers of criticism; other men, almost as distinguished as the Venetian cardinal, besought
her for advice on literary subjects. Foremost in her circle of admirers appears of course the
great Michelangelo, with whom the immaculate Vittoria condescended to indulge in one of those
cold platonic pseudo-passions which constituted the true divino amore of the idealists of the
Renaissance. So here was nothing to cavil at, nothing to arouse base suspicion. Considered
the greatest man and the greatest woman in all Italy, both were of mature age, he in the sixties
and she in the forties, when Michelangelo first professed himself seized with a pure but unquenchable
love and devotion for the widowed Lady of the Rock.

The last days of Vittoria, which were chiefly spent within the walls of the Convent of Sant’
Anna at Rome, were clouded by ill-health and sorrow. The death of the young Marchese del Vasto,
“her moral and intellectual son,” was an irreparable loss, for which her boundless fame and
popularity could offer little real consolation. At length the poetess, feeling death approaching,
moved to the house of Giulia Colonna, her relative, and there expired in February 1547, in
the fifty-seventh year of her age. To the last her death-bed was surrounded by sorrowing and
adoring friends, amongst them being Michelangelo, who is said to have witnessed with his own
eyes the last moments of his beloved Lady. And the famous sculptor, painter and poet—perhaps
the most stupendous genius the world has yet produced—is reported to have bitterly regretted
in after years that on so solemn an occasion he had not ventured to imprint one chaste kiss
upon the forehead of the woman he had adored so ardently, yet so purely during life. By her
expressed wish the body of the poetess was buried in San Domenico Maggiore at Naples, the finest
and least spoiled of all the Neapolitan churches, where a velvet-covered coffin containing
the ashes of the Divine Vittoria and her “Bel Sole,” and surmounted by the sword, banner and
portrait of Fernando d’Avalos, is still pointed out to the stranger, resting on a shelf in
the sacristy of the church. We cannot but regret that Vittoria’s body did not find a final
resting-place in her superbo scoglio, where all her happiest years were spent and where her
memory still survives so fresh.

Sadly deserted appear to-day the historic buildings, which are fast falling into hopeless decay;
even the large domed church of the Castle has been desecrated and turned into a stable.

  “Tocsins from yon bleak turrets never ring;
  No knight or pages pace those galleries,
  So sombre and so silent: ever cling
  To that cold church and palace draperies
  Of glaucous fume-weed; sea-birds ever sing
  The vanished glories with low mournful cries.”

Ischia itself is a quaint, dirty, straggling town, possessing a small cathedral of ancient
foundation, but modernised within and without, its sole object of interest being a curious
font resting on marble lions. The charm of the city lies chiefly in the busy scenes to be witnessed
daily on its sandy beach and on the stone causeway that leads to the Castle, where a large
part of the population seems to spend most of its time in mending the deep brown fishing nets
or in attending to the gaudily painted boats.

Almost adjoining the outskirts of the little capital of the island is Porto d’Ischia, with
a deep circular harbour that was once the crater of an extinct volcano, wherein every variety
of Mediterranean fishing craft is to be seen at anchor. Close to the port, embowered among
groves of orange and lemon trees that in winter time are laden with bright or pale yellow fruit,
stands a fine old villa of the Bourbon kings of Naples, once a favourite summer retreat of
his Majesty King Bomba. Royalty has long abandoned Ischia, and the villa has now been converted
into a bath house. Beyond its neglected park stretches an extensive pine forest, carpeted in
spring time with daisies, marigolds and anemones, and even in February gay with yellow oxalis
and redolent with the scent of hidden violets.

The road from Ischia to Casamicciola, a distance of four miles, leads along the base of Monte
Epomeo through olive groves and vineyards, the whitewashed walls of the domed cottages, the
flat roofs and cisterns, and the frequent clumps of aloe or prickly pear giving an Eastern
aspect to the scenery, though the sharp tinklings of the goat bells among the thickets of white
heath and dark myrtle scrub on the hill-sides and the continual murmur of the waves breaking
on the rocks below, serve to remind us we are upon the Neapolitan Riviera. Our destination
at length is reached, the roadway crossing the deep valley of the Gurgitello with its sulphur
baths, which once had a wide reputation and are still much frequented in the summer months
by the people of Naples. Although the sources of the springs were certainly damaged by the
earthquake of 1883, new bathing establishments have been built, and a fair number of patients
are once more availing themselves of these beneficent waters, which of course are warranted
to heal every bodily evil under the sun. A course of the Ischian waters therefore applied externally
and internally (so the local doctors inform us)

  “Muove i paralitici,
  Spedisce gli apopletici,
  Gli asmatici, gli asfitici,
  Gl’ isterici, i diabetici
  Guarisce timpanitidi,
  E scrofule e rachitidi.”

Formerly the most populous and prosperous township of the whole island, Casamicciola consists
to-day principally of a mass of shapeless ruins, together with a number of dismal corrugated
iron huts grouped round an ugly modern church, nor can its exquisite views and luxuriant gardens
make amends for the settled air of melancholy which continues to brood over this unlucky spot.
Every reader will doubtless remember the story of the terrible earthquake of July 28th 1883,
when almost without warning the whole town, then crowded with its usual influx of summer visitors,
was overthrown and engulfed in the space of a few seconds of time. Hotels, villas, churches,
cottages, all suffered equally, and though the exact number of those who perished of all classes
will never be known, the most moderate accounts put the figure as high as 3000 souls. Several
English people lost their lives in that brief but terrible upheaval, and as many of the bodies
as were recovered from the wreckage were laid to rest in the little cemetery outside the town,
a plot of ground overhanging the sea, and shaded by cypress and eucalyptus trees. Many and
impressive are the stories still to be heard from the lips of the present inhabitants, who
are wont to date all events from that fearful night of darkness and destruction, and who all
have piteous tales to tell of relations killed and houses shattered. The English landlady of
the Piccola Sentinella, who herself had an almost miraculous escape on the occasion, gave us
a most vivid and heart-rending description of how her hotel and most of its inmates were overwhelmed
on that awful July night, and how the existing inn is literally built upon foundations that
are filled with many unrecovered bodies of victims. It was on a dark sultry night after the
evening meal had been finished, when the many guests of the Piccola Sentinella were sitting
in the public rooms or on the terrace overlooking the hotel gardens. In the salon a young Englishman,
an accomplished musician, had been playing for some time on the piano, when suddenly and unexpectedly
he plunged into the strains of Chopin’s Marche Funèbre, which had the immediate effect of scattering
his audience, since many of his listeners, not caring for so melancholy a piece of music, deserted
the room for the garden. Lucky indeed were those persons driven forth by the strains of Chopin’s
dirge, for a few moments later came the earthquake, when in a trice the whole hotel was swallowed
up in the yawning chasm of the earth. Everybody inside the walls was killed, and the body of
the poor pianist was actually discovered later amidst the wreckage, crushed down upon the instrument
which had struck the warning notes of impending disaster. The horrors of that night still linger
vividly in the memory of the people, and many are the terrible incidents, and many also, we
are glad to say, the acts of bravery which are recorded of it. One elderly English lady, who
owned a small villa on the slope above the hotel, rushed at the first suspicion of the catastrophe
into the stone archway of a window, whence she beheld the whole of her house collapse like
a castle of cards around her. Nothing daunted by the spectacle, this gallant woman, as soon
as the shock had ceased and the clouds of dust rising from the ruin had cleared away, left
her own dismantled home, of which nothing but the one wall that had sheltered her remained
standing, and joined the parrocco, the parish priest of Casamicciola, in the task of succouring
the living and comforting the dying. To the darkness of the night was now added a heavy rainfall,
yet the good priest and this noble woman traversed together the altered and devastated scene
amidst the wet and gloom on their errand of mercy. It is some satisfaction to learn that this
piece of unselfish heroism and devotion on the part of the priest was officially acknowledged,
for the humble curate of Casamicciola was afterwards made a prelate by Pope Leo XIII. in recognition
of his signal services. Even to-day people are inclined to be somewhat chary of spending any
length of time in this unfortunate spot, where the ruined streets and shapeless mounds of earth,
only too suggestive of a latter-day Pompeii, speak so eloquently of terrible experiences in
the past and of possible dangers in the future. Nevertheless, if one can triumph over these
gloomy feelings, Casamicciola affords a delightful centre whence to explore the whole island,
and many are the pleasant walks to be found on the overhanging slopes of Mont’ Epomeo, and
many the boating expeditions to be made from the Marina below the upper town.

It is a two-mile walk through stony lanes overhung by branches of fig and orange from Casamicciola
to Lacco, a large village well situated on a little bay which is distinguished by a curious
mushroom-shaped rock, aptly nicknamed “Il Fungo” by the natives. This place, which also suffered
severely in the earthquake of 1883, is the head-quarters of the straw-plaiting industry of
the island, the women and children noisily beseeching every chance visitor to buy their wares
in the guise of baskets, hats and fans; the pretty coloured tiles (mattoni), which are used
with such good effect in the churches and houses of the island, are likewise manufactured here.
Lacco is particularly associated with the great annual festival of St Restituta on May 17th,
which is always marked by religious processions and by universal merry-making, followed by
illuminations and fireworks at nightfall. This saint, of whom an early mosaic portrait still
exists in her ancient chapel within the Neapolitan Cathedral, was once the patroness of the
city of Naples, but since medieval times she has been honoured as the special guardian of this
island, whither her body (so the legend runs) was miraculously conveyed from Egypt in a boat
rowed by angels. A local tradition also asserts that on her landing by the beach of Lacco,
an Egyptian lotus bloom was found in the saint’s hand, as fresh as when it had been plucked
months before from the banks of the Nile.

Leaving the little bay with its sulphur-impregnated sands, and turning inland, we proceed along
a road across an ancient lava-stream over-grown with pine trees, wild caper and a tangle of
aromatic brushwood, to Forio, which with its white domed houses, its palm trees, and its stately
bare-footed women bearing tall pitchers on their heads gives at first acquaintance the full
impression of an Oriental city. There is little to be seen in Forio itself, with the exception
of some fine vestments of needlework that are preserved in the sacristy of its principal church,
but no traveller should fail to visit its wonderfully picturesque Franciscan monastery, a barbaric-looking
pile of dazzling white walls and cupolas set against a background of cobalt waters, which stands
outside the town on a rocky platform jutting into the Mediterranean and is approached by a
broad flight of marble steps adorned with most realistic figures of souls burning in brightly
painted flames of Purgatory. This point too commands a good view of the extreme north-eastern
promontory of the island, a tall cliff known as the Punta del Imperatore in honour of the great
Emperor Charles the Fifth, beyond which visitors rarely penetrate owing to the roughness, or
rather non-existence of roads, though the southern side of the island, which lies between this
cape and the castle of Ischia, is fully as beautiful as the northern portion just described.

The chief attraction, however, of a visit to Ischia is the ascent of Mont’ Epomeo, an easy
expedition on foot to the active, and feasible to the weak or lazy on mule-back. This extinct
volcano, whose broad lofty summit is visible from many points of the Bay of Naples, is naturally
rich in classical associations, the ancients believing that within it lay imprisoned the giant
Typhoeus, whose agonised movements were wont to cause the frequent eruptions of the crater
that eventually drove away the early Greek settlers from this island—the Aenaria or Inarime
of antiquity—and in later times accounted for the neglect of Ischia as a winter resort by the
luxurious Romans, in spite of its near presence to fashionable Baiae. So destructive of life
and property were these convulsions of nature, that for long periods, notwithstanding its fertile
soil and its lucrative fisheries, the island remained uninhabited, and an old tradition, mentioned
by Ovid, derives one of its ancient names, Pithecusa, from a race of apes (pithēkoi) that dwelt
on its abandoned shores. Since the great eruption of 1302, the effects of which can still be
traced among the large pine woods near Porto d’Ischia, the mountain has been quiescent, and
the population of the island has increased considerably, although the constant shocks of earthquake
have always made a permanent residence in Ischia somewhat insecure. Nor can we rest assured
that Typhoeus himself is truly dead, not merely sleeping, but ready to renew his fierce efforts
after his long spell of slumber, and to change the face of nature as unexpectedly as did the
Demon of Vesuvius in the reign of Titus.

Like the great volcano of Etna, which the Ischian mountain somewhat resembles on a tiny scale.
Epomeo contains three distinct climatic zones. The lowest is that of the coast line with its
rich sub-tropical vegetation, the early part of the ascent leading by steep stony paths through
sun-baked vineyards which produce the white wine of Ischia, wholesome and light but somewhat
acid in taste. For the storing of this vintage the peasants make use of the numerous old stone
towers, that once served as safe retreats for the terrified inhabitants in times when the Barbary
pirates frequently descended on the Italian coasts to plunder and enslave. Very curious it
is to step out of the blinding sunlight into the interior of one of these medieval buildings,
where in the icy gloom stand great barrels of the new white wine, each carefully inscribed
with a prayer in praise of St Restituta, from one of which the swarthy contadino, in expectation
of a few pence, draws a glassful of the sour chilly liquid to offer his visitor. Leaving behind
this region of houses and of cultivation, the zone of forest is reached, covered with woods
of chestnut and oak, with a thick undergrowth of heather, myrtle, laurustinus and sweet-scented
yellow coronella; there is grass under our feet, and long-stemmed daisies, violets, mauve anemones
and small fragrant marigolds everywhere. Through the trees comes the nasal but not unmelodious
singing of an unseen charcoal-burner, or the plaintive note of the little goat-herd’s rustic
pipe, accompanied by the musical jingling of his goat-bells;—for a moment we try to fancy ourselves
in the pastoral Italy of Theocritus, where nymphs and shepherds, peasants and dryads, lived
together on terms of amity in the woods. But soon the chestnut trees appear stunted, and the
groves become less thick, and we finally gain the last zone, the desolate expanse of naked
rock and dark lava deposits of the summit, where only a few hardy weeds can thrive. Here in
some damp mouldy chambers dwells a hermit, for nearly all the classic mountains of Southern
Italy are tenanted by an anchorite, generally an old and ignorant, but pious peasant, of the
type of Pietro Murrone, the holy recluse of the Abruzzi, who was finally dragged from his cell
to be invested forcibly with the pontifical robes and tiara as Celestine the Fifth. The present
hermitage on Mont’ Epomeo dates however from comparatively modern times, for its first occupant
is said to have been a German nobleman, a certain Joseph Arguth, governor of Ischia under the
first Bourbon king, who in consequence of a solemn vow made in battle deliberately passed his
last years of existence on the topmost peak of the island he had lately ruled. His example
has been followed and his cell filled by many successors, who have endured the spring rains,
the summer heats, the autumn storms and the winter chills upon this airy height, where the
glorious view may be found a compensation for eternal discomfort, if hermits condescend to
appreciate anything so mundane as scenery. The shrine and cell are dedicated to St Nicholas
of Bari, and to this circumstance is due the local uninteresting name of Monte San Niccolò
to the entire mountain, whose crest, some 3000 feet above sea-level, we finally gain by means
of steps roughly hewn in the lava.

The view from this height, embracing two out of the three historic bays of the Parthenopean
coast, is one of the noblest and most extensive in Southern Italy. Looking southward, the fantastic
cliffs of Capri are seen to rise abruptly from the ocean; beyond them appears the graceful
outline of Monte Sant’ Angelo, with the crater of Vesuvius beside it, veiling the clear blue
sky with volumes of dusky smoke. Beneath extends the broken line of shore, stretching north
and south as far as the eye can travel, with its classic capes and islands basking in the strong
sunshine; whilst behind the foam-fringed boundary of land and sea rises the jagged line of
the Abruzzi Mountains with the huge snow-clad mass of the Gran Sasso d’Italia towering above
the lower peaks. At our feet is spread the beautiful and fertile island, in outward appearance
little changed since the days when the good Bishop Berkeley “of every virtue under Heaven”
penned its description nearly two centuries ago in a letter to Alexander Pope, wherein he described
Ischia as “an epitome of the whole earth.”

In spite of the good Bishop’s eloquent tribute to the genial climate and the natural beauty
of Ischia, it must be borne in mind that a residence on the island possesses one or two serious
drawbacks. Apart from the ever-present fear of earthquakes, which hangs like the sword of Damocles
above the heads of the inhabitants, there is yet another disadvantage, prosaic but very real,
in the lack of pure water, every well and rivulet on Ischia being more or less impregnated
with sulphur, with the result that water for drinking (and in summer even for domestic) purposes
has to be conveyed by boat from Naples. It is bad enough to be dependant on a distant city
for a food supply (which is to some extent also the case here), but the possibility of enduring
a water famine through storms or misadventure would be a far more serious calamity; nevertheless
as casual visitors to this charming and little-known island, we can easily afford to smile
at such misfortunes.(12)

                               CHAPTER XIII

                  PUTEOLI AND THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME

Passing along the noisy thronged street of the Chiaja and plunging thence into the chill gloomy
recesses of the ancient grotto of Posilipo, we emerge at its further side into a new world,
as it were, into a district where “there is scarcely a spot which is not identified with the
poetical mythology of Greece, or associated with some name familiar in the history of Rome.”
In truth, the headland of Posilipo presents a wonderful landmark in the history of Naples,
for it forms a barrier between the busy world of to-day and the departed civilisation of the
ancients: at the latter end of this tunnel, the fierce life and movement of a great commercial
city; at its western exit, a tract of land teeming with recollections of the glorious past.

As our carriage emerges once more into the warmth and sunlight, we find ourselves in the miserable
village of Fuorigrotta, which, by a strange coincidence, is associated with the memory of a
famous Italian poet. For if the name and verses of Sannazzaro cling to Piedigrotta and the
Parthenopean shore on the eastern side of the hill, the genius of Count Giacomo Leopardi sheds
its melancholy radiance over the unlovely purlieus of Fuorigrotta. Here in the vestibule of
the parish church of San Vitale, lie the ashes of that unhappy writer, the Shelley of Italian
literature, who so bewailed the Austrian and Bourbon fetters that enchained his native land.
Poor Leopardi! It was but eleven years before the first great movement of the Risorgimento
swept over Italy in 1848 that he passed away; his poems were indeed songs before sunrise, a
sunrise of which he failed to detect the far-off glimmering, so that he could only lament without
hope the sad condition of his dismembered country, once the mistress and now the play-thing
of the world, and the abject slave of hated Austria:

  “O patria mia, vedo le mure e gli archi
  E le colonne e i simulacri e l’ erme
  Torri degli avi nostri,
  Ma la gloria non vedo;
  Non vedo il lauro e’l ferro ond’ eran carchi
  I nostri padri antichi.”

It is a flat dusty stretch of road that lies between Fuorigrotta and Bagnoli; the high walls
give only occasional glimpses of well-tilled parterres—one cannot call these tiny patches of
cultivation fields—with thriving crops of brilliant green corn, of claret-red clover, of purple
lucerne, and of the white-flowered “sad lupin,” which Vergil has immortalised in verse. The
round bright yellow beans of the lupin crop, known locally by the name of spassa-tiempî (time-killers),
afford an article of food to the very poorest of the population. A quaint story runs that one
day an impoverished philosopher, reduced to making his dinner off a handful of these beans,
and imagining himself in consequence the most wretched wight in existence, was cheered and
comforted by observing himself followed by a still more miserable fellow-mortal, who was engaged
in picking up and eating the husks of the beans that, more italiano, he had thrown carelessly
on to the pathway after their insipid farinaceous contents had been sucked out!

Above us to the right are the heights of Monte Spina, covered with groves of the umbrella pine,
the typical tree of Naples; to our left extends the verdant ridge of Posilipo, ending in Cape
Coroglio, beyond which the massive form of Nisida rises proudly from the blue expanse of water.
All the landscape shows somewhat hard in the glare of noontide, and we find the enveloping
clouds of fine white dust very oppressive and disagreeable. From time to time a lumbering country
cart is passed with its attendant bare-footed peasant; otherwise there is little sign of life
on the high road. The bright sunlight flashes upon the horse’s polished brass harness, and
upon the elaborate erection of charms placed thereon, with the avowed object of averting the
dreaded Evil Eye, that everlasting bugbear of all dwellers upon these southern shores. On his
poor drooping head the worn-out old steed carries a large bell with four jingling clappers
and two brazen crescents, the horns of one of which point upwards and of the other towards
the ground. On the off-side of the headgear is a bunch of bright-coloured ribbands or woollen
tassels, from which depends the single horn, the invaluable Neapolitan talisman that is supposed
to protect every man, woman, child or beast, from the chance glance of a passing jettatore.
Above this glowing mass of colour some three or four feathers of a pheasant’s tail are stuck,
apparently with no ulterior purpose than that of ornament; but beside the bunch of ribbands
there is also fixed a piece of wolf’s skin, to give strength to the jaded animal, for, remarks
the sapient Pliny, “a wolf’s skin attached to a horse’s neck will render him proof against
all weariness.” Personally, we should think a little more consideration and some elementary
knowledge of farriery would have been of more service to the ill-used beasts round Naples than
the excellent Pliny’s highly original receipt. Besides this powerful battery of charms to intercept
the jettatura, there is the light brass headpiece engraved with sacred figures, so that any
evil glance must be fully absorbed, baffled or exhausted, before it can fix itself upon the
animal. In addition however to this shining mass of headgear, the horse carries on his back
one of those curious high pommels that are peculiar to Southern Italy and Sicily. The front
of the pommel itself is of well-polished brass, and covered with a number of studs, whilst
at its back is fastened a miniature barrel, upon which there stands erect the figure of some
local saint, generally that of San Gennaro. The exact part that the barrel and the row of studs
play in this mystic battle against the Evil Eye is unknown, but the two revolving flags of
brass that swing and creak above the pommel itself are believed to represent “the flaming sword
which turned every way,” and finally expelled Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden. Certainly
this shimmering metal has the appearance of a flaming sword in the bright sunshine, so that
it ought to prove efficacious in catching and averting any baleful glance. A second patch of
wolf skin on the crest of the pommel, and some red worsted wound round the spindle of the flags
complete the list of strange charms that are considered necessary to protect a Neapolitan horse
from the pernicious influence of a casual passer-by.

We soon reach the sea-shore at Bagnoli, a little watering-place much frequented by Neapolitans
of the middle classes, and on looking back we obtain a charming view of the headland of Posilipo
and of stately Nisida, the Nesis of the ancients, with its memories of Brutus, “the noblest
Roman of them all,” who on this little island bade farewell for ever to his devoted Portia.
A very different tenant from the chaste Portia, however, who once possessed a villa in this
sea-girt retreat during the Middle Ages, was Queen Joanna the Second, the last member of the
Durazzo branch of the Angevin royal house, and sister and heiress of King Ladislaus II., whose
splendid monument in San Giovanni a Carbonara is one of the chief artistic treasures of Naples.
It is of course unnecessary here to remark that there were two Queens of Naples, both Joanna
by name, and that the first of these, the contemporary of Petrarch (whose proper feeling she
contrived to shock) was certainly not a pattern of female virtue, but that she shone as a moral
paragon when contrasted with her name-sake and successor, the sister of King Ladislaus. Of
this second Queen, tradition more or less accurate relates a host of stories, none of them
to her credit; how she dabbled in necromancy and was immersed in love intrigues, the most celebrated
of which was her amour with the handsome “Ser. Gianni,” Giovanni Caracciolo, head of an eminent
family that has figured prominently in Neapolitan history from the days of Angevin monarchs
to those of King Ferdinand. Little good did the fickle Queen’s favour do Ser. Gianni, who suffered
an ignominious fate for having one day boxed Joanna’s ears during a lovers’ tiff. Murdered
secretly by four assassins, Caracciolo’s body was laid to rest in the family chapel in San
Giovanni a Carbonara beneath a splendid monument which is surmounted by the luckless favourite’s
effigy. Joanna the First with all her faults was never guilty of such light conduct as this,
but the peasant mind is always impatient of dry details of fact, so that in the popular imagination
to-day both Queens are blended into one personage, whose character, it is needless to say,
is about as vile as can be conceived. “Siccome la Regina Giovanna,” is a form of peasant execration
around Naples that has some historical affinity with the time-honoured Irish malediction of
the “Curse o’ Cromwell.”

Turning our backs on the island with its memories of Portia the Perfect and of Queen Joanna
the Improper, we pursue our course along the sea-shore with rocks of ancient lava above us
to the right, now heavily overgrown with brushwood and plants, amongst which we notice tufts
of the pretty wild asparagus, that the observant Pliny centuries ago found flourishing in this
district. As an early herb, coming into season long before its cultivated cousin is fit for
cutting, this succulent vegetable is highly prized in the South, and its flavour though somewhat
bitter is most palatable, so that an omelette aux pointes d’asperges sauvages is a dish not
to be despised by those who get the opportunity of testing this local delicacy. Before us lies
our goal, Pozzuoli, with its ancient citadel jutting into the placid waters and backed by the
classic headland of Misenum, above which in turn towers the crest of distant Epomeo.

Pozzuoli in recent years has been much neglected by strangers, so much so that no inn worthy
to be called an hotel now exists, and such trattorie as the place offers are all equally extortionate
and detestable. Some time ago there was a comfortable pension at the edge of the town on the
road to the Amphitheatre, but its English landlady has long since migrated elsewhere, and the
comfortable “Hotel Grande Bretagne” is no more; whilst nowadays there are to be found no visitors
hardy enough to endure a prolonged sojourn in the wretched hostelries of the town itself. The
electric tram and the rail-road have in fact killed Pozzuoli as a winter resort, more’s the
pity, for it is not only a spot of singular interest in itself but its climate is certainly
superior to that of Naples, for the great headland which shuts off the city from the Phlegrean
Fields serves also to act as a buffer against the icy tramontana that sweeps along the Chiaja
in winter and early spring. Invalids used at one time to inhabit Pozzuoli on account of its
mild atmosphere, and even to visit the Solfatara daily on mule-back, in order to inhale its
sulphureous fumes, which were then believed to be good for weak chests. But medical fashions
vary like all others, and consumptive patients now seek other places than Pozzuoli for their cure.

Many are the walks outside the town, and none are without beauty or interest, for, the neighbourhood
of Syracuse excepted, we can think of no place in Italy wherein one is brought so closely into
touch with the classical past. Nature has long clothed the ruined area of the ancient city
with her kindly drapery of foliage and flowers, so that the crumbling masses of tawny brick
that we come across in our rambles are all swathed in garlands of clematis, myrtle, honey-suckle
and coronella. It is a delight to speculate upon the original use and appearance of these shapeless
blocks of creeper-clad masonry, which attract the eye on all sides amidst the vineyards and
orange groves, where the peasants delving in the rich soil frequently alight upon treasures
of the antique world. What a delight it is to wander through the Street of Tombs—alas, long
rifled of their contents!—where the gay valerian and the pink silene sprout from every fissure
of the soft tufa rock, and lizards of unusual size and brilliancy play games of hide-and-seek
in the warm sunshine. We moderns are afraid of graveyards and the paraphernalia of the dead:
many a stout-hearted Englishman objects to passing through a church-yard at night; not so the
pagan Romans, who placed their cemeteries in public places and were wont to proceed through
lines of tombs as they entered the city of the living: a very salutary and practical reminder
of the transitory nature of life itself. The whole neighbourhood in short is sprinkled with
these memorials of Imperial Rome; there is not an orange or lemon orchard but stands above
some forgotten villa, not an acre of tilth but must conceal some hidden mine of classical associations.
Charming too are the walks by the sea-shore—now sadly disfigured by the Cantiere Armstrong,
with its smoke and ugliness looking like a dirty smudge upon the delicate landscape of the
Bay—for here again we find endless traces of the Imperial age. There can be no more fascinating
employment than to wander along the beach after one of the heavy winter storms that so often
vex the quiet of the Bay of Naples, and to search for fragments of precious marbles that have
been spied by the waves amidst the sunken foundations of Roman villas, and thence idly flung
upon the shore. Pieces of the choicest white Parian, squares of speckled Egyptian porphyry,
of verde, rosso and giallo antico, of the coal-black Africano, all wet and glistening from
the waves, can be picked up by the quick-sighted, and the gathering of these beautiful trifles,
cut and polished by skilled hands nearly two thousand years ago, makes an interesting occupation.
Nor is its classical lore the only feature of the Bay of Baiae, for though its actual scenery
cannot compare with the grandeur of Capri nor its vegetation with the rich luxuriance of Sorrento,
yet these shores have a quiet beauty of their own. Vine, olive and almond abound on all sides,
and everywhere we see the groves of orange and lemon that in spring time scent the air with
their perfumed blossoms. And in the early months of the year every patch of warm-coloured,
up-turned earth is gay with sheets of that beautiful but rapacious weed, hated of the peasant,
the oxalis, with its clusters of pale yellow flowers: a species of sorrel that is allied to
our own white-blossomed variety. From many a point on the little ridges that rise behind Pozzuoli
magnificent views can be obtained, whilst to those who care to study the scientific results
of volcanic action the Phlegraean Fields afford endless occupation and interest. Every one
of course visits the Solfatara, that curious semi-extinct crater, the Forum Vulcani of Strabo,
which has remained for over seven hundred years in its present condition of languor. A strange
experience it is to enter the heart of a volcano that is still comparatively active, and to
observe woods of poplar and a large pine tree beneath which grow masses of spring flowers—bright
blue bugloss, the crimson vetch, starch hyacinths, purple self-heal, and golden spurge—and
to pass from these thickets on to a space of bare white-coloured ground that trembles and sways
under the feet like a sheet of insecure ice. Beyond, one sees the little fissures (fumaroli)
emitting fumes of sulphur, and the guides take us to stifling caverns in the hill-side where
we are shown the beautiful primrose-coloured crystals. The Solfatara, the Amphitheatre and
the Temple of Serapis, these are the recognised “sights” of Pozzuoli, which strangers visit
to-day in the space of an hour or two, and then return to Naples comforted with the feeling
that they have exhausted the attractions of the place. Certainly their reception in the town
is not likely to inspire them with a wish to return, for the guides and touts swarm here more
than in any other spot in Italy; “until he has spent half an hour in Pozzuoli,” says the author
of Dolce Napoli, “let no man say that he understands the signification of the verb to pester.”

Putting aside even the objectionable habits of so many of its citizens, it cannot be said that
the town itself of Pozzuoli to-day is particularly attractive, although its situation on the
Bay of Baiae is charming and its quays are full of picturesque life and movement. Lines of
irregular yellow-washed buildings, with faded green persiani and balconies draped with the
domestic washing, with here and there a domed rococo church, look down upon the clear tideless
waters that gently lap the ancient stone-work of the Mole, whilst a mixed crowd of fishermen
with bare bronzed limbs, of chattering women with gay handkerchiefs tied over their thick black
hair, and of blue uniformed dapper little customs officers,—lupi marini (wolves of the sea)
as the poor people facetiously term these revenue officials of the coast—loiter in the sunlight
amidst the piles of tawny fishing nets or the pyramids of golden oranges. From the quay we
make our way to the Largo del Municipio, a typical square of a provincial town in the South,
enclosed by shabby houses and adorned by a couple of stunted date-palms and a battered marble
fountain, around which numberless children and some slatternly women noisily converse or dispute.
There is an old proverb in the South, that a good housewife has no need to know any thoroughfares
save those leading to her church and her fountain, and as conversation cannot well be carried
on in the former, it is the daily visits to the well that usually afford the required opportunity
for exchange of gossip or for the picking of quarrels. Two statues decorate this unlovely but
not uninteresting space; one is that of a Spanish bishop, Leon y Cardeñas, one of King Philip
the Third’s viceroys, which serves as a reminder of the many vicissitudes this classic land
has experienced in the course of history:—Phoenician, Greek, Carthaginian, Roman, Barbarian,
Norman, German, French, Spanish conquerors have all left “footprints on the sands of Time”
in the coveted land of the Siren, which all have possessed in turn but none have held in perpetuity.
His Excellency the Bishop Cardeñas stands therefore in the open as a solid memento of the glory
that once was Spain, when half Europe and all America owned the sway of the Catholic King.
The second statue, though not a thing of beauty, has always had the attraction of an unsolved
puzzle, for we cannot decide whether it proves a complete absence or an abundant superfluity
of humour in the Puteolani of to-day. It is the figure of a Roman senator, vested in his flowing
toga, and owning (as the ancient inscription informs us) the grandiose name of Quintus Flavius
Mavortius Lollianus, whose marble trunk was one of the earliest archaeological “finds” made
in the excavations at Pozzuoli some two hundred years ago. Since the statue lacked a head and
was otherwise of no especial value as a work of art, the Viceroy of Naples very generously
presented this object to the place of its discovery, whose citizens, doubtless thinking the
appearance of the headless statue uncanny, popped a stray antique occiput (of which a goodly
number, more or less mutilated, are constantly brought to light by the peasants) upon Lollianus’
vacant shoulders. Anything more comical and at the same time more repellent than this hybrid
statue it would be impossible to imagine, yet Lollianus of the unknown head remains a favourite
with the people of Pozzuoli. Leaving the Largo del Municipio, with its weird senator and its
dusty palms, we ascend by a zigzag lane between tall featureless houses to the Cathedral of
San Proculo, which occupies the site of a temple of Augustus, that once dominated the ancient
city and harbour below. Within, the cathedral of Proculus, who was a companion of St Januarius
and a fellow-martyr, is gaudy and painted, one of those dismally gorgeous ecclesiastical interiors
that are such a disappointment to the antiquarian in Southern Italy. In opposition to the memorial
of Spanish conquest in the square below, we find here an elaborate monument to a French viceroy,
the Duke of Montpensier, who served for some time as Governor of Naples after Charles VIII.’s
capture of the city. Except the tomb of the young musician Pergolese, who composed the original
Stabat Mater there is little else to see, and we gladly ascend the tower in order to gain a
bird’s eye view of the town from a point of vantage whither noisy coachmen, troublesome beggars
and impudent ragamuffins cannot pursue. Captured by the Greek colonists of Cumae, who gave
the city the name of Dicoearchia instead of its ancient one of Puteoli,—a corruption, perhaps,
of the Syriac word petuli (contention)—this old Hellenic settlement was rechristened Puteoli
by the conquering Romans, under whose beneficent rule the place rapidly aspired to wealth and
prosperity. With the rise however of Naples, the fame of Puteoli began to grow dim, and its
importance to decline, although throughout Imperial times it ranked after Ostia as the chief
victualling port of Rome. And of the two celebrated cities which adorned the shores of this
Bay in classical times, Puteoli was the seat of commerce, and Baiae the resort of pleasure
and luxury; yet both were doomed to dwindle and almost perish in the disastrous years that
followed the break-up of the Empire. The invading hordes of Germany, the raids of Saracen pirates,
and the constant presence of malaria on this deserted coast were sufficient causes in themselves
to reduce in the course of time the thriving port of Puteoli to the squalid town of to-day.
From our lofty post we can easily distinguish the limits of the city in the days of Tiberius
and Caligula, for to the north we turn our faces towards the ruined bulk of the Amphitheatre,
now lying amidst fields and gardens, but well within the town walls at the time when Nero entertained
the Armenian king Tiridates and shocked his Asiatic guest by himself descending into the arena
and deftly performing the usual disgusting feats of a professional gladiator. To westward lies
the Bay of Baiae, a semi-circle of glittering water surrounded by low hills amidst which the
Monte Nuovo, unknown to the ancients, stands conspicuous. How completely have all traces of
splendour and extravagance disappeared from these shores! At fashionable Baiae across the Bay
there is nothing visible save a few shapeless ruins over the identity of which scholars dispute;
at busy Puteoli there survive to-day but the ruined Amphitheatre, the Temple of Serapis, and
the arches of the famous Mole, to prove to wondering posterity how great were the wealth, the
population and the magnificence of a spot which is closely associated with all the power and
culture of the Roman Empire in its zenith.

Of the various fragments of antiquity that are still standing in this district of the Phlegrean
Fields, the Mole of Puteoli is undoubtedly the best preserved and the most interesting. So
splendidly constructed is this relic of the past, that but for continuous shocks of earthquake
the whole breakwater must have survived intact; as it is, more than half the Mole has withstood
the wear and tear of centuries of wind and storm. It is built on the model of a Greek pier,
a series of arches of massive masonry, acting at once as a barrier against the force of the
invading waves and as a means of preventing the silting of the sand. Formed of brick, faced
with stone, and cemented with the local volcanic sand, which is consequently known as puzzolana,
this wonderful breakwater must originally have stretched out into the Bay a total length of
twenty-five arches, its furthest extremity being crowned by a light-house. If we could only
call up in imagination the Bay of Baiae in the days of the Empire, when its shores were fringed
by sumptuous villas of famous or infamous Romans and its expanse was thickly covered with every
variety of vessel of pleasure or merchandise, instead of the few fishing boats that now and
again flit across its glassy surface, we might better be able to realise the extraordinary
episode which is connected with this classical fragment in the little port of Pozzuoli below
us. For it was from the Mole of Puteoli to the spit of land we see on the western shore opposite
that the demented tyrant, Caius Caligula, constructed his historic bridge of boats across the
Baiaean gulf. Every large vessel in the surrounding harbours had been pressed into the service
of the Emperor for this gigantic piece of folly, so that the inhabitants of Rome were seriously
inconvenienced by the detention of their corn ships, and loud in consequence were the complaints
of the Roman populace, for whose anger, it is needless to state, the Emperor cared not a fig.
“History,” says Gibbon, “is but a record of the crimes, follies and misfortunes of mankind;”
and this smiling Bay of Baiae will ever be memorable as the scene of what was perhaps the worst
exhibition of tyrannical caprice that the world has yet witnessed.

Using a double line of vessels well yoked together as a compact and solid base, the Emperor
now gave orders for a military road of the usual Roman type to be constructed of planks of
timber covered with earth and paved with hewn stones. When this stupendous work was completed,
the usual station-houses were erected at various intervals, and fresh water was laid on by
means of pipes connected with the Imperial cisterns at Misenum. Upon this broad road, laid
across the Baiaean Gulf, the young Emperor now advanced on horseback, followed by his whole
army clad in array of battle. Caligula on this occasion wore a historic coat of armour studded
with rare gems that had once belonged to Alexander the Great; a jewelled sword was fastened
to his thigh, and a crown of oak leaves bound his temples. Solemnly the Emperor and his army
crossed the broad expanse of water on dry land and entered Puteoli with mock honours of war.
After remaining a day in the port to refresh his victorious troops, the Emperor was driven
back in a splendidly equipped chariot, which was surrounded by a number of pretended captives
of rank, some noble Parthian hostages being utilised for the occasion. At the centre of the
bridge the procession halted, and the crazy prince next indulged in an absurd bombastic harangue,
wherein he congratulated his soldiers on their glorious campaign just concluded, and declared
to them that the famous feats of Xerxes and Darius had at length been surpassed. Finally, he
invited his troops to a magnificent banquet upon this bridge of boats, an entertainment which
lasted till far into the night and was accompanied by lavish illuminations by land and sea.
As might only have been expected, the feast soon degenerated into a drunken orgy, wherein every
guest from the Master of the Roman world to his meanest soldier became intoxicated, whilst
many persons in their cups lost their balance and fell into the waters, so that the sounds
of music and revelry throughout the midnight hours were mingled with groans and cries of drowning
men close at hand.

Apart from its senseless extravagance and innate folly, the story of the bridging of the Baiaean
Gulf, of this harnessing of old Ocean, affects us moderns with astonishment at the extraordinary
thoroughness of all the ancient Roman feats of engineering; had this high road across the Bay
been intended to serve any useful purpose, instead of merely to satisfy the passing whim of
a selfish tyrant, we could have had no choice but to admire the marvellous speed of the artificers
and the completeness of the scheme undertaken.

Quarter of a century later, and the Mole of Puteoli was destined to become the scene of another
event in the world’s history, which has left a far more enduring impression on mankind than
the so-called miracle of Caligula. In the early spring of the year 62 A.D. there dropped anchor
in the port a certain Alexandrian corn-ship, the Castor and Pollux, coming from Malta after
touching at Syracuse and Rhegium (Reggio) on her way northward. Unnoticed amidst the vast phalanx
of shipping that lined the Mole and filled the broad harbour of Puteoli, the vessel emptied
her cargo on the quay, whilst there also disembarked from her hold a number of prisoners of
no great social consequence, who were on their way to Rome under the guardianship of a kindly
old centurion, named Julius, belonging to the cohort Prima Augusta Italica. Amongst the persons
under Julius’ charge was a Jew named Paul, who was accompanied by three of his friends, Timothy,
Luke and Aristarchus of Thessalonica, and all four, thanks to the kindness of the centurion,
who was evidently much attached to his exemplary captive, were permitted to remain at this
spot for seven days. Paul himself was anxious to tarry at this spot, for of all the Italian
ports Puteoli was most frequented by men of his own nation, so that the city possessed its
little community of Christians, who naturally were eager to detain the Apostle. So hopelessly
intermingled are truth, tradition and legend concerning the various places on Italian soil
that St Paul is known to have visited, that we cannot be too grateful for the undoubted link
with his journey to Rome that we possess in the existing Mole of Puteoli, whose surface has
undoubtedly been trodden by the sandalled feet of the great Apostle of the West. Here Paul
landed amid the haughty scenes of Roman pride and power; above him he saw the pagan Temple
of Augustus, all gleaming with marble and gilded bronze that were mirrored in the calm waters
of the port: along this famous causeway he passed, unmarked by the busy crowd, except perhaps
to be mocked by some idler for his nationality or his halting speech. Guided by Christian compatriots,
the Apostle with his three faithful friends was led through the noisy jostling concourse of
all countries that thronged the great Roman city to the humble dwelling of his host. Where
he lodged in that mighty city we know not, but we do know for a certain fact that he landed
on the Mole, and that he passed along it to the shore; it is not much, perhaps, but that little
is very precious.

What a contrast do these two incidents connected with the Mole of Puteoli afford! The Roman
Emperor, glittering like the morning star in purple mantle and jewelled cuirass, riding on
his charger across the solid road that to humour his own caprice had been flung across the
buoyant waters, accompanied by soldiery, by music, and by bands of wealthy sycophants; and
the Apostle, poor, in bonds, a despised prisoner in an alien land, meekly threading his way
through the crowds towards his mean lodging. Where is the proud Temple of Augustus that beheld
these two strange scenes, that occurred with no great interval of time apart? Where are the
villas and quays that lined the Bay of Baiae? The very ruins of the palaces and warehouses
are swept away; the gorgeous temple is a Christian Cathedral dedicated to a follower of the
despised Jewish captive; the name of Caligula lives but in human execration, whilst that of
the Apostle is enshrined in the hearts of the whole Christian world.

                               * * * * * *

It is but a three-mile walk along the beach from Pozzuoli to Baiae, passing beside the Lucrine
Lake and the southern slope of the Monte Nuovo, which always seems to us a far more wonderful
freak of Nature than the Solfatara. Here we have a miniature mountain, a mile and a half round
its base and nearly five hundred feet high, that was made in the course of a single night,
and is to-day less than four hundred years old! The presence of this brand-new intruder on
the shore of the Baiaean Gulf must ever remain a wholesome warning to all dwellers on these
coasts, that their tenure of King Pluto’s dominions is very insecure. One morning towards the
close of September 1538, after some days of earthquake shocks, “Pozzuoli awoke,” says the flippant
Alexandre Dumas, “and on looking about did not recognise herself! She had left a lake the evening
before, and lo! she found a mountain; where she had owned a forest, she found ashes; and last
of all, where she had left a village, she perceived no trace!”

In one sense Dumas’ facetious description is correct: the New Mountain was born with extraordinary
celerity, and woods, lake and village—familiar and beloved landmarks to the people of Baiae
and Pozzuoli—disappeared at its birth. But the event was no peaceful act of Nature; on the
contrary, it was accompanied by loud rumblings, by showers of red-hot stones, by clouds of
smoke, by torrents of scalding water, and by the retreating of the sea, which left thousands
of fish lying helpless on the exposed shore. The village of Tripergola, a summer pleasaunce
of the Angevin kings of Naples, and many traces of ancient Roman villas and engineering works,
all perished in this notable cataclysm. Four eye-witnesses have left us details of this strange
scene of desolation, whilst only a few days after Mother Earth had brought forth this new mountain,
one of them, the Spanish Viceroy of Naples, the valiant Don Pedro of Toledo, owned sufficient
pluck and curiosity to make the ascent of the Monte Nuovo, still smoking hot and reeking of
sulphur. Who can tell when this parvenu volcano may spout forth fire and ashes? Would any sane
person have the courage ever to settle within range of a possible eruption? No, the Phlegrean
fields are interesting to visit, but he must require a strong nerve who would fain dwell beneath
the shadow of this dormant crater.

It is a very short walk from the base of the Monte Nuovo to the “golden shores” of Imperial
Baiae, which is certainly not an imposing place in these days. What with the destroying hand
of time and the still more obliterating action of the neighbouring volcano, there is little
left for the fancy to build upon; certainly the three ruined shells that are called temples
by courtesy, but served probably a much humbler purpose than that of worship, are not particularly
striking. It requires not only a good classical knowledge, but also no small amount of imagination
to picture the Baiae of the Roman poets.

“If Pozzuoli has gone down in the world, still more so Baiae. It does not require any more
sinking; it is low enough as it is, so low that some of its ancient villas and palaces can
only be visited in a diving-bell. So dreary and deserted is the site, that at first glance
the visitor feels mightily inclined to question the veracity of the historian, and to doubt
whether Baiae—Baiae the gay, the fashionable, the dissolute, the beloved of emperors, statesmen
and poets—ever existed. But when he is shown the enormous sub-structures lying under water,
and the masses of solid masonry wherewith the surrounding hills are over-spread, incredulity
gives place to amazement. What towns of lath and plaster are Brighton, Newport and Trouville,
when compared with this ‘Rome by the sea,’ where the materials used for the foundations of
a single villa would more than suffice for the construction of a dozen ‘genteel marine residences’
of the modern style! What would a Roman architect think of the card-board streets and squares,
and the stucco crescents and terraces, of an English watering-place? of those ‘eligible family
mansions’ wherein dancing is dangerous, and to venture on whose balconies is perilous in the
extreme? Echo answers: ‘What!’ ”(13)

Here on this desolate strip of sea-shore, now dominated by the Spanish viceroy’s frowning fortress
on the hill above, the great and opulent of ancient Rome founded a city composed wholly of
palaces. Here were no noisy market-places to annoy aristocratic nerves; no slums to afflict
plutocratic nostrils; no families of the proletariat to disturb the refined senses of the jaded
pleasure-seekers who retired hither in the winter months. A writer, from whom we have just
quoted, makes comparison between Baiae and Brighton or Trouville; but in reality the fashionable
American resort of Newport has more in common with the old classical watering-place than any
modern European sea-side resort. The hot sulphur baths on the Lucrine shore formed of course
only a shallow excuse for the annual migration of Roman fashionables to Baiae, where blue-blooded
senators and pushing plutocrats indulged in fierce social struggles for individual pre-eminence.
Yet certain of the natural warm springs had been enclosed in splendid buildings, and were used
by the luxurious citizens, so that even to-day the Thermae of Nero (Stufe di Nerone) are pointed
out by the local guides. “Quid Nerone pejus? Quid thermis melius Neronianis?” (what is worse
than Nero? yet what more beneficent than his baths?) asks the poet Martial, whose name will
ever be bound up with the tales of luxury and vice that are associated with this spot. Baiae
in winter, Tibur (Tivoli) in summer, the two names stand for the beau-ideal of a Roman existence,
the cynosure of every wealthy citizen.

But let us ascend out of the close and enervating air of low-lying Baiae to the breezy heights
of Misenum, which has immortalised the name of the Trojan trumpeter whose end was mourned by
the tears of pious Aeneas himself. In gaining its summit and in gazing upon the landscape spread
around us, we have penetrated, so it seems, into the very heart of Italy: not the Italy of
Roman history, but the land of Ausonia itself, the fabled shore that the Trojan hero sailed
at his goddess-mother’s bidding to discover, when all the world was young and the high dwellers
of Olympus still condescended to take a personal interest in the affairs of favourite mortals.
Surely the vine-clad terraces of Lake Avernus, the pools of the Lucrine and the Mare Morto,
the verdure-clad hillocks lying beneath us must conceal the true secret of the antique Tyrrhenian
country, in whose history the rise and fall of Roman power afford but one amongst many epochs.
Looking to northward, beyond the little landing-stage of Torregaveta, we behold the heights
of Cumae, that was a flourishing city with harbour and citadel hundreds of years before a certain
Romulus built a wall of mud near the banks of Tiber and slew his brother Remus for leaping
over his handiwork. The founding of Rome is enveloped in impenetrable clouds of legend; the
building of Cumae is a fact:—here then we obtain a key to Italian history. Rome, whose origin
is lost in mists of obscurity, is a flourishing modern capital; Cumae is but a shapeless mass
of crumbling ruins, overgrown with ivy and cytizus, and inhabited by lizards and serpents.
But both cities, dead Cumae and living Rome, present but passing events in the long slow progress
of the centuries, which have witnessed successive phases of civilisation and destruction in this

  “Woman-country, wooed, not won,
  Loved all the more by Earth’s male lands,
     Laid to their hearts instead.”

Is the Genius of Italy, the Sibyl of Cumae, still living, we wonder, in some dim recess, some
secret cavern of Cimmerian gloom, beneath those decaying heaps of the ancient Greek city? She
was old, very old, we know, when pious Aeneas found her shrieking her strange prophecies, and
that was long ages before Hellenic wanderers raised a fortress upon the wooded heights above
the dread lake of Avernus.—Venerable Mother of Italy! dost thou still survive muttering thy
strange warnings in some sunless labyrinth, that the rapacious guides of Baiae have yet failed
to penetrate? Art thou, like King Arthur of romantic Wales, still keeping watch over the destiny
of thy country, ever ready to assist in the hour of need? With prophetic mien the Sibyl of
Cumae, that Michelangelo depicted, watches ever the come-and-go of humanity from her lofty
post within Pope Sixtus’ Chapel, bidding all remember her ancient prophecy of the Judgment
Day, which the Roman Church has included in one of its most solemn canticles:

  “Dies Irae! Dies illa!
  Solvet saeclum in favilla,
  Teste David cum Sibylla.”

                                  INDEX

      Abbondanza, Via dell’, 51
      Abruzzi Mountains, 36, 122, 222
      Acre, 270
      Adrian IV., Pope, 156
      Agerola, 123
      Agropoli, 209
      Alberada, 181
      Albergo Cappuccini, 128
      Alcubier, 11
      Aleppo, 121
      Alexander of Epirus, 206
      Alexandria, 121
      Alexius, Emperor, 179
      Alfonso, Duke of Ferrara, 242
      Algiers, 56
      Alphonso V. of Naples, 277
      Amalfi, 5, 36, 100, 106, 112, 126
      Ana-Capri, 249, 259, 271
      Angelo, Monte S., 28, 30, 63, 76
      Annunziata, Torre, 19, 92, 94
      Aosta, Duke and Duchess of, 93, 94
      Appian Way, 62
      Apulia, 181
      —— William of, 135
      Arabia, 134
      Arco, 106
      Arguth, Joseph, 292
      Ariosto, Ludovico, 239
      Aristarchus, 312
      Arno, 2
      Arnold of Brescia, 156
      Arriengo, 123
      Arthur, King, 318
      Athens, 28, 39, 58
      Atrani, 152
      Atrio del Cavallo, 77
      Augustus, Emperor, 59, 69
      —— Temple of, 313
      Aulus Vettius, Corvina, 55
      —— —— Restitutus, 40, 55
      Ausonius, 208
      Avicenna, 177
      Avvocata, Madonna dell’, 166

      Baghdad, 121
      Bagnoli, 296
      Baiae, 253, 307
      Bajalardo, Pietro, 117
      Barbary, 209
      Barisanus of Trani, 159
      Barra, La, 8
      Battipaglia, 198
      Bembo, Cardinal, 282
      Benevento, 111
      Bergamo, 240
      Berkeley, Bishop, 293
      Bismarck, 186
      Boccaccio, 137, 157
      Bohemond, 179
      Bomba, King, 6, 8, 16, 109, 284
      Bosco-Trecase, 92, 97
      Bowdler, Mr, 81
      Braccini, Abate, 77
      Breakspear, Nicholas, 156
      Browning, R., 33, 36, 183
      Brunetto Latini, 121
      Butomilea, Landolfo, 182
      Byzantium, 118, 142

      Caecilius Jucundus, 40
      Cairo, 121
      Caligula, Emperor, 5, 308
      Camaldoli, 18, 270
      Campagna Felice, 66
      Campanella, Punta della, 112
      Canneto, 132, 140
      Canossa, 180, 186
      Capaccio, 209, 262
      Capodimonte, 2
      Capri, 4, 5, 13, 45, 63, 74, 90, 112, 249
      Capua, 66
      Capuano, Cardinal Pietro, 126, 143
      Caracciolo, 2
      Cardeñas, Bishop, 305
      Cariteo, 277
      “Carlo il Zoppo,” 102, 103, 121
      Carmine, Church of the, 105
      Casamicciola, 284
      Casa Nuova, 53
      Castellamare, 18, 25, 26, 100, 113
      Castor and Pollux, The, 311
      Cathay, 121
      Cava, La, 113
      Celestine V., Pope, 292
      Cellini, Benvenuto, 27
      Cephalonia, 180
      Cerrato, Monte, 168
      Cetara, 134, 170
      Chalcidicum, 49
      Charles III. of Naples, 8
      —— VIII. of France, 307
      —— of Anjou, 102, 156, 167
      Chiabrera, 89
      Chiaja, 2
      Chiosse, Monte di, 119
      Cicero, 40
      Clement VIII., Pope, 167
      Clementia, Princess, 102
      Clodius Glabrus, 70
      Cluny, 184
      Colonna, Giuliano, 104
      —— Vittoria, 5, 277
      Conca, Capo di, 125
      Concordia Augusta, 51
      Conradin, 156
      Constantinople, 80, 134
      Coppola, Monte, 28, 167
      Corniche Road, 100
      Costantinopoli, Strada, 2
      Crassus, 70
      Cumae, 4, 317

      Damecuta, 261
      Dante, 120, 121, 239, 278
      Devonshire, 107
      Domenichino, 161
      Domitiana, Via, 62
      Dragone, 152
      Dumas, A., 9, 314
      Durazzo, 178

      Eboli, 198
      Elbœuf, Prince d’, 11
      Epidius Rufus, 40
      Epirus, 178
      Etna, 77, 291
      Eumachia, 40, 49
      Exeter, 40

      Faito, Monte, 37
      Falerio, Monte, 170
      Faliero, Marino, 103
      Farnese, Elizabeth, 27
      —— Pier-Luigi, 5, 27
      Ferdinand, King, 27, 270, 277
      Ferrara, 240, 248
      Filangieri, 103
      Fiorelli, Signor, 53
      Florence, 2, 112, 132, 148
      Florus, 70
      Forio, 289
      Forsyth, J., 181
      Francis, King, 109
      Frederick II., Emperor, 27, 210
      Fuga, 159
      Fuorigrotta, 295
      Furore, 123

      Gaeta, 16, 36
      —— Bay of, 4
      Galen, 106, 177
      Garibaldi, 6
      Gaurus, Mons, 57, 76
      Gavinius, 208
      Gazola, Count, 211
      Gell, Sir William, 44
      Genoa, 157
      Gibbon, Edward, 175, 309
      Gioja, Flavio, 119
      Glaucus, 261
      Goethe, 13, 212
      Gragnano, 20
      Greco, Torre del, 8, 13, 18, 77
      Gregory VII., Pope, 178
      Grotta Azzurra, 259
      Grotta Verde, 262
      Guallo, 116
      Guiscard, Robert, 5, 136, 155, 174
      Gurgitello, 285

      Hale, Sir Matthew, 110
      Hamill, Major, 271
      Hamilton, Sir William, 80
      Hare, Augustus, 7
      Hart, Emma, 80
      Hauteville, House of, 174
      Helbig, 44
      Hélène, Princess, 94
      Henry IV., Emperor, 180
      Herculaneum, 1, 9
      —— Gate of, 62
      Hermolaus, 162
      Hildebrand, 5, 180, 182, 184
      Hippocrates, 177
      Hohenstaufen, 163
      Homer, 114
      House of the Surgeon, 43, 56
      —— Vettii, 53

      Innocent IV., Pope, 152
      Ischia, 4, 13, 78, 241, 252, 275

      Joanna II., Queen, 144, 299
      John XVI., Pope, 167
      John of Procida, 184
      Julius the Centurion, 311
      Jupiter, Temple of, 52
      Justinian, Emperor, 135

      Keats, John, 229

      La Barra, 8
      La Cava, 172, 198
      La Scala, 166
      Lacaita, Mr, 262
      Lacco, 288
      Lactarian Hills, 101
      Ladislaus II., King, 299
      Lamarque, Gen., 271
      Lauretta, 157
      Lavoro, Terra di, 18
      Lenormant, F., 214
      Leo XIII., Pope, 288
      Leonora d’Este, 243, 248
      Leopardi, Giacomo, 295
      Lepanto, 246
      Libella, 64
      Livia, 50
      Livy, 73
      Lowe, Sir Hudson, 271
      Lubrense, Massa, 122
      Lucrine Lake, 313
      Ludius, 59
      Luke, 312

      Maddalena, Ponte della, 84
      Majori, 166
      Malta, 311
      Mammia, 64
      Manches, Colonel, 273
      Manfred, King, 87, 152, 184
      Manso, 243
      Mansone II., Doge, 118
      Macellum, 52
      Marcellus II., Pope, 280
      Margaret of Durazzo, 189
      Marina, Porta, 39, 45
      Martin V., Pope, 277
      Matteucci, Professor, 94, 97
      Matilda, Countess, 185
      Mau, 44
      Maurice, 142
      Maximian, Emperor, 162
      Melfi, 133
      Mercato, Il, 2, 96
      Mercury, Temple of, 52
      Mergellina, 96
      Messina, 91
      Meta, 106
      Metastasio, 8
      Michelangelo, 283, 319
      Milan, 278
      Minerva, Cape of, 112, 117, 153
      Minori, 166
      Misenum, 71, 74, 249
      Mole of Puteoli, 308
      Monreale, 159
      Mont’ Epomeo, 290
      Montapertuso, 119
      Monte Nuovo, 313
      Montorio, S. Pietro in, 2
      Montpensier, Duke of, 307
      Murat, Joachim, 5, 8, 270
      Muscettola, Sergio, 159
      Museo Nazionale, 1

      Naccarino, 145
      Napoleon, 8, 270
      Natale, Michele, 103
      Nelson, 104, 269
      Neptune, Temple of, 212
      Nero, Emperor, 308
      Nicholas II., Pope, 176, 185
      Nicomedia, 162
      Nisida, 297
      Nola, 41
      Nuceria, 41, 173

      Ochino, Bernardino, 280
      Oliveto, Monte, 96
      Orico, 271
      Orlando, Capo d’, 102
      Oscan inhabitants, 41
      Otranto, 178
      Ottajano, 94, 98
      Overbeck, 44
      Ovid, 106, 261, 291
      Oxford, 156

      Paestum, 41, 57, 143, 173, 182, 198
      Palermo, 91, 159
      Palumbo, 155
      Pansa, the Ædile, 40
      Pantaleone, 142, 148, 161
      Paolo Giovio, 278
      Paris, Comte de, 94
      Parthenope, 249
      Paul III., Pope, 27
      Pavia, 279
      Pedimentina, La, 77
      Pericles, 40
      Pescara, Marquis of, 278
      Petrarch, 116, 138, 239, 299
      Philip the Bold, 102
      Phillips, John, 68
      Philodemus, 10
      Piacenza, 185
      Pimentel, Eleonora, 104
      Piperno, Pietro, 111
      Pisa, 136
      Pistoja, 240
      Pius II., Pope, 27, 144
      Plato, 58
      Pliny, 59, 71, 76
      Pliny the younger, 71
      Plutarch, 70
      Pole, Cardinal, 280
      Pompeii, 1, 5, 24, 38
      Pomponianus, 72
      Pontone, 152
      Portici, 8, 80, 88, 97
      Porzia de’ Rossi, 240
      Posilipo, 1, 8, 37, 295
      Positano, 119
      Pozzano, 37
      Pozzopiano, 106
      Pozzuoli, 109, 301
      Prajano, 124
      Procida, 4, 237, 275
      Puteoli, 5, 295

      Quisisana, 27, 37

      Ravello, 134, 152
      Reggio, 311
      Reid, Mr, 156, 262
      Renée, Duchess of Ferrara, 280
      Resina, 8, 79, 88, 98
      Retina, 8, 72
      Revigliano, 26
      Rhegium, 311
      Robert of Normandy, 178
      —— the Wise, 116, 156
      Roger, Count, 155, 180
      —— King, 116, 136
      Rome, 39, 94, 144, 156, 180, 312
      Ruffo, Cardinal, 104
      Rufolo, Niccolò, 155, 160

      S. Agnello, 106
      S. Alessio al Lavinaio, 105
      S. Angelo, 13, 119, 122
      S. Bridget of Sweden, 144
      S. Brigida, 3
      S. Chiara, 2
      S. Costanzo, 251
      S. Elia, Punta, 117
      S. Elmo, 2, 67
      S. Francis of Assisi, 144
      S. Gennaro, 298
      S. Giovanni a Teduccio, 8
      S. Giovanni del Toro, 164
      S. Giuseppe, 94
      S. Luca, 124
      S. Lucia, 3
      S. Maria a Pozzano, 102
      S. Maria del Gradillo, 162
      S. Maria di Pompeii, 65
      S. Martino, 2
      S. Matteo, 173, 181
      S. Michael, 35
      S. Miniato, 2
      S. Paul, 312
      S. Pietro, Punta di, 123
      S. Proculo, 307
      S. Restituta, 291
      S. Romualdo, 19
      S. Salvatore a Bireta, 153
      S. Trinità, 172
      S. Vitale, 296
      Salerno, 4, 36, 111, 117, 133, 172
      Samnite Hills, 212
      Sannazzaro, 295
      Sanseverini, 169
      Sardinia, 15
      Sarno, 26, 41, 95
      Scala, 134, 167
      Scaletta, 152
      Scaricotojo, Lo, 113, 118
      Scutolo, Punta di, 106
      Sebeto, 8
      Sejanus, 256
      Serapis, Temple of, 308
      Serra, Gennaro, 104
      Shelley, 13, 33, 64
      Shrewsbury, 40
      Sibyl of Cumae, 318
      Sicily, 15
      Sigilgaita, 161, 179
      Silarus, 198
      Sirens, Isles of the, 114
      Sixtus IV., Pope, 318
      Smith, Sir Sydney, 270
      Soana, 184
      Socrates, 40
      Solaro, 268
      Soldan, 246
      Somma, Monte, 67, 94, 99
      Sorrentine Plain, 5, 106
      Sorrento, 5, 90, 221
      Sottile, Cape, 123
      Spartacus, 69, 76
      Stabiae, 26, 72, 76
      Stamer, W. J. A., 16, 52, 238, 265, 316
      Staurachios, 142
      Stolberg, Count, 202
      Stowe, Mrs H. B., 16
      Strabo, 69, 275
      Strada Costantinopoli, 2
        „  de’ Tribunali, 3
      Stromboli, 91
      Suetonius, 256
      Syracuse, 58, 107, 311

      Tacca, 51
      Tacitus, 69, 71, 73
      Tafuri, Bishop, 159
      Tancred of Hauteville, 178, 180
      Tarver, J. C., 258
      Tasso, 5, 106, 145, 239
        „  Bernardo, 106, 240, 277
      Theocritus, 154, 292
      Thermae of Nero, 316
      Tiber, 116, 156
      Tiberius, Emperor, 5, 50, 253, 308
      Timgad, 38
      Timothy, 312
      Tiridates, 308
      Titian, 27
      Titus, Emperor, 10, 57, 71, 76
      Toledo, The, 2
      Torregaveta, 275, 317
      Trafalgar, 270
      Tragara, 263
      Tripoli, 15
      Tunis, 56, 246

      Ulysses, 114
      Urban IV., Pope, 144
      Ustica, 91

      Vaccaro, Il, 84
      Valentinian, Emperor, 208
      Valley of the Mills, 140, 149
      Venice, 103, 112, 134, 148
      Venosa, 181
      Venus, Temple of, 52
      Vergil, 208, 211, 275, 296
      Vesuvius, 5, 11, 36, 66
      Via Domitiana, 62
      Vico Equense, 31, 102, 103
      Victor III., Pope, 155
      Victor Emmanuel III., King of Italy, 94
      Vietri, 165, 171
      Vigna Sersale, 247
      Villa Jovis, 254
      Villa Reale, 2
      Vincenzo, 37
      Vitruvius, 60, 69
      Vittoria Colonna, 5, 277
      Vivara, 276
      Vomero, 3
      Vozzi Family, 127

      Wales, 107, 318
      William Bras-de-Fer, 174
      Wordsworth, 33
      Worms, 185

      Zampognari, 233
      Zoppo, Carlo il, 102, 103, 121

                                FOOTNOTES

    1 W. J. A. Stamer: Dolce Napoli.

    2 W. J. A. Stamer: Dolce Napoli.

    3 Professor John Phillips: Vesuvius.

    4 Pliny’s Letters. (Church’s and Brodribb’s Translation.)

    5 La Nazione, April 24, 1906.

    6 The Decameron. Novel IV. of the Second Day.

    7 The Decameron—Novel I, of the Fourth Day.

    8 F. Lenormant: A travers l’Apulie et la Lucanie.

    9 W. J. A. Stamer: Dolce Napoli.

   10 For an able defence of the Emperor Tiberius, the reader is referred
      to Mr J. C. Tarver’s Tiberius the Tyrant, chap. xviii.

   11 W. J. A. Stamer: Dolce Napoli.

   12 A portion of this chapter has already appeared in an article by the
      Author, entitled The Island of Ischia, in the Westminster
      Review, December 1905.

   13 W. J. A. Stamer: Dolce Napoli.

                            TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

The caption of two images (frontispiece, page 288) has been supplied from the List of Images.

The following obvious typographical errors have been corrected:

      page xi, “Republiques” changed to “Républiques”
      page 55, “castastrophe” changed to “catastrophe”
      page 90, quote mark added after “vendemmia?”
      page 158, footnote, italics added to “The Decameron”, removed from
      “Novel IV. of the Second Day”. (Other inconsistencies between the
      two citations of the Decameron were not changed.)
      page 159, “mosiac” changed to “mosaic”
      page 189, “gradully” changed to “gradually”
      page 206, “Pæstum” changed to “Paestum” (twice)
      page 212, “wheron” changed to “whereon”
      page 238, “circomstane” changed to “circomstance”
      page 241, double “the” removed
      page 275, “costing” changed to “coasting”
      page 300, “maledicton” changed to “malediction”
      page 301, “then” changed to “than”
      page 311, “aud” changed to “and”

In the Index, the following words have been changed to the spelling used in the main text:

      “Baiae” (was: “Baiæ”)
      “Caecilius Jucundus” (was: “Cæcilius”)
      “Cumae” (was: “Cumæ”)
      “Hohenstaufen” (was: “Hohenstauffen”)
      “Matteucci” (was: “Mateucci”)
      “Paestum” (was: “Pæstum”)
      “Pimentel” (was: “Pimental”)
      “Rufolo, Niccolò” (was: “Nicoló”)
      “Sannazzaro” (was: “Sannazaro”)
      “Stabiae” (was: “Stabiæ”)
      “Staurachios” (was: “Straurachios”)
      “Thermae of Nero” (was: “Thermæ”)
      “William Bras-de-Fer” (was: “Bras de Fer”)
      “Zoppo, Carlo il” (was: “Zoppo, Carlo Il”)

Apart from the index and two occurrences of “Pæstum” in the main text, all “æ” ligatures have
been maintained: “ædile” (and “aedile”), “archæologist” (and “archaeologist”), “æsthetic”,
“Cannæ”, “Mediæval” (in a quotation, otherwise “medieval”), “mærens”, “Prætor”, “tesseræ”.

Not changed or normalized were small errors in Italian or German quotations (“a riverderla”,
“Kultur-kampf”, “Bierhälle”), inconsistent hyphenation (e. g. “boat-man”/“boatman”, “sea-shore”/“seashore”),
spelling variations (“Phlegraean”/“Phlegrean”) and unusual spellings (“elegible” [in a quotation],
“pleisosaurus”, “innoculating”, “choregraphic”).