XV. XV.

PART III.--BOOK II. IV.--Continued.--From leaving New Zealand to our return to England,

SECT. A Voyage to the Pacific Ocean, undertaken by the Command of his Majesty, for making Discoveries
in the Northern Hemisphere; to determine the Position and Extent of the West Side of North
America, its Distance from Asia, and the Practicability of a Northern Passage to Europe. Performed
under the Direction of Captains Cook, Clerke, and Gore, in his Majesty's Ships the Resolution
and Discovery, in the Years 1776, 1777, 1778, 1779, & 1780,

Introduction,

CHAP. I. Transactions from the Beginning of the Voyage till our Departure from New Zealand,

SECT. I. Various Preparations for the Voyage. Omai's Behaviour on embarking. Observations for
determining the Longitude of Sheerness, and the North Foreland. Passage of the Resolution from
Deptford to Plymouth. Employments there. Complements of the Crews of both Ships, and Names
of the Officers. Observations to fix the Longitude of Plymouth. Departure of the Resolution,

II. Passage of the Resolution to Teneriffe. Reception there. Description of Santa Cruz Road.
Refreshments to be met with. Observations for fixing the Longitude of Teneriffe. Some Account
of the Island. Botanical Observations. Cities of Santa Cruz and Laguna, Agriculture. Air and
Climate. Commerce. Inhabitants,

III. Departure from Teneriffe. Danger of the Ship near Bonavista. Isle of Mayo. Port Praya.
Precautions against the Rain and sultry Weather in the Neighbourhood of the Equator. Position
of the Coast of Brazil. Arrival at the Cape of Good Hope. Transactions there. Junction of the
Discovery. Mr Anderson's Journey up the Country. Astronomical Observations. Nautical Remarks
on the Passage from England to the Cape, with regard to the Currents and the Variation,

SECT. IV. The two Ships leave the Cape of Good Hope. Two Islands, named Prince Edward's, seen,
and their Appearance described. Kerguelen's Land visited. Arrival in Christmas Harbour. Occurrences
there. Description of it,

V. Departure from Christmas Harbour. Range along the Coast, to discover its Position and Extent.
Several Promontories and Bays, and a Peninsula, described and named. Danger from Shoals, Another
Harbour and a Sound. Mr Anderson's Observations on the Natural Productions, Animals, Soil,
&c. of Kerguelen's Land,

VI. Passage from Kerguelen's to Van Diemen's Land. Arrival in Adventure Bay. Incidents there.
Interviews with the Natives. Their Persons and Dress described. Account of their Behaviour.
Table of the Longitude, Latitude, and Variation. Mr Anderson's Observations on the Natural,
Productions of the Country, on the Inhabitants, and their Language,

VII. The Passage from Van Diemen's Land to New Zealand. Employments in Queen Charlotte's Sound.
Transactions with the Natives there. Intelligence about the Massacre of the Adventure's Boat's
Crew. Account of the Chief who headed the Party on that Occasion. Of the two young Men who
embark to attend Omai. Various Remarks on the Inhabitants. Astronomical and Nautical Observations,

VIII. Mr Anderson's Remarks on the Country near Queen Charlotte's Sound. The Soil. Climate.
Weather. Winds. Trees. Plants. Birds. Fish. Other Animals. Of the Inhabitants. Description
of their Persons. Their Dress. Ornaments. Habitations. Boats. Food and Cookery. Arts. Weapons.
Cruelty to Prisoners. Various Customs. Specimen of their Language,

CHAP. II From leaving New Zealand to our Arrival at Otaheite, or the Society Islands,

Sect. I. Prosecution of the Voyage. Behaviour of the two New Zealanders on board. Unfavourable
Winds. An Island called Mangeea discovered. The Coast of it examined. Transactions with the
Natives. An Account of their Persons, Dress, and Canoes. Description of the Island. A Specimen
of the Language. Disposition of the Inhabitants,

II. The Discovery of an Island called Wateeoo. Its Coasts examined.--Visits from the Natives
on board the Ships. Mess, Gore, Burney, and Anderson, with Omai, sent on Shore. Mr Anderson's
Narrative of their Reception. Omai's Expedient to prevent their being detained. His meeting
with some of his Countrymen, and their distressful Voyage. Farther Account of Wateeoo, and
of its Inhabitants,

III. Wenooa-ette, or Otokootaia, visited. Account of that Island, and of its Produce. Hervey's
Island, or Terougge mou Attooa, found to be inhabited. Transactions with the Natives. Their
Persons, Dress, Language, Canoes. Fruitless Attempt to land there. Reason for bearing away
for the Friendly Islands. Palmerston's Island touched at. Description of the two Places where
the Boats landed. Refreshments obtained there. Conjectures on the Formation of such low Islands.
Arrival at the Friendly Islands,

IV. Intercourse with the Natives of Komango, and other Islands. Arrival at Annamooka. Transactions
there. Feenou, a principal Chief, from Tongataboo, comes on a Visit. The Manner of his Reception
in the Island, and on board. Instances of the pilfering Disposition of the Natives. Some Account
of Annamooka. The Passage from it to Hepaee,

V. Arrival of the Ships at Hepaee, and friendly Reception there. Presents and Solemnities on
the Occasion. Single Combats with Clubs. Wrestling and Boxing Matches. Female Combatants. Marines
exercised. A Dance performed by Men. Fireworks exhibited. The Night-entertainments of Singing
and Dancing particularly described,

SECT. VI. Description of Lefooga. Its cultivated State. Its Extent. Transactions there. A female
Oculist. Singular Expedients for shaving off the Hair. The Ships change their Station. A remarkable
Mount and Stone. Description of Hoolaiva. Account of Poulaho, King of the Friendly Islands.
Respectful Manner in which he is treated by his People. Departure from the Hepaee Islands.
Some Account of Kotoo. Return of the Ships to Annamooka. Poulaho and Feenou meet Arrival at
Tongataboo,

VII. Friendly Reception at Tongataboo. Manner of distributing a baked Hog and Kava to Poulaho's
Attendants. The Observatory, &c. erected. The Village where the Chiefs reside, and the adjoining
Country, described. Interviews with Mareewagee, and Toobou, and the King's Son. A grand Haiva,
or Entertainment of Songs and Dances, given by Mareewagee. Exhibition of Fireworks. Manner
of Wrestling and Boxing. Distribution of the Cattle. Thefts committed by the Natives. Poulaho,
and the other Chiefs, confined on that Account. Poulaho's Present and Haiva,

VIII. Some of the Officers plundered by the Natives. A fishing Party. A Visit to Poulaho. A
Fiatooka described. Observations on the Country Entertainments at Poulaho's House. His Mourning
Ceremony. Of the Kava Plant, and the Manner of preparing the Liquor. Account of Onevy, a little
Island. One of the Natives wounded by a Sentinel. Messrs King and Anderson visit the King's
Brother. Their Entertainment. Another Mourning Ceremony. Manner of passing the Night. Remarks
on the Country they passed through. Preparations made for Sailing. An Eclipse of the Sun, imperfectly
observed. Mr Anderson's Account of the Island, and its Productions,

SECT. IX. A grand Solemnity, called Natche, in Honour of the King's Son, performed. The Procession
and other Ceremonies, during the first Day, described. The Manner of passing the Night at the
King's House. Continuation of the Solemnity the next Day; Conjectures about the Nature of it.
Departure from Tongataboo, and the Arrival at Eooa. Account of that Island, and Transactions there,

X. Advantages derived from visiting the Friendly Islands. Best Articles for Traffic. Refreshments
that may be procured. The Number of the Islands, and their Names. Keppel's and Boscawen's Islands
belong to them. Account of Vavaoo, of Hamao, of Feejee. Voyages of the Natives in their Canoes.
Difficulty of procuring exact Information. Persons of the Inhabitants of both Sexes. Their
Colour. Diseases. Their general Character. Manner of wearing their Hair. Of puncturing their
Bodies. Their Clothing and Ornaments. Personal Cleanliness,

XI. Employments of the Women at the Friendly Islands. Of the Men. Agriculture. Construction
of their Houses. Their working Tools. Cordage and fishing Implements. Musical Instruments.
Weapons. Food and Cookery. Amusements. Marriage. Mourning Ceremonies for the Dead. Their Divinities.
Notions about the Soul, and a future State. Their Places of Worship. Government. Manner of
paying Obeisance to the King. Account of the Royal Family. Remarks on their Language, and Specimen
of it.

FROM LEAVING NEW ZEALAND TO OUR RETURN TO ENGLAND. False Cape Horn lies nine miles to the north-east
and is the west point of Nassau Bay, where James Hermite cast anchor. The whales went chiefly
in couples, from whence we supposed this to be the season when the sexes meet. Whenever they
spouted up the water, or, as the sailors term it, were seen blowing to windward, the whole
ship was infested with a most detestable, rank, and poisonous stench, which went off in the
space of two or three minutes. Sometimes these huge animals lay on their backs, and with their
long pectoral fins beat the surface of the sea, which always caused a great noise, equal to
the explosion of a swivel. This kind of play has doubtless given rise to the mariner's story
of a fight between the thrasher and the whale, of which the former is said to leap out of the
water in order to fall heavily on the latter. Here we had an opportunity of observing the same
exercise many times repeated, and discovered that all the belly and under side of the fins
and tail are of a white colour, whereas the rest are black. As we happened to be only sixty
yards from one of these animals, we perceived a number of longitudinal furrows, or wrinkles,
on its belly, from whence we concluded it was the species by Linnaeus named balaena boops.
Besides flapping their fins in the water, these unwieldy animals, of forty feet in length,
and not less than ten feet in diameter, sometimes fairly leaped into the air, and dropped down
again with a heavy fall, which made the water foam all round them.

[Footnote 3: The resemblance had been noticed by earlier voyagers, and procured for these animals
the same name. This is mentioned by Mr G.F., who refers to Francis Petty in Hackluyt's collection,
Sir Richard Hawkins, Sir John Nasborough and Labbe, in Des Brosses' Nav. aux Terres Australes.
The description which the same gentleman has given of these remarkable creatures is too interesting
(though Cook's account afterwards given might suffice) to be omitted. "The old males were,
in general, very fat, and measured from ten to twelve feet in length; the females were more
slender, and from six to eight feet long. The weight of the largest male amounts to 1200 or
1500 lb., for one of a middle size weighed 550 lb. after the skin, entrails, and blubber were
taken off. The head of the male has really some resemblance to a lion's head, and the colour
is likewise very nearly the same, being only a darker hue of tawny. The long shaggy hair on
the neck and throat of the male, beginning at the back of the head, bears a strong resemblance
to a mane; and is hard and coarse to the touch; all the rest of the body is covered with short
hairs, which lie very close to the skin, and form a smooth glossy coat. The lioness is perfectly
smooth all over the body; but both sexes are formed alike with regard to the feet, or rather
fins. Those fins, which originate near the breast, are large flat pieces of a black coriaceous
membrane, which have only some small indistinct vestiges of nails on their middle. The hinder
fins are rather more like feet, being black membranes divided into five long toes, with a thin
thong, or membrane, projecting far beyond the nails, which are very small. With these nails,
however, we have seen them scratch all parts of their body. The tail is excessively short,
and hid between the hind feet or fins, which grow close together. The whole hind quarters are
very round, being covered with an amazing quantity of fat. The noise which all the animals
of this kind made together was various, and sometimes stunned our ears. The old males snort
and roar like mad bulls or lions; the females bleat exactly like calves, and the young cubs
like lambs. Of the young we saw great numbers on the beaches; and one of the females being
knocked down with a club, littered in the same instant. The sea-lions live together in numerous
herds. The oldest and fattest males lie apart, each having chosen a large stone, which none
of the rest dares approach without engaging in a furious battle. We have often seen them seize
each other with a degree of rage which is not to be described; and many of them had deep gashes
on their backs, which they had received in the wars. The younger active sea-lions, with all
the females and the cubs, lie together. They commonly waited the approach of our people, but
as soon as some of the herd were killed, the rest took flight with great precipitation, some
females carrying off a cub in their mouths, whilst many were so terrified as to leave them
behind. When left to themselves, they were often seen caressing each other in the most tender
manner, and their snouts often met together, as if they were kissing. They come ashore on these
uninhabited spots to breed; they do not, however, breed during their stay on shore, which sometimes
lasts several weeks, but grow lean, and swallow a considerable quantity of stones to keep their
stomach distended. The intervals between these tufts were very muddy and dirty, which obliged
us to leap from one tuft to another. We soon discovered that another kind of seals occupied
this part of the island, and caused the mud by coming out of the sea. These were no other than
the sea-bears which we had already seen at Dusky Bay, but which were here infinitely more numerous,
and grown to a much larger size, equalling that assigned to them by Steller. They are, however,
far inferior to the sea-lions, the males being never above eight or nine feet long, and thick
in proportion. Their hair is dark-brown, minutely sprinkled with grey, and much longer on the
whole body than that of the sea-lion, but does not form a mane. The general outline of the
body, and the shape of the fins, are exactly the same. They were more fierce towards us, and
their females commonly died in defence of their young. We observed on another occasion, that
these two species, though sometimes encamped on the same beach, always kept at a great distance
asunder, and had no communication. A strong rank stench is common to them, as well as to all
other seals; a circumstance as well known to the ancients, as their inactivity and drowsiness
whilst they lie on shore--

   Web-footed seals forsake the whitening waves,
   And sleep in herds, exhaling nauseous stench.
   HOMER.

Great numbers of a species of vultures, commonly called carrion crows by the sailors (vultur
aura), were seen upon this island, and probably feed on young seal-cubs, which either die in
the birth, or which they take an opportunity to seize upon. Besides them we also found a new
species of hawks, and several geese of the sort which had so well furnished out our Christmas
entertainment. They are excellent places of refreshment for a ship's crew bound on expeditions
like ours; for though the flesh of sea-lions and penguins is not the most palateable food,
yet it is infinitely more salubrious than salt meat; and by searching the different islands,
it is not improbable that a sufficient quantity of celery and scurvy-grass might be found to
supply the whole crew, especially as we saw both the species on our excursions. Our seamen
lived several days on young shags and penguins, of which they found the former extremely palateable,
comparing them to young pullets. They likewise roasted several little cubs of seals, but there
was a degree of softness in the meat which made it disgustful. An instance of this is recorded
in our account of Byron's voyage, vol. It is utterly improbable that any human being could
be benefited by the most perfect information that might be afforded, respecting these desolate
regions. Mr G.F. it is true, hazards a speculation, that if the northern ocean should ever
be cleared of whales, by our annual fisheries, this part of the southern hemisphere might be
visited for the sake of procuring these animals so abundant in it. As, however, a few remarks
were hazarded respecting those of a mathematical kind, it may be proper to say a word or two
as to others of a physical nature. Two reasons for this supposition have been urged; viz. the
presence of rivers necessary to account for the large masses of fresh-water ice found in high
southern latitudes; and the existence of firm and immoveable points of land round which these
masses might form. The first of these is glaringly erroneous in point of principle and fact.
In the first place, it is most certain, that the waters of the ocean admit of being frozen,
and that when so, they either do or do not contain the salts they held in solution, according
to certain circumstances, which the argument does not require to be explained. And, secondly,
it is absurd to imagine that lands in the vicinity of the Pole should have any rivers, as the
snow-line, as it has been called, reaches so low down there as the surface of the earth, and
as the temperature of the atmosphere, reckoning from what is known of it in high latitudes,
can scarcely ever be above that point at which water becomes solid. The second argument is
equally unsubstantial, and may be as readily invalidated. In fact, the principal thing requisite
for the congelation of water in any circumstances of situation, is the reduction of the temperature
to a certain point, to the effect of which, it is well known, the agitation of the water often
materially contributes. It may be remarked also, that as the beat of the ocean seems to diminish
in pretty regular progression from the surface downwards, so it is highly probable, that, even
at considerable distances from the Pole, the lower strata may be in a state of congelation;
much more probably, therefore, there may exist at and near the Pole, a mass of ice of indefinite
size and durability, which, extending to greater or smaller distances according to different
circumstances, may serve as the basis, or point d'appui, of all the islands and fields of ice
discoverable in this region. Ice, in fact, is just as capable of a fixed position as earth
is, or any other solid body, and may accordingly have constituted the substratum of the southern
hemisphere within the polar circle, since the time that this planet assumed its present form
and condition. So much then on the subject of a southern continent, which, after all, we see
is not worth being disputed about, and appears to be set up, as it were, in absolute derision
of human curiosity and enterprise. Wise men, it is likely, notwithstanding such promissory
eulogiums as Mr Dalrymple held out, will neither venture their lives to ascertain its existence,
nor lose their time and tempers in arguing about it. Cook's observation, it is perhaps necessary
to remark, as to the ice extending further towards the north opposite the Atlantic and Indian
oceans than any where else, may be accounted for without the supposition he makes in explanation
of it. Thus certain warm currents of water may be conceived to proceed from the north, towards
those other parts where the ice has not been seen to extend so far, and to prevent the formation
of it to the same distance; or again, there may be islands and rocks, to which the ice adheres,
in the situations mentioned by Cook. Both causes, indeed, may operate, and there may be others
also quite equivalent to the effect. But it is full time to leave this merely curious subject.
Mr G.F. has somewhat wittily remarked, that the opinion of the existence of a southern continent
maintained by some philosophers, though much invalidated by this voyage, is nevertheless a
proof of their great intelligence, considering the few data on which they could proceed. It
enabled us to eat our portion of salt meat, of which it corrected the septic quality. When
off, and in the neighbourhood of Georgia, the cold was much less severe when the wind blew
from the south, than when it came from the north. He assigns no reason for it, and perhaps
the observations were too limited to place and time to justify any general inferences. A similar
remark is applicable to some of the subjects mentioned in the following section. The principal
difference consists in the mode of pronunciation, which in Easter Island, Amsterdam, and New
Zealand, is more harsh, or guttural, than at the Marquesas Isles, or Otaheite. The other three
differ totally, not only from the preceding, but from each other; which is more extraordinary
than the agreement of the others, as from Malicolo to Tanna you never lose sight of land; nor
is New Caledonia at a great distance from the last place. In the language of Malicolo a great
number of harsh labial sounds prevail, very difficult to be represented in writing. At Tanna
the pronunciation is likewise harsh, but rather guttural, and the inhabitants of New Caledonia
have many nasal sounds, or snivel much in speaking. It may however be observed, that in the
three last languages, some words are found which seem to have a distant resemblance to those
that go before; as Brr'ooas, in Malicolo, and 'Booga, or 'Boogas, in Tanna, both signifying
a hog, which at Otaheite and the Marquesas, is expressed by the word 'Böa, and at Amsterdam
Boo'acka. Yet, whether these may not have been accidentally introduced, is hard to determine;
because they frequently use two words to express the same thing; as for instance, in New Caledonia,
they call a star both Peejoo and Fya'too; the first seems most consonant to the general composition
of their language, whereas the second differs very little from E'faitoo, or Whetoo, the name
of a star at Otaheite. When they mention puncturation, it is commonly called a Gan, or Gan,galan;
but sometimes they say Tata'tou, which is almost the same as Ta'tou, used to express the same
thing at Otaheite and Amsterdam.]

[Footnote 22: The letters in Italic, as oo, ee, &c. are to be sounded as one. Those with this
¨, as öe, &c. are separately. The accent at the beginning of a word, signifies the chief stress
in pronunciation is to be laid there; if over it at any other part, the stress is laid on that
part immediately following. A comma in the middle of a word, either signifies, that it is compounded
of two, or, that the same syllables repeated, make the word; in both which cases, a small stop,
or pause, must be made in pronouncing it.]

PART III. BOOK III.

The spirit of discovery, which had long animated the European nations, having, after its arduous
and successful exertions, during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, gradually subsided,
and for a considerable time lain dormant, began to revive in Great Britain in the late reign;[24]
and recovered all its former activity, under the cherishing influence, and munificent encouragement,
of his present majesty.

[Footnote 23: The account of this voyage was originally published in three volumes the first
and second of which were written by Captain Cook himself, and the third by Captain King, one
of his officers. The work, however, as the reader will soon find, is materially enriched by
the communications of Mr Anderson, surgeon of the Resolution. The valuable introduction, and
the notes interspersed throughout the volumes contributed by Cook, were the production of Dr
Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury, who, at the request of Lord Sandwich, undertook also the office
of editor. Of the amount of his services in this character, we have his own statement, towards
the end of the introduction. From this, it appears, that Cook, when he set out, knew he was
expected to relate, as well as to execute, the operations committed to him; and that his journal,
in consequence, was faithfully adhered to. This seems to imply the non-interference of the
editor, at least in any important sense. The same thing may be inferred from what he says respecting
Mr Anderson's journal. And as to the third volume, we are expressly told, that it was completely
prepared for the press by Captain King himself. There is surely, then, very little foundation
for an assertion made in the memoir of Captain Cook, inserted in the new edition of the General
Biographical Dictionary, vol. 10. viz. that Dr Douglas "has levelled down the more striking
peculiarities of the different writers, into some appearance of equality." Certainly, we are
bound either to refuse such an insinuation, or to charge falsehood on Dr Douglas, who expressly
states, that all he has to answer for, are the notes in Captain Cook's two volumes and the
introduction. But the alternative will give no trouble to any reader acquainted with the worthy
character of the bishop, or who can comprehend, how very readily a probable conjecture may
became the basis of an erroneous opinion.

It is necessary to apprise the reader, that the letter D is placed at such of Dr Douglas's
notes as it is thought advisable to retain in this work, and that for the rest marked E., the
editor, as formerly, is responsible.--E.]

[Footnote 24: Two voyages for discovering a north-west passage, through Hudson's Bay, were
then performed; one under the command of Captain Middleton, in his majesty's ships the Furnace,
and the Discovery pink, in 1741 and 1743. The other under the direction of Captains Smith and
Moore, in the ships Dobbs and California, fitted out by subscription, in 1746 and 1747.--D.]

Soon after his accession to the throne, having happily closed the destructive operations of
war, he turned his thoughts to enterprises more humane, but not less brilliant, adapted to
the season of returning peace. While every liberal art, and useful study, flourished under
his patronage at home, his superintending care was extended to such branches of knowledge,
as required distant examination and enquiry; and his ships, after bringing back victory and
conquest from every quarter of the known world, were now employed in opening friendly communications
with its hitherto unexplored recesses.

In the prosecution of an object so worthy of the monarch of a great commercial people, one
voyage followed another in close succession; and, we may add, in regular gradation. What Byron
had begun, Wallis and Carteret soon improved. Their success gave birth to a far more extensive
plan of discovery, carried into execution in two subsequent voyages, conducted by Cook. And
that nothing might be left unattempted, though much had been already done, the same commander,
whose professional skill could only be equalled by the persevering diligence with which he
had exerted it, in the course of his former researches, was called upon, once more, to resume,
or rather to complete, the survey of the globe. Accordingly, another voyage was undertaken,
in 1776; which, though last in the order of time, was far from being the least considerable,
with respect to the extent and importance of its objects; yet, still, far less fortunate than
any of the former, as those objects were not accomplished, but at the expence of the valuable
life of its conductor.

When plans, calculated to be of general utility, are carried into execution with partial views,
and upon interested motives, it is natural to attempt to confine, within some narrow circle,
the advantages which might have been derived to the world at large, by an unreserved disclosure
of all that had been effected. And, upon this principle, it has too frequently been considered
as sound policy, perhaps, in this country, as well as amongst some of our neighbours, to affect
to draw a veil of secrecy over the result of enterprises to discover and explore unknown quarters
of the globe. It is to the honour of the present reign, that more liberal views have been now
adopted. Our late voyages, from the very extensive objects proposed by them, could not but
convey useful information to every European nation; and, indeed, to every nation, however remote,
which cultivates commerce, and is acquainted with navigation: And that information has most
laudably been afforded. The same enlarged and benevolent spirit, which ordered these several
expeditions to be undertaken, has also taken care that the result of their various discoveries
should be authentically recorded. And the transactions of these voyages round the world, having,
in due time, been communicated, under the authority of his majesty's naval minister; those
of the present, which, besides revisiting many of the former discoveries in the southern, carried
its operations into untrodden paths in the northern hemisphere, are, under the same sanction,
now submitted to the public in these volumes.

One great plan of nautical investigation having been pursued throughout, it is obvious, that
the several voyages have a close connection, and that an exact recollection of what had been
aimed at, and effected, in those that preceded, will throw considerable light on our period.
With a view, therefore, to assist the reader in forming a just estimate of the additional information
conveyed by this publication, it may not be improper to lay before him a short, though comprehensive,
abstract of the principal objects that had been previously accomplished, arranged in such a
manner, as may serve to unite into one point of view, the various articles which lie scattered
through the voluminous journals already in the hands of the public; those compiled by Dr Hawkesworth;
and that which was written by Captain Cook himself. By thus shewing what had been formerly
done, how much still remained for subsequent examination will be more apparent; and it will
be better understood on what grounds, though the ships of his majesty had already circumnavigated
the world five different times, in the course of about ten years, another voyage should still
be thought expedient.

There will be a farther use in giving such an abstract a place in this introduction. The plan
of discovery, carried on in so many successive expeditions, being now, we may take upon us
to say, in a great measure completed, by summing up the final result, we shall be better able
to do justice to the benevolent purposes it was designed to answer; and a solid foundation
will be laid, on which we may build a satisfactory answer to a question, sometimes asked by
peevish refinement, and ignorant malevolence, What beneficial consequences, if any, have followed,
or are likely to follow, to the discoverers, or to the discovered, to the common interests
of humanity, or to the increase of useful knowledge, from all our boasted attempts to explore
the distant recesses of the globe?

The general object of the several voyages round the world, undertaken by the command of his
majesty, prior to that related in this work, was to search for unknown tracts of land that
might exist within the bosom of the immense expanse of ocean that occupies the whole southern
hemisphere.

Within that space, so few researches had been made, before our time, and those few researches
had been made so imperfectly, that the result of them, as communicated to the world in any
narration, had rather served to create uncertainty, than to convey information; to deceive
the credulous, rather than to satisfy the judicious enquirer; by blending the true geography
of above half the superficies of the earth with an endless variety of plausible conjectures,
suggested by ingenious speculation; of idle tales, handed down by obscure tradition; or of
bold fictions, invented by deliberate falsehood.

It would have been very unfortunate, indeed, if five different circumnavigations of the globe,
some of them, at least, if not all, in tracks little known, and less frequented, had produced
no discoveries, to reward the difficulties and perils unavoidably encountered. But the following
review will furnish the most satisfactory proofs, that his majesty's instructions have been
executed with ability; and that the repeated visits of his ships to the southern hemisphere,
have very considerably added to our stock of geographical knowledge.

1. The south Atlantic ocean was the first scene of our operations. Falkland's Islands had been
hitherto barely known to exist; but their true position and extent, and every circumstance
which could render their existence of any consequence, remained absolutely undecided, till
Byron visited them in 1764. And Captain Macbride, who followed him thither two years after,
having circumnavigated their coasts, and taken a complete survey, a chart of Falkland's Islands
has been constructed, with so much accuracy, that the coasts of Great Britain itself, are not
more authentically laid down upon our maps.

How little was really known of the islands in the south Atlantic, even so late as the time
of Lord Anson, we have the most remarkable proofs, in the history of his voyage. Unavoidably
led into mistake, by the imperfect materials then in the possession of the world, he had considered
Pepys's Island, and Falkland Isles, as distinct places; distant from each other about five
degrees of latitude. Byron's researches have rectified this capital error; and it is now decided,
beyond all contradiction, that, as Captain Cook says, "Future navigators will mispend their
time, if they look for Pepys's Island in latitude 47°; it being now certain, that Pepys's Island
is no other than these islands of Falkland."

Besides the determination of this considerable point, other lands, situated in the South Atlantic,
have been brought forward into view. If the isle of Georgia had been formerly seen by La Roche
in 1675, and by Mr Guyot, in the ship Lion, in 1756, which seems to be probable, Captain Cook,
in 1775, has made us fully acquainted with its extent and true position; and, in the same year,
he added to the map of the world Sandwich Land, hitherto not known to exist, and the most southern
discovery that has been ever accomplished.

II. Though the Strait of Magalhaens had been formerly visited, and sailed through by ships
of different nations, before our time, a careful examination of its bays, and harbours, and
head-lands; of the numerous islands it contains, and of the coasts, on both sides, that inclose
it; and an exact account of the tides, and currents, and soundings, throughout its whole extent,
was a task, which, if Sir John Narborough, and others, had not totally omitted, they cannot
be said to have recorded so fully, as to preclude the utility of future investigation. This
task has been ably and effectually performed by Byron, Wallis, and Carteret; whose transactions
in this strait, and the chart of it, founded on their observations and discoveries, are a most
valuable accession to geography.

III. If the correct information, thus obtained, about every part of this celebrated strait,
should deter future adventurers from involving themselves in the difficulties and embarrassments
of a labyrinth, now known to be so intricate, and the unavoidable source of danger and delay,
we have the satisfaction to have discovered, that a safer and more expeditious entrance into
the Pacific Ocean, may be reasonably depended upon. The passage round Cape Horn has been repeatedly
tried, both from the east and from the west, and stript of its terrors. We shall, for the future,
be less discouraged by the labours and distresses experienced by the squadrons of Lord Anson
and Pizarro, when we recollect that they were obliged to attempt the navigation of those seas
at an unfavourable season of the year; and that there was nothing very formidable met with
there when they were traversed by Captain Cook.

To this distinguished navigator was reserved the honour of being the first, who, from a series
of the most satisfactory observations, beginning at the west entrance of the Strait of Magalhaens,
and carried on with unwearied diligence, round Tierra del Fuego, through the Strait of Le Maire,
has constructed a chart of the southern extremity of America, from which it will appear, how
much former navigators must have been at a loss to guide themselves; and what advantages will
be now enjoyed by those who shall hereafter sail round Cape Horn.

IV. As the voyages of discovery, undertaken by his majesty's command, have facilitated the
access of ships into the Pacific Ocean, they have also greatly enlarged our knowledge of its
contents.

Though the immense expanse usually distinguished by this appellation, had been navigated by
Europeans for near two centuries and a half, by far the greater part of it, particularly to
the south of the equator, had remained, during all this time, unexplored.

The great aim of Magalhaens, and of the Spaniards in general, its first navigators, being merely
to arrive, by this passage, at the Moluccas, and the other Asiatic spice islands, every intermediate
part of the ocean that did not lie contiguous to their western track, which was on the north
side of the equator, of course escaped due examination. And if Mendana and Quiros, and some
nameless conductors of voyages before them, by deviating from this track, and steering westward
from Callao, within the southern tropic, were so fortunate as to meet with various islands
there, and so sanguine as to consider those islands as marks of the existence of a neighbouring
southern continent, in the exploring of which they flattered themselves they should rival the
fame of De Gama and Columbus, these feeble efforts never led to any effectual disclosure of
the supposed hidden mine of a New World. On the contrary, their voyages being conducted without
a judicious plan, and their discoveries being left imperfect without immediate settlement,
or subsequent examination, and scarcely recorded in any well-authenticated or accurate narrations,
had been almost forgot; or were so obscurely remembered, as only to serve the purpose of producing
perplexing debates about their situation and extent, if not to suggest doubts about their very
existence.

It seems, indeed, to have become a very early object of policy in the Spanish councils, to
discontinue and to discourage any farther researches in that quarter. Already masters of a
larger empire on the continent of America than they could conveniently govern, and of richer
mines of the precious metals on that continent than they could convert into use, neither avarice
nor ambition furnished reasons for aiming at a fresh accession of dominions. And thus, though
settled all along the shores of this ocean, in a situation so commodious for prosecuting discoveries
throughout its wide extent, the Spaniards remained satisfied with a coasting intercourse between
their own ports; never stretching across the vast gulph that separates that part of America
from Asia, but in an unvarying line of navigation, perhaps in a single annual ship, between
Acapulco and Manilla.

The tracks of other European navigators of the South Pacific Ocean, were, in a great measure,
regulated by those of the Spaniards, and consequently limited within the same narrow bounds.
With the exception, perhaps, of two instances only, those of Le Maire and Roggewein, no ships
of another nation had entered this sea, through the Strait of Magalhaens, or found Cape Horn,
but for the purposes of trade with the Spaniards, or of hostility against them, purposes which
could not be answered, without precluding any probable chance of adding much to our stock of
discovery. For it was obviously incumbent on all such adventurers, to confine their cruises
within a moderate distance of the Spanish settlements, in the vicinity of which alone they
could hope to exercise their commerce, or to execute their predatory and military operations.
Accordingly, soon after emerging from the strait, or completing the circuit of Tierra del Fuego,
they began to hold a northerly course, to the uninhabited island of Juan Fernandez, their usual
spot of rendezvous and refreshment. And after ranging along the continent of America, from
Chili to California, they either reversed their course back to the Atlantic, or, if they ventured
to extend their voyage by stretching over to Asia, they never thought of trying experiments
in the unfrequented and unexplored parts of the ocean, but chose the beaten path (if the expression
may be used,) within the limits of which it was likely that they might meet with a Philippine
galleon, to make their voyage profitable to themselves; but could have little prospect, if
they had been desirous, of making it useful to the public, by gaining any accession of new
land to the map of the world.

By the natural operation of these causes, it could not but happen, that little progress should
be made toward obtaining a full and accurate knowledge of the South Pacific Ocean. Something,
however, had been attempted by the industrious, and once enterprising, Dutch, to whom we are
indebted for three voyages, undertaken for the purposes of discovery; and whose researches,
in the southern latitudes of this ocean, are much better ascertained than are those of the
earlier Spanish navigators above mentioned.

Le Maire and Schouten, in 1616, and Roggewein, in 1722, wisely judging that nothing new could
be gained by adhering to the usual passage on the north side of the Line, traversed this ocean
from Cape Horn to the East Indies, crossing the south tropic, a space which had been so seldom,
and so ineffectually, visited; though popular belief, fortified by philosophical speculation,
expected there to reap the richest harvest of discovery.

Tasman, in 1642, in his extensive circuit from Batavia, through the South Indian Ocean, entered
the South Pacific, at its greatest distance from the American side, where it never had been
examined before. And his range, continued from a high southern latitude, northward to New Guinea,
and the islands to the east of it near the equator, produced intermediate discoveries, that
have rendered his voyage memorable in the annals of navigation.

But still, upon the whole, what was effected in these three expeditions, served only to shew
how large a field was reserved for future and more persevering examination. Their results had,
indeed, enabled geographers to diversify the vacant uniformity of former charts of this ocean
by the insertion of some new islands. But the number, and the extent of these insertions, were
so inconsiderable, that they may be said to appear

   Rari, nantes in gurgite vasto.

And, if the discoveries were few, those few were made very imperfectly. Some coasts were approached,
but not landed upon; and passed without waiting to examine their extent and connection with
those that might exist at no great distance. If others were landed upon, the visits were, in
general, so transient, that it was scarcely possible to build upon a foundation so weakly laid,
any information that could even gratify idle curiosity, much less satisfy philosophical enquiry,
or contribute greatly to the safety, or to the success, of future navigation.

Let us, however, do justice to these beginnings of discovery. To the Dutch, we must, at least,
ascribe the merit of being our harbingers, though we afterward went beyond them in the road
they had first ventured to tread. And with what success his majesty's ships have, in their
repeated voyages, penetrated into the obscurest recesses of the South Pacific Ocean, will appear
from the following enumeration of their various and very extensive operations, which have drawn
up the veil that had hitherto been thrown over the geography of so great a proportion of the globe.

1. The several lands, of which any account had been given, as seen by any of the preceding
navigators, Spanish or Dutch, have been carefully looked for, and most of them (at least such
of them as seemed of any consequence) found out and visited; and not visited in a cursory manner,
but every means used to correct former mistakes, and to supply former deficiencies, by making
accurate enquiries ashore, and taking skilful surveys of their coasts, by sailing round them,
who has not heard, or read, of the boasted Tierra Australia del Espiritu Santo of Quiros? But
its bold pretensions to be a part of a southern continent, could not stand Captain Cook's examination,
who sailed round it, and assigned it its true position and moderate bounds, in the Archipelago
of the New Hebrides.[25]

[Footnote 25: Bougainville, in 1768, did no more than discover that the land here was not connected,
but composed of islands. Captain Cook, in 1774, explored the whole group.--D.]

2. Besides perfecting many of the discoveries of their predecessors, our late navigators have
enriched geographical knowledge with a long catalogue of their own. The Pacific Ocean, within
the south tropic, repeatedly traversed, in every direction, was found to swarm with a seemingly
endless profusion of habitable spots of land. Islands scattered through the amazing space of
near fourscore degrees of longitude, separated at various distances, or grouped in numerous
clusters, have, at their approach, as it were, started into existence; and such ample accounts
have been brought home concerning them and their inhabitants, as may serve every useful purpose
of enquiry; and, to use Captain Cook's words, who bore so considerable a share in those discoveries,
have left little more to be done in that part.

3. Byron, Wallis, and Carteret had each of them contributed toward increasing our knowledge
of the islands that exist in the Pacific Ocean, within the limits of the southern tropic; but
how far that ocean reached to the west, what lands bounded it on that side, and the connection
of those lands with the discoveries of former navigators, was still the reproach of geographers,
and remained absolutely unknown, till Captain Cook, during his first voyage in 1770, brought
back the most satisfactory decision of this important question. With a wonderful perseverance,
and consummate skill, amidst an uncommon combination of perplexities and dangers, he traced
this coast near two thousand miles, from the 38° of south latitude, cross the tropic, to its
northern extremity, within 10° 1/2 of the equinoctial, where it was found to join the lands
already explored by the Dutch, in several voyages from their Asiatic settlements, and to which
they have given the name of New Holland. Those discoveries made in the last century, before
Tasman's voyage, had traced the north and the west coasts of this land; and Captain Cook, by
his extensive operations on its east side, left little to be done toward completing the full
circuit of it. Between Cape Hicks, in latitude 38°, where his examination of this coast began,
and that part of Van Diemen's Land, from whence Tasman took his departure, was not above fifty-five
leagues. It was highly probable, therefore, that they were connected; though Captain Cook cautiously
says, that he could not determine whether his New South Wales, that is, the east coast of New
Holland, joins to Van Diemen's Land, or no. But what was thus left undetermined by the operations
of his first voyage, was, in the course of his second, soon cleared up; Captain Furneaux, in
the Adventure, during his separation from the Resolution (a fortunate separation as it thus
turned out) in 1773, having explored Van Diemen's Land, from its southern point, along the
east coast, far beyond Tasman's station, and on to the latitude 38°, where Captain Cook's examination
of it in 1770 had commenced.

It is no longer, therefore, a doubt, that we have now a full knowledge of the whole circumference
of this vast body of land, this fifth part of the world (if I may so speak), which our late
voyages have discovered to be of so amazing a magnitude, that, to use Captain Cook's words,
it is of a larger extent than any other country in the known world, that does not bear the
name of a continent.[26]

[Footnote 26: What the learned editor asserts here, as to the full knowledge acquired by the
voyages to which he alludes, must be restricted, as Captain Flinders very properly remarks,
to the general extent of the vast region explored. It will not apply to the particular formation
of its coasts, for this plain reason, that the chart accompanying the work, of which he was
writing the introduction, represents much of the south coast as totally unknown. It is necessary
to mention also, that what he says immediately before, in allusion to the discoveries made
by Captain Furaeaux, must submit to correction. That officer committed some errors, owing,
it would appear, to the imperfection of preceding accounts; and he left undetermined the interesting
question as to the existence of a connection betwixt Van Diemen's Land and New South Wales.
The opinion which he gave as to this point, on very insufficient data certainly, viz. that
there is "no strait between them, but a very deep bay," has been most satisfactorily disproved,
by the discovery of the extensive passage which bears the name of Flinders's friend, Mr Bass,
the enterprising gentleman that accomplished it.--E.]

4. Tasman having entered the Pacific Ocean, after leaving Van Diemen's Land, had fallen in
with a coast to which he gave the name of New Zealand. The extent of this coast, and its position
in any direction but a part of its west side, which he sailed along in his course northward,
being left absolutely unknown, it had been a favourite opinion amongst geographers, since his
time, that New Zealand was a part of a southern continent, running north and south, from the
33° to the 64° of south latitude, and its northern, coast stretching cross the South Pacific
to an immense distance, where its eastern boundary had been seen by Juan Fernandez, half a
century before. Captain Cook's voyage in the Endeavour has totally destroyed this supposition.
Though Tasman must still have the credit of having first seen New Zealand, to Captain Cook
solely belongs that of having really explored it. He spent near six months upon its coasts
in 1769 and 1770, circumnavigated it completely, and ascertained its extent and division into
two islands. Repeated visits since that have perfected this important discovery, which, though
now known to be no part of a southern continent, will probably, in all future charts of the
world, be distinguished as the largest islands that exist in that part of the southern hemisphere.

5. Whether New Holland did or did not join to New Guinea, was a question involved in much doubt
and uncertainty, before Captain Cook's sailing between them, through Endeavour Strait, decided
it. We will not hesitate to call this an important acquisition to geography. For though the
great sagacity and extensive reading of Mr Dalrymple had discovered some traces of such a passage
having been found before, yet these traces were so obscure, and so little known in the present
age, that they had not generally regulated the construction of our charts; the President de
Brosses, who wrote in 1756, and was well versed in geographical researches, had not been able
to satisfy himself about them; and Mons. de Bougainville, in 1768, who had ventured to fall
in with the south coast of New Guinea, near ninety leagues to the westward of its south-east
point, chose rather to work those ninety leagues directly to windward, at a time when his people
were in such distress for provisions as to eat the seal-skins from off the yards and rigging,
than to run the risk of finding a passage, of the existence of which he entertained the strongest
doubts, by persevering in his westerly course. Captain Cook, therefore, in this part of his
voyage (though he modestly disclaims all merit), has established, beyond future controversy,
a fact of essential service to navigation, by opening, if not a new, at least an unfrequented
and forgotten communication between the South Pacific and Indian Oceans.[27]

[Footnote 27: We are indebted to Mr Dalrymple for the recovery of an interesting document respecting
a passage betwixt New Holland and New Guinea, discovered by Torres, a Spanish navigator, in
1606. It was found among the archives of Manilla, when that city was taken by the British,
in 1762, being a copy of a letter which Torres addressed to the king of Spain, giving an account
of his discoveries. The Spaniards, as usual, had kept the matter a profound secret, so that
the existence of the strait was generally unknown, till the labours of Captain Cook, in 1770,
entitled him to the merit here assigned. Captain Flinders, it must be remembered, is of opinion,
that some suspicion of such a strait was entertained in 1644, when Tasman sailed on his second
voyage, but that the Dutch, who were then engaged in making discoveries in these regions, were
ignorant of its having been passed. Several navigators have sailed through Torres's Strait,
as it has been justly enough named, since the time of Cook, and have improved our acquaintance
with its geography. Of these may be mentioned Lieutenant (afterwards Rear-Admiral) Bligh, in
1789; Captain (afterwards Admiral) Edwards, in 1791; Bligh, a second time, accompanied by Lieutenant
Portlock, in 1792; Messrs Bampton and Alt, in 1793; and Captain Flinders, in 1802-3. The labours
of the last-mentioned gentleman in this quarter surpass, in utility and interest, those of
his predecessors, and, if he had accomplished nothing else, would entitle his name to be ranked
amongst the benefactors of geography. What mind is so insensible as not to regret, that after
years of hardship and captivity, the very day which presented the public with the memorial
of his services and sufferings, deprived him of the possibility of reaping their reward?--E.]

6. One more discovery, for which we are indebted to Captain Carteret, as similar in some degree
to that last mentioned, may properly succeed it, in this enumeration. Dampier, in sailing round
what was supposed to be part of the coast of New Guinea, discovered it to belong to a separate
island, to which he gave the name of New Britain. But that the land which he named New Britain
should be subdivided again into two separate large islands, with many smaller intervening,
is a point of geographical information, which, if ever traced by any of the earliest navigators
of the South Pacific, had not been handed down to the present age: And its having been ascertained
by Captain Carteret, deserves to be mentioned as a discovery, in the strictest sense of the
word; a discovery of the utmost importance to navigation. St George's Channel, through which
his ship found a way, between New Britain and New Ireland, from the Pacific into the Indian
Ocean, to use the Captain's own words, "is a much better and shorter passage, whether from
the eastward or westward, than round all the islands and lands to the northward."[28]

[Footnote 28: The position of the Solomon Islands, Mendana's celebrated discovery, will no
longer remain a matter in debate amongst geographers, Mr Dalrymple having, on the most satisfactory
evidence, proved, that they are the cluster of islands which comprises what has since been
called New Britain, New Ireland, &c. The great light thrown on that cluster by Captain Carteret's
discovery, is a strong confirmation of this.--See Mr Dalrymple's Collection of Voyages, vol.
i. p. 162-3.--D.]

V. The voyages of Byron, Wallis, and Carteret, were principally confined to a favourite object
of discovery in the South Atlantic; and though accessions to geography were procured by them
in the South Pacific, they could do but little toward giving the world a complete view of the
contents of that immense expanse of ocean, through which they only held a direct track, on
their way homeward by the East Indies. Cook, indeed, who was appointed to the conduct of the
succeeding voyage, had a more accurate examination of the South Pacific entrusted to him. But
as the improvement of astronomy went hand in hand, in his instructions, with that of geography,
the Captain's solicitude to arrive at Otaheite time enough to observe the transit of Venus,
put it out of his power to deviate from his direct track, in search of unknown lands that might
lie to the south-east of that island. By this unavoidable attention to his duty, a very considerable
part of the South Pacific, and that part where the richest mine of discovery was supposed to
exist, remained unvisited and unexplored, during that voyage in the Endeavour. To remedy this,
and to clear up a point, which, though many of the learned were confident of, upon principles
of speculative reasoning, and many of the unlearned admitted, upon what they thought to be
credible testimony, was still held to be very problematical; if not absolutely groundless,
by others who were less sanguine or more incredulous; his majesty, always ready to forward
every enquiry that can add to the stock of interesting knowledge in every branch, ordered another
expedition to be undertaken. The signal services performed by Captain Cook, during his first
voyage, of which we have given the outlines, marked him as the fittest person to finish an
examination which he had already so skilfully executed in part. Accordingly, he was sent out
in 1772, with two ships, the Resolution and Adventure, upon the most enlarged plan of discovery
known in the annals of navigation. For he was instructed not only to circumnavigate the globe,
but to circumnavigate it in high southern latitudes, making such traverses, from time to time,
into every corner of the Pacific Ocean not before examined, as might finally and effectually
resolve the much-agitated question about the existence of a southern continent, in any part
of the southern hemisphere accessible by navigation.

The ample accessions to geography, by the discovery of many islands within the tropic in the
Pacific Ocean, in the course of this voyage, which was carried on with singular perseverance,
between three and four years, have been already stated to the reader. But the general search
now made, throughout the whole southern hemisphere, as being the principal object in view,
hath been reserved for this separate article. Here, indeed, we are not to take notice of lands
that have been discovered, but of seas sailed through, where lands had been supposed to exist.
In tracing the route of the Resolution and Adventure, throughout the South Atlantic, the South
Indian, and the South Pacific Oceans that environ the globe, and combining it with the route
of the Endeavour, we receive what may be called ocular demonstration, that Captain Cook, in
his persevering researches, sailed over many an extensive continent, which, though supposed
to have been seen by former navigators, at the approach of his ships, sunk into the bosom of
the ocean, and, "like the baseless fabric of a vision, left not a rack behind."[29] It has
been urged, that the existence of a southern continent is necessary to preserve an equilibrium
between the two hemispheres. But however plausible this theory may seem at first sight, experience
has abundantly detected its fallacy. In consequence of Captain Cook's voyage, now under consideration,
we have a thorough knowledge of the state of the southern hemisphere, and can pronounce with
certainty, that the equilibrium of the globe is effectually preserved, though the proportion
of sea actually sailed through, leaves no sufficient space for the corresponding mass of land;
which, on speculative arguments, had been maintained to be necessary.[30]

[Footnote 29: A very long note in the original is occupied by Mr Wales's reply to the observations
of Monsieur le Monier, in the memoirs of the French Academy of Sciences for 1776, respecting
what Captain Cook alleged in the account of his second voyage, of the non-existence of Cape
Circumcision, said to have been discovered by Bouvet in 1738. As the subject, though exceedingly
well treated by Mr Wales, is in itself of scarce any importance, and has long lost interest
among scientific enquirers, who rest perfectly content with Captain Cook's examination, there
appeared no inducement whatever to retain the note. The reader, it is confidently presumed,
will be satisfied with what was said of it in the account of the former voyage.--E.]

[Footnote 30: The judgment of the ingenious author of Recherches sur Américains, on this question,
seems to be very deserving of a place here: "Qu'on calcule, comme on voudra, on sera toujours
contraint d'avouer, qu'il y a une plus grande portion de continent située dans la latitude
septentrionale, que dans la latitude australe.

"C'est fort mal à-propos, qu'on a soutenu que cette répartition inégale ne sauroit exister,
sous prétexte que le globe perdroit son équilibre, faute d'un contrepoids suffisant au pole
méridionale. Il est vrai qu'un pied cube d'eau salée ne pese pas autant qu'un pied cube de
terre; mais on auroit dû réfléchir, qu'il peut y avoir sous l'ocean des lits & des couches
de matières, dont la pésanteur spécifique varie à l'infini, & que le peu de profondeur d'une
mer, versée sur une grande surface, contrebalance les endroits où il y a moins de mer, mais
où elle est plus profonde."--Recherches Philosophiques, tom. ii, p. 375.--D.

We offered some observations on this topic in the preceding volume, and need scarcely resume
it, as it cannot be imagined that any of our readers still entertain the belief of the necessity
for such an equilibrium. The object in again alluding to it, is to call attention to some observations
of another kind, which Mr Jones has hazarded in one of his Physiological Disquisitions. According
to him, no such thing as a southern counterpoise ought to have been expected, for it seems
to be the constitution of our globe, that land and water are contrasted to each other on its
opposite sides. "If," says he, "you bring the meridian of the Cape of Good Hope under the brazen
circle, or universal meridian of a terrestrial globe, observing that this meridian passes through
the heart of the continents of Europe and Africa, you will find that the opposite part of the
meridian passes through the middle of the great, south sea. When the middle of the northern
continent of America, about the meridian of Mexico, is examined in the same way, the opposite
part passes very exactly through the middle of the Indian ocean. The southern continent of
America is opposed by that eastern sea which contains the East India islands. The southern
continent of New Holland is opposite to the Atlantic ocean. This alternation, if I may so call
it, between the land and sea, is too regular to have been casual; and if the face of the earth
was so laid out by design, it was for some good reason. But what that reason may be, it will
be difficult to shew. Perhaps this disposition may be of service to keep up a proper balance;
or, it may assist toward the diurnal rotation of the earth, the free motions of the tides,
&c.; or the water on one side may give a freer passage to the rays of the sun, and being convex
and transparent, may concentrate, or at least condense, the solar rays internally, for some
benefit to the land that lies on the other side."--This sort of reasoning, from our ignorance,
is no doubt liable to objection, and Mr Jones had good sense and candour enough to admit, that
the questions were too abstruse for him to determine. The proper part, indeed, for man to act;
is to investigate what Nature has done, not to dogmatize as to the reasons for her conduct--to
ascertain facts, not to substitute conjectures in place of them. But it is allowable for us,
when we have done our best in collecting and examining phenomena, to arrange them together
according to any plausible theory which our judgments can suggest. Still, however, we ought
to remember, that the most obviously imperative dictates of our reasoning faculties are only
inferences from present appearances, and determine nothing as to the necessity of existing
things.--E.]

If former navigators have added more land to the known globe than Captain Cook, to him, at
least, was reserved the honour of being foremost in disclosing to us the extent of sea that
covers its surface. A perusal of the foregoing summary of what had been done, will enable every
one to judge what was still wanting to complete the great plan of discovery. The southern hemisphere
had, indeed, been repeatedly visited, and its utmost accessible extremities been surveyed.
But much uncertainty, and, of course, great variety of opinion, subsisted, as to the navigable
extremities of our own hemisphere; particularly as to the existence, or, at least, as to the
practicability of a northern passage between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, either by sailing
eastward, round Asia, or westward, round North America.

It was obvious, that if such a passage could be effected, voyages to Japan and China, and,
indeed, to the East Indies in general, would be much shortened; and consequently become more
profitable, than by making the tedious circuit of the Cape of Good Hope. Accordingly, it became
a favourite object of the English to effectuate this, above two centuries ago; and (to say
nothing of Cabot's original attempt, in 1497, which ended in the discovery of Newfoundland
and the Labradore coast) from Frobisher's first voyage to find a western passage, in 1576,
to those of James and of Fox, in 1631, repeated trials had been made by our enterprising adventurers.
But though farther knowledge of the northern extent of America was obtained in the course of
these voyages, by the discovery of Hudson's and Baffin's Bays, the wished-for passage, on that
side, into the Pacific Ocean, was still unattained. Our countrymen, and the Dutch, were equally
unsuccessful, in various attempts, to find this passage in an eastern direction. Wood's failure,
in 1676, seems to have closed the long list of unfortunate northern expeditions in that century;
and the discovery, if not absolutely despaired of, by having been so often missed, ceased,
for many years, to be sought for.

Mr Dobbs, a warm advocate for the probability of a north-west passage through Hudson's Bay,
in our own time, once more recalled the attention of this country to that undertaking; and,
by his active zeal, and persevering solicitation, renewed the spirit of discovery. But it was
renewed in vain. For Captain Middleton, sent out by government in 1741, and Captains Smith
and Moore, by a private society, in 1746, though encouraged by an act of parliament passed
in the preceding year, that annexed a reward of twenty thousand pounds to the discovery of
a passage, returned from Hudson's Bay with reports of their proceedings, that left the accomplishment
of this favourite object at as great a distance as ever.

When researches of this kind, no longer left to the solicitation of an individual, or to the
subscriptions of private adventurers, became cherished by the royal attention, in the present
reign, and warmly promoted by the minister at the head of the naval department, it was impossible,
while so much was done toward exploring the remotest corners of the southern hemisphere, that
the northern passage should not be attempted. Accordingly, while Captain Cook was prosecuting
his voyage toward the South Pole in 1773, Lord Mulgrave sailed with two ships, to determine
how far navigation was practicable toward the North Pole. And though his lordship met with
the same insuperable bar to his progress which former navigators had experienced, the hopes
of opening a communication between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans by a northerly course, were
not abandoned; and a voyage for that purpose was ordered to be undertaken.[32]

[Footnote 32: Dr Douglas refers to the introduction to Lord Mulgrave's Journal for a history
of former attempts to sail toward the North Pole; and to Barrington's Miscellanies for several
instances of ships reaching very high north latitudes.--E.]

The operations proposed to be pursued were so new, so extensive, and so various, that the skill
and experience of Captain Cook, it was thought, would be requisite to conduct them. Without
being liable to any charge of want of zeal for the public service, he might have passed the
rest of his days in the command to which he had been appointed in Greenwich Hospital, there
to enjoy the fame he had dearly earned in two circumnavigations of the world. But he cheerfully
relinquished this honourable station at home; and, happy that the Earl of Sandwich had not
cast his eye upon any other commander, engaged in the conduct of the expedition, the history
of which is now given, an expedition that would expose him to the toils and perils of a third
circumnavigation, by a track hitherto unattempted.[33] Every former navigator round the globe
had made his passage home to Europe by the Cape of Good Hope; the arduous task was now assigned
to Captain Cook of attempting it, by reaching the high northern latitudes between Asia and
America. So that the usual plan of discovery was reversed; and, instead of a passage from the
Atlantic to the Pacific, one from the latter into the former was to be tried. For it was wisely
foreseen, that whatever openings or inlets there might be on the east side of America, which
lie in a direction that could give any hopes of a passage, the ultimate success of it would
still depend upon there being an open sea between the west side of that continent and the extremities
of Asia. Captain Cook, therefore, was ordered to proceed into the Pacific Ocean, through the
chain of his new islands in the southern tropic; and, having crossed the equator into its northern
parts, then to hold such a course as might probably fix many interesting points in geography,
and produce intermediate discoveries, in his progress northward to the principal scene of his
operations.

[Footnote 33: It is due to history, and to the character of Cook, to mention a circumstance
respecting his appointment to this expedition, which strikingly proves the high opinion entertained
of his abilities for it, and, at the same time, his zeal for the promotion of useful discoveries,
and the prosperity of his country. This is done from the information of Lord Sandwich, as communicated
in the memoir of Cook inserted in the Biog. Brit. When the enterprise was determined on, it
became of extreme consequence to select a proper person to undertake the execution of it. Captain
Cook most naturally obtained this respect; and at once, without the possibility of rivalship,
would have been appointed to the command, did not a conviction and feeling of sympathy for
his former sufferings and important services, restrain his warmest friends from the slightest
expression of what they unanimously desired. Concealing, therefore, their opinion, and avoiding
every thing of the nature of solicitation, they, nevertheless, thought it advisable to consult
his well-informed judgment relative to the nature of the undertaking, and the person most likely
to perform it. For this purpose, Captain Cook, Sir Hugh Palliser, and Mr Stephens, were invited
to dine with Lord Sandwich, when the whole affair was discussed. The representation of its
magnitude, and beneficial consequences, roused the enthusiasm of the navigator; and starting
up, he declared that he himself would undertake its accomplishment. This magnanimous resolution
was joyfully received, and could not fail to produce the most sanguine hopes of at least an
honourable, if not a successful, issue. His appointment was immediately made out; and it was
agreed, that on returning to England, he should have his situation at Greenwich restored.--E.]

But the plan of the voyage, and the various objects it embraced, will best appear from the
instructions under which Captain Cook sailed; and the insertion of them here, will convey such
authentic information as may enable the reader to judge with precision how far they have been
carried into execution.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the Commissioners for executing the Office of Lord High Admiral of Great Britain and Ireland,
&c.

Secret Instructions for Captain James Cook, Commander of his Majesty's Sloop the Resolution.

Whereas the Earl of Sandwich has signified to us his majesty's pleasure, that an attempt should
be made to find out a northern passage by sea from the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean; and whereas
we have, in pursuance thereof, caused his majesty's sloops Resolution and Discovery to be fitted,
in all respects, proper to proceed upon a voyage for the purpose above-mentioned, and, from
the experience we have had of your abilities and good conduct in your late voyages, have thought
fit to entrust you with the conduct of the present intended voyage, and with that view appointed
you to command the first-mentioned sloop, and directed Captain Clerke, who commands the other,
to follow your orders for his further proceedings. You are hereby required and directed to
proceed with the said two sloops directly to the Cape of Good Hope, unless you shall judge
it necessary to stop at Madeira, the Cape de Verd or Canary Islands, to take in wine for the
use of their companies; in which case you are at liberty to do so, taking care to remain there
no longer than may be necessary for that purpose.

On your arrival at the Cape of Good Hope, you are to refresh the sloops' companies, and to
cause the sloops to be supplied with as much provisions and water as they can conveniently stow.

You are, if possible, to leave the Cape of Good Hope by the end of October, or the beginning
of November next, and proceed to the southward, in search of some islands said to have been
lately seen by the French, in the latitude 48° 0' S., and about the meridian of Mauritius.
In case you find those islands, you are to examine them thoroughly for a good harbour; and,
upon discovering one, make the necessary observations to facilitate the finding it again, as
a good port, in that situation, may hereafter prove very useful, although it should afford
little or nothing more than shelter, wood, and water. You are not, however, to spend too much
time in looking out for those islands, or in the examination of them, if found, but proceed
to Otaheite, or the Society Isles, (touching at New Zealand in your way thither, if you should
judge it necessary and convenient,) and taking care to arrive there time enough to admit of
your giving the sloops' companies the refreshment they may stand in need of, before you prosecute
the farther object of these instructions.

Upon your arrival at Otaheite, or the Society Isles, you are to land Omiah at such of them
as he may choose, and to leave him there.

You are to distribute among the chiefs of those islands such part of the presents with which
you have been supplied, as you shall judge proper, reserving the remainder to distribute among
the natives of the countries you may discover in the northern hemisphere. And having refreshed
the people belonging to the sloops under your command, and taken on board such wood and water
as they may respectively stand in need of, you are to leave those islands in the beginning
of February, or sooner if you shall judge it necessary, and then proceed in as direct a course
as you can to the coast of New Albion, endeavouring to fall in with it in the latitude of 45°
0' N.; and taking care, in your way thither, not to lose any time in search of new lands, or
to stop at any you may fall in with, unless you find it necessary to recruit your wood and water.

You are also, in your way thither, strictly enjoined not to touch upon any part of the Spanish
dominions on the western continent of America, unless driven thither by some unavoidable accident;
in which case you are to stay no longer there than shall be absolutely necessary, and to be
very careful not to give any umbrage or offence to any of the inhabitants or subjects of his
catholic majesty. And if, in your farther progress to the northward, as hereafter directed,
you find any subjects of any European prince or state upon any part of the coast you may think
proper to visit, you are not to disturb them, or give them any just cause of offence, but,
on the contrary, to treat them with civility and friendship.

Upon your arrival on the coast of New Albion, you are to put into the first convenient port
to recruit your wood and water, and procure refreshments, and then to proceed northward along
the coast as far as the latitude of 65°, or farther, if you are not obstructed by lands or
ice, taking care not to lose any time in exploring rivers or inlets, or upon any other account,
until you get into the before-mentioned latitude of 65°, where we could wish you to arrive
in the month of June next. When you get that length, you are carefully to search for, and to
explore, such rivers or inlets as may appear to be of a considerable extent, and pointing towards
Hudson's or Baffin's Bays; and if, from your own observations, or from any information you
may receive from the natives, (who, there is reason to believe, are the same race of people,
and speak the same language, of which you are furnished with a vocabulary, as the Esquimaux,)
there shall appear to be a certainty, or even a probability, of a water passage into the afore-mentioned
bays, or either of them, you are, in such case, to use your utmost endeavours to pass through
with one or both of the sloops, unless you shall be of opinion that the passage may be effected
with more certainty, or with greater probability, by smaller vessels; in which case you are
to set up the frames of one or both the small vessels with which you are provided, and, when
they are put together, and are properly fitted, stored, and victualled, you are to dispatch
one or both of them, under the care of proper officers, with a sufficient number of petty officers,
men, and boats, in order to attempt the said passage, with such instructions for their rejoining
you, if they should fail, or for their farther proceedings, if they should succeed in the attempt,
as you shall judge most proper. But, nevertheless, if you shall find it more eligible to pursue
any other measures than those above pointed out, in order to make a discovery of the beforementioned
passage, (if any such there be,) you are at liberty, and we leave it to your discretion, to
pursue such measures accordingly.

In case you shall be satisfied that there is no passage through to the above-mentioned bays,
sufficient for the purposes of navigation, you are, at the proper season of the year, to repair
to the port of St Peter and St Paul in Kamtschatka, or wherever else you shall judge more proper,
in order to refresh your people and pass the winter; and, in the spring of the ensuing year
1778 to proceed from thence to the northward, as far as, in your prudence, you may think proper,
in further search of a N.E. or N.W. passage from the Pacific Ocean into the Atlantic Ocean,
or the North Sea; and if, from your own observation, or any information you may receive, there
shall appear to be a probability of such a passage, you are to proceed as above directed: and
having discovered such passage, or failed in the attempt, make the best of your way back to
England, by such route as you may think best for the improvement of geography and navigation,
repairing to Spithead with both sloops, where they are to remain till further order.

At whatever places you may touch in the course of your voyage, where accurate observations
of the nature hereafter mentioned have not already been made, you are, as far as your time
will allow, very carefully to observe the true situation of such places, both in latitude and
longitude; the variation of the needle; bearings of head-lands; height, direction, and course
of the tides and currents; depths and soundings of the sea; shoals, rocks, &c.; and also to
survey, make charts, and take views of such bays, harbours, and different parts of the coast,
and to make such notations thereon as may be useful either to navigation or commerce. You are
also carefully to observe the nature of the soil, and the produce thereof; the animals and
fowls that inhabit or frequent it; the fishes that are to be found in the rivers or upon the
coast, and in what plenty; and, in case there are any peculiar to such places, to describe
them as minutely, and to make as accurate drawings of them, as you can; and, if you find any
metals, minerals, or valuable stones, or any extraneous fossils, you are to bring home specimens
of each, as also of the seeds of such trees, shrubs, plants, fruits, and grains, peculiar to
those places, as you may be able to collect, and to transmit them to our secretary, that proper
examination and experiments may be made of them. Yon are likewise to observe the genius, temper,
disposition, and number of the natives and inhabitants, where you find any; and to endeavour,
by all proper means, to cultivate a friendship with them, making them presents of such trinkets
as you may have on board, and they may like best, inviting them to traffic, and shewing them
every kind of civility and regard; but taking care, nevertheless, not to suffer yourself to
be surprised by them, but to be always on your guard against any accidents.

You are also, with the consent of the natives, to take possession, in the name of the King
of Great Britain, of convenient situations in such countries as you may discover, that have
not already been discovered or visited by any other European power, and to distribute among
the inhabitants such things as will remain as traces and testimonies of your having been there;
but if you find the countries so discovered are uninhabited, you are to take possession of
them for his majesty, by setting up proper marks and inscriptions, as first discoverers and
possessors.

But forasmuch as, in undertakings of this nature, several emergencies may arise not to be foreseen,
and therefore not particularly to be provided for by instructions before-hand, you are, in
all such cases, to proceed as you shall judge most advantageous to the service on which you
are employed.

You are, by all opportunities, to send to our secretary, for our information, accounts of your
proceedings, and copies of the surveys and drawings you shall have made; and upon your arrival
in England, you are immediately to repair to this office, in order to lay before us a full
account of your proceedings in the whole course of your voyage, taking care, before you leave
the sloop, to demand from the officers and petty officers the log-books and journals they may
have kept, and to seal them up for inspection; and enjoining them, and the whole crew, not
to divulge where they have been, until they shall have permission so to do: And you are to
direct Captain Clerke to do the same, with respect to the officers, petty officers, and crew
of the Discovery.

If any accident should happen to the Resolution in the course of the voyage, so as to disable
her from proceeding any farther, you are, in such case, to remove yourself and her crew into
the Discovery, and to prosecute your voyage in her; her commander being hereby strictly required
to receive you on board, and to obey your orders, the same, in every respect, as when you were
actually on board the Resolution. And, in case of your inability, by sickness or otherwise,
to carry these instructions into execution, you are to be careful to leave them with the next
officer in command, who is hereby required to execute them in the best manner he can.

Given under our hands the 6th day of July, 1776,

   SANDWICH,
   C. SPENCER,
   H. PALLISER.

By command of their lordships,

PH. STEPHENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Besides ordering Captain Cook to sail on this important voyage, government, in earnest about
the object of it, adopted a measure, which, while it could not but have a powerful operation
on the crews of the Resolution and Discovery, by adding the motives of interest to the obligations
of duty, at the same time encouraged all his majesty's subjects to engage in attempts toward
the proposed discovery. By the act of parliament, passed in 1745,[34] a reward of twenty thousand
pounds had been held out. But it had been held out only to the ships belonging to any of his
majesty's subjects, exclusive of his majesty's own ships. The act had a still more capital
defect. It held out this reward only to such ships as should discover a passage through Hudson's
Bay; and, as we shall soon take occasion to explain, it was, by this time, pretty certain that
no such passage existed within those limits. Effectual care was taken to remedy both these
defects by passing a new law; which, after reciting the provisions of the former, proceeds
as follows:--"And whereas many advantages, both to commerce and science, may be also expected
from the discovery of any northern passage for vessels by sea, between the Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans, be it enacted, That if any ship belonging to any of his majesty's subjects, or to his
majesty, shall find out, and sail through, any passage by sea between the Atlantic and Pacific
Oceans, in any direction, or parallel of the northern hemisphere, to the northward of the 52°
of northern latitude, the owners of such ships, if belonging to any of his majesty's subjects,
or the commander, officers, and seamen of such ship belonging to his majesty, shall receive,
as a reward for such discovery, the sum of twenty thousand pounds.

[Footnote 34: See the Statutes at Large, 18 George II. chap. 17.]

"And whereas ships employed, both in the Spitzbergen Seas, and in Davis's Straits, have frequent
opportunities of approaching the North Pole, though they have not time, during the course of
one summer, to penetrate into the Pacific Ocean; and whereas such approaches may greatly tend
to the discovery of a communication between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, as well as be
attended with many advantages to commerce and science, &c. be it enacted, That if any ship
shall approach to within 1° of the North Pole, the owner, &c. or commander, &c. so approaching,
shall receive, as a reward for such first approach, the sum of five thousand pounds."[35]

[Footnote 35: See the Statutes at Large, 1776, 16 George III. chap. 6.]

That nothing might be omitted that could facilitate the success of Captain Cook's expedition,
some time before he sailed, in the beginning of the summer of 1776, Lieutenant Pickersgill,
appointed commander of his majesty's armed brig the Lion, was ordered "to proceed to Davis's
Straits, for the protection of the British whale fishers;" and that first object being secured,
"he was then required and directed to proceed up Baffin's Bay, and explore the coasts thereof,
as far as in his judgment the same could be done without apparent risk, taking care to leave
the above-mentioned bay so timely as to secure his return to England in the fall of the year;"
and it was farther enjoined to him, "to make nautical remarks of every kind, and to employ
Mr Lane (master of the vessel under his command) in surveying, making charts, and taking views
of the several bays, harbours, and different parts of the coast which he might visit, and in
making such notations thereon as might be useful to geography and navigation."[36]

[Footnote 36: From his MS. Instructions, dated May 14, 1776.]

Pickersgill, we see, was not to attempt the discovery of the passage. He was directed to explore
the coasts of Baffin's Bay, only to enable him to bring back, the same year, some information,
which might be an useful direction toward planning an intended voyage into that bay the ensuing
summer, to try for the discovery of a passage on that side, with a view to co-operate with
Captain Cook; who, it was supposed, (from the tenor of his instructions,) would be trying for
this passage, about the same time, from the opposite side of America.

Pickersgill, obeying his instructions, at least in this instance, did return that year, but
there were sufficient reasons for not sending him out again, and the command of the next expedition
into Baffin's Bay was conferred on Lieutenant Young; whose instructions, having an immediate
connection with our voyage, are here inserted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract of Instructions to Lieutenant Young, commanding the Lion Armed Vessel, dated 13th March,
1777. But if you shall succeed in the attempt, and shall find the season too far advanced for
you to return the same way, you are then to look out for the most convenient place to winter
in, and to endeavour to return by the said passage as early in the next year as the season
will admit, and then to make the best of your way to England, as above directed.

In case, however, you should not find, or should be satisfied there is not any probability
of finding any such passage, or, finding it, you should not be able to get through in the vessel
you command, you are then to return to England, as before-mentioned, unless you shall find
any branch of the sea leading to the westward which you shall judge likely to afford a communication
between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and which you shall not be able to explore in the
course of this year, it being, in that case, left to your discretion to stay the winter in
the most commodious situation you can find, in order to pursue the discovery next year, if
you shall find it advisable so to do; and, having discovered such passage, or not succeeded
in the attempt, you are to make the best of your way to England, as above directed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was natural to hope, that something would have been done in one or other, or in both these
voyages of the Lion, that might have opened our views with regard to the practicability of
a passage from this side of America. But, unfortunately, the execution did not answer the expectations
conceived. Pickersgill, who had acquired professional experience when acting under Captain
Cook, justly merited the censure he received, for improper behaviour when intrusted with command
in Davis's Strait; and the talents of Young, as it afterward appeared, were more adapted to
contribute to the glory of a victory, as commander of a line of battle-ship, than to add to
geographical discoveries, by encountering mountains of ice, and exploring unknown coasts.[37]

[Footnote 37: In the Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxviii. p, 1057, we have the track of
Pickersgill's voyage, which, probably, may be of use to our Greenland ships, as it contains
many observations for fixing the longitude and latitude of the coasts in Davis's Strait. But
it appears that he never entered Baffin's Bay, the highest northern latitude to which he advanced
being 68° 14'. As to Young's proceedings, having failed absolutely in making any discovery,
it is of less consequence, that no communication of his journal could be procured.--D.]

Both Pickersgill and Young having been ordered to proceed into Baffin's Bay; and Captain Cook
being directed not to begin his search till he should arrive in the latitude of 65°, it may
not be improper to say something here of the reasons which weighed with those who planned the
voyages, and framed the instructions, to carry their views so far northward, as the proper
situation, where the passage, if it existed at all, was likely to be attempted with success.
It may be asked, why was Hudson's Bay neglected on our side of America; and why was not Captain
Cook ordered to begin his search on its opposite side, in much lower latitudes? particularly,
why not explore the strait leading into the western sea of John de Fuca, between the latitudes
of 47° and 48°; the Archipelago of St Lazarus of Admiral de Fonte, between 50° and 55°; and
the rivers and lakes through which he found a passage north-eastward, till he met with a ship
from Boston?

As to the pretended discoveries of de Fuca, the Greek pilot, or of de Fonte, the Spanish admiral,
though they have sometimes found their way into fictitious maps, or have been warmly contended
for by the espousers of fanciful systems, to have directed Captain Cook to spend any time in
tracing them, would have been as wise a measure as if he had been directed to trace the situation
of Lilliput or Brobdignag. The latter are, indeed, confessedly, mere objects of imagination;
and the former, destitute of any sufficient external evidence, bear so many striking marks
of internal absurdity, as warrant our pronouncing them to be the fabric of imposture. Captain
Cook's instructions were founded on an accurate knowledge of what had been already done, and
of what still remained to do; and this knowledge pointed out the inutility of beginning his
search for a passage till his arrival in the latitude of 65°. Of this every fair and capable
enquirer will be abundantly convinced, by an attention to the following particulars:

Middleton, who commanded the expedition in 1741 and 1742, into Hudson's Bay, had proceeded
farther north than any of his predecessors in that navigation. But though, from his former
acquaintance with that bay, to which he had frequently sailed in the service of the company,
he had entertained hopes of finding out a passage through it into the Pacific Ocean, the observations
which he was now enabled to make, induced him to change his opinion; and, on his return to
England, he made an unfavourable report. Mr Dobbs, the patron of the enterprise, did not acquiesce
in this; and, fortified in his original idea of the practicability of the passage, by the testimony
of some of Middleton's officers, he appealed to the public, accusing him of having misrepresented
facts, and of having, from interested motives, in concert with the Hudson's Bay Company, decided
against the practicability of the passage, though the discoveries of his own voyage had put
it within his reach.

He had, between the latitude of 65° and 66°, found a very considerable inlet running westward,
into which he entered with his ships; and, "after repeated trials of the tides, and endeavours
to discover the nature and course of the opening, for three weeks successively, he found the
flood constantly to come from the eastward, and that it was a large river he had got into,"
to which he gave the name of Wager River."[38]

[Footnote 38: See the Abstract of his Journal, published by Mr Dobbs.]

The accuracy, or rather the fidelity, of this report, was denied by Mr Dobbs, who contended
that this opening is a strait, and not a fresh-water river; and that Middleton, if he had examined
it properly, would have found a passage through it to the western American Ocean. The failure
of this voyage, therefore, only served to furnish our zealous advocate for the discovery, with
new arguments for attempting it once more; and he had the good fortune, after getting the reward
of twenty thousand pounds established by act of parliament, to prevail upon a society of gentlemen
and merchants to fit out the Dobbs and California; which ships, it was hoped, would be able
to find their way into the Pacific Ocean, by the very opening which Middleton's Voyage had
pointed out, and which he was believed to have misrepresented.

This renovation of hope only produced fresh disappointment For it is well known, that the voyage
of the Dobbs and California, instead of confuting, strongly confirmed all that Middleton had
asserted. The supposed strait was found to be nothing more than a fresh-water river, and its
utmost western navigable boundaries were now ascertained, by accurate examination. But though
Wager's Strait had thus disappointed our hopes, as had also done Rankin's Inlet, which was
now found to be a close bay; and though other arguments, founded on the supposed course of
the tides in Hudson's Bay, appeared to be groundless, such is our attachment to an opinion
once adopted, that, even after the unsuccessful issue of the voyage of the Dobbs and California,
a passage through some other place in that bay was, by many, considered as attainable; and,
particularly, Chesterfield's (formerly: called Bowden's) Inlet, lying between latitude 65°
and 64°, succeeded Wager's Strait, in the sanguine expectations of those who remained unconvinced
by former disappointments. Mr Ellis, who was on board the Dobbs, and who wrote the history
of the voyage, holds up this, as one of the places where the passage may be sought for, upon
very rational grounds, and with very good effects.[39] He also mentions Repulse Bay, nearly
in latitude 67°; but as to this he speaks less confidently; only saying, that by an attempt
there, we might probably approach nearer to the discovery.[40] He had good reason for thus
guarding his expression; for the committee, who directed this voyage, admitting the impracticability
of effecting a passage at Repulse Bay, had refused allowing the ships to go into it, being
satisfied as to that place.[41]

[Footnote 39: Ellis's Voyage, p. 328.]

[Footnote 40: Ibid, p. 330.]

[Footnote 41: Account of the voyage, by the clerk of the California, vol. ii. p. 273. Mr Dobbs
himself says, "That he thought the passage would be impracticable, or, at least, very difficult,
in case there was one farther north than 67°."--Account of Hudson's Bay, p. 99.--D.]

Setting Repulse Bay, therefore, aside, within which we have no reason for believing that any
inlet exists, there did not remain any part of Hudson's Bay to be searched, but Chesterfield's
Inlet, and a small tract of coast between the latitude 62°, and what is called the South Point
of Main, which had been left unexplored by the Dobbs and California.

But this last gleam of hope has now disappeared. The aversion of the Hudson's Bay Company to
contribute any thing to the discovery of a north-west passage had been loudly reported by Mr
Dobbs; and the public seemed to believe that the charge was well founded. But still, in justice
to them, it must be allowed, that in 1720, they had sent Messrs Knight and Barlow, in a sloop
on this very discovery; but these unfortunate people were never more heard of. Mr Scroggs,
who sailed in search of them, in 1722, only brought back proofs of their shipwreck, but no
fresh intelligence about a passage, which he was also to look for. They also sent a sloop,
and a shallop, to try for this discovery, in 1787; but to no purpose. If obstructions were
thrown in the way of Captain Middleton, and of the commanders of the Dobbs and California,
the governor and committee of the Hudson's Bay Company, since that time, we must acknowledge,
have made amends for the narrow prejudices, of their predecessors; and we have it in our power
to appeal to facts, which abundantly testify, that every thing has been done by them, that
could be required by the public, toward perfecting the search for a north-west passage.

In the year 1761, Captain Christopher sailed from Fort Churchill, in the sloop Churchill; and
his voyage was not quite fruitless; for he sailed up Chesterfield's Inlet, through which a
passage had, by Mr Ellis's account of it, been so generally expected. But when the water turned
brackish, which marked that he was not in a strait, but in a river, he returned.

To leave no room for a variety of opinion, however, he was ordered to repeat the voyage the
ensuing summer, in the same sloop, and Mr Norton, in a cutter, was appointed to attend him.
By the favour of the governor and committee of the company, the journals of Captain Christopher,
and of Mr Norton, and Captain Christopher's chart of the inlet, have been readily communicated.
From these authentic documents, it appears that the search and examination of Chesterfield's
Inlet was now completed. It was found to end in a fresh-water lake, at the distance of about
one hundred and seventy miles from the sea. This lake was found also to be about twenty-one
leagues long, and from five to ten broad, and to be completely closed up on every side, except
to the west, where there was a little rivulet; to survey the state of which, Mr Norton and
the crew of the cutter having landed, and marched up the country, saw that it soon terminated
in three falls, one above another, and not water for a small boat over them; and ridges, mostly
dry from side to side, for five, or six miles higher.

Thus ends Chesterfield's Inlet, and all Mr Ellis's expectations of a passage through it to
the western ocean. The other parts of the coast, from latitude 62°, to the South Point of Main,
within which limits hopes were also entertained of finding a passage, have, of late years,
been thoroughly explored. It is here that Pistol Bay is situated; which the author who has
writ last in this country, on the probability of a north-west passage,[42] speaks of as the
only remaining part of Hudson's Bay where this western communication may exist. But this has
been also examined; and, on the authority of Captain Christopher, we can assure the reader,
that there is no inlet of any consequence in all that part of the coast. Nay, he has, in an
open boat, sailed round the bottom of what is called Pistol Bay, and, in stead of a passage
to a western sea, found it does not run above three or four miles inland.

[Footnote 42: Printed for Jeffreys, in 1768. His words are, "There remains then to be searched
for the discovery of a passage, the opening called Pistol Bay, in Hudson's Bay," p. 122--D]

Besides these voyages by sea, which satisfy us that we must not look for a passage to the south
of 67° of latitude, we are indebted to the Hudson's Bay Company for a journey by land, which
has thrown much additional light on this matter, by affording what may be called demonstration,
how much farther north, at least in some part of their voyage, ships must hold their course,
before they can pass from one side of America to the other. The northern Indians, who come
down to the company's forts for trade, had brought to the knowledge of our people, the existence
of a river, which, from copper abounding near it, had got the name of the Copper-mine River.
We read much about this river in Mr Dobbs's publications, and he considers the Indian accounts
of it as favourable to his system. The company being desirous of examining the matter with
precision, instructed their governor of Prince of Wales's Fort, to send a proper person to
travel by land, under the escort of some trusty northern Indians, with orders to proceed to
this famous river, to take an accurate survey of its course, and to trace it to the sea, into
which it empties itself. Mr Hearne, a young gentleman in their service, who, having been an
officer in the navy, was well qualified to make observations for fixing the longitude and latitude,
and make drawings of the country he should pass through, and of the river which he was to examine,
was appointed for this service.

Accordingly, he set out from Fort Prince of Wales, on Churchill River, in latitude 58° 50',
on the 7th of December, 1770; and the whole of his proceedings, from time to time, are faithfully
preserved in his journal. The publication of this is an acceptable present to the world, as
it draws a plain artless picture of the savage modes of life, the scanty means of subsistence,
and indeed of the singular wretchedness, in every respect, of the various tribes, who, without
fixed habitations, pass their miserable lives, roving throughout the dreary deserts, and over
the frozen lakes of the immense tract of continent through which Mr Hearne passed, and which
he may be said to have added to the geography of the globe. His general course was to the northwest.
In the month of June 1771, being then at a place called Conge catha wha Chaga, he had, to use
his own words, two good observations, both by meridian and double altitudes, the mean of which
determines this place to be in latitude 66° 46' N., and, by account, in longitude 24° 2' W.
of Churchill River. On the 13th of July (having left Conge catha wha Chaga on the 3d, and travelling
still to the west of north) he reached the Copper-mine River; and was not a little surprised
to find it differ so much from the descriptions given of it by the natives at the fort; for,
instead of being likely to be navigable for a ship, it is, at this part, scarcely navigable
for an Indian canoe; three falls being in sight, at one view, and being choaked up with shoals
and stony ridges.

Here Mr Hearne began his survey of the river. This he continued till he arrived at its mouth,
near which his northern Indians massacred twenty-one Esquimaux, whom they surprised in their
tents. We shall give Mr Hearne's account of his arrival at the sea, in his own words: "After
the Indians had plundered the tents of the Esquimaux of all the copper, &c. they were then
again ready to assist me in making an end to the survey; the sea then in sight from the N.W.
by W. to the N.E., distant about eight miles. It was then about five in the morning of the
17th, when I again proceeded to survey the river to the mouth, still found, in every respect,
no ways likely, or a possibility of being made navigable, being full of shoals and falls; and,
at the entrance, the river emptying itself over a dry flat of the shore. For the tide was then
out, and seemed, by the edges of the ice, to flow about twelve or fourteen feet, which will
only reach a little within the river's mouth. That being the case, the water in the river had
not the least brackish taste. But I am sure of its being the sea, or some part thereof, by
the quantity of whale-bone and seal-skins the Esquimaux had at their tents; as also the number
of seals which I saw upon the ice. The sea, at the river's mouth, was full of islands and shoals,
as far as I could see, by the assistance of a pocket-telescope; and the ice was not yet broken
up, only thawed away about three quarters of a mile from the snore, and a little way round
the islands and shoals.

"By the time I had completed this survey, it was about one in the morning of the 18th; but
in these high latitudes, and this time of the year, the sun is always a good height above the
horizon. It then came on a thick drizzling rain, with a thick fog; and, as finding the river
and sea, in every respect, not likely to be of any utility, I did not think it worth while
to wait for fair weather, to determine the latitude exactly by an observation. But, by the
extraordinary care I took in observing the courses and distances, walked from Conge catha wha
Chaga, where I had two good observations, the latitude may be depended on, within twenty miles
at farthest."

From the map which Mr Hearne constructed of the country through which he passed, in this singular
journey, it appears that the mouth of the Copper-mine River lies in the latitude 72°, and above
25° west longitude from the fort, from whence he took his departure.[43]

[Footnote 43: Mr Hearne's journey, back from the Copper-mine River, to Fort Prince of Wales,
lasted till June 30, 1772. From his first setting out till his return, he had employed near
a year and seven months. The unparalleled hardships he suffered, and the essential service
he performed, met with a suitable reward from his masters, and he was made governor of Fort
Prince of Wales, where he was taken prisoner by the French in 1782; but soon afterwards returned
to his station."--D.

This opportunity is taken to mention, that Mr Arrowsmith lays down Copper-mine River in longitude
113°, and not in 120°, according to Mr Hearne. In the opinion of Mr H. this river flows into
an inland sea. Be this as it may, the result of his discoveries is unfavourable to the supposition
of there being a north-west passage, Mr Hearne's journal was not published till 1795, considerably
after the date of Dr Douglas's writing. Some alterations have consequently been made on the
text and notes of that gentleman.--E.]

The consequences resulting from this extensive discovery, are obvious. We now see that the
continent of North America stretches from Hudson's Bay so far to the north-west, that Mr Hearne
had travelled near thirteen hundred miles before he arrived at the sea. His most western distance
from the coast of Hudson's Bay was near six hundred miles; and that his Indian guides were
well apprised of a vast tract of continent stretching farther on in that direction, is certain
from many circumstances mentioned in his journal.

What is now mentioned with regard to the discoveries made by the Hudson's Bay Company, was
well known to the noble lord who presided at the Board of Admiralty when this voyage was undertaken;
and the intimate connection of those discoveries with the plan of the voyage, of course, regulated
the instructions given to Captain Cook.

And now, may we not take it upon us to appeal to every candid and capable enquirer, whether
that part of the instructions which directed the captain not to lose time, in exploring rivers
or inlets, or upon any other account, till he got into the latitude of 65°, was not framed
judiciously; as there were such indubitable proofs that no passage existed so far to the south
as any part of Hudson's Bay, and that, if a passage could be effected at all, part of it, at
least, must be traversed by the ships as far to the northward as the latitude 72°, where Mr
Hearne arrived at the sea?

We may add, as a farther consideration in support of this article of the instructions, that
Beering's Asiatic discoveries, in 1728, having traced that continent to the latitude of 67°,
Captain Cook's approach toward that latitude was to be wished for, that he might be enabled
to bring back more authentic information than the world had hitherto obtained, about the relative
situation and vicinity of the two continents, which was absolutely necessary to be known, before
the practicability of sailing between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, in any northern direction,
could be ascertained.

After all, that search, in a lower latitude, which they who give credit (if any such there
now be) to the pretended discoveries of De Fonte, affect to wish had been recommended to Captain
Cook, has (if that will cure them of their credulity) been satisfactorily made. The Spaniards,
roused from their lethargy by our voyages, and having caught a spark of enterprise from our
repeated visits to the Pacific Ocean, have followed us more than once into the line of our
discoveries within the southern tropic; and have also fitted out expeditions to explore the
American continent to the north of California. It is to be lamented, that there should be any
reasons why the transactions of those Spanish voyages have not been fully disclosed, with the
same liberal spirit of information which other nations have adopted. But, fortunately, this
excessive caution of the court of Spain has been defeated, at least in one instance, by the
publication of an authentic journal of their voyage of discovery upon the coast of America,
in 1775, for which the world is indebted to the honourable Mr Daines Barrington. This publication,
which conveys some information of real consequence to geography, and has therefore been referred
to more than once in the following work, is particularly valuable in this respect, that some
parts of the coast which Captain Cook, in his progress northward, was prevented, by unfavourable
winds, from approaching, were seen and examined by the Spanish ships who preceded him; and
the perusal of the following extract from their journal may be recommended to those (if any
such there be) who would represent it as an imperfection in Captain Cook's voyage, that he
had not an opportunity of examining the coast of America, in the latitude assigned to the discoveries
of Admiral Fonte. "We now attempted to find out the straits of Admiral Fonte, though, as yet,
we had not discovered the Archipelago of St Lazarus, through which he is said to have sailed.
With this intent, we searched every bay and recess of the coast, and sailed round every headland,
lying-to in the night, that we might not lose sight of this entrance. After these pains taken,
and being favoured by a north-west wind, it may be pronounced that no such straits are to be
found."[44]

[Footnote 44: Journal of a voyage in 1775 by Don Francisco Antonio Maurelle, in Mr Barrington's
Miscellanies, p. 508.--D.]

In this journal, the Spaniards boast of "having reached so high a latitude as 58°, beyond what
any other navigators had been able to effect in those seas."[45] Without diminishing the merit
of their performance, we may be permitted to say, that it will appear very inconsiderable indeed,
in comparison of what Captain Cook effected, in the voyage of which an account is given in
these volumes. Besides exploring, the land in the South Indian Ocean, of which Kerguelen, in
two voyages, had been able to obtain but a very imperfect knowledge; adding also many considerable
accessions to the geography of the Friendly Islands; and discovering the noble group, now called
Sandwich Islands, in the northern part of the Pacific Ocean, of which not the faintest trace
can be met with in the account of any former voyage; besides these preliminary discoveries,
the reader of the following work will find, that in one summer, our English navigator discovered
a much larger proportion of the north-west coast of America than the Spaniards, though settled
in the neighbourhood, had, in all their attempts, for above two hundred years, been able to
do; that he has put it beyond all doubt that Beering and Tscherikoff had really discovered
the continent of America in 1741, and has also established the prolongation of that continent
westward opposite Kamschatka, which speculative writers, wedded to favourite systems, had affected
so much to disbelieve, and which, though admitted by Muller, had, since he wrote, been considered
as disproved, by later Russian discoveries;[46] that, besides ascertaining the true position
of the western coasts of America, with some inconsiderable interruptions, from latitude 44°
up to beyond the latitude 70°, he has also ascertained the position of the northeastern extremity
of Asia, by confirming Beering's discoveries in 1728, and adding extensive accessions of his
own; that he has given us more authentic information concerning the islands lying between the
two continents, than the Kamtschatka traders, ever since Beering first taught them to venture
on this sea, had been able to procure; that, by fixing the relative situation of Asia and America,
and discovering the narrow bounds of the strait that divides them, he has thrown a blaze of
light upon this important part of the geography of the globe, and solved the puzzling problem
about the peopling of America, by tribes destitute of the necessary means to attempt long navigations;
and, lastly, that, though the principal object of the voyage failed, the world will be greatly
benefited even by the failure, as it has brought us to the knowledge of the existence of the
impediments which future navigators may expect to meet with, in attempting to go to the East
Indies through Beering's strait.[47]

[Footnote 45: Ibid. p. 507. We learn from Maurelle's Journal, that another voyage had been
some time before performed upon the coast of America; but the utmost northern progress of it
was to latitude 55°.--D.]

[Footnote 46: See Coxe's Russian Discoveries, p. 26, 27, &c. The fictions of speculative geographers
in the southern hemisphere, have been continents; in the northern hemisphere, they have been
seas. It may be observed, therefore, that if Captain Cook in his first voyages annihilated
imaginary southern lands, he has made amends for the havock, in his third voyage, by annihilating
imaginary northern seas, and filling up the vast space which had been allotted to them, with
the solid contents of his new discoveries of American land farther west and north than had
hitherto been traced.--D.]

[Footnote 47: The Russians seem to owe much to England, in matters respecting their own possessions.
It is singular enough that one of our countrymen, Dr Campbell, (see his edition of Harris's
voyages, vol. ii. p. 1021) has preserved many valuable particulars of Beering's first voyage,
of which Muller himself, the historian of their earlier discoveries, makes no mention; that
it should be another of our countrymen, Mr Coxe, who first published a satisfactory account
of their later discoveries; and that the King of Great Britain's ships should traverse the
globe in 1778, to confirm to the Russian empire the possession of near thirty degrees, or above
six hundred miles, of continent, which Mr Engel, in his zeal for the practicability of a north-east
passage, would prune away from the length of Asia to the eastward. See his Alanoires Geographiques,
&c. Lausanne 1765; which, however, contains much real information, and many parts of which
are confirmed by Captain Cook's American discoveries.--D.

It shews some inconsistency in Captain Krusenstern, that whilst he speaks of the too successful
policy of the commercial nations of Europe to lull Russia into a state of slumber as to her
interests, he should give us to understand, that the same effect which Captain Cook's third
voyage produced on the speculative and enterprising spirit of English merchants, had been occasioned
among his countrymen forty years sooner, by the discovery of the Aleutic islands and the north-west
coast of America. But, in fact, it is the highest censure he could possibly have passed on
his own government, to admit, that it had been subjected to such stupifying treatment. This
it certainly could not have been, without the previous existence of such a lethargy as materially
depreciates the virtue of any opiate employed. There is no room, however, for the allegation
made; and the full amount of her slumber is justly imputable to the gross darkness which so
long enveloped the horizon of Russia. Whose business was it to rouse her? What nation could
be supposed to possess so much of the spirit of knight-errantry, as to be induced to instruct
her savages as to the advantages of cultivating commerce, without a cautious regard to its
own particular interests in the first place? But the bold, though somewhat impolitic seaman,
has perhaps stumbled on the real cause of the slow progress which she has hitherto made in
the course which his sanguine imagination has pointed out for her. Speaking of her inexhaustible
springs and incentives to commerce, he nevertheless admits, that there are obstacles which
render it difficult for her to become a trading nation. But these obstacles, he says, do not
warrant a doubt of the possibility of removing them. "Let the monarch only express his pleasure
with regard to them, and the most difficult are already overcome!" The true prosperity of Russia,
it is indubitably certain, will be infinitely more advanced by fostering her infant commerce,
than by any augmentation of territories which the policy or arms of her sovereign can accomplish.
But he will always require much self-denial to avoid intermeddling with the concerns of other
nations, and to restrict his labours to the improvement of his own real interests.--E.]

The extended review we have taken of the preceding voyages, and the general outline we have
sketched out, of the transactions of the last, which are recorded at full length in these volumes,
will not, it is hoped, be considered as a prolix or unnecessary detail. It will serve to give
a just notion of the whole plan of discovery executed by his majesty's commands. And it appearing
that much was aimed at, and much accomplished, in the unknown parts of the globe, in both hemispheres,
there needs no other consideration, to give full satisfaction to those who possess an enlarged
way of thinking, that a variety of useful purposes must have been effected by these researches.
But there are others, no doubt, who, too diffident of their own abilities, or too indolent
to exert them, would wish to have their reflections assisted, by pointing out what those useful
purposes are. For the service of such, the following enumeration of particulars is entered
upon. And if there should be any, who affect to undervalue the plan or the execution of our
voyages, what shall now be offered, if it do not convince them, may, at least, check the influence
of their unfavourable decision.

1. It may be fairly considered, as one great advantage accruing to the world from our late
surveys of the globe, that they have confuted fanciful theories, too likely to give birth to
impracticable undertakings.

After Captain Cook's persevering and fruitless traverses through every corner of the southern
hemisphere, who, for the future, will pay any attention to the ingenious reveries of Campbell,
de Brosses, and de Buffon? or hope to establish an intercourse with such a continent as Manpertuis's
fruitful imagination had pictured? A continent equal, at least, in extent, to all the civilized
countries in the known northern hemisphere, where new men, new animals, new productions of
every kind, might be brought forward to our view, and discoveries be made, which would open
inexhaustible treasures of commerce?[48] We can now boldly take it upon us to discourage all
expeditions, formed on such reasonings of speculative philosophers, into a quarter of the globe,
where our persevering English navigator, instead of this promised fairy land, found nothing
but barren rocks, scarcely affording shelter to penguins and seals; and dreary seas, and mountains
of ice, occupying the immense space allotted to imaginary paradises, and the only treasures
there to be discovered, to reward the toil, and to compensate the dangers, of the unavailing
search.

[Footnote 48: See Maupertuis's Letter to the King of Prussia. The author of the Preliminary
Discourse to Bougainville's Voyage aux Isles Malouines, computes that the southern continent
(for the existence of which, he owns, we must depend more on the conjectures of philosophers,
than on the testimony of voyagers) contains eight or ten millions of square leagues.--D.]

Or, if we carry our reflections into the northern hemisphere, could Mr Dobbs have made a single
convert, much less could he have been the successful solicitor of two different expeditions,
and have met with encouragement from the legislature, with regard to his favourite passage
through Hudson's Bay, if Captain Christopher had previously explored its coasts, and if Mr
Hearne had walked over the immense continent behind it? Whether, after Captain Cook's and Captain
Clerke's discoveries on the west side of America, and their report of the state of Beering's
Strait, there can be sufficient encouragement to make future attempts to penetrate into the
Pacific Ocean in any northern direction, is a question, for the decision of which the public
will be indebted to this work.

2. But our voyages will benefit the world, not only by discouraging future unprofitable searches,
but also by lessening the dangers and distresses formerly experienced in those seas, which
are within the line of commerce and navigation, now actually subsisting. In how many instances
have the mistakes of former navigators, in fixing the true situations of important places,
been rectified? What accession to the variation chart? How many nautical observations have
been collected, and are now ready to be consulted, in directing a ship's course, along rocky
shores, through narrow straits, amidst perplexing currents, and dangerous shoals? But, above
all, what numbers of new bays, and harbours, and anchoring-places, are now, for the first time,
brought forward, where ships may be sheltered, and their crews find tolerable refreshments?
To enumerate all these, would be to transcribe great part of the journals of our several commanders,
whose labours will endear them to every navigator whom trade or war may carry into their tracks.
Every nation that sends a ship to sea will partake of the benefit; but Great Britain herself,
whose commerce is boundless, must take the lead in reaping the full advantage of her own discoveries.

In consequence of all these various improvements, lessening the apprehensions of engaging in
long voyages, may we not reasonably indulge the pleasing hope, that fresh branches of commerce
may, even in our own time, be attempted, and successfully carried on? Our hardy adventurers
in the whale-fishery have already found their way, within these few years, into the South Atlantic;
and who knows what fresh sources of commerce may still be opened, if the prospect of gain can
be added, to keep alive the spirit of enterprise? If the situation of Great Britain be too
remote, other trading nations will assuredly avail themselves of our discoveries. We may soon
expect to hear that the Russians, now instructed by us where to find the American continent,
have extended their voyages from the Fox Islands to Cook's River, and Prince William's Sound.
And if Spain itself should not be tempted to trade from its most northern Mexican ports, by
the fresh mine of wealth discovered in the furs of King George's Sound, which they may transport
in their Manilla ships, as a favourite commodity for the Chinese market, that market may probably
be supplied by a direct trade to America, from Canton itself, with those valuable articles
which the inhabitants of China have hitherto received, only by the tedious and expensive circuit
of Kamtschatka and Kiachta.[49]

[Footnote 49: It is not unlikely that Captain Krusenstern was indebted to the hint now given,
for his proposal to establish a direct commercial intercourse with China. The reader who desires
information respecting the nature of the fur trade carried on betwixt the north-west coast
of America, the neighbouring islands, and China, may consult his introduction. The affairs
of Spain, it may be remarked, long precluded the requisite attention to her commercial interests,
and do not now promise a speedy recovery under her apparently infatuated government. To Nootka
or King George's Sound, mentioned in the text, that power abandoned all right and pretensions,
in favour of Great Britain, in 1790, after an altercation, which at one time bid fair to involve
the two kingdoms in war. It was during this dispute, and in view of its hostile termination,
that Mr Pitt gave his sanction to a scheme for revolutionizing the Spanish colonies, an event
which, if not now encouraged by any direct assistance, bears too complacent an aspect on our
commercial interests not to be regarded with a large portion of good wishes. It is impossible,
indeed, excluding altogether every idea of personal advantage, not to hope highly, at least,
of any efforts which may be made to wrest the souls and bodies of millions from the clutch
of ignorance and tyranny. The fate of these colonists is by no means the most unimportant spectacle
which the passing drama of the world exhibits to the eye of an enlightened and humane politician.--E.]

These, and many other commercial improvements, may reasonably be expected to result from the
British discoveries, even in our own times.

[Footnote 50: Cook's second voyage.]

3. Admitting, however, that we may have expressed too sanguine expectations of commercial advantages,
either within our own reach, or gradually to be unfolded at some future period, as the result
of our voyages of discovery, we may still be allowed, to consider them as a laudable effort
to add to the stock of human knowledge, with regard to an object which cannot but deserve the
attention of enlightened man. To exert our faculties in devising ingenious modes of satisfying
ourselves about the magnitude and distance of the sun; to extend our acquaintance with the
system, to which that luminary is the common centre, by tracing the revolutions of a new planet,
or the appearance of a new comet; to carry our bold researches through all the immensity of
space, where world beyond world rises to the view of the astonished observer; these are employments
which none but those incapable of pursuing them can depreciate, and which every one capable
of pursuing them must delight in, as a dignified exercise of the powers of the human mind.
But while we direct our studies to distant worlds, which, after all our exertions, we must
content ourselves with having barely discovered to exist, it would be a strange neglect, indeed,
and would argue a most culpable want of rational curiosity, if we did not use our best endeavours
to arrive at a full acquaintance with the contents of our own planet; of that little spot in
the immense universe, on which we have been placed, and the utmost limits of which, at least
its habitable parts, we possess the means of ascertaining, and describing, by actual examination.

So naturally doth this reflection present itself, that to know something of the terraqueous
globe, is a favourite object with every one who can taste the lowest rudiments of learning.
Let us not, therefore, think so meanly of the times in which we live, as to suppose it possible
that full justice will not be done to the noble plan of discovery, so steadily and so successfully
carried on, since the accession of his majesty; which cannot fail to be considered, in every
succeeding age, as a splendid period in the history of our country, and to add to our national
glory, by distinguishing Great Britain as taking the lead in the most arduous undertakings
for the common benefit of the human race. Before these voyages took place, nearly half the
surface of the globe we inhabit was hid in obscurity and confusion. What is still wanting to
complete our geography may justly be termed the minutiae of that science.

4. Let us now carry our thoughts somewhat farther. It is fortunate for the interests of knowledge,
that acquisitions, in any one branch, generally, and indeed unavoidably, lead to acquisitions
in other branches, perhaps of still greater consequence; and that we cannot even gratify mere
curiosity without being rewarded with valuable instruction. This observation applies to the
subject before us. Voyages, in which new oceans have been traversed, and in which new countries
have been visited, can scarcely ever be performed without bringing forward to our view fresh
objects of science. Even when we are to take our report of what was discovered from the mere
sailor, whose knowledge scarcely goes beyond the narrow limits of his own profession, and whose
enquiries are not directed by philosophical discernment, it will be unfortunate indeed if something
hath not been remarked, by which the scholar may profit, and useful accessions be made to our
old stock of information. And if this be the case in general, how much more must be gained
by the particular voyages now under consideration? Besides naval officers equally skilled to
examine the coasts they might approach, as to delineate them accurately upon their charts,
artists[51] were engaged, who, by their drawings, might illustrate what could only be imperfectly
described; mathematicians,[52] who might treasure up an extensive series of scientific observations;
and persons versed in the various departments of the history of nature, who might collect,
or record, all that they should find new and valuable, throughout the wide extent of their
researches. But while most of these associates of our naval discoverers were liberally rewarded
by the public, there was one gentleman, who, thinking it the noblest reward he could receive,
to have an opportunity of making the ample fortune he inherited from his ancestors subservient
to the improvement of science, stepped forward of his own accord, and, submitting to the hardships
and dangers of a circumnavigation of the globe, accompanied Captain Cook in the Endeavour.
The learned world, I may also say the unlearned, will never forget the obligations which it
owes to Sir Joseph Banks.

[Footnote 51: Messrs Hodges and Webber, whose drawings have ornamented and illustrated this
and Captain Cook's second voyage.--D.]

[Footnote 52: Mr Green, in the Endeavour; Messrs Wales and Bayly, in the Resolution and the
Adventure; Mr Bayly, a second time, jointly with Captains Cook and King in this voyage; and
Mr Lyons, who accompanied Lord Mulgrave.--D.]

What real acquisitions have been gained by this munificent attention to science, cannot be
better expressed than in the words of Mr Wales, who engaged in one of these voyages himself,
and contributed largely to the benefits derived from them.

"That branch of natural knowledge which may be called nautical astronomy, was undoubtedly in
its infancy when these voyages were first undertaken. Both instruments and observers, which
deserved the name, were very rare; and so late as the year 1770, it was thought necessary,
in the appendix to Mayor's Tables, published by the Board of Longitude, to state facts, in
contradiction to the assertions of so celebrated an astronomer as the Abbé de la Caille, that
the altitude of the sun at noon, the easiest and most simple of all observations, could not
be taken with certainty to a less quantity than five, six, seven, or even eight minutes.[53]
But those who will give themselves the trouble to look into the astronomical observations,
made in Captain Cook's last voyage, will find, that there were few, even of the petty officers,
who could not observe the distance of the moon from the sun, or a star, the most delicate of
all observations, with sufficient accuracy. It may be added, that the method of making and
computing observations for finding the variation of the compass, is better known, and more
frequently practised, by those who have been on these voyages, than by most others. Nor is
there, perhaps, a person who ranks as an officer, and has been concerned in them, who would
not, whatever his real skill may be, feel ashamed to have it thought that he did not know how
to observe for, and compute the time at sea; though, but a short while before these voyages
were set on foot, such a thing was scarcely ever heard of amongst seamen; and even first-rate
astronomers doubted the possibility of doing it with sufficient exactness.[54]

[Footnote 53: The Abbé's words are,--"Si ceux qui promettent une si grande precision dans ces
sortes de methodes, avoient navigué quelques temps, ils auroient vû souvent, que dans l'observation
la plus simple de toutes, qui est celle de la hauteur du soleil à midi, deux observations,
munis de bons quartiers de reflexion, bien rectifiés, different entr'eux, lorsqu'ils observent
chacun à part, de 5', 6', 7', & 8'."--Ephémer. 1755--1765. Introduction, p. 32.

It must be, however, mentioned, in justice to M. de la Caille, that he attempted to introduce
the lunar method of discovering the longitude, and proposed a plan of calculations of the moon's
distance from the sun and fixed stars; but, through the imperfection of his instruments, his
success was much less than that method was capable of affording. The bringing it into general
use was reserved for Dr Maskelyne, our Astronomer Royal. See the preface to the Tables for
correcting the Effects of Refraction and Parallax, published by the Board of Longitude, under
the direction of Dr Shepherd, Flumian Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at
Cambridge, in 1772.--D.]

[Footnote 54: In addition, to Mr Wales's remark, it may be observed, that the proficiency of
our naval officers in taking observations at sea, must ultimately be attributed to the great
attention paid to this important object by the Board of Longitude at home; liberal rewards
having been given to mathematicians for perfecting the lunar tables, and facilitating calculations,
and to artists for constructing more accurate instruments for observing, and watches better
adapted to keeping time at sea. It appears, therefore, that the voyages of discovery, and the
operations of the Board of Longitude, went hand in hand; and they must be combined, in order
to form a just estimate of the extent of the plan carried into execution since his majesty's
accession, for improving astronomy and navigation. But, besides the establishment of the Board
of Longitude on its present footing, which has had such important consequences, it must also
be ever acknowledged, that his present majesty has extended his royal patronage to every branch
of the liberal arts and useful science. The munificent present to the Royal Society for defraying
the expence of observing the transit of Venus; the institution of the Academy of Painting and
Sculpture; the magnificent apartments allotted to the Royal and Antiquarian Societies, and
to the Royal Academy at Somerset-Place; the support of the Garden of Exotics at Kew, to improve
which Mr Masson was sent to the extremities of Africa; the substantial encouragement afforded
to learned men and learned works in various departments, and particularly that afforded to
Mr Herschel, which has enabled him to devote himself entirely to the improvement of astronomy;--these,
and many other instances which might be enumerated, would have greatly distinguished his majesty's
reign, even if he had not been the patron of those successful attempts to perfect geography
and navigation by so many voyages of discovery.--D.

It is scarcely necessary to add to this note by saying, that the period which has elapsed since
the first publication of this voyage, has not witnessed any failure of the promises held out
by the previous state of science, notwithstanding the calamities and embarrassments attendant
on the revolutionary frenzy that, in some degree, infected every country in Europe. Science,
indeed, has peculiarly prospered amid the miseries of the world. In pity of the destructive
work, in which man's bad passions had been engaged with such industrious ferocity, she has
held out in one hand a remedy for the evil, and pointed with the other to the blessings of
peace. Is it unreasonable to hope, that the precious seed sown in such tumultuous times as
we have witnessed, and are now witnessing, will ere long yield a rich harvest to reward the
industry of her labourers? But let, us not limit our expectations and toils to the completion
of mere minutiae, as Dr Douglas speaks. The opinion of plenty, says Lord Bacon, is one of the
causes of want. A more unfavourable symptom of our condition could hardly be found, than a
belief that we had reached perfection. Let us rather think that greater progress may yet be
made in beneficial arts and sciences than ever was made hitherto, and be therefore stimulated
to more ambitious exertions. It will be no glory to the next generation that we have gone so
far, if they themselves are not invited and enabled by our success to get beyond us.--E.]

"The number of places at which the rise and times of flowing of tides have been observed, in
these voyages, is very great, and hence an important article of useful knowledge is afforded.
In these observations, some very curious, and even unexpected, circumstances, have offered
themselves to our consideration. It will be sufficient to instance the exceedingly small height
to which the tide rises in the middle of the great Pacific Ocean, where it falls short, two-thirds
at least, of what might have been expected from theory and calculation.

"The direction and force of currents at sea, make also an important object. These voyages will
be found to contain much useful information on this head, as well relating to seas nearer home,
and which, in consequence, are navigated every day, as to those which are more remote, but
where, notwithstanding, the knowledge of these things may be of great service to those who
are destined to navigate them hereafter. To this head also we may refer the great number of
experiments which have been made for enquiring into the depth of the sea, its temperature,
and saltness at different depths, and in a variety of places and climates.

"An extensive foundation has also been laid for improvements in magnetism, for discovering
the cause and nature of the polarity of the needle, and a theory of its variations, by the
number and variety of the observations and experiments which have been made, both on the variation
and dip, in almost all parts of the world. Experiments also have been made, in consequence
of the late voyages, on the effects of gravity in different and very distant places, which
may serve to increase our stock of natural knowledge. From the same source of information we
have learned, that the phenomenon, usually called the aurora borealis, is not peculiar to high
northern latitudes, but belongs equally to all cold climates, whether they be north or south.

"But, perhaps, no part of knowledge has been so great a gainer by the late voyages as that
of botany. We are told,[55] that at least twelve hundred new plants have been added to the
known system; and that very considerable additions have been made to every other branch of
natural history, by the great skill and industry of Sir Joseph Banks, and the other gentlemen
who have accompanied Captain Cook for that purpose." But while our late voyages have opened
so many channels to an increase of knowledge in the several articles already enumerated; while
they have extended our acquaintance with the contents of the globe; while they have facilitated
old tracks, and opened new ones for commerce; while they have been the means of improving the
skill of the navigator, and the science of the astronomer; while they have procured to us so
valuable accessions in the several departments of natural history, and furnished such opportunities
of teaching us how to preserve the healths and lives of seamen, let us not forget another very
important object of study, for which they have afforded to the speculative philosopher ample
materials; I mean the study of human nature in various situations, equally interesting as they
are uncommon.

However remote or secluded from frequent intercourse with more polished nations the inhabitants
of any parts of the world be, if history or our own observation should make it evident that
they have been formerly visited, and that foreign manners and opinions, and languages, have
been blended with their own, little use can be made of what is observed amongst such people
toward drawing a real picture of man in his natural uncultivated state. This seems to be the
situation of the inhabitants of most of the islands that lie contiguous to the continent of
Asia, and of whose manners and institutions the Europeans, who occasionally visit them, have
frequently given us accounts. But the islands which our enterprising discoverers visited in
the centre of the South Pacific Ocean, and are indeed the principal scenes of their operations,
were untrodden ground. The inhabitants, as far as could be observed, were unmixed with any
different tribe, by occasional intercourse, subsequent to their original settlement there;
left entirely to their own powers for every art of life, and to their own remote traditions
for every political or religions custom or institution; uninformed by science; unimproved by
education; in short, a fit soil from whence a careful observer could collect facts for forming
a judgment, how far unassisted human nature will be apt to degenerate, and in what respects
it can ever be able to excel. Who could have thought, that the brutal ferocity of feeding upon
human flesh, and the horrid superstition of offering human sacrifices, should be found to exist
amongst the natives lately discovered in the Pacific Ocean, who, in other respects, appear
to be no strangers to the fine feelings of humanity, to have arrived at a certain stage of
social life, and to be habituated to subordination and government, which tend so naturally
to repress the ebullitions of wild passion, and expand the latent powers of the understanding?

Or, if we turn from this melancholy picture, which will suggest copious matter for philosophical
speculation, can we, without astonishment, observe to what a degree of perfection the same
tribe (and indeed we may here join, in some of those instances, the American tribes visited
in the course of the present voyage) have carried their favourite amusements, the plaintive
songs of their women, their dramatic entertainments, their dances, their olympian games, as
we may call them, the orations of their chiefs, the chants of their priests, the solemnity
of their religious processions, their arts and manufactures, their ingenious contrivances to
supply the want of proper materials, and of effective tools and machines, and the wonderful
productions of their persevering labour under a complication of disadvantages, their cloth
and their mats, their weapons, their fishing instruments, their ornaments, their utensils,
which in design and in execution may vie with whatever modern Europe or classical antiquity
can exhibit?

It is a favourite study with the scholar to trace the remains of Grecian or Roman workmanship;
he turns over his Montfaucon with learned satisfaction; and he gazes with rapture on the noble
collection of Sir William Hamilton. The amusement is rational and instructive. But will not
his curiosity be more awakened, will he not find even more real matter for important reflection,
by passing an hour in surveying the numerous specimens of the ingenuity of our newly-discovered
friends, brought from the utmost recesses of the globe to enrich the British Museum, and the
valuable repository of Sir Ashton Lever? If the curiosities of Sir Ashton's Sandwich-room alone
were the only acquisition gained by our visits to the Pacific Ocean, who, that has taste to
admire, or even eyes to behold, could hesitate to pronounce that Captain Cook had not sailed
in vain? The expence of his three voyages did not, perhaps, far exceed that of digging out
the buried contents of Herculaneum. And we may add, that the novelties of the Society or Sandwich
Islands seem better calculated to engage the attention of the studious in our times, than the
antiquities which exhibit proofs of Roman magnificence.

The grounds for making this remark cannot be better explained, than in the words of a very
ingenious writer: " In an age," says Mr Warton,[57] "advanced to the highest degree of refinement,
that species of curiosity commences, which is busied in contemplating the progress of social
life, in displaying the gradation of science, and in tracing the transition from barbarism
to civility. That these speculations should become the favourite topics of such a period, is
extremely natural. We look back on the savage condition of our ancestors with the triumph of
superiority; and are pleased to mark the steps by which we have been raised from rudeness to
elegance; and our reflections on this subject are accompanied with a conscious pride, arising,
in a great measure, from a tacit comparison of the infinite disproportion between the feeble
efforts of remote ages, and our present improvements in knowledge. In the mean time, the manners,
monuments, customs, practices, and opinions of antiquity, by forming so strong a contrast with
those of our own times, and by exhibiting human nature and human inventions in new lights,
in unexpected appearances, and in various forms, are objects which forcibly strike a feeling
imagination. Nor does this spectacle afford nothing more than a fruitless gratification to
the fancy. It teaches us to set a just estimation on our own acquisitions, and encourages us
to cherish that cultivation, which is so closely connected with the existence and the exercise
of every social virtue." We need not here observe, that the manners, monuments, customs, practices,
and opinions of the present inhabitants of the Pacific Ocean, or of the west side of North
America, form the strongest contrast with those of our own time in polished Europe; and that
a feeling imagination will probably be more struck with the narration of the ceremonies of
a Natche at Tongataboo, than of a Gothic tournament at London; with the contemplation of the
colossuses of Easter Island, than of the mysterious remains of Stonehenge.[58]

[Footnote 57: Preface to his History of English Poetry.]

[Footnote 58: This may be disputed, both in point of fact, and on principles of reasoning.
As to the first, the fact, let readers in general enquire as to the comparative degree and
frequency of attention bestowed on the different kinds of topics alluded to by the doctor.
What is the conclusion from their observations on the subject? The writer for one, does not
hesitate to assert, that he is convinced, the evidence bears against the opinion of the learned
editor. So far as his notice extends, it appears, that the fooleries of a superstitious age,
the lies of legendary fabulists, the incomprehensible relics of long-forgotten delusions, really
obtain more regard as objects of curiosity, than whatever of ingenuity or labour is to be found
in the history of presently existing savages. Then again as to the reasons for such a preference.
Is there not a sort of fashionable taste for the productions of antiquity, the want of which
is quite unpardonable in our polished and literary circles? Does not the attainment of this
taste, in any meritorious degree, by necessarily requiring much study, operate as preclusive
of information to the possession of which no peculiar epithet of a commendatory nature has
hitherto been awarded? Nay, is there not a sort of prejudice allied to a notion of vulgarity,
directed against almost any shew of acquaintance with the habits and histories of uncultivated
nations? But it would be unpardonable to imagine, there were not other reasons of a less invidious
nature to explain the fact. We must certainly be allowed to pay higher respect to the particular
concerns of those people with whom we stand in the light of offspring or relatives, or whose
transactions and fates have rendered the history of the world what it is, almost superlatively
important to every intelligent mind. If time shall witness the triumph of civilization over
the savages of the southern hemisphere, then, it is highly probable, a similar enthusiasm will
prevail among their literary descendants; and objects regarded by us as mere dust in the high
road of nature, will be enshrined with all the partiality and fondness of national idolatry.--E.]

Many singularities, respecting what may be called the natural history of the human species,
in different climates, will, on the authority of our late navigators, open abundant sources
for philosophical discussion. One question of this sort, in particular, which had formerly
divided the opinions of the inquisitive, as to the existence, if not of "giants on the earth,"
at least of a race, (inhabiting a district bordering on the north side of the strait of Magalhaens,)
whose stature considerably exceeds that of the bulk of mankind, will no longer be doubted or
disbelieved. And the ingenious objections of the sceptical author of Recherches sur les Americains,[59]
will weigh nothing in the balance against the concurrent and accurate testimony of Byron, Wallis,
and Carteret.

[Footnote 59: Tom. i. p. 331.]

Perhaps there cannot be a more interesting enquiry than to trace the migrations of the various
families or tribes that have peopled the globe; and in no respect have our late voyages been
more fertile in curious discoveries. It was known in general, (and I shall use the words of
Kaempfer,[60]) that the Asiatic nation called Malayans "in former times, had by much the greatest
trade in the Indies, and frequented with their merchant ships, not only all the coasts of Asia,
but ventured even over to the coasts of Africa, particularly to the great island of Madagascar.[61]
The title which the king of the Malayans assumed to himself, of Lord of the Winds and Seas
to the East and to the West, is an evident proof of this; but much more the Malayan language,
which spread most all over the East, much after the same manner as formerly the Latin, and
of late the French, did all over Europe." Thus far, I say, was known. But that from Madagascar
to the Marqueses and Easter Island, that is, nearly from the east side of Africa, till we approach
toward the west side of America, a space including above half the circumference of the globe,
the same tribe or nation, the Phoenicians, as we may call them, of the oriental world, should
have made their settlements, and founded colonies throughout almost every intermediate stage
of this immense tract, in islands at amazing distances from the mother continent, and ignorant
of each other's existence; this is an historical fact, which could be but very imperfectly
known before Captain Cook's two first voyages discovered so many new-inhabited spots of land
lurking in the bosom of the South Pacific Ocean; and it is a fact which does not rest solely
on similarity of customs and institutions, but has been established by the most satisfactory
of all proofs, that drawn from affinity of language. Mr Marsden, who seems to have considered
this curious subject with much attention, says, "that the links of the latitudinal chain remain
yet to be traced."[40] The discovery of the Sandwich Islands in this last voyage, has added
some links to the chain. But Captain Cook had not an opportunity of carrying his researches
into the more westerly parts of the North Pacific. The reader, therefore, of the following
work will not, perhaps, think that the editor was idly employed when he subjoined some notes,
which contain abundant proof that the inhabitants of the Ladrones, or Marianne islands, and
those of the Carolines, are to be traced to the same common source, with those of the islands
visited by our ships. With the like view of exhibiting a striking picture of the amazing extent
of this oriental language, which marks, if not a common original, at least an intimate intercourse
between the inhabitants of places so very remote from each other, he has inserted a comparative
table of their numerals, upon a more enlarged plan than any that has hitherto been executed.

[Footnote 60: History of Japan, vol. i. p. 93.]

[Footnote 61: That the Malayans have not only frequented Madagascar, but have also been the
progenitors of some of the present race of inhabitants there, is confirmed to us by the testimony
of Monsieur de Pagès, who visited that island so late as 1774. "Ils m'ont paru provenir des
diverses races; leur couleur leur cheveux, et leur corps l'indiquent. Ceux que je n'ai pas
cru originaires des anciens naturels du pays, sont petits et trapus; ils ont les cheveux presque
unis, et sont olivátres comme les Malayes, avec qui ils ont, en général, une espece de resemblance."--Voyages
des M. des Pagès, tom. ii. p. 90.--D.]

[Footnote 40: Archaeolog. vol. vi. p. 155. See also his History of Sumatra, p. 166, from which
the following passage is transcribed:-- "Besides the Malaye, there are a variety of languages
spoken in Sumatra, which, however, have not only a manifest affinity among themselves, but
also to that general language which is found to prevail in, and to be indigenous to, all the
islands of the eastern seas; from Madagascar to the remotest of Captain Cook's discoveries,
comprehending a wider extent than the Roman or any other tongue has yet boasted. In different
places, it has been more or less mixed and corrupted; but between the most dissimilar branches,
an eminent sameness of many radical words is apparent; and in some very distant from each other,
in point of situation: As, for instance, the Philippines and Madagascar, the deviation of the
words is scarcely more than is observed in the dialects of neighbouring provinces of the same
kingdom."--D.]

Our British discoverers have not only thrown a blaze of light on the migrations of the tribe
which has so wonderfully spread itself throughout the islands in the eastern ocean, but they
have also favoured us with much curious information concerning another of the families of the
earth, whose lot has fallen in less hospitable climates. We speak of the Esquimaux, hitherto
only found seated on the coasts of Labradore and Hudson's Bay, and who differ in several characteristic
marks from the inland inhabitants of North America. That the Greenlanders and they agree in
every circumstance of customs, and manners, and language, which are demonstrations of an original
identity of nation, had been discovered about twenty years ago.[62] Mr Hearne, in 1771, traced
this unhappy race farther back, toward that part of the globe from whence they had originally
coasted along in their skin boats, having met with some of them at the mouth of the Copper-mine
River, in the latitude of 72°, and near five hundred leagues farther west than Pickersgill's
most westerly station in Davis's Strait. Their being the same tribe who now actually inhabit
the islands and coasts on the west side of North America, opposite Kamtschatka, was a discovery,
the completion of which was reserved for Captain Cook. The reader of the following work will
find them at Norton Sound, and at Oonalashka and Prince William's Sound; that is, near 1500
leagues distant from their stations in Greenland and on the Labradore coast. And lest similitude
of manners should be thought to deceive us, a table exhibiting proofs of affinity of language,
which was drawn up by Captain Cook, and is inserted in this work, will remove every doubt from
the mind of the most scrupulous enquirer after truth.[63]

[Footnote 62: See Crantz's History of Greenland, vol. i. p. 262; where we are told that the
Moravian brethren, who, with the consent and furtherance of Sir Hugh Palliser, then governor
of Newfoundland, visited the Esquimaux on the Labradore coast, found that their language, and
that of the Greenlanders, do not differ so much as that of the High and Low Dutch.--D.]

[Footnote 63: The Greenlanders, as Crantz tells us, call themselves Karalit; a word not very
unlike Kanagyst, the name assumed by the inhabitants of Kodiack, one of the Schumagin islands,
as Staehlin informs us.--D.]

There are other doubts of a more important kind, which, it may be hoped, will now no longer
perplex the ignorant, or furnish matter of cavil to the ill-intentioned. After the great discovery,
or at least the full confirmation of the great discovery, of the vicinity of the two continents
of Asia and America, we trust that we shall not, for the future, be ridiculed, for believing
that the former could easily furnish its inhabitants to the latter. And thus, to all the various
good purposes already enumerated, as answered by our late voyages, we may add this last, though
not the least important, that they have done service to religion, by robbing infidelity of
a favourite objection to the credibility of the Mosaic account of the peopling of the earth.[64]

[Footnote 64: A contempt of revelation is generally the result of ignorance, conceited of its
possessing superior knowledge. Observe how the author of Recherches Philosophiques sur les
Americains, expresses himself on this very point. "Cette distance que Mr Antermony veut trouver
si peu impotante, est à-peu-près de huit cent lieus Gauleises au travers d'un ocean perilleux,
et impossible à franchir avec des canots aussi chetifs et aussi fragiles que le sont, au rapport
d'Ysbrand Ides, les chaloupes des Tunguses," &c. &c. t. i. p. 156. Had this writer known that
the two continents are not above thirteen leagues (instead of eight hundred) distant from each
other, and that, even in that narrow space of sea, there are intervening islands, he would
not have ventured to urge this argument in opposition to Mr Bell's notion of the quarter from
which North America received its original inhabitants.--D.

No intelligent reader needs to be informed, that a much closer approach of the two continents
of Asia and America than is here alleged to exist, would be inadequate to account for the peopling
of the latter, throughout its immense extent and very important diversities of appearance.
The opinion is more plausible, and gains ground in the world, that much of South America derived
its original inhabitants from the opposite coast of Africa. It is enough to state this opinion,
without occupying a moment's attention, in discussing the arguments which can be adduced in
its support. The truth of Revelation, it may be remarked, is quite unaffected by the controversy,
and, in fact, can receive neither injury nor advantage from any decision that is given to it.
The real friends of that cause attach little importance to any weight of human argument in
its favour, and rest entirely on divine evidence, for both the painful and the comfortable
effects it produces on their consciences. Any other, they are sure, may indeed furnish matter
for the display of ingenuity and learning, but will fall short of that conviction which secures
self-denied obedience to its precepts.--E.]

6. Hitherto we have considered our voyages as having benefited the discoverers. But it will
be asked, Have they conveyed, or are they likely ever to convey, any benefit to the discovered?
It would afford exquisite satisfaction to every benevolent mind, to be instructed in facts,
which might enable us, without hesitation, to answer this question in the affirmative. And
yet, perhaps, we may indulge the pleasing hope, that, even in this respect, our ships have
not sailed in vain. Other discoveries of new countries have, in effect, been wars, or rather
massacres; nations have been no sooner found out, than they have been extirpated; and the horrid
cruelties of the conquerors of Mexico and Peru can never be remembered, without blushing for
religion and human nature. But when the recesses of the globe are investigated, not to enlarge
private dominion, but to promote general knowledge; when we visit new tribes of our fellow-creatures
as friends; and wish only to learn that they exist, in order to bring them within the pale
of the offices of humanity, and to relieve the wants of their imperfect state of society, by
communicating to them our superior attainments; voyages of discovery planned with such benevolent
views by George the Third, and executed by Cook, have not, we trust, totally failed in this
respect. Our repeated visits, and long-continued intercourse with the natives of the Friendly,
Society, and Sandwich Islands, cannot but have darted some rays of light on the infant minds
of those poor people. The uncommon objects they have thus had opportunities of observing and
admiring, will naturally tend to enlarge their stock of ideas, and to furnish new materials
for the exercise of their reason. Comparing themselves with their visitors, they cannot but
be struck with the deepest conviction of their own inferiority, and be impelled, by the strongest
motives, to strive to emerge from it, and to rise nearer to a level with those children of
the Sun, who deigned to look upon them, and left behind so many specimens of their generous
and humane attention. The very introduction of our useful animals and vegetables, by adding
fresh means of subsistence, will have added to their comforts of life, and immediate enjoyments;
and if this be the only benefit they are ever to receive, who will pronounce that much has
not been gained? But may we not carry our wishes and our hopes still farther? Great Britain
itself, when, first visited by the Phoenicians, was inhabited by painted savages, not, perhaps,
blessed with higher attainments than are possessed by the present natives of New Zealand; certainly
less civilized than those of Tongataboo or Otaheite. Our having opened an intercourse with
them, is the first step toward their improvement. Who knows, but that our late voyages may
be the means appointed by Providence, of spreading, in due time, the blessings of civilization
amongst the numerous tribes of the South Pacific Ocean; of abolishing their horrid repasts
and their horrid rites; and of laying the foundation for future and more effectual plans, to
prepare them for holding an honourable station amongst the nations of the earth? This, at least,
is certain, that our having, as it were, brought them into existence by our extensive researches,
will suggest to us fresh motives of devout gratitude to the Supreme Being, for having blessed
us with advantages hitherto withheld from so great a proportion of the human race; and will
operate powerfully to incite us to persevere in every feasible attempt, to be his instruments
in rescuing millions of fellow-creatures from their present state of humiliation.[65]

[Footnote 65: It is painful to a liberal mind to question the basis of any hope, or to doubt
the validity of any expectations, in behalf of our species. One would rather foster a mistaken
benevolence, which, scorning selfish interests, embraced the future welfare of distant and
unknown people, were it not that the indulgence of them might tend to prevent the very object
which they regard from being attained. Does not the well-meaning editor anticipate too much
from the diffusion of foreign knowledge among the tribes of whom he speaks? Is he not somewhat
inattentive to the mass of inseparable evil which every such accession brings along with it?
Does he not seem to confound together the acquisition of knowledge, and the ability to do what
is requisite for human happiness? May we not perceive by the very items of his calculation,
that he has neglected to consider that nice adjustment of the faculty and the means of enjoyment,
which evinces the general care and universal affection of Providence? The consequence of such
neglect or mistake, would be an injudicious and hasty effort to induce what we call civilization,
on the too much commiserated objects of our philanthropy. Without disputing for a moment, that
the intercourse with Europeans has proved beneficial to these people, though, as every intelligent
reader knows well, a thousand arguments would be thrown away on an attempt to shew there was
no occasion to do so, we may fairly enough affirm, that such zealous exertions as are here
virtually recommended, are liable to the charge of being premature, and not altogether according
to knowledge. We are too apt to imagine that barbarous people are easily made to believe their
institutions and manners are erroneous, or impolitic; and that they will accordingly readily
listen to the suggestions of those who, they acknowledge, are in many respects superior to
themselves. But, in fact, the very reverse is the case, and it will ever be found that the
simplest states of society are least sensible of inconveniences, and therefore most averse
to innovation. Besides, it ought to be remembered, that, independent of any adventitious assistance,
there is implanted in every such society, how contemptible soever it may seem to others, a
certain principle of amelioration, which never fails, in due time, to yield its fruit, and
which, there is some reason to apprehend, may receive detriment from obtrusive solicitude to
hasten its product. Every boy has within him the seeds of manhood, which, at the period appointed
by nature, germinate, blossom, and fructify; but anxiety to accelerate the process too often
ruins the soil on which they grow, and mars the hopes of the cultivator, by unseasonable maturity
and rapid decay. So is it with societies. The progress of human affairs on the large scale,
is precisely similar to what we daily witness on the small. It has been described, with equal
beauty and correctness, by the judicious Ferguson, in his Essays on the History of Civil Society.
"What was in one generation," says he, "a propensity to herd with the species, becomes, in
the ages which follow, a principle of natural union. What was originally an alliance for common
defence, becomes a concerted plan of political force; the care of subsistence becomes an anxiety
for accumulating wealth, and the foundation of commercial arts."--Who can say that the officiousness
of friendship is not likely to disorder the series, and, though it escape the charge and the
fate of presumption, is not deserving to be considered as unnecessary enthusiasm?--E.]

The several topics which occurred, as suitable to this general Introduction, being now discussed,
nothing remains but to state a few particulars, about which the reader of these volumes has
a right to expect some information.

Captain Cook, knowing, before he sailed upon this last expedition, that it was expected from
him to relate, as well as to execute, its operations, had taken care to prepare such a journal
as might be made use of for publication. This journal, which exists in his own hand-writing,
has been faithfully adhered to. It is not a bare extract from his logbooks, but contains many
remarks which, it appears, had not been inserted by him in the nautical register; and it is
also enriched with considerable communications from Mr Anderson, surgeon of the Resolution.
The confessed abilities, and great assiduity, of Mr Anderson, in observing every thing that
related either to natural history, or to manners and language, and the desire which, it is
well known, Captain Cook, on all occasions, shewed to have the assistance of that gentleman,
stamped a great value on his collections. That nothing, therefore, might be wanting to convey
to the public the best possible account of the transactions of the voyage, his journal, by
the order of Lord Sandwich, was also put into the hands of the editor, who was authorised and
directed to avail himself of the information it might be found to contain, about matters imperfectly
touched, or altogether omitted, in Captain Cook's manuscript. This task has been executed in
such a manner, that the reader will scarcely ever be at a loss to distinguish in what instances
recourse has been had to Mr Anderson. To preclude, if possible, any mistake, the copy of the
first and second volumes, before it went to the printer, was submitted to Captain King; and
after it had been read over and corrected by one so well qualified to point out any inaccuracies,
the Earl of Sandwich had the goodness to give it a perusal. As to the third volume, nothing
more need be said, than that it was completely prepared for the press by Captain King himself.
All that the editor of the work has to answer for, are the notes occasionally introduced in
the course of the two volumes contributed by Captain Cook; and this Introduction, which was
intended as a kind of epilogue to our Voyages of Discovery. He must be permitted, however,
to say, that he considers himself as entitled to no inconsiderable share of candid indulgence
from the public; having engaged in a very tedious and troublesome undertaking upon the most
disinterested motives; his only reward being the satisfaction he feels, in having been able
to do an essential service to the family of our great navigator, who had honoured him, in the
journal of this voyage, with the appellation of friend.

They who repeatedly asked why this publication was so long delayed, needed only to look at
the volumes, and their attendant illustrations and ornaments, to be satisfied that it might,
with at least equal reason, be wondered at, that it was not delayed longer. The journal of
Captain Cook, from the first moment that it came into the hands of the editor, had been ready
for the press; and Captain King had left with him his part of the narrative, so long ago as
his departure for the West Indies, when he commanded the Resistance man-of-war. But much, besides,
remained to be done. The charts, particularly the general one, were to be prepared by Mr Roberts;
the very numerous and elegant drawings of Mr Webber were to be reduced by him to the proper
size; artists were next to be found out who would undertake to engrave them; the prior engagements
of those artists were to be fulfilled before they could begin; the labour and skill to be exerted
in finishing many of them, rendered this a tedious operation; paper fit for printing them upon
was to be procured from abroad; and after all these various and unavoidable difficulties were
surmounted, much time was necessarily required for executing a numerous impression of the long
list of plates, with so much care as might do justice both to Mr Webber, and to his several
engravers.

And here it seems to be incumbent upon us to add, as another instance of munificent attention,
that care was taken to mark, in the most significant manner, the just sense entertained of
the human and liberal relief afforded to our ships in Kamtachatka. Colonel Behm, the commandant
of that province, was not rewarded merely by the pleasure which a benevolent mind feels in
reflecting upon the blessings it confers, but also thanked in a manner equally consistent with
the dignity of his own sovereign and of ours, to whose subjects he extended protection. A magnificent
piece of plate was presented to him, with an inscription, worthy of a place in the same book
where the history of his humanity to our countrymen is recorded, and which, while it does honour
to our national gratitude, deserves also to be preserved as a monument of our national taste
for elegant composition. It is as follows:

     VIRO EGREGIO MAGNO DE BEHM; qui, Imperatricis Augustissimae
     Catherinae auspiciis, summâque animi benignitate, saeva, quibus
     praeerat, Kamtschatkae littora, navibus nautisque Britannicis,
     hospita praebuit; eosque, in terminis, si qui essent Imperio
     Russico, frustrà explorandis, mula multa perpessos, iteratâ vice
     excepit, refecit, recreavit, et commeatu omni cumulatè auctos
     dimisit; REI NAVALIS BRITANNICAE SEPTEMVIRI in aliquam
     benevolentiae tam insignis memoriam, amicissimo, gratissimoque
     animo, suo, patriaeque nomine, D.D.D. MDCCLXXXI.

This testimony of public gratitude, reminds the editor that there are similar calls upon himself.
He owes much to Captain King for his advice and direction, in a variety of instances, where
Captain Cook's journal required explanation; for filling up several blanks with the proper
longitude and latitude; and for supplying deficiencies in the tables of astronomical observations.

Lieutenant Roberts was also frequently consulted, and was always found to be a ready and effectual
assistant, when any nautical difficulties were to be cleared up.

But particular obligations are due to Mr Wales, who, besides his valuable communications for
this Introduction, seconded most liberally the editor's views of serving Mrs Cook, by cheerfully
taking upon himself the whole trouble of digesting, from the log-books, the tables of the route
of the ships, which add so greatly to the utility of this publication.

Mr Wegg, besides sharing in the thanks so justly due to the committee of the Hudson's Bay Company,
for their unreserved communications, was particularly obliging to the editor, by giving him
repeated opportunities of conversing with Governor Hearne and Captain Christopher.

The Honourable Mr Daines Barrington had the goodness to interest himself, with his usual zeal
for every work of public utility, in procuring some necessary information, and suggesting some
valuable hints, which were adopted.

It would be great injustice not to express acknowledgements to Mr Pennant, who, besides enriching
the third volume with references to his Arctic Zoology, the publication of which is an important
accession to natural history, also communicated some very authentic and satisfactory manuscript
accounts of the Russian discoveries.

The vocabularies of the Friendly and Sandwich Islands, and of the natives of Nootka, had been
furnished to Captain Cook, by his most useful associate in the voyage, Mr Anderson; and a fourth,
in which the language of the Esquimaux is compared with that of the Americans on the opposite
side of the continent, had been prepared by the captain himself. But the comparative Table
of Numerals was very obligingly drawn up, at the request of the editor, by Mr Bryant, who,
in his study, followed Captain Cook, and, indeed, every traveller and historian, of every age,
into every part of the globe. The public will consider this table as a very striking illustration
of the wonderful migrations of a nation, about whom so much additional information has been
gained by our voyages, and be ready to acknowledge it as a very useful communication.

One more communication remains to be not only acknowledged, but to be inserted at the close
of this Introduction. The testimonies of learned contemporaries, in commendation of a deceased
author, are frequently displayed in the front of his book. It is with the greatest propriety,
therefore, that we prefix to this posthumous work of Captain Cook, the testimony of one of
his own profession, not more distinguished by the elevation of rank, than by the dignity of
private virtues. As he wishes to remain concealed, perhaps this allusion, for which we entreat
his indulgence, may have given too exact direction to the eyes of the public where to look
for such a character.[66] Let us, however, rest satisfied with the intrinsic merit of a composition,
conveyed under the injunction of secrecy; and conclude our long preliminary dissertation with
expressing a wish, or rather a well-grounded hope, that this volume may not be the only place
where posterity can meet with a monumental inscription, commemorative of a man, in recounting
and applauding whose services, the whole of enlightened Europe will equally concur with Great
Britain.

[Footnote 66: This is understood to be spoken of the Honourable Admiral Forbes, Admiral of
the Fleet, and General of the Marines, to whom, on the authority of Sir Hugh Palliser, the
eulogium is ascribed in the Biog. Brit. He is said to have known Cook only by his eminent merit
and extraordinary actions. The testimony, therefore, is the more to be prized, as it cannot
be charged with the partiality of friendship.--E.]

TO THE MEMORY OF

CAPTAIN JAMES COOK,

The ablest and most renowned Navigator this or any other country hath produced.

He raised himself, solely by his merit, from a very obscure birth, to the rank of Post Captain
in the royal navy, and was, unfortunately, killed by the savages of the island Owhyhee, on
the 14th of February, 1779; which island he had, not long before, discovered, when prosecuting
his third voyage round the globe.

He possessed, in an eminent degree, all the qualifications requisite for his profession and
great undertakings; together with the amiable and worthy qualities of the best men.

Cool and deliberate in judging; sagacious in determining; active in executing; steady and persevering
in enterprising vigilance and unremitting caution; unsubdued by labour, difficulties, and disappointments;
fertile in expedients; never wanting presence of mind; always possessing himself, and the full
use of a sound understanding.

Mild, just, but exact in discipline: He was a father to his people, who were attached to him
from affection, and obedient from confidence.

His knowledge, his experience, his sagacity, rendered him so entirely master of his subject,
that the greatest obstacles were surmounted, and the most dangerous navigations became easy,
and almost safe, under his direction.

He explored the southern hemisphere to a much higher latitude than had ever been reached, and
with fewer accidents than frequently befal those who navigate the coasts of this island.

By his benevolent and unabating attention to the welfare of his ship's company, he discovered
and introduced a system for the preservation of the health of seamen in long voyages, which
has proved wonderfully efficacious; for in his second voyage round the world, which continued
upwards of three years, he lost only one man by distemper, of one hundred and eighteen, of
which his company consisted.

The death of this eminent and valuable man was a loss to mankind in general; and particularly
to be deplored by every nation that respects useful accomplishments, that honours science,
and loves the benevolent and amiable affections of the heart. It is still more to be deplored
by this country, which may justly boast of having produced a man hitherto unequalled for nautical
talents; and that sorrow is farther aggravated by the reflection, that his country was deprived
of this ornament by the enmity of a people, from whom, indeed, it might have been dreaded,
but from whom it was not deserved. For, actuated always by the most attentive care and tender
compassion for the savages in general, this excellent man was ever assiduously endeavouring,
by kind treatment, to dissipate their fears, and court their friendship; overlooking their
thefts and treacheries, and frequently interposing, at the hazard of his life, to protect them
from the sudden resentment of his own injured people.

The object of his last mission was to discover and ascertain the boundaries of Asia and America,
and to penetrate into the northern ocean by the north-east Cape of Asia.

Traveller! contemplate, admire, revere, and emulate this great master in his profession; whose
skill and labours have enlarged natural philosophy; have extended nautical science; and have
disclosed the long-concealed and admirable arrangements of the Almighty in the formation of
this globe, and, at the same time, the arrogance of mortals, in presuming to account, by their
speculations, for the laws by which he was pleased to create it. It is now discovered, beyond
all doubt, that the same Great Being who created the universe by his fiat, by the same ordained
our earth to keep a just poise, without a corresponding southern continent--and it does so!
"He stretches out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing."--Job,
xxvi. 7.

If the arduous but exact researches of this extraordinary man have not discovered a new world,
they have discovered seas unnavigated and unknown before. They have made us acquainted with
islands, people and productions, of which we had no conception. And if he has not been so fortunate
as Americus to give his name to a continent, his pretensions to such a distinction remain unrivalled;
and he will be revered, while there remains a page of his own modest account of his voyages,
and as long as mariners and geographers shall be instructed, by his new map of the southern
hemisphere, to trace the various courses and discoveries he has made.

If public services merit public acknowledgments; if the man who adorned and raised the fame
of his country is deserving of honours, then Captain Cook deserves to have a monument raised
to his memory, by a generous and grateful nation.

   Virtutis uberrimum alimentum est honos.
                            VAL. MAXIMUS, lib. ii. cap. 6.

COOK'S VOYAGE TO THE PACIFIC OCEAN.

CHAPTER I.

TRANSACTIONS FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE VOYAGE TILL OUR DEPARTURE FROM NEW ZEALAND.

Having, on the 9th day of February, 1776, received a commission to command his majesty's sloop
the Resolution, I went on board the next day, hoisted the pendant, and began to enter men.
At the same time, the Discovery, of three hundred tons burthen, was purchased into the service,
and the command of her given to Captain Clerke, who had been my second lieutenant on board
the Resolution, in my second voyage round the world, from which we had lately returned.

These two ships were, at this time, in the dock at Deptford, under the hands of the shipwrights;
being ordered to be equipped to make farther discoveries in the Pacific Ocean, under my direction.

On the 9th of March, the Resolution was hauled out of dock into the river; where we completed
her rigging, and took on board the stores and provisions requisite for a voyage of such duration.
Both ships, indeed, were supplied with as much of every necessary article as we could conveniently
stow, and with the best of every kind that could be procured. And, besides this, every thing
that had been found, by the experience acquired during our former extensive voyages, to be
of any utility in preserving the health of seamen, was supplied in abundance.

It was our intention to have sailed to Long Reach on the 6th of May, when a pilot came on board
to carry us thither; but it was the 29th before the wind would permit us to move, and the 30th
before we arrived at that station, where our artillery, powder, shot, and other ordnance stores
were received.

While we lay in Long Reach, thus employed, the Earl of Sandwich, Sir Hugh Palliser, and others
of the Board of Admiralty, as the last mark of the very great attention they had all along
shewn to this equipment, paid us a visit on the 8th of June, to examine whether every thing
had been completed conformably to their intentions and orders, and to the satisfaction of all
who were to embark in the voyage. They, and several other noblemen and gentlemen their friends,
honoured me with their company at dinner on that day; and, on their coming on board, and also
on their going ashore, we saluted them with seventeen guns, and three cheers.

With the benevolent view of conveying some permanent benefit to the inhabitants of Otaheite,
and of the other islands in the Pacific Ocean, whom we might happen to visit, his majesty having
commanded some useful animals to be carried out, we took on board, on the 10th, a bull, two
cows with their calves, and some sheep, with hay and corn for their subsistence; intending
to add to these other useful animals, when I should arrive at the Cape of Good Hope.

I was also, from the same laudable motives, furnished with a sufficient quantity of such of
our European garden-seeds, as could not fail to be a valuable present to our newly discovered
islands, by adding fresh supplies of food to their own vegetable productions.

Many other articles, calculated to improve the condition of our friends in the other hemisphere
in various ways, were, at the same time, delivered to us by order of the Board of Admiralty.
And both ships were provided with a proper assortment of iron tools and trinkets, as the means
of enabling us to traffic, and to cultivate a friendly intercourse with the inhabitants of
such new countries as we might be fortunate enough to meet with.

The same humane attention was extended to our own wants. Some additional clothing, adapted
to a cold climate, was ordered for our crews; and nothing was denied to us that could be supposed
in the least conducive to health, or even to convenience.

Nor did the extraordinary care of those at the head of the naval department stop here. They
were equally solicitous to afford us every assistance towards rendering our voyage of public
utility. Accordingly, we received on board, next day, several astronomical and nautical instruments,
which the Board of Longitude entrusted to me, and to Mr King, my second lieutenant; we having
engaged to that board to make all the necessary observations, during the voyage, for the improvement
of astronomy and navigation; and, by our joint labours, to supply the place of a professed
observator. Such a person had been originally intended to be sent out in my ship.

The board, likewise, put into our possession the same watch, or time-keeper, which I had carried
out in my last voyage, and had performed its part so well. It was a copy of Mr Harrison's,
constructed by Mr Kendall. This day, at noon, it was found to be too slow for mean time at
Greenwich, by 3' 31" 89; and by its rate of going, it lost, on mean time, 1", 209 per day.

Another time-keeper, and the same number and sort of instruments for making observations, were
put on board the Discovery, under the care of Mr William Bayly; who, having already given satisfactory
proofs of his skill and diligence as an observator, while employed in Captain Furneaux's ship,
during the late voyage, was engaged a second time, in that capacity, to embark with Captain Clerke.

Mr Anderson, my surgeon, who, to skill in his immediate profession, added great proficiency
in natural history, was as willing as he was well qualified, to describe every thing in that
branch of science which should occur worthy of notice. As he had already visited the South
Sea islands in the same ship, and been of singular service, by enabling me to enrich my relation
of that voyage with various useful remarks on men and things,[67] I reasonably expected to
derive considerable assistance from him, in recording our new proceedings.

[Footnote 67: The very copious vocabulary of the language of Otaheite, and the comparative
specimen of the languages of the several other islands visited during the former voyage, and
published in Captain Cook's account of it, were furnished by Mr Anderson.--D.]

I had several young men amongst my sea-officers, who, under my direction, could be usefully
employed in constructing charts, in taking views of the coasts and headlands near which we
should pass, and in drawing plans of the bays and harbours in which we should anchor. A constant
attention to this I knew to be highly requisite, if we would render our discoveries profitable
to future navigators.

And that we might go out with every help that could serve to make the result of our voyage
entertaining to the generality of readers, as well as instructive to the sailor and scholar,
Mr Webber was pitched upon, and engaged to embark with me, for the express purpose of supplying
the unavoidable imperfections of written accounts, by enabling us to preserve, and to bring
home, such drawings of the most memorable scenes of our transactions, as could only be executed
by a professed and skilful artist.

Every preparation being now completed, I received an order to proceed to Plymouth, and to take
the Discovery under my command. I accordingly gave Captain Clerke two orders, one to put himself
under my command, and the other, to carry his ship round to Plymouth.

On the 15th the Resolution sailed from Long Reach, with the Discovery in company, and the same
evening they anchored at the Nore. Next day the Discovery proceeded, in obedience to my order;
but the Resolution was ordered to remain at the Nore till I should join her, being at this
time in London.

As we were to touch at Otaheite and the Society Islands in our way to the intended scene of
our fresh operations, it had been determined not to omit this opportunity (the only one ever
likely to happen) of carrying Omai back to his native country. Accordingly, every thing being
ready for our departure, he and I set out together from London on the 24th, at six o'clock
in the morning. We reached Chatham, between ten and eleven o'clock; and, after dining with
Commissioner Proby, he very obligingly ordered his yacht to carry us to Sheerness, where my
boat was waiting to take us on board.

Omai left London with a mixture of regret and satisfaction. When we talked about England, and
about those who, during his stay, had honoured him with their protection or friendship, I could
observe that his spirits were sensibly affected, and that it was with difficulty he could refrain
from tears. But the instant the conversation turned to his own islands, his eyes began to sparkle
with joy. He was deeply impressed with a sense of the good treatment he had met with in England,
and entertained the highest ideas of the country and of the people; but the pleasing prospect
he now had before him of returning home, loaded with what he well knew would be esteemed invaluable
treasures there, and the flattering hope which the possession of these gave him, of attaining
to a distinguished superiority amongst his countrymen, were considerations which operated,
by degrees, to suppress every uneasy sensation; and he seemed to be quite happy when he got
on board the ship.

He was furnished by his majesty with an ample provision of every article which, during our
intercourse with his country, we had observed to be in any estimation there, either as useful
or as ornamental. He had, besides, received many presents of the same nature from Lord Sandwich,
Sir Joseph Banks, and several other gentlemen and ladies of his acquaintance. In short, every
method had been employed, both during his abode in England, and at his departure, to make him
the instrument of conveying to the inhabitants of the islands of the Pacific Ocean, the most
exalted opinion of the greatness and generosity of the British nation.

While the Resolution lay at the Nore, Mr King made several observations for finding the longitude
by the watch. The mean of them all gave 0° 44' 0" for the longitude of the ship. This, reduced
to Sheerness, by the bearing and estimated distance, will make that place to be 0° 37' 0" E.
of Greenwich, which is more by seven miles than Mr Lyons made it by the watch which Lord Mulgrave
had with him, on his voyage toward the North Pole. Whoever knows any thing of the distance
between Sheerness and Greenwich, will be a judge which of these two observations is nearest
the truth.

The variation of the needle here, by a mean of different sets, taken with different compasses,
was 20° 37' W.

On the 25th, about noon, we weighed anchor, and made sail for the Downs through the Queen's
Channel, with a gentle breeze at N.W. by W. At nine in the evening we anchored, with the North
Foreland bearing S. by E. and Margate Point S.W. by S.

Next morning, at two o'clock, we weighed and stood round the Foreland; and when it bore north
by the compass, the watch gave 1° 24' E. longitude, which, reduced to the Foreland, will be
1° 21' E. Lunar observations made the preceding evening, fixed it at 1° 20' E. At eight o'clock
the same morning we anchored in the Downs. Two boats had been built for us at Deal, and I immediately
sent on shore for them. I was told that many people had assembled there to see Omai, but, to
their great disappointment, he did not land.

Having received the boats on board, and a light breeze at S.S.E. springing up, we got under
sail the next day at two o'clock in the afternoon; but the breeze soon died away, and we were
obliged to anchor again till ten o'clock at night. We then weighed with the wind at E. and
proceeded down the Channel.

On the 30th, at three o'clock in the afternoon, we anchored in Plymouth Sound, where the Discovery
had arrived only three days before. I saluted Admiral Amherst, whose flag was flying on board
the Ocean, with thirteen guns, and he returned the compliment with eleven.

It was the first object of our care on arriving at Plymouth, to replace the water and provisions
that we had expended, and to receive on board a supply of port wine. This was the employment
which occupied us on the 1st and 2d of July.

During our stay here, the crews were served with fresh beef every day. And I should not do
justice to Mr Ommanney, the agent victualler, if I did not take this opportunity to mention,
that he shewed a very obliging readiness to furnish me with the best of every thing that lay
within his department. I had been under the like obligations to him on my setting out upon
my last voyage. Commissioner Ourry, with equal zeal for the service, gave us every assistance
that we wanted from the naval yard.

It could not but occur to us as a singular and affecting circumstance, that at the very instant
of our departure upon a voyage, the object of which was to benefit Europe by making fresh discoveries
in North America, there should be the unhappy necessity of employing others of his majesty's
ships, and of conveying numerous bodies of land forces to secure the obedience of those parts
of that continent which had been discovered and settled by our countrymen in the last century.
On the 6th his majesty's ships Diamond, Ambuscade, and Unicorn, with a fleet of transports,
consisting of sixty-two sail, bound to America, with the last division of the Hessian troops,
and some horse, were forced into the Sound by a strong N.W. wind.

On the 8th I received, by express, my instructions for the voyage, and an order to proceed
to the Cape of Good Hope with the Resolution. I was also directed to leave an order for Captain
Clerke to follow us as soon as he should join his ship, he being at this time detained in London.

Our first discoverers of the New World, and navigators of the Indian and Pacific Oceans, were
justly thought to have exerted such uncommon abilities, and to have accomplished such perilous
enterprises, that their names have been handed down to posterity as so many Argonauts. Nay,
even the hulks of the ships that carried them, though not converted into constellations in
the heavens, used to be honoured and visited as sacred relics upon earth. We, in the present
age of improved navigation, who have been instructed by their labours, and have followed them
as our guides, have no such claim to fame. Some merit, however, being still, in the public
opinion, considered as due to those who sail to unexplored quarters of the globe; in conformity
to this favourable judgment, I prefixed to the account of my last voyage the names of the officers
of both my ships, and a table of the number of their respective crews. The like information
will be expected from me at present.

The Resolution was fitted out with the same complement of officers and men as she had before;
and the Discovery's establishment varied from that of the Adventure, in the single instance
of her having no marine officer on board. This arrangement was to be finally completed at Plymouth;
and on the 9th we received the party of marines allotted for our voyage. Colonel Bell, who
commanded the division at this port, gave me such men for the detachment as I had reason to
be satisfied with. And the supernumerary seamen, occasioned by this reinforcement, being turned
over into the Ocean man-of-war, our several complements remained fixed, as represented in the
following table:--

    RESOLUTION.                                DISCOVERY.

   Officers and Men.  No.  Officers            No.   Officers
                              Names                     Names.
   Captains,           1   James Cook.           1   Charles Clerke.
   Lieutenants,        3   John Gore.            2   James Burney.
                           James King.               John Rickman.
                           John Williamson.
   Master,             1   William Bligh.        1   Thomas Edgar.
   Boatswain,          1   William Ewin.         1   Aneas Atkins.
   Carpenter,          1   James Clevely.        1   Peter Reynolds.
   Gunner,             1   Robert Anderson.      1   William Peckover.
   Surgeon,            1   William Anderson.     1   John Law.
   Lieutenants,        1   Molesworth Philips.
   Serjeant,           1                         1
   Corporals,          2                         1
   Drummer,            1                         1
   Privates,          15                         8

   Total,            112                        80

On the 10th, the commissioner and pay clerks came on board, and paid the officers and crew
up to the 30th of last month. The petty officers and seamen had, besides, two months wages
in advance. Such indulgence to the latter is no more than what is customary in the navy. But
the payment of what was due to the superior officers was humanely ordered by the Admiralty,
in consideration of our peculiar situation, that we might be better able to defray the very
great expence of furnishing ourselves with a stock of necessaries for a voyage which, probably,
would be of unusual duration, and to regions where no supply could be expected.

Nothing now obstructing my departure but a contrary wind, which blew strong at S.W., in the
morning of the 11th, I delivered into the hands of Mr Burney, first lieutenant of the Discovery,
Captain Clerke's sailing orders; a copy of which I also left with the officer commanding his
majesty's ships at Plymouth, to be delivered to the captain immediately on his arrival. In
the afternoon, the wind moderating, we weighed with the ebb, and got farther out, beyond all
the shipping in the sound; where, after making an unsuccessful attempt to get to sea, we were
detained most of the following day, which was employed in receiving on board a supply of water;
and, by the same vessel that brought it, all the empty casks were returned.

As I did not imagine my stay at Plymouth would have been so long as it proved, we did not get
our instruments on shore to make the necessary observations for ascertaining the longitude
by the watch. For the same reason, Mr Bayly did not set about this, till he found that the
Discovery would probably be detained some days after us. He then placed his quadrant upon Drake's
Island; and had time, before the Resolution sailed, to make observations sufficient for the
purpose we had in view. Our watch made the island to lie 4° 14', and his, 4° 13 1/2', west
of Greenwich. Its latitude, as found by Messrs Wales and Bayly, on the last voyage, is 50° 21' 30"

We had not been long out of Plymouth Sound, before the wind came more westerly, and blew fresh,
so that we were obliged to ply down the Channel; and it was not till the 14th, at eight in
the evening, that we were off the Lizard.

On the 16th, at noon, St Agnes's light-house on the isles of Scilly bore N.W. by W., distant
seven or eight miles. Our latitude was now 49° 53' 30" N., and our longitude, by the watch,
6° 11' W. Hence, I reckon that St Agnes's light-house is in 49° 57' 30" N. latitude, and in
6° 20' of W. longitude.

On the 17th[68] and 18th we were off Ushant, and found the longitude of the island to be, by
the watch, 5° 18' 37" W. The variation was 23° 0' 50", in the same direction.

[Footnote 68: It appears from Captain Cook's log-book, that he began his judicious operations
for preserving the health of his crew, very early in the voyage. On the 17th, the ship was
smoked between decks with gunpowder. The spare sails also were then well aired.--D.]

With a strong gale at S., on the 19th, we stood to the westward, till eight o'clock in the
morning; when the wind shifting to the W. and N.W., we tacked and stretched to the southward.
At this time, we saw nine sail of large ships, which we judged to be French men-of-war. They
took no particular notice of us, nor we of them.

At ten o'clock in the morning of the 22d, we saw Cape Ortegal; which at noon bore S.E. 1/2
S., about four leagues distant. At this time we were in the latitude of 44° 6' N.; and our
longitude, by the watch, was 8° 23" W.

After two days of calm weather, we passed Cape Finisterre on the afternoon of the 24th, with
a fine gale at N.N.E. The longitude of this cape, by the watch, is 9° 29' W.; and, by the mean
of forty-one lunar observations, made before and after we passed it, and reduced to it by the
watch, the result was 9° 19' 12".

On the 30th, at six minutes and thirty-eight seconds past ten o'clock at night, apparent time,
I observed, with a night telescope, the moon totally eclipsed. By the ephemeris, the same happened
at Greenwich at nine minutes past eleven o'clock; the difference being one hour, two minutes,
and twenty-two seconds, or 15° 35' 30" of longitude. The watch, for the same time, gave 15°
26' 45' longitude W.; and the latitude was 31° 10' N. No other observation could be made on
this eclipse, as the moon was hid behind the clouds the greater part of the time; and, in particular,
when the beginning and end of total darkness, and the end of the eclipse, happened.

Finding that we had not hay and corn sufficient for the subsistence of the stock of animals
on board, till our arrival at the Cape of Good Hope, I determined to touch at Teneriffe, to
get a supply of these, and of the usual refreshments for ourselves; thinking that island, for
such purposes, better adapted than Madeira. At four in the afternoon of the 31st, we saw Teneriffe,
and steered for the eastern part. At nine, being near it, we hauled up, and stood off and on
during the night.

At day-light, on the morning of the 1st of August, we sailed round the east point of the island;
and, about eight o'clock, anchored on the S.E. side of it, in the road of Santa Cruz, in twenty-three
fathoms water; the bottom, sand and ooze. Punta de Nago, the east point of the road, bore N.
64° E.; St Francis's church, remarkable for its high steeple, W.S.W.; the Pic, S. 65° W.; and
the S.W. point of the road, on which stands a fort or castle, S. 39° W. In this situation,
we moored N.E. and S.W. with a cable each way, being near half a mile from the shore.

We found, riding in this road, La Boussole, a French frigate, commanded by the Chevalier de
Borda; two brigantines of the same nation; an English brigantine from London, bound to Senegal;
and fourteen sail of Spanish vessels.

No sooner had we anchored, than we were visited by the master of the port, who satisfied himself
with asking the ship's name. Upon his leaving us, I sent an officer ashore, to present my respects
to the governor; and to ask his leave to take in water, and to purchase such articles as we
were in want of. All this he granted with the greatest politeness; and, soon after, sent an
officer on board, to compliment me on my arrival. In the afternoon, I waited upon him in person,
accompanied by some of my officers; and, before I returned to my ship, bespoke some corn and
straw for the live stock; ordered a quantity of wine from Mr McCarrick, the contractor, and
made an agreement with the master of a Spanish boat to supply us with water, as I found that
we could not do it ourselves.

The road of Santa Cruz is situated before the town of the same name, on the S.E. side of the
island. It is, as I am told, the principal road of Teneriffe, for shelter, capacity, and the
goodness of its bottom. It lies entirely open to the S.E. and S. winds. But these winds are
never of long continuance; and, they say, there is not an instance of a ship driving from her
anchors on shore.[69] This may, in part, be owing to the great care they take in mooring them;
for I observed, that all the ships we met with, there, had four anchors out; two to the N.E.,
and two to the S.W.; and their cables buoyed up with casks. Ours suffered a little by not observing
this last precaution.

[Footnote 69: Though no such instance was known to those from whom Captain Cook had this information,
we learn from Glas, that some years before he was at Teneriffe, almost all the shipping in
the road were driven on shore. See Glas's History of the Canary Islands, p. 235. We may well
suppose the precautions now used, have prevented any more such accidents happening. This will
sufficiently justify Captain Cook's account.--- D.]

At the S.W. part of the road, a stone pier runs out into the sea from the town, for the convenience
of loading and landing of goods. To this pier, the water that supplies the shipping is conveyed.
This, as also what the inhabitants of Santa Cruz use, is derived from a rivulet that runs from
the hills, the greatest part of which comes into the town in wooden spouts or troughs, that
are supported by slender posts, and the remainder doth not reach the sea; though it is evident,
from the size of the channel, that sometimes large torrents rush down. At this time these troughs
were repairing, so that fresh water, which is very good here, was scarce.

Were we to judge from the appearance of the country in the neighbourhood of Santa Cruz, it
might be concluded that Teneriffe is a barren spot, insufficient to maintain even its own inhabitants.
The ample supplies, however, which we received, convinced as that they had enough to spare
for visitors. Besides wine, which is the chief produce of the island, beef may be had at a
moderate price. The oxen are small and bony, and weigh about ninety pounds a quarter. The meat
is but lean, and was, at present, sold for half a bit (three-pence sterling) a pound. I, unadvisedly,
bought the bullocks alive, and paid considerably more. Hogs, sheep, goats, and poultry, are
likewise to be bought at the same moderate rate; and fruits are in great plenty. At this time
we had grapes, figs, pears, mulberries, plantains, and musk-melons. There is a variety of other
fruits produced here, though not in season at this time. Their pumpkins, onions, and potatoes,
are exceedingly good of their kind; and keep better at sea than any I ever before met with.

The Indian corn, which is also their produce, cost me about three shillings and sixpence a
bushel; and the fruits and roots were, in general, very cheap. They have not any plentiful
supply of fish from the adjoining sea; but a very considerable fishery is carried on by their
vessels upon the coast of Barbary: and the produce of it sells at a reasonable price. Upon
the whole, I found Teneriffe to be a more eligible place than Madeira, for ships bound on long
voyages to touch at; though the wine of the latter, according to my taste, is as much superior
to that of the former, as strong beer is to small. To compensate for this, the difference of
prices is considerable; for the best Teneriffe wine was now sold for twelve pounds a pipe;
whereas a pipe of the best Madeira would have cost considerably more than double that sum.[70]

[Footnote 70: Formerly, there was made at Teneriffe a great quantity of Canary sack, which
the French call Vin de Malvesie; and we, corruptly after them, name Malmsey (from Malvesia,
a town in the Morea, famous for such luscious wine). In the last century, and still later,
much of this was imported into England; but little wine is now made there, but of the sort
described by Captain Cook. Not more than fifty pipes of the rich Canary were annually made
in Glas's time; and he says, they now gather the grapes when green, and make a dry hard wine
of them, fit for hot climates, p. 262.--D.]

The Chevalier De Borda, commander of the French frigate now lying in Santa Cruz road, was employed,
in conjunction with Mr Varila, a Spanish gentleman, in making astronomical observations for
ascertaining the going of two time-keepers which they had on board their ship. For this purpose,
they had a tent pitched on the pier head, where they made their observations, and compared
their watches, every day at noon, with the clock on shore, by signals. These signals the chevalier
very obligingly communicated to us; so that we could compare our watch at the same time. But
our stay was too short, to profit much by his kindness.

The three days comparisons which we made, assured us that the watch had not materially, if
at all, altered her rate of going; and gave us the same longitude, within a very few seconds,
that was obtained by finding the time from observations of the sun's altitude from the horizon
of the sea. The watch, from a mean of these observations, on the 1st, 2d, and 3d of August,
made the longitude 16° 31' W.; and, in like manner, the latitude was found to be 28° 30' 11" N.

Mr Varila informed us, that the true longitude was 18° 35' 30", from Paris, which is only 16°
16' 30" from Greenwich; less than what our watch gave by 14' 30". But, far from looking upon
this as an error in the watch, I rather think it a confirmation of its having gone well; and
that the longitude by it may be nearer the truth than any other. It is farther confirmed by
the lunar observations that we made in the road, which gave 16° 37' 10". Those made before
we arrived, and reduced to the road by the watch, gave 16° 33' 30"; and those made after we
left it, and reduced back in the same manner, gave 16° 28'. The mean of the three is 16° 30' 40".

To reduce these several longitudes, and the latitude, to the Pic of Teneriffe, one of the most
noted points of land with geographers, (to obtain the true situation of which, I have entered
into this particular discussion,) I had recourse to the bearing, and a few hours of the ship's
run after leaving Santa Cruz road; and found it to be 12' 11" S. of the road, and 29' 30" of
longitude W. of it. As the base, which helped to determine this, was partly estimated, it is
liable to some error; but I think I cannot be much mistaken. Dr Maskelyne, in his British Mariner's
Guide, places the Pic in the latitude of 28° 12' 54". This, with the bearing from the road,
will give the difference of longitude 43', which considerably exceeds the distance they reckon
the Pic to be from Santa Cruz. I made the latitude of the Pic to be 28° 18' N. Upon that supposition,
its longitude will be as follows:

       {The time-keeper, 17° 0' 30"    }
   By  {Lunar observations, 16° 30' 20"} W.
       {Mr Varila, 16° 46' 0"          }

But if the latitude of it is 28° 12' 54", as in the British Mariner's Guide, its longitude
will be 13° 30' more westerly.

The variation, when we were at anchor in the road, by the mean of all our compasses, was found
to be 14° 41' 20" W. The dip of the N. end of the needle was 61° 52' 30".

Some of Mr Anderson's remarks on the natural appearances of Teneriffe, and its productions,
and what he observed himself, or learnt by information, about the general state of the island,
will be of use, particularly in marking what changes may have happened there since Mr Glas
visited it. They here follow in his own words:

"While we were standing in for the land, the weather being perfectly clear, we had an opportunity
of seeing the celebrated Pic of Teneriffe. But, I own, I was much disappointed in my expectation
with respect to its appearance. It is, certainly, far from equalling the noble figure of Pico,
one of the western isles which I have seen; though its perpendicular height may be greater.
This circumstance, perhaps, arises from its being surrounded by other very high hills; whereas
Pico stands without a rival."

"Behind the city of Santa Cruz, the country rises gradually, and is of a moderate height. Beyond
this, to the south-westward, it becomes higher, and continues to rise toward the Pic, which,
from the road, appears but little higher than the surrounding hills. From thence it seems to
decrease, though not suddenly, as far as the eye can reach. From a supposition that we should
not stay above one day, I was obliged to contract my excursions into the country; otherwise,
I had proposed to visit the top of this famous mountain."[71]

[Footnote 71: See an account of a journey to the top of the Pic of Teneriffe, in Sprat's History
of the Royal Society, p.200, &c. Glas also went to the top of it.--History of the Canary Islands,
p. 252 to 259. In the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xlvii. p. 353-356, we have observations
made, in going up the Pic of Teneriffe, by Dr T. Heberden. The doctor makes its height, above
the level of the sea, to be 2566 fathoms, or 15,396 English feet; and says, that this was confirmed
by two subsequent observations by himself, and another made by Mr Crosse, the consul. And yet
I find that the Chevalier de Borda, who measured the height of this mountain in August 1776,
makes it to be only 1931 French toises, or 12,340 English feet. See Dr Forster's Observations
during a Voyage round the World, p. 32.--D.]

"To the eastward of Santa Cruz, the island appears perfectly barren. Ridges of hills run toward
the sea; between which ridges are deep valleys, terminating at mountains or hills that ran
across, and are higher than the former. Those that run toward the sea, are marked by impressions
on their sides, which make them appear as a succession of conic hills, with their tops very
rugged. The higher ones that run across, are more uniform in their appearance."

"In the forenoon of the 1st of August, after we had anchored in the road, I went on shore to
one of these valleys, with an intention to reach the top of the remoter hills, which seemed
covered with wood; but time would not allow me to get farther than their foot. After walking
about three miles, I found no alteration in the appearance of the lower hills, which produce
great quantities of the euphorbia Canariensis. It is surprising that this large succulent plant
should thrive on so burnt-up a soil. When broken which is easily done, the quantity of juice
is very great; and it might be supposed that, when dried, it would shrivel to nothing; yet
it is a pretty tough, though soft and light wood. The people here believe its juice to be so
caustic as to erode the skin;[72] but I convinced them, though with much difficulty, to the
contrary, by thrusting my finger into the plant full of it, without afterward wiping it off.
They break down the bushes of euphorbia, and, suffering them to dry, carry them home for fuel.
I met with nothing else growing there, but two or three small shrubs, and a few fig-trees near
the bottom of the valley."

[Footnote 72: Glas, p. 231, speaking of this plant, says, "that he cannot imagine why the natives
of the Canaries do not extract the juice, and use it instead of pitch, for the bottoms of their
boats." We now learn from Mr Anderson their reason for not using it,--D].

"The basis of the hills is a heavy, compact, bluish stone, mixed with some shining particles;
and, on the surface, large masses of red friable earth, or stone, are scattered about. I also
often found the same substance disposed in thick strata; and the little earth, strewed here
and there, was a blackish mould. There were likewise some pieces of slag; one of which, from
its weight and smooth surface, seemed almost wholly metalline."

"The mouldering state of these hills is, doubtless, owing to the perpetual action of the sun,
which calcines their surface. This mouldered part being afterward washed away by the heavy
rains, perhaps is the cause of their sides being so uneven. For, as the different substances
of which they are composed, are more or less easily affected by the sun's heat, they will be
carried away in the like proportions. Hence, perhaps, the tops of the hills, being of the hardest
rock, have stood, while the other parts on a declivity have been destroyed. As I have usually
observed, that the tops of most mountains that are covered with trees have a more uniform appearance,
I am inclined to believe that this is owing to their being shaded."

"The city of Santa Cruz, though not large, is tolerably well built. The churches are not magnificent
without; but within are decent, and indifferently ornamented. They are inferior to some of
the churches at Madeira; but I imagine this rather arises from the different disposition of
the people, than from their inability to support them better. For the private houses, and dress
of the Spanish inhabitants of Santa Cruz, are far preferable to those of the Portuguese at
Madeira; who, perhaps, are willing to strip themselves, that they may adorn their churches."

"Almost facing the stone pier at the landing-place, is a handsome marble column lately put
up, ornamented with some human figures, that do no discredit to the artist; with an inscription
in Spanish, to commemorate the occasion of the erection, and the date."

"In the afternoon of the 2d, four of us hired mules to ride to the city of Laguna,[73] so called
from an adjoining lake, about four miles from Santa Cruz. We arrived there between five and
six in the evening; but found a sight of it very unable to compensate for our trouble, as the
road was very bad, and the mules but indifferent. The place is, indeed, pretty extensive, but
scarcely deserves to be dignified with the name of city. The disposition of its streets is
very irregular; yet some of them are of a tolerable breadth, and have some good houses. In
general, however, Laguna is inferior in appearance to Santa Cruz, though the latter is but
small, if compared with the former. We are informed, likewise, that Laguna is declining fast;
there being, at present, some vineyards where houses formerly stood; whereas Santa Cruz is
increasing daily."

[Footnote 73: Its extended name is St Christobal de la Laguna; and it used to be reckoned the
capital of the island, the gentry and lawyers living there; though the governor-general of
the Canary Islands resides at Santa Cruz, as being the centre of their trade, both with Europe
and America. See Glas's History, p. 248.--D.]

"The road leading from Santa Cruz to Laguna runs up a steep hill, which is very barren; but,
lower down, we saw some fig-trees, and several corn fields. These are but small, and not thrown
into ridges, as is practised in England. Nor does it appear that they can raise any corn here
without great labour, as the ground is so encumbered with stones, that they are obliged to
collect and lay them in broad rows, or walls, in small distances. The large hills that run
to the S.W., appeared to be pretty well furnished with trees. Nothing else worth noticing presented
itself during this excursion, except a few aloe plants in flower, near the side of the road,
and the cheerfulness of our guides, who amused us with songs by the way."

"Most of the laborious work in this island is performed by mules; horses being to appearance
scarce, and chiefly reserved for the use of the officers. They are of a small size, but well
shaped and spirited. Oxen are also employed to drag their casks along upon a large clumsy piece
of wood; and they are yoked by the head, though it doth not seem that this has any peculiar
advantage over our method of fixing the harness on the shoulders. In my walks and excursions
I saw some hawks, parrots which are natives of the island, the sea-swallow or tern, sea-gulls,
partridges, wagtails, swallows, martins, blackbirds, and Canary-birds in large flocks. There
are also lizards of the common, and another sort; some insects, as locusts; and three or four
sorts of dragon flies."

"I had an opportunity of conversing with a sensible and well-informed gentleman residing here,
and whose veracity I have not the least reason to doubt. From him I learnt some particulars,
which, during the short stay of three days, did not fall within my own observation. He informed
me, that a shrub is common here, agreeing exactly with the description given by Tournefort
and Linnaeus, of the tea shrub, as growing in China and Japan. It is reckoned a weed, and he
roots out thousands of them every year from his vineyards. The Spaniards, however, of the island,
sometimes use it as tea, and ascribe to it all the qualities of that imported from China. They
also give it the name of tea; but what is remarkable, they say it was found here when the islands
were first discovered."

"Another botanical curiosity, mentioned by him, is what they call the impregnated lemon.[74]
It is a perfect and distinct lemon, inclosed within another, differing from the outer one only
in being a little more globular. The leaves of the tree that produces this sort, are much longer
than those of the common one; and it was represented to me as being crooked, and not equal
in beauty."

[Footnote 74: The writer of the Relation of Teneriffe, in Sprat's History, p. 207, takes notice
of this lemon as produced here, and calls it Pregnada. Probably, emprennada, the Spanish word
for impregnated, is the name it goes by.--D.]

"From him I learnt also, that a certain sort of grape growing here, is reckoned an excellent
remedy in phthisical complaints; and the air and climate, in general, are remarkably healthful,
and particularly adapted to give relief in such diseases. This he endeavoured to account for,
by its being always in one's power to procure a different temperature of the air, by residing
at different heights in the island; and he expressed his surprise that the English physicians
should never have thought of sending their consumptive patients to Teneriffe, instead of Nice
or Lisbon. How much the temperature of the air varies here, I myself could sensibly perceive,
only in riding from Santa Cruz up to Laguna; and you may ascend till the cold becomes intolerable.
I was assured that no person can live comfortably within a mile of the perpendicular height
of the Pic, after the month of August."[75]

[Footnote 75: This agrees with Dr T. Heberden's account, who says that the sugar-loaf part
of the mountain, or la pericosa, (as it is called,) which is an eighth part of a league (or
1980 feet) to the top, is covered with snow the greatest part of the year. See Philosophical
Transactions, as quoted above.--D.]

"Although some smoke constantly issues from near the top of the Pic, they have had no earthquake
or eruption of a volcano since 1704, when the port of Garrachica, where much of their trade
was formerly carried on, was destroyed."[76]

[Footnote 76: This port was then filled up by the rivers of burning lava that flowed into it
from a volcano; insomuch that houses are now built where ships formerly lay at anchor. See
Glas's History, p. 244.--D.]

"Their trade, indeed, must be considered as very considerable; for they reckon that forty thousand
pipes of wine are annually made, the greatest part of which is either consumed in the island,
or made into brandy, and sent to the Spanish West Indies.[77] About six thousand pipes were
exported every year to North America, while the trade with it was uninterrupted; at present,
they think not above half the quantity. The corn they raise is, in general, insufficient to
maintain the inhabitants; but the deficiency used to be supplied by importation from the North
Americans, who took their wines in return."

[Footnote 77: Glas, p. 342, says, that they annually export no less than fifteen thousand pipes
of wine and brandy. In another place, p. 252, he tells us, that the number of the inhabitants
of Teneriffe, when the last account was taken, was no less than 96,000. We may reasonably suppose
that there has been a considerable increase of population since Glas visited the island, which
is above thirty years ago. The quantity of wine annually consumed, as the common beverage of
at least one hundred thousand persons, must amount to several thousand pipes. There must be
a vast expenditure of it, by conversion into brandy; to produce one pipe of which, five or
six pipes of wine must be distilled. An attention to these particulars will enable every one
to judge, that the account given to Mr Anderson, of an annual produce of 40,000 pipes of wine,
has a foundation in truth.--D.]

"They make a little silk; but unless we reckon the filtering-stones, brought in great numbers
from Grand Canary, the wine is the only considerable article of the foreign commerce of Teneriffe.'

"None of the race of inhabitants found here when the Spaniards discovered the Canaries, now
remain a distinct people;[78] having intermarried with the Spanish settlers; but their descendants
are known, from their being remarkably tall, large-boned, and strong. The men are, in general,
of a tawny colour, and the women have a pale complexion, entirely destitute of that bloom which
distinguishes our northern beauties. The Spanish custom of wearing black clothes continues
amongst them; but the men seem more indifferent about this, and in some measure dress like
the French. In other respects, we found the inhabitants of Teneriffe to be a decent and very
civil people, retaining that grave cast which distinguishes those of their country from other
European nations. Although we do not think that there is a great similarity between our manners
and those of the Spaniards, it is worth observing, that Omai did not think there was much difference.
He only said, 'that they seemed not so friendly as the English; and that, in their persons,
they approached those of his countrymen.'"

[Footnote 78: It was otherwise in Glas's time, when a few families of the Guanches (as they
are called) remained still in Teneriffe, not blended with the Spaniards.

Having completed our water, and got on board every other thing we wanted at Teneriffe, we weighed
anchor on the 4th of August, and proceeded on our voyage, with a fine gale at N.E.

At nine o'clock in the evening on the 10th,[79] we saw the island of Bonavista bearing south,
distant little more than a league; though, at this time, we thought ourselves much farther
off: But this proved a mistake. For, after hauling to the eastward till twelve o'clock, to
clear the sunken rocks that lie about a league from the S.E. point of the island, we found
ourselves, at that time, close upon them, and did but just weather the breakers. Our situation,
for a few minutes, was very alarming. I did not choose to sound, as that might have heightened
the danger, without any possibility of lessening it. I make the north end of the island of
Bonavista to lie in the latitude of 16° 17' N., and in the longitude of 22° 59' W.

[Footnote 79: As a proof of Captain Cook's attention, both to the discipline and to the health
of his ship's company, it may be worth while to observe here, that it appears from his log-book,
he exercised them at great guns and small arms, and cleaned and smoked the ship betwixt decks,
twice in the interval between the 4th and the 10th of August.--D.]

As soon as we were clear of the rocks, we steered S.S.W., till day-break next morning, and
then hauled to the westward, to go between Bonavista and the isle of Mayo, intending to look
into Port Praya for the Discovery, as I had told Captain Clerke that I should touch there,
and did not know how soon he might sail after me. At one in the afternoon, we saw the rocks
that lie on the S.W. side of Bonavista, bearing S.E., distant three or four leagues.

Next morning, at six o'clock, the isle of Mayo bore S.S.E., distant about five leagues. In
this situation we sounded, and found ground at sixty fathoms. At the same time the variation,
by the mean of several azimuths taken with three different compasses, was 9° 32 1/2' W. At
eleven o'clock, one extreme of Mayo bore E. by N., and the other S.E. by S. In this position,
two roundish hills appeared near its N.E. part; farther on, a large and higher hill; and, at
about two-thirds of its length, a single one that is peaked. At the distance we now saw this
island, which was three or four miles, there was not the least appearance of vegetation, nor
any relief to the eye from that lifeless brown which prevails in countries under the Torrid
Zone that are unwooded.

Here I cannot help remarking that Mr Nichelson, in his Preface to "Sundry Remarks and Observations
made in a Voyage to the East Indies,"[80] tells us, that "with eight degrees west variation,
or any thing above that, you may venture to sail by the Cape de Verde Islands night or day,
being well assured, with that variation, that you are to the eastward of them." Such an assertion
might prove of dangerous consequence, were there any that would implicitly trust to it. We
also tried the current, and found one setting S.W. by W., something more than half a mile an
hour. We had reason to expect this, from the differences between the longitude given by the
watch and dead reckoning, which, since our leaving Teneriffe, amounted to one degree.

[Footnote 80: On board his majesty's ship Elizabeth, from 1758 to 1764; by William Nichelson,
master of the said ship.--London, 1773.]

While we were amongst these islands, we had light breezes of wind, varying from the S.E. to
E., and some calms. This shews that the Cape de Verde islands are either extensive enough to
break the current of the trade wind, or that they are situated just beyond its verge, in that
space where the variable winds, found on getting near the Line, begin. The first supposition,
however, is the most probable, as Dampier found the wind westerly here in the month of February;
at which time the trade wind is supposed to extend farthest toward the equinoctial.[81] The
weather was hot and sultry, with some rain; and, for the most part, a dull whiteness prevailed
in the sky, that seems a medium between fog and clouds. In general, the tropical regions seldom
enjoy that clear atmosphere observable where variable winds blow; nor does the sun shine with
such brightness. This circumtance, however, seems an advantage; for otherwise, perhaps, the
rays of the sun, being uninterrupted, would render the heat quite unsupportable. The nights
are, nevertheless, often clear and serene.

[Footnote 81: Dampier's Voyages, vol. iii. p.10.--Captain Krusenstern appears to be of the
same opinion, as to the Cape de Verde islands being of sufficient magnitude to alter the direction
of the trade winds, remarking that S.W. winds are frequently met with there, and that if they
are not, the wind is always very moderate in their vicinity. He recommends vessels, on their
passage to the equator, to take their course to the westward of these islands, so as to cross
the parallel of 17°, or that of the island of Antonio in 26-1/2°, or even that of 27°, and
then to steer S.E. by S. directly to the equator. He further advises, that, if possible, the
passage of the Line be effected in 20° or 21°, as then there is the advantage of a directly
free wind as soon as the S.E. trade sets in, and of course the ship gets quicker to the southward.
But this can rarely be done. He himself crossed the equator in 24° 20' W., after a passage
of thirty days from Santa Cruz. Ships, he informs us, when crossing in a more westerly direction
than 25° and 26°, have been driven by strong currents, and a too southerly trade wind, so near
the coast of Brazil, as not to be able to clear Cape St Augustin. The present opportunity is
taken of mentioning, that this very cautious and intelligent navigator agrees, in general,
with Cook, as to Nichelson's rule. "His instructions for crossing the Line, on the voyage to
India, with 6° 30' and 7° 00' west variation, but in returning to Europe, with eight degrees,
might have been of use forty years ago, when the method of finding the longitude at sea by
distances of the sun and moon was known to very few navigators, and for a time no great error
was committed by pursuing them; but at present a variation of seven degrees would hardly be
found on the coast of Africa."--The reason is, as the scientific reader must know, that the
variation has been on the western increase since the period alluded to. Thus Nichelson found
it at St Helena, in 1764, to be 11° 38', and Captain Krusenstern, in 1806, a space of forty-two
years, 17° 18' 10".--E.]

At nine o'clock in the morning of the 13th, we arrived before Port Praya, in the island of
St Jago, where we saw two Dutch East India ships, and a small brigantine, at anchor. As the
Discovery was not there, and we had expended but little water in our passage from Teneriffe,
I did not think proper to go in, but stood to the southward. Some altitudes of the sun were
now taken, to ascertain the true time. The longitude by the watch, deduced therefrom, was 23°
48' west; the little island in the bay bore W.N.W., distant near three miles, which will make
its longitude 23° 51'. The same watch, on my late voyage, made the longitude to be 23° 30'
W.; and we observed the latitude to be 14° 53' 30" N.

The day after we left the Cape de Verde islands, we lost the N.E. trade wind; but did not get
that which blows from the S.E. till the 30th, when we were in the latitude of 2° north, and
in the twenty-fifth degree of west longitude.

During this interval,[82] the wind was mostly in the S.W. quarter. Sometimes it blew fresh,
and in squalls; but for the most part a gentle breeze. The calms were few, and of short duration.
Between the latitude of 12° and of 7° N., the weather was generally dark and gloomy, with frequent
rains, which enabled us to save as much water as filled most of our empty casks.

[Footnote 82: On the 18th, I sunk a bucket with a thermometer seventy fathoms below the surface
of the sea, where it remained two minutes; and it took three minutes more to haul it up. The
mercury in the thermometer was at 66, which before, in the air, stood at 78, and in the surface
of the sea at 79. The water which came up in the bucket, contained, by Mr Cavendish's table,
1/25, 7 part salt; and that at the surface of the sea 1/29, 4. As this last was taken up after
a smart shower of rain, it might be lighter on that account.--Captain Cook's log-book.]

These rains, and the close sultry weather accompanying them, too often bring on sickness in
this passage. Every bad consequence, at least, is to be apprehended from them; and commanders
of ships cannot be too much upon their guard, by purifying the air between decks with fires
and smoke, and by obliging the people to dry their clothes at every opportunity. These precautions
were constantly observed on board the Resolution[83] and Discovery; and we certainly profited
by them, for we had now fewer sick than on either of my former voyages. We had, however, the
mortification to find our ship exceedingly leaky in all her upper works. The hot and sultry
weather we had just passed through, had opened her seams, which had been badly caulked at first,
so wide, that they admitted the rain-water through as it fell. There was hardly a man that
could lie dry in his bed; and the officers in the gun-room were all driven out of their cabins,
by the water that came through the sides. The sails in the sail-room got wet; and before we
had weather to dry them, many of them were much damaged, and a great expence of canvas and
of time became necessary to make them in some degree serviceable. Having experienced the same
defect in our sail-rooms on my late voyage, it had been represented to the yard-officers, who
undertook to remove it. But it did not appear to me that any thing had been done to remedy
the complaint. To repair these defects the caulkers were set to work, as soon as we got into
fair and settled weather, to caulk the decks and inside weather-works of the ship; for I would
not trust them over the sides while we were at sea.

[Footnote 83: The particulars are mentioned in his log-book. On the 14th of August a fire was
made in the well, to air the ship below. On the 15th, the spare sails were aired upon deck,
and a fire made to air the sail-room. On the 17th, cleaned and smoked betwixt decks, and the
bread-room aired with fires. On the 21st, cleaned and smoked betwixt decks; and on the 22d,
the men's bedding was spread on deck to air.--D.]

On the first of September[84] we crossed the equator, in the longitude of 27° 38' W., with
a fine gale at S.E. by S.; and notwithstanding my apprehensions of falling in with the coast
of Brazil in stretching to the S.W., I kept the ship a full point from the wind. However, I
found my fears were ill-grounded; for on drawing near that coast, we met with the wind more
and more easterly; so that, by the time we were in the latitude of 10° S., we could make a
south-easterly course good.

[Footnote 84: The afternoon, as appears from Mr Anderson's Journal, was spent in performing
the old and ridiculous ceremony of ducking those who had not crossed the equator before. Though
Captain Cook did not suppress the custom, he thought it too trifling to deserve the least mention
of it in his Journal, or even in his log-book. Pernetty, the writer of Bougainville's Voyage
to the Falkland Islands, in 1763 and 1764, thought differently; for his account of the celebration
of this childish festival on board his ship, is extended through seventeen pages, and makes
the subject of an entire chapter, under the title of Baptême de la Ligne.

It may be worth while to transcribe his introduction to the description of it. "C'est un usage
qui ne remonte pas plus haut que ce voyage célébre de Gama, qui a fourni au Camoens le sujet
de la Lusiade. L'idée qu'on ne sçauroit être un bon marin, sans avoir traversé l'Equateur,
l'ennui inséparable d'une longue navigation, un certain esprit republicain qui regne dans toutes
les petites societés, peut-être toutes ces causes reunies, ont pu donner naissance à ces especes
de saturnales. Quoiqu'il en soi, elles furent adoptées, en un instant, dans toutes les nations,
et les hommes les plus eclairés furent obligés de se soumettre à une coutume dont ils reconnoissoient
l'absurdité. Car, partout, dès que le peuple parle, il faut que le sage se mette à l'unison."--Histoire
d'un Voyage aux Isles Malouines, p. 107, 108.--D.]

On the 8th, we were in the latitude of 8° 57' S.; which is a little to the southward of Cape
St Augustine, on the coast of Brazil. Our longitude, deduced from a very great number of lunar
observations, was 34° 16' W.; and by the watch, 34° 47'. The former is 1° 43', and the latter
2° 14' more westerly than the island of Fernando de Noronha, the situation of which was pretty
well determined during my late voyage. Hence I concluded that we could not now be farther from
the continent than twenty or thirty leagues at most; and perhaps not much less, as we neither
had soundings nor any other signs of land. Dr Halley, however, in his voyage, published by
Mr Dalrymple, tells us,[85] that "he made no more than one hundred and two miles, meridian
distance, from the island [Fernando de Noronha] to the coast of Brazil;" and seems to think
that "currents could not be the whole cause" of his making so little. But I rather think that
he was mistaken, and that the currents had hurried him far to the westward of his intended
course. This was, in some measure, confirmed by our own observations; for we had found, during
three or four days preceding the 8th, that the currents set to the westward; and, during the
last twenty-four hours, it had set strong to the northward, as we experienced a difference
of twenty-nine miles between our observed latitude and that by dead reckoning. Upon the whole,
till some better astronomical observations are made on shore on the eastern coast of Brazil,
I shall conclude that its longitude is thirty-five degrees and a half, or thirty-six degrees
W., at most.

[Footnote 85: Page 11.]

We proceeded on our voyage, without meeting with any thing of note, till the 6th of October.
Being then in the latitude of 35° 15' S., longitude 7° 45' W., we met with light airs and calms
by turns, for three days successively. We had, for some days before, seen albatrosses, pintadoes,
and other petrels; and here we saw three penguins, which occasioned us to sound; but we found
no ground with a line of one hundred and fifty fathoms. We put a boat in the water, and shot
a few birds; one of which was a black petrel, about the size of a crow, and, except as to the
bill and feet, very like one. It had a few white feathers under the throat; and the under-side
of the quill-feathers were of an ash-colour. All the other feathers were jet black, as also
the bill and legs.

On the 8th, in the evening, one of those birds which sailors call noddies, settled on our rigging,
and was caught. It was something larger than an English black-bird, and nearly as black, except
the upper part of the head, which was white, looking as if it were powdered; the whitest feathers
growing out from the base of the upper bill, from which they gradually assumed a darker colour,
to about the middle of the upper part of the neck, where the white shade was lost in the black,
without being divided by any line. It was web-footed; had black legs and a black bill, which
was long, and not unlike that of a curlew. It is said these birds never fly far from land.
We knew of none nearer the station we were in, than Gough's or Richmond Island, from which
our distance could not be less than one hundred leagues. But it must be observed that the Atlantic
Ocean, to the southward of this latitude, has been but little frequented; so that there may
be more islands there than we are acquainted with.

We frequently, in the night, saw those luminous marine animals mentioned and described in my
first voyage. Some of them seemed to be considerably larger than any I had before met with;
and sometimes they were so numerous, that hundreds were visible at the same moment.

This calm weather was succeeded by a fresh gale from the N.W., which lasted two days. Then
we had again variable light airs for about twenty-four hours; when the N.W. wind returned,
and blew with such strength, that on the 17th we had sight of the Cape of Good Hope; and the
next day anchored in Table Bay, in four fathoms water, with the church bearing S.W. 1/4 S.,
and Green Point N.W. 1/4 W.

As soon as we had received the usual visit from the master attendant and the surgeon, I sent
an officer to wait on Baron Plettenberg, the governor; and, on his return, saluted the garrison
with thirteen guns, which compliment was returned with the same number.

We found in the bay two French East India ships; the one outward, and the other homeward bound.
And two or three days before our arrival, another homeward-bound ship of the same nation had
parted from her cable, and been driven on shore at the head of the bay, where she was lost.
The crew were saved; but the greatest part of the cargo shared the same fate with the ship,
or (which amounted to the same) was plundered and stolen by the inhabitants, either out of
the ship, or as it was driven or carried on shore. This is the account the French officers
gave to me; and the Dutch themselves could not deny the fact. But, by way of excusing themselves
from being guilty of a crime disgraceful to every civilized state, they endeavoured to lay
the whole blame on the French captain, for not applying in time for a guard.

As soon as we had saluted, I went on shore, accompanied by some of my officers, and waited
on the Governor, the Lieutenant-Governor, the Fiscal, and the Commander of the troops. These
gentlemen received me with the greatest civility; and the Governor, in particular, promised
me every assistance that the place afforded. At the same time I obtained his leave to set up
our observatory on any spot I should think most convenient; to pitch tents for the sail-makers
and coopers; and to bring the cattle on shore, to graze near our encampment. Before I returned
on board, I ordered soft bread, fresh meat, and greens, to be provided, every day, for the
ship's company.

On the 22d, we set up the tents and observatory, and began to send the several articles out
of the ship which I wanted on shore. This could not be done sooner, as the militia of the place
were exercising on, or near, the ground which we were to occupy.

The next day, we began to observe equal altitudes of the sun, in order to ascertain the rate
of the watch, or, which is the same thing, to find whether it had altered its rate. These observations
were continued every day, whenever the weather would permit, till the time of our departure
drew near. But before this, the caulkers had been set to work to caulk the ship; and I had
concerted measures with Messrs Brandt and Chiron, for supplying both ships with such provisions
as I should want. Bakers, likewise, had been ordered, immediately after our arrival, to bake
such a quantity of bread as I thought would be requisite. As fast as the several articles destined
for the Resolution were got ready, they were carried on board.

On the 26th, the French ship sailed for Europe, and by her we sent letters to England. The
next day, the Hampshire East India ship, from Bencoolen, anchored in the bay, and saluted us
with thirteen guns, which we returned with eleven.

Nothing remarkable happened till the evening of the 31st, when it came on to blow excessively
hard at S.E., and continued for three days; during which time there was no communication between
the ship and the shore. The Resolution was the only ship in the bay that rode out the gale
without dragging her anchors. We felt its effects as sensibly on shore. Our tents and observatory
were torn to pieces; and our astronomical quadrant narrowly escaped irreparable damage. On
the 3d of November the storm ceased, and the next day we resumed our different employments.

On the 6th, the Hampshire India ship sailed for England. In her I sent home an invalid, whom
Captain Trimble was so obliging as to receive on board. I was afterward sorry that I had not
availed myself of this opportunity to part with two or three more of my crew, who were troubled
with different complaints; but, at this time, there was some hope of their health being re-established.

In the morning of the 10th, the Discovery arrived in the bay. Captain Clerke informed me that
he had sailed from Plymouth on the 1st of August, and should have been with us here a week
sooner, if the gale of wind had not blown him off the coast. Upon the whole, he was seven days
longer in his passage from England than we had been. He had the misfortune to lose one of his
marines, by falling overboard; but there had been no other mortality amongst his people, and
they now arrived well and healthy.

Captain Clerke having represented to me that his ship was in want of caulking; that no time
might be lost in repairing this defect, next day I sent all my workmen on board her, having
already completed this service on board the Resolution. I lent every other assistance to the
captain to expedite his supply of provisions and water, having given him an order to receive
on board as much of both articles as he could conveniently stow. I now found that the bakers
had failed in baking the bread I had ordered for the Discovery. They pretended a want of flour;
but the truth was, they were doubtful of her coming, and did not care to begin till they saw
her at anchor in the bay.

I have before made mention of our getting our cattle on shore. The bull and two cows, with
their calves, were sent to graze along with some other cattle; but I was advised to keep our
sheep, sixteen in number, close to our tents, where they were penned up every night. During
the night preceding the 14th, some dogs having got in amongst them, forced them out of the
pen, killing four, and dispersing the rest. Six of them were recovered the next day; but the
two rams, and two of the finest ewes in the whole flock, were amongst those missing. Baron
Plettenberg being now in the country, I applied to the Lieutenant-Governor, Mr Hemmy, and to
the Fiscal. Both these gentlemen promised to use their endeavours for the recovery of the lost
sheep. The Dutch, we know, boasted that the police at the Cape was so carefully executed, that
it was hardly possible for a slave, with all his cunning and knowledge of the country, to effectuate
his escape. Yet my sheep evaded all the vigilance of the Fiscal's officers and people. However,
after much trouble and expence, by employing some of the meanest and lowest scoundrels in the
place (who, to use the phrase of the person who recommended this method to me, would, for a
ducatoon, cut their master's throat, burn the house over his head, and bury him and the whole
family in the ashes), I recovered them all but the two ewes. Of these I never could bear the
least tidings; and I gave over all enquiry after them, when I was told that, since I had got
the two rams, I might think myself very well off. One of these, however, was so much hurt by
the dogs, that there was reason to believe he would never recover.

Mr Hemmy very obligingly offered to make up this loss, by giving me a Spanish ram, out of some
that he had sent for from Lisbon. But I declined the offer, under a persuasion that it would
answer my purpose full as well, to take with me some of the Cape rams: the event proved that
I was under a mistake. This gentleman had taken some pains to introduce European sheep at the
Cape; but his endeavours, as he told me, had been frustrated by the obstinacy of the country
people, who held their own breed in greater estimation, on account of their large tails, of
the fat of which, they sometimes made more money than of the whole carcase besides; and who
thought that the wool of European sheep would, by no means, make up for their deficiency in
this respect.[86] Indeed, I have heard some sensible men here make the same observation. And
there seems to be foundation for it. For, admitting that European sheep were to produce wool
of the same quality here as in Europe, which experience has shewn not to be the case, the Dutch
had not hands, at the Cape of Good Hope, to spare for the manufacturing even their own clothing.
It is certain that, were it not for the continual importation of slaves, this settlement would
have been thinner of people than any other inhabited part of the world.

[Footnote 86: "The most remarkable thing in the Cape sheep, is the length and thickness of
their tails, which weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds. The fat is not so tallowish as that
of European mutton, and the poorer sort use it for butter."--Kolben's Cape of Good Hope (English
translation), vol. ii. p. 65. De la Caille, who finds every thing wrong in Kolben, says, the
weight of the tails of the Cape sheep is not above five or six pounds.--Voyage de la Caille,
p. 343. If the information given to Captain Cook may be depended upon, it will prove, that,
in this instance at least, Kolben is unjustly accused of exaggeration.--D.

According to Mr Bingley and others, the tail of this sheep sometimes weighs nearly one-third
of the whole carcase, and consists of a substance intermediate betwixt fat and marrow, which
is often used instead of butter. The fleeces are very fine, long and beautiful; and, in Thibet,
where the breed is also found, are worked into shawls. A similar breed is said to be found
in other countries, as Barbary, Ethiopia, the vicinity of Aleppo, Persia, and Asiatic Russia.
Kolben's account is conceived to be perfectly credible.--E.]

While the ships were getting ready for the prosecution of our voyage, some of our officers
made an excursion to take a view of the neighbouring country. Mr Anderson, my surgeon, who
was one of the party, gave me the following relation of their proceedings.[87]

[Footnote 87: In the Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxvi. p. 268 to 319, is an Account of
Three Journies from the Cape Town into the Southern Parts of Africa, in 1772, 1773, and 1774;
by Mr Francis Masson, who had been sent from England for the discovery of new plants, towards
the improvement of the Royal Botanical Garden at Kew. Much curious information is contained
in Mr Masson's account of these journies. M. de Pagés, who was at the Cape in 1773, gives some
remarks on the state of that settlement, and also the particulars of his journey from False
Bay to the Cape Town.--Voyage vers le Pole du Sud, p. 17 to 32.--D.

It is unnecessary to apprise the reader, that our acquaintance with the Cape has been most
materially increased since the date of this publication, and that several travellers have devoted
their labours to the illustration of its natural history.--E.]

"On the 16th, in the forenoon, I set out in a waggon, with five more, to take a view of some
part of the country. We crossed the large plain that lies to the eastward of the town, which
is entirely a white sand, like that commonly found on beaches, and produces only heath, and
other small plants of various sorts. At five in the afternoon we passed a large farm-house,
with some corn-fields, and pretty considerable vineyards, situated beyond the plain, near the
foot of some low hills, where the soil becomes worth cultivating. Between six and seven we
arrived at Stellenbosh, the colony next to that of the Cape for its importance.

"The village does not consist of more than thirty houses, and stands at the foot of the range
of lofty mountains, above twenty miles to the eastward of the Cape Town. The houses are neat;
and, with the advantage of a rivulet which runs near, and the shelter of some large oaks, planted
at its first settling, forms what may be called a rural prospect in this desert country. There
are some vineyards and orchards about the place, which, from their thriving appearance, seem
to indicate an excellent soil; though, perhaps, they owe much to climate, as the air here has
an uncommon serenity.

"I employed the next day in searching for plants and insects about Stellenbosh, but had little
success. Few plants are in flower here at this season, and insects but scarce. I examined the
soil in several places, and found it to consist of yellowish clay, mixed with a good deal of
sand. The sides of the low hills, which appear brown, seem to be constituted of a sort of stone
marl.

"We left Stellenbosh next morning, and soon arrived at the house we had passed on Saturday;
the owner of which, Mr Cloeder, had sent us an invitation the evening before to visit him.
This gentleman entertained us with the greatest hospitality, and in a manner very different
from what we expected. He received us with music, and a band also played while we were at dinner;
which, considering the situation of the place, might be reckoned elegant. He shewed us his
wine-cellars, his orchards, and vineyards; all which, I must own, inspired me with a wish to
know in what manner these industrious people could create such plenty, in a spot where, I believe,
no other European nation would have attempted to settle.

"In the afternoon we crossed the country, and passed a few plantations, one of which seemed
very considerable, and was laid out in a taste somewhat different from any other we saw. In
the evening we arrived at a farm-house, which is the first in the cultivated tract called the
Pearl. We had, at the same time, a view of Drakenstein, the third colony of this country, which
lies along by the foot of the lofty hills already mentioned, and contains several farms or
plantations, not very extensive.

"I went, on the 19th in the forenoon, in quest of plants and insects, which I found almost
as scarce as at Stellenbosh; but I met with more shrubs or small trees, naturally produced,
in the valleys, than in any part of the country I had hitherto seen.

"In the afternoon we went to see a stone of a remarkable size, called by the inhabitants the
Tower of Babylon, or the Pearl Diamond.[88] It lies, or stands, upon the top of some low hills,
at the foot of which our farm-house was situated; and though the road to it is neither very
steep nor rugged, we were above an hour and a half in walking to it. It is of an oblong shape,
rounded on the top, and lies nearly S. and N. The E. and W. sides are steep, and almost perpendicular.
The S. end is likewise steep, and its greatest height is there; from whence it declines gently
to the N. part, by which we ascended to its top, and had an extensive view of the whole country.

[Footnote 88: In the Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxviii, part i. p. 102, we have a letter
from Mr Anderson to Sir John Pringle, describing this remarkable stone. The account sent home
from the Cape, and read before the Royal Society, is much the same with that now published,
but rather fuller. In particular, he tells Sir John, that he went to see it at Mr Masson's
desire, who probably had not had an opportunity of sufficiently examining it himself. In the
account of his journies above referred to, p. 270, he only says, "there are two large solid
rocks on the Perel Berg, each of which (he believes) is more than a mile in circumference at
the base, and upwards of 200 feet high. Their surfaces are nearly smooth, without chink or
fissures; and they are found to be a species of granite, different from that which composes
the neighbouring mountains."

Mr Anderson having, with his letter to Sir John Pringle, also sent home a specimen of the rock,
it was examined by Sir William Hamilton, whose opinion is, that "this singular, immense fragment
of granite, most probably has been raised by a volcanic explosion, or some such cause." See
his Letter to Sir John Pringle, annexed to Mr Anderson's, in the Philosophical Transactions.--D.]

"Its circumference, I think, must be at least half a mile, as it took us above half an hour
to walk round it, including every allowance for the bad road, and stopping a little. At its
highest part, which is the S. end, comparing it with a known object, it seems to equal the
dome of St Paul's church. It is one uninterrupted mass of stone, if we except some fissures,
or rather impressions, not above three or four feet deep, and a vein which runs across near
its N. end. It is of that sort of stone called, by mineralogists, Saxum conglutinatum, and
consists chiefly of pieces of coarse quartz and glimmer, held together by a clayey cement.
But the vein which crosses it, though of the same materials, is much compacter. This vein is
not above a foot broad or thick; and its surface is cut into little squares or oblongs, disposed
obliquely, which makes it look like the remains of some artificial work. But I could not observe
whether it penetrated far into the large rock, or was only superficial. In descending, we found
at its foot a very rich black mould; and on the sides of the hills some trees of a considerable
size, natives of the place, which are a species of olea.[89]

[Footnote 89: "It is strange that neither Kolben nor de la Caille should have thought the Tower
of Babylon worthy of a particular description. The former [vol. ii. p. 52, 53, English translation]
only mentions it as a high mountain. The latter contents himself with telling us, that it is
a very low hillock, un tres bas monticule. Voyage de la Caille, p. 341. We are much obliged
to Mr Anderson for his very accurate account of this remarkable rock, which agrees with Mr
Sonnerat's, who was at the Cape of Good Hope so late as 1781. His words are, "La Montagne de
la Perle, merite d'être observée. C'est un des plus hautes des environs du Cap. Elle n'est
composée que d'un seul bloc de granit crevassé dans plusieurs endroits." Voyage aux Indes,
tom. ii. p. 91.

Mr Sonnerat tells us, that Mr Gordon, commander of the troops at the Cape, had lately made
three journies up the country, from which, when he publishes his journal, we may expect much
curious information.--D.]

"In the morning of the 20th we set out from the Pearl; and going a different road from that
by which we came, passed through a country wholly uncultivated, till we got to the Tiger hills,
when some tolerable corn-fields appeared. At noon we stopped in a hollow for refreshment, but,
in walking about here, were plagued with a vast number of musquitoes or sand-flies, which were
the first I saw in the country. In the afternoon we set out again, and in the evening arrived
at the Cape Town, tired with the jolting waggon."

On the 23d we got on board the observatory, clock, &c. By a mean of the several results of
the equal altitudes of the sun, taken with the astronomical quadrant, the astronomical clock
was found to lose on sidereal time, 1' 8",368 each day. The pendulum was kept at the same length
as at Greenwich, where the daily loss of the clock on sidereal time was 4".

The watch, by the mean of the results of fifteen days observations, was found to be losing
2",261, on mean time, each day, which is 1",052 more than at Greenwich; and on the 21st, at
noon, she was too slow for mean time by 1'h 20' 57",66. From this 6' 48",956 is to be subtracted,
for what she was too slow on the 11th of June at Greenwich, and her daily rate since; and the
remainder, viz. 1° 14' 8",704, or 18° 32' 10", will be the longitude of the Cape Town by the
watch. Its true longitude, as found by Messrs Masson and Dixon, is 18° 23' 15". As our observations
were made about half a mile to the E. of theirs, the error of the watch in longitude is no
more than 8' 25". Hence we have reason to conclude, that she had gone well all the way from
England, and that the longitude, thus given, may be nearer the truth than any other.

If this be admitted, it will, in a great measure, enable me to find the direction and strength
of the currents we met with on this passage from England. For, by comparing the latitude and
longitude by dead reckoning with those by observation and the watch, we shall, from time to
time, have, very accurately, the error of the ship's reckoning, be the cause what it will.
But as all imaginable care was taken in heaving, and keeping the log, and every necessary allowance
made for lee-way, heave of the sea, and other such circumstances, I cannot attribute those
errors that did happen to any other cause but currents; but more particularly when the error
was constantly the same way for several days successively.

On the contrary, if we find the ship a-head of the reckoning on one day, and a-stern of it
on another, we have reason to believe that such errors are owing to accidental causes, and
not to currents. This seems to have been the case in our passage between England and Teneriffe.
But, from the time of our leaving that island, till the 15th of August, being then in the latitude
of 12° N. and longitude 24° W. the ship was carried 1° 20' of longitude to the westward of
her reckoning. At this station the currents took a contrary direction, and set to E.S.E. at
the rate of twelve or fourteen miles a day, or twenty-four hours, till we arrived into the
latitude of 5° N. and longitude of 20° W.; which was our most easterly situation after leaving
the Cape de Verde Islands till we got to the southward. For in this situation the wind came
southerly, and we tacked and stretched to the westward; and, for two or three days, could not
find that our reckoning was affected by any current. So that I judged we were between the current
that generally, if not constantly, sets to the east upon the coast of Guinea, and that which
sets to the west toward the coast of Brazil. This westerly current was not considerable till
we got into 2° N. and 25° W. From this station to 3° S. and 30° W. the ship, in the space of
four days, was carried 115 miles in the direction of S.W. by W. beyond her reckoning; an error
by far too great to have any other cause but a strong current running in the same direction.
Nor did its strength abate here; but its course was afterward more westerly, and to the N.
of W., and off Cape Augustine N. as I have already mentioned. But this northerly current did
not exist at twenty or thirty leagues to the southward of that Cape, nor any other, that I
could perceive, in the remaining part of the passage. The little difference we afterward found
between the reckoning and observations, might very well happen without the assistance of currents,
as will appear by the table of Day's Works.[90]

[Footnote 90: The curious reader will find some interesting, though not decisive, remarks concerning
the currents of the Atlantic Ocean in Clerke's Prog. of Mar. Disc. vol. i. p. 358.--E.]

In the accounts of my last voyage, I remarked, that the currents one meets with in his passage
generally balance each other. It happened so then, because we crossed the Line about 20° more
to the eastward than we did now; so that we were, of consequence, longer under the influence
of the easterly current, which made up for the westerly one. And this, I apprehend, will generally
be the case, if you cross the Line 10° or 15° to the E. of the meridian of St Jago.

From these remarks I shall draw the following conclusion, that after passing the Cape de Verde
Islands, if you do not make above 4° or 5° easting, and cross the Line in, or to the westward
of, the meridian of St Jago, you may expect to find your ship 3° or 4° to the westward of her
reckoning by the time you get into the latitude of 10° S. If, on the other hand, you keep well
to the E. and cross the Line 15° or 20° to the E. of St Jago, you will be then as much to the
E. of your reckoning; and the more you keep to the eastward, the greater will be your error,
as has been experienced by some India ships, whose people have found themselves close upon
the coast of Angola, when they thought its distance was above 200 leagues.

During the whole of our passage from England, no opportunity was omitted of observing, with
all the attention and accuracy that circumstances would permit, the variation of the compass,
which I have inserted in a table, with the latitude and longitude of the ship at the time of
observation. As the longitude may be depended upon, to a quarter or half a degree at most,
this table will be of use to those navigators who correct their reckoning by the variation.
It will also enable Mr Dun to correct his new Variation Chart, a thing very much wanted.

It seems strange to me, that the advocates for the variation should not agree amongst themselves.
Another, in his chart,[92] lays down this variation ninety leagues to the westward of them.
Such a disagreement as this, is a strong proof of the uncertainty of both. However, I have
no doubt the former found here, as well as in other places, the variation he mentions. But
he should have considered, that at sea, nay even on land, the results of the most accurate
observations will not always be the same. Different compasses will give different variations;
and even the same compass will differ from itself two degrees, without our being able to discover,
much less to remove, the cause.

[Footnote 91: Nichelson.]

[Footnote 92: Mr Dun.]

Whoever imagines he can find the variation within a degree, will very often see himself much
deceived. For, besides the imperfection which may be in the construction of the instrument,
or in the power of the needle, it is certain that the motion of the ship, or attraction of
the iron-work, or some other cause not yet discovered, will frequently occasion far greater
errors than this. That the variation may be found, with a share of accuracy more than sufficient
to determine the ship's course, is allowed; but that it can be found so exactly as to fix the
longitude within a degree, or sixty miles, I absolutely deny.[93]

[Footnote 93: Few readers, it is presumed, require to be informed, that the mode of endeavouring
to ascertain the longitude by the variation of the compass is no longer in use. In a work already
referred to, Clerke's Prog. of Mar. Disc., a singular enough communication is inserted respecting
the effect of tallow on the compass. It is subscribed by Lieutenant Mason of the marines; but
whether the experiments it relates have been repeated by others, or if the inference it maintains
has been otherwise confirmed, the writer has yet to learn. He thought it right, however, to
notice it, as the more extensively hints are spread which concern the advancement of useful
discovery, the greater chance we have of correcting errors, and perfecting science, The same
reason justifies his remarking, that the most important observations respecting the variation
of the compass made of late years, are those of Captain Flinders, as to the effect of the ship's
course upon it. The reader will find them in the appendix to the account of his voyage lately
published, 2d volume. Similar observations have still more recently been made by an officer
on board his majesty's ship Sibyl, while in the North Sea protecting our Greenland fishery.
They form an appendix to the Account of a Voyage to Spitzbergen, by Mr John Laing, Surgeon,
published at Edinburgh, 1815. Of their importance and accuracy, notwithstanding the small scale
on which they were made, and the meagre manner in which they have been communicated, it is
impossible for a moment to doubt. The concluding remark is entitled to considerable regard.--"After
a more enlarged series of observations shall have been taken, and after the attention of astronomers
is directed to this fact, one may confidently expect a most important improvement in the science
of navigation." The value of the discovery alluded to, will at once appear from what is said
in the way of enquiry as to similar observations to those made in the North Sea applying to
ships coming from the Baltic, viz. that if so, "they most effectually account for ships getting
down on the coast of Holland, when they suppose themselves well over in Mid-channel; and therefore
prove the loss of so many of our brave tars when coming from that sea."--P. 163.

After the disaster which happened to our sheep, it may be well supposed that I did not trust
those that remained long on shore, but got them and the other cattle on board as fast as possible.
I also added to my original stock by purchasing two young bulls, two heifers, two young stone-horses,
two mares, two rams, several ewes and goats, and some rabbits and poultry.

All of them were intended for New Zealand, Otaheite, and the neighbouring islands, or any other
places in the course of our voyage, where there might be a prospect that the leaving any of
them would be useful to posterity.

Toward the latter end of November the caulkers had finished their work on board the Discovery,
and she had received all her provisions and water. Of the former, both ships had a sufficient
supply for two years and upward. And every other article we could think of, necessary for such
a voyage, that could be had at the Cape, was procured; neither knowing when, nor where, we
might come to a place where we could furnish ourselves so well.

Having given Captain Clerke a copy of my instructions, and an order directing him how to proceed
in case of separation, in the morning of the 30th we repaired on board. At five in the afternoon
a breeze sprung up at S.E. with which we weighed, and stood out of the bay. At nine it fell
calm, and we anchored between Penguin Island and the east shore, where we lay till three o'clock
next morning. We then weighed and put to sea, with a light breeze at S., but did not get clear
of the land till the morning of the 3d, when, with a fresh gale at W.N.W. we stood to the S.E.
to get more into the way of these winds.

On the 5th a sudden squall of wind carried away the Resolution's mizen top-mast. Having another
to replace it, the loss was not felt, especially as it was a bad stick, and had often complained.
On the 6th, in the evening, being then in the latitude of 39° 14' S. and in the longitude of
25° 56' E., we passed through several small spots of water of a reddish colour. Some of this
was taken up, and it was found to abound with a small animal, which the microscope discovered
to be like a cray-fish, of a reddish hue.

We continued our course to the S.E. with a very strong gale from the westward, followed by
a mountainous sea, which made the ship roll and tumble exceedingly, and gave us a great deal
of trouble to preserve the cattle we had on board. Notwithstanding all our care, several goats,
especially the males, died, and some sheep. This misfortune was, in a great measure, owing
to the cold, which we now began most sensibly to feel.

On the 12th, at noon, we saw land extending from S.E. by S. to S.E. by E. Upon a nearer approach
we found it to be two islands. That which lies most to the south, and is also the largest,
I judged to be about fifteen leagues in circuit, and to be in the latitude of 46° 53' S. and
in the longitude of 37° 46' E. The most northerly one is about nine leagues in circuit, and
lies in the latitude of 46° 40' S. and in 38° 8' E. longitude. The distance from the one to
the other is about five leagues.

We passed through this channel at equal distance from both islands; and could not discover,
with the assistance of our best glasses, either tree or shrub on either of them. They seemed
to have a rocky and bold shore; and, excepting the S.E. parts, where the land is rather low
and flat, a surface composed of barren mountains, which rise to a considerable height, and
whose summits and sides were covered with snow, which in many places seemed to be of a considerable
depth. The S.E. parts had a much greater quantity on them than the rest, owing, probably, to
the sun acting for a less space of time on these than on the N. and N.W. parts. The ground,
where it was not hid by the snow, from the various shades it exhibited, may be supposed to
be covered with moss, or perhaps such a coarse grass as is found in some parts of Falkland's
Islands. On the N. side of each of the islands is a detached rock; that near the S. island
is shaped like a tower, and seemed to be at some distance from the shore. As we passed along,
a quantity of seaweed was seen, and the colour of the water indicated soundings. But there
was no appearance of an inlet, unless near the rock just mentioned; and that, from its smallness,
did not promise a good anchoring-place.

These two islands, as also four others which lie from nine to twelve degrees of longitude more
to the E. and nearly in the same latitude, were discovered, as I have mentioned in my late
voyage,[94] by Captains Marion du Fresne and Crozet, French navigators, in January, 1772, on
their passage in two ships from the Cape of Good Hope to the Philippine Islands. As they have
no names in the French chart of the southern hemisphere, which Captain Grozet communicated
to me in 1775,[95] I shall distinguish the two we now saw by calling them Prince Edward's Islands,
after his majesty's fourth son; and the other four, by the name of Marion's and Crozet's Islands,
to commemorate their discoverers.

[Footnote 94: Captain Cook's second voyage. These islands are said to be in the latitude of
48° S.; that is, 2° farther S. than what here appears to be their real position.--D.]

[Footnote 95: See Cook's voyage, as above. Dr. Forster, in his Observations made during that
Voyage, p. 30, gives us this description of the chart then communicated by Monsieur Crozet;
that it was "published under the patronage of the Duke de Croye, by Robert de Vaugondy." Captain
Cook tells us, lower in this chapter, that it was published in 1773.--D.]

We had now, for the most part, strong gales between the N. and W., and but very indifferent
weather; not better, indeed, than we generally have in England in the very depth of winter,
though it was now the middle of summer in this hemisphere. Not discouraged, however, by this,
after leaving Prince Edward's Islands, I shaped our course to pass to the southward of the
others, that I might get into the latitude of the land discovered by Monsieur de Kerguelen.

I had applied to the Chevalier de Borda whom, as I have mentioned, I found at Teneriffe, requesting,
that if he knew any thing of the island discovered by Monsieur de Kerguelen, between the Cape
of Good Hope and New Holland, he would be so obliging as to communicate it to me. Accordingly,
just before we sailed from Santa Cruz Bay, he sent me the following account of it, viz. "That
the pilot of the Boussole, who was in the voyage with Monsieur de Kerguelen, had given him
the latitude and longitude of a little island, which Monsieur de Kerguelen called the Isle
of Rendezvous, and which lies not far from the great island which he saw. Latitude of the little
isle, by seven observations, 48° 26' S.; longitude, by seven observations of the distance of
the sun and moon, 64° 57' E. from Paris," I was very sorry I had not sooner known that there
was on board the frigate at Teneriffe, an officer who had been with Monsieur de Kerguelen,
especially the pilot; because from him I might have obtained more interesting information about
this land than the situation alone, of which I was not before entirely ignorant.[96]

[Footnote 96: Captain Cook's proceedings, as related in the remaining part of this chapter,
and in the next, being upon a coast newly discovered by the French, it could not but be an
object of his attention to trace the footsteps of the original explorers. But no superiority
of professional skill, nor diligence in exerting it, could possibly qualify him to do this
successfully, without possessing, at the same time, full and authentic intelligence of all
that had been performed here by his predecessors in the discovery. But that he was not so fortunate
as to be thus sufficiently instructed, will appear from the following facts, which the reader
is requested to attend to, before he proceeds to the perusal of this part of the journal.

How very little was known, with any precision, about the operations of Kerguelen, when Captain
Cook sailed in 1776, may be inferred from the following paragraph of his instructions:--"You
are to proceed in search of some islands said to have been lately seen by the French in the
latitude of 48° S., and in the meridian of the Mauritius." This was, barely, the amount of
the very indefinite and imperfect information, which Captain Cook himself had received from
Baron Plettenberg at the Cape of Good Hope, in November 1772; in the beginning of which year
Kerguelen's first voyage had taken place.

The captain, on his return homeward, in March 1775, heard, a second time, something about this
French discovery at the Cape, where he met with Monsieur Crozet, who very obligingly communicated
to him a chart of the southern hemisphere, wherein were delineated not only his own discoveries,
but also that of Captain Kerguelen. But what little information that chart could convey, was
still necessarily confined to the operations of the first voyage; the chart here referred to,
having been published in France in 1773, that is, before any intelligence could possibly be
conveyed from the southern hemisphere of the result of Kerguelen's second visit to this new
land, which, we now know, happened towards the close of the same year.

What Crozet had not communicated to our author, and what we are sure, from a variety of circumstances,
he had never heard of from any other quarter, he missed an opportunity of learning at Teneriffe.
He expressed his being sorry, as we have just read, that he did not know sooner that there
was on board the frigate an officer who had been with Kerguelen, as he might have obtained
from him more interesting information about this land, than its situation. And, indeed, if
he had conversed with that officer, he might have obtained information more interesting than
he was aware of; he might have learnt that Kerguelen had actually visited this southern land
a second time, and that the little isle of which he then received the name and position from
the Chevalier de Borda, was a discovery of this later voyage. But the account conveyed to him,
being, as the reader will observe, unaccompanied with any date, or other distinguishing circumstance,
he left Teneriffe, and arrived on the coasts of Kerguelen's Land, under a full persuasion that
it had been visited only once before. And, even with regard to the operations of that first
voyage, he had nothing to guide him, but the very scanty materials afforded to him by Baron
Plettenberg and Monsieur Crozet.

The truth is, the French seem, for some reason or other, not surely founded on the importance
of Kerguelen's discovery, to have been very shy of publishing a full and distinct account of
it. No such account had been published while Captain Cook lived. Nay, even after the return
of his ships in 1780, the gentleman who obligingly lent his assistance to give a view of the
prior observations of the French, and to connect them on the same chart with those of our author,
though his assiduity in procuring geographical information can be equalled only by his readiness
in communicating it, had not, it should seem, been able to procure any materials for that purpose,
but such as mark the operations of the first French voyage; and even for these, he was indebted
to a MS. drawing.

But this veil of unnecessary secrecy is at length drawn aside. Kerguelen himself has published
the journal of his proceedings in two successive voyages, in the years 1772 and 1773; and has
annexed to his narrative a chart of the coasts of this land, as far as he had explored them
in both voyages. Monsieur de Pagès, also, much about the same time, favoured us with another
account of the second voyage, in some respects fuller than Kerguelen's own, on board whose
ship he was then an officer.

From these sources of authentic information, we are enabled to draw every necessary material
to correct what is erroneous, and to illustrate what, otherwise, would have remained obscure,
in this part of Captain Cook's journal. We shall take occasion to do this in separate notes
on the passages as they occur, and conclude this tedious, but, it is hoped, not unnecessary,
detail of facts, with one general remark, fully expressive of the disadvantages our author
laboured under. He never saw that part of the coast upon which the French had been in 1772;
and he never knew that they had been upon another part of it in 1773, which was the very scene
of his own operations. Consequently, what he knew of the former voyage, as delineated upon
Crozet's chart, only served to perplex and mislead his judgment; and his total ignorance of
the latter, put it out of his power to compare his own observations with those then made by
Kerguelen; though we, who are better instructed, can do this, by tracing the plainest marks
of coincidence and agreement.--D.]

My instructions directing me to examine it, with a view to discover a good harbour, I proceeded
in the search; and on the 16th, being then in the latitude of 48° 45', and in the longitude
of 52° E., we saw penguins and divers, and rock-weed floating in the sea. We continued to meet
with more or less of these every day, as we proceeded to the eastward; and on the 21st, in
the latitude of 48° 27' S., and in the longitude of 65° E., a very large seal was seen. We
had now much foggy weather, and as we expected to fall in with the land every hour, our navigation
became both tedious and dangerous.

At length, on the 24th, at six o'clock in the morning, as we were steering to the eastward,
the fog clearing away a little, we saw land,[97] bearing S.S.E., which, upon a nearer approach,
we found to be an island of considerable height, and about three leagues in circuit.[98] Soon
after, we saw another of the same magnitude, one league to the eastward;[99] and between these
two, in the direction of S.E., some smaller ones.[100] In the direction of S. by E. 1/2 E.,
from the E. end of the first island, a third[101] high island was seen. At times, as the fog
broke away, we had the appearance of land over the small islands; and I had thoughts of steering
for it, by running in between them. But, on drawing nearer, I found this would be a dangerous
attempt, while the weather continued foggy. For if there should be no passage, or if we should
meet with any sudden danger, it would have been impossible for us to get off; the wind being
right a-stern, and a prodigious sea running, that broke on all the shores in a frightful surf.
At the same time, seeing another island in the N.E. direction, and not knowing but that their
might be more, I judged it prudent to haul off, and wait for clearer weather, lest we should
get entangled amongst unknown lands in a thick fog.

[Footnote 97: Captain Cook was not the original discoverer of these small islands which he
now fell in with. It is certain that they had been seen and named by Kerguelen, on his second
voyage, in December 1773. Their position, relatively to each other, and to the adjoining coasts
of the greater land, bears a striking resemblance to Kerguelen's delineation of them; whose
chart, however, the public may be assured, was unknown in England till after that accompanying
the account of this third voyage had been engraved.--D.]

[Footnote 98: This is the isle to which Kerguelen gave the name of Croy, or Crouy. Besides
delineating it upon his chart, he has added a particular view of it, exactly corresponding
with Captain Cook's account of its being of considerable height.--D.]

[Footnote 99: Kerguelen called this Isle Rolland, after the name of his own ship. There is
also a particular view of it on the French chart.--D.]

[Footnote 100: The observations of the French and English navigators agree exactly as to the
position of these smaller isles.--D.]

[Footnote 101: The situation of Kerguelen's Isle de Clugny, as marked on this chart, shews
it to be the third high island seen by Captain Cook.--D.]

We did but just weather the island last mentioned. It is a high round rock, which was named
Bligh's Cap. Perhaps this is the same that Monsieur de Kerguelen called the Isle of Rendezvous;[102]
but I know nothing that can rendezvous at it, but fowls of the air; for it is certainly inaccessible
to every other animal.

[Footnote 102: This isle, or rock, was the single point about which Captain Cook had received
the least information at Teneriffe; and we may observe how sagacious he was in tracing it.
What he could only speak of as probable, a comparison of his chart with that lately published
by Kerguelen, proves to be certain; and if he had even read and copied what his predecessor
in the discovery says of it, he could scarcely have varied his account of its shape. Kerguelen's
words are, "Isle de Reunion, qui n'est qu'une Roche, nous servoit de Rendezvous, ou de point
de ralliement; et ressemble à un coin de mire."--D.]

At eleven o'clock the weather began to clear up, and we immediately tacked, and steered in
for the land. At noon, we had a pretty good observation, which enabled us to determine the
latitude of Bligh's Cap, which is the northernmost island, to be 48° 29' S., and its longitude
68° 40' E.'[103] We passed it at three o'clock, standing to the S.S.E., with a fresh gale at W.

[Footnote 103: The French and English agree very nearly (as might be expected) in their accounts
of the latitude of this island; but the observations by which they fix its longitude vary considerably.
The pilot at Teneriffe made it only 64° 57' E. from Paris, which is about 67° 16' E. from London;
or 1° 24' more westerly than Captain Cook's observations fix it. Monsieur de Pagès says it
is 66° 47' E. from Paris, that is, 69° 6' E. from London, or twenty-six miles more easterly
than it is placed by Captain Cook. Kerguelen himself only says that it is about 68° of E. longitude,
par 68° de longitude.--D.]

Soon after we saw the land, of which we had a faint view in the morning; and at four o'clock
it extended from S.E. 1/2 E., to S.W. by S., distant about four miles. The left extreme, which
I judged to be the northern point of this land, called, in the French chart of the southern
hemisphere, Cape St Louis,[104] terminated in a perpendicular rock of a considerable height;
and the right one (near which is a detached rock) in a high indented point.[105] From this
point the coast seemed to turn short round to the southward, for we could see no land to the
westward of the direction in which it now bore to us, but the islands we had observed in the
morning; the most southerly[106] of them lying nearly W. from the point, about two or three
leagues distant.

[Footnote 104: Hitherto, we have only had occasion to supply defects, owing to Captain Cook's
entire ignorance of Kerguelen's second voyage in 1773; we must now correct errors, owing to
his very limited knowledge of the operations of the first voyage in 1772. The chart of the
southern hemisphere, his only guide, having given him, as he tells us, the name of Cape St
Louis (or Cape Louis) as the most northerly promontory then seen by the French; and his own
observations now satisfying him that no part of the main land stretched farther north than
the left extreme now before him; from this supposed similarity of situation, he judged that
his own perpendicular rock must be the Cape Louis of the first discoverers. By looking upon
the chart originally published with this voyage, we shall find Cape Louis lying upon a different
part of the coast; and by comparing this chart with that published by Kerguelen, it will appear,
in the clearest manner, that the northern point now described by Captain Cook, is the very
same to which the French have given the name of Cape Francois--D.]

[Footnote 105: This right extreme of the coast, as it now shewed itself to Captain Cook, seems
to be what is represented on Kerguelen's chart under the name of Cape Aubert. It may be proper
to observe here, that all that extent of coast lying between Cape Louis and Cape Francois,
of which the French saw very little during their first visit in 1772, and may be called the
N.W. side of this land, they had it in their power to trace the position of in 1773, and have
assigned names to some of its bays, rivers, and promontories, upon their chart.--D.]

[Footnote 106: Kerguelen's Isle de Clugny.--D.]

About the middle of the land there appeared to be an inlet, for which we steered; but, on approaching,
found it was a bending in the coast, and therefore bore up, to go round Cape St Louis.[107]
Soon after, land opened off the cape, in the direction of S. 53° E., and appeared to be a point
at a considerable distance; for the trending of the coast from the cape was more southerly.
We also saw several rocks and islands to the eastward of the above directions, the most distant
of which was about seven leagues from the cape, bearing S. 88° E.[108] We had no sooner got
off the cape, than we observed the coast, to the southward, to be much indented by projecting
points and bays; so that we now made sure of soon finding a good harbour. Accordingly, we had
not run a mile farther, before we discovered one behind the cape, into which we began to ply;
but after making one board, it fell calm, and we anchored at the entrance in forty-five fathoms
water, the bottom black sand; as did the Discovery soon after. I immediately dispatched Mr
Bligh, the master, in a boat to sound the harbour; who, on his return, reported it to be safe
and commodious, with good anchorage in every part; and great plenty of fresh-water, seals,
penguins, and other birds on the shore; but not a stick of wood. While we lay at anchor, we
observed that the flood tide came from the S.E., running two knots, at least, in an hour.

[Footnote 107: Cape François, as already observed.--D.]

[Footnote 108: The observations of the French, round Cape François, remarkably coincide with
Captain Cook's in this paragraph; and the rocks and islands here mentioned by him, also appear
upon their chart.--D.]

At day-break, in the morning of the 25th, we weighed with a gentle breeze at W,; and having
wrought into the harbour, to within a quarter of a mile of the sandy beach at its head, we
anchored in eight fathoms water, the bottom a fine dark sand. The Discovery did not get in
till two o'clock in the afternoon, when Captain Clerke informed me, that he had narrowly escaped
being driven on the S. point of the harbour, his anchor having started before they had time
to shorten in the cable. This obliged them to set sail, and drag the anchor after them, till
they had room to heave it up, and then they found one of its palms was broken off.

As soon as we had anchored, I ordered all the boats to be hoisted out, the ship to be moored
with a kedge-anchor, and the water-casks to be got ready to send on shore. In the mean time
I landed, to look for the most convenient spot where they might be filled, and to see what
else the place afforded.

I found the shore, in a manner, covered with penguins and other birds, and seals. These latter
were not numerous, but so insensible of fear, (which plainly indicated that they were unaccustomed
to such visitors,) that we killed as many as we chose, for the sake of their fat, or blubber,
to make oil for our lamps, and other uses. Fresh water was in no less plenty than were birds;
for every gully afforded a large stream. But not a single tree, or shrub, nor the least sign
of any, was to be discovered, and but very little herbage of any sort. The appearances, as
we sailed into the harbour, had flattered us with the hope of meeting with something considerable
growing here, as we observed the sides of many of the hills to be of a lively green. But I
now found that this was occasioned by a single plant, which, with the other natural productions,
shall be described in another place. Before I returned to my ship, I ascended the first ridge
of rocks, which rise in a kind of amphitheatre above one another. I was in hopes, by this means,
of obtaining a view of the country; but before I reached the top, there came on so thick a
fog, that I could hardly find my way down again. In the evening, we hauled the seine at the
head of the harbour, but caught only half a dozen small fish. We had no better success next
day, when we tried with hook and line. So that our only resource here, for fresh provisions,
were birds, of which there was an inexhaustible store.

The morning of the 26th proved foggy, with rain. However, we went to work to fill water, and
to cut grass for our cattle, which we found in small spots near the head of the harbour. The
rain which fell swelled all the rivulets to such a degree, that the sides of the hills, bounding
the harbour, seemed to be covered with a sheet of water. For the rain, as it fell, run into
the fissures and crags of the rocks that composed the interior parts of the hills, and was
precipitated down their sides in prodigious torrents.

The people having wrought hard the two preceding days, and nearly completed our water, which
we filled from a brook at the left corner of the beach, I allowed them the 27th as a day of
rest, to celebrate Christmas. Upon this indulgence, many of them went on shore, and made excursions,
in different directions, into the country, which they found barren and desolate in the highest
degree. In the evening, one of them brought to me a quart bottle which he had found, fastened
with some wire to a projecting rock on the north side of the harbour. This bottle contained
a piece of parchment, on which was written the following inscription:

   Ludovico XV. Galliarum
   rege, et d.[109] de Boynes
   regi a Secretis ad res
   maritimas annis 1772 et
   1773.

[Footnote 109: The (d.), no doubt, is a contraction of the word Domino. The French secretary
of the marine was then Monsieur de Boynes.--D.]

From this inscription, it is clear, that we were not the first Europeans who had been in this
harbour. I supposed it to be left by Monsieur de Boisguehenneu, who went on shore in a boat
on the 13th of February, 1772, the same day that Monsieur de Kerguelen discovered this land,
as appears by a note in the French chart of the southern hemisphere, published the following
year.[110]

[Footnote 110: On perusing this paragraph of the journal, it will be natural to ask, How could
Monsieur de Boisguehenneu, in the beginning of 1772, leave an inscription, which, upon the
very face of it, commemorates a transaction of the following year? Captain Cook's manner of
expressing himself here, strongly marks, that he made this supposition, only for want of information
to enable him to make any other. He had no idea that the French had visited this land a second
time; and, reduced to the necessity of trying to accommodate what he saw himself, to what little
he had heard of their proceedings, he confounds a transaction which we, who have been better
instructed, know, for a certainty, belongs to the second voyage, with a similar one, which
his chart of the southern hemisphere has recorded, and which happened in a different year,
and at a different place.

The bay, indeed, in which Monsieur de Boisguehenneu landed, is upon the west side of this land,
considerably to the south of Cape Louis, and not far from another more southerly promontory,
called Cape Bourbon; a part of the coast which our ships were not upon. Its situation is marked
upon the chart constructed for this voyage; and a particular view of the bay du Lion Marin,
(for so Boisguehenneu called it,) with the soundings, is preserved by Kerguelen.

But if the bottle and inscription found by Captain Cook's people were not left here by Boisguehenneu,
by whom and when were they left? This we learn most satisfactorily, from the accounts of Kerguelen's
second voyage, as published by himself and Monsieur de Pagès, which present us with the following
particulars:--"That they arrived on the west side of this land on the 14th of December, 1773;
that steering to the N.E., they discovered, on the 16th, the Isle de Reunion, and the other
small islands as mentioned above; that, on the 17th, they had before them the principal land,
(which they were sure was connected with that seen by them on the 14th,) and a high point of
that land, named by them Cape François; that beyond this cape, the coast took a south-easterly
direction, and behind it they found a bay, called by them Baie de l'Oiseau, from the name of
their frigate; that they then endeavoured to enter it, but were prevented by contrary winds
and blowing weather, which drove them off the coast eastward; but that, at last, on the 6th
of January, Monsieur de Rosnevet, captain of the Oiseau, was able to send his boat on shore
into this bay, under the command of Monsieur de Rochegude, one of his officers, who took possession
of that bay, and of all the country, in the name of the King of France, with all the requisite
formalities."

Here then we trace, by the most unexceptionable evidence, the history of the bottle and inscription;
the leaving of which was, no doubt, one of the requisite formalities observed by Monsieur de
Rochegude on this occasion. And though he did not land till the 6th of January 1774, yet, as
Kerguelen's ships arrived upon the coast on the 14th of December 1773, and had discovered and
looked into this very bay on the 17th of that month, it was with the strictest propriety and
truth that 1773, and not 1774, was mentioned as the date of the discovery.

We need only look at Kerguelen's and Cook's charts, to judge that the Baie de l'Oiseau, and
the harbour where the French inscription was found, is one and the same place. But besides
this agreement as to the general position, the same conclusion results more decisively still,
from another circumstance worth mentioning: The French, as well as the English visitors of
this bay and harbour, have given us a particular plan of it; and whoever compares them, must
be struck with a resemblance that could only be produced by copying one common original with
fidelity. Nay, even the soundings are the same upon the same spots in both plans, being forty-five
fathoms between the two capes, before the entrance of the bay; sixteen fathoms farther in,
where the shores begin to contract; and eight fathoms up, near the bottom of the harbour.

To these particulars, which throw abundant light on this part of our author's journal, I shall
only add, that the distance of our harbour from that where Boisguehenneu landed in 1772, is
forty leagues. For this we have the authority of Kerguelen, in the following passage:--"Monsieur
de Boisguehenneu descendit le 13 de Fevrier 1772, dans un baie, qu'il nomme Baie du Lion Marin,
& prit possession de cette terre au nom de Roi; il n'y vit aucune trace d'habitants. Monsieur
de Rochegude, en 1774, a descendu dans un autre baie, que nous avons nommé Baie de l'Oiseau,
& cette seconde rade est à quarantes lieues de la premiere. Il en a également pris possession,
& il n'y trouva également aucune trace d'habitants." Kerguelen, p. 92.--D.]

As a memorial of our having been in this harbour, I wrote on the other side of the parchment,

   Naves Resolution
             et Discovery
   de Rege Magnae Britanniae,
           Decembris 1776.

I then put it again into a bottle, together with a silver two-penny piece of 1772; and having
covered the mouth of the bottle with a leaden cap, I placed it the next morning in a pile of
stones erected for the purpose, upon a little eminence on the north shore of the harbour, and
near to the place where it was first found, in which position it cannot escape the notice of
any European, whom chance or design may bring into this port. Here I displayed the British
flag, and named the place Christmas Harbour, from our having arrived in it on that festival.

It is the first or northernmost inlet that we meet with on the S.E. side of the Cape St Louis,[111]
which forms the N. side of the harbour, and is also the northern point of this land. The situation
alone is sufficient to distinguish it from any of the other inlets; and, to make it more remarkable,
its S. point terminates in a high rock, which is perforated quite through, so as to appear
like the arch of a bridge. We saw none like this upon the whole coast.[112] The harbour has
another distinguishing mark within, from a single stone or rock, of a vast size, which lies
on the top of a hill on the S. side, near its bottom; and opposite this, on the N. side, there
is another hill, much like it, but smaller. There is a small beach at its bottom, where we
commonly landed; and, behind it, some gently rising ground, on the top of which is a large
pool of fresh-water. The land on both sides of the inlet is high, and it runs in W., and W.N.W.,
about two miles. Its breadth is one mile and a quarter, for more than half its length, above
which it is only half a mile. The depth of water, which is forty-five fathoms at the entrance,
varies, as we proceed farther in, from thirty to five and four fathoms. The shores are steep;
and the bottom is every where a fine dark sand, except in some places close to the shore, where
there are beds of sea-weed, which always grows on rocky ground. The head of the harbour lies
open only to two points of the compass; and even these are covered by islands in the offing,
so that no sea can fall in to hurt a ship. The appearances on shore confirmed this; for we
found grass growing close to high-water mark, which is a sure sign of a pacific harbour.[113]
It is high-water here, at the full and change days, about ten o'clock; and the tide rises and
falls about four feet.

[Footnote 111: Cape François, for reasons already assigned.--D.]

[Footnote 112: If there could be the least doubt remaining, of the identity of the Baie de
l'Oiseau and Christmas Harbour, the circumstance of the perforated rock, which divides it from
another bay to the south, would amount to a strict demonstration. For Monsieur de Pagès had
observed this discriminating mark before Captain Cook. His words are as follows:--"L'on vit
que la cote de l'Est, voisine du Cap François, avoit deux baies; elles étoient separees par
une pointe très reconnoissable par sa forme, qui representoit une porte cochere, au travers
de laquelle l'on voyoit le jour."--Voyages du M. de Pagès, vol. ii. p. 67. Every one knows
how exactly the form of a porte cochere, or arched gateway, corresponds with that of the arch
of a bridge. It is very satisfactory to find the two navigators, neither of whom knew any thing
of the other's description, adopting the same idea; which both proves that they had the same
uncommon object before their eyes, and that they made an accurate report.--D.]

[Footnote 113: In the last note, we saw how remarkably Monsieur de Pagès and Captain Cook agree
about the appearance of the south point of the harbour; I shall here subjoin another quotation
from the former, containing his account of the harbour itself, in which the reader may trace
the same distinguishing features observed by Captain Cook in the foregoing paragraph.

"Le 6, l'on mit à terre dans la premiere baie à l'Est du Cap François, & l'on prit possession
de ces contrées. Ce mouillage consiste en une petite rade, qui a environs quatres encablures,
ou quatre cents toises de profondeur, sur un tiers en sus de largeur. En dedans de cette rade
est un petit port, dont l'entrée, de quatres encablures de largeur, presente au Sud-Est. La
sonde de la petite rade est depuis quarante-cinq jusqu'à trente brasses; et celle du port depuis
seize jusqu'à huit. Le fond des deux est de sable noir et vaseux. La cote des deux bords est
haute, & par une pente très rude; elle est couverte de verdure, & il y a une quantité prodigieuse
d'Outardes. Le fond du port est occupé par un monticule qui laisse entre lui, et la mer une
plage de sable. Une petite riviere, de très bonne eau, coule à la mer dans cet endroit; & elle
est fournie par un lac qui est un peu au loin, au dessus du monticule. Il y avoit sur le plage
beaucoup de pinguoins & de lions marins. Ces deux especes d'animaux ne fuyoient pas, & l'on
augura que le pays n'étoit point habité; la terre rapportoit de l'herbe large, noire, & bien
nourrie, qui n'avoit cependant que cinque pouces ou plus de hauteur. L'on ne vit aucun arbre,
ni signe l'habitation."--Voyage du Monsieur de Pagès, tom. ii. p. 69, 70.--D.]

After I had finished this business of the inscription, I went in my boat round the harbour,
and landed in several places, to examine what the shore afforded; and, particularly, to look
for drift wood. For, although the land here was totally destitute of trees, this might not
be the case in other parts; and if there were any, the torrents would force some, or, at least,
some branches, into the sea, which would afterward throw them upon the shores, as in all other
countries where there is wood, and in many where there is none: But throughout the whole extent
of the harbour, I found not a single piece.

In the afternoon, I went upon Cape St Louis,[114] accompanied by Mr King, my second lieutenant.
I was in hopes, from this elevation, to have had a view of the sea-coast, and of the islands
lying off it. But, when I got up, I found every distant object below me hid in a thick fog.
The land on the same plain, or of a greater height, was visible enough, and appeared naked
and desolate in the highest degree, except some hills to the southward, which were covered
with snow.

[Footnote 114: Cape François.--D.]

When I got on board, I found the launch hoisted in, the ships unmoored, and ready to put to
sea; but our sailing was deferred till five o'clock the next morning, when we weighed anchor.[115]

[Footnote 115: The reader is probably not a little wearied with Dr Douglas's minute comparisons
of Kerguelen's and Cook's accounts of the lands in question, which indeed seem unworthy of
so much concern.

As soon as the ships were out of Christmas Harbour, we steered S.E. 1/2 S., along the coast,
with a fine breeze at N.N.W., and clear weather. This we thought the more fortunate, as, for
some time past, fogs had prevailed, more or less, every day; and the continuance of them would
have defeated our plan of extending Kerguelen's discovery. We kept the lead constantly going;
but seldom struck ground with a line of fifty or sixty fathoms.

About seven or eight o'clock, we were off a promontory, which I called Cape Cumberland. It
lies a league and a half from the south point of Christmas Harbour, in the direction of S.E.
1/2 S. Between them is a bay with two arms, both of which seemed to afford good shelter for
shipping. Off Cape Cumberland is a small but pretty high island, on the summit of which is
a rock like a sentry-box, which occasioned our giving that name to the island. Two miles farther
to the eastward, lies a group of small islands and rocks, with broken ground about them: We
sailed between these and Sentry-Box Island, the channel being a full mile broad, and more than
forty fathoms deep; for we found no bottom with that length of line.

Being through this channel, we discovered, on the south side of Cape Cumberland, a bay, running
in three leagues to the westward. It is formed by this Cape to the north, and by a promontory
to the south, which I named Point Pringle, after my good friend Sir John Pringle, President
of the Royal Society. The bottom of this bay was called Cumberland Bay; and it seemed to be
disjoined from the sea, which washes the N.W. coast of this country, by a narrow neck of land.
Appearances, at least, favoured such a conjecture.

To the southward of Point Pringle, the coast is formed into a fifth bay; of which this point
is the northern extreme; and from it to the southern extreme, is about four miles in the direction
of S.S.E. 1/4 E. In this bay, which obtained the name of White Bay, on account of some white
spots of land or rocks in the bottom of it, are several lesser bays or coves, which seemed
to be sheltered from all winds. Off the south point are several rocks which raise their heads
above water; and, probably, many more than do that.

Thus far our course was in a direction parallel to the coast, and not more than two miles from
it. Thither our glasses were continually pointed; and we could easily see that, except the
bottoms of the bays and coves, which, for the most part, terminated in sandy beaches, the shores
were rocky, and, in many places, swarmed with birds; but the country had the same barren and
naked appearance as in the neighbourhood of Christmas Harbour.

We had kept, on our larboard bow, the land which first opened off Cape St Louis,[116] in the
direction of S. 53° E., thinking that it was an island, and that we should find a passage between
it and the main. We now discovered this to be a mistake; and found that it was a peninsula,
joined to the rest of the coast by a low isthmus. I called the bay, formed by this peninsula,
Repulse Bay; and a branch of it seemed to run a good way inland towards the S.S.W. Leaving
this, we steered for the northern point of the peninsula, which we named Howe's Foreland, in
honour of Admiral Lord Howe.

[Footnote 116: Cape François.]

As we drew near it, we perceived some rocks and breakers near the N.W. part; and two islands
a league and a half to the eastward of it, which, at first, appeared as one. I steered between
them and the Foreland;[117] and was in the middle of the channel by noon. At that time our
latitude, by observation, was 48° 51' S.; and we had made twenty-six miles of east longitude
from Cape St Louis.[118]

[Footnote 117: Though Kerguelen's ships, in 1773, did not venture to explore this part of the
coast, Monsieur de Pagès's account of it answers well to Captain Cook's. "Du 17 au 23, l'on
ne prit d'autre connoissance que celle de la figure de la cote, qui, courant d'abord au Sud-Est,
& revenant ensuite au Nord-Est, formoit un grand golfe. Il étoit occupé par des brisans & des
rochers; il avoit aussi une isle basse, & assez etendue, & l'on usa d'une bien soigneuse precaution,
pour ne pas s'affaler dans ce golfe."--Voyage du M. de Pagès, tom. ii. p. 67.--D.]

[Footnote 118: Cape François.]

From this situation, the most advanced land to the southward bore S.E.; but the trending of
the coast from the Foreland was more southerly. The islands which lie off Christmas Harbour
bore N.; and the north point of the Foreland N. 60° W., distant three miles. The land of this
Peninsula, or Foreland, is of a moderate height, and of a hilly and rocky substance. The coast
is low, with rocky points shooting out from it; between which points are little coves, with
sandy beaches; and these, at this time, were mostly covered with sea birds. We also saw upon
them some seals.

As soon as we were clear of the rocks and islands before mentioned, I gave orders to steer
S.E. by S. along the coast. But before these orders could be carried into execution, we discovered
the whole sea before us to be chequered with large beds of rock-weed, which we knew to be fast
to the bottom, and to grow on rocky shoals. I had often found a great depth of water on such
shoals; and I had, as often, found rocks that have raised their heads nearly to the surface
of the water. It is always dangerous, therefore, to sail over them before they are well examined;
but more especially, when there is no surge of the sea to discover the danger. This was the
case at present, for the sea was as smooth as a mill-pond. Consequently we endeavoured to avoid
them, by steering through the winding channels by which they were separated. We kept the lead
continually going; but never struck ground with a line of sixty fathoms. This circumstance
increased the danger, as we could not anchor, whatever necessity there might be for it. After
running in this manner above an hour, we discovered a lurking rock, just even with the surface
of the sea. It bore N.E. 1/2 E., distant three or four miles, and lay in the middle of one
of these large beds of weeds. This was a sufficient warning to make us use every precaution
to prevent our coming upon them.

We were now cross the mouth of a large bay, that lies about eight miles to the southward of
Howe's Foreland. In and before the entrance of this bay are several low islands, rocks, and
those beds of sea-weed. But there seemed to be winding channels between them. After continuing
our course half an hour longer, we were so much embarrassed with these shoals, that I resolved
to haul off to the eastward, as the likeliest means of extricating ourselves from the danger
that threatened us. But so far was this from answering the intended purpose, that it brought
us into more. I therefore found it absolutely necessary to secure the ships, if possible, in
some place before night; especially as the weather had now become hazy, and a fog was apprehended.
And seeing some inlets to the S.W. of us, I ordered Captain Clerke, as the Discovery drew less
water than the Resolution, to lead in for the shore; which was accordingly done.

In standing in, it was not possible to avoid running over the edges of some of the shoals,
on which we found from ten to twenty fathoms water; and the moment we were over, had no ground
at the depth of fifty fathoms. After making a few boards to weather a spit that run out from
an island on our lee, Captain Clerke made the signal for having discovered an harbour; in which,
about five o'clock, we anchored in fifteen fathoms water, over a bottom of fine dark sand,
about three quarters of a mile from the shore; the north point of the harbour bearing N. by
E. 1/2 E., one mile distant; and the small islands in the entrance, within which we anchored,
extending from E. to S.E.

Scarcely were the ships secured, when it began to blow very strong; so that we thought it prudent
to strike top-gallant yards. The weather, however, continued fair; and the wind dispersing
the fog that had settled on the hills, it was tolerably clear also. The moment, therefore,
we had anchored, I hoisted out two boats; in one of which I sent Mr Bligh, the master, to survey
the upper part of the harbour, and look for wood; for not a shrub was to be seen from the ship.
I also desired Captain Clerke to send his master to sound the channel that is on the south
side of the small isles, between them and a pretty large island which lies near the south point
of the harbour. Having given these directions, I went myself, in my other boat, accompanied
by Mr Gore, my first lieutenant, and Mr Bayly, and landed on the north point, to see what I
could discover from thence.

From the highest hill over the point, we had a pretty good view of the sea-coast, as far as
Howe's Foreland. It is much indented, and several rocky points seemed to shoot out from it,
with coves and inlets of unequal extent. One of the latter, the end of which I could not see,
was disjoined from that in which the ships were at anchor, by the point we then stood upon.
A great many small islands, rocks, and breakers, appeared scattered along the coast, as well
to the southward as northward; and I saw no better channel to get out of the harbour, than
by the one through which we had entered it.

While Mr Bayly and I were making the observations, Mr Gore encompassed the hill, and joined
us by a different route, at the place where I had ordered the boat to wait for us. Except the
craggy precipices, we met with nothing to obstruct our walk. For the country was, if possible,
more barren and desolate than about Christmas Harbour. And yet, if there be the least fertility
in any part of this land, we ought to have found it in this, which is completely sheltered
from the predominating bleak southerly and westerly winds. I observed, with regret, that there
was neither food nor covering for cattle of any sort; and that, if I left any, they must inevitably
perish. In the little cove where the boat waited for us (which I called Penguin Cove, as the
beach was covered with these birds), is a fine rivulet of fresh water, that may be easily come
at. Here were also some large seals, shags, and a few ducks; and Mr Bayly had a transient sight
of a very small land bird; but it flew amongst the rocks, and we lost it. About nine o'clock
we got on board.

Soon after, Mr Bligh returned, and reported, that he had been four miles up the harbour, and,
as he judged, not far from the head of it. He found that its direction was W.S.W.; and that
its breadth, a little above the ships, did not exceed a mile; but grew narrower toward the
head. The soundings were very irregular, being from thirty-seven to ten fathoms; and, except
under the beds of sea-weed, which in many places extended from the shore near half channel
over, the bottom was a fine sand. He landed on both shores, which he found barren and rocky,
without the least signs of tree or shrub, and with very little verdure of any kind. Penguins,
and other oceanic birds and seals, occupied part of the coast, but not in such numbers as at
Christinas Harbour.

Finding no encouragement to continue our researches, and, the next morning, both wind and weather
being favourable, I weighed anchor and put to sea. To this harbour I gave the name of Port
Palliser, in honour of my worthy friend Admiral Sir Hugh Palliser. It is situated in the latitude
of 49° 3' S., in the longitude of 69° 37' E., and five leagues from Howe's Foreland, in the
direction of S. 25° E. There are several islands, rocks, and breakers lying in and without
the entrance. We went in and out between them and the north head; but I have no doubt that
there are other channels.

As we were standing out of Port Palliser, we discovered a round hill, like a sugar-loaf, in
the direction of S. 72° E., about nine leagues distant. It had the appearance of an island
lying at some distance from the coast; but we afterward found it was upon the main land. In
getting out to sea, we had to steer through the winding channels amongst the shoals. However,
we ventured to run over some of them, on which we never found less than eighteen fathoms, and
often did not strike ground with twenty-four; so that, had it not been for the sea-weed growing
upon all of them, they would not have been discovered.

After we had got about three or four leagues from the coast, we found a clear sea, and then
steered E. till nine o'clock, when the Sugar Loaf hill, above mentioned, which I named Mount
Campbell, bore S.E., and a small island that lies to the northward of it, S.S.E., distant four
leagues. I now steered more southerly, in order to get in with the land. At noon, the latitude
by double altitudes was 49° 8' S.; and we had made eighty miles of east longitude from Cape
St Louis.[119] Mount Campbell bore S. 47° W., distant about four leagues; a low point, beyond
which no land was to be seen, bore S.S.E., at the distance of about twenty miles; and we were
about two leagues from the shore.

[Footnote 119: Cape François.]

The land here is low and level.[120] The mountains ending about five leagues from the low point,
a great extent of low land is left, on which Mount Campbell is situated, about four miles from
the foot of the mountains, and one from the sea coast. These mountains have a considerable
elevation, as also most of the inland ones. They seemed to be composed of naked rocks, whose
summits were capt with snow. Nor did the valleys appear to greater advantage. To whatever quarter
we directed our glasses, nothing but sterility was to be seen.

[Footnote 120: This part of the coast seems to be what the French saw on the 5th of January
1774. Monsieur de Pagès speaks of it thus: "Nous reconnumes une nouvelle cote etendue de toute
veu dans l'Est, & dans le Ouest. Les terres de cette cote étoient moins elevées que celles
que nous avions veues jusques ici; elles étoient aussi d'un aspect moins rude."--De Pagès,
tom. ii. p. 68.--D.]

We had scarcely finished taking the bearings at noon, before we observed low land opening off
the low point just mentioned, in the direction of S.S.E., and eight miles beyond it. This new
point proved to be the very eastern extremity of this land, and it was named Cape Digby. It
is situated in the latitude of 49° 23' S., and in the longitude of 70° 34' E.

Between Howe's Foreland and Cape Digby, the shore forms (besides the several lesser bays and
harbours) one great bay that extends several leagues to the S.W., where it seemed to lose itself
in various arms running in, between the mountains. A prodigious quantity of sea-weed grows
all over it, which seemed to be the same sort of weed that Sir Joseph Banks distinguished by
the name of fucus giganteus. Some of this weed is of a most enormous length, though the stem
is not much thicker than a man's thumb. I have mentioned, that on some of the shoals upon which
it grows, we did not strike ground with a line of twenty-four fathoms. The depth of water,
therefore, must have been greater. And as this weed does not grow in a perpendicular direction,
but makes a very acute angle with the bottom, and much of it afterward spreads many fathoms
on the surface of the sea, I am well warranted to say, that some of it grows to the length
of sixty fathoms and upward.

At one o'clock (having run two leagues upon a S.E. 1/2 E. course, from noon) we sounded, and
found eighteen fathoms water, and a bottom of fine sand. Seeing a small bending in the coast,
on the north side of Cape Digby, I steered for it. It was my intention to anchor there, if
I should find it might be done with safety, and to land on the Cape, to examine what the low
land within it produced. After running in one league, we sounded again, and found thirteen
fathoms; and immediately after, saw a shoal right before us, that seemed to extend off from
the shore, from which we were distant about two miles. This discovery obliged us to haul off,
E. by S., one league, where our depth of water increased to twenty-five fathoms. We then steered
along shore, and continued in the same depth, over a bottom of fine sand, till Cape Digby bore
W., two leagues distant, when we found twenty-six fathoms.

After this we did not strike ground, though we tried several times; but the ship having a good
deal of way, ran the line out before the lead could reach the bottom, and being disappointed
in my views both of anchoring and of landing, I would not shorten sail, but pushed forward,
in order to see as much of the coast as possible before night. From Cape Digby, it trends nearly
S.W. by S. for about four or five leagues, or to a low point, to which, in honour of her majesty,
I gave the name of Point Charlotte, and it is the southernmost on the low coast.

Six leagues from Cape Digby, in the direction of S.S.W. 1/2 W., is a pretty high projecting
point, which was called Prince of Wales's Foreland; and six leagues beyond that, in the same
direction, and in the latitude of 49° 54' S., and the longitude of 70 13' E., is the most southerly
point of the whole coast, which I distinguished by the name of Cape George, in honour of his
majesty.

Between Point Charlotte and Prince of Wales's Foreland, where the country to the S.W. began
again to be hilly, is a deep inlet, which was called Royal Sound. It runs in W. quite to the
foot of the mountains which bound it on the S.W., as the low land before-mentioned does on
the N. There are islands lying in the entrance, and others higher up, as far as we could distinguish.
As we advanced to the S. we observed, on the S.W. side of Prince of Wales's Foreland, another
inlet into Royal Sound; and it then appeared, that the foreland was the E. point of a large
island lying in the mouth of it. There are several small islands in this inlet; and one about
a league to the southward of Prince of Wales's Foreland.

All the land on the S.W. side of Royal Sound, quite to Cape George, is composed of elevated
hills, that rise directly from the sea, one behind another, to a considerable height. Most
of the summits were capt with snow, and they appeared as naked and barren as any we had seen.
The smallest vestige of a tree or shrub was not discoverable, either inland or on the coast;
and, I think, I may venture to pronounce that the country produces none. The low land about
Cape Digby, when examined through our glasses, resembled the rest of the low land we had before
met with; that is, it appeared to be partly naked and partly covered with a green turf, a description
of which shall be given in its proper place. The shore is composed of sandy beaches, on which
were many penguins, and other oceanic birds; and an immense number of shags kept perpetually
flying about the ships as we sailed along.

Being desirous of getting the length of Cape George, to be assured whether or no it was the
most southerly point of the whole land, I continued to stretch to the S. under all the sail
we could carry, till half an hour past seven o'clock, when, seeing no likelihood of accomplishing
my design, as the wind had by this time shifted to W.S.W., the very direction in which we wanted
to go, I took the advantage of the shifting of the wind, and stood away from the coast.

At this time Cape George bore S. 53° W. distant about seven leagues. A small island that lies
off the pitch of the cape was the only land we could see to the south of it; and we were farther
confirmed that there was no more in that quarter by a S.W. swell which we met as soon as we
brought the cape to bear in this direction.

But we have still a stronger proof that no part of this land can extend much, if at all, to
the southward of Cape George, and that is, Captain Furneaux's track in February, 1773, after
his separation from me during my late voyage. His log-book is now lying before me; and I find
from it, that he crossed the meridian of the land only about seventeen leagues to the southward
of Cape George, a distance at which it may very well be seen in clear weather. This seems to
have been the case when Captain Furneaux passed it. For his log-book makes no mention of fogs
or hazy weather; on the contrary, it expressly tells us, that, when in this situation, they
had it in their power to make observations, both for latitude and longitude, on board his ship;
so that, if this land extends farther S. than Cape George, it would have been scarcely possible
that he should have passed without seeing it.

From these circumstances we are able to determine, within a very, few miles, the quantity of
latitude that this land occupies, which does not much exceed one degree and a quarter. As to
its extent from E. to W. that still remains undecided. We only know, that no part of it can
reach so far to the W. as the meridian of 65°, because, in 1773, under that meridian, I searched
for it in vain.[121]

[Footnote 121: If the French observations, as marked upon Captain Cook's chart, and still more
authentically upon that published by their own discoverers, may be depended upon, this land
doth not reach so far to the W. as the meridian of 63°; Cape Louis, which is represented as
its most westerly point, being laid down by them to the E. of that meridian.--D.]

The French discoverers, with some reason, imagined Cape St Louis[122] to be the projecting
point, of the southern continent. The English have since proved that no such continent exists,
and that the land in question is an island of no great extent;[123] which, from its sterility,
I should, with great propriety, call the Island of Desolation, but that I would not rob Monsieur
de Kerguelen of the honour of its bearring his name.[124]

[Footnote 122: The idea of Cape Louis being this projecting point of a southern continent must
have soon vanished, as Cape François, within a year after, was found, by the same discoverer,
to lie above one third of a degree farther N. upon the same land. But if Kerguelen entertained
any such imagination at first, we are sure that afterwards he thought very differently. This
appears from the following explicit declaration of his sentiments, which deserves to be transcribed
from his late publication, as it does equal honour to his candour, and Captain Cook's abilities:--"La
terre que j'ai decouverte est certainement une Isle; puisque le célebre Capitaine Cook a passé
au Sud, lors de son premiere voyage, sans rien rencontrer. Je juge inême, que cette isle n'est
pas bien grande. Il y a aussi apparence, d'apres le Voyage de Monsieur Cook, que toute cette
étendue de Mers Meridionales, est semée d'lsles ou de rochers; mais qu'il n'y a ni continent
ni grande terre." Kerguelen, p. 92.--D.]

[Footnote 123: Kerguelen, as we see in the last note, concurs with Captain Cook as to this.
However, he tells us, that he has reason to believe that it is about 200 leagues in circuit;
and that he was acquainted with about fourscore leagues of its coast. "J'en connois environs
quatre-vingt lieues des cotes; et; j'ai lieu de croire, qu'elle a environ deux cents lieues
de circuit." Kerguelen, page32--D.]

[Footnote 124: Some of Monsieur de Kerguelen's own countrymen seem more desirous than we are
to rob him of his honour. It is very remarkable, that Monsieur de Pagès never once mentions
the name of his commander; and, though he takes occasion to enumerate the several French explorers
of the southern hemisphere, from Gonneville down to Crozet, he affects to preserve an entire
silence about Kerguelen, whose first voyage, in which the discovery of this considerable tract
of land was made, is kept as much out of sight as if it never had taken place. Nay, not satisfied
with refusing to acknowledge the right of another, he almost assumes it to himself. For, upon
a map of the world annexed to his book, at the spot where the new land is delineated, we read
this inscription, Isles nouvelles Australes vuées par Monsieur de Pagès, en 1774. He could
scarcely have expressed himself in stronger terms, if he had meant to convey an idea that he
was the conductor of the discovery. And yet we know that he was only a lieutenant [Enseigne
de vaisseau] on board of one of three ships commanded by Kerguelen; and that the discovery
had been already made in a former voyage, undertaken while he was actually engaged in his singular
journey round the world.

After all, it cannot but be remarked, that Kerguelen was peculiarly unfortunate in having done
so little to complete what he had begun. He discovered a new land indeed; but, in two expeditions
to it, he could not once bring his ships to an anchor upon any part of its coasts. Captain
Cook, as we have seen in this, and in the foregoing chapter, had either fewer difficulties
to struggle with, or was more successful in surmounting them.--D.]

Mr Anderson, my surgeon, who, as I have already mentioned, had made natural history a part
of his studies, lost no opportunity, during the short time we lay in Christmas Harbour, of
searching the country in every direction. He afterward communicated to me the observations
he made on its natural productions; and I shall insert them here in his own words.

"Perhaps no place hitherto discovered in either hemisphere, under the same parallel of latitude,
affords so scanty a field for the naturalist as this barren spot. The verdure which appears,
when at a little distance from the shore, would flatter one with the expectation of meeting
with some herbage; but in this we were much deceived. For on landing, we saw that this lively
colour was occasioned only by one small plant, not much unlike some sorts of saxifrage, which
grows in large spreading tufts to a considerable way up the hills. It forms a surface of a
pretty large texture, and grows on a kind of rotten turf, into which one sinks a foot or two
at every step. This turf, dried, might, in cases of necessity, serve for fuel, and is the only
thing we met with here that could possibly be applied to this use."

"There is another plant, plentifully enough scattered about the boggy declivities, which grows
to near the height of two feet, and not much unlike a small cabbage, when it has shot into
seeds. The leaves about the root are numerous, large, and rounded; narrower at the base, and
ending in a small point. Those on the stalks are much smaller, oblong, and pointed. The stalks,
which are often three or four, all rise separately from the root, and run into long cylindrical
heads, composed of small flowers. It has not only the appearance, but the watery acrid taste
of the antiscorbutic plants, and yet differs materially from the whole tribe; so that we looked
upon it as a production entirely peculiar to the place. We ate it frequently raw, and found
it almost like the New Zealand scurvy grass. But it seemed to acquire a rank flavour by being
boiled; which, however, some of our people did not perceive, and esteemed it good. If it could
be introduced into our kitchen gardens, it would, in all probability, improve so far by cultivation
as to be an excellent pot-herb. At this time none of its seeds were ripe enough to be preserved,
and brought home, to try the experiment."

"Two other small plants were found near the brooks and boggy places, which were eaten as sallad;
the one almost like garden cresses, and very fiery, and the other very mild. This last, though
but small, is in itself a curiosity; having not only male and female, but what the botanists
call androgynous plants."

"A coarse grass, which we cut down for the cattle, grows pretty plentifully in a few small
spots about the sides of the harbour, with a smaller sort, which is rarer; and upon the flat
ground a sort of goose-grass, and another small plant much like it. In short, the whole catalogue
of plants does not exceed sixteen or eighteen, including some sorts of moss, and a beautiful
species of lichen, which grows upon the rocks, higher up than the rest of the vegetable productions.
Nor is there even the least appearance of a shrub in the whole country."

"Nature has rather been more bountiful in furnishing it with animals, though, strictly speaking,
they are not inhabitants of the place, being all of the marine kind; and, in general, only
using the land for breeding and for a resting-place. The most considerable are seals, or (as
we used to call them) sea-bears, being that sort called the ursine seal. These come ashore
to rest or breed; but they were not very numerous, which is not to be wondered at, as it is
known that these animals rather frequent out-rocks, and little islands lying off coasts, than
bays or inlets. They were, at this time, shedding their hair, and so tame, that we killed what
number we chose."

"No other quadruped, either of the sea or of the land kind, was seen; but a great number of
birds, viz. ducks, petrels, albatrosses, shags, gulls, and sea-swallows."

"The ducks are about the size of a teal or widgeon, but somewhat different in colour from either.
They were in tolerable plenty about the sides of the hills, or even lower; and we killed a
considerable number, which were good, and without the least fishy taste. We met with some of
the same sort at the island of Georgia in our late voyage."

"The cape petrel, or pintado bird; the small blue one, which is always seen at sea, and the
small black one, or Mother Carey's chicken, are not here in great numbers. But we found a nest
of the first with an egg in it, about the size of a pullet's; and the second, though scarce,
was met with in some holes like rabbit-burrows."

"Another sort, which is the largest of all the petrels, and called by the seamen Mother Carey's
goose, is in greater numbers, and so tame, that at first we could kill them with a stick upon
the beach. They are not inferior in size to an albatross, and are carnivorous, feeding on the
dead carcasses of seals or birds that were thrown into the sea. Their colour is a sooty brown,
with a greenish bill and feet; and, doubtless, they are the same that the Spaniards call quebrantahuessos,
whose head is figured in Pernetty's Voyage to Falkland Islands."[125]

[Footnote 125: Fig. 3, plate viii.]

"Of the albatrosses, none were found on shore except the grey one, which is commonly met with
at sea in the higher southern latitudes. Once I saw one of these sitting in the cliff of a
rock, but they were frequently flying about the harbour; and the common large sort, as well
as the smaller with a black face, were seen farther out."

"Penguins form, by far, the greatest number of birds here, and are of three sorts; the first,
or largest, I have seen formerly at the island of Georgia.[126] It is also mentioned by Bougainville;[127]
but it does not seem to be so solitary as he represents it, for we found considerable numbers
flocking together. The head is black, the upper part of the body a leaden grey, and the under
part white, with black feet. It has two broad stripes of fine yellow, that begin on the sides
of the head, and, descending by each side of the neck, meet above its breast. The bill is partly
reddish, and longer than in the other sorts."

[Footnote 126: Pennant's Patagonian penguin. See his Genera of Birds, tab. 14, p. 66.]

[Footnote 127: Voyage autour du Monde, p. 69.]

"The second sort of penguins scarcely exceeds half the size of the former. The upper part of
the body is a blackish grey, with a white spot on the upper part of the head, growing broader
at each side. The bill and feet are yellowish. A very accurate figure and description, both
of this and of the preceding, is given by Mr Sonnerat."[128]

[Footnote 128: Voyage à la Nouvelle Guinée, p. 181, 182. Tab. 113, 115.]

"The third sort of penguin met with here, had never been seen by any of us before. Its length
is twenty-four inches, and its breadth twenty. The upper part of the body and throat are black,
the rest white, except the upper part of the head, which has a fine yellow arch, looking backward,
and ending on each side in long soft feathers, which it can erect as two crests."

"The two first sorts were found together on the beach; the large ones keeping by themselves,
and walking in small flocks amongst the others, which were more numerous, and were sometimes
seen a considerable way up the sides of the hills. The third sort were only found by themselves,
but in great numbers, on the outer shores of the harbour. They were breeding at this time;
and they lay on the bare stones only one white egg, larger than that of a duck. All the three
sorts of penguins were so tame, that we took as many as we pleased with our hands."

"The shags of this place are of two sorts; the lesser cormorant or water-crow, and another,
which is black above, with a white belly, the same that is found in New Zealand, Terra del
Fuego, and the island of Georgia."

"We also met with here the common sea-gull, sea-swallow, tern, and Port Egmont hen; the last
of which were tame and numerous."

"Another sort of white bird, flocks of which flew about the bay, is very singular, having the
base of the bill covered with a horny crust.[129] It is larger than a pigeon, with the bill
black and the feet white, made like those of a curlew. Some of our people put it in competition
with the duck as food."

[Footnote 129: The sheath-bill. See Pennant's Genera of Birds, p. 43.]

"The seine was hauled once, but we found only a few fish about the size of a small haddock,
though quite different from any we knew. The snout is lengthened, the head armed with some
strong spines, the rays of the back-fin long, and very strong, the belly is large, and the
body without scales. The only shell-fish are a few limpets and muscles; and amongst the stones
a few small star-fish and sea-anemonies were found."

"The hills are of a moderate height; yet many of their tops were covered with snow at this
time, though answering to our June. Some of them have large quantities of stones, irregularly
heaped together at their root, or on their sides. The sides of others, which form steep cliffs
toward the sea, are rent from the top downward, and seem ready to fall off, having stones of
a considerable size lying in the fissures. Some were of opinion that frost might be the cause
of these fissures, which I shall not dispute; but how others of the appearances could be effected,
but by earthquakes, or some such severe shocks, I cannot say."

"It appears that rain must be almost constant here, not only from the marks of large torrents
having rushed down, but from the disposition of the country, which, even on the hills, is almost
an entire bog or swamp, the ground sinking at every step."

"The rocks, or foundations of the hills, are composed chiefly of a dark blue, and very hard,
stone; intermixed with small particles of glimmer or quartz. This seems to be one of the most
universal productions of nature, as it constitutes whole mountains in Sweden, in Scotland,
at the Canary Islands, the Cape of Good Hope, and at this place. Another brownish brittle stone
forms here some considerable rocks; and one which is blacker, and found in detached pieces,
incloses bits of coarse quartz. A red, a dull yellow, and a purplish sand-stone, are also found
in small pieces; and pretty large lumps of semi-transparent quartz, disposed irregularly in
polyedral pyramidal crystals of long shining fibres. Some small pieces of the common sort are
met with in the brooks, made round by attrition; but none hard enough to resist a file. Nor
were any of the other stones acted on by aquafortis, or attracted by the magnet."

"Nothing, that had the least appearance of an ore or metal, was seen."

After leaving Kerguelen's Land, I steered E. by N. intending, in obedience to my instructions,
to touch next at New Zealand, to recruit our water, to take in wood, and to make hay for the
cattle. Their number, by this time, had been considerably diminished; two young bulls, one
of the heifers, two rams, and several of the goats, having of late died, while we were employed
in exploring this desolate coast.

The 31st in the morning, being the day after we stood out to sea, we had several observations
of the sun and moon. Their results gave the longitude 72° 33' 36" E. The timekeeper, in this
situation, gave 72° 38' 15". These observations were the more useful, as we had not been able
to get any for some time before, and they now served to assure us that no material error had
crept into the time-keeper.

On the 1st of January, being then in the latitude of 48° 41' S. longitude 76° 50' E., the variation
was 30° 39' W.; and in the next day, in the latitude of 48° 22' S. longitude 80° 22' E., it
was 30° 47' 18" W. This was the greatest variation we found in this passage; for afterward
it began to decrease, but so slowly, that on the 3d, in the evening, being then in the latitude
of 48° 16' S. longitude 85° E., it was 29° 38' W.

Thus far we had fresh gales from the W. and S.W., and tolerably clear weather. But now the
wind veered to the N. where it continued eight days, and was attended with a thick fog. During
this time we ran above 300 leagues in the dark. Now and then the weather would clear up, and
give us a sight of the sun; but this happened very seldom, and was always of short continuance.
On the 7th I hoisted out a boat, and sent an order to Captain Clerke, appointing Adventure
Bay, in Van Diemen's Land, as our place of rendezvous, in case of separation before we arrived
in the meridian of that land. But we were fortunate enough, amidst all this foggy weather,
by frequently firing guns as signals, though we seldom saw each other, not to lose company.

On the 12th, being in the latitude of 48° 40' S. longitude 110° 26' E. the northerly winds
ended in a calm; which, after a few hours, was succeeded by a wind from the southward. This,
with rain, continued for twenty-four hours, when it freshened, and veered to the W. and N.W.,
and brought on fair and clear weather.

We continued our course to the eastward, without meeting with any thing worthy of notice, till
four o'clock in the morning of the 19th, when, in a sudden squall of wind, though the Discovery
received no damage, our fore-top-mast went by the board, and carried the main-top-gallant-mast
with it. This occasioned some delay, as it took up the whole day to clear the wreck, and fit
another top-mast. The former was accomplished without losing any part of it, except a few fathoms
of small rope. Not having a spare main-top-gallant-mast on board, the fore-top-gallant-mast
was converted into one for our immediate use.

The wind continued westerly, blew a fresh gale, and was attended with clear weather, so that
scarcely a day passed without being able to get observations for fixing the longitude, and
the variation of the compass. The latter decreased in such a manner, that in the latitude of
44° 18' S. longitude 132° 2' E., it was no more than 5° 34' 18" W.; and on the 22d, being then
in the latitude of 43° 27' S. longitude 141° 50' E., it was 1° 24' 15" E. So that we had crossed
the Line where the compass has no variation.

On the 24th, at three o'clock in the morning, we discovered the coast of Van Diemen's Land,
bearing N. 1/2 W. At four o'clock the S.W. cape bore N.N.W. 1/2 W., and the Mewstone N.E. by
E. three leagues distant. There are several islands and high rocks lying scattered along this
part of the coast, the southernmost of which is the Mewstone. It is a round elevated rock,
five or six leagues distant from the S.W. cape, in the direction of S. 55° E.

At noon, our latitude was 43° 47' S. longitude 147° E., and the situation of the lands round
us as follows: An elevated round-topped hill bore N. 17° W.; the S.W. cape N. 74° W.; the Mewstone
W. 1/2 N.; Swilly Isle, or Rock, S. 49° E.; and the S.E. of S. cape N. 40° E. distant near
three leagues. The land between the S.W. and S. capes is broken and hilly, the coast winding,
with points shooting out from it; but we were too far off to be able to judge whether the bays
formed by these points were sheltered from the sea-winds. The bay which appeared to be the
largest and deepest, lies to the westward of the peaked hill above mentioned. The variation
of the compass here was 5° 15' E.

At six o'clock in the afternoon we sounded, and found sixty fathoms water, over a bottom of
broken coral and shells. The S. cape then bore N. 75° W. two or three leagues distant; Tasman's
Head N.E.; and Swilly Rock S. by W 1/2 W. About a league to the eastward of Swilly is another
elevated rock, that is not taken notice of by Captain Furneaux. I called it the Eddystone,
from its very great resemblance to that light-house. Nature seems to have left these two rocks
here for the same purpose that the Eddystone light-house was built by man, viz. to give navigators
notice of the dangers around them; for they are the conspicuous summits of a ledge of rocks
under water, on which the sea, in many places, breaks very high. Their surface is white with
the dung of sea-fowls; so that they may be seen at some distance even in the night. On the
N.E. side of Storm Bay, which lies between the S. cape and Tasman's Head, there are some coves
or creeks, that seemed to be sheltered from the sea-winds; and I am of opinion, that, were
this coast examined, there would be found some good harbours.

Soon after we had sight of land the westerly winds left us, and were succeeded by variable
light airs and alternate calms, till the 26th at noon. At that time a breeze sprung up and
freshened at S.E. which put it in my power to carry into execution the design I had, upon due
consideration, formed, of carrying the ships into Adventure Bay, where I might expect to get
a supply of wood and of grass for the cattle; of both which articles we should, as I now found,
have been in great want if I had waited till our arrival in New Zealand. We therefore stood
for the bay, and anchored in it at four o'clock in the afternoon, at twelve fathoms water,
over a bottom of sand and ooze. Penguin Island, which lies close to the E. point of the bay,
bore N. 84° E.; the southernmost point of Maria's Islands bore N. 76° 1/2 E.; and Cape Frederick
Henry, or the N. point of the bay, bore N. 33° E. Our distance from the nearest shore was about
three quarters of a mile.

As soon as we had anchored, I ordered the boats to be hoisted out. In one of them I went myself
to look for the most commodious place for furnishing ourselves with the necessary supplies;
and Captain Clerke went in his boat upon the same service. Wood and water we found in plenty,
and in situations convenient enough, especially the first. But grass, of which we stood most
in need, was scarce, and also very coarse. Necessity, however, obliged us to take such as we
could get.

Next morning early, I sent Lieutenant King to the E. side of the bay with two parties, one
to cut wood, and the other to cut grass, under the protection of the marines, whom I judged
it prudent to land as a guard. For although, as yet, none of the natives had appeared, there
could be no doubt that some were in our neighbourhood, as we had seen columns of smoke from
the time of our approaching the coast, and some now was observed at no great distance up in
the woods, I also sent the launch for water; and afterward visited all the parties myself.
In the evening, we drew the seine at the head of the bay, and, at one haul, caught a great
quantity of fish. We should have got many more, had not the net broken in drawing it ashore.
Most of them were of that sort known to seamen by the name of elephant fish. After this, every
one repaired on board with what wood and grass we had cut, that we might be ready to sail whenever
the wind should serve.

This not happening next morning, the people were sent on shore again on the same duty as the
day before. I also employed the carpenter, with part of his crew, to cut some spars for the
use of the ship; and dispatched Mr Roberts, one of the mates, in a small boat to survey the bay.

In the afternoon, we were agreeably surprised, at the place where we were cutting wood, with
a visit from some of the natives, eight men and a boy. They approached as from the woods, without
betraying any marks of fear, or rather with the greatest confidence imaginable; for none of
them, had any weapons, except one who held in his hand a stick about two feet long, and pointed
at one end.

They were quite naked, and wore no ornaments, unless we consider as such, and as a proof of
their love of finery, some small punctures or ridges raised on different parts of their bodies,
some in straight, and others in curved lines.

They were of the common stature, but rather slender. Their skin was black, and also their hair,
which was as woolly as that of any native of Guinea; but they were not distinguished by remarkably
thick lips, nor flat noses. On the contrary, their features were far from being disagreeable.
They had pretty good eyes; and their teeth were tolerably even, but very dirty. Most of them
had their hair and beards smeared with a red ointment; and some had their faces also painted
with the same composition.

They received every present we made to them without the least appearance of satisfaction. When
some bread was given, as soon as they understood that it was to be eaten, they either returned
it, or threw it away, without even tasting it. They also refused some elephant fish, both raw
and dressed, which we offered to them. But upon giving some birds to them, they did not return
these, and easily made us comprehend that they were fond of such food. I had brought two pigs
ashore, with a view to leave them in the woods. The instant these came within their reach,
they seized them, as a dog would have done, by the ears, and were for carrying them off immediately,
with no other intention, as we could perceive, but to kill them.

Being desirous of knowing the use of the stick which one of our visitors carried in his hand,
I made signs to them to shew me; and so far succeeded, that one of them set up a piece of wood
as a mark, and threw at it at the distance of about twenty yards. But we had little reason
to commend his dexterity; for, after repeated trials, he was still very wide from the object.
Omai, to shew them how much superior our weapons were to theirs, then fired his musquet at
it, which alarmed them so much, that notwithstanding all we could do or say, they ran instantly
into the woods. One of them was so frightened, that he let drop an axe and two knives that
had been given to him. From us, however, they went to the place where some of the Discovery's
people were employed in taking water into their boat. The officer of that party, not knowing
that they had paid us so friendly a visit, nor what their intent might be, fired a musquet
in the air, which sent them off with the greatest precipitation.

Thus ended our first interview with the natives. Immediately after their final retreat, judging
that their fears would prevent their remaining near enough to observe what was passing, I ordered
the two pigs, being a boar and sow, to be carried about a mile within the woods at the head
of the bay. I saw them left there, by the side of a fresh-water brook. A young bull and a cow,
and some sheep and goats, were also, at first, intended to have been left by me, as an additional
present to Van Diemen's Land. But I soon laid aside all thought of this, from a persuasion
that the natives, incapable of entering into my views of improving their country, would destroy
them. If ever they should meet with the pigs, I have no doubt this will be their fate. But
as that race of animals soon becomes wild, and is fond of the thickest cover of the woods,
there is great probability of their being preserved. An open place must have been chosen for
the accommodation of the other cattle; and, in such a situation, they could not possibly have
remained concealed many days.

The morning of the 29th was ushered in with a dead calm, which continued all day, and effectually
prevented our sailing. I therefore sent a party over to the E. point of the bay to cut grass,
having been informed that some of a superior quality grew there. Another party, to cut wood,
was ordered to go to the usual place, and I accompanied them myself. We had observed several
of the natives this morning sauntering along the shore, which assured us, that though their
consternation had made them leave us so abruptly the day before, they were convinced that we
intended them no mischief, and were desirous of renewing the intercourse. It was natural that
I should wish to be present on the occasion.

We had not been long landed, before about twenty of them, men and boys, joined us, without
expressing the least sign of fear or distrust. There was one of this company conspicuously
deformed, and who was not more distinguishable by the hump upon his back, than by the drollery
of his gestures, and the seeming humour of his speeches, which he was very fond of exhibiting,
as we supposed, for our entertainment. But, unfortunately, we could not understand him; the
language spoken here being wholly unintelligible to us. It appeared to me to be different from
that spoken by the inhabitants of the more northern parts of this country, whom I met with
in my first voyage; which is not extraordinary, since those we now saw, and those we then visited,
differ in many other respects.[130] Nor did they seem to be such miserable wretches as the
natives whom Dampier mentions to have seen on its western coast.[131]

[Footnote 130: The most striking difference seems to be with regard to the texture of the hair.
The natives whom Captain Cook met with at Endeavour River in 1769, are said, by him, to have
"naturally long and black hair, though it be universally cropped short. In general it is straight,
but sometimes it has a slight curl. We saw none that was not matted and filthy. Their beards
were of the same colour with the hair, and bushy and thick."

It may be necessary to mention here, on the authority of Captain King, that Captain Cook was
very unwilling to allow that the hair of the natives now met with in Adventure Bay was woolly,
fancying that his people, who first observed this, had been deceived, from its being clotted
with grease and red ochre. But Captain King prevailed upon him afterward to examine carefully
the hair of the boys, which was generally, as well as that of the women, free from this dirt;
and then he owned himself satisfied that it was naturally woolly. Perhaps we may suppose it
possible, that he himself had been deceived when he was in Endeavour River, from this very
circumstance, as he expressly says, that "they saw none that was not matted and filthy."--D.]

[Footnote 131: And yet Dampier's New Hollanders, on the western coast, bear a striking resemblance
to Captain Cook's at Van Diemen's Land, in many remarkable instances:--

1st, As to their becoming familiar with the strangers.

2dly, As to their persons; being straight-bodied and thin, their skin black, and black, short,
curled hair, like the negroes of Guinea, with wide mouths.

3dly, As to their wretched condition, having no houses, no garment, no canoes, no instrument
to catch large fish; feeding on broiled muscles, cockles, and periwinkles; having no fruits
of the earth; their weapons a straight pole, sharpened and hardened at the end, &c. &c.

The chief peculiarities of Dampier's miserable wretches are, 1st, Their eye-lids being always
half closed, to keep the flies out, which were excessively troublesome there; and, 2dly, Their
wanting the two fore-teeth of the upper jaw, and their having no beards. See Dampier's Voyages,
vol. i. p. 464, &c. There seems to be no reason for supposing that Dampier was mistaken in
the above account of what he saw.--D.]

Some of our present group wore, loose, round their necks, three or four folds of small cord,
made of the fur of some animal; and others of them had a narrow slip of the kangooroo skin
tied round their ankles. I gave to each of them a string of beads and a medal, which I thought
they received with some satisfaction. They seemed to set no value on iron, or on iron tools.
They were even ignorant of the use of fish-hooks, if we might judge from their manner of looking
at some of ours which we shewed to them.

We cannot, however, suppose it to be possible that a people who inhabit a sea-coast, and who
seem to derive no part of their sustenance from the productions of the ground, should not be
acquainted with some mode of catching fish, though we did not happen to see any of them thus
employed, nor observe any canoe, or vessel, in which they could go upon the water. Though they
absolutely rejected the sort of fish that we offered to them, it was evident that shell-fish,
at least, made a part of their food, from the many heaps of muscle-shells we saw in different
parts near the shore, and about some deserted habitations near the head of the bay. These were
little sheds, or hovels, built of sticks, and covered with bark. We could also perceive evident
signs of their sometimes taking up their abode in the trunks of large trees, which had been
hollowed out by fire, most probably for this very purpose. In or near all these habitations,
and wherever there was a heap of shells, there remained the marks of fire, an indubitable proof
that they do not eat their food raw.

After staying about an hour with the wooding party and the natives, as I could now be pretty
confident that the latter were not likely to give the former any disturbance, I left them,
and went over to the grass-cutters on the east point of the bay, and found that they had met
with a fine patch. Having seen the boats loaded, I left that party, and returned on board to
dinner; where, some time after, Lieutenant King arrived.

From him I learnt, that I had but just left the shore, when several women and children made
their appearance, and were introduced to him by some of the men who attended them. He gave
presents to all of them, of such trifles as he had about him. These females wore a kangooroo
skin (in the same shape as it came from the animal) tied over the shoulders, and round the
waist. But its only use seemed to be to support their children when carried on their backs,
for it did not cover those parts which most nations conceal; being, in all other respects,
as naked as the men, and as black, and their bodies marked with scars in the same manner. But
in this they differed from the men, that though their hair was of the same colour and texture,
some of them had their heads completely shorn or shaved; in others this operation had been
performed only on one side, while the rest of them had all the upper part of the head shorn
close, leaving a circle of hair all round, somewhat like the tonsure of the Romish ecclesiastics.[132]
Many of the children had fine features, and were thought pretty; but of the persons of the
women, especially those advanced in years, a less favourable report was made. However, some
of the gentlemen belonging to the Discovery, I was told, paid their addresses, and made liberal
offers of presents, which were rejected with great disdain; whether from a sense of virtue,
or the fear of displeasing their men, I shall not pretend to determine. That this gallantry
was not very agreeable to the latter, is certain; for an elderly man, as soon as he observed
it, ordered all the women and children to retire, which they obeyed, though some of them shewed
a little reluctance.

[Footnote 132: Captain Cook's account of the natives of Van Diemen's Land, in this chapter,
no doubt proves that they differ, in many respects, as he says, from the inhabitants of the
more northerly parts of the east coast of New Holland, whom he met with in his first voyage.
It seems very remarkable, however, that the only woman any of his people came close to, in
Botany Bay, should have her hair cropped short, while the man who was with her, is said to
have had the hair of his head bushy, and his beard long and rough. Could the natives of Van
Diemen's Land be more accurately described, than by saying that the hair of the men's heads
is bushy, and their beards long and rough, and that the women's hair is cropped short? So far
north, therefore, as Botany Bay, the natives of the east coast of New Holland seem to resemble
those of Van Diemen's Land, in this circumstance.--D.]

This conduct of Europeans amongst savages, to their women, is highly blameable; as it creates
a jealousy in their men, that may be attended with consequences fatal to the success of the
common enterprise, and to the whole body of adventurers, without advancing the private purpose
of the individual, or enabling him to gain the object of his wishes. I believe it has been
generally found among uncivilized people, that where the women are easy of access, the men
are the first to offer them to strangers; and that, where this is not the case, neither the
allurement of presents, nor the opportunity of privacy, will be likely to have the desired
effect. This observation, I am sure, will hold good, throughout all the parts of the South
Sea where I have been. Why then should men act so absurd a part, as to risk their own safety,
and that of all their companions, in pursuit of a gratification which they have no probability
of obtaining?[133]

[Footnote 133: In uncivilized nations, the women are completely subservient to the power and
desires of the men, without seeming to possess, or to be allowed, a will or thought of their
own. Amongst them, therefore, the primitive mode of temptation must be reversed, and the husband
is first to be gained over. When this is done, all that follows, is understood and intended
by him, as a sort of temporary barter; and the favours of his wife, or daughter, are valued
by him just in the proportion they are sought for by those with whom he is dealing. But where
his animal necessities can scarcely be supplied, it cannot be imagined that he will be very
sensible to the force of toys and trinkets as objects of temptation. These, on the other hand,
will carry most persuasion, where, through the greater bounty of nature, an avenue has been
opened for the display of vanity and the love of ornament. Any opposition on the female part
in either case, is of no avail as a barrier against strangers, as he who is most concerned
to protect it, finds his account in its sacrifice. We have instances of both in Captain Cook's
voyages.--E.]

In the afternoon I went again to the grass-cutters, to forward their work. I found them then
upon Penguin Island, where they had met with a plentiful crop of excellent grass. We laboured
hard till sun-set, and then repaired on board, satisfied with the quantity we had collected,
and which I judged sufficient to last till our arrival in New Zealand.

During our whole stay, we had either calms or light airs from the eastward. Little or no time,
therefore, was lost by my putting in at this place. For if I had kept the sea, we should not
have been twenty leagues advanced farther on our voyage. And, short as our continuance was
here, it has enabled me to add somewhat to the imperfect acquaintance that hath hitherto been
acquired, with this part of the globe.

Van Diemen's Land has been twice visited before. It was so named by Tasman, who discovered
it in November 1642. From that time it had escaped all farther notice by European navigators,
till Captain Furneaux touched at it in March 1773.[134] I hardly need say, that it is the southern
point of New Holland, which, if it doth not deserve the name of a continent, is by far the
largest island in the world.

[Footnote 134: This is a mistake, though unintentional, no doubt, and ignorantly on the part
of Cook. Captain Marion, a French navigator, and mentioned occasionally in these voyages, visited
Van Diemen's Land about a twelve-month before Captain Furneaux. The account of his voyage was
published at Paris in 1783, but is little known in England; for which reason, and because of
its possessing a considerable degree of interest, Captain Flinders has given an abridgment
of that portion of its contents which respects the land in question. This the reader will find
in his introduction, p. 83, or he may content himself with being informed, that the description
it gives of the natives, &c, generally coincides with what is furnished in the text. Subsequent
to this voyage, it may be remarked, Captain Bligh put into Adventure Bay with his majesty's
ship Bounty, viz. in 1788: and afterwards, viz. in 1792, the coast of Van Diemen's Land was
visited by the French Rear-Admiral D'Entrecasteaux.--E.]

The land is, for the most part, of a good height, diversified with hills and valleys, and every
where of a greenish hue. It is well wooded; and, if one may judge from appearances, and from
what we met with in Adventure Bay, is not ill supplied with water. We found plenty of it in
three or four places in this bay. The best, or what is most convenient for ships that touch
here, is a rivulet, which is one of several that fall into a pond, that lies behind the beach
at the head of the bay. It there mixes with the sea-water, so that it must be taken up above
this pond, which may be done without any great trouble. Fire-wood is to be got, with great
ease, in several places.

The only wind to which this bay is exposed, is the N.E. But as this wind blows from Maria's
Islands, it can bring no very great sea along with it; and therefore, upon the whole, this
may be accounted a very safe road. The bottom is clean, good holding ground; and the depth
of water from twelve to five and four fathoms.

Captain Furneaux's sketch of Van Diemen's Land, published with the narrative of my last voyage,
appears to me to be without any material error, except with regard to Maria's Islands, which
have a different situation from what is there represented.[135] The longitude was determined
by a great number of lunar observations, which we had before we made the land, while we were
in sight of it, and after we had left it; and reduced to Adventure Bay, and the several principal
points, by the time-keeper. The following table will exhibit both the longitude and latitude
at one view:

                                  Latitude South.   Longitude East:
      Adventure Bay,              43°  21'  20"      147°  29'  0"
      Tasman's Head,              43   33    0       147   28   0
      South Cape,                 43   42    0       146   56   0
      South-west Cape,            43   37    0       146    7   0
      Swilly Isle,                43   55    0       147    6   0

   Adventure          {  Variation of the compass 5° 15' E.
         Bay,         {  Dip of the south end of the needle 70° 15 1/2'.

We had high-water on the 29th, being two days before the last quarter of the moon, at nine
in the morning. The perpendicular rise then was eighteen inches, and there was no appearance
of its ever having exceeded two feet and a half. These are all the memorials useful to navigation,
which my short stay has enabled me to preserve, with respect to Van Diemen's Land.

[Footnote 135: But Captain Flinders has pointed out some other mistakes, especially as to the
Storm and Frederik Hendrik's Bays of Tasman, in which, says he, "He has been followed by all
the succeeding navigators, of the same nation, which has created not a little confusion in
the geography of this part of the world." Let us prevent the perpetuity of errors, by quoting
another passage from the same most accurate and skilful navigator. "The bay supposed to have
been Storm Bay, has no name in Tasman's chart; though the particular plan shews that he noticed
it, as did Marion, more distinctly. The rocks marked at the east point of this bay, and called
the Friars, are the Boreal's Eylanden of Tasman; the true Storm Bay is the deep inlet, of which
Adventure Bay is a cove. Frederik Hendrik's Bay is not within this inlet, but lies to the north-eastward,
on the outer side of the land which Captain Furneaux, in consequence of his first mistake,
took to be Maria's Island, but which, in fact, is a part of the main land." A copy of Tasman's
charts is given in the atlas to D'Entrecasteaux's voyage; it is taken from Valantyn, and is
conformable to the manuscript charts in the Dutch journal. But according to Flinders, it has
an error of one degree too much east, in the scale of longitude. Besides, he informs us, "In
the plan of Frederik Hendrik's Bay, the name is placed within the inner bay, instead of being
written, as in the original, on the point of land between the inner and outer bays." He imagines
the name was intended to comprise both, and refers to vol. iii. of Captain Burney's History
of Discoveries in the South Sea, for a copy of Tasman's charts as they stand in the original.--E.]

Mr Anderson, my surgeon, with his usual diligence, spent the few days we remained in Adventure
Bay, in examining the country. His account of its natural productions, with which he favoured
me, will more than compensate for my silence about them: Some of his remarks on the inhabitants
will supply what I may have omitted, or represented imperfectly; and his specimen of their
language, however short, will be thought worth attending to, by those who wish to collect materials
for tracing the origin of nations. I shall only premise, that the tall strait forest trees,
which Mr Anderson describes in the following account, are of a different sort from those which
are found in the more northern parts of this coast. The wood is very long and close-grained,
extremely tough, fit for spars, oars, and many other uses; and would, on occasion, make good
masts, (perhaps none better,) if a method could be found to lighten it.

"At the bottom of Adventure Bay is a beautiful sandy beach, which seems to be wholly formed
by the particles washed by the sea from a very fine white sand-stone, that in many places bounds
the shore, and of which Fluted Cape, in the neighbourhood, from its appearance, seems to be
composed. This beach is about two miles long, and is excellently adapted for hauling a seine,
which both ships did repeatedly with success. Behind this is a plain or flat, with a salt,
or rather brackish lake (running in length parallel with the beach), out of which we caught,
with angling rods, many whitish bream, and some small trout. The other parts of the country
adjoining the bay are quite hilly; and both those and the flat are an entire forest of very
tall trees, rendered almost impassable by shrubs, brakes of fern, and fallen trees; except
on the sides of some of the hills, where the trees are but thin, and a coarse grass is the
only interruption."

"To the northward of the bay there is low land, stretching farther than the eye can reach,
which is only covered with wood in certain spots; but we had no opportunity to examine in what
respects it differed from the hilly country. The soil on the flat land is either sandy, or
consists of a yellowish mould, and, in some places, of a reddish clay. The same is found on
the lower part of the hills; but farther up, especially where there are few trees, it is of
a grey tough cast, to appearance very poor."

"In the valleys between the hills, the water drains down from their sides; and at last, in
some places, forms small brooks; such, indeed, as were sufficient to supply us with water,
but by no means of that size we might expect in so extensive a country, especially as it is
both hilly and well wooded. Upon the whole, it has many marks of being naturally a very dry
country; and perhaps might (independent of its wood) be compared to Africa, about the Cape
of Good Hope, though that lies ten degrees farther northward, rather than to New Zealand, on
its other side, in the same latitude, where we find every valley, however small, furnished
with a considerable stream of water. The heat, too, appears to be great, as the thermometer
stood at 64, 70, and once at 74. And it was remarked, that birds were seldom killed an hour
or two, before they were almost covered with small maggots, which I would rather attribute
merely to the heat; as we had not any reason to suppose there is a peculiar disposition in
the climate to render substances soon putrid."

"No mineral bodies, nor indeed stones of any other sort but the white sand one already mentioned,
were observed.

"Amongst the vegetable productions, there is not one, that we could find, which afforded the
smallest subsistence for man."

"The forest trees are all of one sort, growing to a great height, and in general quite straight,
branching but little, till toward the top. The bark is white, which makes them appear, at a
distance, as if they had been peeled; it is also thick; and within it are sometimes collected,
pieces of a reddish transparent gum or rosin, which has an astringent taste. The leaves of
this tree are long, narrow, and pointed; and it bears clusters of small white flowers, whose
cups were, at this time, plentifully scattered about the ground, with another sort resembling
them somewhat in shape, but much larger; which makes it probable that there are two species
of this tree. The bark of the smaller branches, fruit, and leaves, have an agreeable pungent
taste, and aromatic smell, not unlike peppermint; and in its nature, it has some affinity to
the myrtus of botanists."

"The most common tree, next to this, is a small one about ten feet high, branching pretty much,
with narrow leaves, and a large, yellow, cylindrical flower, consisting only of a vast number
of filaments; which, being shed, leave a fruit like a pine-top. Both the above-mentioned trees
are unknown in Europe."

"The underwood consists chiefly of a shrub somewhat resembling a myrtle, and which seems to
be the leptospermum scoparium, mentioned in Dr Foster's Char. Gen. Plant.; and, in some places,
of another, rather smaller, which is a new species of the melaleuca of Linnaeus."

"Of other plants, which are by no means numerous, there is a species of gladiolus, rush, bell-flower,
samphire, a small sort of wood-sorrel, milk-wort, cudweed, and Job's tears; with a few others,
peculiar to the place. There are several kinds of fern, as polypody, spleenwort, female fern,
and some mosses; but the species are either common, or at least found in some other countries,
especially New Zealand."

"The only animal of the quadruped kind we got, was a sort of opossum, about twice the size
of a large rat; and is, most probably, the male of that species found at Endeavour river, as
mentioned in Cook's first voyage. It is of a dusky colour above, tinged with a brown or rusty
cast, and whitish below. About a third of the tail, towards its tip, is white, and bare underneath;
by which it probably hangs on the branches of trees, as it climbs these, and lives on berries.
The kangooroo, another animal found farther northward in New Holland, as described in the same
voyage, without all doubt also inhabits here, as the natives we met with had some pieces of
their skins; and we several times saw animals, though indistinctly, run from the thickets when
we walked in the woods, which, from the size, could be no other. It should seem also, that
they are in considerable numbers, from the dung we saw almost every where, and from the narrow
tracks or paths they have made amongst the shrubbery."

"There are several sorts of birds, but all so scarce and shy, that they are evidently harrassed
by the natives, who, perhaps, draw much of their subsistence from them. In the woods, the principal
sorts are large brown hawks or eagles; crows, nearly the same as ours in England; yellowish
paroquets; and large pigeons. There are also three or four small birds, one of which is of
the thrush kind; and another small one, with a pretty long tail, has part of the head and neck
of a most beautiful azure colour; from whence we named it motacilla cyanea. On the shore were
several common and sea gulls; a few black oyster-catchers, or sea-pies; and a pretty plover
of a stone colour, with a black hood. About the pond or lake behind the beach, a few wild-ducks
were seen; and some shags used to perch upon the high leafless trees near the shore."

"Some pretty large blackish snakes were seen in the woods; and we killed a large, hitherto
unknown, lizard, fifteen inches long, and six round, elegantly clouded with black and yellow;
besides a small sort, of a brown gilded colour above, and rusty below."

"The sea affords a much greater plenty, and at least as great a variety, as the land. Of these
the elephant fish, or pejegallo, mentioned in Frezier's voyage,[136] are the most numerous;
and though inferior to many other fish, were very palatable food. Several large rays, nurses,
and small leather-jackets, were caught; with some small white bream, which were firmer and
better than those caught in the lake. We likewise got a few soles and flounders; two sorts
of gurnards, one of them a new species; some small spotted mullet; and, very unexpectedly,
the small fish with a silver band on its side, called atherina hipsetus by Hasseiquist."[137]

[Footnote 136: Tom. ii. p. 211. 12mo. Planche XVII.]

[Footnote 137: Iter Palastinum.]

"But that next in number, and superior in goodness, to the elephant fish, was a sort none of
us recollected to have seen before. It partakes of the nature both of a round and of a flat
fish, having the eyes placed very near each other; the fore-part of the body much flattened
or depressed, and the rest rounded. It is of a brownish sandy colour, with rusty spots on the
upper part, and whitish below. From the quantity of slime it was always covered with, it seems
to live after the manner of flat fish, at the bottom."

"Upon the rocks are plenty of muscles, and some other small shell-fish. There are also great
numbers of sea-stars; some small limpets; and large quantities of sponge; one sort of which,
that is thrown on shore by the sea, but not very common, has a most delicate texture; and another,
is the spongia dichotoma."

"Many pretty Medusa's heads were found upon the beach; and the stinking laplysia or sea-hare,
which, as mentioned by some authors, has the property of taking off the hair by the acrimony
of its juice; but this sort was deficient in this respect."

"Insects, though not numerous, are here in considerable variety. Amongst them are grasshoppers,
butterflies, and several sorts of small moths, finely variegated. There are two sorts of dragon-flies,
gad-flies, camel-flies; several sorts of spiders; and some scorpions; but the last are rather
rare. The most troublesome, though not very numerous tribe of insects, are the musquitoes;
and a large black ant, the pain of whose bite is almost intolerable, during the short time
it lasts. The musquitoes, also, make up the deficiency of their number, by the severity of
their venomous proboscis."

"The inhabitants whom we met with here, had little of that fierce or wild appearance common
to people in their situation; but, on the contrary, seemed mild and cheerful, without reserve
or jealousy of strangers. This, however, may arise from their having little to lose or care for."

"With respect to personal activity or genius, we can say but little of either. They do not
seem to possess the first in any remarkable degree; and as for the last, they have, to appearance,
less than even the half-animated inhabitants of Terra del Fuego, who have not invention sufficient
to make clothing for defending themselves from the rigour of their climate, though furnished
with the materials. The small stick, rudely pointed, which one of them carried in his hand,
was the only thing we saw that required any mechanical exertion, if we except the fixing on
the feet of some of them pieces of kangooroo skin, tied with thongs; though it could not be
learnt whether these were in use as shoes, or only to defend some sore. It must be owned, however,
they are masters of some contrivance in the manner of cutting their arms and bodies in lines
of different lengths and directions, which are raised considerably above the surface of the
skin, so that it is difficult to guess the method they use in executing this embroidery of
their persons. Their not expressing that surprise which one might have expected from their
seeing men so much unlike themselves, and things, to which, we were well assured, they had
been hitherto utter strangers; their indifference for our presents; and their general inattention;
were sufficient proofs of their not possessing any acuteness of understanding."

"Their colour is a dull black, and not quite so deep as that of the African negroes. It should
seem also, that they sometimes heightened their black colour, by smutting their bodies; as
a mark was left behind on any clean substance, such as white paper, when they handled it. Their
hair, however, is perfectly woolly, and it is clotted or divided into small parcels, like that
of the Hottentots, with the use of some sort of grease, mixed with a red paint or ochre, which
they smear in great abundance over their heads. This practice, as some might imagine, has not
the effect of changing their hair into the frizzling texture we observed; for, on examining
the head of a boy, which appeared never to have been smeared, I found the hair to be of the
same kind. Their noses, though not flat, are broad and full. The lower part of the face projects
a good deal, as is the case of more Indians I have seen; so that a line let fall from the forehead
would cut off a much larger portion, than it would in Europeans. Their eyes are of a middling
size, with the white less clear than in us; and though not remarkably quick or piercing, such
as give a frank cheerful cast to the whole countenance. Their teeth are broad, but not equal,
nor well set; and, either from nature or from dirt, not of so true a white as is usual among
people of a black colour. Their mouths are rather wide; but this appearance seems heightened
by wearing their beards long, and clotted with paint, in the same manner as the hair on their
heads. In other respects, they are well-proportioned; though the belly seems rather projecting.
This may be owing to the want of compression there, which few nations do not use, more or less.
The posture of which they seem fondest, is to stand with one side forward, or the upper part
of the body gently reclined, and one hand grasping (across the back) the opposite arm, which
hangs down by the projecting side."

"What the ancient poets tell us of Fauns and Satyrs living in hollow trees, is here realized.
Some wretched constructions of sticks, covered with bark, which do not even deserve the name
of huts, were indeed found near the shore in the bay; but these seemed only to have been erected
for temporary purposes; and many of their largest trees were converted into more comfortable
habitations. These had their trunks hollowed out by fire, to the height of six or seven feet;
and that they take up their abode in them sometimes, was evident from the hearths, made of
clay, to contain the fire in the middle, leaving room for four or five persons to sit round
it.[138] At the same time, these places of shelter are durable; for they take care to leave
one side of the tree sound, which is sufficient to keep it growing as luxuriantly as those
which remain untouched."

[Footnote 138: Tasman, when in the bay of Frederick Henry, adjoining to Adventure Bay, found
two trees, one of which was two fathoms, and the other two fathoms and a half in girth, and
sixty or sixty-five feet high, from the root to the branches.--See his Voyage, in Harris's
Collection, Campbell's Edition, vol. i. p. 326.--D.]

"The inhabitants of this place are, doubtless, from the same stock with those of the northern
parts of New Holland. Though some of the circumstances mentioned by Dampier, relative to those
he met with on the western coast of this country, such as their defective sight, and want of
fore-teeth, are not found here; and though Hawkesworth's account of those met with by Captain
Cook on the east side, shews also that they differ in many respects; yet still, upon the whole,
I am persuaded that distance of place, entire separation, diversity of climate, and length
of time, all concurring to operate, will account for greater differences, both as to their
persons and as to their customs, than really exist between our Van Diemen's Land natives, and
those described by Dampier, and in Captain Cook's first voyage. This is certain, that the figure
of one of those seen in Endeavour River, and represented in Sidney Parkinson's Journal of that
voyage, very much resembles our visitors in Adventure Bay. That there is not the like resemblance
in their language, is a circumstance that need not create any difficulty. For though the agreement
of the languages of people living distant from each other, may be assumed as a strong argument
for their having sprung from one common source, disagreement of language is by no means a proof
of the contrary."[139]

[Footnote 139: The ingenious author of Récherches sur les Americains illustrates the grounds
of this assertion in the following satisfactory manner: "C'est quelque chose de surprenant,
que la foule des idiomes, tous variés entr'eux, que parlent les naturels de l'Amérique Septentrionale.
Qu'on reduise ces idiomes à des racines qu'on les simplifie, qu'on en separe les dialectes
et les jargons derivés, il en resulte toujours cinq ou six languesmeres, respectivement incomprehensibles.
On a observé la même singularité dans la Siberie et la Tartarie, où le nombre des idiomes,
et les dialectes, est également multiplié; et rien n'est plus commun, que d'y voir deux hordes
voisines qui ne se comprennent point. On rétrouve cette même multiplicité de jargons dans toutes
les Provinces de l'Amérique Méridionale." [He might also have included Africa.] "Il y a beaucoup
d'apparence que la vie sauvage, en dispersant les hommes par petites troupes isolées dans des
bois épais, occasione nécessairement cette grande diversité des langues, dont le nombre diminue
à mésure que la société, en rassemblant les barbares vagabonds, en forme un corps de nation.
Alors l'idiome le plus riche, ou le moins panvre en mots, devient dominant, et absorbe les
autres." Tom. i. p. 159, 160.--D.]

"However, we must have a far more intimate acquaintance with the languages spoken here, and
in the more northern parts of New Holland, before we can be warranted to pronounce that they
are totally different. Nay, we have good grounds for the opposite opinion; for we found that
the animal called kangooroo at Endeavour river, was known under the same name here; and I need
not observe, that it is scarcely possible to suppose that this was not transmitted from one
another, but accidentally adopted by two nations, differing in language and extraction. Besides,
as it seems very improbable that the Van Diemen's Land inhabitants should have ever lost the
use of canoes or sailing vessels, if they had been originally conveyed thither by sea, we must
necessarily admit that they, as well as the kangooroo itself, have been stragglers by land
from the more northern parts of the country. And if there be any force in this observation,
while it traces the origin of the people, it will, at the same time, serve to fix another point,
if Captain Cook and Captain Furneaux have not already decided it, that New Holland is no where
totally divided by the sea into islands, as some have imagined."[140]

[Footnote 140: The reader is aware of the erroneous opinion generally entertained at this time,
of Van Diemen's Land being connected with the continent of New Holland. He will therefore modify
the remark above given, as to its inhabitants being stragglers by land from the more northern
parts of the country. It is of some consequence also to inform him, that in the visit of D'Entrecasteaux,
it was found that the people who inhabited the shores of the channel were in possession of
bark canoes.--E.]

"As the New Hollanders seem all to be of the same extraction, so neither do I think there is
any thing peculiar in them. On the contrary, they much resemble many of the inhabitants whom
I have seen at the islands Tanna and Mallicolla. Nay, there is even some foundation for hazarding
a supposition, that they may have originally come from the same place with all the inhabitants
of the South Sea. For, of only about ten words which we could get from them, that which expresses
cold, differs little from that of New Zealand and Otaheite; the first being Mallareede, the
second Makkareede, and the third Mareede. The rest of our very scanty Van Diemen's Land Vocabulary
is as follows:

   Quadne,               A woman.
   Everai,               The eye.
   Muidje,               The nose.
   Kamy,                 The teeth, mouth, or tongue.
   Laerenne,             A small bird, a native of the woods here.
   Koygee,               The ear.
   Noonga,               Elevated scars on the body.
   Teegera,              To eat.
   Togarago,             I must begone, or, I will go.

"Their pronunciation is not disagreeable; but rather quick; though not more so than is that
of other nations of the South Sea; and, if we may depend upon the affinity of languages as
a clue to guide us in discovering the origin of nations, I have no doubt but we shall find,
on a diligent enquiry, and when opportunities offer to collect accurately a sufficient number
of these words, and to compare them, that all the people from New Holland, eastward to Easter
Island, have been derived from the same common root."[141]

[Footnote 141: We find Mr Anderson's notions on this subject conformable to those of Mr Marsden,
who has remarked, "that one general language prevailed (however mutilated and changed in the
course of time) throughout all this portion of the world, from Madagascar to the most distant
discoveries eastward; of which the Malay is a dialect, much corrupted or refined by a mixture
of other tongues. This very extensive similarity of language indicates a common origin of the
inhabitants; but the circumstances and progress of their separation are wrapped in the darkest
veil of obscurity."--History of Sumatra, p. 35.

At eight o'clock in the morning of the 30th of January, a light breeze springing up at W.,
we weighed anchor, and put to sea from Adventure Bay. Soon after, the wind veered to the southward,
and increased to a perfect storm. Its fury abated in the evening, when it veered to the E, and N.E.

This gale was indicated by the barometer, for the wind no sooner began to blow, than the mercury
in the tube began to fall. Another remarkable thing attended the coming on of this wind, which
was very faint at first. It brought with it a degree of heat that was almost intolerable. The
mercury in the thermometer rose, as it were instantaneously, from about 70° to near 90°. This
heat was of so short a continuance, that it seemed to be wafted away before the breeze that
brought it; so that some on board did not perceive it.

We pursued our course to the eastward, without meeting with any thing worthy of note, till
the night between the 6th and 7th of February, when a marine belonging to the Discovery fell
over-board, and was never seen afterward. This was the second misfortune of the kind that had
happened to Captain Clerke since he left England.

On the 10th, at four in the afternoon, we discovered the land of New Zealand. The part we saw
proved to be Rock's Point, and bore S.E. by S., about eight or nine leagues distant. During
this run from Van Diemen's Land, the wind, for the first four or five days, was at N.E., N.,
and N.N.W., and blew, for the most part, a gentle breeze. It afterward veered to S.E., where
it remained twenty-four hours. It then came to W. and S.W.; in which points it continued, with
very little deviation, till we reached New Zealand.

After making the land, I steered for Cape Farewell, which at day-break the next morning bore
S. by W., distant about four leagues. At eight o'clock, it bore S.W. by S., about five leagues
distant; and, in this situation, we had forty-five fathoms water over a sandy bottom. In rounding
the Cape we had fifty fathoms, and the same sort of bottom.

I now steered for Stephens's Island, which we came up with at nine o'clock at night; and at
ten, next morning, anchored in our old station, in Queen Charlotte's Sound. Unwilling to lose
any time, our operations commenced that very afternoon, when we landed a number of empty water-casks,
and began to clear a place where we might set up the two observatories, and tents for the reception
of a guard, and of such of our people whose business might make it necessary for them to remain
on shore.

We had not been long at anchor before several canoes, filled-with natives, came along-side
of the ships; but very few of them would venture on board; which appeared the more extraordinary,
as I was well known to them all. There w as one man in particular amongst them, whom I had
treated with remarkable kindness, during the whole of my stay when I was last here. Yet now,
neither professions of friendship, nor presents, could prevail upon him to come into the ship.
This shyness was to be accounted for only upon this supposition, that they were apprehensive
we had revisited their country, in order to revenge the death of Captain Furneaux's people.
Seeing Omai on board my ship now, whom they must have remembered to have seen on board the
Adventure when the melancholy affair happened, and whose first conversation with them, as they
approached, generally turned on that subject, they must be well assured that I was no longer
a stranger to it. I thought it necessary, therefore, to use every endeavour to assure them
of the continuance of my friendship, and that I should not disturb them on that account. I
do not know whether this had any weight with them; but certain it is, that they very soon laid
aside all manner of restraint and distrust.

On the 13th we set up two tents, one from each ship, on the same spot where we had pitched
them formerly. The observatories were at the same time erected; and Messrs King and Bayly began
their operations immediately, to find the rate of the time-keeper, and to make other observations.
The remainder of the empty water-casks were also sent on shore, with the cooper to trim, and
a sufficient number of sailors to fill them. Two men were appointed to brew spruce beer; and
the carpenter and his crew were ordered to cut wood. A boat, with a party of men, under the
direction of one of the mates, was sent to collect grass for our cattle; and the people that
remained on board were employed in refitting the ship, and arranging the provisions. In this
manner we were all profitably busied during our stay. For the protection of the party on shore,
I appointed a guard of ten marines, and ordered arms for all the workmen; and Mr King, and
two or three petty officers, constantly remained with them. A boat was never sent to any considerable
distance from the ships without being armed, and under direction of such officers as I could
depend upon, and who were well acquainted with the natives. During my former visits to this
country, I had never taken some of these precautions; nor were they, I firmly believe, more
necessary now than they had been formerly. But after the tragical fate of the Adventure's boat's
crew in this sound, and of Captain Marion du Fresne, and of some of his people, in the Bay
of Islands (in 1772), it was impossible totally to divest ourselves of all apprehension of
experiencing a similar calamity.

If the natives entertained any suspicion of our revenging these acts of barbarity, they very
soon laid it aside. For, during the course of this day, a great number of families came from
different parts or the coast, and took up their residence close to us; so that there was not
a spot in the cove where a hut could be put up, that was not occupied by them, except the place
where we had fixed our little encampment. This they left us in quiet possession of; but they
came and took away the ruins of some old huts that were there, as materials for their new erections.

It is curious to observe with what facility they build these occasional places of abode. I
have seen above twenty of them erected on a spot of ground, that, not an hour before, was covered
with shrubs and plants. They generally bring some part of the materials with them; the rest
they find upon the premises. I was present when a number of people landed, and built one of
these villages. The moment the canoes reached the shore, the men leaped out, and at once took
possession of a piece of ground, by tearing up the plants and shrubs, or sticking up some part
of the framing of a hut. They then returned to their canoes, and secured their weapons, by
setting them up against a tree, or placing them in such a position, that they could be laid
hold of in an instant. I took particular notice that no one neglected this precaution. While
the men were employed in raising the huts, the women were not idle. Some were stationed to
take care of the canoes; others to secure the provisions, and the few utensils in their possession;
and the rest went to gather dry sticks, that a fire might be prepared for dressing their victuals.
As to the children, I kept them, as also some of the more aged, sufficiently occupied in scrambling
for beads, till I had emptied my pockets, and then I left them.

These temporary habitations are abundantly sufficient to afford shelter from the wind and rain,
which is the only purpose they are meant to answer. I observed that, generally, if not always,
the same tribe or family, though it were ever so large, associated and built together; so that
we frequently saw a village, as well as their larger towns, divided into different districts,
by low pallisades, or some similar mode of separation.

The advantage we received from the natives coming to live with us, was not inconsiderable.
For, every day, when the weather would permit, some of them went out to catch fish; and we
generally got, by exchanges, a good share of the produce of their labours. This supply, and
what our own nets and lines afforded us, was so ample, that we seldom were in want of fish.
Nor was there any deficiency of other refreshments. Celery, scurvy-grass, and portable soup
were boiled with the pease and wheat, for both ships' companies, every day daring our whole
stay; and they had spruce-beer for their drink. So that, if any of our people had contracted
the seeds of the scurvy, such a regimen soon removed them. But the truth is, when we arrived
here, there were only two invalids (and these on board the Resolution) upon the sick lists
in both ships.

Besides the natives who took up their abode close to us, we were occasionally visited by others
of them, whose residence was not far off; and by some who lived more remote. Their articles
of commerce were, curiosities, fish, and women. The two first always came to a good market,
which the latter did not. The seamen had taken a kind of dislike to these people, and were
either unwilling, or afraid, to associate with them; which produced this good effect, that
I knew no instance of a man's quitting his station, to go to their habitations.

A connection with women I allow, because I cannot prevent it; but never encourage, because
I always dread its consequences. I know, indeed, that many men are of opinion, that such an
intercourse is one of our greatest securities amongst savages; and perhaps they who, either
from necessity or choice, are to remain and settle with them, may find it so. But with travellers
and transient visitors, such as we were, it is generally otherwise; and, in our situation,
a connection with their women betrays more men than it saves. What else can be reasonably expected,
since all their views are selfish, without the least mixture of regard or attachment? My own
experience, at least, which hath been pretty extensive, hath not pointed out to me one instance
to the contrary.[142]

[Footnote 142: We ought to distinguish betwixt the affection of the sexes, and those gross
physical principles which lead to their temporary intercourse. The latter exist, in some degree
or other, wherever the difference of sex is found; but the former is the result of refinement
in feeling, and a habit of reflection on objects of common interest, which civilization alone
can produce. This is with respect to members of the same community; much more does the rule
hold where strangers are concerned. It is positively absurd for them to expect affection, where
the lawful and accustomed possessors of the she-savage have never yet been fortunate enough
to elicit its display. Well, therefore, has Captain Cook remarked, that the motives which lead
to their occasional connexion are selfish, by which must be understood, the mercenary nature
of the principle which actuates the female.--E.]

Amongst our occasional visitors was a chief named Kahoora, who, as I was informed, headed the
party that cut off Captain Furneaux's people, and himself killed Mr Howe, the officer who commanded.
To judge of the character of Kahoora, by what I heard from many of his countrymen, he seemed
to be more feared than beloved amongst them. Not satisfied with telling me that he was a very
bad man, some of them even importuned me to kill him; and, I believe, they were not a little
surprised that I did not listen to them; for, according to their ideas of equity, this ought
to have been done. But if I had followed the advice of all our pretended friends, I might have
extirpated the whole race; for the people of each hamlet, or village, by turns, applied to
me to destroy the other. One would have almost thought it impossible, that so striking a proof
of the divided state in which this miserable people live, could have been assigned. And yet
I was sure that I did not misconceive the meaning of those who made these strange applications
to me; for Omai, whose language was a dialect of their own, and perfectly understood all that
they said, was our interpreter.

On the 15th, I made an excursion in my boat to look for grass, and visited the Hippah, or fortified
village at the S.W. point of Motuara, and the places where our gardens had been planted on
that island. There were no people at the former; but the houses and pallisades had been rebuilt,
and were now in a state of good repair; and there were other evident marks of its having been
inhabited not long before. It would be unnecessary, at present, to give a particular account
of this Hippah, sufficient notice having been taken of it in the account of my first voyage.

When the Adventure arrived first at Queen Charlotte's Sound, in 1773, Mr Bayly fixed upon this
place for making his observations; and he, and the people with him, at their leisure hours,
planted several spots with English garden seeds. Not the least vestige of these now remained.
It is probable that they had been all rooted out to make room for buildings, when the village
was re-inhabited; for, at all the other gardens then planted by Captain Furneaux, although
now wholly over-run with the weeds of the country, we found cabbages, onions, leeks, purslain,
radishes, mustard, &c. and a few potatoes. These potatoes, which were first brought from the
Cape of Good Hope, had been greatly improved by change of soil; and, with proper cultivation,
would be superior to those produced in most other countries. Though the New Zealanders are
fond of this root, it was evident that they had not taken the trouble to plant a single one
(much less any other of the articles which we had introduced); and if it were not for the difficulty
of clearing ground where potatoes had been once planted, there would not have been any now
remaining.

On the 16th, at day-break, I set out with a party of men, in five boats, to collect food for
our cattle. Captain Clerke, and several of the officers, Omai, and two of the natives, accompanied
me. We proceeded about three leagues up the sound, and then landed on the east side, at a place
where I had formerly been. Here we cut as much grass as loaded the two launches.

As we returned down the sound, we visited Grass Cove, the memorable scene of the massacre of
Captain Furneaux's people. Here I met with my old friend Pedro, who was almost continually
with me the last time I was in this sound, and is mentioned in my History of that Voyage. He,
and another of his countrymen, received us on the beach, armed with the pa-too and spear. Whether
this form of reception was a mark of their courtesy or of their fear, I cannot say; but I thought
they betrayed manifest signs of the latter. However, if they had any apprehensions, a few presents
soon removed them, and brought down to the beach two or three more of the family; but the greatest
part of them remained out of sight.

Whilst we were at this place, our curiosity prompted us to enquire into the circumstances attending
the melancholy fate of our countrymen; and Omai was made use of as our interpreter for this
purpose. Pedro, and the rest of the natives present, answered all the questions that were put
to them on the subject, without reserve, and like men who are under no dread of punishment
for a crime of which they are not guilty. For we already knew that none of them had been concerned
in the unhappy transaction. They told us, that while our people were sitting at dinner, surrounded
by several of the natives, some of the latter stole, or snatched from them, some bread and
fish, for which they were beat. This being resented, a quarrel ensued, and two New Zealanders
were shot dead, by the only two musquets that were fired. For before our people had time to
discharge a third, or to load again those that had been fired, the natives rushed in upon them,
overpowered them with their numbers, and put them all to death. Pedro and his companions, besides
relating the history of the massacre, made us acquainted with the very spot that was the scene
of it. It is at the corner of the cove on the right hand. They pointed to the place of the
sun, to mark to us at what hour of the day it happened; and, according to this, it must have
been late in the afternoon. They also shewed us the place where the boat lay; and it appeared
to be about two hundred yards distant from that where the crew were seated. One of their number,
a black servant of Captain Furneaux, was left in the boat to take care of her.

We were afterward told that this black was the cause of the quarrel, which was said to have
happened thus: One of the natives stealing something out of the boat, the Negro gave him a
severe blow with a stick. The cries of the fellow being heard by his countrymen at a distance,
they imagined he was killed, and immediately began the attack on our people; who, before they
had time to reach the boat, or to arm themselves against the unexpected impending danger, fell
a sacrifice to the fury of their savage assailants.

The first of these accounts was confirmed by the testimony of many of the natives whom we conversed
with at different times, and who, I think, could have no interest in deceiving us. The second
manner of relating the transaction, rests upon the authority of the young New Zealander, who
chose to abandon his country and go away with us, and who, consequently, could have no possible
view in disguising the truth. All agreeing that the quarrel happened when the boat's crew were
sitting at their meal, it is highly probable that both accounts are true, as they perfectly
coincide. For we may very naturally suppose, that while some of the natives were stealing from
the man who had been left in the boat, others of them might take the same liberties with the
property of our people who were on shore.

Be this as it will, all agree that the quarrel first took its rise from some thefts, in the
commission of which the natives were detected. All agree, also, that there was no premeditated
plan of bloodshed, and that, if these thefts had not been unfortunately too hastily resented
no mischief would have happened. For Kahoora's greatest enemies, those who solicited his destruction
most earnestly, at the same time confessed that he had no intention to quarrel, much less to
kill, till the fray had actually commenced. It also appears that the unhappy victims were under
no sort of apprehension of their fate, otherwise they never would have ventured to sit down
to a repast at so considerable a distance from their boat, amongst people who were the next
moment to be their murderers. What became of the boat I never could learn. Some said she was
pulled to pieces and burnt, others told us that she was carried, they knew not whither, by
a party of strangers.

We stayed here till the evening, when, having loaded the rest of the boats with grass, celery,
scurvy-grass, &c. we embarked to return to the ships. We had prevailed upon Pedro to launch
his canoe, and accompany us; but we had scarcely put off from the shore when the wind began
to blow very hard at N.W., which obliged him to put back, We proceeded ourselves, but it was
with a good deal of difficulty that we could reach the ships, where some of the boats did not
arrive till one o'clock the next morning; and it was fortunate that they got on board then,
for it afterward blew a perfect storm, with abundance of rain, so that no manner of work could
go forward that day. In the evening the gale ceased, and the wind, having veered to the E.,
brought with it fair weather.

The next day we resumed our works; the natives ventured out to catch fish; and Pedro, with
all his family, came and took up his abode near us. The chief's proper name is Matahouah; the
other being given him by some of my people during my last voyage, which I did not know till
now. He was, however, equally well known amongst his countrymen by both names.

On the 20th, in the forenoon, we had another storm from, the N.W. Though this was not of so
long continuance as the former, the gusts of wind from the hills were far more violent, insomuch
that we were obliged to strike the yards and top-masts to the very utmost; and, even with all
this precaution, it was with difficulty that we rode it out. These storms are very frequent
here, and sometimes violent and troublesome. The neighbouring mountains, which at these times
are always loaded with vapours, not only increase the force of the wind, but alter its direction
in such a manner, that no two blasts follow each other from the same quarter; and the nearer
the shore, the more their effects are felt.

The next day we were visited by a tribe or family, consisting of about thirty persons, men,
women and children, who came from the upper part of the Sound. I had never seen them before.
The name of their chief was Tomatongeauooranuc, a man of about forty-five years of age, with
a cheerful open countenance; and, indeed, the rest of his tribe were, in general, the handsomest
of the New Zealand race I had ever met with.

By this time more than two-thirds of the inhabitants, of the Sound had settled themselves about
us. Great numbers of them daily frequented the ships, and the encampment on shore; but the
latter became, by far, the most favourite place of resort, while our people there were melting
some seal blubber. No Greenlander was ever fonder of train-oil than our friends here seemed
to be. They relished the very skimmings of the kettle, and dregs of the casks; but a little
of the pure stinking oil was a delicious feast, so eagerly desired, that I suppose it is seldom
enjoyed.

Having got on board as much hay and grass as we judged sufficient to serve the cattle till
our arrival at Otaheite, and having completed the wood and water of both ships, on the 23d
we struck our tents, and carried every thing off from the shore, and next morning we weighed
anchor, and stood out of the cove. But the wind not being very fair, and finding that the tide
of ebb would be spent before we could get out of the Sound, we cast anchor again a little without
the island Motuara, to wait for a more favourable opportunity of putting into the strait.

While we were unmooring and getting under sail, Tomatongeauooranuc, Matahouah, and many more
of the natives, came to take their leave of us, or rather to obtain, if they could, some additional
presents from us before we left them. These two chiefs became suitors to me for some goats
and hogs. Accordingly, I gave to Matahouah two goats, a male, and female with kid; and to Tomatongeauooranuc
two pigs, a boar and a sow. They made me a promise not to kill them; though, I must own, I
put no great faith in this. The animals which Captain Furneaux sent on shore here, and which
soon after fell into the hands of the natives, I was now told were all dead; but I could get
no intelligence about the fate of those I had left in West Bay, and in Cannibal Cove, when
I was here in the course of my last voyage. However, all the natives whom I conversed with,
agreed, that poultry are now to be met with wild in the woods behind Ship Cove; and I was afterward
informed, by the two youths who went away with us, that Tiratou, a popular chief amongst them,
had a great many cocks and hens in his separate possession, and one of the sows.

On my present arrival at this place, I fully intended to have left not only goats and hogs,
but sheep, and a young bull, with two heifers, if I could have found either a chief powerful
enough to protect and keep them, or a place where there might be a probability of their being
concealed from those who would ignorantly attempt to destroy them. But neither the one nor
the other presented itself to me. Tiratou was now absent; and Tringoboohee, whom I had met
with during my last voyage, and who seemed to be a person of much consequence at that time,
had been killed five months ago, with about seventy persons of his tribe; and I could not learn
that there now remained in our neighbourhood any tribe, whose numbers could secure to them
a superiority of power over the rest of their countrymen. To have given the animals to any
of the natives who possessed no such power, would not have answered the intention; for in a
country like this, where no man's property is secure, they would soon have fallen a prey to
different parties, and been either separated or killed, but most likely both. This was so evident,
from what we had observed since our arrival, that I had resolved to leave no kind of animal
till Matahouah and the other chief solicited me for the hogs and goats. As I could spare them,
I let them go, to take their chance. I have at different times, left in New Zealand not less
than ten or a dozen hogs, besides those put on shore by Captain Furneaux. It will be a little
extraordinary, therefore, if this race should not increase and be preserved here, either in
a wild or in a domestic state, or in both.

We had not been long at anchor near Motuara, before three or four canoes, filled with natives,
came off to us from the S.E. side of the sound; and a brisk trade was carried on with them
for the curiosities of this place. In one of these canoes was Kahoora, whom I have already
mentioned as the leader of the party who cut off the crew of the Adventure's boat. This was
the third time he had visited us, without betraying the smallest appearance of fear. I was
ashore when he now arrived, but had got on board just as he was going away. Omai, who had returned
with me, presently pointed him out, and solicited me to shoot him. Not satisfied with this,
he addressed himself to Kahoora, threatening to be his executioner if ever he presumed to visit
us again.

The New Zealander paid so little regard to these threats, that he returned the next morning
with his whole family, men, women, and children, to the number of twenty and upward. Omai was
the first who acquainted me with his being along-side the ship, and desired to know if he should
ask him to come on board. I told him he might; and accordingly he introduced the chief into
the cabin, saying, "There is Kahoora, kill him!" But, as if he had forgot his former threats,
or were afraid that I should call upon him to perform them, he immediately retired. In a short
time, however, he returned; and seeing the chief unhurt, he expostulated with me very earnestly,
saying, "Why do you not kill him? You tell me, if a man kills another in England that he is
hanged for it. This man has killed ten, and yet you will not kill him, though many of his countrymen
desire it, and it would be very good." Omai's arguments, though specious enough, having no
weight with me, I desired him to ask the chief why he had killed Captain Furneaux's people?
At this question, Kahoora folded his arms, hung down his head, and looked like one caught in
a trap; and I firmly believe he expected instant death. But no sooner was he assured of his
safety, than he became cheerful. He did not, however, seem willing to give me an answer to
the question that had been put to him, till I had, again and again, repeated my promise that
he should not be hurt. Then he ventured to tell us, "That one of his countrymen having brought
a stone hatchet to barter, the man, to whom it was offered, took it, and would neither return
it, nor give any thing for it; on which the owner of it snatched up the bread as an equivalent,
and then the quarrel began."

The remainder of Kahoora's account of this unhappy affair, differed very little from what we
had before learnt from the rest of his countrymen. He mentioned the narrow escape he had during
the fray; a musquet being levelled at him, which he avoided by skulking behind the boat; and
another man, who stood close to him, was shot dead. As soon as the musquet was discharged,
he instantly seized the opportunity to attack Mr Rowe, who commanded the party, and who defended
himself with his hanger, (with which he wounded Kahoora in the arm,) till he was overpowered
by numbers.

Mr Burney, who was sent by Captain Furneaux the next day, with an armed party, to look for
his missing people, upon discovering the horrid proofs of their shocking fate, had fired several
vollies amongst the crowds of natives who still remained assembled on the spot, and were probably
partaking of the detestable banquet. It was natural to suppose that he had not fired in vain;
and that, therefore, some of the murderers and devourers of our unhappy countrymen had suffered
under our just resentment. Upon enquiry, however, into this matter, not only from Kahoora,
but from others who had opportunities of knowing, it appeared that our supposition was groundless,
and that not one of the shot fired by Mr Burney's people had taken effect, so as to kill, or
even to hurt, a single person.[143]

[Footnote 143: Mr Burney was not warranted in firing. It was not possible for him, at the time,
to know whether or not his comrades had been justly punished for aggressions on the savages.
He acted, therefore, from the impulse of blind revenge. But such a motive, though natural enough
it may be, must, nevertheless, be condemned by every law recognised among civilized nations.
Even his observing these people engaged in feasting on the victims of their fury, much indeed
as it would necessarily augment his abhorrence, could not be allowed a sufficient plea for
his attacking them; because the principles which ought to govern the conduct of a member of
such a society as he belonged to, are indiscriminately imperative in their nature, and do not
allow any latitude of dispensation to an individual. The only thing that warrants the violation
of them, is the necessity imposed by a still higher law,--that of preserving his own existence.
But, in the present instance, it does not appear that he was in any danger.--E.]

It was evident, that most of the natives we had met with since our arrival, as they knew I
was fully acquainted with the history of the massacre, expected I should avenge it with the
death of Kahoora. And many of them seemed not only to wish it, but expressed their surprise
at my forbearance. As he could not be ignorant of this, it was a matter of wonder to me that
he put himself so often in my power. When he visited us while the ships lay in the cove, confiding
in the number of his friends that accompanied him, he might think himself safe; but his two
last visits had been made under such circumstances, that he could no longer rely upon this.
We were then at anchor in the entrance of the sound, and at some distance from any shore; so
that he could not have any assistance from thence, nor flatter himself he could have the means
of making his escape, had I determined to detain him. And yet, after his first fears, on being
interrogated, were over, he was so far from entertaining any uneasy sensations, that, on seeing
a portrait of one of his countrymen hanging up in the cabin, he desired to have his own portrait
drawn; and sat till Mr Webber had finished it, without marking the least impatience. I must
confess I admired his courage, and was not a little pleased to observe the extent of the confidence
he put in me; for he placed his whole safety in the declarations I had uniformly made to those
who solicited his death, That I had always been a friend to them all, and would continue so,
unless they gave me cause to act otherwise; that as to their inhuman treatment of our people,
I should think no more of it, the transaction having happened long ago, and when I was not
present; but that, if ever they made a second attempt of that kind, they might rest assured
of feeling the weight of my resentment.[144]

[Footnote 144: Here Captain Cook acted wisely; and, indeed, throughout the whole transaction,
his conduct merits the highest applause. To resist the solicitations of envy and revenge, where
acquiescence would have proved so availing to his reputation, and so secure in its display,
implied a conscientious regard to an invisible authority, which must ever be allowed to constitute
a feature of excellence in any man to whom power is committed. His threatening is not to be
considered as any exception to what is now said in his praise, being, in fact, a beneficial
intimation calculated to secure subjection to a necessary law. Here it may not be amiss to
remark, that savages, little as some men think of them, are possessed of all the faculties
of human nature; and that conscience, that principle, which, more than reason, characterizes
our species, has as true and as efficient an existence in their breasts. Now this always respects
a superior power, and is the source of that indescribable dread of some opposing and awful
agency, which never fails to visit the transgressor of its dictates. We must not, however,
ascribe to it every apprehension of danger with which the mind is occasionally disturbed. There
is a sort of fear of evil which seems common to us with the lower animals, and which cannot
therefore be imagined to have any connection with moral delinquency. This latter, it is probable,
was all that Kahoora experienced in his first interview with Cook after the massacre; and hence
his apprehensions would easily be subdued by the assurances which that gentleman made him.
In fact, from the facility of his confidence, we may almost certainly infer his consciousness
of innocence, notwithstanding his share in the commission of the deed. This implies no inconsistency,
as every thinking person will at once perceive; for it must be remembered, that there is no
evidence whatever as to any design or premeditated plan on the part of the savages. Had his
dread been of the former kind, it is scarcely conceivable that the utmost assurances of indemnity
which Cook could give, would have produced so unaffected a manifestation of ease as is described.--E.]

For some time before we arrived at New Zealand, Omai had expressed a desire to take one of
the natives with him to his own country. We had not been there many days before he had an opportunity
of being gratified in this; for a youth, about seventeen or eighteen years of age, named Taweiharooa,
offered to accompany him, and took up his residence on board. I paid little attention to this
at first, imagining that he would leave us when we were about to depart, and after he had got
what he could from Omai. At length, finding that he was fixed in his resolution to go with
us, and having learnt that he was the only son of a deceased chief, and that his mother, still
living, was a woman much respected here, I was apprehensive that Omai had deceived him and
his friends, by giving them hopes and assurances of his being sent back. I therefore caused
it to be made known to them all, that if the young man went away with us he would never return.
But this declaration seemed to make no sort of impression. The afternoon before we left the
cove, Tiratoutou, his mother, came on board, to receive her last present from Omai. The same
evening she and Taweiharooa parted, with all the marks of tender affection that might be expected
between a parent and a child, who were never to meet again. But she said she would cry no more;
and, sure enough, she kept her word. For when she returned the next morning, to take her last
farewell of him, all the time she was on board she remained quite cheerful, and went away wholly
unconcerned.

That Taweiharooa might be sent away in a manner becoming his birth, another youth was to have
gone with him as his servant; and, with this view, as we supposed, he remained on board till
we were about to sail, when his friends took him ashore. However, his place was supplied next
morning by another, a boy of about nine or ten years of age, named Kokoa. He was presented
to me by his own father, who, I believe, would have parted with his dog with far less indifference.
The very little clothing the boy had he stript him of, and left him as naked as he was born.
It was to no purpose that I endeavoured to convince these people of the improbability, or rather
of the impossibility, of these youths ever returning home. Not one, not even their nearest
relations, seemed to trouble themselves about their future fate. Since this was the case, and
I was well satisfied that the boys would be no losers by exchange of place, I the more readily
gave my consent to their going.

From my own observations, and from the information of Taweiharooa and others, it appears to
me that the New Zealanders must live under perpetual apprehensions of being destroyed by each
other; there being few of their tribes that have not, as they think, sustained wrongs from
some other tribe, which they are continually upon the watch to revenge. And, perhaps, the desire
of a good meal may be no small incitement. I am told that many years sometimes elapse before
a favourable opportunity happens, and that the son never loses sight of an injury that has
been done to his father.[145] Their method of executing their horrible designs, is by stealing
upon the adverse party in the night; and if they find them unguarded, (which, however, I believe,
is very seldom the case,) they kill every one indiscriminately; not even sparing the women
and children. When the massacre is completed, they either feast and gorge themselves on the
spot, or carry off as many of the dead bodies as they can, and devour them at home, with acts
of brutality too shocking to be described. If they are discovered before they can execute their
bloody purpose, they generally steal off again, and sometimes are pursued and attacked by the
other party in their turn. To give quarter, or to take prisoners, makes no part of their military
law; so that the vanquished can only save their lives by flight. This perpetual state of war,
and destructive method of conducting it, operates so strongly in producing habitual circumspection,
that one hardly ever finds a New Zealander off his guard either by night or by day. Indeed,
no other man can have such powerful motives to be vigilant, as the preservation both of body
and of soul depends upon it; for, according to their system of belief, the soul of the man
whose flesh is devoured by the enemy, is doomed to a perpetual fire, while the soul of the
man whose body has been rescued from those who killed him, as well as the souls of all who
die a natural death, ascend to the habitations of the gods. I asked, Whether they eat the flesh
of such of their friends as had been killed in war, but whose bodies were saved from falling
into the enemy's hands? They seemed surprised at the question, which they answered in the negative,
expressing some abhorrence at the very idea. Their common method of disposing of their dead,
is by depositing their bodies in the earth; but if they have more of their slaughtered enemies
than they can eat, they throw them into the sea.

[Footnote 145: Every reader almost will here recollect, that a similar disposition to perpetuate
grievances has been found to operate in all barbarous nations, and indeed amongst many people
who lay great claims to refinement in civilization. It will be found, in truth, too strong
an effort for most men's charity, to regard with perfect impartiality either a person or a
nation whom their fathers had pointed out as an enemy. On the great scale of the world, we
see it is the nearly inevitable consequence of war to generate malicious feelings. In addition,
then, to some contrariety of interest, to some real or imaginary aggression, or even a bare
possibility of being injured, it is almost enough, at any time, for the commencement of a new
struggle betwixt rival nations, that one, or both of them, remember they were formerly at variance.
Nor is it at all requisite for due rancour in such cases, that politicians explain the grounds
of the quarrel, and aggravate the enormous injustice of the opponent, or prove his readiness
to do mischief. The animosity is already conceived, and waits only the removal of the gauze-like
partition, to be able, with greater certainty of effect, to guide its instruments of destruction.
"Hear," says Mr Ferguson, in his essay on this subject, "hear the peasants on different sides
of the Alps, and the Pyrenees, the Rhyne, or the British channel, give vent to their prejudices
and national passions; it is among them that we find the materials of war and dissension laid
without the direction of government, and sparks ready to kindle into a flame, which the statesman
is frequently disposed to extinguish. The fire will not always catch where his reasons of state
would direct, nor stop where the concurrence of interest has produced an alliance. 'My father,'
said a Spanish peasant, 'would rise from his grave if he could foresee a war with France.'
What interest had he, or the bones of his father, in the quarrels of princes?" The answer might
easily be given by another anecdote. During a parley betwixt the leaders of two rival Highland
clans, which had for its object the peaceable termination of their differences, a subordinate
officer, not relishing the unusual homily, went up to his chief in a rage, and upbraided him
for delaying the combat. "Don't you see," says he, brandishing his claymore, "that the sun
is almost set?--we'll no hae half time to kill thae rascals!" The peasant naturally enough
wished that his father might rise again to take his share in the delightful work of slaughter.
Pray, what childish scruples withhold persons of such keen appetites from occasionally taking
a belly-full of their enemy's flesh?--E.]

They have no such thing as morais, or other places of public worship; nor do they ever assemble
together with this view. But they have priests, who alone address the gods in prayer for the
prosperity of their temporal affairs, such as an enterprise against a hostile tribe, a fishing
party, or the like.

Whatever the principles of their religion may be, of which we remain very ignorant, its instructions
are very strongly inculcated into them from their very infancy. Of this I saw a remarkable
instance, in the youth who was first destined to accompany Taweiharooa. He refrained from eating
the greatest part of the day, on account of his hair being cut, though every method was tried
to induce him to break his resolution, and he was tempted with the offer of such victuals as
he was known to esteem the most. He said, if he eat any thing that day the Eatooa would kill
him. However, toward evening, the cravings of nature got the better of the precepts of his
religion, and he ate, though but sparingly. I had often conjectured, before this, that they
had some superstitious notions about their hair, having frequently observed quantities of it
tied to the branches of trees near some of their habitations; but what these notions are I
could never learn.

Notwithstanding the divided and hostile state in which the New Zealanders live, travelling
strangers, who come with no ill design, are well received and entertained during their stay;
which, however, it is expected will be no longer than is requisite to transact the business
they come upon. Thus it is that a trade for poenammoo, or green talc, is carried on throughout
the whole northern island. For they tell us, that there is none of this stone to be found but
at a place which bears its name, somewhere about the head of Queen Charlotte's Sound, and not
above one or two days journey, at most, from the station of our ships. I regretted much that
I could not spare time sufficient for paying a visit to the place; as we were told a hundred
fabulous stories about this stone, not one of which carried with it the least probability of
truth, though some of their most sensible men would have us believe them. One of these stories
is, that this stone is originally a fish, which they strike with a gig in the water, tie a
rope to it, and drag it to the shore, to which they fasten it, and it afterwards becomes stone.
As they all agree that it is fished out of a large lake, or collection of waters, the most
probable conjecture is, that it is brought from the mountains, and deposited in the water by
the torrents. This lake is called by the natives Tavai Poenammoo, that is, the Water of Green
Talc; and it is only the adjoining part of the country, and not the whole southern island of
New Zealand, that is known to them by the name which hath been given to it on my chart.

Polygamy is allowed amongst these people; and it is not uncommon for a man to have two or three
wives. The women are marriageable at a very early age; and it should seem, that one who is
unmarried, is but in a forlorn state. She can with difficulty get a subsistence; at least she
is, in a great measure, without a protector, though in constant want of a powerful one.

The New Zealanders seem to be a people perfectly satisfied with the little knowledge they are
masters of, without attempting, in the least, to improve it. Nor are they remarkably curious,
either in their observations or their enquiries. New objects do not strike them with such a
degree of surprise as one would naturally expect; nor do they even fix their attention for
a moment. Omai, indeed, who was a great favourite with them, would sometimes attract a circle
about him; but they seemed to listen to his speeches like persons who neither understood, nor
wished to understand, what they heard.

One day, on our enquiring of Taweiharooa, how many ships, such as ours, had ever arrived in
Queen Charlotte's Sound, or in any part of its neighbourhood? he began with giving an account
of one absolutely unknown to us. This, he said, had put into a port on the N.W. coast of Teerawitte,
but a very few years before I arrived in the Sound in the Endeavour, which the New Zealanders
distinguish by calling it Tupia's ship. At first, I thought he might have been mistaken as
to the time and place; and that the ship in question might be either Monsieur Surville's, who
is said to have touched upon the N.E. coast of Eaheinomauwe, the same year I was there in the
Endeavour; or else Monsieur Marion du Fresne's, who was in the Bay of Islands, on the same
coast, a few years after. But he assured us that he was not mistaken, either as to the time,
or as to the place of this ship's arrival, and that it was well known to every body about Queen
Charlotte's Sound and Teerawitte. He said, that the captain of her, during his stay here, cohabited
with a woman of the country; and that she had a son by him still living, about the age of Kokoa,
who, though not born then, seemed to be equally well acquainted with the story. We were also
informed by Taweiharooa, that this ship first introduced the venereal disease amongst the New
Zealanders. I wish that subsequent visitors from Europe may not have their share of guilt in
leaving so dreadful a remembrance of them amongst this unhappy race. The disorder now is but
too common here, though they do not seem to regard it, saying, that its effects are not near
so pernicious at present as they were at its first appearance. The only method, as far as I
ever heard, that they make use of as a remedy, is by giving the patient the use of a sort of
hot bath, which they produce by the steam of certain green plants laid over hot stones.

I regretted much that we did not hear of this ship while we were in the sound; as, by means
of Omai, we might have had full and correct information about her from eyewitnesses. For Taweiharooa's
account was only from what he had been told, and therefore liable to many mistakes. I have
not the least doubt, however, that his testimony may so far be depended upon, as to induce
us to believe that a ship really had been at Teerawitte prior to my arrival in the Endeavour,
as it corresponds with what I had formerly heard. For in the latter end of 1773, the second
time I visited New Zealand, during my late voyage, when we were continually making enquiries
about the Adventure, after our separation, some of the natives informed us of a ship's having
been in a port on the coast of Teerawitte. But, at this time, we thought we must have misunderstood
them, and took no notice of the intelligence.

The arrival of this unknown ship has been marked by the New Zealanders with more causes of
remembrance than the unhappy one just mentioned. Taweiharooa told us their country was indebted
to her people for the present of an animal, which they left behind them. But as he had not
seen it himself, no sort of judgment could be formed from his description of what kind it was.

We had another piece of intelligence from him, more correctly given, though not confirmed by
our own observations, that there are snakes and lizards there of an enormous size. He described
the latter as being eight feet in length, and as big round as a man's body. He said they sometimes
seize and devour men; that they burrow in the ground; and that they are killed by making fires
at the mouths of the holes. We could not be mistaken as to the animal; for, with his own hand,
he drew a very good representation of a lizard on a piece of paper, as also of a snake, in
order to shew what he meant.[146]

[Footnote 146: There can be little doubt that the animal here called a lizard is an alligator.--E.]

Though much has been said, in the narratives of my two former voyages, about this country and
its inhabitants, Mr Anderson's remarks, as serving either to confirm or to correct our former
accounts, may not be superfluous. He had been three times with me to Queen Charlotte's Sound
during my last voyage; and, after this fourth visit, what he thought proper to record, may
be considered as the result of sufficient observation. The reader will find it in the next
section; and I have nothing farther to add, before I quit New Zealand, but to give some account
of the astronomical and nautical observations made during our stay there.

   The longitude of the observatory in Ship
      Cove, by a mean of 103 sets of observations,
      each set consisting of six or
      more observed distances, was                   174°   25'   15"  E.

   By the time-keeper, at Greenwich rate, it
      was                                            175    26    30

   By ditto, at the Cape rate, it was                174    56    12

   Variation of the compass, being the mean
      of six needles, observed on board the
      ship                                             12    40     0  E.

   By the same needles on shore, it was                13    53     0

   The dip of the south end, observed on
      shore was                                        63    42     0

By a mean of the results of eleven days observations, the time-keeper was too slow for mean
time on February 22, at noon, by 11h 50' 37",396; and she was found to be losing on mean time
at the rate of 2",913 per day. From this rate the longitude will be computed, till some other
opportunity offers to ascertain her rate anew. The astronomical clock, with the same length
of pendulum as at Greenwich, was found to be losing on sidereal time 40",239 per day.

It will not be amiss to mention, that the longitude, by lunar observations, as above, differs
only 6' 45" from what Mr Wales made it during my last voyage; his being so much more to the
W. or 174° 18' 30".

The latitude of Ship Cove is 41° 6' 0", as found by Mr Wales.

The land every where about Queen Charlotte's Sound is uncommonly mountainous, rising immediately
from the sea into large hills, with blunted tops. At considerable distances are valleys, or
rather impressions on the sides of the hills, which are not deep, each terminating toward the
sea in a small cove, with a pebbly or sandy beach; behind which are small flats, where the
natives generally build their huts, at the same time hauling their canoes upon the beaches.
This situation is the more convenient, as in every cove a brook of very fine water (in which
are some small trout) empties itself into the sea.

The bases of these mountains, at least toward the shore, are constituted of a brittle, yellowish
sand-stone, which acquires a bluish cast where the sea washes it. It runs, at some places,
in horizontal, and, at other-places, in oblique strata, being frequently divided, at small
distances, by thin veins of coarse quartz, which commonly follow the direction of the other,
though they sometimes intersect it. The mould, or soil, which covers this, is also of a yellowish
cast, not unlike marl; and is commonly from a foot to two, or more, in thickness.

The quality of this soil is best indicated by the luxuriant growth of its productions. For
the hills (except a few toward the sea, which are covered with smaller bushes) are one continued
forest of lofty trees, flourishing with a vigour almost superior to anything that imagination
can conceive, and affording an august prospect to those who are delighted with the grand and
beautiful works of nature.

The agreeable temperature of the climate, no doubt, contributes much to this uncommon strength
in vegetation. For, at this time, though answering to our month of August, the weather was
never disagreeably warm, nor did it raise the thermometer higher than 60°. The winter, also,
seems equally mild with respect to cold; for in June, 1773, which corresponds to our December,
the mercury never fell lower than 48°; and the trees, at that time, retained their verdure,
as if in the summer season; so that, I believe, their foliage is never shed, till pushed off
by the succeeding leaves in spring.

The weather, in general, is good, but sometimes windy, with heavy rain, which, however, never
lasts above a day; nor does it appear that it is ever excessive. For there are no marks of
torrents rushing down the hills, as in many countries; and the brooks, if we may judge from
their channels, seem never to be greatly increased. I have observed, in the four different
times of my being here, that the winds from the south-eastward are commonly moderate, but attended
with cloudy weather, or rain. The S.W. winds blow very strong, and are also attended with rain,
but they seldom last long. The N.W. winds are the most prevailing; and though often pretty
strong, are almost constantly connected with fine weather. In short, the only obstacle to this
being one of the finest countries upon earth, is its great hillyness; which, allowing the woods
to be cleared away, would leave it less proper for pasturage than flat land, and still more
improper for cultivation, which could never be effected here by the plough.

The large trees which cover the hills are chiefly of two sorts. One of them, of the size of
our largest firs, grows much after their manner, but the leaves, and small berries on their
points, are much liker the yew. It was this which supplied the place of spruce in making beer;
which we did with a strong decoction of its leaves, fermented with treacle or sugar. And this
liquor, when well prepared, was acknowledged to be little inferior to the American spruce beer,
by those who had experience of both. The other sort of tree is not unlike a maple, and grows
often to a great size; but it only served for fuel, as the wood, both of this and of the preceding,
was found to be rather too heavy for masts, yards, and other similar repairs.

There is a greater variety of trees on the small flat spots behind the beaches. Amongst these
are two that bear a kind of plum of the size of prunes, the one yellow, called karraca, and
the other black, called maituo, but neither of them of a very agreeable taste, though the natives
eat both, and our people did the same. Those of the first sort grow on small trees, always
facing the sea; but the others belong to larger trees that stand farther within the wood, and
which we frequently cut down for fuel.

A species of philadelphus grows on the eminences which jut out into the sea; and also a tree
bearing flowers almost like myrtle, with roundish spotted leaves of a disagreeable smell. We
drank the leaves of the philadelphus as tea, and found that they had a pleasant taste and smell,
and might make an excellent substitute for the oriental sort.

Among other plants that were useful to us, may be reckoned wild celery, which grows plentifully
in almost every cove, especially if the natives have ever resided there before; and one that
we used to call scurvy-grass, though entirely different from the plant to which we give that
name. This, however, is far preferable to ours for common use, and may be known by its jagged
leaves, and small clusters of white flowers on the top. Both sorts were boiled every morning,
with wheat ground in a mill, and with portable soup, for the people's breakfast, and also amongst
their pease-soup for dinner. Sometimes they were used as sallad, or dressed as greens. In all
which ways they are good; and, together with the fish, with which we were constantly supplied,
they formed a sort of refreshment, perhaps little inferior to what is to be met with in places
most noted by navigators for plentiful supplies of animal and vegetable food.

Amongst the known kinds of plants met with here, are common and rough bindweed; night-shade
and nettles, both which grow to the size of small trees; a shrubby speedwell, found near all
the beaches, sow-thistles, virgin's bower, vanelloe, French willow, euphorbia, and crane's-bill;
also cudweed, rushes, bull-rushes, flax, all-heal, American nightshade, knot-grass, brambles,
eye-bright, and groundsel; but the species of each are different from any we have in Europe.
There is also polypody, spleenwort, and about twenty other different sort of ferns, entirely
peculiar to the place, with several sorts of mosses, either rare, or produced only here; besides
a great number of other plants, whose uses are not yet known, and subjects fit only for botanical
books.

Of these, however, there is one which deserves particular notice here, as the natives make
their garments of it, and it produces a fine silky flax, superior in appearance to any thing
we have, and probably, at least, as strong. It grows every where near the sea, and in some
places a considerable way up the hills, in bunches or tufts, with sedge-like leaves, bearing,
on a long stalk, yellowish flowers, which are succeeded by a long roundish pod, filled with
very thin shining black seeds. A species of long pepper is found in great plenty, but it has
little of the aromatic flavour that makes spices valuable; and a tree, much like a palm at
a distance, is pretty frequent in the woods, though the deceit appears as you come near it.
It is remarkable, that as the greatest part of the trees and plants had at this time lost their
flowers, we perceived they were generally of the berry-bearing kind; of which, and other seeds,
I brought away about thirty different sorts. Of these, one in particular, which bears a red
berry, is much like the supple-jack, and grows about the trees, stretching from one to another,
in such a manner as to render the woods almost wholly impassable.

The birds, of which there is a tolerable stock, as well as the vegetable productions, are almost
entirely peculiar to the place. And though it be difficult to follow them, on account of the
quantity of underwood, and the climbing plants, that render travelling, for pleasure alone,
uncommonly fatiguing, yet a person, by remaining in one place, may shoot as many in a day as
would serve six or eight others. The principal sorts are large brown parrots, with white or
greyish heads; green parroquets, with red foreheads; large wood pigeons, brown above, with
white bellies, the rest green, and the bill and feet red; two sorts of cuckoos, one as large
as our common sort, of a brown colour, variegated with black, the other not larger than a sparrow,
of a splendid green cast above, and elegantly varied with waves of golden, green, brown, and
white colours below. Both these are scarce, but several others are in greater plenty; one of
which, of a black colour, with a greenish cast, is remarkable for having a tuft of white curled
feathers hanging under the throat, and was called the poy bird[147] by our people. Another
sort, rather smaller, is black, with a brown back and wings, and two small gills under the
root of the bill. This we called the small wattle bird, to distinguish it from another, which
we called the large one, of the size of a common pigeon, with two large yellow and purple membranes
also at the root of the bill. It is black, or rather blue, and has no resemblance of the other
but in name, for the bill is thick, short, and crooked, and has all together an uncommon appearance.
A gross-beak, about the size of a thrush, of a brown colour, with a reddish tail, is frequent;
as is also a small greenish bird, which is almost the only musical one here, but is sufficient
by itself to fill the woods with a melody that is not only sweet, but so varied, that one would
imagine he was surrounded by a hundred different sorts of birds when the little warbler is
near. From these circumstances we named it the mocking bird. There are likewise three or four
sorts of smaller birds; one of which, in figure and lameness, exactly resembles our robin,
but is black where that is brown, and white where that is red. Another differs but little from
this, except in being smaller; and a third sort has a long tail, which it expands as a fan
on coming near, and makes a chirping noise when it perches. King-fishers are seen, though rare,
and are about the size of our English ones, but with an inferior plumage.

[Footnote 147: It had this name from its tuft of feathers, resembling the white flowers used
as ornaments in the ears at Otaheite, and called there Poowa.--D.]

About the rocks are seen black sea-pies with red bills; and crested shags of a leaden colour,
with small black spots on the wings and shoulders, and the rest of the upper part of a velvet
black tinged with green. We frequently shot both these, and also a more common sort of shags,
black above and white underneath, that build their nests upon trees, on which sometimes a dozen
or more sit at once. There are also, about the shore, a few sea-gulls, some blue herons, and
sometimes, though very rarely, wild-ducks, a small sandy-coloured plover, and some sand-larks.
And small penguins, black above, with a white belly, as well as numbers of little black divers,
swim often about the sound. We likewise killed two or three rails, of a brown or yellowish
colour, variegated with black, which feed about the small brooks, and are nearly as large as
a common fowl. No other sort of game was seen, except a single snipe, which was shot, and differs
but little from that of Europe.

The principal fish we caught by the seine were mullets and elephant fish, with a few soles
and flounders; but those that the natives mostly supplied us with were a sort of sea-bream,
of a silver colour, with a black spot on the neck, large conger eels, and a fish in shape much
like the bream, but so large as to weigh five, six, or seven pounds. It is blackish with thick
lips, and called Mogge by the natives. With hook and line we caught chiefly a blackish fish
of the size of a haddock, called cole-fish by the seamen, but differing much from that known
by the same name in Europe; and another of the same size, of a reddish colour, with a little
beard, which we called night-walkers, from the greatest number being caught in the night. Sometimes
we got a sort of small salmon, gurnards, skate, and nurses; and the natives now and then brought
hake, paracutas, a small sort of mackerel, parrot-fish, and leather-jackets; besides another
fish, which is very rare, shaped almost like a dolphin, of a black colour, with strong bony
jaws, and the back fin, as well as those opposite to it, much lengthened at the end. All these
sorts, except the last, which we did not try, are excellent to eat; but the Mogge, small salmon,
and cole-fish, are superior to the rest.

The rocks are abundantly furnished with great quantities of excellent muscles; one sort of
which, that is not very common, measures above a foot in length. There are also cockles buried
in the sand of the small beaches; and in some places oysters, which, though very small, are
well tasted. Of other shell-fish there are ten or twelve sorts, such as periwinkles, wilks,
limpets, and some very beautiful sea-ears, also another sort which stick to the weeds; with
some other things, as sea-eggs, star-fish, &c. several of which are peculiar to the place.
The natives likewise sometimes brought us very fine cray-fish, equal to our largest lobsters,
and cuttle-fish, which they eat themselves.

Insects are very rare. Of these we only saw two sorts of dragon-flies, some butterflies, small
grasshoppers, several sorts of spiders, some small black ants, and vast numbers of scorpion-flies,
with whose chirping the woods resound. The only noxious one is the sand-fly, very numerous
here, and almost as troublesome as the musquitoe; for we found no reptile here, except two
or three sorts of small harmless lizards.[148]

[Footnote 148: In a separate memorandum-book, Mr Anderson mentions the monstrous animal of
the lizard kind, described by the two boys after they left the island.--D.]

It is remarkable, that, in this extensive land, there should not even be the traces of any
quadruped, only excepting a few rats, and a sort of fox-dog, which is a domestic animal with
the natives.

Neither is there any mineral worth notice, but a green, jasper or serpent-stone, of which the
New Zealanders make their tools and ornaments. This is esteemed a precious article by them;
and they have some superstitious notions about the method of its generation, which we could
not perfectly understand. It is plain, however, that wherever it may be found, (which, they
say, is in the channel of a large river far to the southward,) it is disposed in the earth,
in thin layers, or perhaps in detached pieces, like our flints; for the edges of those pieces,
which have not been cut, are covered with a whitish crust like these. A piece of this sort
was purchased, about eighteen inches long, a foot broad, and near two inches thick, which yet
seemed to be only the fragment of a larger piece.

The natives do not exceed the common stature of Europeans; and, in general, are not so well
made, especially about the limbs. This is, perhaps, the effect of sitting, for the most part,
on their hams, and of being confined, by the hilly disposition of the country, from using that
sort of exercise which contributes to render the body straight and well-proportioned. There
are, however, several exceptions to this; and some are remarkable for their large bones and
muscles, but few that I have seen are corpulent.

Their colour is of different casts, from a pretty deep black to a yellowish or olive tinge,
and their features also are various, some resembling Europeans. But, in general, their faces
are round, with their lips full, and also their noses toward the point; though the first are
not uncommonly thick, nor the last flat. I do not, however, recollect to have seen an instance
of the true aquiline nose amongst them. Their teeth are commonly broad, white, and well set;
and their eyes large, with a very free motion, which seems the effect of habit. Their hair
is black, straight, and strong, commonly cut short on the hind part, with the rest tied on
the crown of the head: but some have it of a curling disposition, or of a brown colour. In
the young, the countenance is generally free or open; but in many of the men it has a serious
cast, and sometimes a sullenness or reserve, especially if they are strangers. The women are,
in general, smaller than the men; but have few peculiar graces, either in form or features,
to distinguish them.

The dress of both sexes is alike; and consists of an oblong garment about five feet long, and
four broad, made from the silky flax already mentioned. This seems to be their most material
and complex manufacture, which is executed by knotting; and their work is often ornamented
with pieces of dog-skin, or chequered at the corners. They bring two corners of this garment
over the shoulders, and fasten it on the breast with the other part, which covers the body;
and about the belly, it is again tied with a girdle made of mat. Sometimes they cover it with
large feathers of birds (which seem to be wrought into the piece of cloth when it is made),
or with dog-skin; and that alone we have seen worn as a covering. Over this garment many of
them wear mats, which reach from the shoulders to near the heels. But the most common outer-covering
is a quantity of the above sedgy plant, badly dressed, which they fasten on a string to a considerable
length, and, throwing it about the shoulders, let it fall down on all sides, as far as the
middle of the thighs. When they sit down with this upon them, either in their boats, or upon
the shore, it would be difficult to distinguish them from large grey stones, if their black
heads, projecting beyond their coverings, did not engage one to a stricter examination.

By way of ornament, they fix in their heads feathers, or combs of bone, or wood, adorned with
pearl shell, or the thin inner skin of some leaf. And in the ears, both of men and women, which
are pierced, or rather slit, are hung small pieces of jasper, bits of cloth, or beads when
they can get them. A few also have the septum of the nose bored in its lower part; but no ornament
was worn there that we saw; though one man passed a twig through it, to shew us that it was
sometimes used for that purpose. They wear long beards, but are fond of having them shaved.

Some are punctured or stained in the face with curious spiral and other figures, of a black
or deep blue colour; but it is doubtful whether this be ornamental, or intended as a mark of
particular distinction; and the women, who are marked so, have the puncture only on their lips,
or a small spot on their chins. Both sexes often besmear their faces and heads with a red paint,
which seems to be a martial ochre mixed with grease; and the women sometimes wear necklaces
of shark's teeth, or bunches of long beads, which seem to be made of the leg-bones of small
birds, or a particular shell. A few also have small triangular aprons adorned with the feathers
of parrots, or bits of pearl shells, furnished with a double or treble set of cords to fasten
them, about the waist. I have sometimes seen caps or bonnets made of the feathers of birds,
which may be reckoned as ornaments; for it is not their custom to wear any covering on their heads.

They live in the small coves formerly described, in companies of forty or fifty, or more; and
sometimes in single families, building their huts contiguous to each other; which, in general,
are miserable lodging-places. The best I ever saw was about thirty feet long, fifteen broad,
and six high, built exactly in the manner of one of our country barns. The inside was both
strong and regularly made of supporters at the sides, alternately large and small, well fastened
by means of withes, and painted red and black. The ridge pole was strong; and the large bull-rushes,
which composed the inner part of the thatching, were laid with great exactness parallel to
each other. At one end was a small square hole, which served as a door to creep in at; and
near, another much smaller, seemingly for letting out the smoke, as no other vent for it could
be seen. This, however, ought to be considered as one of the best, and the residence of some
principal person; for the greatest part of them are not half the above size, and seldom exceed
four feet in height; being, besides, indifferently built, though proof against wind and rain.

No other furniture is to be seen in them, than a few small baskets or bags, in which they put
their fishing-hooks, and other trifles; and they sit down in the middle round a small fire,
where they also probably sleep, without any other covering than what they wear in the day,
or perhaps without that; as such confined places must be very warm, though inhabited but by
a few persons.

They live chiefly by fishing, making use either of nets of different kinds, or of wooden fish-hooks
pointed with bone; but so oddly made, that a stranger is at a loss to know how they can answer
such a purpose. It also appears, that they remove their habitations from one place to another
when the fish grow scarce, or for some other reason; for we found houses now built in several
parts, where there had been none when we were here during our last voyage, and even these have
been already deserted.

Their boats are well built, of planks raised upon each other, and fastened with strong withes,
which also bind a long narrow piece on the outside of the seams to prevent their leaking. Some
are fifty feet long, and so broad as to be able to sail without an outrigger; but the smaller
sort commonly have one; and they often fasten two together by rafters, which we then call a
double canoe. They carry from five to thirty men or more; and have often a large head ingeniously
carved, and painted with a figure at the point, which seems intended to represent a man, with
his features distorted by rage. Their paddles are about four or five feet long, narrow, and
pointed; with which, when they keep time, the boat is pushed along pretty swiftly. Their sail,
which is seldom used, is made of a mat of a triangular shape, having the broadest part above.

The only method of dressing their fish, is by roasting, or rather baking; for they are entirely
ignorant of the art of boiling. In the same manner they dress the root, and part of the stalk,
of the large fern-tree, in a great hole dug for that purpose, which serves as an oven. After
which they split it, and find, within, a fine gelatinous substance, like boiled sago powder,
but firmer. They also use another smaller fern root, which seems to be their substitute for
bread, as it is dried and carried about with them, together with dried fish in great quantities,
when they remove their families, or go far from home. This they beat with a stick till it becomes
pretty soft, when they chew it sufficiently, and spit out the hard fibrous part, the other
having a sweetish mealy taste, not at all disagreeable.

When they dare not venture to sea, or perhaps from choice, they supply the place of other fish
with muscles and sea-ears; great quantities of the shells of which lie in heaps near their
houses. And they sometimes, though rarely, find means to kill rails, penguins, and shags, which
help to vary their diet They also breed considerable numbers of the dogs, mentioned before,
for food; but these cannot be considered as a principal article of diet. From whence we we
may conclude, that, as there is not the least sign of cultivation of land, they depend principally
for their subsistence on the sea, which, indeed, is very bountiful in its supply.

Their method of feeding corresponds with the nastiness of their persons, which often smell
disagreeably from the quantity of grease about them, and their clothes never being washed.
We have seen them eat the vermin, with which their heads are sufficiently stocked.

They also used to devour, with the greatest eagerness, large quantities of stinking train oil,
and blubber of seals, which we were melting at the tent, and had kept near two months; and,
on board the ships, they were not satisfied with emptying the lamps, but actually swallowed
the cotton, and fragrant wick, with equal voracity. It is worthy of notice, that though the
inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land appear to have but a scanty subsistence, they would not even
taste our bread, though they saw us eat it; whereas these people devoured it greedily, when
both mouldy and rotten. But this must not be imputed to any defect in their sensations; for
I have observed them throw away things which we eat, with evident disgust, after only smelling
to them.

They shew as much ingenuity, both in invention and execution, as any uncivilized nations under
similar circumstances. For, without the use of any metal tools, they make every thing by which
they procure their subsistence, clothing, and warlike weapons, with a degree of neatness, strength,
and convenience for accomplishing their several purposes. Their chief mechanical tool is formed
exactly after the manner of our adzes; and is made, as are also the chisel and goudge, of the
green serpent-stone or jasper, already mentioned; though sometimes they are composed of a black,
smooth, and very solid stone. But their masterpiece seems to be carving, which is found upon
the most trifling things; and, in particular, the heads of their canoes are sometimes ornamented
with it in such a manner, as not only shews much design, but is also an example of their great
labour and patience in execution. Their cordage for fishing-lines is equal, in strength and
evenness, to that made by us; and their nets not at all inferior. But what must cost them more
labour than any other article, is the making the tools we have mentioned; for the stone is
exceedingly hard, and the only method of fashioning it, we can guess at, is by rubbing one
stone upon another, which can have but a slow effect. Their substitute for a knife is a shell,
a bit of flint, or jasper. And, as an auger to bore holes, they fix a shark's tooth in the
end of a small piece of wood. It is true, they have a small saw made of some jagged fishes
teeth, fixed on the convex edge of a piece of wood nicely carved. But this, they say, is only
used to cut up the bodies of their enemies whom they kill in battle.

No people can have a quicker sense of an injury done to them, and none are more ready to resent
it. But, at the same time, they will take an opportunity of being insolent when they think
there is no danger of punishment; which is so contrary to the spirit of genuine bravery, that,
perhaps, their eagerness to resent injuries is to be looked upon rather as an effect of a furious
disposition than of great courage. They also appear to be of a suspicious or mistrustful temper
(which, however, may rather be acquired than natural), for strangers never came to our ships
immediately, but lay in their boats at a small distance, either to observe our motions, or
consult whether or no they should risk their safety with us. To this they join a great degree
of dishonesty; for they steal every thing they can lay their hands on, if there be the least
hope of not being detected; and, in trading, I have little doubt but they would take advantages,
if they thought it could be done with safety; as they not only refuse to trust a thing in one's
hand for examination, but exult if they think they have tricked you in the bargain.

Such conduct, however, is, in some measure, to be expected where there appears to be but little
subordination, and consequently few, if any, laws, to punish transgressions. For no man's authority
seems to extend farther than his own family; and when, at any time, they join for mutual defence,
or any other purpose, those amongst them who are eminent for courage or prudence, are directors.
How their private quarrels are terminated is uncertain; but, in the few we saw, which were
of little consequence, the parties concerned were clamorous and disorderly.

Their public contentions are frequent, or rather perpetual; for it appears, from their number
of weapons, and dexterity in using them, that war is their principal profession. These weapons
are spears, patoos and halberts, or sometimes stones. The first are made of hard wood pointed,
of different lengths, from five, to twenty, or even thirty feet long. The short ones are used
for throwing as darts. The patoo or emeete is of an elliptical shape, about eighteen inches
long, with a handle made of wood, stone, the bone of some sea animal, or green jasper, and
seems to be their principal dependence in battle. The halbert, or long club, is about five
or six feet long, tapering at one end with a carved head, and at the other, broad or flat,
with sharp edges.

Before they begin the onset, they join in a war-song, to which they all keep the exactest time,
and soon raise their passion to a degree of frantic fury, attended with the most horrid distortion
of their eyes, mouths, and tongues, to strike terror into their enemies; which, to those who
have not been accustomed to such a practice, makes them appear more like demons than men, and
would almost chill the boldest with fear. To this succeeds a circumstance, almost foretold
in their fierce demeanour, horrid, cruel, and disgraceful to human nature; which is, cutting
in pieces, even before being perfectly dead, the bodies of their enemies, and, after dressing
them on a fire, devouring the flesh, not only without reluctance, but with peculiar satisfaction.

One might be apt to suppose, that people, capable of such excess of cruelty, must be destitute
of every human feeling, even amongst their own party; and yet we find them lamenting the loss
of their friends, with a violence of expression which argues the most tender remembrance of
them. For both men and women, upon the death of those connected with them, whether in battle
or otherwise, bewail them with the most doleful cries; at the same time cutting their foreheads
and cheeks, with shells or pieces of flint, in large gashes, until the blood flows plentifully
and mixes with their tears. They also carve pieces of their green stone, rudely shaped, as
human figures, which they ornament with bright eyes of pearl-shell, and hang them about their
necks, as memorials of those whom they held most dear; and their affections of this kind are
so strong, that they even perform the ceremony of cutting, and lamenting for joy, at the return
of any of their friends, who have been absent but for a short time.

The children are initiated, at a very early age, into all the practices, good or bad, of their
fathers; so that you find a boy or girl, nine or ten years old, able to perform all the motions,
and to imitate the frightful gestures, by which the more aged use to inspire their enemies
with terror, keeping the strictest time in their song. They likewise sing, with some degree
of melody, the traditions of their forefathers, their actions in war, and other indifferent
subjects; of all which they are immoderately fond, and spend much of their time, in these amusements,
and in playing on a sort of flute.

Their language is far from being harsh or disagreeable, though the pronunciation is frequently
guttural; and whatever qualities are requisite in any other language to make it musical, certainly
obtain to a considerable degree here, if we may judge from the melody of some sorts of their
songs. It is also sufficiently comprehensive, though, in many respects, deficient, if compared
with our European languages, which owe their perfection to long improvement. But a small specimen
is here subjoined, from which some judgment may be formed. I collected a great many of their
words, both now and in the course of our former voyage; and being equally attentive, in my
enquiries, about the languages of the other islands throughout the South Sea, I have the amplest
proof of their wonderful agreement, or rather identity. This general observation has, indeed,
been already made in the accounts of the former voyages. I shall be enabled, however, to confirm
and strengthen it, by a fresh list of words, selected from a large vocabulary in my possession;
and by placing, in the opposite column, the corresponding words as used at Otaheite, the curious
reader will, at one view, be furnished with sufficient materials for judging by what subordinate
changes the difference of dialect has been effected.

   English                   New Zealand.          Otahaita.
   Water,                  Ewy,                   Evy.
   A tail of a dog,        Wyeroo,                Ero.
   Death, dead,            Kaoo, matte,           matte, roa.
   To fly,                 Ererre,                Eraire.
   A house,                Ewharre,               Ewharre.
   To sleep,               Moea,                  Moe.
   A fish-hook,            Makoee,                Matou.
   Shut,                   Opanee,                Opanee.
   A bed,                     Moenga                 Moera.
   A butterfly,            Epaipe,                Pepe.
   To chew, or eat,      Hekaee,                Ey.
   Cold,                   Makkareede,             Mareede.
   To-day,                 Agooanai,              Aooanai.
   The hand,               Reenga,                Ereema.
   Large,                  Keeerahoi,             Erahoi.
   Red,                    Whairo,                Oora, oora.
   We,                     Taooa,                 Taooa.
   Where is it?            Kahaia,                Tehaia.
   A stone,                Powhy,                 Owhy.
   A man,                  Tangata,               Taata.
   Black,                  Purra, purra,          Ere, ere.
   White,                  Ema,                   Ooama.
   To reside, or dwell,  Nohoanna,              Nohonoa,
   Out, not within,        Woho,                  Woho.
   Male kind (of any animal), Toa,                Etoa.
   Female,                 Eoowha,                Eooha.
   A shark,                Mango,                 Mao.
   To understand,          Geetaia,               Eetea.
   Forgot,                 Warre,                 Ooaro.
   Yesterday,              Taeninnahoi,           Ninnahoi.
   One,                    Tahaee,                Atahay.
   Two,                    Rooa,                  Erooa.
   Three,                  Toroo,                 Toroo.
   Four,                   Faa,                   Ahaa.
   Five,                   Reema,                 Ereema.
   Six,                    Ono,                   Aono.
   Seven,                  Heetoo,                Aheitoo.
   Eight,                  Waroo,                 Awaroo.
   Nine,                   Eeva,                  Aeeva.
   Ten,                    Angahoora,             Ahooroo.

The New Zealanders to these numerals prefix Ma; as,

   English.                                New Zealand.
   Eleven,                                  Matahee.
   Twelve, &c &c.                           Marooa, &c. &c.
   Twenty,                                  Maogahoora.

CHAPTER II.

FROM LEAVING NEW ZEALAND TO OUR ARRIVAL AT OTAHEITE, OR THE SOCIETY ISLANDS.

On the 25th of February, at ten o'clock in the morning, a light breeze springing up at N.W.
by W., we weighed, stood out of the Sound, and made sail through the strait, with the Discovery
in company. We had hardly got the length of Cape Teerawitte, when the wind took us aback at
S.E. It continued in this quarter till two o'clock the next morning, when we had a few hours
calm. After which we had a breeze at north; but here it fixed not long, before it veered to
the east, and after that to the south. At length on the 27th, at eight o'clock in the morning,
we took our departure from Cape Palliser, which, at this time, bore W., seven or eight leagues
distant. We had a fine gale, and I steered E. by N.

We had no sooner lost sight of the land, than our two New Zealand adventurers, the sea sickness
they now experienced giving a turn to their reflections, repented heartily of the step they
had taken. All the soothing encouragement we could think of availed but little. They wept,
both in public and in private, and made their lamentations in a kind of song, which, as far
as we could comprehend the meaning of the words, was expressive of their praises of their country
and people, from which they were to be separated for ever. Thus they continued for many days,
till their sea sickness wore off, and the tumult of their minds began to subside. Then these
fits of lamentation became less and less frequent, and at length entirely ceased. Their native
country and their friends were, by degrees, forgot, and they appeared to be as firmly attached
to us, as if they had been born amongst us.

The wind had not remained many hours at S., before it veered to S.E. and E.; and, with this,
we stood to the N., till the 28th at noon. Being then in the latitude of 41° 17', and in the
longitude of 177° 17' E., we tacked and stood to the S.E., with a gentle breeze at E.N.E. It
afterward freshened, and came about to N.E.; in which quarter it continued two days, and sometimes
blew a fresh gale with squalls, accompanied with showers of rain.

On the 2d of March at noon, being in the latitude of 42° 35' 30", longitude 180° 8' E., the
wind shifted to N.W.; afterward to S.W.; and between this point and north it continued to blow,
sometimes a strong gale with hard squalls, and at other times very moderate. With this wind
we steered N.E. by E. and E., under all the sail we could carry, till the 11th at noon, at
which time we were in the latitude of 39° 29', longitude 196° 4' E.

The wind now veered to N.E. and S.E., and I stood to the N., and to the N.E., as the wind would
admit, till one o'clock in the morning on the 16th, when having a more favourable gale from
the north, I tacked and stood to the east; the latitude being 33° 40', and the longitude 198°
50' E. We had light airs and calms by turns, till noon the next day, when the wind began to
freshen at E.S.E., and I again stood to the N.E. But as the wind often veered to E. and E.N.E.,
we frequently made no better than a northerly course; nay sometimes to the westward of north.
But the hopes of the wind coming more southerly, or of meeting with it from the westward, a
little without the Tropic, as I had experienced in my former visits to this ocean, encouraged
me to continue this course. Indeed it was necessary that I should run all risks, as my proceeding
to the north this year, in prosecution of the principal object of the voyage, depended entirely
on my making a quick passage to Otaheite, or the Society Islands.

The wind continued invariably fixed at E.S.E., or seldom shifting above two points on either
side. It also blew very faint, so that it was the 27th before we crossed the Tropic, and then
we were only in the longitude of 201° 25' E., which was nine degrees to the westward of our
intended port. In all this run we saw nothing, except now and then a Tropic bird, that could
induce us to think that we had sailed near any land. In the latitude of 34° 20', longitude
199° we passed the trunk of a large tree, which was covered with barnacles; a sign that it
had been long at sea.

On the 29th, at ten in the morning, as we were standing to the N.E., the Discovery made the
signal of seeing land. We saw it from the mast-head almost the same moment, bearing N.E. by
E. by compass. We soon discovered it to be an island of no great extent, and stood for it till
sunset, when it bore N.N.E., distant about two or three leagues.

The night was spent in standing off and on, and at daybreak the next morning, I bore up for
the lee or west side of the island, as neither anchorage nor landing appeared to be practicable
on the south side, on account of a great surf,[149] which broke every where with violence against
the shore, or against the reef that surrounded it.

[Footnote 149: A very ingenious and satisfactory account of the cause of the surf, is to be
met with in Marsden'a History of Sumatra, p. 29-32.--D.]

We presently found that the island was inhabited, and saw several people, on a point of the
land we had passed, wading to the reef, where, as they found the ship leaving them quickly,
they remained. But others, who soon appeared in different parts, followed her course; and sometimes
several of them collected into small bodies, who made a shouting noise all together, nearly
after the manner of the inhabitants of New Zealand.

Between seven and eight o'clock, we were at the W.N.W. part of the island, and, being near
the shore, we could perceive with our glasses, that several of the natives, who appeared upon
a sandy beach, were all armed with long spears and clubs, which they brandished in the air
with signs of threatening, or, as some on board interpreted their attitudes, with invitations
to land. Most of them appeared naked, except having a sort of girdle, which, being brought
up between the thighs, covered that part of the body. But some of them had pieces of cloth
of different colours, white, striped, or chequered, which they wore as a garment, thrown about
their shoulders. And almost all of them had a white wrapper about their heads, not much unlike
a turban; or, in some instances, like a high conical cap. We could also perceive that they
were of a tawny colour, and, in general, of a middling stature, but robust, and inclining to
corpulence.

At this time, a small canoe was launched in a great hurry from the further end of the beach,
and a man getting into it, put off, as with a view to reach the ship. On perceiving this, I
brought-to, that we might receive the visit; but the man's resolution failing, he soon returned
toward the beach, where, after some time, another man joined him in the canoe; and then they
both paddled toward us. They stopt short, however, as if afraid to approach, until Omai, who
addressed them in the Otaheite language, in some measure quieted their apprehensions. They
then came near enough, to take some beads and nails, which were tied to a piece of wood, and
thrown into the canoe. They seemed afraid to touch these things, and put the piece of wood
aside without untying them. This, however, might arise from superstition; for Omai told us,
that when they saw us offering them presents, they asked something for their Eatooa, or god.
He also, perhaps improperly, put the question to them, Whether, they ever ate human flesh?
which they answered in the negative, with a mixture of indignation and abhorrence. One of them,
whose name was Mourooa, being asked how he came by a scar on his forehead, told us that it
was the consequence of a wound he had got in fighting with the people of an island, which lies
to the north-eastward, who, sometimes came to invade them. They afterward took hold of a rope.
Still, however, they would not venture on board; but told Omai, who understood them pretty
well, that their countrymen on shore had given them, this caution, at the same time directing
them to enquire, from whence our ship came, and to learn the name of the captain. On our part,
we enquired the name of the island, which they called Mangya or Mangeea; and sometimes added
to it Nooe, nai, naiwa. The name of their chief, they said, was Orooaeeka.

Mourooa was lusty and well-made, but not very tall. His features were agreeable, and his disposition
seemingly no less so; for he made several droll gesticulations, which indicated both good-nature
and a share of humour. He also made others which seemed of a serious kind, and repeated some
words with a devout air, before he ventured to lay hold of the rope at the ship's stern; which
was probably to recommend himself to the protection of some Divinity. His colour was nearly
of the same cast with that common to the most southern Europeans. The other man was not so
handsome. Both of them had strong, straight hair, of a jet colour, tied together on the crown
of the head with a bit of cloth. They wore such girdles as we had perceived about those on
shore, and we found they were a substance made from the Morus papyrifera, in the same manner
as at the other islands of this ocean. It was glazed like the sort used by the natives of the
Friendly Islands; but the cloth, on their heads was white, like that which is found at Otaheite.
They had on a kind of sandals, made of a grassy substance interwoven, which we also observed
were worn by those who stood upon the beach; and, as we supposed, intended to defend their
feet against the rough coral rock. Their beards were long; and the inside of their arms, from
the shoulder to the elbow, and some other parts, were punctured or tatooed, after the manner
of the inhabitants of almost all the other islands in the South Sea. The lobe of their ears
was pierced, or rather slit, and to such a length, that one of them stuck there a knife and
some beads, which he had received from us; and the same person had two polished pearl-shells,
and a bunch of human hair, loosely twisted, hanging about his neck, which was the only ornament
we observed. The canoe they came in (which was the only one we saw), was not above ten feet
long, and very narrow; but both strong and neatly made. The fore part had a flat board fastened
over it, and projecting out, to prevent the sea getting in on plunging, like the small Evaas
at Otaheite; but it had an upright stern, about five feet high, like some in New Zealand; and
the upper end of this stern-post was forked. The lower part of the canoe was of white wood,
but the upper was black, and their paddles, made of wood of the same colour, not above three
feet long, broad at one end, and blunted. They paddled either end of the canoe forward indifferently;
and only turned about their faces to paddle the contrary way.

We now stood off and on; and as soon as the ships were in a proper station, about ten o'clock
I ordered two boats, one of them from the Discovery, to sound the coast, and to endeavour to
find a landing-place. With this view, I went in one of them myself, taking with me such articles
to give the natives, as I thought might serve to gain their good-will. I had no sooner put
off from the ship, than the canoe, with the two men, which had left us not long before, paddled
toward my boat; and, having come along-side, Mourooa stept into her, without being asked, and
without a moment's hesitation.

Omai, who was with me, was ordered to enquire of him where we could land; and he directed us
to two different places. But I saw, with regret, that the attempt could not be made at either
place, unless at the risk of having our boats filled with water, or even staved to pieces.
Nor were we more fortunate in our search for anchorage; for we could find no bottom, till within
a cable's length of the breakers. There we met with from forty to twenty fathoms depth, over
sharp coral rocks; so that anchoring would have been attended with much more danger than landing.

While we were thus employed in reconnoitring the shore, great numbers of the natives thronged
down upon the reef, all armed as above mentioned. Mourooa, who was now in my boat, probably
thinking that this warlike appearance hindered us from landing, ordered them to retire back.
As many of them complied, I judged he must be a person of some consequence among them. Indeed,
if we understood him right, he was the king's brother. So great was the curiosity of several
of them, that they took to the water, and, swimming off to the boats, came on board them without
reserve. Nay, we found it difficult to keep them out; and still more difficult to prevent their
carrying off every thing they could lay their hands upon. At length, when they perceived that
we were returning to the ships, they all left us, except our original visitor Mourooa. He,
though not without evident signs of fear, kept his place in my boat, and accompanied me on
board the ship.

The cattle, and other new objects, that presented themselves to him there, did not strike him
with so much surprise as one might have expected. Perhaps his mind was too much taken up about
his own safety, to allow him to attend to other things. It is certain, that he seemed very
uneasy; and the ship, on our getting on board, happening to be standing off shore, this circumstance
made him the more so. I could get but little new information from him; and therefore, after
he had made a short stay, I ordered a boat to carry him in toward the land. As soon as he got
out of the cabin, he happened to stumble over one of the goats. His curiosity now overcoming
his fear, he stopped, looked at it, and asked Omai, what bird this was? and not receiving an
immediate answer from him, he repeated the question to some of the people upon deck. The boat
having conveyed him pretty near to the surf, he leaped into the sea, and swam ashore. He had
no sooner landed, than the multitude of his countrymen gathered round him, as if with an eager
curiosity to learn from him what he had seen; and in this situation they remained, when we
lost sight of them. As soon as the boat returned, we hoisted her in, and made sail from the
land to the northward.

Thus were we obliged to leave, unvisited, this fine island, which seemed capable of supplying
all our wants. It lies in the latitude of 21° 57' S., and in the longitude of 201° 53' E. Such
parts of the coast as fell under our observation, are guarded by a reef of coral rock, on the
outside of which the sea is of an unfathomable depth. It is full five leagues in circuit, and
of a moderate and pretty equal height; though, in clear weather, it may be certainly seen at
the distance of ten leagues; for we had not lost sight of it at night, when we had run above
seven leagues, and the weather was cloudy. In the middle, it rises into little hills, from
whence there is a gentle descent to the shore, which, at the S.W. part, is steep, though not
above ten or twelve feet high; and has several excavations made by the beating of the waves
against a brownish sand-stone of which it is composed. The descent here is covered with trees
of a deep green colour, very thick, but not high, which seem all of one sort, unless nearest
the shore, where there are great numbers of that species of dracaena found in the woods of
New Zealand, which are also scattered in some other places. On the N.W. part, the shore, as
we mentioned above, ends in a sandy beach; beyond which the land is broken down into small
chasms or gullies, and has a broad border of trees resembling tall willows; which, from its
regularity, might be supposed a work of art, did not its extent forbid us to think so. Farther
up on the ascent, the trees were of the deep green mentioned before. Some of us supposed these
to be the rima, intermixed with low cocoa palms; and a few of some other sorts. They seemed
not so thick as on the S.W. part, and higher; which appearance might be owing to our nearer
approach to the shore. On the little hills were some trees of a taller sort, thinly scattered;
but the other parts of them were either bare, and of a reddish colour, or covered with something
like fern. Upon the whole, the island has a pretty aspect, and might be made a beautiful spot
by cultivation.

As the inhabitants seemed to be both numerous and well fed, such articles of provision as the
island produces must be in great plenty. It might, however, be a matter of curiosity to know,
particularly, their method of subsistence; for our friend Mourooa told us, that they had no
animals, as hogs and dogs, both which, however, they had heard of; but acknowledged they had
plantains, bread-fruit, and taro. The only birds we saw, were some white egg-birds, terns,
and noddies; and one white heron, on the shore.

The language of the inhabitants of Mangeea is a dialect of that spoken at Otaheite; though
their pronunciation, as that of the New Zealanders, be more guttural. Some of their words,
of which two or three are perhaps peculiar to this island, are here subjoined, as taken, by
Mr Anderson, from Omai, who had learnt them in his conversations with Mourooa. The Otaheite
words, where there is any resemblance, are placed opposite.

   English.                      Mangeea.         Otaheite.
   A cocoa nut,                Eakkaree,          Aree.
   Bread-fruit,                Kooroo,            Ooroo.
   A canoe,                    Ewakka,            Evaa.
   Friend,                     Naoo, mou.
   A man,                      Taata, or Tangata, Taata.
   Cloth, or cloth plant,    Taia, taia aoutee, Eoute.
   Good,                       Mata,              Myty.
   A club,                     Pooroohee.
   Yes,                        Aee,               Ai.
   No,                         Aoure,             Aoure.
   A spear,                    Heyhey.
   Afight, or battle,          Etamagee,          Tamaee.
   A woman,                    Waheine,           Waheine.
   A daughter,                 Maheine,           Maheine.
   The sun,                    Heetaia matooa.
   I,                          Ou,                Wou.
   The shore,                  Euta,              Euta.
   What is that?               Ehataieee?         Owytaieeoa?
   There,                      Oo.

   English.                    Mangeea.           Otaheite.
   A chief,                   Ereekee,             Eree.

   Great, or powerful,      Manna (an adjunct to
                               the last.)

   To kiss,                   Ooma.

The natives of Mangeea seem to resemble those of Otaheite and the Marquesas in the beauty of
their persons, more than any other nation I have seen in these seas; having a smooth skin,
and not being muscular. Their general disposition also corresponds, as far as we had opportunities
of judging, with that which distinguishes the first-mentioned people. For they are not only
cheerful, but, as Mourooa shewed us, are acquainted with all the lascivious gesticulations
which the Otaheitans practise in their dances. It may also be supposed, that their method of
living is similar. For, though the nature of the country prevented our seeing many of their
habitations, we observed one house near the beach, which much resembled, in its mode of construction,
those of Otaheite. It was pleasantly situated in a grove of trees, and appeared to be about
thirty feet long, and seven or eight high, with an open end, which represented an ellipse divided
transversely. Before it, was spread something white on a few bushes; which we conjectured to
be a fishing net, and, to appearance, of a very delicate texture.

They salute strangers much after the manner of the New Zealanders, by joining noses; adding,
however, the additional ceremony of taking the hand of the person to whom they are paying civilities,
and rubbing it with a degree of force upon their nose and mouth.[150]

[Footnote 150: The inhabitants of the Palaos, New Philippine, or rather Caroline Islands, at
the distance of almost fifteen hundred leagues from Mangeea, have the same mode of salutation.
"Leur civilitié, et la marque de leur respect, consiste à prendre la main ou la pied de celui
à qui ils veulent faire honneur, et s'en frotter doucement toute le visage."--Lettres Edifiantes
& Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 208. Edit.

After leaving Mangeea, on the afternoon of the 30th of March, we continued our course northward,
all that night, and till noon on the 31st; when we again saw land, in the direction of N.E.
by N., distant eight or ten leagues.

Next morning, at eight o'clock, we had got abreast of its north end, within four leagues of
it, but to leeward; and could now pronounce it to be an island, nearly of the same appearance
and extent with that we had so lately left. At the same time, another island, but much smaller,
was seen right ahead. We could have soon reached this; but the largest one had the preference,
as most likely to furnish a supply of food for the cattle, of which we began to be in great want.

With this view I determined to work up to it; but as there was but little wind, and that little
was unfavourable, we were still two leagues to leeward at eight o'clock the following morning.
Soon after, I sent two armed boats from the Resolution, and one from the Discovery, under the
command of Lieutenant Gore, to look for anchoring-ground, and a landing-place. In the mean
time, we plyed up under the island with the ships.

Just as the boats were putting off, we observed several single canoes coming from the shore.
They went first to the Discovery, she being the nearest ship. It was not long after, when three
of these canoes came along-side of the Resolution, each conducted by one man. They are long
and narrow, and supported by outriggers. The stern is elevated about three or four feet, something
like a ship's stern-post. The head is flat above, but prow-like below, and turns down at the
extremity, like the end of a violin. Some knives, beads, and other trifles were conveyed to
our visitors; and they gave us a few cocoa-nuts, upon our asking for them. But they did not
part with them by way of exchange for what they had received from us. For they seemed to have
no idea of bartering; nor did they appear to estimate any of our presents at a high rate.

With a little persuasion, one of them made his canoe fast to the ship, and came on board; and
the other two, encouraged by his example, soon followed him. Their whole behaviour marked that
they were quite at their ease, and felt no sort of apprehension of our detaining, or using
them ill.

After their departure, another canoe arrived, conducted by a man who brought a bunch of plantains
as a present to me; asking for me by name, having learnt it from Omai, who was sent before
us in the boat with Mr Gore. In return for this civility, I gave him an axe, and a piece of
red cloth; and he paddled back to the shore well satisfied. I afterward understood from Omai,
that this present had been sent from the king, or principal chief of the island.

Not long after, a double canoe, in which were twelve men, came toward us. As they drew near
the ship, they recited some words in concert, by way of chorus,[151] one of their number first
standing up, and giving the word before each repetition. When they had finished their solemn
chant, they came along-side, and asked for the chief. As soon as I shewed myself, a pig and
a few cocoa-nuts were conveyed up into the ship; and the principal person in the canoe made
me an additional present of a piece of matting, as soon as he and his companions got on board.

[Footnote 151: Something like this ceremony was performed by the inhabitants of the Marquesas,
when Captain Cook visited them in 1774. It is curious to observe, at what immense distances
this mode of receiving strangers prevails. Padillo, who sailed from Manilla in 1710, on a voyage
to discover the Palaos Islands, was thus received there. The writer of the relation of his
voyage says, "Aussitot qu'ils approcherent de notre bord, ils se mirent à chanter. Ils regloient
la cadence, en frappant des mains sur leurs cuisses."--Lettres Edifiantes & Curieuses, tom.
xv. p. 323.--D.]

Our visitors were conducted into the cabin, and to other parts of the ship. Some objects seemed
to strike them with a degree of surprise; but nothing fixed their attention for a moment. They
were afraid to come near the cows and horses; nor did they form the least conception of their
nature. But the sheep and goats did not surpass the limits of their ideas; for they gave us
to understand, that they knew them to be birds. It will appear rather incredible, that human
ignorance could ever make so strange a mistake; there not being the most distant similitude
between a sheep or goat, and any winged animal. But these people seemed to know nothing of
the existence of any other land-animals, besides hogs, dogs, and birds. Our sheep and goats,
they could see, were very different creatures from the two first, and therefore they inferred,
that they must belong to the latter class, in which they knew there is a considerable variety
of species.[152] I made a present to my new friend of what I thought might be most acceptable
to him; but, on his going away, he seemed rather disappointed than pleased. I afterward understood
that he was very desirous of obtaining a dog, of which animal this island could not boast,
though its inhabitants knew that the race existed in other islands of their ocean. Captain
Clerke had received the like present, with the same view, from another man, who met with from
him the like disappointment.

[Footnote 152: "I would add," says Mr Stewart, in his Elements of the Phil, of Hum. Mind, p.
154, 2d ed., "I would add to Cook's very judicious remarks, that the mistake of these islanders
probably did not arise from their considering a sheep or a goat as bearing a more striking
resemblance to a bird, than to the two classes of quadrupeds with which they were acquainted;
but to the want of a generic word, such as quadruped, comprehending these two species; which
men in their situation would no more be led to form, than a person, who had only seen one individual
of each species, would think of an appellation to express both, instead of applying a proper
name to each. In consequence of the variety of birds, it appears that they had a generic name
comprehending all of them, to which it was not unnatural for them to refer any new animal they
met with."--This solution is very specious, but when narrowly examined, will be found to rest
on two suppositions not altogether borne out by evidence, and also to be liable to yield a
conclusion not readily reconcileable with all the circumstances of the case. In the first place,
it is not proved that these islanders had no generic word to comprehend the two species of
quadrupeds with which they were acquainted; and the reason given for their want of it, which,
after all, is merely a probable one, cannot be allowed much force. Its weakness will appear
from the consideration, that men in their situation, having certainly an idea of number, must,
according to Mr S.'s own principles stated in the next page, have possessed the power of attending
separately to the things which their senses had presented to them in a state of union, and
have found it necessary to apply to all of them one common name, or, in other words, "to have
reduced them all to the same genus." It is requisite, therefore, for the validity of Mr S.'s
reason, to shew that these islanders either were not able to distinguish betwixt their hogs
and dogs, or had never numbered them together, which it is quite impossible to credit. Even
the case of the person who had seen only one individual of each species, which Mr S. conceives
similar to that we are considering, may be argued against in the same manner, and besides this,
will be found not analogous. The reason is plain. He may or may not have been able, from a
solitary observation, to infer that the distinction he noticed betwixt them was a radical difference,
or, in the language of the schoolmen, was essential: Whereas the islanders, from the constancy
of the differences they observed, must have been necessitated to form a classification of the
objects, the result of which would be, the use of one term for the common properties or the
resemblance, and two words for the comprehended individuals. In the second place, it cannot
otherwise be made appear, that these islanders had a generic name comprehending the variety
of birds with which they were acquainted, than on such principles of reasoning as we have now
been considering, the proper inference from which, as we have seen, is destructive of the foundation
of Mr S.'s solution. Here, it may be remarked, it is somewhat unfortunate that we cannot depend
implicitly on Captain Cook's account as to the words in which the islanders conveyed the notions
we have been commenting on; because, as the reader will find at the end of this section, these
people, who, whatever rank they may be allowed to hold as logicians, were at all events very
dexterous thieves, stole the memorandum book in which Mr Anderson had recorded a specimen of
their language. But admitting Mr S.'s suppositions, it then may be shewn, that not only the
sheep and the goats, but also the horses and cows, considered, in the words of Mr S., as new
animals, would have been referred by these islanders to the same genus, and therefore considered
as birds. The circumstance of their greater size, or, indeed, any other discernible difference,
cannot here be pleaded as exceptive, without in reality abandoning the principles on which
the solution is constructed. On the whole, perhaps, it may seem more correct to imagine, that
these islanders were struck with some fanciful and distant resemblance to certain birds they
were acquainted with, from which they hastily inferred identity of nature, notwithstanding
some very visible discrepancies; whereas the remarkable dissimilarity betwixt the new quadrupeds
and those they were previously acquainted with, impressed their minds with the notion of complete
contrariety. In other words, they concluded, from the unlikeness, that these animals were neither
dogs nor hogs, and, from the resemblance, that they were birds. It is erroneous to say, with
Cook, that there is not the most distant similitude between a sheep or goat, and any winged
animal. For the classifications adopted in every system of natural history, proceed upon the
discovery of still more remote resemblances among the objects of the science, than such as
may be noticed in the present case; and it will almost always be found, that there is greater
difficulty in ascertaining differences amongst those objects which are allied, than similarity
amongst those which are unconnected. The facility with which ideas are associated in the mind,
as Mr S. informs us, p. 295, is very different in different individuals, and "lays the foundation
of remarkable varieties of men both in respect of genius and of character;" and he elsewhere
(p. 291) admits, "that things which have no known relation to each other are often associated,
in consequence of their producing similar effects on the mind." With respect to the former
remark, the facility, it might be practicable to shew, that, in general, it is proportioned
to the ignorance and imperfect education, of the individuals, hence children and the female
sex (as Mr S. himself asserts) exhibit most of it; and, in consistency with the latter observation,
we have but to imagine, that some effect having been produced on the minds of these islanders
by the sight of the animals in question, similar to what they had previously experienced from
some bird or birds which they had occasionally seen, led them to the remarkable association
we have been considering. It would not be very difficult to intimate how this might have happened,
but the length of our note, the reader may think, is much greater than its importance, and
he may prefer to amuse himself at another time, by following out the investigation. Let it
be our apology for entering on it at all, that it is only by diligent reflection on such mysterious
trains of thought, we can hope to acquire any just conceptions of the faculties and operations
of our own minds.--E.]

The people in these canoes were in general of a middling size, and not unlike those of Mangeea;
though several were of a blacker cast than any we saw there. Their hair was tied on the crown
of the head, or flowing loose about the shoulders; and though in some it was of a frizzling
disposition, yet, for the most part, that, as well as the straight sort, was long. Their features
were various, and some of the young men rather handsome. Like those of Mangeea, they had girdles
of glazed cloth, or fine matting, the ends of which, being brought-betwixt their thighs, covered
the adjoining parts. Ornaments, composed of a sort of broad grass, stained with red, and strung
with berries of the nightshade, were worn about their necks. Their ears were bored, but not
slit; and they were punctured upon the legs, from, the knee to the heel, which made them appear
as if they wore a kind of boots. They also resembled the inhabitants of Mangeea in the length
of their beards, and, like them, wore a sort of sandals upon their feet. Their behaviour was
frank and cheerful, with a great deal of good-nature.

At three o'clock in the afternoon, Mr Gore returned with the boat, and informed me, that he
had examined all the west side of the island, without finding a place where a boat could land,
or the ships could anchor, the shore being every where bounded by a steep coral rock, against
which the sea broke in a dreadful surf. But as the natives seemed very friendly, and to express
a degree of disappointment when they saw that our people failed in their attempts to land,
Mr Gore was of opinion, that by means of Omai, who could best explain our request, they might
be prevailed upon to bring off to the boats, beyond the surf, such articles as we most wanted;
in particular, the stems of plantain trees, which make good food for the cattle. Having little
or no wind, the delay of a day or two was not of any moment; and therefore I determined to
try the experiment, and got every thing ready against the next morning.

Soon after day-break, we observed some canoes coming off to the ships, and one of them directed
its course to the Resolution. In it was a hog, with some plantains and cocoa nuts, for which
the people who brought them demanded a dog from us, and refused every other thing that we offered
in exchange. One of our gentlemen on board happened to have a dog and a bitch, which were great
nuisances in the ship, and might have been disposed of on this occasion for a purpose of real
utility, by propagating a race of so useful an animal in this island. But their owner had no
such views, in making them the companions of his voyage. However, to gratify these people,
Omai parted with a favourite dog he had brought from England; and with this acquisition they
departed highly satisfied.

About ten o'clock, I dispatched Mr Gore with three boats, two from the Resolution, and one
from the Discovery, to try the experiment he had proposed. And, as I could confide in his diligence
and ability, I left it entirely to himself, to act as, from circumstances, he should judge
to be most proper. Two of the natives, who had been on board, accompanied him, and Omai went
with him in his boat as an interpreter. The ships being a full league from the island when
the boats put off, and having but little wind, it was noon before we could work up to it. We
then saw our three boats riding at their grapplings, just without the surf, and a prodigious
number of the natives on the shore, abreast of them. By this we concluded, that Mr Gore, and
others of our people, had landed, and our impatience to know the event may be easily conceived.
In order to observe their motions, and to be ready to give them such assistance as they might
want, and our respective situations would admit of, I kept as near the shore as was prudent.
I was sensible, however, that the reef was as effectual a barrier between us and our friends
who had landed, and put them as much beyond the reach of our protection, as if half the circumference
of the globe had intervened. But the islanders, it was probable, did not know this so well
as we did. Some of them, now and then, came off to the ships in their canoes, with a few cocoa
nuts; which they exchanged for whatever was offered to them, without seeming to give the preference
to any particular article.

These occasional visits served to lessen my solicitude about our people who had landed. Though
we could get no information from our visitors, yet their venturing on board seemed to imply,
at least, that their countrymen on shore had not made an improper use of the confidence put
in them. At length, a little before sun-set, we had the satisfaction of seeing the boats put
off. When they got on board, I found that Mr Gore himself, Omai, Mr Anderson, and, Mr Burney,
were the only persons who had landed. The transactions of the day were now fully reported to
me by Mr Gore; but Mr Anderson's account of them being very particular, and including some
remarks on the island and its inhabitants, I shall give it a place here, nearly in his own words.

"We rowed toward a small sandy beach, upon which, and upon the adjacent rocks, a great number
of the natives had assembled; and came to an anchor within a hundred yards of the reef, which
extends about as far, or a little farther, from the shore. Several of the natives swam off,
bringing cocoa-nuts; and Omai, with their countrymen, whom we had with us in the boats, made
them sensible of our wish to land. But their attention was taken up, for a little time, by
the dog, which had been carried from the ship, and was just brought on shore, round whom they
flocked with great eagerness. Soon after, two canoes came off; and, to create a greater confidence
in the islanders, we determined to go unarmed, and run the hazard of being treated well or ill."

"Mr Burney, the first lieutenant of the Discovery, and I went in one canoe, a little time before
the other; and our conductors, watching attentively the motions of the surf, landed us safely
upon the reef. An islander took hold of each of us, obviously with an intention to support
us in walking, over the rugged rocks, to the beach, where several of the others met us, holding
the green boughs of a species of Mimosa in their hands, and saluted us by applying their noses
to ours."

"We were conducted from the beach by our guides, amidst a great crowd of people, who flocked
with very eager curiosity to look at us; and would have prevented our proceeding, had not some
men, who seemed to have authority, dealt blows, with little distinction, amongst them, to keep
them off. We were then led up an avenue of cocoa-palms; and soon came to a number of men, arranged
in two rows, armed with clubs, which they held on their shoulders, much in the manner we rest
a musquet. After walking a little way amongst these, we found a person who seemed a chief,
sitting on the ground cross-legged, cooling himself with a sort of triangular fan, made from
a leaf of the cocoa palm, with a polished handle, of black wood, fixed to one corner. In his
ears were large bunches of beautiful red feathers, which pointed forward. But he had no other
mark, or ornament, to distinguish him from the rest of the people; though they all obeyed him
with the greatest alacrity. He either naturally had, or at this time put on, a serious, but
not severe countenance; and we were desired to salute him as he sat, by some people who seemed
of consequence."

"We proceeded still amongst the men armed with clubs, and came to a second chief, who sat fanning
himself, and ornamented as the first. He was remarkable for his size, and uncommon corpulence,
though, to appearance, not above thirty years of age. In the same manner, we were conducted
to a third chief, who seemed older than the two former, and, though not so fat as the second,
was of a large size. He also was sitting, and adorned with red feathers; and after saluting
him as we had done the others, he desired us both to sit down, which we were very willing to
do, being pretty well fatigued with walking up, and with the excessive heat we felt amongst
the vast crowd that surrounded us."

"In a few minutes, the people were ordered to separate; and we saw, at the distance of thirty
yards, about twenty young women, ornamented as the chiefs, with red feathers, engaged in a
dance, which they performed to a slow and serious air, sung by them all. We got up, and went
forward to see them; and though we must have been strange objects to them, they continued their
dance, without paying the least attention to us. They seemed to be directed by a man who served
as a prompter, and mentioned each motion they were to make. But they never changed the spot,
as we do in dancing, and though their feet were not at rest, this exercise consisted more in
moving the fingers very nimbly, at the same time holding the hands in a prone position near
the face, and now and then also clapping them together.[153] Their motions and songs were performed
in such exact concert, that it should seem they had been taught with great care; and probably
they were selected for this ceremony, as few of those whom we saw in the crowd equalled them
in beauty. In general, they were rather stout than slender, with black hair flowing in ringlets
down the neck, and of an olive complexion. Their features were rather fuller than what we allow
to perfect beauties, and much alike; but their eyes were of a deep black, and each countenance
expressed a degree of complacency and modesty, peculiar to the sex in every part of the world,
but perhaps more conspicuous here, where Nature presented us with her productions in the fullest
perfection, unbiassed in sentiment by custom, or unrestrained in manner by art. Their shape
and limbs were elegantly formed. For, as their dress consisted only of a piece of glazed cloth
fastened about the waist, and scarcely reaching so low as the knees, in many we had an opportunity
of observing every part. This dance was not finished, when we heard a noise, as if some horses
had been galloping toward us; and, on looking aside, we saw the people armed with clubs, who
had been desired, as we supposed, to entertain us with the sight of their manner of fighting.
This they now did, one party pursuing another who fled."

[Footnote 153: The dances of the inhabitants of the Caroline Islands have a great resemblance
to those here described. See Lettres Edif. et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 315. See also, in the
same volume, p. 207, what is said of the singing and dancing of the inhabitants of the Palaos
Islands, which belong to the same group.--D.]

"As we supposed the ceremony of being introduced to the chiefs was at an end, we began to look
about for Mr Gore and Omai; and, though the crowd would hardly suffer us to move, we at length
found them coming up, as much incommoded by the number of people as we had been, and introduced
in the same manner to the three chiefs, whose names were Otteroo, Taroa, and Fatouweera. Each
of these expected a present; and Mr Gore gave them such things as he had brought with him from
the ship, for that purpose. After this, making use of Omai as his interpreter, he informed
the chiefs with what intention we had come on shore; but was given to understand, that he must
wait till the next day, and then he should have what was wanted."

"They now seemed to take some pains to separate us from each other; and every one of us had
his circle to surround and gaze at him. For my own part, I was, at one time, above an hour
apart from my friends; and when I told the chief, with whom I sat, that I wanted to speak to
Omai, he peremptorily refused my request. At the same time, I found the people began to steal
several trifling things which I had in my pocket; and when I took the liberty of complaining
to the chief of this treatment, he justified it. From these circumstances, I now entertained
apprehensions, that they might have formed the design of detaining us amongst them. They did
not, indeed, seem to be of a disposition so savage, as to make us anxious for the safety of
our persons; but it was, nevertheless, vexing to think we had hazarded being detained by their
curiosity. In this situation, I asked for something to eat; and they readily brought to me
some cocoa-nuts, bread-fruit, and a sort of sour pudding; which was presented by a woman. And
on my complaining much of the heat, occasioned by the crowd, the chief himself condescended
to fan me, and gave me a small piece of cloth, which he had round his waist."

"Mr Burney happening to come to the place where I was, I mentioned my suspicions to him; and,
to put it to the test, whether they were well-founded, we attempted to get to the beach. But
we were stopped, when about halfway, by some men, who told us, that we must go back to the
place which we had left. On coming up, we found Omai entertaining the same apprehensions. But
he had, as he fancied, an additional reason for being afraid; for he had observed, that they
had dug a hole in the ground for an oven, which they were now heating; and he could assign
no other reason for this, than that they meant to roast and eat us, as is practised by the
inhabitants of New Zealand. Nay, he went so far as to ask them the question; at which they
were greatly surprised, asking, in return, whether that was a custom with us? Mr Burney and
I were rather angry that they should be thus suspected by him; there having, as yet, been no
appearances, in their conduct toward us, of their being capable of such brutality."

"In this manner we were detained the greatest part of the day, being sometimes together, and
sometimes separated, but always in a crowd; who, not satisfied with gazing at us, frequently
desired us to uncover part of our skin; the sight of which commonly produced a general murmur
of admiration. At the same time they did not omit these opportunities of rifling our pockets;
and, at last, one of them snatched a small bayonet from Mr Gore, which hung in its sheath by
his side. This was represented to the chief, who pretended to send some person in search of
it. But, in all probability, he countenanced the theft; for, soon after, Omai had a dagger
stolen from his side, in the same manner, though he did not miss it immediately."

"Whether they observed any signs of uneasiness in us, or that they voluntarily repeated their
emblems of friendship when we expressed a desire to go, I cannot tell; but, at this time, they
brought some green boughs, and, sticking their ends in the ground, desired we might hold them
as we sat. Upon out urging again the business we came upon, they gave us to understand, that
we must stay and eat with them; and a pig which we saw, soon after, lying near the oven, which
they had prepared and heated, removed Omai's apprehension of being put into it himself; and
made us think it might be intended for our repast. The chief also promised to send some people
to procure food for the cattle; but it was not till pretty late in the afternoon, that we saw
them return with a few plantain-trees, which they carried to our boats."

"In the mean time, Mr Barney and I attempted again to go to the beach; but when we arrived,
we found ourselves watched by people, who, to appearance, had been placed there for this purpose.
For when I tried to wade in upon the reef, one of them took hold of my clothes and dragged
me back. I picked up some small pieces of coral, which they required me to throw down again;
and, on my refusal, they made no scruple to take them forcibly from me. I had gathered some
small plants, but these also I could not be permitted to retain. And they took a fan from Mr
Barney, which he had received as a present on coming ashore. Omai said we had done wrong in
taking up any thing, for it was not the custom here to permit freedoms of that kind to strangers,
till they had, in some measure, naturalized them to the country, by entertaining them with
festivity for two or three days."

"Finding that the only method of procuring better treatment was to yield implicit obedience
to their will, we went up again to the place we had left; and they now promised that we should
have a canoe to carry us off to our boats, after we had eaten of a repast which they had prepared
for us."

"Accordingly the second chief, to whom we had been introduced in the morning, having seated
himself upon a low broad stool of blackish hard wood, tolerably polished, and, directing the
multitude to make a pretty large ring, made us sit down by him. A considerable number of cocoa-nuts
were now brought, and shortly after a long green basket, with a sufficient quantity of baked
plantains to have served a dozen persons. A piece of the young hog, that had been dressed,
was then set before each of us, of which we were desired to eat. Our appetites, however, had
failed from the fatigue of the day; and though we did eat a little to please them, it was without
satisfaction to ourselves."

"It being now near sun-set, we told them it was time to go on board. This they allowed, and
sent down to the beach the remainder of the victuals that had been dressed, to be carried with
us to the ships. But, before we set out, Omai was treated with a drink he had been used to
in his own country, which, we observed, was made here, as at other islands in the South Sea,
by chewing the root of a sort of pepper. We found a canoe ready to put us off to our boats,
which the natives did with the same caution as when we landed. But even here their thievish
disposition did not leave them. For a person of some consequence among them, who came with
us, took an opportunity, just as they were pushing the canoe into the surf, to snatch a bag
out of her, which I had with the greatest difficulty preserved all day, there being in it a
small pocket-pistol, which I was unwilling to part with. Perceiving him, I called out, expressing
as much displeasure as I could. On which he thought proper to return, and swim with the bag
to the canoe; but he denied he had stolen it, though detected in the very act. They put us
on board our boats, with the cocoa-nuts, plantains, and other provisions, which they had brought,
and we rowed to the ships, very well pleased that we had at last got out of the hands of our
troublesome masters."

"We regretted much that our restrained situation gave us so little opportunity of making observations
on the country; for, during the whole day, we were seldom a hundred yards from the place where
we were introduced to the chiefs on landing, and consequently, were confined to the surrounding
objects. The first thing that presented itself, worthy of our notice, was the number of people,
which must have been at least two thousand. For those who welcomed us on the shore bore no
proportion to the multitude we found amongst the trees, on proceeding a little way up."

"We could also observe, that, except a few, those we had hitherto seen on board were of the
lower class; for a great number of those we now met with had a superior dignity in their air,
and were of a much whiter cast. In general, they had the hair tied on the crown of the head,
long, black, and of a most luxuriant growth. Many of the young men were perfect models in shape,
of a complexion as delicate as that of the women, and, to appearance, of a disposition as amiable.
Others, who were more advanced in years, were corpulent; and all had a remarkable smoothness
of the skin. Their general dress was a piece of cloth, or mat, wrapped about the waist, and
covering the parts which modesty conceals. But some had pieces of mats, most curiously varied
with black and white, made into a sort of jacket without sleeves; and others wore conical caps
of cocoa-nut core, neatly interwoven with small beads, made of a shelly substance. Their ears
were pierced; and in them they hung bits of the membranous part of some plant, or stuck there
an odoriferous flower, which seemed to be a species of gardenia. Some, who were of a superior
class, and also the chiefs, had two little balls, with a common base, made from the bone of
some animal, which was hung round the neck, with a great many folds of small cord. And after
the ceremony of introduction to the chiefs was over, they then appeared without their red feathers,
which are certainly considered here as a particular mark of distinction, for none but themselves,
and the young women who danced, assumed them."

"Some of the men were punctured all over the sides and back in an uncommon manner; and some
of the women had the same ornament on their legs. But this method was confined to those who
seemed to be of a superior rank; and the men, in that case, were also generally distinguished
by their size and corpulence, unless very young. The women of an advanced age had their hair
cropped short; and many were cut in oblique lines all over the fore-part of the body; and some
of the wounds, which formed rhomboidal figures, had been so lately inflicted, that the coagulated
blood still remained in them."

"The wife of one of the chiefs appeared with her child, laid in a piece of red cloth, which
had been presented to her husband, and seemed to carry it with great tenderness, suckling it
much after the manner of our women. Another chief introduced his daughter, who was young and
beautiful, but appeared with all the timidity natural to the sex, though she gazed on us with
a kind of anxious concern, that seemed to struggle with her fear, and to express her astonishment
at so unusual a sight. Others advanced with more firmness, and indeed were less reserved than
we expected, but behaved with a becoming modesty. We did not observe any personal deformities
amongst either sex, except in a few who had scars of broad superficial ulcers remaining on
the face and other parts. In proportion to the number of people assembled, there appeared not
many old men or women; which may easily be accounted for, by supposing that such as were in
an advanced period of life, might neither have the inclination nor the ability to come from
the more distant parts of the island. On the other hand, the children were numerous; and both
these and the men climbed the trees to look at us when we were hid by the surrounding crowd."

"About a third part of the men were armed with clubs and spears; and probably these were only
the persons who had come from a distance, as many of them had small baskets, mats, and other
things, fastened to the ends of their weapons. The clubs were generally about six feet long,
made of a hard black wood, lance-shaped at the end, but much broader, with the edge nicely
scolloped, and the whole neatly polished. Others of them were narrower at the point, much shorter,
and plain; and some were even so small as to be used with one hand. The spears were made of
the same wood, simply pointed, and, in general, above twelve feet long; though some were so
short that they seemed intended to be thrown as darts."

"The place where we were all the day was under the shade of various trees, in which they preserved
their canoes from the sun. About eight or ten of them were here, all double ones, that is,
two single ones fastened together (as is usual throughout the whole extent of the Pacific Ocean)
by rafters lashed across. They were about twenty feet long, about four feet deep, and the sides
rounded with a plank raised upon them, which was fastened strongly by means of withes. Two
of these canoes were most curiously stained, or painted, all over with black, in numberless
small figures, as squares, triangles, &c. and excelled by far any thing of that kind I had
ever seen at any other island in this ocean. Our friends here, indeed, seemed to have exerted
more skill in doing this than in puncturing their own bodies. The paddles were about four feet
long, nearly elliptical, but broader at the upper end than the middle. Near the same place
was a hut or shed, about thirty feet long, and nine or ten high, in which, perhaps, these boats
are built; but at this time it was empty."

"The greatest number of the trees around us were cocoa-palms, some sorts of hibiscus, a species
of euphorbia, and, toward the sea, abundance of the same kind of trees we had seen at Mangeea
Nooe Nainaiwa, and which seemed to surround the shores of the island in the same manner. They
are tall and slender, not much unlike a cypress, but with bunches of long, round, articulated
leaves. The natives call them etoa. On the ground we saw some grass, a species of convolvulus,
and a good deal of treacle-mustard. There are also, doubtless, other fruit-trees and useful
plants which we did not see; for, besides several sorts of plantains, they brought, at different
times, roots which they call taro, (the coccos of other countries,) a bread-fruit, and a basket
of roasted nuts, of a kidney shape, in taste like a chesnut, but coarser."

"What the soil of the island may be farther inland we could not tell, but toward the sea it
is nothing more than a bank of coral, ten or twelve feet high, steep and rugged, except where
there are small sandy beaches at some clefts, where the ascent is gradual. The coral, though
it has probably been exposed to the weather for many centuries, has undergone no farther change
than becoming black on the surface, which, from its irregularity, is not much unlike large
masses of a burnt substance. But, on breaking some pieces off, we found that, at the depth
of two or three inches, it was just as fresh as the pieces that had been lately thrown upon
the beach by the waves. The reef, or rock, that lines the shore entirely, runs to different
breadths into the sea, where it ends all at once, and becomes like a high, steep wall. It is
nearly even with the surface of the water, and of a brown or brick colour; but the texture
is rather porous, yet sufficient to withstand the washing of the surf which continually breaks
upon it."

Though the landing of our gentlemen proved the means of enriching my journal with the foregoing
particulars, the principal object I had in view was, in a great measure, unattained; for the
day was spent without getting any one thing from the island worth mentioning. The natives,
however, were gratified with a sight they never before had, and probably will never have again.
And mere curiosity seems to have been their chief motive for keeping the gentlemen under such
restraint, and for using every art to prolong their continuance amongst them.

It has been mentioned that Omai was sent upon this expedition; and perhaps his being Mr Gore's
interpreter was not the only service he performed this day. He was asked by the natives a great
many questions concerning us, our ships, our country, and the sort of arms we used; and, according
to the account he gave me, his answers were not a little upon the marvellous. As, for instance,
he told them that our country had ships as large as their island, on board which were instruments
of war (describing our guns) of such dimensions that several people might sit within them,
and that one of them was sufficient to crush the whole island at one shot. This led them to
enquire of him what sort of guns we actually had in our two ships. He said, that though they
were but small in comparison with those he had just described, yet, with such as they were,
we could, with the greatest ease, and at the distance the ships were from the shore, destroy
the island, and kill every soul in it. They persevered in their enquiries, to know by what
means this could be done; and Omai explained the matter as well as he could. He happened luckily
to have a few cartridges in his pocket. These he produced; the balls, and the gunpowder which
was to set them in motion, were submitted to inspection; and, to supply the defects of his
description, an appeal was made to the senses of the spectators. It has been mentioned above,
that one of the chiefs had ordered the multitude to form themselves into a circle. This furnished
Omai with a convenient stage for his exhibition. In the centre of this amphitheatre, the inconsiderable
quantity of gunpowder collected from his cartridges was properly disposed upon the ground,
and, by means of a bit of burning wood from the oven, where dinner was dressing, set on fire.
The sudden blast and loud report, the mingled flame and smoke, that instantly succeeded, now
filled the whole assembly with astonishment. They no longer doubted the tremendous power of
our weapons, and gave full credit to all that Omai had said.

If it had not been for the terrible ideas they conceived of the guns of our ships, from this
specimen of their mode of operation, it was thought that they would have detained the gentlemen
all night. For Omai assured them, that if he and his companions did not return on board the
same day, they might expect that I would fire upon the island. And as we stood in nearer the
land in the evening, than we had done any time before, of which position of the ships they
were observed to take great notice, they probably thought we were meditating this formidable
attack, and, therefore, suffered their guests to depart; under the expectation, however, of
seeing them again on shore next morning. But I was too sensible of the risk they had already
run, to think of a repetition of the experiment.

This day, it seems, was destined to give Omai more occasions than one of being brought forward
to bear a principal part in its transactions. The island, though never before visited by Europeans,
actually happened to have other strangers residing in it; and it was entirely owing to Omai's
being one of Mr Gore's attendants, that this curious circumstance came to our knowledge.

Scarcely had he been landed upon the beach, when he found, amongst the crowd there assembled,
three of his own countrymen, natives of the Society Islands. At the distance of about 200 leagues
from those islands, an immense, unknown ocean intervening, with such wretched sea-boats as
their inhabitants are known to make use of, and fit only for a passage where sight of land
is scarcely ever lost, such a meeting, at such a place, so accidentally visited by us, may
well be looked upon as one of those unexpected situations with which the writers of feigned
adventures love to surprise their readers, and which, when they really happen in common life,
deserve to be recorded for their singularity.

It may easily be guessed with what mutual surprise and satisfaction Omai and his countrymen
engaged in conversation. Their story, as related by them, is an affecting one. About twenty
persons in number, of both sexes, had embarked on board a canoe at Otaheite, to cross over
to the neighbouring island Ulietea. A violent contrary wind arising, they could neither reach
the latter nor get back to the former. Their intended passage being a very short one, their
stock of provisions was scanty, and soon exhausted. The hardships they suffered, while driven
along by the storm they knew not whither, are not to be conceived. They passed many days without
having any thing to eat or drink. Their numbers gradually diminished, worn out by famine and
fatigue. Four men only survived when the canoe overset, and then the perdition of this small
remnant seemed inevitable. However, they kept hanging by the side of their vessel during some
of the last days, till Providence brought them in sight of the people of this island, who immediately
sent out canoes, took them off their wreck, and brought them ashore. Of the four who were thus
saved, one was since dead. The other three, who lived to have this opportunity of giving an
account of their almost miraculous transplantation, spoke highly of the kind treatment they
here met with. And so well satisfied were they with their situation, that they refused the
offer made to them by our gentlemen, at Omai's request, of giving them a passage on board our
ships, to restore them to their native islands. The similarity of manners and language had
more than naturalized them to this spot; and the fresh connexions which they had here formed,
and which it would have been painful to have broken off after such a length of time, sufficiently
account for their declining to revisit the places of their birth. They had arrived upon this
island at least twelve years ago. For I learnt from Mr Anderson, that he found they knew nothing
of Captain Wallis's visit to Otaheite in 1765, nor of several other memorable occurrences,
such as the conquest of Ulietea by those of Bolabola, which had preceded the arrival of the
Europeans. To Mr Anderson I am also indebted for their names, Orououte, Otirreroa, and Tavee;
the first born at Matavai in Otaheite, the second at Ulietea, and the third at Huaheine.

The landing of our gentlemen on this island, though they failed in the object of it, cannot
but be considered as a very fortunate circumstance. It has proved, as we have seen, the means
of bringing to our knowledge a matter of fact, not only very curious, but very instructive.
The application of the above narrative is obvious. It will serve to explain, better than a
thousand conjectures of speculative reasoners, how the detached parts of the earth, and, in
particular, how the islands of the South Sea, may have been first peopled, especially those
that lie remote from any inhabited continent, or from each other.[154]

[Footnote 154: Such accidents as this here related, probably happen frequently in the Pacific
Ocean. In 1696, two canoes, having on board thirty persons of both sexes, were driven by contrary
winds and tempestuous weather on the isle of Samal, one of the Philippines, after being tossed
about at sea seventy days, and having performed a voyage from an island called by them Arnorsot,
300 leagues to the E. of Samal. Five of the number who had embarked died of the hardships suffered
during this extraordinary passage. See a particular account of them, and of the islands they
belonged to, in Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. from p. 196 to p. 215. In the same
volume, from p. 282 to p. 320, we have the relation of a similar adventure in 1721, when two
canoes, one containing twenty-four, and the other six, persons, men, women, and children, were
driven from an island they called Farroilep, northward to the Isle of Guam, or Guahan, one
of the Ladrones or Mariannes. But these had not sailed so far as their countrymen who reached
Samal, as above, and they had been at sea only twenty days. There seems to be no reason to
doubt the general authenticity of these two relations. The information contained in the Letters
of the Jesuits about these islands, now known under the name of the Carolines, and discovered
to the Spaniards by the arrival of the canoes at Samal and Guam, has been adopted by all our
later writers. See President de Brosse's Voyages aux Terres Australes, tom. ii. from p. 443
to p. 490. See also the Modern Universal History.--D.]

This island is called Wateeoo by the natives. It lies in the latitude of 20° 1' S. and in the
longitude 201° 45' E., and is about six leagues in circumference. It is a beautiful spot, with
a surface composed of hills and plains, and covered with verdure of many hues. Our gentlemen
found the soil, where they passed the day, to be light and sandy. But farther up the country,
a different sort perhaps prevails, as we saw from the ship, by the help of our glasses, a reddish
cast upon the rising grounds. There the inhabitants have their houses; for we could perceive
two or three, which were long and spacious. Its produce, with the addition of hogs, we found
to be the same as at the last island we had visited, which the people of this, to whom we pointed
out its position, called Owhavarouah, a name so different from Mangeea Nooe Nainaiwa, which
we learnt from its own inhabitants, that it is highly probably Owhavarouah is another island.

From the circumstances already mentioned, it appears that Wateeoo can be of little use to any
ship that wants refreshment, unless in a case of the most absolute necessity. The natives,
knowing now the value of some of our commodities, might be induced to bring off fruits and
hogs to a ship standing off and on, or to boats lying off the reef, as ours did. It is doubtful,
however, if any fresh water could be procured; for, though some was brought in cocoa-nut shells
to the gentlemen, they were told that it was at a considerable distance; and, probably, it
is only to be met with in some stagnant pool, as no running stream was any where seen.

According to Omai's report of what he learnt in conversation with his three countrymen, the
manners of these islanders, their method of treating strangers, and their general habits of
life, are much like those that prevail at Otaheite, and its neighbouring isles. Their religious
ceremonies and opinions are also nearly the same. For, upon seeing one man who was painted
all over of a deep black colour, and enquiring the reason, our gentlemen were told that he
had lately been paying the last good offices to a deceased friend; and they found, that it
was upon similar occasions the women cut themselves, as already mentioned. From, every circumstance,
indeed, it is indubitable, that the natives of Wateeoo sprung originally from the same stock,
which hath spread itself so wonderfully all over the immense extent of the South Sea. One would
suppose, however, that they put in their claim to a more illustrious extraction; for Omai assured
us, that they dignified their island with the appellation of Wenooa no te Eatooa, that is,
A land of gods; esteeming themselves a sort of divinities, and possessed with the spirit of
the Eatooa. This wild enthusiastic notion Omai seemed much to approve of, telling us there
were instances of its being entertained at Otaheite, but that it was universally prevalent
amongst the inhabitants of Mataia, or Osnaburg Island.

The language spoken at Wateeoo was equally well understood by Omai, and by our two New Zealanders.
What its peculiarities may be, when compared with the other dialects, I am not able to point
out; for, though Mr Anderson had taken care to note down a specimen of it, the natives, who
made no distinction of the objects of their theft, stole the memorandum book.

Light airs and calms having prevailed, by turns, all the night of the 3d of April, the easterly
swell had carried the ships some distance from Wateeoo before day-break. But as I had failed
in my object of procuring at that place some effectual supply, I saw no reason for staying
there any longer. I therefore quitted it, without regret, and steered, for the neighbouring
island, which, as has been mentioned, we discovered three days before.

With a gentle breeze at E. we got up with it before ten o'clock in the morning, and I immediately
dispatched Mr Gore, with two boats, to endeavour to land, and get some food for our cattle.
As there seemed to be no inhabitants here to obstruct our taking away whatever we might think
proper, I was confident of his being able to make amends for our late disappointment, if the
landing could be effected. There was a reef here surrounding the land as at Wateeoo, and a
considerable surf breaking against the rocks. Notwithstanding which, our boats no sooner reached
the lee, or west side of the island, but they ventured in, and Mr Gore and his party got safe
on shore. I could, from the ship, see that they had succeeded so far, and I immediately sent
a small boat to know what farther assistance was wanting. She did not return till three o'clock
in the afternoon, having waited to take in a lading of what useful produce the island afforded.
As soon as she was cleared, she was sent again for another cargo; the jolly boat was also dispatched,
and Mr Gore was ordered to be on board, with all the boats, before night, which was complied with.

The supply obtained here consisted of about a hundred cocoa nuts for each ship; and, besides
this refreshment for ourselves, we got for our cattle some grass, and a quantity of the leaves
and branches of young cocoa-trees, and of the wharra-tree, as it is called at Otaheite, the
pandanus of the East Indies. This latter being of a soft, spungy, juicy nature, the cattle
eat it very well when cut into small pieces; so that it might be said, without any deviation
from truth, that we fed them upon billet wood.

This island lies in the latitude of 19° 51' S. and the longitude of 201° 37' E, about three
or four leagues from Wateeoo, the inhabitants of which called it Otakootaia; and sometimes
they spoke of it under the appellation of Wenooa-ette, which signifies little island. Mr Anderson,
who was on shore with our party, and walked round it, guessed that it could not be much more
than three miles in circuit. From him I also learned the following particulars: The beach,
within the reef, is composed of a white coral sand, above which the land within does not rise
above six or seven feet, and is covered with a light reddish soil, but is entirely destitute
of water.

The only common trees found there were cocoa-palms, of which there were several clusters, and
vast numbers of the wharra. There was likewise the callophyllum, suriana, guettarda, a species
of tournefortia, and tabernae montanae, with a few other shrubs, and some of the etoa tree
seen at Wateeoo. A sort of bind-weed over-ran the vacant spaces, except in some places, where
was found a considerable quantity of treacle-mustard, a species of spurge, with a few other
small plants, and the morinda citrifolia, the fruit of which is eaten by the natives of Otaheite
in times of scarcity. Omai, who had landed with the party, dressed some of it for their dinner,
but it proved very indifferent.

The only bird seen amongst the trees was a beautiful cuckoo, of a chesnut brown, variegated
with black, which was shot. But upon the shore were some egg-birds; a small sort of curlew;
blue and white herons; and a great number of noddies; which last, at this time, laid their
eggs a little farther up on the ground, and often rested on the wharra-tree.

One of our people caught a lizard of a most forbidding aspect, though small, running up a tree;
and many of another sort were seen. The bushes toward the sea were frequented by infinite cumbers
of a sort of moth, elegantly speckled with red, black, and white. There were also several other
sorts of moths, as well as some pretty butterflies, and a few other insects.

Though there were, at this time, no fixed inhabitants upon the island, indubitable marks remained
of its being at least occasionally frequented. In particular, a few empty huts were found.
There were also several large stones erected, like monuments, under the shade of some trees,
and several spaces inclosed with smaller ones, where, probably, the dead had been buried. And,
in one place, a great many cockle-shells, of a particular sort, finely grooved, and larger
than the first, were to be seen; from which it was reasonable to conjecture, that the island
had been visited by persons who feed partly on shell-fish. In one of the huts Mr Gore left
a hatchet and some nails, to the full value of what we took away.

As soon as the boats were hoisted in, I made sail again to the northward, with a light air
of wind easterly, intending to try our fortune at Hervey's Island, which was discovered in
1773, during my last voyage. Although it was not above fifteen leagues distant, yet we did
not get sight of it till day-break in the morning of the 6th, when it bore W.S.W. at the distance
of about three leagues. As we drew near it, at eight o'clock, we observed several canoes put
off from the shore, and they came directly toward the ships. This was a sight that indeed surprised
me, as no signs of inhabitants were seen when the island was first discovered; which might
be owing to a pretty brisk wind that then blew, and prevented their canoes venturing out as
the ships passed to leeward, whereas now we were to windward.

As we still kept on toward the island, six or seven of the canoes, all double ones, soon came
near us. There were from three to six men in each of them. They stopped at the distance of
about a stone's throw from the ship, and it was some time before Omai could prevail upon them
to come along-side; but no entreaties could induce any of them to venture on board. Indeed,
their disorderly and clamorous behaviour by no means indicated a disposition to trust us, or
treat us well. We afterward learnt that they had attempted to take some oars out of the Discovery's
boat, that lay along-side, and struck a man who endeavoured to prevent them. They also cut
away, with a shell, a net with meat, which hung over that ship's stern, and absolutely refused
to restore it, though we afterward purchased it from them. Those who were about our ship behaved
in the same daring manner; for they made a sort of hook of a long stick, with which they endeavoured
openly to rob us of several things, and, at last, actually got a frock, belonging to one of
our people that was towing, overboard. At the same time they immediately shewed a knowledge
of bartering, and sold some fish they had (amongst which was an extraordinary flounder, spotted
like porphyry, and a cream-coloured eel, spotted with black) for small nails, of which they
were immoderately fond, and called them goore. But, indeed, they caught with the greatest avidity
bits of paper, or any thing else that was thrown to them; and if what was thrown fell into
the sea, they made no scruple to swim after it.

These people seemed to differ as much in person as in disposition from the natives of Wateeoo,
though the distance between the two islands is not very great. Their colour was of a deeper
cast; and several had a fierce, rugged aspect, resembling the natives of New Zealand, but some
were fairer. They had strong black hair, which, in general, they wore either hanging loose
about the shoulders, or tied in a bunch on the crown of the head. Some, however, had it cropped
pretty short; and in two or three of them it was of a brown or reddish colour. Their only covering
was a narrow piece of mat, wrapt several times round the lower part of the body, and which
passed between the thighs; but a fine cap of red feathers was seen lying in one of the canoes.
The shell of a pearl-oyster polished, and hung about the neck, was the only ornamental fashion
that we observed amongst them, for not one of them had adopted that mode of ornament so generally
prevalent amongst the natives of this ocean, of puncturing, or tatooing, their bodies.

Though singular in this, we had the most unequivocal proofs of their being of the same common
race. Their language approached still nearer to the dialect of Otaheite than that of Wateeoo
or Mangeea. Like the inhabitants of these two islands, they enquired from whence our ships
came, and whither bound, who was our chief, the number of our men on board, and even the ship's
name. And they very readily answered such questions as we proposed to them. Amongst other things,
they told us they had seen two great ships like ours before, but that they had not spoken with
them as they sailed past. There can be no doubt that these were the Resolution and Adventure.
We learnt from them, that the name of their island is Terouggemon Atooa, and that they were
subject to Teerevatooeah, king of Wateeoo.[155] According to the account that they gave, their
articles of food are cocoa-nuts, fish, and turtle; the island not producing plantains, or bread-fruit,
and being destitute of hogs and dogs. Their canoes, of which near thirty were, at one time,
in sight, are pretty large, and well built. In the construction of the stern, they bear some
resemblance to those of Wateeoo; and the head projects out nearly in the same manner, but the
extremity is turned up instead of down.

[Footnote 155: The reader will observe, that this name bears little affinity to anyone of the
names of the three chiefs of Wateeoo, as preserved by Mr Anderson.--D.]

Having but very little wind, it was one o'clock before we drew near the N.W. part of the island,
the only part where there seemed to be any probability of finding anchorage for our ships,
or a landing-place for our boats. In this position I sent Lieutenant King, with two armed boats,
to sound and reconnoitre the coast, while we stood off and on with the ships. The instant the
boats were hoisted out, our visitors in the canoes, who had remained alongside all the while,
bartering their little trifles, suspended their traffic, and, pushing for the shore as fast
as they could, came near us no more.

At three o'clock the boats returned, and Mr King informed me, "That there was no anchorage
for the ships, and that the boats could only land on the outer edge of the reef, which lay
about a quarter of a mile from the dry land. He said that a number of the natives came down
upon the reef, armed with long pikes and clubs, as if they intended to oppose his landing.
And yet, when he drew near enough, they threw some cocoa-nuts to our people, and invited them
to come on shore, though, at the very same time, he observed that the women were very busy
bringing down a fresh supply of spears and darts. But, as he had no motive to land, he did
not give them an opportunity to use them."

Having received this report, I considered, that, as the ships could not be brought to an anchor,
we should find that the attempt to procure grass here would occasion much delay, as well as
be attended with some danger. Besides, we were equally in want of water; and though the inhabitants
had told us that there was water on their island, yet we neither knew in what quantity, nor
from what distance we might be obliged to fetch it. And, after all, supposing no other obstruction,
we were sure, that to get over the reef would be an operation equally difficult and tedious.

Being thus disappointed at all the islands we had met with since our leaving New Zealand, and
the unfavourable winds, and other unforeseen circumstances, having unavoidably retarded our
progress so much, it was now impossible to think of doing any thing this year in the high latitudes
of the northern hemisphere, from which we were still at so great a distance, though the season
for our operations there was already begun. In this situation it was absolutely necessary to
pursue such measures as were most likely to preserve the cattle we had on board in the first
place; and, in the next place, (which was still a more capital object,) to save the stores
and provisions of the ships, that we might be better enabled to prosecute our northern discoveries,
which could not now commence till a year later than was originally intended.

If I had been so fortunate as to have procured a supply of water and of grass at any of the
islands we had lately visited, it was my purpose to have stood back to the S. till I had met
with a westerly wind. But the certain consequence of doing this, without such a supply, would
have been the loss of all the cattle, before we could possibly reach Otaheite, without gaining
any one advantage with regard to the great object of our voyage.

I therefore determined to bear away for the Friendly Islands, where I was sure of meeting with
abundance of every thing I wanted; and it being necessary to run in the night as well as in
the day, I ordered Captain Clerke to keep about a league a-head of the Resolution. I used this
precaution because his ship could best claw off the land; and it was very possible we might
fall in with some in our passage.

The longitude of Hervey's Island, when first discovered, deduced from Otaheite, by the time-keeper,
was found to be 201° 6' E., and now, by the same time-keeper, deduced from Queen Charlotte's
Sound, 200° 56' E. Hence I conclude, that the error of the time-keeper, at this time, did not
exceed twelve miles in longitude.

When we bore away, I steered W. by S. with a fine breeze easterly. I proposed to proceed first
to Middleburgh, or Eooa, thinking, if the wind continued favourable, that we had food enough
on board for the cattle to last till we should reach that island. But, about noon next day,
those faint breezes that had attended and retarded us so long, again returned; and I found
it necessary to haul more to the N. to get into the latitude of Palmerston's and Savage Islands,
discovered in 1774, during my last voyage, that, if necessity required it, we might have recourse
to them.

This day, in order to save our water, I ordered the still to be kept at work from six o'clock
in the morning to four in the afternoon, during which time we procured from thirteen to sixteen
gallons of fresh water. There has been lately made some improvement, as they are pleased to
call it, of this machine, which, in my opinion, is much for the, worse.

These light breezes continued till the 10th, when we had, for some hours, the wind blowing
fresh from the N. and N.N.W., being then in the latitude of 18° 38', and longitude 198° 24'
E. In the afternoon we had some thunder squalls from the S. attended with heavy rain; of which
water we collected enough to fill five puncheons. After these squalls had blown over, the wind
came round to the N.E. and N.W., being very unsettled both in strength and in position till
about noon the next day, when it fixed at N.W. and N.N.W. and blew a fresh breeze, with fair
weather.

Thus were we persecuted with a wind in our teeth whichever way we directed our course; and
we had the additional mortification to find here those very winds which we had reason to expect
8° or 10° farther S. They came too late, for I durst not trust their continuance; and the event
proved that I judged right.

At length, at day-break in the morning of the 13th, we saw Palmerston Island, bearing W. by
S. distant about five leagues. However, we did not get up with it till eight o'clock the next
morning. I then sent four boats, three from the Resolution and one from the Discovery, with
an officer in each, to search the coast for the most convenient landing-place. For now we were
under an absolute necessity of procuring from this island some food for the cattle, otherwise
we must have lost them.

What is comprehended under the name of Palmerston's Island, is a group of small islets, of
which there are in the whole nine or ten, lying in a circular direction, and connected together,
by a reef of coral rocks. The boats first examined the south-easternmost of the islets which
compose this group, and, failing there, ran down to the second, where we had the satisfaction
to see them land. I then bore down with the ships till abreast of the place, and there we kept
standing off and on; for no bottom was to be found to anchor upon, which was not of much consequence,
as the party who had landed from our boats were the only human beings upon the island.

About one o'clock one of the boats came on board, laden with scurvy-grass and young cocoa-nut
trees, which, at this time, was a feast for the cattle. The same boat brought a message from
Mr Gore, who commanded the party, informing me that there was plenty of such produce upon the
island, as also of the wharra tree, and some cocoa-nuts. This determined me to get a good supply
of these articles before I quitted this station, and, before evening, I went ashore in a small
boat, accompanied by Captain Clerke.

We found every body hard at work, and the landing place to be in a small creek, formed by the
reef, of something more than a boat's length in every direction, and covered from the force
of the sea by rocks projecting out on each side of it. The island is scarcely a mile in circuit,
and not above three feet higher than the level of the sea. It appeared to be composed entirely
of a coral sand, with a small mixture of blackish mould, produced from rotten vegetables. Notwithstanding
this poor soil, it is covered with trees and bushes of the same kind as at Wanooa-ette, though
with less variety; and amongst these are some cocoa palms. Upon the trees or bushes that front
the sea, or even farther in, we found a great number of men-of-war birds, tropic birds, and
two sorts of boobies, which at this time were laying their eggs, and so tame, that they suffered
us to take them off with our hands. Their nests were only a few sticks loosely put together;
and the tropic birds laid their eggs on the ground, under the trees. These differ much from
the common sort, being entirely of a most splendid white, slightly tinged with red, and having
the two long tail-feathers of a deep crimson or blood colour. Of each sort our people killed
a considerable number; and, though not the most delicate food, they were acceptable enough
to us who had been long confined to a salt diet, and who, consequently, could not but be glad
of the most indifferent variety. We met with vast numbers of red crabs, creeping about every
where amongst the trees; and we caught several fish that had been left in holes upon the reef
when the sea retired.

At one part of the reef, which looks into, or bounds, the lake that is within, there was a
large bed of coral, almost even with the surface, which afforded, perhaps, one of the most
enchanting prospects that nature has any where produced. Its base was fixed to the shore, but
reached so far in that it could not be seen; so that it seemed to be suspended in the water,
which deepened so suddenly, that at the distance of a few yards there might be seven or eight
fathoms. The sea was at this time quite unruffled; and the sun shining bright, exposed the
various sorts of coral in the most beautiful order; some parts branching into the water with
great luxuriance; others lying collected in round balls, and in various other figures;--all
which were greatly heightened by spangles of the richest colours, that glowed from a number
of large clams, which were every where interspersed: But the appearance of these was still
inferior to that of the multitude of fishes that glided gently along, seemingly with the most
perfect security. The colours of the different sorts were the most beautiful that can be imagined,
the yellow, blue, red, black, &c. far exceeding any thing that art can produce. Their various
forms, also, contributed to increase the richness of this submarine grotto, which could not
be surveyed without a pleasing transport, mixed however with regret, that a work so stupendously
elegant should be concealed in a place where mankind could seldom have an opportunity of rendering
the praises justly due to so enchanting a scene.[156]

[Footnote 156: How beautifully does Captain Cook's description illustrate those lines of Dr Young--

   --Such blessings Nature pours,
   O'erstock'd mankind enjoy but half her stores;
   In distant wilds, by human eyes unseen,

   She rears her flowers, and spreads her velvet green:
   Pure gurgling rills the lonely desert trace,
   And waste their music on the savage race.

Gray has a similar thought in His inimitable elegy, which every reader will immediately recollect.
Can it be imagined, that nature, which does nothing in vain, nor indeed without a reference
to the being who is eminently signalized as lord of the lower creation, has been at pains to
decorate these spots, but in anticipation, if one may use the expression, of the praise and
enjoyment which their loveliness will some time or other occasion? He that remembers the nature
and formation of the coral isles in the southern-ocean, will at once conjecture that the Great
Architect is raising up the materials of a new world, which, from aught we can yet perceive,
will not less indicate his power and goodness than that which we now inhabit. How readily,
then, can imagination fashion out the future destiny of our globe, on the supposition that
the conflagration by which its presently inhabited portions are expected to be destroyed, shall
not be so complete as to annihilate it from the universe! Or, believing what is usually understood,
by that event, on the authority of scripture, how clearly can reason deduce from present appearances
certain minor, but nevertheless immense, changes, which it may undergo previous to this final
dissolution! But the reader, it is probable, will not chuse to venture on so terrific an excursion,
and there is a motive for caution with respect to it, with which it may not be amiss to apprise
the too zealous enquirer. The fact is, that none of the causes which we know to be now operating
on our globe, seem at all adequate to account for all the changes it has already undergone.
We may, therefore, very fairly infer, that an indefinite allowance must be granted to exterior
interference of some sort or other, the agency of which may altogether subvert whatever is
now known to exist.--See Cuvier's Essay, lately published at Edinburgh.--E.]

There were no traces of inhabitants having ever been here, if we except a small piece of a
canoe that was found upon the beach, which, probably, may have drifted from some other island.
But, what is pretty extraordinary, we saw several small brown rats on this spot, a circumstance,
perhaps, difficult to account for, unless we allow that they were imported in the canoe of
which we saw the remains.

After the boats were laden I returned on board, leaving Mr Gore, with a party, to pass the
night on shore, in order to be ready to go to work early the next morning.

That day, being the 15th, was accordingly spent as the preceding one had been, in collecting
and bringing on board food for the cattle, consisting chiefly of palm-cabbage, young cocoa-nut
trees, and the tender branches of the wharra tree. Having got a sufficient supply of these
by sun-set, I ordered every body on board. But having little or no wind, I determined to wait,
and to employ the next day by endeavouring to get some cocoa-nuts for our people from the next
island to leeward, where we could observe that those trees were in much greater abundance than
upon that where we had already landed, and where only the wants of our cattle had been relieved.

With this view I kept standing off and on all night, and in the morning, between eight and
nine o'clock, I went with the boats to the W. side of the island, and landed with little difficulty.
I immediately set the people with me to work to gather cocoa-nuts, which we found in great
abundance. But to get them to our boats was a tedious operation, for we were obliged to carry
them at least half a mile over the reef up to the middle in water. Omai, who was with me, caught,
with a scoop net, in a very short time, as much fish as served the whole party on shore for
dinner, besides sending some to both ships. Here were also great abundance of birds, particularly
men-of-war and tropic birds, so that we fared sumptuously. And it is but doing justice to Omai
to say, that in these excursions to the uninhabited islands he was of the greatest use; for
he not only caught the fish, but dressed these, and the birds we killed, in an oven with heated
stones, after the fashion of his country, with a dexterity and good-humour that did him great
credit. The boats made two trips before night, well laden: With the last I returned on board,
leaving Mr Williamson, my third lieutenant, with a party of men, to prepare another lading
for the boats, which I proposed to send next morning.

I accordingly dispatched them at seven o'clock; and they returned laden by noon. No time was
lost in sending them back for another cargo; and they carried orders for every body to be on
board by sunset. This being complied with, we hoisted in the boats and made sail to the westward,
with a light air of wind from the N.

We found this islet near a half larger than the other, and almost entirely covered with cocoa-palms,
the greatest part of which abounded with excellent nuts, having often both old and young on
the same tree. They were, indeed, too thick in many places to grow with freedom. The other
productions were, in general, the same as at the other islet. Two pieces of board, one of which
was rudely carved, with an elliptical paddle, were found on the beach. Probably these had belonged
to the same canoe, the remains of which were seen on the other beach, as the two islets are
not above half a mile apart. A young turtle had also been lately thrown ashore here; as it
was still full of maggots. There were fewer crabs than at the last place; but we found some
scorpions, a few other insects, and a greater number of fish upon the reefs. Amongst these
were some large eels, beautifully spotted, which, when followed, would raise themselves out
of the water, and endeavour with an open mouth to bite their pursuers. The other sorts were
chiefly parrot-fish, snappers, and a brown spotted rock-fish, about the size of a haddock,
so tame, that instead of swimming away, it would remain fixed and gaze at us. Had we been in
absolute want, a sufficient supply might have been had; for thousands of the clams, already
mentioned, stuck upon the reef, some of which weighed two or three pounds. There were, besides,
some other sorts of shell-fish, particularly the large periwinkle. When the tide flowed several
sharks came in over the reef, some of which our people killed, but they rendered it rather
dangerous to walk in the water at that time.

The party who were left on shore with Mr Williamson, were a good deal pestered (as Mr Gore's
had been) with musquitoes in the night. Some of them, in their excursions, shot two curlews,
exactly like those of England, and saw some plovers, or sand-pipers, upon the shore; but in
the wood no other bird, besides one or two of the cuckoos that were seen at Wenooa-ette.

Upon the whole, we did not spend our time unprofitably at this last islet, for we got there
about twelve hundred cocoa-nuts, which were equally divided amongst the whole crew, and were,
doubtless, of great use to them, both on account of the juice and of the kernel. A ship, therefore,
passing this way, if the weather be moderate, may expect to succeed as we did. But there is
no water upon either of the islets where we landed. Were that article to be had, and a passage
could be got into the lake, as we may call it, surrounded by the reef, where a ship could anchor,
I should prefer this to any of the inhabited islands, if the only want were refreshment. For
the quantity of fish that might be procured would be sufficient, and the people might roam
about unmolested by the petulance of any inhabitants.

The nine or ten low islets, comprehended under the name of Palmerston's Island, may be reckoned
the heads or summits of the reef of coral rock that connects them together, covered only with
a thin coat of sand, yet clothed, as already observed, with trees and plants, most of which
are of the same sorts that are found on the low grounds of the high islands of this ocean.

There are different opinions amongst ingenious theorists concerning the formation of such low
islands as Palmerston's. Some will have it, that in remote times these little separate heads
or islets were joined, and formed one continued and more elevated tract of land, which the
sea, in the revolution of ages, has washed away, leaving only the higher grounds; which, in
time also, will, according to this theory, share the same fate. Another conjecture is, that
they have been thrown up by earthquakes, and are the effect of internal convulsions of the
globe. A third opinion, and which appears to me as the most probable one, maintains, that they
are formed from shoals or coral banks, and, of consequence, increasing. Without mentioning
the several arguments made use of in support of each of these systems, I shall only describe
such parts of Palmerston's Island as fell under my own observation when I landed upon it.

The foundation is every where a coral rock; the soil is coral sand, with which the decayed
vegetables have but in a few places intermixed, so as to form any thing like mould. From this
a very strong presumption may be drawn, that these little spots of land are not of very ancient
date, nor the remains of larger islands now buried in the ocean; for, upon either of these
suppositions, more mould must have been formed, or some part of the original soil would have
remained. Another circumstance confirmed this doctrine of the increase of these islets. We
found upon them, far beyond the present reach of the sea even in the most violent storms, elevated
coral rocks, which, on examination, appeared to have been perforated in the same manner that
the rocks are that now compose the outer edge of the reef. This evidently shews that the sea
had formerly reached so far; and some of these perforated rocks were almost in the centre of
the land.

But the strongest proof of the increase, and from the cause we have assigned, was the gentle
gradation observable in the plants round the skirts of the islands; from within a few inches
of high-water mark to the edge of the wood. In many places, the divisions of the plants of
different growths were very distinguishable, especially on the lee or west side. This I apprehend
to have been the operation of extraordinary high tides, occasioned by violent, accidental gales
from the westward, which have heaped up the sand beyond the reach of common tides. The regular
and gentle operation of these latter, again, throw up sand enough to form a barrier against
the next extraordinary high tide or storm, so as to prevent its reaching as far as the former
had done, and destroying the plants that may have begun to vegetate from cocoa-nuts, roots,
and seed brought thither by birds, or thrown up by the sea. This, doubtless, happens very frequently,
for we found many cocoa-nuts, and some other things, just sprouting up, only a few inches beyond
where the sea reaches at present, in places where it was evident they could not have had their
origin from those farther in, already arrived at their full growth. At the same time, the increase
of vegetables will add fast to the height of this new-created land, as the fallen leaves and
broken branches are, in such a climate, soon converted into a true black mould or soil.[157]

[Footnote 157: Mr Anderson, in his journal, mentions the following particulars relative to
Palmerston's Island, which strongly confirm Captain Cook's opinion about its formation. "On
the last of the two islets, where we landed, the trees, being in great numbers, had already
formed, by their rotten parts, little risings or eminences, which in time, from the same cause,
may become small hills. Whereas, on the first islet, the trees being less numerous, no such
thing had as yet happened. Nevertheless, on that little spot the manner of formation was more
plainly pointed out; for, adjoining to it was a small isle, which had doubtless been very lately
formed, as it was not as yet covered with any trees, but had a great many shrubs, some of which
were growing among pieces of coral that the sea had thrown up. There was still a more sure
proof of this method of formation a little farther on, where two patches of sand, about fifty
yards long, and a foot or eighteen inches high, lay upon the reef, but not as yet furnished
with a single bush or tree."--D.

In a former volume we quoted a passage from Dr Forster's observations respecting the formation
of coral islands. Captain Flinders gives a similar account in vol. ii. p. 114, of his voyage,
drawn up from his own observations on Half-way Island, on the north coast of Terra Australis.
It is too long for this place. The reader will find it transcribed, together with Forster's,
in the notes to the translation of Cuvier's work, already referred to.--E.]

Perhaps there is another cause, which, if allowed, will accelerate the increase of these islands
as much as any other, and will also account for the sea having receded from those elevated
rocks before mentioned. This is the spreading of the coral bank, or reef, into the sea, which,
in my opinion, is continually, though imperceptibly, effected. The waves receding, as the reef
grows in breadth and height, leave a dry rock behind, ready for the reception of the broken
coral and sand, and every other deposit necessary for the formation of land fit for the vegetation
of plants.

In this manner, there is little doubt, that in time the whole reef will become one island;
and, I think, it will extend gradually inward, either from the increase of the islets already
formed, or from the formation of new ones upon the beds of coral within the inclosed lake,
if once they increase so as to rise above the level of the sea.

After leaving Palmerston's Island, I steered W., with a view to make the best of my way to
Annamooka. We still continued to have variable winds, frequently between the N. and W., with
squalls, some thunder, and much rain. During these showers, which were generally very copious,
we saved a considerable quantity of water; and finding that we could get a greater supply by
the rain in one hour than we could get by distillation in a month, I laid aside the still as
a thing attended with more trouble than profit.

The heat, which had been great for about a month, became now much more disagreeable in this
close rainy weather; and, from the moisture attending it, threatened soon to be noxious, as
the ships could not be kept dry, nor the skuttles open, for the sea. However, it is remarkable
enough, that though the only refreshment we had received since leaving the Cape of Good Hope
was that at New Zealand, there was not as yet a single person on board sick from the constant
use of salt food, or vicissitude of climate.

In the night between the 24th and 25th we passed Savage Island, which I had discovered in 1774;
and on the 28th, at ten o'clock in the morning, we got sight of the islands which lie to the
eastward of Annamooka, bearing N. by W. about four or five leagues distant. I steered to the
S. of these islands, and then hauled up for Annamooka, which, at four in the afternoon, bore
N.W. by N., Fallafajeea S.W. by S., and Komango N. by W., distant about five miles. The weather
being squally, with rain, I anchored, at the approach of night, in fifteen fathoms deep water,
over a bottom of coral-sand and shells, Komango bearing N.W. about two leagues distant.

Soon after we had anchored, (April 28) two canoes, the one with four, and the other with three
men, paddled toward us, and came alongside without the least hesitation. They brought some
cocoa-nuts, bread-fruit, plantains, and sugar-cane, which they bartered with us for nails.
One of the men came on board; and when these canoes had left us, another visited us; but did
not stay long, as night was approaching. Komango, the island nearest to us, was, at least,
five miles off; which shews the hazard these people would run, in order to possess a few of
our most trifling articles. Besides this supply from the shore, we caught, this evening, with
hooks and lines, a considerable quantity of fish.

Next morning, at four o'clock, I sent Lieutenant King, with two boats, to Komango, to procure
refreshments; and, at five, made the signal to weigh, in order to ply up to Annamooka, the
wind being unfavourable at N.W.

It was no sooner day-light, than we were visited by six or seven canoes from different islands,
bringing with them, besides fruits and roots, two pigs, several fowls, some large wood-pigeons,
small rails, and large violet-coloured coots. All these they exchanged with us for beads, nails,
hatchets, &c. They had also other articles of commerce; such as pieces of their cloth, fish-hooks,
small baskets, musical reeds, and some clubs, spears, and bows. But I ordered, that no curiosities
should be purchased, till the ships should be supplied with provisions, and leave given for
that purpose. Knowing also, from experience, that, if all our people might trade with the natives,
according to their own caprice, perpetual quarrels would ensue, I ordered that particular persons
should manage the traffic both on board and on shore, prohibiting all others to interfere.
Before mid-day, Mr King's boat returned with seven hogs, some fowls, a quantity of fruit and
roots for ourselves, and some grass for the cattle. His party was very civilly treated at Komango.
The inhabitants did not seem to be numerous; and their huts, which stood close to each other,
within a plantain wall, were but indifferent. Not far from them was a pretty large pond of
fresh water, tolerably good; but there was not any appearance of a stream. With Mr King, came
on board the chief of the island, named Touboulangee; and another, whose name was Taipa. They
brought with them a hog, as a present to me, and promised more the next day.

As soon as the boats were aboard, I stood for Annamooka; and the wind being scant, I intended
to go between Annamooka-ette,[158] and the breakers to the S.E. of it. But, on drawing near,
we met with very irregular soundings, varying, every cast, ten or twelve fathoms. This obliged
me to give up the design, and to go to the southward of all; which carried us to leeward, and
made it necessary to spend the night under sail. It was very dark; and we had the wind, from
every direction, accompanied with heavy showers of rain. So that, at day-light the next morning,
we found ourselves much farther off than we had been the evening before; and the little wind
that now blew, was right in our teeth.

[Footnote 158: That is, Little Annamooka.]

We continued to ply, all day, to very little purpose; and, in the evening, anchored in thirty-nine
fathoms water; the bottom coral rocks, and broken shells; the west point of Annamooka bearing
E.N.E., four miles distant. Touboulangee and Taipa kept their promise, and brought off to me
some hogs. Several others were also procured by bartering, from different canoes that followed
us; and as much fruit as we could well manage. It was remarkable, that, during the whole day,
our visitors from the islands would hardly part with any of their commodities to any body but
me. Captain Clerke did not get above one or two hogs.

At four o'clock next morning, I ordered a boat to be hoisted out, and sent the master to sound
the S.W. side of Annamooka; where there appeared to be a harbour, formed by the island on the
N.E., and by small islets, and shoals, to the S.W. and S.E. In the mean time, the ships were
got under sail, and wrought up to the island. When the master returned, he reported, that he
had sounded between Great and Little Annamooka, where he found ten and twelve fathoms depth
of water, the bottom coral sand; that the place was very well sheltered from all winds; but
that there was no fresh water to be found, except at some distance inland; and that, even there,
little of it was to be got, and that little not good. For this reason only, and it was a very
sufficient one, I determined to anchor on the north side of the island, where, during my last
voyage, I had found a place fit both for watering and landing.

It was not above a league distant; and yet we did not reach it till five o'clock in the afternoon,
being considerably retarded by the great number of canoes that continually crowded round the
ships, bringing to us abundant supplies of the produce of their island. Amongst these canoes
there were some double ones, with a large sail, that carried between forty and fifty men each.
These sailed round us, apparently, with the same ease as if we had been at anchor. There were
several women in the canoes, who were, perhaps, incited by curiosity to visit us; though, at
the same time, they bartered as eagerly as the men, and used the paddle with equal labour and
dexterity; I came to an anchor in eighteen fathoms water, the bottom coarse coral sand; the
island extending from E. to S.W.; and the W. point of the westernmost cove S.E., about three
quarters of a mile distant. Thus I resumed the very same station which I had occupied when
I visited Annamooka three years before; and, probably, almost in the same place where Tasman,
the first discoverer of this, and some of the neighbouring islands, anchored in 1643.

The following day, while preparations were making for watering, I went ashore, in the forenoon,
accompanied by Captain Clerke, and some of the officers, to fix on a place where the observatories
might be set up, and a guard be stationed; the natives having readily given us leave. They
also accommodated us with a boat-house, to serve as a tent, and shewed us every other mark
of civility. Toobou, the chief of the island, conducted me and Omai to his house. We found
it situated on a pleasant spot, in the centre of his plantation. A fine grass-plot surrounded
it, which, he gave us to understand, was for the purpose of cleaning their feet, before they
went within doors. I had not, before, observed such an instance of attention to cleanliness
at any of the places I had visited in this ocean; but, afterward, found that it was very common
at the Friendly Islands. The floor of Toobou's house was covered with mats; and no carpet,
in the most elegant English drawing-room, could be kept neater. While we were on shore, we
procured a few hogs, and some fruit, by bartering; and, before we got on board again, the ships
were crowded with the natives. Few of them coming empty-handed, every necessary refreshment
was now in the greatest plenty.

I landed again in the afternoon, with a party of marines; and, at the same time, the horses,
and such of the cattle as were in a weakly state, were sent on shore. Every thing being settled
to my satisfaction, I returned to the ship at sunset, leaving the command upon the island to
Mr King. Taipa, who was now become our fast friend, and who seemed to be the only active person
about us, in order to be near our party in the night, as well as the day, had a house brought,
on men's shoulders, a full quarter of a mile, and placed close to the shed which our party
occupied.

Next day, our various operations on shore began. Some were employed in making hay for the cattle;
others in filling our water-casks at the neighbouring stagnant pool; and a third party in cutting
wood. The greatest plenty of this last article being abreast of the ships, and in a situation
the most convenient for getting it on board, it was natural to make choice of this. But the
trees here, which our people erroneously supposed to be manchineel, but were a species of pepper,
called faitanoo by the natives, yielded a juice of a milky colour, of so corrosive a nature,
that it raised blisters on the skin, and injured the eyes of our workmen. They were, therefore,
obliged to desist at this place, and remove to the cove, in which our guard was stationed,
and where we embarked our water. Other wood, more suitable to our purposes, was there furnished
to us by the natives. These were not the only employments we were engaged in, for Messrs King
and Bayly began, this day, to observe equal altitudes of the sun, in order to get the rate
of the timekeepers. In the evening, before the natives retired from our post, Taipa harangued
them for some time. We could only guess at the subject; and judged, that he was instructing
them how to behave toward us, and encouraging them to bring the produce of the island to market.
We experienced the good effects of his eloquence, in the plentiful supply of provisions which,
next day, we received.

Nothing worth notice happened on the 4th and 5th, except that, on the former of these days,
the Discovery lost her small bower-anchor, the cable being cut in two by the rocks. This misfortune
made it necessary to examine the cables of the Resolution, which were found to be unhurt.

On the 6th, we were visited by a great chief from Tongataboo, whose name was Feenou, and whom
Taipa was pleased to introduce to us as King of all the Friendly Isles. I was now told, that,
on my arrival, a canoe had been dispatched to Tongataboo with the news; in consequence of which,
this chief immediately passed over to Annamooka. The officer on shore informed me, that when
he first arrived, all the natives were ordered out to meet him, and paid their obeisance by
bowing their heads as low as his feet, the soles of which they also touched with each hand,
first with the palm, and then with the back part. There could be little room to suspect that
a person, received with so much respect, could be any thing less than the king.

In the afternoon, I went to pay this great man a visit, having first received a present of
two fish from him, brought on board by one of his servants. As soon as I landed, he came up
to me. He appeared to be about thirty years of age, tall, but thin, and had more of the European
features, than any I had yet seen here. When the first salutation was over, I asked if he was
the king. For, notwithstanding what I had been told, finding he was not the man whom I remembered
to have seen under that character during my former voyage, I began to entertain doubts. Taipa
officially answered for him, and enumerated no less than one hundred and fifty-three islands,
of which, he said, Feenou was the sovereign. After a short stay, our new visitor, and five,
or six of his attendants, accompanied me on board. I gave suitable presents to them all, and
entertained them in such a manner, as I thought would be most agreeable.

In the evening, I attended them on shore in my boat, into which the chief ordered three hogs
to be put, as a return for the presents he had received from me. I was now informed of an accident
which had just happened, the relation of which will convey some idea of the extent of the authority
exercised here over the common people. While Feenou was on board my ship, an inferior chief,
for what reason our people on shore did not know, ordered all the natives to retire from the
post we occupied. Some of them having ventured to return, he took up a large stick, and beat
them most unmercifully. He struck one man on the side of the face, with so much violence, that
the blood gushed out of his mouth and nostrils; and, after lying some time motionless, he was,
at last, removed from the place, in convulsions. The person who had inflicted the blow, being
told that he had killed the man, only laughed at it; and, it was evident, that he was not in
the least sorry for what had happened. We heard, afterward, that the poor sufferer recovered.

The Discovery having found again her small bower anchor, shifted her birth on the 7th; but
not before her best bower cable had shared the fate of the other. This day I had the company
of Feenou at dinner; and also the next day, when he was attended by Taipa, Toubou, and some
other chiefs. It was remarkable, that none but Taipa was allowed to sit at table with him,
or even to eat in his presence. I own that I considered Feenou as a very convenient guest,
on account of this etiquette. For, before his arrival, I had, generally, a larger company than
I could well find room for, and my table overflowed with crowds of both sexes. For it is not
the custom at the Friendly Islands, as it is at Otaheite, to deny to their females the privilege
of eating in company with the men.

The first day of our arrival at Annamooka, one of the natives had stolen, out of the ship,
a large junk axe. I now applied to Feenou to exert his authority to get it restored to me;
and so implicitly was he obeyed, that it was brought on board while we were at dinner. These
people gave us very frequent opportunities of remarking what expert thieves they were. Even
some of their chiefs did not think this profession beneath them. On the 9th, one of them was
detected carrying out of the ship, concealed under his clothes, the bolt belonging to the spun-yarn
winch; for which I sentenced him to receive a dozen lashes, and kept him confined till he paid
a hog for his liberty. After this, we were not troubled with thieves of rank. Their servants,
or slaves, however, were still employed in this dirty work; and upon them a flogging seemed
to make no greater impression, than it would have done upon the main-mast. When any of them
happened to be caught in the act, their masters, far from interceding for them, would often
advise us to kill them. As this was a punishment we did not choose to inflict, they generally
escaped without any punishment at all; for they appeared to us to be equally insensible of
the shame and of the pain of corporal chastisement. Captain Clerke, at last, hit upon a mode
of treatment, which, we thought, had some effect. He put them under the hands of the barber,
and completely shaved their heads; thus pointing them out as objects of ridicule to their countrymen,
and enabling our people to deprive them of future opportunities for a repetition of their rogueries,
by keeping them at a distance.

Feenou was so fond of associating with us, that he dined on board every day; though, sometimes,
he did not partake of our fare. On the 10th, some of his servants brought a mess, which had
been dressed for him on shore. It consisted of fish, soup, and yams. Instead of common water
to make the soup, cocoa-nut liquor had been made use of, in which the fish had been boiled
or stewed; probably in a wooden vessel, with hot stones; but it was carried on board in a plantain
leaf. I tasted of the mess, and found it so good, that I, afterward, had some fish dressed
in the same way. Though my cook succeeded tolerably well, he could produce nothing equal to
the dish he imitated.

Finding that we had quite exhausted the island of almost every article of food that it afforded,
I employed the 11th in moving off, from the shore, the horses, observatories, and other things
that we had landed, as also the party of marines who had mounted guard at our station, intending
to sail, as soon as the Discovery should have recovered her best bow anchor. Feenou, understanding
that I meant to proceed directly to Tongataboo, importuned me strongly to alter this plan,
to which he expressed as much aversion, as if he had some particular interest to promote by
diverting me from it. In preference to it, he warmly recommended an island, or rather a group
of islands, called Hepaee, lying to the N.E. There, he assured us, we could be supplied plentifully
with every refreshment, in the easiest manner; and, to add weight to his advice, he engaged
to attend us thither in person. He carried his point with me; and Hepaee was made choice of
for our next station. As it had never been visited by any European ships, the examination of
it became an object with me.

The 12th and the 13th were spent in attempting the recovery of Captain Clerke's anchor, which,
after much trouble, was happily accomplished; and on the 14th, in the morning, we got under
sail, and left Annamooka.

This island is somewhat higher than the other small isles that surround it; but, still, it
cannot be admitted to the rank of those of a moderate height, such as Mangeea and Wateeoo.
The shore, at that part where our ships lay, is composed of a steep, rugged, coral rock, nine
or ten feet high, except where there are two sandy beaches, which have a reef of the same sort
of rock extending cross their entrance to the shore, and defending them from the sea. The salt-water
lake that is in the centre of the island, is about a mile and a half broad; and round it the
land rises like a bank, with a gradual ascent. But we could not trace its having any communication
with the sea. And yet, the land that runs across to it, from the largest sandy beach, being
flat and low, and the soil sandy, it is most likely that it may have, formerly, communicated
that way. The soil on the rising parts of the island, and especially toward the sea, is either
of a reddish clayey disposition, or a black, loose mould; but there is, no where, any stream
of fresh water.

The island is very well cultivated, except in a few places; and there are some others, which,
though they appear to lie waste, are only left to recover the strength exhausted by constant
culture; for we frequently saw the natives at work upon these spots, to plant them again. The
plantations consist chiefly of yams and plantains. Many of them are very extensive, and often
inclosed with neat fences of reed, disposed obliquely across each other, about six feet high.
Within these we often saw other fences of less compass, surrounding the houses of the principal
people. The breadfruit, and cocoa-nut trees, are interspersed with little order, but chiefly
near the habitations of the natives; and the other parts of the island, especially toward the
sea, and about the sides of the lake, are covered with trees and bushes of a most luxuriant
growth; the last place having a great many mangroves, and the first a vast number of the faitanoo
trees already mentioned. There seem to be no rocks or stones, of any kind, about the island,
that are not coral, except in one place, to the right of the sandy beach, where there is a
rock twenty or thirty feet high, of a calcareous stone, of a yellowish colour, and a very close
texture. But even about that place, which is the highest part of the land, are large pieces
of the same coral rock that composes the shore.

Besides walking frequently up into the country, which we were permitted to do without interruption,
we sometimes amused ourselves in shooting wild-ducks, not unlike the widgeon, which are very
numerous upon the salt lake, and the pool where we got our water. In these excursions, we found
the inhabitants had often deserted their houses to come down to the trading place, without
entertaining any suspicion, that strangers, rambling about, would take away, or destroy, any
thing that belonged to them. But though, from this circumstance, it might be supposed that
the greater part of the natives were sometimes collected at the beach, it was impossible to
form any accurate computation of their number; as the continual resort of visitors from other
islands, mixing with them, might easily mislead one. However, as there was never, to appearance,
above a thousand persons collected at one time, it would, perhaps, be sufficient to allow double
that number for the whole island.

To the N. and N.E. of Annamooka, and in the direct track to Hepaee, whither we were now bound,
the sea is sprinkled with a great number of small isles. Amidst the shoals and rocks adjoining
to this group, I could not be assured that there was a free or safe passage for such large
ships as ours, though the natives sailed through the intervals in their canoes. For this substantial
reason, when we weighed anchor from Annamooka, I thought it necessary to go to the westward
of the above islands, and steered N.N.W., toward Kao[159] and Toofoa, the two most westerly
islands in sight, and remarkable for their great height. Feenou, and his attendants, remained
on board the Resolution till near noon, when he went into the large sailing canoe, which had
brought him from Tongataboo, and stood in amongst the cluster of islands above mentioned, of
which we were now almost abreast; and a tide or current from the westward had set us, since
our sailing in the morning, much over toward them.

[Footnote 159: As a proof of the great difficulty of knowing accurately the exact names of
the South Sea Islands, as procured from the natives, I observe that what Captain Cook calls
Aghao, Mr Anderson calls Kao; and Tasman's drawing, as I find it in Mr Dalrymple's Collection
of Voyages, gives the name of Kayhay to the same island. Tasman's and Captain Cook's Amattafoa,
is, with Mr Anderson, Tofoa. Captain Cook's Komango, is Tasman's Amango. There is scarcely
an instance, in which such variations are not observable. Mr Anderson's great attention to
matters of this sort being, as we learn from Captain King, well known to every body on board,
and admitted always by Captain Cook himself, his mode of spelling has been adopted.--D.]

They lie scattered, at unequal distances, and are, in general, nearly as high as Annamooka;
but only from two or three miles, to half a mile in length, and some of them scarcely so much.
They have either steep rocky shores like Annamooka, or reddish cliffs; but some have sandy
beaches extending almost their whole length. Most of them are entirely clothed with trees,
amongst which are many cocoa palms, and each forms a prospect like a beautiful garden placed
in the sea. To heighten this, the serene weather we now had contributed very much; and the
whole might supply the imagination with an idea of some fairy land realized. It should seem,
that some of them, at least, may have been formed, as we supposed Palmerston's Island to have
been; for there is one, which, as yet, is entirely sand, and another, on which there is only
one bush, or tree.

At four o'clock in the afternoon, being the length of Kotoo, the westernmost of the above cluster
of small islands, we steered to the north, leaving Toofoa and Kao on our larboard, keeping
along the west side of a reef of rocks, which lie to the westward of Kotoo, till we came to
their northern extremity, round which we hauled in for the island. It was our intention to
have anchored for the night; but it came upon us before we could find a place in less than
fifty-five fathoms water; and rather than come-to in this depth, I chose to spend the night
under sail.

We had, in the afternoon, been within two leagues of Toofoa, the smoke of which we saw several
times in the day. The Friendly Islanders have some superstitious notions about the volcano
upon it, which they call Kollofeea, and say it is an Otooa, or divinity. According to their
account, it sometimes throws up very large stones; and they compare the crater to the size
of a small islet, which has never ceased smoking in their memory; nor have they any tradition
that it ever did. We sometimes saw the smoke rising from the centre of the island, while we
were at Annamooka, though at the distance of at least ten leagues. Toofoa, we were told, is
but thinly inhabited, but the water upon it is good.

At day-break the next morning, being then not far from Kao, which is a vast rock of a conic
figure, we steered to the east, for the passage between the islands Footooha and Hafaiva, with
a gentle breeze at S.E. About ten o'clock, Feenou came on board, and remained with us all day.
He brought with him two hogs, and a quantity of fruit; and, in the course of the day, several
canoes, from the different islands round us, came to barter quantities of the latter article,
which was very acceptable, as our stock was nearly expended. At noon, our latitude was 19°
49' 45" S., and we had made seven miles of longitude from Annamooka; Toofoa bore N., 88° W.;
Kao N., 71° W.; Footooha N., 89° W.; and Hafaiva S. 12° W.

After passing Footooha, we met with a reef of rocks; and, as there was but little wind, it
cost us some trouble to keep clear of them. This reef lies between Footooha and Neeneeva, which
is a small low isle, in the direction of E.N.E. from Footooha, at the distance of seven or
eight miles. Footooha is a small island, of middling height, and bounded all round by a steep
rock. It lies S. 67° E., distant six leagues from Kao, and three leagues from Kotoo, in the
direction of N. 33° E. Being past the reef of rocks just mentioned, we hauled up for Neeneeva,
in hopes of finding anchorage; but were again disappointed, and obliged to spend the night,
making short boards. For, although we had land in every direction, the sea was unfathomable.

In the course of this night, we could plainly see flames issuing from the volcano upon Toofoa,
though to no great height.

At day-break in the morning of the 16th, with a gentle breeze at S.E., we steered N.E. for
Hepaee, which was now in sight; and we could judge it to be low land, from the trees only appearing
above the water. About nine o'clock we could see it plainly forming three islands, nearly of
an equal size; and soon after, a fourth to the southward of these, as large as the others.
Each seemed to be about six or seven miles long, and of a similar height and appearance. The
northernmost of them is called Haanno, the next Foa, the third Lefooga, and the southernmost
Hoolaiva; but all four are included, by the natives, under the general name Hepaee.

The wind scanting upon us, we could not fetch the land, so that we were forced to ply to windward.
In doing this, we once passed over some coral rocks, on which we had only six fathoms water;
but the moment we were over them, found no ground with eighty-fathoms of line. At this time,
the isles of Hepaee bore, from N., 50° E., to S., 9 W. We got up with the northernmost of these
isles by sunset; and there found ourselves in the very same distress, for want of anchorage,
that we had experienced the two preceding evenings; so that we had another night to spend under
sail, with land and breakers in every direction. Toward the evening, Feenou, who had been on
board all day, went forward to Hepaee, and took Omai in the canoe with him. He did not forget
our disagreeable situation; and kept up a good fire, all night, by way of a land-mark.

As soon as the day-light returned, being then close in with Foa, we saw it was joined to Haanno,
by a reef running even with the surface of the sea, from the one island to the other. I now
dispatched a boat to look for anchorage. A proper place was soon found; and we came-to, abreast
of a reef, being that which joins Lefooga to Foa (in the same manner that Foa is joined to
Haanno), having twenty-four fathoms depth of water; the bottom coral sand. In this station,
the northern point of Hepaee, or the north end of Haanno, bore N., 16° E. The southern point
of Hepaee, or the south end of Hoolaiva, S., 29° W.; and the north end of Lefooga, S., 65°
E. Two ledges of rocks lay without us; the one bearing S., 50° W.; and the other W. by N. 1/2
N., distant two or three miles. We lay before a creek in the reef, which made it convenient
landing at all times; and we were not above three quarters of a mile from the shore.

By the time we had anchored, (May 17) the ships were filled with the natives, and surrounded
by a multitude of canoes, filled also with them. They brought from the shore, hogs, fowls,
fruit, and roots, which they exchanged for hatchets, knives, nails, beads, and cloth. Feenou
and Omai having come on board, after it was light, in order to introduce me to the people of
the island, I soon accompanied them on shore, for that purpose, landing at the north part of
Lefooga, a little to the right of the ship's station.

The chief conducted me to a house, or rather a hut, situated close to the sea-beach, which
I had seen brought thither, but a few minutes before, for our reception. In this, Feenou, Omai,
and myself, were seated. The other chiefs, and the multitude, composed a circle, on the outside,
fronting us; and they also sat down. I was then asked, How long I intended to stay? On my saying,
Five days, Taipa was ordered to come and sit by me, and proclaim this to the people. He then
harangued them, in a speech mostly dictated by Feenou. The purport of it, as I learnt from
Omai, was, that they were all, both old and young, to look upon me as a friend, who intended
to remain with them a few days; that, during my stay, they must not steal any thing, nor molest
me any other way; and that it was expected, they should bring hogs, fowls, fruit, &c. to the
ships, where they would receive, in exchange for them, such and such things, which he enumerated.
Soon after Taipa had finished this address to the assembly, Feenou left us. Taipa then took
occasion to signify to me, that it was necessary I should make a present to the chief of the
island, whose name was Earoupa. I was not unprepared for this, and gave him such articles as
far exceeded his expectation. My liberality to him brought upon me demands, of the same kind,
from two chiefs of other isles who were present; and from Taipa himself. When Feenou returned,
which was immediately after I had made the last of these presents, he pretended to be angry
with Taipa for suffering me to give away so much; but I looked upon this as a mere finesse;
being confident that he acted in concert with the others. He now took his seat again, and ordered
Earoupa to sit by him, and to harangue the people as Taipa had done, and to the same purpose;
dictating, as before, the heads of the speech.

These ceremonies being performed, the chief, at my request, conducted me to three stagnant
pools of fresh water, as he was pleased to call it: And, indeed, in one of these the water
was tolerable, and the situation not inconvenient for filling our casks. After viewing the
watering-place, we returned to our former station, where I found a baked hog, and some yams,
smoking hot, ready to be carried on board for my dinner. I invited Feenou, and his friends,
to partake of it; and we embarked for the ship; but none but himself sat down with us at the
table. After dinner I conducted them on shore; and, before I returned on board, the chief gave
me a fine large turtle, and a quantity of yams. Our supply of provisions was copious; for,
in the course of the day, we got, by barter, alongside the ship, about twenty small hogs, beside
fruit and roots. I was told, that on my first landing in the morning, a man came off to the
ships, and ordered every one of the natives to go on shore. Probably this was done with a view
to have the whole body of inhabitants present at the ceremony of my reception; for when that
was over, multitudes of them returned again to the ships.

Next morning early, Feenou, and Omai, who scarcely ever quitted the chief, and now slept on
shore, came on board. The object of the visit was to require my presence upon the island. After
some time, I accompanied them; and, upon landing, was conducted to the same place where I had
been seated the day before; and where I saw a large concourse of people already assembled.
I guessed that something more than ordinary was in agitation; but could not tell what, nor
could Omai inform me.

I had not been long seated, before near a hundred of the natives appeared in sight, and advanced,
laden with yams, bread-fruit, plantains, cocoa-nuts, and sugar-canes. They deposited their
burdens, in two heaps, or piles, upon our left, being the side they came from. Soon after,
arrived a number of others from the right, bearing the same kind of articles, which were collected
into two piles upon that side. To these were tied two pigs, and six fowls; and to those upon
the left, six pigs, and two turtles. Earoupa seated himself before the several articles upon
the left; and another chief before those upon the right; they being, as I judged, the two chiefs
who had collected them, by order of Feenou, who seemed to be as implicitly obeyed here, as
he had been at Annamooka; and, in consequence of his commanding superiority over the chiefs
of Hepaee, had laid this tax upon them for the present occasion.

As soon as this munificent collection of provisions was laid down in order, and disposed to
the best advantage, the bearers of it joined the multitude, who formed a large circle round
the whole. Presently after, a number of men entered this circle, or area, before us, armed
with clubs, made of the green branches of the cocoa-nut tree. These paraded about for a few
minutes, and then retired; the one half to one side, and the other half to the other side;
seating themselves before the spectators. Soon after, they successively entered the lists,
and entertained us with single combats. One champion, rising up and stepping forward from one
side, challenged those of the other side, by expressive gestures, more than by words, to send
one of their body to oppose him. If the challenge was accepted, which was generally the case,
the two combatants put themselves in proper attitudes, and then began the engagement, which
continued till one or other owned himself conquered, or till their weapons were broken. As
soon as each combat was over, the victor squatted himself down facing the chief, then rose
up, and retired. At the same time, some old men, who seemed to sit as judges, gave their plaudit
in a few words; and the multitude, especially those on the side to which the victor belonged,
celebrated the glory he had acquired in two or three huzzas.

This entertainment was, now and then, suspended for a few minutes. During these intervals there
were both wrestling and boxing matches. The first were performed in the same manner as at Otaheite;
and the second differed very little from the method practised in England. But what struck us
with most surprise, was, to see a couple of lusty wenches step forth, and begin boxing; without
the least ceremony, and with as much art as the men. This contest, however, did not last above
half a minute, before one of them gave it up. The conquering heroine received the same applause
from the spectators which they bestowed upon the successful combatants of the other sex. We
expressed some dislike at this part of the entertainment; which, however, did not prevent two
other females from entering the lists. They seemed to be girls of spirit, and would certainly
have given each other a good drubbing, if two old women had not interposed to part them. All
these combats were exhibited in the midst of, at least, three thousand people, and were conducted
with the greatest good humour on all sides; though some of the champions, women as well as
men, received blows, which, doubtless, they must have felt for some time after.

As soon as these diversions were ended, the chief told me, that the heaps of provisions on
our right hand were a present to Omai; and that those on our left hand, being about two-thirds
of the whole quantity, were given to me. He added, that I might take them on board whenever
it was convenient; but that there would be no occasion to set any of our people as guards over
them, as I might be assured, that not a single cocoa-nut would be taken away by the natives.
So it proved; for I left every thing behind, and returned to the ship to dinner, carrying the
chief with me; and when the provisions were removed on board, in the afternoon, not a single
article was missing. There was as much as loaded four boats; and I could not but be struck
with the munificence of Feenou; for this present far exceeded any I had ever received from
any of the sovereigns of the various islands I had visited in the Pacific Ocean. I lost no
time in convincing my friend, that I was not insensible of his liberality; for, before he quitted
my ship, I bestowed upon him such of our commodities, as, I guessed, were most valuable in
his estimation. And the return I made was so much to his satisfaction, that, as soon as he
got on shore, he left me still indebted to him, by sending me a fresh present, consisting of
two large hogs, a considerable quantity of cloth, and some yams.

Feenou had expressed a desire to see the marines go through their military exercise. As I was
desirous to gratify his curiosity, I ordered them all ashore, from both ships, in the morning
of the 20th. After they had performed various evolutions, and fired several vollies, with which
the numerous body of spectators seemed well pleased, the chief entertained us, in his turn,
with an exhibition, which, as was acknowledged by us all, was performed with a dexterity and
exactness, far surpassing the specimen we had given of our military manoeuvres. It was a kind
of a dance, so entirely different from any thing I had ever seen, that, I fear, I can give
no description that will convey any tolerable idea of it to my readers. It was performed by
men; and one hundred and five persons bore their parts in it. Each of them had in his hand
an instrument neatly made, shaped somewhat like a paddle, of two feet and a half in length,
with a small handle, and a thin blade; so that they were very light. With these instruments
they made many and various flourishes, each of which was accompanied with a different attitude
of the body, or a different movement. At first, the performers ranged themselves in three lines;
and, by various evolutions, each man changed his station in such a manner, that those who had
been in the rear came into the front. Nor did they remain long in the same position; but these
changes were made by pretty quick transitions. At one time they extended themselves in one
line; they, then, formed into a semicircle; and, lastly, into two square columns. While this
last movement was executing, one of them advanced, and performed an antic dance before me;
with which the whole ended.

The musical instruments consisted of two drums, or rather two hollow logs of wood, from which
some varied notes were produced, by beating on them with two sticks. It did not, however, appear
to me, that the dancers were much assisted or directed by these sounds, but by a chorus of
vocal music, in which all the performers joined at the same time. Their song was not destitute
of pleasing melody; and all their corresponding motions were executed with so much skill, that
the numerous body of dancers seemed to act, as if they were one great machine. It was the opinion
of every one of us, that such a performance would have met with universal applause on a European
theatre; and it so far exceeded any attempt we had made to entertain them, that they seemed
to pique themselves upon the superiority they had over us. As to our musical instruments, they
held none of them in the least esteem, except the drum; and even that they did not think equal
to their own. Our French horns, in particular, seemed to be held in great contempt; for neither
here, nor at any other of the islands, would they pay the smallest attention to them.

In order to give them a more favourable opinion of English amusements, and to leave their minds
fully impressed with the deepest sense of our superior attainments, I directed some fireworks
to be got ready; and, after it was dark, played them off in the presence of Feenou, the other
chiefs, and a vast concourse of their people. Some of the preparations we found damaged; but
others of them were in excellent order, and succeeded so perfectly, as to answer the end I
had in view. Our water and sky-rockets, in particular, pleased and astonished them beyond all
conception; and the scale was now turned in our favour.

This, however, seemed only to furnish them with an additional motive to proceed to fresh exertions
of their very singular dexterity; and our fireworks were no sooner ended, than a succession
of dances, which Feenou had got ready for our entertainment, began. As[160] a prelude to them,
a band of music, or chorus of eighteen men, seated themselves before us, in the centre of the
circle, composed by the numerous spectators, the area of which was to be the scene of the exhibitions.
Four or five of this band had pieces of large bamboo, from three to five or six feet long,
each managed by one man, who held it nearly in a vertical position, the upper end open, but
the other end closed by one of the joints. With this close end, the performers kept constantly
striking the ground, though slowly, thus producing different notes, according to the different
lengths of the instruments, but all of them of the hollow or base sort; to counteract which,
a person kept striking quickly, and with two sticks, a piece of the same substance, split,
and laid along the ground, and, by that means, furnishing a tone as acute as those produced
by the others were grave. The rest of the band, as well as those who performed upon the bamboos,
sung a slow and soft air, which so tempered the harsher notes of the above instruments, that
no bye-stander, however accustomed to hear the most perfect and varied modulation of sweet
sounds, could avoid confessing the vast power, and pleasing effect, of this simple harmony.

[Footnote 160: Mr Andersen's account of the night dances being much fuller than Captain Cook's,
the reader will not be displeased that it has been adopted.--D.]

The concert having continued about a quarter of an hour, twenty women entered the circle. Most
of them had, upon their heads, garlands of the crimson flowers of the China rose, or others;
and many of them had ornamented their persons with leaves of trees, cut with a deal of nicety
about the edges. They made a circle round the chorus, turning their faces toward it, and began
by singing a soft air, to which responses were made by the chorus in the same tone; and these
were repeated alternately. All this while, the women accompanied their song with several very
graceful motions of their hands toward their faces, and in other directions at the same time,
making constantly a step forward, and then back again, with one foot, while the other was fixed.
They then turned their faces to the assembly, sung some time, and retreated slowly in a body,
to that part of the circle which was opposite the hut where the principal spectators sat. After
this, one of them advanced from each side, meeting and passing each other in the front, and
continuing their progress round, till they came to the rest. On which, two advanced from each
side, two of whom also passed each other, and returned as the former; but the other two remained,
and to these came one, from each side, by intervals, till the whole number had again formed
a circle-about the chorus.

Their manner of dancing was now changed to a quicker measure, in which they made a kind of
half turn by leaping, and clapped their hands, and snapped their fingers, repeating some words
in conjunction with the chorus. Toward the end, as the quickness of the music increased, their
gestures and attitudes were varied with wonderful vigour and dexterity; and some of their motions,
perhaps, would, with us, be reckoned rather indecent. Though this part of the performance,
most probably, was not meant to convey any wanton ideas, but merely to display the astonishing
variety of their movements.

To this grand female ballet, succeeded one performed by fifteen men. Some of them were old;
but their age seemed to have abated little of their agility or ardour for the dance. They were
disposed in a sort of circle, divided at the front, with their faces not turned out toward
the assembly, nor inward to the chorus; but one half of their circle faced forward as they
had advanced, and the other half in a contrary direction. They, sometimes, sung slowly, in
concert with the chorus; and, while thus employed, they also made several very fine motions
with their hands, but different from those made by the women, at the same time inclining the
body to either side alternately by raising one leg, which was stretched outward, and resting
on the other; the arm of the same side being also stretched fully upward. At other times they
recited sentences in a musical tone, which were answered by the chorus; and, at intervals,
increased the measure of the dance, by clapping the hands, and quickening the motions of the
feet, which, however, were never varied. At the end, the rapidity of the music, and of the
dancing, increased so much, that it was scarcely possible to distinguish the different movements;
though one might suppose the actors were now almost tired, as their performance had lasted
near half an hour.

After a considerable interval, another act, as we may call it, began. Twelve men now advanced,
who placed themselves in double rows fronting each other, but on opposite sides of the circle;
and, on one side, a man was stationed, who, as if he had been a prompter, repeated several
sentences, to which the twelve new performers, and the chorus, replied. They then sung slowly;
and afterward danced and sung more quickly, for about a quarter of an hour, after the manner
of the dancers whom they had succeeded.

Soon after they had finished, nine women exhibited themselves, and sat down fronting the hut
where the chief was. A man then rose, and struck the first of these women on the back, with
both fists joined. He proceeded, in the same manner, to the second and third; but when he came
to the fourth, whether from accident or design I cannot tell, instead of the back, he struck
her on the breast. Upon this a person rose instantly from the crowd, who brought him to the
ground with a blow on the head; and he was carried off without the least noise or disorder.
But this did not save the other five women from so odd a discipline, or perhaps necessary ceremony;
for a person succeeded him, who treated them in the same manner. Their disgrace did not end
here; for when they danced, they had the mortification to find their performance twice disapproved
of, and were obliged to repeat it. This dance did not differ much from that of the first women,
except in this one circumstance, that the present set sometimes raised the body upon one leg,
by a sort of double motion, and then upon the other alternately, in which attitude they kept
snapping their fingers; and, at the end, they repeated, with great agility, the brisk movements,
in which the former group of female dancers had shewn themselves so expert.

In a little tine, a person entered unexpectedly, and said something in a ludicrous way, about
the fireworks that had been exhibited, which extorted a burst of laughter from the multitude.
After this, we had a dance composed of the men, who attended, or had followed, Feenou. They
formed a double circle (i.e. one within another) of twenty-four each, round the chorus, and
began a gentle soothing song, with corresponding motions of the hands and head. This lasted
a considerable time, and then changed to a much quicker measure, during which they repeated
sentences, either in conjunction with the chorus, or in answer to some spoken by that band.
They then retreated to the back part of the circle, as the women had done, and again advanced,
on each side, in a triple row, till they formed a semicircle, which was done very slowly, by
inclining the body on one leg, and advancing the other a little way, as they put it down. They
accompanied this with such a soft air as they had sung at the beginning; but soon changed it
to repeat sentences in a harsher tone, at the same time quickening the dance very much, till
they finished with a general shout and clap of the hands. The same was repeated several times;
but, at last, they formed a double circle, as at the beginning, danced, and repeated very quickly,
and finally closed with several very dexterous transpositions of the two circles.

The entertainments of this memorable night concluded with a dance, in which the principal people
present exhibited. It resembled the immediately preceding one, in some respects, having the
same number of performers, who began nearly in the same way; but their ending, at each interval,
was different; for they increased their motions to a prodigious quickness, shaking their heads
from shoulder to shoulder, with such force, that a spectator, unaccustomed to the sight, would
suppose, that they ran a risk of dislocating their necks. This was attended with a smart clapping
of the hands, and a kind of savage holla! or shriek, not unlike what is sometimes practised
in the comic dances on our European theatres. They formed the triple semicircle, as the preceding
dancers had done; and a person, who advanced at the head on one side of the semicircle, began
by repeating something in a truly musical recitative, which was delivered with an air so graceful,
as might put to the blush our most applauded performers. He was answered in the same manner,
by the person at the head of the opposite party. This being repeated several times, the whole
body, on one side, joined in the responses to the whole corresponding body on the opposite
side, as the semicircle advanced to the front; and they finished, by singing and dancing as
they had begun.

These two last dances were performed with so much spirit, and so great exactness, that they
met with universal approbation. The native spectators, who, no doubt, were perfect judges whether
the several performances were properly executed, could not withhold their applauses at some
particular parts; and even a stranger, who never saw the diversion before, felt similar satisfaction,
at the same instant. For though, through the whole, the most strict concert was observed, some
of the gestures were so expressive, that it might be said, they spoke the language that accompanied
them; if we allow that there is any connection between motion and sound. At the same time,
it should be observed, that though the music of the chorus, and that of the dancers, corresponded,
constant practice in these favourite amusements of our friends, seems to have a great share
in effecting the exact time they keep in their performances. For we observed, that if any of
them happened accidentally to be interrupted, they never found the smallest difficulty in recovering
the proper place of the dance or song. And their perfect discipline was in no instance more
remarkable, than in the sudden transitions they so dexterously made from the ruder exertions,
and harsh sounds, to the softest airs, and gentlest movements.[161]

[Footnote 161: In a former note, it was observed, that the songs and dances of the Caroline
Islanders, in the North Pacific, bear a great resemblance to those of the inhabitants of Wateeoo.
The remark may be now extended to those of the Friendly Islanders, described at large in this
chapter. That the reader may judge for himself, I have selected the following particulars from
Father Cantova's account. "Pendant la nuit, au clair de la lune, ils s'assemblent, de temps
en temps, pour chanter & danser devant la maison de leur Tumole. Leurs danses se font au son
de la voix, car ils n'ont point d'instrument de musique. La beauté de la danse, consiste dans
l'exacte uniformité des mouvemens du corps. Les hommes, separés des femmes, se postent vis-à-vis
les uns des autres; après quoi, ils remuent la tête, les bras, les mains, les pieds, en cadence.
Leur tête est couverte de plumes, on de fleurs;--et l'on voit, attachées à leurs oreilles,
des feuilles de palmier tissues avec assez d'art--Les femmes, de leur coté,--se regardant les
unes les autres, commencent un chant pathétique & langoureux, accompagnant le son de leur voix
du mouvement cadencé de la tête & des bras."--Lettres Edifiantes & Curiesues, tom. xv. p. 314,
315.--D.]

The place where the dances were performed was an open space amongst the trees, just by the
sea, with lights, at small intervals, placed round the inside of the circle. The concourse
of people was pretty large, though not equal to the number assembled in the forenoon, when
the marines exercised. At that time, some of our gentlemen guessed there might be present about
five thousand persons; others thought there were more; but they who reckoned that there were
fewer, probably, came nearer the truth.

Curiosity on both sides being now sufficiently gratified by the exhibition of the various entertainments
I have described, I began to have time to look about me. Accordingly, next day (May 21) I took
a walk into the island of Lefooga, of which I was desirous to obtain some knowledge. I found
it to be, in several respects, superior to Annamooka. The plantations were both more numerous
and more extensive. In many places, indeed, toward the sea, especially on the east side, the
country is still waste, owing perhaps to the sandy soil, as it is much lower than Annamooka,
and its surrounding isles. But toward the middle of the island the soil is better; and the
marks of considerable population, and of improved cultivation, were very conspicuous. For we
met here with very large plantations, inclosed in such a manner that the fences, running parallel
to each other, form fine spacious public roads, that would appear ornamental in countries where
rural conveniences have been carried to the greatest perfection. We observed large spots covered
with the paper mulberry-trees; and the plantations, in general, were well stocked with such
roots and fruits as are the natural produce of the island. To these I made some addition, by
sowing the seeds of Indian corn, melons, pumpkins, and the like. At one place was a house,
four or five times as large as those of the common sort, with a large area of grass before
it; and I take it for granted, the people resort thither on certain public occasions. Near
the landing-place we saw a mount, two or three feet high, covered with gravel; and on it stood
four or five small huts, in which the natives told us the bodies of some of their principal
people had been interred.

The island is not above seven miles long, and in some places not above two or three broad.
The east side of it, which is exposed to the trade-wind, has a reef running to a considerable
breadth from it, on which the sea breaks with great violence. It is a continuation of this
reef that joins Lefooga to Foa, which is not above half a mile distant; and at low water the
natives can walk upon this reef, which is then partly dry from the one island to the other.
The shore itself is either a coral rock, six or seven feet high, or a sandy beach, but higher
than the west side, which in general is not more than three or four feet from the level of
the sea, with a sandy beach its whole length.

When I returned from my excursion into the country, and went on board to dinner, I found a
large sailing canoe fast to the ship's stern. In this canoe was Latooliboula, whom I had seen
at Tongataboo during my last voyage, and who was then supposed by us to be the king of that
island. He sat in the canoe with all that gravity, by which, as I have mentioned in my journal,[162]
he was so remarkably distinguished at that time; nor could I, by any entreaties, prevail upon
him now to come into the ship. Many of the islanders were present, and they all called him
Areekee, which signifies king. I had never heard any one of them give this title to Feenou,
however extensive his authority over them, both here and at Annamooka, had appeared to be,
which had all along inclined me to suspect that he was not the king, though his friend Taipa
had taken pains to make me believe he was. Latooliboula remained under the stern till the evening,
when he retired in his canoe to one of the islands. Feenou was on board my ship at the same
time; but neither of these great men took the least notice of the other.

[Footnote 162: The name of this extraordinary personage is there said to be Kohagee too Fallangou,
which cannot, by the most skilful etymologist, be tortured into the least most distant resemblance
of Latooliboula. It is remarkable that Captain Cook should not take any notice of his having
called the same person by two names so very different. Perhaps we may account for this, by
supposing one to be the name of the person, and the other the description of his title or rank.
This supposition seems well founded, when we consider that Latoo, in the language of these
people, is sometimes used to signify a great chief; and Dr Forster, in his Observations, p.
378, 379, and elsewhere, speaks of the sovereign of Tongataboo under the title of their Latoo.
This very person is called by Dr Forster, p. 370, Latoo-Nipooroo, which furnishes a very striking
instance of the variations of our people in writing down the same word as pronounced by the
natives. However, we can easily trace the affinity between Nipooroo and Liboula, as the changes
of the consonants are such as are perpetually made upon hearing a word pronounced to which
our ears have not been accustomed. Mr Anderson here agrees with Captain Cook in writing Latooliboula.--D.]

Nothing material happened the next day, except that some of the natives stole a tarpaulin,
and other things, from off the deck. They were soon missed, and the thieves pursued, but a
little too late. I applied, therefore, to Feenou, who, if he was not king, was at least vested
with the highest authority here to exert it, in order to have my things restored. He referred
me to Earoupa, who put me off from time to time, and at last nothing was done.

In the morning of the 23d, as we were going to unmoor, in order to leave the island, Feenou,
and his prime minister Taipa, came alongside in a sailing canoe, and informed me that they
were setting out for Vavaoo, an island which they said lies about two days sail to the northward
of Hepaee. The object of their voyage, they would have me believe, was to get for me an additional
supply of hogs, and some red-feathered caps for Omai to carry to Otaheite, where they are in
high esteem. Feenou assured me that he should be back in four or five days, and desired me
not to sail till his return, when he promised he would accompany me to Tongataboo. I thought
this a good opportunity to get some knowledge of Vavaoo, and proposed to him to go thither
with the ships. But he seemed not to approve of the plan; and, by way of diverting me from
it, told me that there was neither harbour nor anchorage about it. I therefore consented to
wait, in my present station, for his return, and he immediately set out.

The next day, our attention was for some time taken up with a report, industriously spread
about by some of the natives, that a ship like ours had arrived at Annamooka since we left
it, and was now at anchor there. The propagators of the report were pleased to add, that Toobou,
the chief of that island, was hastening thither to receive these new comers; and as we knew
that he had actually left us, we were the more ready to believe there might be some foundation
for the story of this unexpected arrival. However, to gain some farther information, I went
on shore with Omai, in quest of the man who, it was said, had brought the first account of
this event from Annamooka. We found him at the house of Earoupa, where Omai put such questions
to him as I thought necessary; and the answers he gave were so clear and satisfactory, that
I had not a doubt remaining. But, just about this time, a chief of some note, whom we well
knew, arrived from Annamooka, and declared that no ship was at that island, nor had been, since
our leaving it. The propagator of the report, finding himself detected in a falsehood, instantly
withdrew, and we saw no more of him. What end the invention of this tale could answer was not
easy to conjecture, unless we suppose it to have been artfully contrived, to get us removed
from the one island to the other.

In my walk on the 25th, I happened to step into a house, where a woman was dressing the eyes
of a young child, who seemed blind, the eyes being much inflamed, and a thin film spread over
them. The instruments she used were two slender wooden probes, with which she had brushed the
eyes so as to make them bleed. It seems worth mentioning, that the natives of these islands
should attempt an operation of this sort, though I entered the house too late to describe exactly
how this female oculist employed the wretched tools she had to work with.

I was fortunate enough to see a different operation going on in the same house, of which I
can give a tolerable account. I found there another woman shaving a child's head, with a shark's
tooth, stuck into the end of a piece of stick. I observed that she first wetted the hair with
a rag dipped in water, applying her instrument to that part which she had previously soaked.
The operation seemed to give no pain to the child, although the hair was taken off as close
as if one of our razors had been employed. Encouraged by what I now saw, I soon after tried
one of these singular instruments upon myself, and found it to be an excellent succedaneum.
However, the men of these islands have recourse to another contrivance when they shave their
beards. The operation is performed with two shells, one of which they place under a small part
of the beard, and with the other, applied above, they scrape that part off. In this manner
they are able to shave very close. The process is, indeed, rather tedious, but not painful;
and there are men amongst them who seemed to profess this trade. It was as common, while we
were here, to see our sailors go ashore to have their beards scraped off, after the fashion
of Hepaee, as it was to see their chiefs come on board to be shaved by our barbers.

Finding that little or nothing of the produce of the island was now brought to the ships, I
resolved to change our station, and to wait Feenou's return from Vavaoo, in some other convenient
anchoring-place, where refreshments might still be met with. Accordingly, in the forenoon of
the 26th, we got under sail, and stood to the southward along the reef of the island, having
fourteen and thirteen, fathoms water, with a sandy bottom. However, we met with several detached
shoals. Some of them were discovered by breakers, some by the water upon them appearing discoloured,
and others by the lead. At half past two in the afternoon having already passed several of
these shoals, and seeing more of them before us, I hauled into a bay that lies between the
S. end of Lefooga and the N. end of Hoolaiva, and there anchored in seventeen fathoms water,
the bottom a coral sand; the point of Lefooga bearing S.E. by E. a mile and a half distant.
The Discovery did not get to an anchor till sunset. She had touched upon one of the shoals,
but backed off again without receiving any damage.

As soon as we had anchored, I sent Mr Bligh to sound the bay where we were now stationed; and
myself, accompanied by Mr Gore, landed on the southern part of Lefooga, to examine the country,
and to look for fresh water. Not that we now wanted a supply of this article, having filled
all the casks at our late station; but I had been told that this part of the island could afford
us some preferable to any we had got at the former watering-place. This will not be the only
time I shall have occasion to remark that these people do not know what good water is. We were
conducted to two wells, but the water in both of them proved to be execrable, and the natives,
our guides, assured us that they had none better.

Near the S. end of the island, and on the W. side, we met with an artificial mount. From the
size of some trees that were growing upon it, and from other appearances, I guessed that it
had been raised in remote times. I judged it to be about forty feet high, and the diameter
of its summit measured fifty feet. At the bottom of this mount stood a stone, which must have
been hewn out of coral rock. It was four feet broad, two and a half thick, and fourteen high;
and we were told by the natives present that not above half its length appeared above ground.
They called it Tangata Arekee,[163] and said that it had been set up, and the mount raised,
by some of their forefathers, in memory of one of their kings, but how long since they could
not tell.

[Footnote 163: Tangata, in their language, is man; Arekee, king.]

Night coming on, Mr Gore and I returned on board; and, at the same time, Mr Bligh got back
from sounding the bay, in which he found from fourteen to twenty fathoms water, the bottom
for the most part sand, but not without some coral rocks. The place where we now anchored is
much better sheltered than that which we had lately come from; but between the two is another
anchoring station, much better than either. Lefooga and Hoolaiva are divided from each other
by a reef of coral rocks, which is dry at low water; so that one may walk at that time from
the one to the other, without wetting a foot. Some of our gentlemen, who landed in the latter
island, did not find the least mark of cultivation, or habitation, upon it, except a single
hut, the residence of a man employed to catch fish and turtle. It is rather extraordinary that
it should be in this deserted state, communicating so immediately with Lefooga, which is so
perfectly cultivated; for though the soil is quite sandy, all the trees and plants found in
a natural state on the neighbouring islands, are produced here with the greatest vigour. The
E. side of it has a reef like Lefooga, and the W. side has a bending at the N. part, where
there seems to be good anchorage. Uninhabited as Hoolaiva is, an artificial mount, like that
at the adjoining island, has been raised upon it, as high as some of the surrounding trees.

At day-break, next morning, I made the signal to weigh; and as I intended to attempt a passage
to Annamooka, in my way to Tongataboo, by the S.W. amongst the intervening islands, I sent
the master in a boat to sound before the ships. But before we could get under sail the wind
became unsettled, which made it unsafe to attempt a passage this way till we were better acquainted
with it. I therefore lay fast, and made the signal for the master to return; and afterward
sent him and the master of the Discovery, each in a boat, with instructions to examine the
channels, as far as they could, allowing themselves time to get back to the ships before the
close of the day.

About noon a large sailing canoe came under our stern, in which was a person named Futtafaihe,
or Poulaho, or both, who, as the natives then on board told us, was King of Tongataboo, and
of all the neighbouring islands that we had seen or heard of. It was a matter of surprise to
me to have a stranger introduced under this character, which I had so much reason to believe
really belonged to another. But they persisted in their account of the supreme dignity of this
new visitor; and now, for the first time, they owned to me, that Feenou was not the king, but
only a subordinate chief, though of great power, as he was often sent from Tongataboo to the
other islands on warlike expeditions, or to decide differences. It being my interest, as well
as my inclination, to pay court to all the great men, without making enquiry into the validity
of their assumed titles, I invited Poulaho on board, as I understood he was very desirous to
come. He could not be an unwelcome guest, for he brought with him, as a present to me, two
good fat hogs, though not so fat as himself, if weight of body could give weight in rank and
power, he was certainly the most eminent man in that respect we had seen; for, though not very
tall, he was very unwieldy, and almost shapeless with corpulence. He seemed to be about forty
years of age, had straight hair, and his features differed a good deal from those of the bulk
of his people. I found him to be a sedate, sensible man. He viewed the ship, and the several
new objects, with uncommon attention, and asked many pertinent questions, one of which was,
What could induce us to visit these islands? After he had satisfied his curiosity in looking
at the cattle, and other novelties which he met with upon deck, I desired him to walk down
into the cabin. To this some of his attendants objected, saying, that if he were to accept
of that invitation, it must happen, that people would walk over his head, which could not be
permitted. I directed my interpreter Omai, to tell them that I would obviate their objection,
by giving orders that no one should presume to walk upon that part of the deck which was over
the cabin. Whether this expedient would have satisfied them was far from appearing, but the
chief himself, less scrupulous in this respect than his attendants, waved all ceremony, and
walked down without any stipulation. He now appeared to be as solicitous himself, as his people
were, to convince us that he was king, and not Feenou, who had passed with us as such; for
he soon perceived that we had some doubts about it, which doubts Omai was not very desirous
of removing. The closest connection had been formed between him and Feenou, in testimony of
which they had exchanged names; and therefore he was not a little chagrined, that another person
now put in his claim to the honours which his friend had hitherto enjoyed.

Poulaho sat down with us to dinner, but he ate little, and drank less. When we rose from the
table, he desired me to accompany him ashore. Omai was asked to be of the party, but he was
too faithfully attached to Feenou to shew any attention to his competitor, and therefore excused
himself. I attended the chief in my own boat, having first made presents to him of such articles
as I could observe he valued much, and were even beyond his expectation to receive. I was not
disappointed in my view of thus securing his friendship, for the moment the boat reached the
beach, and before he quitted her, he ordered two more hogs to be brought, and delivered to
my people to be conveyed on board. He was then carried out of the boat by some of his own people,
upon a board resembling a hand-barrow, and went and seated himself in a small house near the
shore, which seemed to have been erected there for his accommodation. He placed me at his side,
and his attendants, who were not numerous, seated themselves in a semicircle before us, on
the outside of the house. Behind the chief, or rather on one side, sat an old woman, with a
sort of fan in her hand, whose office it was to prevent his being pestered with the flies.

The several articles which his people had got, by trading on board the ships, were now displayed
before him. He looked over them all with attention, enquired what they had given in exchange,
and seemed pleased with the bargains they had made. At length he ordered every thing to be
restored to the respective owners, except a glass bowl, with which he was so much pleased that
he reserved it for himself. The persons who brought these things to him, first squatted themselves
down before him, then they deposited their several purchases, and immediately rose up and retired.
The same respectful ceremony was observed in taking them away, and not one of them presumed
to speak to him standing. I stayed till several of his attendants left him, first paying him
obeisance, by bowing the head down to the sole of his foot, and touching or tapping the same
with the upper and under side of the fingers of both hands. Others, who were not in the circle,
came, as it seemed, on purpose, and paid him this mark of respect and then retired, without
speaking a word. I was quite charmed with the decorum that was observed. I had no where seen
the like, not even amongst more civilized nations.

I found the master returned from his expedition when I got on board. He informed me, that,
as far as he had proceeded, there was anchorage, and a passage for the ships, but that toward
the S. and S.E. he saw a number of small isles, shoals, and breakers. Judging, from this report,
that my attempting a passage that way would be attended with some risk, I now dropped all thoughts
of it, thinking it better to return toward Annamooka by the same route, which we had so lately
experienced to be a safe one.

Having come to this resolution, I should have sailed next morning if the wind had not been
too far southerly, and at the same time very unsettled. Poulaho, the king, as I shall now call
him, came on board betimes, and brought, as a present to me, one of their caps, made, or at
least covered, with red feathers. These caps were much sought after by us, for we knew they
would be highly valued at Otaheite. But though very large prices were offered, not one was
ever brought for sale; which shewed that they were no less valuable in the estimation of the
people here; nor was there a person in either ship that could make himself the proprietor of
one, except myself, Captain Clerke, and Omai. These caps, or rather bonnets, are composed of
the tail feathers of the tropic bird, with the red feathers of the parroquets wrought upon
them, or jointly with them. They are made so as to tie upon the forehead without any crown,
and have the form of a semicircle, whose radius is eighteen or twenty inches. The chief stayed
on board till the evening, when he left us; but his brother, whose name was also Futtafaihe,
and one or two or more of his attendants, continued in the ship all night.

At day-break, the next morning, I weighed with a fine breeze at E.N.E. and stood to the westward,
with a view to return to Annamooka, by the track we had already experienced. We were followed
by several sailing canoes, in one of which was the king. As soon as he got on board the Resolution,
he enquired for his brother, and the others who had remained with us all night. It now appeared
that they had stayed without his leave, for he gave them, in a very few words, such a reprimand
as brought tears from their eyes, and yet they were men not less than thirty years of age.
He was, however, soon reconciled to their making a longer stay, for, on quitting us, he left
his brother, and five of his attendants, on board. We had also the company of a chief just
then arrived from Tongataboo, whose name was Tooboueitoa. The moment he arrived he sent his
canoe away, and declared, that he and five more, who came with him, would sleep on board, so
that I had now my cabin filled with visitors. This, indeed, was some inconvenience; but I bore
with it more willingly, as they brought plenty of provisions with them as presents to me, for
which they always had suitable returns.

About one o'clock in the afternoon, the easterly wind was succeeded by a fresh breeze at S.S.E.
Our course now being S.S.W. or more southerly, we were obliged to ply to windward, and did
but just fetch the N. side of Footooha by eight o'clock, where we spent the night, making short
boards.

The next morning we plyed up to Lofanga, where, according to the information of our friends,
there was anchorage. It was one o'clock in the afternoon before we got soundings under the
lee or N.W. side, in forty fathoms water, near half a mile from the shore; but the bank was
steep, and the bottom rocky, and a chain of breakers lay to leeward. All these circumstances
being against us, I stretched away for Kotoo, with the expectation of finding better anchoring
ground under that island. But so much time had been spent in plying up to Lofanga, that it
was dark before we reached the other; and finding no place to anchor in, the night was spent
as the preceding one.

At day-break on the 31st I stood for the channel, which is between Kotoo and the reef of rocks
that lie to the westward of it; but, on drawing near, I found the wind too scant to lead us
through. I therefore bore up on the outside of the reef, and stretched to the S.W. till near
noon, when, perceiving that we made no progress to windward, and being apprehensive of losing
the islands with so many of the natives on board, I tacked and stood back, intending to wait
till some more favourable opportunity. We did but just fetch in with Footooba, between which
and Kotoo we spent the night, under reefed top-sails and fore-sail. The wind blew fresh, and
by squalls, with rain; and we were not without apprehensions of danger. I kept the deck till
midnight, when I left it to the master, with such directions as I thought would keep the ships
clear of the shoals and rocks that lay round us. But, after making a trip to the N., and standing
back again to the S., our ship, by a small shift of the wind, fetched farther to the windward
than was expected. By this means she was very near running full upon a low sandy isle, called
Pootoo Pootooa, surrounded with breakers. It happened, very fortunately, that the people had
just been ordered upon the deck to put the ship about, and the most of them were at their stations,
so that the necessary movements were not only executed with judgment, but also with alertness,
and this alone saved us from destruction. The Discovery being a-stern was out of danger. Such
hazardous situations are the unavoidable companions of the man who goes upon a voyage of discovery.

This circumstance frightened our passengers so much that they expressed a strong desire to
get ashore. Accordingly, as soon as day-light returned, I hoisted out a boat, and ordered the
officer who commanded her, after landing them at Kotoo, to sound along the reef that spits
off from that island for anchorage; for I was full as much tired as they could be with beating
about amongst the surrounding isles and shoals, and determined to get to an anchor somewhere
or other if possible. While the boat was absent, we attempted to turn the ships through the
channel, between the sandy isle and the reef of Kotoo, in expectation of finding a moderate
depth of water behind them to anchor in. But, meeting with a tide or current against us, we
were obliged to desist, and anchor in fifty fathoms water, with the sandy isle bearing E. by
N. one mile distant.

We lay here till the 4th of June. While in this station we were several times visited by the
king, by Touboueitoa, and by people from the neighbouring islands, who came off to trade with
us, though the wind blew very fresh most of the time. The master was now sent to sound the
channels between the islands that lie to the eastward; and I landed on Kotoo to examine it
in the forenoon of the 2d.

This island is scarcely accessible by boats, on account of coral reefs that surround it. It
is not more than a mile and half, or two miles, long, and not so broad. The N.W. end of it
is low, like the islands of Hapaee; but it rises suddenly in the middle, and terminates in
reddish clayey cliffs at the S.E. end, about thirty feet high. The soil, in that quarter, is
of the same sort as in the cliffs, but in the other parts it is a loose black mould. It produces
the same fruits and roots which we found at the other islands; is tolerably cultivated, but
thinly inhabited. While I was walking all over it, our people were employed in cutting some
grass for the cattle; and we planted some melon seeds, with which the natives seemed much pleased,
and inclosed them with branches. On our return to the boat we passed by two or three ponds
of dirty water, which was more or less brackish in each of them; and saw one of their burying-places,
which was much neater than those that were met with at Hepaee.

On the 4th, at seven in the morning, we weighed, and, with a fresh gale at E.S.E., stood away
for Annamooka, where we anchored next morning, nearly in the same station which we had so lately
occupied.

I went on shore soon after, and found the inhabitants very busy in their plantations, digging
up yams to bring to market; and, in the course of the day, about two hundred of them had assembled
on the beach, and traded with as much eagerness, as during our late visit. Their stock appeared
to have been recruited much, though we had returned so soon; but instead of bread-fruit, which
was the only article we could purchase on our first arrival, nothing was to be seen now but
yams, and a few plantains. This shews the quick succession of the seasons, at least of the
different vegetables produced here, at the several times of the year. It appeared also that
they had been very busy while we were absent in cultivating, for we now saw several large plantain
fields, in places which we had so lately seen lying waste. The yams were now in the greatest
perfection, and we procured a good quantity in exchanges for pieces of iron.

These people, in the absence of Toubou, whom we left behind us at Kotoo, with Poulaho and the
other chiefs, seemed to be under little subordination. For we could not perceive this day that
one man assumed more authority than another. Before I returned on board I visited the several
places where I had sown melon seeds, and had the mortification to find that most of them were
destroyed by a small ant; but some pine-apple plants, which I had also left, were in a thriving
state.

About noon next day, Feenou arrived from Vavaoo. He told us, that several canoes, laden with
hogs and other provisions, which had sailed with him from that island, had been lost, owing
to the late blowing weather, and that every body on board them had perished. This melancholy
tale did not seem to affect any of his countrymen who heard it, and, as to ourselves, we were
by this time too well acquainted with his character to give much credit to such a story. The
truth probably was, that he had not been able to procure at Vavaoo the supplies which he expected;
or, if he got any there, that he had left them at Hepaee, which lay in his way back, and where
he could not but receive intelligence that Poulaho had been with us; who, therefore, he knew,
would, as his superior, have all the merit and reward of procuring them, though he had not
any share of the trouble. The invention of this loss at sea was however well imagined, for
there had lately been very blowing weather; insomuch, that the king, and other chiefs, who
had followed us from Hepaee to Kotoo, had been left there, not caring to venture to sea when
we did, but desired I might wait for them at Annamooka, which was the reason of my anchoring
there this second time, and of my not proceeding directly to Tongataboo.

The following morning Poulaho, and the other chiefs who had been wind-bound with him, arrived.
I happened, at this time, to be ashore in company with Feenou, who now seemed to be sensible
of the impropriety of his conduct, in assuming a character that did not belong to him. For
he not only acknowledged Poulaho to be King of Tongataboo, and the other isles, but affected
to insist much on it, which, no doubt, was with a view to make amends for his former presumption.
I left him to visit this greater man, whom I found sitting with a few people before him. But
every one hastening to pay court to him, the circle increased pretty fast. I was very desirous
of observing Feenou's behaviour on this occasion, and had the most convincing proof of his
superiority, for he placed himself amongst the rest that sat before Poulaho, as attendants
on his majesty. He seemed at first rather abashed, as some of us were present who had been
used to see him act a different part; but he soon recovered himself. Some little conversation
passed between these two chiefs, which none of us understood, nor were we satisfied with Omai's
interpretation of it. We were, however, by this time sufficiently undeceived as to Feenou's
rank. Both he and Poulaho went on board with me to dinner, but only the latter sat at table.
Feenou, having made his obeisance in the usual way, saluting his sovereign's foot with his
head and hands, retired out of the cabin.[164] The king had before told us that this would
happen, and it now appeared that Feenou could not even eat or drink in his royal presence.

[Footnote 164: Marks of profound respect, very similar to those paid by natives of the Friendly
Islands to their sovereign, are also paid to the principal chiefs, or Tamoles, of the Caroline
Islands, as appears from Father Cantova's account here transcribed. "Lorsqu'un Tamole donne
audience, il paroit assis sur une table elevée: les peuples s'inclinent devant lui jusqu'à
terre; et du plus loin qu'ils arrivent, il marchent le corps tout courbé, et la tête presqu'entre
les génoux, jusqu'à ce qu'ils soient auprès de sa personne; alors ils s'asseyent à plate terre;
et, les yeux baissés, il reçoivent ses ordres avec le plus profond respect. Quand le Tamole
les congédie, ils se retirent, en se courbant de la même manière que quand ils sont venus,
et ne se relevent que lorsqu'ils sont hors de sa presence. Ses paroles sont autant d'oracles
qu'on revere; on rend à ses ordres une obeissance aveugle; enfin, on baise les mains et les
pieds, quand on lui demande quelque grace."--Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 312,
313.--D.]

At eight o'clock next morning we weighed and steered for Tongataboo, having a gentle breeze
at N.E. About fourteen or fifteen sailing-vessels, belonging to the natives, set out with us,
but every one of them outrun the ships considerably. Feenou was to have taken his passage in
the Resolution, but preferred his own canoe, and put two men on board to conduct us to the
best anchorage. We steered S. by W. by compass.

At five in the afternoon we saw two small islands bearing W., about four leagues distant. Our
pilots called the one Hoonga Hapaee, and the other Hoonga Tonga. They lie in the latitude of
20° 36', and ten or eleven leagues from the W. point of Annamooka, in the direction of S. 46°
W. According to the account of the islanders on board, only five men reside upon Hoonga Hapaee,
and Hoonga Tonga is uninhabited; but both of them abound with sea-fowl.

We continued the same course till two o'clock next morning, when, seeing some lights ahead,
and not knowing whether they were on shore, or on board the canoes, we hauled the wind, and
made a short trip each way till daybreak. We then resumed our course to the S. by W.; and presently
after saw several small islands before us, and Eooa and Tongataboo beyond them. We had, at
this time, twenty-five fathoms water, over a bottom of broken coral and sand. The depth gradually
decreased as we drew near the isles above mentioned, which lie ranged along the N.E. side of
Tongataboo. By the direction of our pilots we steered for the middle of it, and for the widest
space between the small isles which we were to pass, having our boats ahead employed in sounding.
We were insensibly drawn upon a large flat, upon which lay innumerable coral rocks, of different
depths, below the surface of the water. Notwithstanding all our care and attention to keep
the ship clear of them, we could not prevent her from striking on one of these rocks. Nor did
the Discovery, though behind us, escape any better. Fortunately, neither of the ships stuck
fast, nor received any damage. We could not get back without increasing the danger, as we had
come almost before the wind. Nor could we cast anchor, but with the certainty of having our
cables instantly cut in two by the rocks. We had no other resource but to proceed. To this,
indeed, we were encouraged, not only by being told, but by seeing, that there was deeper water
between us and the shore. However, that we might be better informed, the moment we found a
spot where we could drop the anchor, clear of rocks, we came-to, and sent the masters with
the boats to sound.

Soon after we had anchored, which was about noon, several of the inhabitants of Tongataboo
came off in their canoes to the ships. These, as well as our pilots, assured us that we should
find deep water farther in, and a bottom free from rocks. They were not mistaken; for about
four o'clock the boats made the signal for having found good anchorage. Upon this we weighed,
and stood in till dark, and then anchored in nine fathoms, having a fine, clear, sandy bottom.

During the night we had some showers of rain, but toward the morning the wind shifted to the
S. and S.E., and brought on fair weather. At day-break we weighed, and, working in to the shore,
met with no obstructions, but such as were visible and easily avoided.

While we were plying up to the harbour, to which the natives directed us, the king kept sailing
round us in his canoe. There were, at the same time, a great many small canoes about the ships.
Two of these, which could not get out of the way of his royal vessel, he run quite over, with
as little concern as if they had been bits of wood. Amongst many others who came on board the
Resolution, was Otago, who had been so useful to me when I visited Tongataboo during my last
voyage, and one Toubou, who, at that time, had attached himself to Captain Furneaux. Each of
them brought a hog and some yams, as a testimony of his friendship; and I was not wanting,
on my part, in making a suitable return.

At length, about two in the afternoon, we arrived at our intended station. It was a very snug
place, formed by the shore of Tongataboo on the S.E. and two small islands on the E. and N.E.
Here we anchored in ten fathoms water, over a bottom of oozy sand, distant from the shore one-third
of a mile.

Soon after we had anchored, having first dined, I landed, accompanied by Omai and some of the
officers. We found the king waiting for as upon the beach. He immediately conducted us to a
small neat house, situated a little within the skirts of the wood, with a fine large area before
it. This house, he told me, was at my service during our stay at the island; and a better situation
we could not wish for.

We had not been long in the house before a pretty large circle of the natives were assembled
before us, and seated upon the area. A root of the kava plant being brought, and laid down
before the king, he ordered it to be split into pieces, and distributed to several people of
both sexes, who began the operation of chewing it, and a bowl of their favourite liquor was
soon prepared. In the mean time, a baked hog, and two baskets of baked yams, were produced,
and afterward divided into ten portions. These portions were then given to certain people present;
but how many were to share in each I could not tell. One of them, I observed, was bestowed
upon the king's brother, and one remained undisposed of, which, I judged, was for the king
himself, as it was a choice bit. The liquor was next served out, but Poulaho seemed to give
no directions about it. The first cup was brought to him, which he ordered to be given to one
who sat near him. The second was also brought to him, and this he kept. The third was given
to me, but their manner of brewing having quenched my thirst, it became Omai's property. The
rest of the liquor was distributed to different people, by direction of the man who had the
management of it. One of the cups being carried to the king's brother, he retired with this,
and with his mess of victuals. Some others also quitted the circle with their portions, and
the reason was, they could neither eat nor drink in the royal presence; but there were others
present, of a much inferior rank, of both sexes, who did both. Soon after most of them withdrew,
carrying with them what they had not eat of their share of the feast.

I observed that not a fourth part of the company had tasted either the victuals or the drink;
those who partook of the former I supposed to be of the king's household. The servants who
distributed the baked meat and the kava, always delivered it out of their hand sitting, not
only to the king but to every other person. It is worthy of remark, though this was the first
time of our landing, and a great many people were present who had never seen us before, yet
no one was troublesome, but the greatest good order was preserved throughout the whole assembly.

Before I returned on board, I went in search of a watering-place, and was conducted to some
ponds, or rather holes, containing fresh water, as they were pleased to call it. The contents
of one of these indeed were tolerable, but it was at some distance inland, and the supply to
be got from it was very inconsiderable. Being informed that the little island of Pangimodoo,
near which the ships lay, could better furnish this necessary article, I went over to it next
morning, and was so fortunate as to find there a small pool that had rather fresher water than
any we had met with amongst these islands. The pool being very dirty, I ordered it to be cleaned;
and here it was that we watered the ships.

As I intended to make some stay at Tongataboo, we pitched a tent in the forenoon, just by the
house which Poulaho had assigned for our use. The horses, cattle, and sheep, were afterward
landed, and a party of marines, with their officer, stationed there as a guard. The observatory
was then set up, at a small distance from the other tent; and Mr King resided on shore, to
attend the observations, and to superintend the several operations necessary to be conducted
there. For the sails were carried thither to be repaired; a party was employed in cutting wood
for fuel, and plank for the use of the ships; and the gunners of both were ordered to remain
on the spot, to conduct the traffic with the natives, who thronged from every part of the island
with hogs, yams, cocoa-nuts, and other articles of their produce. In a short time our land
post was like a fair, and the ships were so crowded with visitors, that we had hardly room
to stir upon the decks.

Feenou had taken up his residence in our neighbourhood; but he was no longer the leading man.
However we still found him to be a person of consequence, and we had daily proofs of his opulence
and liberality, by the continuance of his valuable presents. But the king was equally attentive
in this respect, for scarcely a day passed without receiving from him some considerable donation.
We now heard that there were other great men of the island whom we had not as yet seen. Otago
and Toobou, in particular, mentioned a person named Mareewagee, who, they said, was of the
first consequence in the place, and held in great veneration, nay, if Omai did not misunderstand
them, superior even to Poulaho, to whom he was related; but being old, lived in retirement,
and therefore would not visit us. Some of the natives even hinted that he was too great a man
to confer that honour upon us. This account exciting my curiosity, I this day mentioned to
Poulaho that I was very desirous of waiting upon Mareewagee; and he readily agreed to accompany
me to the place of his residence the next morning.

Accordingly, we set out pretty early in the pinnace, and Captain Clerke joined me in one of
his own boats. We proceeded round, that is, to the eastward of the little isles that form the
harbour, and then, turning to the S., according to Poulaho's directions, entered a spacious
bay or inlet, up which we rowed about a league, and landed amidst a considerable number of
people, who received us with a sort of acclamation, not unlike our huzzaing. They immediately
separated, to let Poulaho pass, who took us into a small inclosure, and shifted the piece of
cloth he wore for a new piece, neatly folded, that was carried by a young man. An old woman
assisted in dressing him, and put a mat over his cloth, as we supposed, to prevent its being
dirtied when he sat down. On our now asking him where Mareewagee was, to our great surprise,
he said he had gone from the place to the ship just before we arrived. However, he desired
us to walk with him to a malaee, or house of public resort, which stood about half a mile up
the country. But when we came to a large area before it, he sat down in the path, and desired
us to walk up to the house. We did so, and seated ourselves in front, while the crowd that
followed us filled up the rest of the space. After sitting a little while, we repeated our
enquiries, by means of Omai, Whether we were to see Mareewagee? But receiving no satisfactory
information, and suspecting that the old chief was purposely concealed from us, we went back
to our boats much piqued at our disappointment; and when I got on board I found that no such
person had been there. It afterward appeared, that in this affair we had laboured under some
gross mistakes, and that our interpreter Omai had either been misinformed, or, which is more
likely, had misunderstood what was told him about the great man, on whose account we had made
this excursion.

The place we went to was a village, most delightfully situated on the bank of the inlet, where
all, or most of the principal persons of the island reside, each having his house in the midst
of a small plantation, with lesser houses, and offices for servants. These plantations are
neatly fenced round; and, for the most part, have only one entrance. This is by a door, fastened
on the inside by a prop of wood, so that a person has to knock before he can get admittance.
Public roads, and narrow lanes, lie between each plantation, so that no one trespasseth upon
another. Great part of some of these inclosures is laid out in grass-plots, and planted with
such things as seem more for ornament than use; but hardly any were without the kava plant,
from which they make their favourite liquor. Every article of the vegetable produce of the
island abounded in others of these plantations; but these, I observed, are not the residence
of people of the first rank. There are some large houses near the public roads, with spacious
smooth grass-plots before them, and uninclosed. These, I was told, belonged to the king; and
probably they are the places where their public assemblies are held. It was to one of these
houses, as I have already mentioned, that we were conducted soon after our landing at this place.

About noon, the next day, this Mareewagee, of whom we had heard so much, actually came to the
neighbourhood of our post on shore, and with him a very considerable number of people of all
ranks. I was informed, that he had taken this trouble on purpose to give me an opportunity
of waiting upon him; having probably heard of the displeasure I had shewn on my disappointment
the day before. In the afternoon, a party of us, accompanied by Feenou, landed, to pay him
a visit. We found a person sitting under a large tree near the shore, a little to the right
of the tent. A piece of cloth, at least forty yards long, was spread before him, round which
a great number of people of both sexes were seated. It was natural to suppose that this was
the great man, but we were undeceived by Feenou, who informed us that another, who sat on a
piece of mat, a little way from this chief, to the right hand, was Mareewagee, and he introduced
us to him, who received us very kindly, and desired us to sit down by him. The person who sat
under the tree, fronting us, was called Toobou; and, when I have occasion to speak of him afterward,
I shall call him old Toobou, to distinguish him from his namesake, Captain Furneaux's friend.
Both he and Mareewagee had a venerable appearance. The latter was a slender man, and, from
his appearance, seemed to be considerably above threescore years of age; the former was rather
corpulent, and almost blind with a disorder of his eyes, though not so old.

Not expecting to meet with two chiefs on this occasion, I had only brought on shore a present
for one. This I now found myself under a necessity of dividing between them; but it happened
to be pretty considerable, and both of them seemed satisfied. After this, we entertained them
for about an hour with the performance of two French horns and a drum. But they seemed most
pleased with the firing off a pistol, which Captain Clerke had in his pocket. Before I took
my leave, the large piece of cloth was rolled up, and, with a few cocoa-nuts, presented to me.

The next morning old Toobou returned my visit on board the ship. He also visited Captain Clerke;
and if the present we made to him the evening before was scanty, the deficiency was now made
up. During this time Mareewagee visited our people ashore, and Mr King shewed to him, every
thing we had there. He viewed the cattle with great admiration, and the cross-cut saw fixed
his attention for some time.

Toward noon Poulaho returned from the place where we had left, him two days before, and brought
with him his son, a youth about twelve years of age. I had his company at dinner; but the son,
though present, was not allowed to sit down with him. It was very convenient to have him for
my guest. For when he was present, which was generally the case while we stayed here, every
other native was excluded from the table, and but few of them would remain in the cabin. Whereas,
if by chance it happened that neither he nor Feenou were on board, the inferior chiefs would
be very importunate to be of our dining party, or to be admitted into the cabin at that time,
and then we were so crowded that we could not sit down to a meal with any satisfaction. The
king was very soon reconciled to our manner of cookery. But still I believe he dined thus frequently
with me more for the sake of what we gave him to drink, than for what we set before him to
eat. For he had taken a liking to our wine, could empty his bottle as well as most men, and
was as cheerful over it. He now fixed his residence at the house, or malaee, by our tent; and
there he entertained our people this evening with a dance. To the surprise of every body the
unwieldy Poulaho endeavoured to vie with others in that active amusement.

In the morning of the 15th I received a message from old Toobou that he wanted to see me ashore.
Accordingly Omai and I went to wait upon him. We found him, like an ancient patriarch, seated
under the shade of a tree, with a large piece of the cloth, made in the island, spread out
at full length before him, and a number of respectably looking people sitting round it. He
desired us to place ourselves by him; and then he told Omai, that the cloth, together with
a piece of red feathers, and about a dozen cocoa-nuts, were his present to me. I thanked him
for the favour, and desired he would go on board with me, as I had nothing on shore to give
him in return.

Omai now left me, being sent for by Penlaho; and soon after Feenou came, and acquainted me
that young Fattafaihe, Poulaho's son, desired to see me. I obeyed the summons, and found the
prince and Omai sitting under a large canopy of the finer sort of cloth, with a piece of the
coarser sort spread under them and before them, that was seventy-six yards long, and seven
and a half broad. On one side was a large old boar, and on the other side a heap of cocoa-nuts.
A number of people were seated round the cloth, and amongst them I observed Mareewagee, and
others of the first rank. I was desired to sit down by the prince; and then Omai informed me,
that he had been instructed by the king to tell me, that, as he and I were friends, he hoped
that his son might be joined in this friendship, and that, as a token of my consent, I would
accept of his present. I very readily agreed to the proposal; and it being now dinner time,
I invited them all on board.

Accordingly, the young prince, Mareewagee, old Toobou, three or four inferior chiefs, and two
respectable old ladies of the first rank, accompanied me. Mareewagee was dressed in a new piece
of cloth, on the skirts of which were fixed six pretty large patches of red feathers. This
dress seemed to have been made on purpose for this visit; for, as soon as he got on board,
he put it off, and presented it to me; having, I guess, heard that it would be acceptable,
on account of the feathers. Every one of my visitors received from me such presents, as, I
had reason to believe, they were highly satisfied with. When dinner came upon table, not one
of them would sit down, or eat a bit, of any thing that was served up. On expressing my surprise
at this, they were all taboo, as they said; which word has a very comprehensive meanings but,
in general, signifies that a thing is forbidden. Why they were laid under such restraints,
at present, was not explained. Dinner being over, and, having gratified their curiosity, by
shewing to them every part of the ship, I then conducted them ashore.

As soon as the boat reached the beach, Feenou, and some others, instantly stepped out. Young
Fattafaihe following them, was called back by Mareewagee, who now paid the heir-apparent the
same obeisance, and in the same manner, that I had seen it paid to the king. And when old Toobou,
and one of the old ladies, had shewn him the same marks of respect, he was suffered to land.
This ceremony being over, the old people stepped from my boat into a canoe that was waiting
to carry them to their place of abode.

I was not sorry to be present on this occasion, as I was thus furnished with the most unequivocal
proofs of the supreme dignity of Poulaho and his son, over the other principal chiefs. Indeed,
by this time, I had acquired some certain information about the relative situations of the
several great men, whose names have been so often mentioned. I now knew, that Mareewagee and
old Toobou were brothers. Both of them were men of great property in the island, and seemed
to be in high estimation with the people; the former, in particular, had the very honourable
appellation given to him, by every body, of Motooa Tonga; that is to say, Father of Tonga,
or of his country. The nature of his relationship to the king was also no longer a secret to
us; for we now understood, that he was his father-in-law; Poulaho having married one of his
daughters, by whom he had this son; so that Mareewagee was the prince's grandfather. Poulaho's
appearance having satisfied us, that we had been under a mistake in considering Feenou as the
sovereign of these islands, we had been, at first, much puzzled about his real rank; but that
was, by this time, ascertained. Feenou was one of Mareewagee's sons; and Tooboueitoa was another.

On my landing, I found the king, in the house adjoining to our tent, along with our people
who resided on shore. The moment I got to him, he bestowed upon me a present of a large hog
and a quantity of yams. About the dusk of the evening, a number of men came, and, having sat
down in a round group, began to sing in concert with the music of bamboo drums, which were
placed in the centre.[165] There were three long ones, and two short. With these they struck
the ground endwise, as before described. There were two others, which lay on the ground, side
by side, and one of them was split or shivered; on these a man kept beating with two small
sticks. They sung three songs while I stayed; and, I was told, that, after I left them, the
entertainment lasted till ten o'clock. They burnt the leaves of the wharra palm for a light;
which is the only thing I ever saw them make use of for this purpose.

[Footnote 165: The same sort of evening concert is performed round the house of the chief,
or Tamole, at the Caroline Islands. "Le Tamole ne s'endort qu'au bruit d'un concert de musique
que forme une troupe de jeunes gens, qui s'assemblent le soir, autour de sa maison, et qui
chantent, à leur manière, certaines poësies."--Lettres Edifiantes & Curieuses, tom, xv. p.
314.--D.]

While I was passing the day in attendance on these great men, Mr Anderson, with some others,
made an excursion into the country, which furnished him with the following remarks: "To the
westward of the tent, the country is totally uncultivated for near two miles, though quite
covered with trees and bushes, in a natural state, growing with the greatest vigour. Beyond
this is a pretty large plain, on which are some cocoa-trees, and a few small plantations that
appear to have been lately made; and, seemingly, on ground that has never been cultivated before.
Near the creek, which runs to the westward of the tent, the land is quite flat, and partly
overflowed by the sea every tide. When that retires, the surface is seen to be composed of
coral rock, with holes of yellowish mud scattered up and down; and toward the edges, where
it is a little firmer, are innumerable little openings, from which issue as many small crabs,
of two or three different sorts, which swarm upon the spot, as flies upon a carcase; but are
so nimble, that, on being approached, they disappear in an instant, and baffle even the natives
to catch any of them.

At this place is a work of art, which shews that these people are capable of some design, and
perseverance, when they mean to accomplish any thing. This work begins, on one side, as a narrow
causeway, which, becoming gradually broader, rises, with a gentle ascent, to the height of
ten feet, where it is five paces broad, and the whole length seventy-four paces. Joined to
this is a sort of circus, whose diameter is thirty paces, and not above a foot or two higher
than the causeway that joins it, with some trees planted in the middle. On the opposite side,
another causeway of the same sort descends; but this is not above forty paces long, and is
partly in ruin. The whole is built with large coral stones, with earth on the surface, which
is quite overgrown with low trees and shrubs; and, from its decaying in several places, seems
to be of no modern date. Whatever may have been its use formerly, it seems to be of none now;
and all that we could learn of it from the natives was, that it belonged to Poulaho, and is
called Etchee.

On the 16th, in the morning, after visiting the several works now carrying on ashore, Mr Gore
and I took a walk into the country; in the course of which nothing remarkable appeared, but
our having opportunities of seeing the whole process of making cloth, which is the principal
manufacture of these islands, as well as of many others in this ocean. In the narrative of
my first voyage, a minute description is given of this operation, as performed at Otaheite;
but the process, here, differing in some particulars, it may be worth while to give the following
account of it:

The manufacturers, who are females, take the slender stalks or trunks of the paper-mulberry,
which they cultivate for that purpose, and which seldom grow more than six or seven feet in
height, and about four fingers in thickness. From these they strip the bark, and scrape off
the outer rind with a muscle-shell. The bark is then rolled up, to take off the convexity which
it had round the stalk, and macerated in water for some time (they say, a night). After this,
it is laid across the trunk of a small tree squared, and beaten with a square wooden instrument,
about a foot long, full of coarse grooves on all sides; but, sometimes, with one that is plain.
According to the size of the bark, a piece is soon produced; but the operation is often repeated
by another hand, or it is folded several times, and beat longer, which seems rather intended
to close than to divide its texture. When this is sufficiently effected, it is spread out to
dry; the pieces being from four to six, or more, feet in length, and half as broad. They are
then given to another person, who joins the pieces, by smearing part of them over with the
viscous juice of a berry, called tooo, which serves as a glue. Having been thus lengthened,
they are laid over a large piece of wood, with a kind of stamp, made of a fibrous substance
pretty closely interwoven, placed beneath. They then take a bit of cloth, and dip it in a juice,
expressed from the bark of a tree, called kokka, which they rub briskly upon the piece that
is making. This, at once, leaves a dull brown colour, and a dry gloss upon its surface; the
stamp, at the same time, making a slight impression, that answers no other purpose, that I
could see, but to make the several pieces, that are glued together, stick a little more firmly.
In this manner they proceed, joining and staining by degrees, till they produce a piece of
cloth, of such length and breadth as they want; generally leaving a border, of a foot broad,
at the sides, and longer at the ends, unstained. Throughout the whole, if any parts of the
original pieces are too thin, or have holes, which is often the case, they glue spare bits
upon them, till they become of an equal thickness. When they want to produce a black colour,
they mix the soot procured from an oily nut, called dooedooe, with the juice of the kokka,
in different quantities, according to the proposed depth of the tinge. They say, that the black
sort of cloth, which is commonly most glazed, makes a cold dress, but the other a warm one;
and, to obtain strength in both, they are always careful to join the small pieces lengthwise,
which makes it impossible to tear the cloth in any direction but one.

On our return from the country, we met with Feenou, and took him, and another young chief,
on board to dinner. When our fare was set upon the table, neither of them would eat a bit;
saying, that they were taboo avy. But, after enquiring how the victuals had been dressed, having
found that no avy (water) had been used in cooking a pig; and some yams, they both sat down,
and made a very hearty meal; and, on being assured that there was no water in the wine, they
drank of it also. From this we conjectured, that, on some account or another, they were, at
this time, forbidden to use water; or, which was more probable, they did not like the water
we made use of, it being taken up out of one of their bathing-places. This was not the only
time of our meeting with people that were taboo avy; but, for what reason, we never could tell
with any degree of certainty.

Next day, the 17th, was fixed upon by Mareewagee, for giving a grand Haiva, or entertainment,
to which we were all invited. For this purpose a large space had been cleared, before the temporary
hut of this chief, near our post, as an area where the performances were to be exhibited. In
the morning, great multitudes of the natives came in from the country, every one carrying a
pole, about six feet long, upon his shoulder; and at each end of every pole, a yam was suspended.
These yams and poles were deposited on each side of the area, so as to form two large heaps,
decorated with different sorts of small fish, and piled up to the greatest advantage. They
were Mareewagee's present to Captain Clerke and me; and it was hard to say, whether the wood
for fuel, or the yams for food, were of most value to us. As for the fish, they might serve
to please the sight, but were very offensive to the smell; part of them having been kept two
or three days, to be presented to us on this occasion.

Every thing being thus prepared, about eleven o'clock they began to exhibit various dances,
which they call mai. The music[166] consisted, at first, of seventy men as a chorus, who sat
down; and amidst them were placed three instruments, which we called drums, though very unlike
them. They are large cylindrical pieces of wood, or trunks of trees, from three to four feet
long, some twice as thick as an ordinary sized man, and some smaller, hollowed entirely out,
but close at both ends, and open only by a chink, about three inches broad, running almost
the whole length of the drums; by which opening, the rest of the wood is certainly hollowed,
though the operation must be difficult. This instrument is called naffa; and, with the chink
turned toward them, they sit and beat strongly upon it, with two cylindrical pieces of hard
wood, about a foot long, and as thick as the wrist; by which means they produce a rude, though
loud and powerful sound. They vary the strength and rate of their beating, at different parts
of the dance; and also change the tones, by beating in the middle, or near the end, of their drum.

[Footnote 166: Mr Anderson's description of the entertainments of this day being much fuller
than Captain Cook's, it has been adopted, as on a former occasion.--D.]

The first dance consisted of four ranks, of twenty-four men each, holding in their hands a
little, thin, light, wooden instrument, above two feet long, and, in shape, not unlike a small
oblong paddle. With these, which are called pagge, they made a great many different motions;
such as pointing them toward the ground on one side, at the same time inclining their bodies
that way, from which they were shifted to the opposite side in the same manner; then passing
them quickly from one hand to the other, and twirling them about very dextrously; with a variety
of other manoeuvres, all which were accompanied by corresponding attitudes of the body. Their
motions were, at first, slow, but quickened as the drums beat faster; and they recited sentences,
in a musical tone, the whole time, which were answered by the chorus; but at the end of a short
space they all joined, and finished with a shout.

After ceasing about two or three minutes, they began as before, and continued, with short intervals,
above a quarter of an hour; when the rear rank dividing, shifted themselves very slowly round
each end, and, meeting in the front, formed the first rank; the whole number continuing to
recite the sentences as before. The other ranks did the same successively, till that which,
at first, was the front, became the rear; and the evolution continued, in the same manner,
till the last rank regained its first situation. They then began a much quicker dance (though
slow at first), and sung for about ten minutes, when the whole body divided into two parts,
retreated a little, and then approached, forming a sort of circular figure, which finished
the dance; the drums being removed, and the chorus going off the field at the same time.

The second dance had only two drums, with forty men for a chorus; and the dancers, or rather
actors, consisted of two ranks, the foremost having seventeen, and the other fifteen persons.
Feenou was at their head, or in the middle of the front rank, which is the principal place
in these cases. They danced and recited sentences, with some very short intervals, for about
half an hour, sometimes quickly, sometimes more slowly, but with such a degree of exactness,
as if all the motions were made by one man, which did them great credit. Near the close, the
back rank divided, came round, and took the place of the front, which, again resumed its situation,
as in the first dance; and when they finished, the drums and chorus, as before, went off.

Three drums (which, at least, took two, and sometimes three men to carry them) were now brought
in; and seventy men sat down as a chorus to the third dance. This consisted of two ranks, of
sixteen persons each, with young Toobou at their head, who was richly ornamented with a sort
of garment covered with red feathers. These danced, sung, and twirled the pagge, as before;
but, in general, much quicker, and performed so well, that they had the constant applauses
of the spectators. A motion that met with particular approbation, was one in which they held
the face aside, as if ashamed, and the pagge before it. The back rank closed before the front
one, and that again resumed its place, as in the two former dances; but then they began again,
formed a triple row, divided, retreated to each end of the area, and left the greatest part
of the ground clear. At that instant, two men entered very hastily, and exercised the clubs
which they use in battle. They did this, by first twirling them in their hands, and making
circular strokes before them with great force and quickness; but so skilfully managed, that,
though standing quite close, they never interfered. They shifted their clubs from hand to hand,
with great dexterity; and, after continuing a little time, kneeled, and made different motions,
tossing the clubs up in the air, which they caught as they fell; and then went off as hastily
as they entered. Their heads were covered with pieces of white cloth, tied at the crown (almost
like a night-cap) with a wreath of foliage round the forehead; but they had only very small
pieces of white cloth tied about their waists; probably, that they might be cool, and free
from every encumbrance or weight. A person with a spear, dressed like the former, then came
in, and in the same hasty manner; looking about eagerly, as if in search of somebody to throw
it at. He then ran hastily to one side of the crowd in the front, and put himself in a threatening
attitude, as if he meant to strike with his spear at one of them, bending the knee a little,
and trembling, as it were with rage. He continued in this manner only a few seconds, when he
moved to the other side, and having stood in the same posture there, for the same short time,
retreated from the ground, as fast as when he made his appearance. The dancers, who had divided
into two parties, kept repeating something slowly all this while: and now advanced, and joined
again, ending with universal applause. It should seem that this dance was considered as one
of their capital performances, if we might judge from some of the principal people being engaged
in it. For one of the drums was beat by Futtafaihe, the brother of Poulaho, another by Feenou,
and the third, which did not belong to the chorus, by Mareewagee himself, at the entrance of
his hut.

The last dance had forty men, and two drums, as a chorus. It consisted of sixty men, who had
not danced before, disposed in three rows, having twenty-four in front. But, before they began,
we were entertained with a pretty long preliminary harangue, in which the whole body made responses
to a single person who spoke. They recited sentences (perhaps verses) alternately with the
chorus, and made many motions with the pagge, in a very brisk mode, which were all applauded
with mareeai! and fufogge! words expressing two different degrees of praise. They divided into
two bodies, with their backs to each other; formed again, shifted their ranks, as in the other
dances; divided and retreated, making room for two champions, who exercised their clubs as
before; and after them two others; the dancers, all the time, reciting slowly in turn with
the chorus; after which they advanced and finished.

These dances, if they can properly be called so, lasted from eleven till near three o'clock;
and though they were, doubtless, intended, particularly, either in honour of us, or to shew
a specimen of their dexterity, vast numbers of their own people attended as spectators. Their
numbers could not be computed exactly, on account of the inequality of the ground; but, by
reckoning the inner circle, and the number in depth, which was between twenty and thirty in
many places, we supposed that there must be near four thousand. At the same time, there were
round the trading place at the tent, and straggling about, at least as many more; and some
of us computed, that, aft this time, there were no less than ten or twelve thousand people
in our neighbourhood; that is, within the compass of a quarter of a mile; drawn together, for
the most part, by mere curiosity.

It is with regret I mention, that we could not understand what was spoken, while we were able
to see what was acted, in these amusements. This, doubtless, would have afforded us much information,
as to the genius and customs of these people. It was observable, that, though the spectators
always approved of the various motions, when well made, a great share of the pleasure they
received seemed to arise from the sentimental part, or what the performers delivered in their
speeches. However, the mere acting part, independently of the sentences repeated, was well
worth our notice, both with respect to the extensive plan on which it was executed, and to
the various motions, as well as the exact unity, with which they were performed. Neither pencil
nor pen can describe the numerous actions and motions, the singularity of which was not greater,
than was the ease and gracefulness with which they were performed.

At night, we were entertained with the bomai, or night dances, on a space before Feenou's temporary
habitation. They lasted about three hours; in which time we had about twelve of them performed,
much after the same manner as those at Hepaee. But, in two, that were performed by women, a
number of men came and formed a circle within their's. And, in another, consisting of twenty-four
men, there were a number of motions with the hands, that we had not seen before, and were highly
applauded. The music was, also, once changed, in the course of the night; and in one of the
dances, Feenou appeared at the head of fifty men who had performed at Hepaee, and he was well
dressed with linen, a large piece of gauze, and some little pictures hung round his neck. But
it was evident, after the diversions were closed, that we had put these poor people, or rather
that they had put themselves, to much inconvenience. For being drawn together on this uninhabited
part of their island, numbers of them were obliged to lie down and sleep under the bushes,
by the side of a tree, or of a canoe; nay, many either lay down in the open air, which they
are not fond of, or walked about all the night.

The whole of this entertainment was conducted with far better order, than could have been expected
in so large an assembly. Amongst such a multitude, there must be a number of ill-disposed people;
and we, hourly, experienced it. All our care and attention did not prevent their plundering
us, in every quarter; and that in the most daring and insolent manner. There was hardly any
thing that they did not attempt to steal; and yet, as the crowd was always so great, I would
not allow the sentries to fire, lest the innocent should suffer for the guilty. They once,
at noon day, ventured to aim at taking an anchor from off the Discovery's bows; and they would
certainly have succeeded, if the flook had not hooked one of the chain-plates in lowering down
the ship's side, from which they could not disengage it by hand; and tackles were things they
were unacquainted with. The only act of violence they were guilty of, was the breaking the
shoulder-bone of one of our goats, so that she died soon after. This loss fell upon themselves,
as she was one of those that I intended to leave upon the island; but of this, the person who
did it was ignorant.

Early in the morning of the 18th, an incident happened, that strongly marked one of their customs.
A man got out of a canoe into the quarter gallery of the Resolution, and stole from thence
a pewter bason. He was discovered, pursued, and brought alongside the ship. On this occasion,
three old women, who were in the canoe, made loud lamentations over the prisoner, beating their
breasts and faces in a most violent manner, with the inside of their fists; and all this was
done without shedding a tear. This mode of expressing grief is what occasions the mark which
almost all this people bear on the face, over the cheek-bones. The repeated blows which they
inflict upon this part, abrade the skin, and make even the blood flow out in a considerable
quantity; and when the wounds are recent, they look as if a hollow circle had been burnt in.
On many occasions, they actually cut this part of the face with an instrument, in the same
manner as the people of Otaheite cut their heads.

This day, I bestowed on Mareewagee some presents, in return for those we had received from
him the day before; and as the entertainments which he had then exhibited for our amusement,
called upon us to make some exhibition in our way, I ordered the party of marines to go through
their exercise on the spot where his dances had been performed; and, in the evening, played
off some fire-works at the same place. Poulaho, with all the principal chiefs, and a great
number of people, of all denominations, were present. The platoon firing, which was executed
tolerably well, seemed to give them pleasure; but they were lost in astonishment when they
beheld our water-rockets. They paid but little attention to the fife and drum, or French horns
that played during the intervals. The king sat behind every body, because no one is allowed
to sit behind him; and, that his view might not be obstructed, nobody sat immediately before
him; but a lane, as it were, was made by the people from him, quite down to the space allotted
for the fire-works.

In expectation of this evening show, the circle of natives about our tent being pretty large,
they engaged, the greatest part of the afternoon, in boxing and wrestling; the first of which
exercises they call fangatooa, and the second foohoo. When any of them chooses to wrestle,
he gets up from one side of the ring, and crosses the ground in a sort of measured pace, clapping
smartly on the elbow joint of one arm, which is bent, and produces a hollow sound; that is
reckoned the challenge. If no person comes out from the opposite side to engage him, he returns
in the same manner, and sits down; but sometimes stands clapping in the midst of the ground,
to provoke some one to come out. If an opponent appear, they come together with marks of the
greatest good-nature, generally smiling, and taking time to adjust the piece of cloth which
is fastened round the waist. They then lay hold of each other by this girdle, with a hand on
each side; and he who succeeds in drawing his antagonist to him, immediately tries to lift
him upon his breast, and throw him upon his back; and if he be able to turn round with him
two or three times, in that position, before he throws him, his dexterity never fails of procuring
plaudits from the spectators. If they be more equally matched, they close soon, and endeavour
to throw each other by entwining their legs, or lifting each other from the ground; in which
struggles they shew a prodigious exertion of strength, every muscle, as it were, being ready
to burst with straining. When one is thrown, he immediately quits the field, but the victor
sits down for a few seconds, then gets up, and goes to the side he came from, who proclaim
the victory aloud, in a sentence delivered slowly, and in a musical cadence. After sitting
a short space, he rises again and challenges; when some-times several antagonists make their
appearance; but he has the privilege of choosing which of them he pleases to wrestle with;
and has, likewise, the preference of challenging again, if he should throw his adversary, until
he himself be vanquished; and then the opposite side sing the song of victory in favour of
their champion. It also often happens, that five or six rise from each side, and challenge
together; in which case, it is common to see three or four couple engaged on the field at once.
But it is astonishing to see what temper they preserve in this exercise; for we observed no
instances of their leaving the spot, with the least displeasure in their countenances. When
they find that they are so equally matched as not to be likely to throw each other, they leave
off by mutual consent. And if the fall of one is not fair, or if it does not appear very clearly
who has had the advantage, both sides sing the victory, and then they engage again. But no
person, who has been vanquished, can engage with his conqueror a second time.

The boxers advance side-ways, changing the side at every pace, with one arm stretched fully
out before, the other behind; and holding a piece of cord in one hand, which they wrap firmly
about it, when they find an antagonist, or else have done so before they enter. This, I imagine,
they do, to prevent a dislocation of the hand or fingers. Their blows are directed chiefly
to the head; but sometimes to the sides; and are dealt out with great activity. They shift
sides, and box equally well with both hands. But one of their favourite and most dextrous blows,
is, to turn round on their heel, just as they have struck their antagonist, and to give him
another very smart one with the other hand backward.

The boxing matches seldom last long; and the parties either leave off together, or one acknowledges
his being beat. But they never sing the song of victory in these cases, unless one strikes
his adversary to the ground; which shews, that, of the two, wrestling is their most approved
diversion. Not only boys engage, in both the exercises, but frequently little girls box very
obstinately for a short time. In all which cases, it doth not appear, that they ever consider
it as the smallest disgrace to be vanquished; and the person overcome sits down, with as much
indifference, as if he had never entered the lists. Some of our people ventured to contend
with them in both exercises, but were always worsted; except in a few instances, where it appeared,
that the fear they were in of offending us, contributed more to the victory, than the superiority
of the person they engaged.

The cattle, which we had brought, and which were all on shore, however carefully guarded, I
was sensible, run no small risk, when I considered the thievish disposition of many of the
natives, and their dexterity in appropriating to themselves, by stealth, what they saw no prospect
of obtaining by fair means. For this reason, I thought it prudent to declare my intention of
leaving behind me some of our animals; and even to make a distribution of them previously to
my departure.

With this view, in the evening of the 19th, I assembled all the chiefs before our house, and
my intended presents to them were marked out. To Poulaho, the king, I gave a young English
bull and cow; to Mareewagee, a Cape ram, and two ewes; and to Feenou, a horse and a mare. As
my design, to make such a distribution, had been made known the day before, most of the people
in the neighbourhood were then present. I instructed Omai to tell them, that there were no
such animals within many months sail of their island; that we had brought them, for their use,
from that immense distance, at a vast trouble and expence; that, therefore, they must be careful
not to kill any of them, till they had multiplied to a numerous race; and, lastly, that they
and their children ought to remember, that they had received them from the men of Britane.
He also explained to them their several uses, and what else was necessary for them to know,
or rather as far as he knew; for Omai was not very well versed in such things himself. As I
intended that the above presents should remain with the other cattle, till we were ready to
sail, I desired each of the chiefs to send a man or two to look after their respective animals,
along with my people, in order that they might be better acquainted with them, and with the
manner of treating them. The king and Feenou did so; but neither Mareewagee, nor any other
person for him, took the least notice of the sheep afterward; nor did old Toobou attend at
this meeting, though he was invited, and was in the neighbourhood. I had meant to give him
the goats, viz. a ram and two ewes; which, as he was so indifferent about them, I added to
the king's share.

It soon appeared, that some were dissatisfied with this allotment of our animals; for, early
next morning, one of our kids, and two turkey-cocks, were missing. I could not be so simple
as to suppose, that this was merely an accidental loss; and I was determined to have them again.
The first step I took was to seize on three canoes that happened to be alongside the ships.
I then went ashore, and, having found the king, his brother, Feenou, and some other chiefs,
in the house that we occupied, I immediately put a guard over them, and gave them to understand,
that they must remain under restraint, till not only the kid and the turkeys, but the other
things that had been stolen from us, at different times, were restored. They concealed, as
well as they could, their feelings, on finding themselves prisoners; and, having assured me,
that every thing should be restored, as I desired, sat down to drink their kava, seemingly
much at their ease. It was not long before an axe, and an iron wedge, were brought to me. In
the mean time, some armed natives began to gather behind the house; but, on a part of our guard
marching against them, they dispersed; and I advised the chiefs to give orders, that no more
should appear. Such orders were accordingly given by them, and they were obeyed. On asking
them to go aboard with me to dinner, they readily consented. But some having afterward objected
to the king's going, he instantly rose up, and declared he would be the first man. Accordingly
we came on board. I kept them there till near four o'clock, when I conducted them ashore; and,
soon after, the kid, and one of the turkey-cocks, were brought back. The other, they said,
should be restored the next morning. I believed this would happen, and released both them and
the canoes.

After the chiefs had left us, I walked out with Omai, to observe how the people about us fared;
for this was the time of their meals. I found that, in general, they were at short commons.
Nor is this to be wondered at, since most of the yams, and other provisions which they brought
with them, were sold to us; and they never thought of returning to their own habitations, while
they could find any sort of subsistence in our neighbourhood. Our station was upon an uncultivated
point of land; so that there were none of the islanders, who, properly, resided within half
a mile of us. But, even at this distance, the multitude of strangers being so great, one might
have expected, that every house would have been much crowded. It was quite otherwise. The families
residing there were as much left to themselves, as if there had not been a supernumerary visitor
near them. All the strangers lived in little temporary sheds, or under trees and bushes; and
the cocoa-trees were stripped of their branches, to erect habitations for the chiefs.

In this walk we met with about half a dozen women, in one place, at supper. Two of the company,
I observed, being fed by the others, on our asking the reason, they said taboo mattee. On farther
enquiry we found, that one of them had, two months before, washed the dead corpse of a chief;
and that, on this account, she was not to handle any food for five months. The other had performed
the same office to the corpse of another person of inferior rank, and was now under the same
restriction; but not for so long a time. At another place, hard by, we saw another woman fed;
and we learnt, that she had assisted in washing the corpse of the above-mentioned chief.

Early the next morning, the king came on board, to invite me to an entertainment, which he
proposed to give the same day. He had already been under the barber's hands; his head being
all besmeared with red pigment, in order to redden his hair, which was naturally of a dark-brown
colour. After breakfast, I attended him to the shore; and we found his people very busy, in
two places, in the front of our area, fixing, in an upright and square position, thus [::],
four very long posts, near two feet from each other. The space between the posts was afterward
filled up with yams; and as they went on filling it, they fastened pieces of sticks across,
from post to post, at the distance of about every four feet, to prevent the posts from separating
by the weight of the inclosed yams, and also to get up by. When the yams had reached the top
of the first posts, they fastened others to them, and so continued till each pile was the height
of thirty feet, or upward. On the top of one, they placed two baked hogs; and on the top of
the other, a living one; and another they tied by the legs, half-way up. It was matter of curiosity
to observe, with what facility and dispatch these two piles were raised. Had our seamen been
ordered to execute such a work, they would have sworn that it could not be performed without
carpenters; and the carpenters would have called to their aid a dozen different sorts of tools,
and have expended, at least, a hundred weight of nails; and, after all, it would have employed
them as many days as it did these people hours. But seamen, like most other amphibious animals,
are always the most helpless on land. After they had completed these two piles, they made several
other heaps of yams and bread-fruit on each side of the area; to which were added a turtle,
and a large quantity of excellent fish. All this, with a piece of cloth, a mat, and some red
feathers, was the king's present to me; and he seemed to pique himself on exceeding, as he
really did, Feenou's liberality, which I experienced at Hepaee.

About one o'clock they began the mai, or dances; the first of which was almost a copy of the
first that was exhibited at Mareewagee's entertainment. The second was conducted by Captain
Furneaux's Toobou, who, as we mentioned, had also danced there; and in this, four or five women
were introduced, who went through the several parts with as much exactness as the men. Toward
the end, the performers divided to leave room for two champions, who exercised their clubs,
as described on a former occasion. And, in the third dance, which was the last now presented,
two more men, with their clubs, displayed their dexterity. The dances were succeeded by wrestling
and boxing; and one man entered the lists with a sort of club, made from the stem of a cocoa-leaf,
which is firm and heavy; but could find no antagonist to engage him at so rough a sport. At
night we had the bomai repeated; in which Poulaho himself danced, dressed in English manufacture.
But neither these, nor the dances in the daytime, were so considerable, nor carried on with
so much spirit, as Feenou's, or Mareewagee's; and, therefore, there is less occasion to be
more particular in our description of them.

In order to be present the whole time, I dined ashore. The king sat down with us, but he neither
ate nor drank. I found that this was owing to the presence of a female, whom, at his desire,
I had admitted to the dining-party; and who, as we afterward understood, had superior rank
to himself. As soon as this great personage had dined, she stepped up to the king, who put
his hands to her feet, and then she retired. He immediately dipped his fingers into a glass
of wine, and then received the obeisance of all her followers. This was the single instance
we ever observed of his paying this mark of reverence to any person. At the king's desire,
I ordered some fire-works to be played off in the evening; but, unfortunately, being damaged;
this exhibition did not answer expectation.

As no more entertainments were to be expected on either side, and the curiosity of the populace
was, by this time, pretty well satisfied, on the day after Poulaho's haiva, most of them left
us. We still, however, had thieves about us; and, encouraged by the negligence of our own people,
we had continual instances of their depredations.

Some of the officers, belonging to both ships, who had made an excursion into the interior
parts of the island, without my leave, and, indeed, without my knowledge, returned this evening,
after an absence of two days. They had taken with them their musquets, with the necessary ammunition,
and several small articles of the favourite commodities; all which the natives had the dexterity
to steal from them in the course of their expedition. This affair was likely to be attended
with inconvenient consequences. For our plundered travellers, upon their return, without consulting
me, employed Omai to complain to the king of the treatment they had met with. He, not knowing
what step I should take, and, from what had already happened, fearing lest I might lay him
again under restraint, went off early the next morning. His example was followed by Feenou;
so that we had not a chief of any authority remaining in our neighbourhood. I was very much
displeased at this, and reprimanded Omai for having presumed to meddle. This reprimand put
him upon his mettle to bring his friend Feenou hack; and he succeeded in the negociation, having
this powerful argument to urge, that he might depend upon my using no violent measures to oblige
the natives to restore what had been taken from the gentlemen. Feenou, trusting to this declaration,
returned toward the evening; and, encouraged by the reception, Poulaho favoured us with his
company the day after. Both these chiefs, upon this occasion, very justly observed to me, that,
if any of my people, at any time, wanted to go into the country, they ought to be acquainted
with it; in which case they would send proper people along with them; and then they would be
answerable for their safety. And I am convinced, from experience, that, by taking this very
reasonable precaution, a man and his property may be as safe among these islanders, as in other
parts of the more civilized world. Though I gave myself no trouble about the recovery of the
things stolen upon this occasion, most of them, through Feenou's interposition, were recovered,
except one musquet, and a few other articles of inferior value. By this time, also, we had
recovered the turkey-cock, and most of the tools, and other matters, that had been stolen from
our workmen.

On the 25th, two boats, which I had sent to look for a channel, by which we might, most commodiously,
get to sea, returned. The masters, who commanded them, reported, that the channel to the north,
by which we came in, was highly dangerous, being full of coral rocks from one side to the other;
but that, to the eastward, there was a very good channel, which, however, was very much contracted
in one place by the small islands, so that a leading wind would be requisite to get through
it; that is, a westerly wind, which, we had found, did not often blow here. We had now recruited
the ships with wood and water, we had finished the repairs of our sails, and had little more
to expect from the inhabitants of the produce of their island. However, as an eclipse of the
sun was to happen upon the 5th of next month, I resolved to defer sailing till that time had
elapsed, in order to have a chance of observing it.

Having, therefore, some days of leisure before me, a party of us, accompanied by Poulaho, set
out, early next morning, in a boat for Mooa, the village where he and the other great men usually
reside. As we rowed up the inlet, we met with fourteen canoes fishing in company, in one of
which was Poulaho's son. In each canoe was a triangular net, extended between two poles; at
the lower end of which was a cod to receive and secure the fish. They had already caught some
fine mullets, and they put about a dozen into our boat. I desired to see their method of fishing,
which they readily complied with. A shoal of fish was supposed to be upon one of the banks,
which they instantly inclosed in a long net like a seine, or set-net. This the fishers, one
getting into the water out of each boat, surrounded with the triangular nets in their hands,
with which they scooped the fish out of the seine, or caught them as they attempted to leap
over it. They shewed us the whole process of this operation, (which seemed to be a sure one,)
by throwing in some of the fish they had already caught; for, at this time, there happened
to be none upon the bank that was inclosed.

Leaving the prince and his fishing party, we proceeded to the bottom of the bay, and landed
where we had done before, on our fruitless errand to see Mareewagee. As soon as we got on shore,
the king desired Omai to tell me, that I need be under no apprehensions about the boat, or
any thing in her, for not a single article would be touched by any one; and we afterward found
this to be the case. We were immediately conducted to one of Poulaho's houses not far off,
and near the public one, or malaee, in which we had been, when we first visited Mooa. This,
though pretty large, seemed to be his private habitation, and was situated within a plantation.
The king took his seat at one end of the house, and the people who came to visit him, sat down,
as they arrived, in a semicircle at the other end. The first thing done, was to prepare a bowl
of kava, and to order some yams to be baked for us. While these were getting ready, some of
us, accompanied by a few of the king's attendants, and Omai as our interpreter, walked out
to take a view of a fiatooka, or burying-place, which we had observed to be almost close by
the house, and was much more extensive, and seemingly of more consequence, than any we had
seen at the other islands. We were told that it belonged to the king. It consisted of three
pretty large houses, situated upon a rising ground, or rather just by the brink of it, with
a small one at some distance, all ranged longitudinally. The middle house of the three first,
was by much the largest, and placed in a square, twenty-four paces by twenty-eight, raised
about three feet. The other houses were placed on little mounts, raised artificially to the
same height. The floors of these houses, as also the tops of the mounts round them, were covered
with loose, fine pebbles, and the whole was inclosed by large flat stones[167] of hard coral
rock, properly hewn, placed on their edges, one of which stones measured twelve feet in length,
two in breadth, and above one in thickness. One of the houses, contrary to what we had seen
before, was open on one side; and within it were two rude wooden busts of men, one near the
entrance, and the other farther in. On enquiring of the natives, who had followed us to the
ground, but durst not enter here, What these images were intended for? they made us as sensible
as we could wish, that they were merely memorials of some chiefs who had been buried there,
and not the representations of any deity. Such monuments, it should seem, are seldom raised;
for these had, probably, been erected several ages ago. We were told that the dead had been
buried in each of these houses, but no marks of this appeared. In one of them, was the carved
head of an Otaheite canoe, which had been driven ashore on their coast, and deposited here.
At the foot of the rising ground, was a large area, or grass-plot, with different trees planted
about it, amongst which were several of those called etoa, very large. These, as they resemble
the cypress, had a fine effect in such a place. There was, also, a row of low palms near one
of the houses, and behind it a ditch, in which lay a great number of old baskets.

[Footnote 167: The burying places of the chiefs at the Caroline Islands, are also inclosed
in this manner. See Lettres Edifiantes & Curiouses, tom. xv. p. 309.--D.]

After dinner, or rather after we had refreshed ourselves with some provisions which we had
brought with us from our ship, we made an excursion into the country, taking a pretty large
circuit, attended by one of the king's ministers. Our train was not great, as he would not
suffer the rabble to follow us. He also obliged all those whom we met upon our progress, to
sit down till we had passed, which is a mark of respect due only to their sovereigns. We found
by far the greatest part of the country cultivated, and planted with various sorts of productions;
and most of these plantations were fenced round. Some spots, where plantations had been formerly,
now produced nothing, lying fallow; and there were places that had never been touched, but
lay in a state of nature, and yet even these were useful, in affording them timber, as they
were generally covered with trees. We met with several large uninhabited houses, which, we
were told, belonged to the king. There were many public and well-beaten roads, and abundance
of foot-paths leading to every part of the island. The roads being good, and the country level,
travelling was very easy. It is remarkable, that when we were on the most elevated parts, at
least a hundred feet above the level of the sea, we often met with the same coral rock, which
is found at the shore, projecting above the surface, and perforated and cut into all those
inequalities which are usually seen in rocks that lie within the wash of the tide. And yet
these very spots, with hardly any soil upon them, were covered with luxuriant vegetation. We
were conducted to several little pools, and to some springs of water; but, in general, they
were either stinking or brackish, though recommended to us by the natives as excellent. The
former were mostly inland, and the latter near the shore of the bay, and below high-water mark,
so that tolerable water could be taken up from them, only when the tide was out.

When we returned from our walk, which was not till the dusk of the evening, our supper was
ready. It consisted of a baked hog, some fish, and yams, all excellently well cooked, after
the method of these islands. As there was nothing to amuse us after supper, we followed the
custom of the country, and lay down to sleep, our beds being mats spread upon the floor, and
cloth to cover us. The king, who had made himself very happy with some wine and brandy which
we had brought, slept in the same house, as well as several others of the natives. Long before
day-break, he and they all rose, and sat conversing by moon-light. The conversation, as might
well be guessed, turned wholly upon us; the king entertaining his company with an account of
what he had seen, or remarked. As soon as it was day, they dispersed, some one way, and some
another; but it was not long before they all returned, and, with them, several more of their
countrymen.

They now began to prepare a bowl of kava; and, leaving them so employed, I went to pay a visit
to Toobou, Captain Furneaux's friend, who had a house hard by, which, for size and neatness,
was exceeded by few in the place. As I had left the others, so I found here a company preparing
a morning draught. This chief made a present to me of a living hog, a baked one, a quantity
of yams, and a large piece of cloth. When I returned to the king, I found him, and his circle
of attendants, drinking the second bowl of kava. That being emptied, he told Omai, that he
was going presently to perform a mourning ceremony, called Tooge, on account of a son who had
been dead some time, and he desired us to accompany him. We were glad of the opportunity, expecting
to see somewhat new or curious.

The first thing the chief did, was to step out of the house, attended by two old women, and
put on a new suit of clothes, or rather a new piece of cloth, and, over it, an old ragged mat,
that might have served his great grandfather, on some such occasion. His servants, or those
who attended him, were all dressed in the same manner, excepting that none of their mats could
vie, in antiquity, with that of their master. Thus equipped, we marched off, preceded by about
eight or ten persons, in all the above habits of ceremony, each of them, besides, having a
small green bough about his neck. Poulaho held his bough in his hand till we drew near the
place of rendezvous, when he also put it about his neck. We now entered a small inclosure,
in which was a neat house, and we found one man sitting before it. As the company entered,
they pulled off the green branches from round their necks, and threw them away. The king having
first seated himself, the others sat down before him, in the usual manner. The circle increased,
by others dropping in, to the number of a hundred or upward, mostly old men, all dressed as
above described. The company being completely assembled, a large root of kava, brought by one
of the king's servants, was produced, and a bowl which contained four or five gallons. Several
persons now began to chew the root, and this bowl was made brimful of liquor. While it was
preparing, others were employed in making drinking cups of plantain leaves. The first cup that
was filled, was presented to the king, and he ordered it to be given to another person. The
second was also brought to him, which he drank, and the third was offered to me. Afterward,
as each cup was filled, the man who filled it, asked who was to have it? Another then named
the person; and to him it was carried. As the bowl grew low, the man who distributed the liquor
seemed rather at a loss to whom cups of it should be next sent, and frequently consulted those
who sat near him. This mode of distribution continued, while any liquor remained; and though
not half the company had a share, yet no one seemed dissatisfied. About half a dozen cups served
for all; and each, as it was emptied, was thrown down upon the ground, where the servants picked
it up, and carried it to be filled again. During the whole time, the chief and his circle sat
as was usually the case, with a great deal of gravity, hardly speaking a word to each other.

We had long waited in expectation, each moment, of seeing the mourning ceremony begin; when,
soon after the kava was drank out, to our great surprise and disappointment, they all rose
up and dispersed; and Poulaho told us, he was now ready to attend us to the ships. If this
was a mourning ceremony, it was a strange one. Perhaps it was the second, third, or fourth
mourning; or, which was not very uncommon, Omai might have misunderstood what Poulaho said
to him. For, excepting the change of dress, and the putting the green bough round their necks,
nothing seemed to have passed at this meeting, but what we saw them practise, too frequently,
every day.

[168]"We had seen the drinking of kava sometimes at the other islands, but, by no means, so
frequently as here, where it seems to be the only forenoon employment of the principal people.
The kava is a species of pepper, which they cultivate for this purpose, and esteem it a valuable
article, taking great care to defend the young plants from any injury; and it is commonly planted
about their houses. It seldom grows to more than a man's height, though I have seen some plants
almost double that. It branches considerably, with large heart-shaped leaves, and jointed stalks.
The root is the only part that is used at the Friendly Islands, which, being dug up, is given
to the servants that attend, who, breaking it in pieces, scrape the dirt off with a shell,
or bit of stick, and then each begins and chews his portion, which he spits into a piece of
plantain leaf. The person who is to prepare the liquor, collects all these mouthfuls; and puts
them into a large wooden dish, or bowl, adding as much water as will make it of a proper strength.
It is then well mixed up with the hands, and some loose stuff, of which mats are made, is thrown
upon the surface, which intercepts the fibrous part, and is wrung hard, to get as much liquid
out from it, as is possible. The manner of distributing it need not be repeated. The quantity
which is put into each cup is commonly about a quarter of a pint. The immediate effect of this
beverage is not perceptible on these people, who use it so frequently; but on some of ours,
who ventured to try it, though so nastily prepared, it had the same power as spirits have,
in intoxicating them; or, rather, it produced that kind of stupefaction, which is the consequence
of using opium, or other substances of that kind. It should be observed, at the same time,
that though these islanders have this liquor always fresh prepared, and I have seen them drink
it seven times before noon, it is, nevertheless, so disagreeable, or, at least, seems so, that
the greatest part of them cannot swallow it without making wry faces, and shuddering, afterward,"

[Footnote 168: The following account of kava, to the end of this paragraph, is inserted from
Mr Anderson's journal.--D.]

As soon as this mourning ceremony was over, we left Mooa, and set out to return to the ships.
While we rowed down the lagoon, or inlet, we met with two canoes coming in from fishing. Poulaho
ordered them to be called alongside our boat, and took from them every fish and shell they
had got. He, afterward, stopped two other canoes, and searched them, but they had nothing.
Why this was done I cannot say, for we had plenty provisions in the boat. Some of this fish
he gave to me, and his servants sold the rest on board the ship. As we proceeded down the inlet,
we overtook a large sailing canoe. Every person on board her, that was upon his legs when we
came up, sat down till we had passed; even the man who steered, though he could not manage
the helm, except in a standing posture.

Poulaho, and others, having informed me, that there was some excellent water on Onevy, a little
island, which lies about a league off the mouth of the inlet, and on the north side of the
eastern channel, we landed there, in order to taste it. But I found it to be as brackish as
most that we had met with. This island is quite in a natural state, being only frequented as
a fishing place, and has nearly the same productions as Palmerston's Island, with some etoa
trees. After leaving Onevy, where we dined, in our way to the ship, we took a view of a curious
coral rock, which seems to have been thrown upon the reef where it stands. It is elevated about
ten or twelve feet above the surface of the sea that surrounds it. The base it rests upon,
is not above one-third of the circumference of its projecting summit, which I judged to be
about one hundred feet, and is covered with etoa and pandanus trees.

When we got on board the ship, I found that every thing had been quiet during my absence, not
a theft having been committed, of which Feenou, and Futtafaihe, the king's brother, who had
undertaken the management of his countrymen, boasted not a little. This shews what power the
chiefs have, when they have the will to execute it; which we were seldom to expect, since,
whatever was stolen from us, generally, if not always, was conveyed to them.

The good conduct of the natives was of short duration; for, the next day, six or eight of them
assaulted some of our people, who were sawing planks. They were fired upon by the sentry, and
one was supposed to be wounded, and three others taken. These I kept confined till night, and
did not dismiss them without punishment. After this, they behaved with a little more circumspection,
and gave us much less trouble. This change of behaviour was certainly occasioned by the man
being wounded; for, before, they had only been told of the effect of fire-arms, but now they
had felt it. The repeated insolence of the natives, had induced me to order the musquets of
the sentries, to be loaded with small shot, and to authorise them to fire on particular occasions.
I took it for granted, therefore, that this man had only been wounded with small shot. But
Mr King and Mr Anderson, in an excursion into the country, met with him, and found indubitable
marks of his having been wounded, but not dangerously, with a musquet ball. I never could find
out how this musquet happened to be charged with ball; and there were people enough ready to
swear, that its contents were only small shot.

Mr Anderson's account of the excursion just mentioned, will fill up an interval of two days,
during which nothing of note happened at the ships: "Mr King and I went, on the 30th, along
with Futtafaihe, as visitors to his house, which is at Mooa, very near that of his brother
Poulaho. A short time after we arrived, a pretty large hog was killed; which is done by repeated
strokes on the head. The hair was then scraped off, very dexterously, with the sharp edge of
pieces of split bamboo, taking the entrails out at a large oval hole cut in the belly, by the
same simple instrument. Before this, they had prepared an oven, which is a large hole dug in
the earth, filled at the bottom with stones, about the size of the fist; over which a fire
is made till they are red hot. They took some of these stones, wrapt up in leaves of the bread-fruit
tree, and filled the hog's belly, stuffing in a quantity of leaves, to prevent their falling
out, and putting a plug of the same kind in the anus. The carcass was then placed on some sticks
laid across the stones, in a standing posture, and covered with a great quantity of plantain
leaves. After which, they dug up the earth all round; and having thus effectually closed the
oven, the operation of baking required no farther interference.

"In the mean time we walked about the country, but met with nothing remarkable, except a fiatooka
of one house, standing on an artificial mount, at least thirty feet high. A little on one side
of it, was a pretty large open area, and not far off, was a good deal of uncultivated ground,
which, on enquiring why it lay waste, our guides seemed to say, belonged to the fiatooka, (which
was Poulaho's,) and was not, by any means, to be touched. There was also, at no great distance,
a number of etoa trees, on which clung vast numbers of the large ternate bats, making a disagreeable
noise. We could not kill any, at this time, for want of musquets; but some that were got at
Annamooka, measured near three feet, when the wings were extended. On our return to Futtafaihe's
house, he ordered the hog that had been dressed, to be produced, with several baskets of baked
yams, and some cocoa-nuts. But we found, that, instead of his entertaining us, we were to entertain
him, the property of the feast being entirely transferred to us, as his guests, and we were
to dispose of it as we pleased. The same person who cleaned the hog in the morning, now cut
it up (but not before we desired him) in a very dextrous manner, with a knife of split bamboo,
dividing the several parts, and hitting the joints, with a quickness and skill that surprised
us very much. The whole was set down before us, though at least fifty pounds weight, until
we took a small piece away, and desired that they would share the rest amongst the people sitting
round. But it was not without a great many scruples they did that at last, and then they asked,
what particular persons they should give it to. However, they were very well pleased, when
they found that it was not contrary to any custom of ours; some carrying off the portion they
had received, and others eating it upon the spot. It was with great difficulty that we could
prevail upon Futtafaihe himself to eat a small bit."

"After dinner, we went with him, and five or six people, his attendants, toward the place where
Poulaho's mourning ceremony was transacted the last time we were at Mooa; but we did not enter
the inclosure. Every person who went with us, had the mat tied over his cloth, and some leaves
about the neck, as had been done on the former occasion; and when we arrived at a large open
boat-house, where a few people were, they threw away their leaves, sat down before it, and
gave their cheeks a few gentle strokes with the fist; after which they continued sitting, for
about ten minutes, with a very grave appearance, and then dispersed, without having spoken
a single word. This explained what Poulaho had mentioned about Tooge; though, from the operation
only lasting a few seconds, he had not been observed to perform it. And this seems to be only
a continuation of the mourning ceremony, by way of condolence. For, upon enquiring, on whose
account it was now performed, we were told, that it was for a chief who had died at Vavaoo
some time ago; that they had practised it ever since, and should continue to do so for a considerable
time longer."

"In the evening, we had a pig, dressed as the hog, with yams and cocoa-nuts, brought for supper;
and Futtafaihe finding that we did not like the scruples they had made before, to accept of
any part of the entertainment, asked us immediately to share it, and give it to whom we pleased.
When supper was over, abundance of cloth was brought for us to sleep in, but we were a good
deal disturbed, by a singular instance of luxury, in which their principal men indulge themselves,
that of being beat while they are asleep. Two women sat by Futtafaihe, and performed this operation,
which is called tooge tooge, by beating briskly on his body and legs, with both fists, as on
a drum, till he fell asleep, and continuing it the whole night, with some short intervals.
When once the person is asleep, they abate a little in the strength and quickness of the beating,
but resume it, if they observe any appearance of his awaking. In the morning, we found that
Futtafaihe's women relieved each other, and went to sleep by turns. In any other country, it
would be supposed, that such a practice would put an end to all rest, but here it certainly
acts as an opiate, and is a strong proof of what habit may effect. The noise of this, however,
was not the only thing that kept us awake; for the people, who passed the night in the house,
not only conversed amongst each other frequently, as in the day, but all got up before it was
light, and made a hearty meal on fish and yams, which were brought to them by a person, who
seemed to know very well the appointed time for this nocturnal refreshment."

"Next morning, July 1, we set out with Futtafaihe, and walked down the east side of the bay
to the point. The country, all along this side, is well cultivated, but, in general, not so
much inclosed as at Mooa; and amongst many other plantain fields that we passed, there was
one at least a mile long, which was in excellent order, every tree growing with great vigour.
We found, that, in travelling, Futtafaihe exercised a power, though by no means wantonly, which
pointed out the great authority of such principal men; or is, perhaps, only annexed to those
of the royal family. For he sent to one place for fish, to another for yams, and so on, at
other places, and all his orders were obeyed with the greatest readiness, as if he had been
absolute master of the people's property. On coming to the point, the natives mentioned something
of one, who, they said, had been fired at by some of our people; and, upon our wishing to see
him, they conducted us to a house, where we found a man who had been shot through the shoulder,
but not dangerously, as the ball had entered a little above the inner part of the collar-bone,
and passed out obliquely backward. We were sure, from the state of the wound, that he was the
person who had been fired at by one of the sentinels three days before, though positive orders
had been given, that none of them should load their pieces with any thing but small shot. We
gave some directions to his friends how to manage the wound, to which no application had been
made; and they seemed pleased, when we told them it would get well in a certain time. But,
on our going away, they asked us to send the wounded man some yams, and other things for food,
and, in such a manner, that we could not help thinking they considered it to be our duty to
support him till he should get well."

"In the evening we crossed the bay to our station, in a canoe, which Futtafaihe had exercised
his prerogative in procuring, by calling to the first that passed by. He had also got a large
hog at this place, and brought a servant from his house with a bundle of cloth, which he wanted
us to take with us, as a present from him. But the boat being small, we objected; and he ordered
it to be brought over to us the next day."

I had prolonged my stay at this island, on account of the approaching eclipse; but, on the
2d of July, on looking at the micrometer belonging to the board of longitude, I found some
of the rack work broken, and the instrument useless till repaired, which there was not time
to do before it was intended to be used. Preparing now for our departure, I got on board, this
day, all the cattle, poultry, and other animals, except such as were destined to remain. I
had designed to leave a turkey-cock and hen, but having now only two of each undisposed of,
one of the hens, through the ignorance of one of my people, was strangled, and died upon the
spot. I had brought three turkey-hens to these islands. One was killed as above-mentioned,
and the other by an useless dog belonging to one of the officers. These two accidents put it
out of my power to leave a pair here; and, at the same time, to carry the breed to Otaheite,
for which island they were originally intended. I was sorry, afterward, that I did not give
the preference to Tongataboo, as the present would have been of more value there than at Otaheite;
for the natives of the former island, I am persuaded, would have taken more pains to multiply
the breed.

The next day we took up our anchor, and moved the ships behind Pangimodoo, that we might be
ready to take the advantage of the first favourable wind, to get through the narrows. The king,
who was one of our company this day at dinner, I observed, took particular notice of the plates.
This occasioned me to make him an offer of one, either of pewter, or of earthenware. He chose
the first; and then began to tell us the several uses to which he intended to apply it. Two
of them are so extraordinary, that I cannot omit mentioning them. He said, that, whenever he
should have occasion to visit any of the other islands, he would leave this plate behind him
at Tongataboo, as a sort of representative, in his absence, that the people might pay it the
same obeisance they do to himself in person. He was asked, what had been usually employed for
this purpose before he got this plate? and we had the satisfaction of learning from him, that
this singular honour had hitherto been conferred on a wooden bowl in which he washed his hands.
The other extraordinary use to which he meant to apply it, in the room of his wooden bowl,
was to discover a thief. He said, that, when any thing was stolen, and the thief could not
be found out, the people were all assembled together before him, when he washed his hands in
water in this vessel; after which it was cleaned, and then the whole multitude advanced, one
after another, and touched it in the same manner as they touch his foot, when they pay him
obeisance. If the guilty person touched it, he died immediately upon the spot, not by violence,
but by the hand of Providence; and if any one refused to touch it, his refusal was a clear
proof that he was the man.

In the morning of the 5th, the day of the eclipse, the weather was dark and cloudy, with showers
of rain, so that we had little hopes of an observation. About nine o'clock, the sun broke out
at intervals for about half an hour; after which it was totally obscured, till within a minute
or two of the beginning of the eclipse. We were all at our telescopes, viz. Mr Bayly, Mr King,
Captain Clerke, Mr Bligh, and myself. I lost the observation, by not having a dark glass at
hand, suitable to the clouds that were continually passing over the sun; and Mr Bligh had not
got the sun into the field of his telescope; so that the commencement of the eclipse was only
observed by the other three gentlemen; and by them, with an uncertainty of several seconds,
as follows:--

                                 H.      M.      S.
   By Mr Bayly, at               11      46     23 1/2 }
      Mr King, at                11      46     28     }Apparent time.
      Capt. Clerke, at           11      47      5     }

Mr Bayly and Mr King observed, with the achromatic telescopes, belonging to the board of longitude,
of equal magnifying powers; and Captain Clerke observed with one of the reflectors. The sun
appeared at intervals, till about the middle of the eclipse, after which it was seen no more
during the day, so that the end could not be observed. The disappointment was of little consequence,
since the longitude was more than sufficiently determined, independently of this eclipse, by
lunar observations, which will be mentioned hereafter.

As soon as we knew the eclipse to be over, we packed up the instruments, took down the observatories,
and sent every thing on board that had not been already removed. As none of the natives had
taken the least notice or care of the three sheep allotted to Mareewagee, I ordered them to
be carried back to the ships. I was apprehensive, that, if I had left them here, they run great
risk of being destroyed by dogs. That animal did not exist upon this island, when I first visited
it in 1773; but I now found they had got a good many, partly from the breed then left by myself,
and partly from some, imported since that time, from an island not very remote, called Feejee.
The dogs, however, at present, had not found their way into any of the Friendly Islands, except
Tongataboo; and none but the chiefs there had, as yet, got possession of any.

Being now upon the eve of out departure from this island, I shall add some particulars about
it, and its productions, for which I am indebted to Mr Anderson. And, having spent as many
weeks there, as I had done days,[169] when I visited it in 1773, the better opportunities that
now occurred, of gaining more accurate information, and the skill of that gentleman, in directing
his enquiries, will, in some measure, supply the imperfection of my former account of this island.

[Footnote 169: From the 4th to the 7th of October.]

"Amsterdam, Tongataboo, or (as the natives also very frequently called it) Tonga, is about
twenty leagues in circuit, somewhat oblong, though by much broadest at the east end, and its
greatest length from east to west. The south shore, which I saw in 1773, is straight, and consists
of coral rocks, eight or ten feet high, terminating perpendicularly, except in some places,
where it is interrupted by small sandy beaches, on which, at low water, a range of black rocks
may be seen. The west end is not above five or six miles broad, but has a shore somewhat like
that of the south side, whereas the whole north side is environed with shoals and islands,
and the shore within them low and sandy. The east side or end is, most probably, like the south,
as the shore begins to assume a rocky appearance toward the north-east point, though not above
seven or eight feet high.

"The island may, with the greatest propriety, be called a low one, as the trees on the west
part, where we now lay at anchor, only appeared; and the only eminent part, which can be seen
from a ship, is the south-east point, though many gently rising and declining grounds are observable
by one who is ashore. The general appearance of the country does not afford that beautiful
kind of landscape that is produced from a variety of hills and valleys, lawns, rivulets, and
cascades; but, at the same time, it conveys to the spectator an idea of the most exuberant
fertility, whether we respect the places improved by art, or those still in a natural state,
both which yield all their vegetable productions with the greatest vigour, and perpetual verdure.
At a distance, the surface seems entirely clothed with trees of various sizes, some of which
are very large. But, above the rest, the tall cocoa-palms always raise their tufted heads,
and are far from being the smallest ornament to any country that produces them. The boogo,
which is a species of fig, with narrow pointed leaves, is the largest sized tree of the island;
and on the uncultivated spots, especially toward the sea, the most common bushes and small
trees are the pandanus, several sorts of hibiscus, the faitanoo, mentioned more than once in
the course of our voyage, and a few others. It ought also to be observed, that though the materials
for forming grand landscapes are wanting, there are many of what might, at least, be called
neat prospects, about the cultivated grounds and dwelling-places, but more especially about
the fiatookas, where sometimes art, and sometimes nature, has done much to please the eye.

"From the situation of Tongataboo, toward the tropic, the climate is more variable, than in
countries farther within that line, though, perhaps, that might be owing to the season of the
year, which was now the winter solstice. The winds are, for the most part, from some point
between south and east; and, when moderate, are commonly attended with fine weather. When they
blow fresher, the weather is often cloudy, though open; and, in such cases, there is frequently
rain. The wind sometimes veers to the N.E., N.N.E, or even N.N.W., but never lasts long, nor
blows strong from thence, though it is commonly accompanied by heavy rain, and close sultry
weather. The quick succession, of vegetables has been already mentioned; but I am not certain
that the changes of weather, by which it is brought about, are considerable enough to make
them perceptible to the natives as to their method of life, or rather that they should be very
sensible of the different seasons. This, perhaps, may be inferred from the state of their vegetable
productions, which are never so much affected, with respect to the foliage, as to shed that
all at once; for every leaf is succeeded by another as fast as it falls, which causes that
appearance of universal and continual spring found here.

"The basis of the island, as far as we know, is entirely a coral rock, which is the only sort
that presents itself on the shore. Nor did we see the least appearance of any other stone,
except a few small blue pebbles strewed about the fiatookas; and the smooth, solid black stone,
something like the lapis lydius, of which the natives make their hatchets. But these may, probably,
have been brought from other islands in the neighbourhood; for a piece of slaty, iron-coloured
stone was bought at one of them, which was never seen here. Though the coral projects in many
places above the surface, the soil is, in general, of a considerable depth. In all cultivated
places, it is commonly of a loose, black colour, produced seemingly, in a great measure, from
the rotten vegetables that are planted there. Underneath which is, very probably, a clayey
stratum; for a soil of that kind is often seen, both in the low and in the rising grounds,
but especially in several places toward the shore, where it is of any height, and, when broken
off, appears sometimes of a reddish, though oftener of a brownish yellow colour, and of a pretty
stiff consistence. Where the shore is low, the soil is commonly sandy, or rather composed of
triturated coral, which, however, yields bushes growing with great luxuriance, and is sometimes
planted, not unsuccessfully, by the natives.

"Of cultivated fruits, the principal are plantains, of which they have fifteen different sorts
or varieties; breadfruit; two sorts of fruit found at Otaheite, and known there under the names
of jambu and geevee; the latter a kind of plumb; and vast numbers of shaddocks, which, however,
are found as often in a natural state, as planted.

"The roots are yams, of which are two sorts; one black, and so large, that it often weighs
twenty or thirty pounds; the other white and long, seldom weighing a pound; a large root called
kappe; one not unlike our white potatoes, called mawhaha; the talo, or coccos of other places;
and another named jeejee.

"Besides vast numbers of cocoa-nut trees, they have three other sorts of palms, two of which
are very scarce. One of them is called beeoo, which grows almost as high as the cocoa-tree,
has very large leaves plaited like a fan, and clusters or bunches of globular nuts, not larger
than a small pistol ball, growing amongst the branches, with a very hard kernel, which is sometimes
eat. The other is a kind of cabbage-tree, not distinguishable from the cocoa, but by being
rather thicker, and by having its leaves more ragged. It has a cabbage three or four feet long;
at the top of which are the leaves, and at the bottom the fruit, which is scarcely two inches
long, resembling an oblong cocoa-nut, with an insipid tenacious kernel, called, by the natives,
neeoogoola, or red cocoa-nut, as it assumes a reddish cast when ripe. The third sort is called
ongo ongo, and much commoner, being generally found planted about their fiatookas. It seldom
grows higher than five feet, though sometimes to eight, and has a vast number of oval compressed
nuts, as large as a pippin, sticking immediately to the trunk, amongst the leaves, which are
not eat. There is plenty of excellent sugar-cane, which is cultivated; gourds, bamboo, turmeric,
and a species of fig, about the size of a small cherry, called matte, which, though wild, is
sometimes eat. But the catalogue of uncultivated plants is too large to be enumerated here.
Besides the pemphis decaspermum, mallococca, maba, and some other new genera, described by
Dr Forster,[170] there are a few more found here, which, perhaps, the different seasons of
the year, and his short stay, did not give him an opportunity to take notice of. Although it
did not appear, during our longer stay, that above a fourth part of the trees, and other plants,
were in flower; a circumstance absolutely necessary to enable one to distinguish the various kinds.

[Footnote 170: See his Characteres Generum Plantarum. Lond. 1776.]

"The only quadrupeds, besides hogs, are a few rats, and some dogs, which are not natives of
the place, but produced from some left by us in 1773, and by others got from Feejee. Fowls,
which are of a large breed, are domesticated here.

"Amongst the birds, are parrots, somewhat smaller than the common grey ones, of an indifferent
green on the back and wings, the tail bluish, and the rest of a sooty or chocolate brown; parroquets,
not larger than a sparrow, of a fine yellowish green, with bright azure on the crown of the
head, and the throat and belly red; besides another sort as large as a dove, with a blue crown
and thighs, the throat and under part of the head crimson, as also part of the belly, and the
rest a beautiful green.

"There are owls about the size of our common sort, but of a finer plumage; the cuckoos mentioned
at Palmerston's Island; king-fishers, about the size of a thrush, of a greenish blue, with
a white ring about the neck; and a bird of the thrush kind, almost as big, of a dull green
colour, with two yellow wattles at the base of the bill, which is the only singing one we observed
here; but it compensates a good deal for the want of others by the strength and melody of its
notes, which fill the woods at dawn, in the evening, and at the breaking up of bad weather.

The other land-birds are rails, as large as a pigeon, of a variegated grey colour, with a rusty
neck; a black sort with red eyes, not larger than a lark; large violet-coloured coots, with
red bald crowns; two sorts of fly-catchers; a very small swallow; and three sorts of pigeons,
one of which is le ramier cuivre of Mons. Sonnerat;[171] another, half the size of the common
sort, of a light green on the back and wings, with a red forehead; and a third, somewhat less,
of a purple brown, but whitish underneath.

[Footnote 171: Voyage à la Nouvelle Guinée, Tab. CII.]

"Of water-fowl, and such as frequent the sea, are the ducks seen at Annamooka, though scarce
here; blue and white herons; tropic birds; common noddies; white terns; a new species of a
leaden colour, with a black crest; a small bluish curlew; and a large plover, spotted with
yellow. Besides the large bats, mentioned before, there is also the common sort.

"The only noxious or disgusting animals of the reptile or insect tribe, are sea-snakes, three
feet long, with black and white circles alternately, often found on shore; some scorpions,
and centipedes. There are fine green guanoes, a foot and a half long; another brown and spotted
lizard about a foot long; and two other small sorts. Amongst the other insects are some beautiful
moths, butterflies, very large spiders, and others, making, in the whole, about fifty different
sorts.

The sea abounds with fish, though the variety is less than might be expected. The most frequent
sorts are mullets; several sorts of parrot-fish; silver-fish; old wives; some beautifully spotted
soles; leather-jackets; bonnetos, and albicores; besides the eels mentioned at Palmerston's
Island, some sharks, rays, pipe-fish, a sort of pike, and some curious devil-fish.

"The many reefs and shoals on the north side of the island, afford shelter for an endless variety
of shell-fish; amongst which are many that are esteemed precious in Europe. Such as the true
hammer oyster, of which, however, none could be obtained entire; a large indentated oyster,
and several others, but none of the common sort, panamas, cones, a sort of gigantic cockle,
found also in the East Indies, pearl shell oysters, and many others, several of which, I believe,
have been hitherto unknown to the most diligent enquirers after that branch of natural history.
There are likewise several sorts of sea-eggs, and many very fine star-fish, besides a considerable
variety of corals, amongst which are two red sorts, the one most elegantly branched, the other
tubulous. And there is no less variety amongst the crabs and cray-fish, which are very numerous.
To which may be added, several sorts of sponge, the sea-hare, holothuriae, and the like."

We were now ready to sail, but the wind being easterly, we had not sufficient day-light to
turn through the narrows, either with the morning, or with the evening flood, the one falling
out too early, and the other too late. So that, without a leading wind, we were under a necessity
of waiting two or three days.

I took the opportunity of this delay to be present at a public solemnity, to which the king
had invited us, when we went last to visit him, and which, he had informed us, was to be performed
on the 8th. With a view to this, he and all the people of note quitted our neighbourhood on
the 7th, and repaired to Mooa, where the solemnity was to be exhibited. A party of us followed
them the next morning. We understood, from what Poulaho had said to us, that his son and heir
was now to be initiated into certain privileges, amongst which was, that of eating with his
father, an honour he had not, as yet, been admitted to.

We arrived at Mooa about eight o'clock, and found the king, with a large circle of attendants
sitting before him, within an inclosure so small and dirty, as to excite my wonder that any
such could be found in that neighbourhood. They were intent upon their usual morning occupation,
in preparing a bowl of kava. As this was no liquor for us, we walked out to visit some of our
friends, and to observe what preparations might be making for the ceremony, which was soon
to begin. About ten o'clock, the people began to assemble in a large area, which is before
the malaee, or great house, to which we had been conducted the first time we visited Mooa.
At the end of a road, that opens into this area, stood some men with spears and clubs, who
kept constantly reciting or chanting short sentences in a mournful tone, which conveyed some
idea of distress, and as if they called for something. This was continued about an hour; and,
in the mean time, many people came down the road, each of them bringing a yam, tied to the
middle of a pole, which they laid down before the persons who continued repeating the sentences.
While this was going on, the king and prince arrived, and seated themselves upon the area;
and we were desired to sit down by them, but to pull off our hats, and to untie our hair. The
bearers of the yams being all come in, each pole was taken up between two men, who carried
it over their shoulders. After forming themselves into companies of ten or twelve persons each,
they marched across the place with a quick pace; each company headed by a man bearing a club
or spear, and guarded on the right by several others armed with different weapons. A man carrying
a living pigeon on a perch, closed the rear, of the procession, in which about two hundred
and fifty persons walked.

Omai was desired by me to ask the chief, to what place the yams were to be thus carried with
so much solemnity? but, as he seemed unwilling to give us the information we wanted, two or
three of us followed the procession contrary to his inclination. We found that they stopped
before a morai or fiatooka of one house standing upon a mount, which was hardly a quarter of
a mile from the place where they first assembled. Here we observed them depositing the yams,
and making them up into bundles; but for what purpose we could not learn. And, as our presence
seemed to give them uneasiness, we left them and returned to Poulaho, who told us we might
amuse ourselves by walking about, as nothing would be done for some time. The fear of losing
any part of the ceremony prevented our being long absent. When we returned to the king, he
desired me to order the boat's crew not to stir from the boat; for, as every thing would very
soon be taboo, if any of our people, or of their own, should be found walking about, they would
be knocked down with clubs, nay mateed, that is, killed. He also acquainted us, that we could
not be present at the ceremony, but that we should be conducted to a place, where we might
see every thing that passed. Objections were made to our dress. We were told, that, to qualify
us to be present, it was necessary that we should be naked as low as the breast, with our hats
off, and our hair untied. Omai offered to conform to these requisites, and began to strip;
other objections were then started; so that the exclusion was given to him equally with ourselves.

I did not much like this restriction, and, therefore, stole out to see what might now be going
forward. I found very few people stirring, except those dressed to attend the ceremony; some
of whom had in their hands small poles about four feet long, and to the underpart of these
were fastened two or three other sticks; not bigger than one's finger, and about six inches
in length. These men were going toward the morai just mentioned. I took the same road, and
was several times stopped by them, all crying out taboo. However, I went forward without much
regarding them, till I came in sight of the morai, and of the people who were sitting before
it. I was now urged very strongly to go back, and, not knowing what might be the consequence
of a refusal, I complied. I had observed, that the people who carried the poles passed this
morai, or what I may as well call temple; and guessing from this circumstance that something
was transacting beyond it, which might be worth looking at, I had thoughts of advancing by
making a round for this purpose; but I was so closely watched by three men, that I could not
put my design in execution. In order to shake these fellows off, I returned to the malaee,
where I had left the king, and from thence made an elopement a second time; but I instantly
met with the same three men, so that it seemed as if they had been ordered to watch my motions.
I paid no regard to what they said or did, till I came within sight of the king's principal
fiatooka or morai, which I have already described, before which a great number of men were
sitting, being the same persons whom I had just before seen pass by the other morai, from which
this was but a little distant. Observing that I could watch the proceedings of this company
from the king's plantation, I repaired thither very much to the satisfaction of those who attended
me.

As soon as I got in, I acquainted the gentlemen who had come with me from the ships, with what
I had seen; and we took a proper station to watch the result. The number of people at the fiatooka
continued to increase for some time; and, at length, we could see them quit their sitting-posture,
and march off in procession. They walked in pairs, one after another, every pair carrying between
them one of the small poles above-mentioned on their shoulders. We were told, that the small
pieces of sticks fastened to the poles were yams; so that probably they were meant to represent
this root emblematically. The hindmost man of each couple, for the most part, placed one of
his hands to the middle of the pole, as if, without this additional support, it were not strong
enough to carry the weight that hung to it, and under which they all seemed to bend as they
walked. This procession consisted of one hundred and eight pairs, and all or most of them men
of rank. They came close by the fence behind which we stood, so that we had a full view of them.

Having waited here till they had all passed, we then repaired to Poulaho's house, and saw him
going out. We could not be allowed to follow him, but were forthwith conducted to the place
allotted to us, which was behind a fence, adjoining to the area of the fiatooka, where the
yams had been deposited in the forenoon. As we were not the only people who were excluded from
being publicly present at this ceremony, but allowed to peep from behind the curtain, we had
a good deal of company; and I observed, that all the other inclosures round the place were
filled with people. And yet all imaginable care seemed to be taken, that they should see as
little as possible; for the fences had not only been repaired that morning, but in many places
raised higher than common, so that the tallest man could not look over them. To remedy this
defect in our station; we took the liberty to cut holes in the fence with our knives, and by
this means we could see pretty distinctly every thing that was transacting on the other side.

On our arrival at our station, we found two or three hundred people sitting on the grass, near
the end of the road that opened into the area of the morai, and the number continually increased
by others joining them. At length, arrived a few men carrying some small poles, and branches
or leaves of the cocoa-nut tree; and, upon their first appearance, an old man seated himself
in the road and, with his face toward them, pronounced a long oration in a serious tone. He
then retired back, and the others advancing to the middle of the area, began to erect a small
shed, employing for that purpose the materials above-mentioned. When they had finished their
work, they all squatted down for a moment before it, then rose up, and retired to the rest
of the company. Soon after came Poulaho's son, preceded by four or five men, and they seated
themselves a little aside from the shed, and rather behind it. After them, appeared twelve
or fourteen women of the first rank, walking slowly in pairs, each pair carrying between them
a narrow piece of white cloth extended, about two or three yards in length. These marched up
to the prince, squatted down before him, and, having wrapped some of the pieces of the cloth
they had brought round his body, they rose up, and retired in the same order to some distance
on his left, and there seated themselves. Poulaho himself soon made his appearance, preceded
by four men, who walked two and two abreast, and sat down on his son's left hand, about twenty
paces from him. The young prince then quitting his first position, went and sat down under
the shed with, his attendants; and a considerable number more placed themselves on the grass
before this royal canopy. The prince himself sat facing the people, with his back to the morai.
This being done, three companies, of ten or a dozen men in each, started up from amongst the
large crowd a little after each other, and running hastily to the opposite side of the area,
sat down for a few seconds; after which they returned in the same manner to their former stations.
To them succeeded two men, each of whom held a small green branch in his hand, who got up and
approached the prince, sitting down for a few seconds three different times as they advanced;
and then, turning their backs, retired in the same manner, inclining their branches to each
other as they sat. In a little time, two more repeated this ceremony.

The grand procession which I had seen march off from the other morai, now began to come in.
To judge of the circuit they had made from the time they had been absent, it must have been
pretty large. As they entered the area, they marched up to the right of the shed, and, having
prostrated themselves on the grass, deposited their pretended burthens (the poles above-mentioned),
and faced round to the prince. They then rose up, and retired in the same order, closing their
hands, which they held before them, with the most serious aspect, and seated themselves along
the front of the area. During all the time that this numerous band were coming in, and depositing
their poles, three men who sat under the shed with the prince, continued pronouncing separate
sentences in a melancholy tone. After this, a profound silence ensued for a little time, and
then a man, who sat in the front of the area, began an oration (or prayer), during which, at
several different times, he went and broke one of the poles, which had been brought in by those
who had walked in procession. When he had ended, the people sitting before the shed separated,
to make a lane, through which the prince and his attendants passed, and the assembly broke up.

Some of our party, satisfied with what they had already seen, now returned to the ships; but
I, and two or three more of the officers, remained at Mooa to see the conclusion of the solemnity,
which was not to be till the next day, being desirous of omitting no opportunity, which might
afford any information about the religious or the political institutions of this people. The
small sticks or poles, which had been brought into the area by those who walked in procession,
being left lying on the ground, after the crowd had dispersed, I went and examined them. I
found, that to the middle of each, two or three small sticks were tied, as has been related.
Yet we had been repeatedly told by the natives, who stood near us, that they were young yams,
insomuch that some of our gentlemen believed them, rather than their own eyes. As I had the
demonstration of my senses to satisfy me, that they were not real yams, it is clear, that we
ought to have understood them, that they were only the artificial representations of these roots.

Our supper was got ready about seven o'clock. It consisted of fish and yams. We might have
had pork also, but we did not choose to kill a large hog, which the king had given to us for
that purpose. He supped with us, and drank pretty freely of brandy and water, so that he went
to bed with a sufficient dose. We passed the night in the same house with him and several of
his attendants.

About one or two o'clock in the morning they waked, and conversed for about an hour, and then
went to sleep again. All, but Poulaho himself, rose at day-break, and went, I know not whither.
Soon after a woman, one of those who generally attended upon the chief, came in, and enquired
where he was. I pointed him out to her, and she immediately sat down by him, and began the
same operation, which Mr Anderson had seen practised upon Futtafaihe, tapping of beating gently,
with her clinched fists, on his thighs. This, instead of prolonging his sleep, as was intended,
had the contrary effect; however, though he awaked, he continued to lie down.

Omai and I now went to visit the prince, who had parted from us early in the evening. For he
did not lodge with the king, but in apartments of his own, or at least such as had been allotted
to him at some distance from his father's house. We found him with a circle of boys or youths
about his own age, sitting before him, and an old woman and an old man, who seemed to have
the care of him, sitting behind. There were others, both men and women, employed about their
necessary affairs in different departments, who probably belonged to his household.

From the prince we returned to the king. By this time he had got up, and had a crowded circle
before him, composed chiefly of old men. While a large bowl of kava was preparing, a baked
hog and yarns, smoking hot, were brought in; the greatest part of which fell to our share,
and was very acceptable to the boat's crew; for these people eat very little in a morning,
especially the kava-drinkers. I afterward walked out, and visited several other chiefs, and
found that all of them were taking their morning draught, or had already taken it. Returning
to the king, I found him asleep in a small retired hut, with two women tapping on his breech.
About eleven o'clock he arose again, and then some fish and yams, which tasted as if they had
been stewed in cocoa-nut milk, were brought to him. Of these he eat a large portion, and lay
down once more to sleep. I now left him, and carried to the prince a present of cloth, beads,
and other articles, which I had brought with me from the ship for the purpose. There was a
sufficient quantity of cloth to make him a complete suit, and he was immediately decked out
with it. Proud of his dress, he first went to shew himself to his father, and then conducted
me to his mother, with whom were about ten or a dozen other women of a respectable appearance.
Here the prince changed his apparel, and made me a present of two pieces of the cloth manufactured
in the island. By this time it was past noon, when, by appointment, I repaired to the palace
to dinner. Several of our gentlemen had returned this morning from the ships, and we were all
invited to the feast, which was presently served up, and consisted of two pigs and yams. I
roused the drowsy monarch to partake of what he had provided for our entertainment. In the
mean time, two mullets, and some shellfish, were brought to him, as I supposed, for his separate
portion. But he joined it to our fare, sat down with us, and made a hearty meal.

When dinner was over, we were told that the ceremony would soon begin, and were strictly enjoined
not to walk out. I had resolved, however, to peep no longer from behind the curtain, but to
mix with the actors themselves, if possible. With this view, I stole out from the plantation,
and walked toward the morai, the scene of the solemnity. I was several times desired to go
back by people whom I met, but I paid no regard to them, and they suffered me to pass on. When
I arrived at the morai, I found a number of men seated on the side of the area, on each side
of the road that leads up to it. A few were sitting on the opposite side of the area, and two
men in the middle of it, with their, faces turned to the morai. When I got into the midst of
the first company, I was desired to sit down, which I accordingly did. Where I sat, there were
lying a number of small bundles or parcels, composed of cocoa-nut leaves, and tied to sticks
made into the form of hand-barrows. All the information I could get about them was, that they
were taboo. Our number kept continually increasing, every one coming from the same quarter.
From time to time, one or another of the company turned himself to those who were coming to
join us, and made a short speech, in which I could remark that the word arekee, that is, king,
was generally mentioned. One man said something that produced bursts of hearty laughter from
all the crowd; others of the speakers met with public applause. I was several times desired
to leave the place, and, at last, when they found that I would not stir, after some seeming
consultation, they applied to me to uncover my shoulders as theirs were. With this request
I complied, and then they seemed to be no longer uneasy at my presence.

I sat a full hour, without any thing more going forward, beside what I have mentioned. At length
the prince, the women, and the king, all came in, as they had done the day before. The prince
being placed under the shed, after his father's arrival, two men, each carrying a piece of
mat, came repeating something seriously, and put them about him. The assembled people now began
their operations; and first, three companies ran backward and forward across the area, as described
in the account of the proceedings of the former day. Soon after, the two men, who sat in the
middle of the area, made a short speech or prayer, and then the whole body, amongst whom I
had my place, started up, and ran and seated themselves before the shed under which the prince,
and three or four men, were sitting. I was now partly under the management of one of the company,
who seemed very assiduous to serve me. By his means, I was placed in such a situation, that
if I had been allowed to make use of my eyes, nothing that passed could have escaped me. But
it was necessary to sit with down-cast looks, and demure as maids.

Soon after the procession came in, as on the day before; each two persons bearing on their
shoulders a pole, round the middle of which, a cocoa-nut leaf was plaited. These were deposited
with ceremonies similar to those observed on the preceding day. This first procession was followed
by a second; the men composing which, brought baskets, such as are usually employed by this
people to carry provisions in, and made of palm leaves. These were followed, by a third procession,
in which were brought different kinds of small fish, each fixed at the end of a forked stick.
The baskets were carried up to an old man, whom I took to be the chief priest, and who sat
on the prince's right hand, without the shed. He held each in his hand, while he made a short
speech or prayer, then laid it down, and called for another, repeating the same words as before;
and thus he went through the whole number of baskets. The fish were presented, one by one,
on the forked sticks, as they came in, to two men, who sat on the left, and who, till now,
held green branches in their hands. The first fish they laid down on their right, and the second
on their left. When the third was presented, a stout-looking man, who sat behind the other
two, reached his arm over between them, and made a snatch at it; as also did the other two
at the very same time. Thus they seemed to contend for every fish that was presented; but as
there were two hands against one, besides the advantage of situation, the man behind got nothing
but pieces; for he never quitted his bold, till the fish was torn out of his hand, and what
little remained in it he shook out behind him. The others laid what they got on the right and
left alternately. At length, either by accident or design, the man behind got possession of
a whole fish, without either of the other two so much as touching it. At this the word mareeai,
which signifies very good or well done, was uttered in a low voice throughout the whole crowd.
It seemed that he had performed now all that was expected from him, for he made no attempt
upon the few fish that came after. These fish, as also the baskets, were all delivered, by
the persons who brought them in, sitting; and, in the same order and manner, the small poles,
which the first procession carried, had been laid upon the ground.

The last procession being closed, there was some speaking or praying by different persons.
Then, on some signal being given, we all started up, ran several paces to the left, and sat
down with our backs to the prince, and the few who remained with him; I was desired not to
look behind me. However, neither this injunction nor the remembrance of Lot's wife, discouraged
me from facing about. I now saw that the prince had turned his face to the morai. But this
last movement had brought so many people between him and me, that I could not perceive what
was doing. I was afterward assured, that, at this very time, the prince was admitted to the
high honour of eating with his father, which, till now, had never been permitted to him; a
piece of roasted yam being presented to each of them for this purpose; This was the more probable,
as we had been told before-hand, that this was to happen during the solemnity, and as all the
people turned their backs to them at this time, which they always do when their monarch eats.

After some little time, we all faced about, and formed a semicircle before the prince, leaving
a large open space between us. Presently there appeared some men coming toward us, two and
two, bearing large sticks or poles upon their shoulders, making a noise that might be called
singing, and waving their hands as they advanced. When they had got close up to us, they made
a shew of walking very fast, without proceeding a single step. Immediately after, three or
four men started up from the crowd, with large sticks in their hands, who ran toward those
newcomers. The latter instantly threw down the poles from their shoulders, and scampered off;
and the others attacked the poles, and, having beat them most unmercifully, returned to their
places. As the pole-bearers ran off, they gave the challenge that is usual here in wrestling;
and, not long after, a number of stout fellows came from the same quarter, repeating the challenge
as they advanced. These were opposed by a party who came from the opposite side almost at the
same instant. The two parties paraded about the area for a few minutes, and then retired, each
to their own side. After this, there were wrestling and boxing-matches for about half an hour.
Then two men seated themselves before the prince, and made speeches, addressed, as I thought,
entirely to him. With this the solemnity ended, and the whole assembly broke up.

I now went and examined the several baskets which had been presented; a curiosity that I was
not allowed before to indulge, because every thing was then taboo. But the solemnity being
now over, they became simply what I found them to be, empty baskets. So that, whatever they
were supposed to contain, was emblematically represented. And so, indeed, was every other thing
which had been brought in procession, except the fish.

We endeavoured in vain to find out the meaning, not only of the ceremony in general, which
is called Natche, but of its different parts. We seldom got any other answer to our enquiries,
but taboo, a word which, I have before observed, is applied to many other things. But as the
prince was evidently the principal person concerned in it, and as we had been told by the king
ten days before the celebration of the Natche, that the people would bring in yams for him
and his son to eat together, and as he even described some part of the ceremony, we concluded,
from what he had then said, and from what we now saw, that an oath of allegiance, if I may
so express myself, or solemn promise, was on this occasion made to the prince, as the immediate
successor to the regal dignity, to stand by him, and to furnish him with the several articles
that were here emblematically represented. This seems the more probable, as all the principal
people of the island, whom we had ever seen, assisted in the processions. But, be this as it
may, the whole was conducted with a great deal of mysterious solemnity; and that there was
a mixture of religion in the institution was evident, not only from the place where it was
performed, but from the manner of performing it. Our dress and deportment had never been called
in question upon any former occasion whatever. Now, it was expected that we should be uncovered
as low as the waist; that our hair should be loose, and flowing over our shoulders; that we
should, like themselves, sit cross-legged; and, at times, in the most humble posture, with
down-cast eyes, and hands locked together; all which requisites were most devoutly observed
by the whole assembly. And, lastly, every one was excluded from the solemnity; but the principal
people, and those who assisted in the celebration. All these circumstances were to me a sufficient
testimony, that, upon this occasion, they consider themselves as acting under the immediate
inspection of a Supreme Being;

The present Natche may be considered, from the above account of it, as merely figurative. For
the small quantity of yams, which we saw the first day, could not be intended as a general
contribution; and, indeed, we were given to understand, that they were a portion consecrated
to the Otooa, or Divinity. But we were informed, that, in about three months, there would be
performed, on the same account, a far more important and grander solemnity; on which occasion,
not only the tribute of Tongataboo, but that of Hepaee, Vavaoo, and of all the other islands;
would be brought to the chief, and confirmed more awfully, by sacrificing ten human victims
from amongst the inferior sort of people. A horrid solemnity indeed! and which is a most significant
instance of the influence of gloomy and ignorant superstition, over the minds of one of the
most benevolent and humane nations upon earth. On enquiring into the reasons of so barbarous
a practice, they only said, that it was a necessary part of the Natche, and that, if they omitted
it, the Deity would certainly destroy their king.

Before the assembly broke up, the day was far spent; and as we were at some distance from the
ships, and had an intricate navigation to go through, we were in haste to set out from Mooa.
When I took leave of Poulaho, he pressed me much to stay till the next day, to be present at
a funeral ceremony. The wife of Mareewagee, who was mother-in-law to the king, had lately died,
and her corpse had, on account of the Natche, been carried on board a canoe that lay in the
lagoon. Poulaho told me, that, as soon as he had paid the last offices to her, he would attend
me to Eooa, but, if I did not wait, he would follow me thither. I understood at the same time,
that, if it had not been for the death of this woman, most of the chiefs would have accompanied
us to that island, where, it seems, all of them have possessions. I would gladly have waited
to see this ceremony also, had not the tide been now favourable for the ships to get through
the narrows. The wind besides, which, for several days past, had been very boisterous, was
now moderate and settled, and to have lost this opportunity, might have detained us a fortnight
longer. But what was decisive against my waiting, we understood that the funeral ceremonies
would last five days, which was too long a time, as the ships lay in such a situation, that
I could not get to sea at pleasure. I, however, assured the king, that, if we did not sail,
I should certainly visit him again the next day. And so we all took leave of him, and set out
for the ships, where we arrived about eight o'clock in the evening.

I had forgot to mention, that Omai was present at this second day's ceremony as well as myself,
but we were not together, nor did I know that he was there, till it was almost over. He afterward
told me, that, as soon as the king saw that I had stolen out from the plantation, he sent several
people, one after another, to desire me to come back. Probably, these messengers were not admitted
to the place where I was, for I saw nothing of them. At last, intelligence was brought to the
chief, that I had actually stripped, in conformity to their custom; and then he told Omai,
that he might be present also, if he would comply with all necessary forms. Omai had no objection,
as nothing was required of him, but to conform to the custom of his own country. Accordingly,
he was furnished with a proper dress, and appeared at the ceremony as one of the natives. It
is likely, that one reason of our being excluded at first, was an apprehension, that we would
not submit to the requisites to qualify us to assist.

While I was attending the Natche at Mooa, I ordered the horses, bull and cow, and goats, to
be brought thither, thinking that they would be safer there, under the eyes of the chiefs,
than at a place that would be, in a manner, deserted, the moment after our departure. Besides
the above-mentioned animals, we left with our friends here, a young boar, and three young sows,
of the English breed. They were exceedingly desirous of them, judging, no doubt, that they
would greatly improve their own breed, which is rather small. Feenou also got from us two rabbits,
a buck and a doe; and, before we sailed, we were told that young ones had been already produced.
If the cattle succeed, of which I make no doubt, it will be a vast acquisition to these islands;
and as Tongataboo is a fine level country, the horses cannot but be useful.

On the 10th, at eight o'clock in the morning, we weighed anchor, and, with a steady gale at
S.E., turned through the channel, between the small isles called Makkahaa and Monooafai, it
being much wider than the channel between the last-mentioned island and Pangimodoo. The flood
set strong in our favour, till we were the length of the channel leading up to the lagoon,
where the flood from the eastward meets that from the west. This, together with the indraught
of the lagoon, and of the shoals before it, causeth strong ripplings and whirlpools. To add
to these dangers, the depth of water in the channel exceeds the length of a cable; so that
there is no anchorage, except close to the rocks, where we meet with forty and forty-five fathoms,
over a bottom of dark sand. But then, here, a ship would be exposed to the whirlpools. This
frustrated the design which I had formed, of coming to an anchor as soon as we were through
the narrows, and of making an excursion to see the funeral. I chose rather to lose that ceremony,
than to leave the ships in a situation in which I did not think them safe. We continued to
ply to windward, between the two tides, without either gaining or losing an inch, till near
high water, when, by a favourable slant, we got into the eastern tide's influence. We expected,
there, to find the ebb to run strong to the eastward in our favour, but it proved so inconsiderable,
that, at any other time, it would not have been noticed. This informed us, that most of the
water which flows into the lagoon, comes from the N.W., and returns the same way. About five
in the afternoon, finding that we could not get to sea before it was dark, I came to an anchor,
under the shore of Tongataboo, in forty-five fathoms water, and about two cables length from
the reef, that runs along that side of the island. The Discovery dropped anchor under our stern;
but before the anchor took hold, she drove off the bank, and did not recover it till after
midnight.

We remained at this station till eleven o'clock the next day, when we weighed, and plyed to
the eastward. But it was ten at night before we weathered the east end of the island, and were
enabled to stretch away for Middleburgh, or Eooa, (as it is called by the inhabitants,) where
we anchored, at eight o'clock in the next morning, in forty fathoms water, over a bottom of
sand, interspersed with coral rocks; the extremes of the island extending from N. 40° E., to
S. 22° W.; the high land of Eooa, S. 45° E.; and Tongataboo, from N. 70° W., to N. 19° W.,
distant about half a mile from the shore, being nearly the same place where I had my station
in 1773, and then named by me, English Road.

We had no sooner anchored, than Taoofa, the chief, and several other natives, visited as on
board, and seemed to rejoice much at our arrival. This Taoofa[172] had been my Tayo, when I
was here, during my last voyage; consequently, we were not strangers to each other. In a little
time, I went ashore with him, in search of fresh water, the procuring of which was the chief
object that brought me to Eooa. I had been told at Tongataboo, that there was here a stream,
running from the hills into the sea; but this was not the case now. I was first conducted to
a brackish spring, between low and high water mark, amongst rocks, in the cove where we landed,
and where no one would ever have thought of looking for what we wanted. However, I believe
the water of this spring might be good, were it possible to take it up before the tide mixes
with it. Finding that we did not like this, our friends took us a little way into the island,
where, in a deep chasm, we found very good water; which, at the expence of some time and trouble,
might be conveyed down to the shore, by means of spouts or troughs, that could be made with
plantain leaves, and the stem of the tree. But, rather than to undertake that tedious task,
I resolved to rest contented with the supply the ships had got at Tongataboo.

[Footnote 172: In the account of Captain Cook's former voyage, he calls the only chief he then
met with, at this place, Tioony.--D.]

Before I returned on board, I set on foot a trade for hogs and yams. Of the former, we could
procure but few; but of the latter, plenty. I put ashore, at this island, the ram and two ewes,
of the Cape of Good Hope breed of sheep, entrusting them to the care of Taoofa, who seemed
proud of his charge. It was fortunate, perhaps, that Mareewagee, to whom I had given them,
as before mentioned, slighted the present. Eooa not having, as yet, got any dogs upon it, seems
to be a properer place than Tongataboo for the rearing of sheep.

As we lay at anchor, this island bore a very different aspect from any we had lately seen,
and formed a most beautiful landscape. It is higher than any we had passed since leaving New
Zealand, (as Kao may justly be reckoned an immense rock,) and from its top, which is almost
flat, declines very gently toward the sea. As the other isles of this cluster are level, the
eye can discover nothing but the trees that cover them; but here the land, rising gently upward,
presents us with an extensive prospect, where groves of trees are only interspersed at irregular
distances, in beautiful disorder, and the rest covered with grass. Near the shore, again, it
is quite shaded with various trees, amongst which are the habitations of the natives; and to
the right of our station, was one of the most extensive groves of cocoa-palms we had ever seen.

The 13th, in the afternoon, a party of us made an excursion to the highest part of the island,
which was a little to the right of our ships, in order to have a full view of the country.
About half way up, we crossed a deep valley, the bottom and sides of which, though composed
of hardly any thing but coral rock, were clothed with trees. We were now about two or three
hundred feet above the level of the sea, and yet, even here, the coral was perforated into
all the holes and inequalities which usually diversify the surface of this substance within
the reach of the tide. Indeed, we found the same coral till we began to approach the summits
of the highest hills; and it was remarkable, that these were chiefly composed of a yellowish,
soft, sandy stone. The soil there, is, in general, a reddish clay, which, in many places, seemed
to be very deep. On the most elevated part of the whole island, we found a round platform,
or mount of earth, supported by a wall of coral stones; to bring which to such a height, must
have cost much labour. Our guides told us, that this mount had been erected by order of their
chief; and that they, sometimes, meet there to drink/kava. They called it etchee; by which
name, an erection which we had seen at Tongataboo, as already mentioned, was distinguished.
Not many paces from it, was a spring, of excellent water; and, about a mile lower down, a running
stream, which, we were told, found its way to the sea when the rains were copious. We also
met with water in many little holes; and, no doubt, great plenty might be found by digging.

From the elevation to which we had ascended, we had a full view of the whole island, except
a part of the south point. The S.E. side, from which the highest hills we were now upon, are
not far distant, rises with very great inequalities, immediately from the sea, so that the
plains and meadows, of which there are here some of great extent, lie all on the N.W. side;
and as they are adorned with tufts of trees, intermixed with plantations, they form a very
beautiful landscape in every point of view. While I was surveying this delightful prospect,
I could not help flattering myself with the pleasing idea, that some future navigator may,
from the same station, behold these meadows stocked with cattle, brought to these islands by
the ships of England; and that the completion of this single benevolent purpose, independently
of all other considerations, would sufficiently mark to posterity, that our voyages had not
been useless to the general interests of humanity. Besides the plants common on the other neighbouring
islands, we found, on the height, a species of acrosticum, melastoma, and fern tree, with a
few other ferns and plants not common lower down.

Our guides informed us, that all, or most of the land, on this island, belonged to the great
chiefs of Tongataboo, and that the inhabitants were only tenants or vassals to them. Indeed,
this seemed to be the case at all the other neighbouring isles, except Annamooka, where there
were some chiefs, who seemed to act with some kind of independence. Omai, who was a great favourite
with Feenou, and these people in general, was tempted with the offer of being made chief of
this island, if he would have staid amongst them; and it is not clear to me, that he would
not have been glad to stay, if the scheme had met with my approbation. I own I did disapprove
of it, but not because I thought that Omai would do better for himself in his own native isle.

On returning from my country expedition, we were informed that a party of the natives had,
in the circle where our people traded, struck one of their own countrymen with a club, which
laid bare, or as others said, fractured his skull, and then broke his thigh with the same,
when our men interposed. He had no signs of life when carried to a neighbouring house, but
afterward recovered a little. On my asking the reason of so severe a treatment, we were informed,
that he had been discovered in a situation rather indelicate, with a woman who was taboo'd.
We, however, understood, that she was no otherwise taboo'd, than by belonging to another person,
and rather superior in rank to her gallant. From this circumstance we had an opportunity of
observing how these people treat such infidelities. But the female sinner has, by far, the
smaller share of punishment for her misdemeanor, as they told us that she would only receive
a slight beating.

The next morning, I planted a pine-apple, and sowed the seeds of melons and other vegetables,
in the chief's plantation. I had some encouragement, indeed, to flatter myself, that my endeavours
of this kind would not be fruitless; for, this day, there was served up at my dinner, a dish
of turnips, being the produce of the seeds I had left here during my last voyage.

I had fixed upon the 15th for sailing, till Taoofa pressed me to stay a day or two longer,
to receive a present he had prepared for me. This reason, and the daily expectation of seeing
some of our friends from Tongataboo, induced me to defer my departure.

Accordingly, the next day I received the chiefs present, consisting of two small heaps of yams,
and some fruit, which seemed to be collected by a kind of contribution, as at the other isles.
On this occasion, most of the people of the island had assembled at the place; and, as we had
experienced on such numerous meetings amongst their neighbours, gave us not a little trouble
to prevent them from pilfering whatever they could lay their hands upon. We were entertained
with cudgelling, wrestling, and boxing-matches; and, in the latter, both male and female combatants
exhibited. It was intended to have finished the shew with the bomai, or night dance, but an
accident either put a total stop to it, or, at least, prevented any of us from staying ashore
to see it. One of my people, walking a very little way, was surrounded by twenty or thirty
of the natives, who knocked him down, and stripped him of every thing he had on his back. On
hearing of this, I immediately seized two canoes, and a large hog, and insisted on Taoofa's
causing the clothes to be restored, and on the offenders being delivered up to me. The chief
seemed much concerned at what had happened, and forthwith took the necessary steps to satisfy
me. This affair so alarmed the assembled people, that most of them fled. However, when they
found that I took no other measures to revenge the insult, they returned. It was not long before
one of the offenders was delivered up to me, and a shirt and a pair of trowsers restored. The
remainder of the stolen goods not coming in before night, I was under a necessity of leaving
them to go aboard; for the sea run so high, that it was with the greatest difficulty the boats
could get out of the creek with day-light, much less in the dark.

The next morning I landed again, having provided myself with a present for Taoofa, in return
for what he had given me. As it was early, there were but few people at the landing-place,
and those few not without their fears. But on my desiring Omai to assure them that we meant
no harm; and, in confirmation of this assurance, having restored the canoes and released the
offender, whom they had delivered up to me, they resumed their usual gaiety; and presently
a large circle was formed, in which the chief, and all the principal men of the island, took
their places. The remainder of the clothes were now brought in; but as they had been torn off
the man's back by pieces, they were not worth carrying on board. Taoofa, on receiving my present,
shared it with three or four other chiefs, keeping only a small part for himself. This present
exceeded their expectation so greatly, that one of their chiefs, a venerable old man, told
me, that they did not deserve it, considering how little they had given to me, and the ill
treatment one of my people had met with. I remained with them till they had finished their
bowl of kava; and having then paid for the hog, which I had taken the day before, returned
on board, with Taoofa, and one of Poulaho's servants, by whom I sent, as a parting mark of
my esteem and regard for that chief, a piece of bar iron, being as valuable a present as any
I could make to him.

Soon after, we weighed, and with a light breeze at S.E., stood out to sea; and then Tafooa,
and a few other natives, that were in the ship, left us. On heaving up the anchor, we found
that the cable had suffered considerably by the rocks; so that the bottom, in this road, is
not to be depended upon. Besides this, we experienced, that a prodigious swell rolls in there
from the S.W.

We had not been long under sail, before we observed a sailing canoe coming from Tongataboo,
and entering the creek before which we had anchored. Same hours after, a small canoe, conducted
by four men, came off to us. For, as we had but little wind, we were still at no great distance
front the land. These men told us, that the sailing canoe, which we had seen arrive from Tongataboo,
had brought orders to the people of Eooa, to furnish us with a certain number of hogs; and
that, in two days, the king and other chiefs, would be with us. They, therefore, desired we
would return to our former station. There was no reason to doubt the truth of what these men
told us. Two of them had actually come from Tongataboo in the sailing canoe; and they had no
view in coming off to us, but to give this intelligence. However, as we were now clear of the
land, it was not a sufficient inducement to bring me back, especially as we had already on
board a stock of fresh provisions, sufficient, in all probability, to last during our passage
to Otaheite. Besides Taoofa's present, we had got a good quantity of yams at Eooa, in exchange
chiefly for small nails. Our supply of hogs was also considerably increased there; though,
doubtless, we should have got many more, if the chiefs of Tongataboo had been with us, whose
property they mostly were. At the approach of night, these men finding that we would not return,
left us; as also some others who had come off in two canoes, with a few cocoa-nuts and shaddocks,
to exchange them for what they could get; the eagerness of these people to get into their possession
more of our commodities, inducing them to follow the ships out to sea, and to continue their
intercourse with us to the last moment.

Thus we took leave of the Friendly Islands and their inhabitants, after a stay of between two
and three months, during which time, we lived together in the most cordial friendship. Some
accidental differences, it is true, now and then happened, owing to their great propensity
to thieving; but too often encouraged by the negligence of our own people. But these differences
were never attended with any fatal consequences, to prevent which, all my measures were directed;
and I believe few on board our ships left our friends here without some regret. The time employed
amongst them was not thrown away. We expended very little of our sea provisions, subsisting,
in general, upon the produce of the islands, while we staid, and carrying away with us a quantity
of refreshments sufficient to last till our arrival at another station, where we could depend
upon a fresh supply. I was not sorry, besides, to have had an opportunity of bettering the
condition of these good people, by leaving the useful animals before-mentioned among them;
and, at the same time, those designed for Otaheite, received fresh strength in the pastures
of Tongataboo. Upon the whole, therefore, the advantages we received by touching here were
very great; and I had the additional satisfaction to reflect, that they were received, without
retarding one moment, the prosecution of the great object of our voyage; the season for proceeding
to the north, being, as has been already observed, lost, before I took the resolution of bearing
away for these islands.

But besides the immediate advantages, which both the natives of the Friendly Islands and ourselves
received by this visit, future navigators from Europe, if any such should ever tread our steps,
will profit by the knowledge I acquired of the geography of this part of the Pacific Ocean;
and the more philosophical reader, who loves to view human nature in new situations, and to
speculate on singular, but faithful representations of the persons, the customs, the arts,
the religion, the government, and the language of uncultivated man, in remote and fresh-discovered
quarters of the globe, will perhaps find matter of amusement, if not of instruction, in the
information which I have been enabled to convey to him, concerning the inhabitants of this
Archipelago. I shall suspend my narrative of the progress of the voyage, while I faithfully
relate what I had opportunities of collecting on these several topics.

We found by our experience, that the best articles for traffic at these islands, are iron tools
in general. Axes and hatchets, nails, from the largest spike down to tenpenny ones, rasps,
files, and knives, are much sought after. Red cloth, and linen, both white and coloured, looking-glasses
and beads are also in estimation; but of the latter those that are blue are preferred to all
others, and white ones are thought the least valuable. A string of large blue beads would at
any time purchase a hog. But it must be observed, that such articles as are merely ornaments,
may be highly esteemed at one time, and not so at another. When we first arrived at Annamooka,
the people there would hardly take them in exchange even for fruit; but when Feenou came, this
great man set the fashion, and brought them into vogue, till they rose in their value to what
I have just mentioned.

In return for the favourite commodities which I have enumerated, all the refreshments may be
procured that the islands produce. These are, hogs, fowls, fish, yams, breadfruit, plantains,
cocoa-nuts, sugar-cane, and, in general, every such supply as can be met with at Otaheite,
or any of the Society Islands. The yams of the Friendly Islands are excellent, and, when grown
to perfection, keep very well at sea. But their pork, bread-fruit, and plantains, though far
from despicable, are nevertheless much inferior in quality to the same articles at Otaheite,
and in its neighbourhood.

Good water, which ships on long voyages stand so much in need of, is scarce at these islands.
It may be found, it is true, on them all; but still either in too inconsiderable quantities,
or in situations too inconvenient, to serve the purposes of navigators. However, as the islands
afford plenty of provisions, and particularly of cocoa-nuts, ships may make a tolerable shift
with such water as is to be got; and if one is not over nice, there will be no want. While
we lay at anchor under Kotoo, on our return from Hepaee, some people from Kao informed us,
that there was a stream of water there, which, pouring down from the mountain, runs into the
sea on the S.W. side of the island; that is, on, the side that faces Toofoa, another island
remarkable for its height, as also for having a considerable volcano in it, which, as has been
already mentioned, burnt violently all the time that we were in its neighbourhood. It may be
worth while for future navigators to attend to this intelligence about the stream of water
at Kao, especially as we learned that there was anchorage on that part of the coast. The black
stone, of which the natives of the Friendly Islands make their hatchets and other tools, we
were informed, is the production of Toofoa.

Under the denomination of Friendly Islands, we must include, not only the group at Hepaee which
I visited, but also all those islands that have been discovered nearly under the same meridian
to the north, as well as some others that have never been seen hitherto by any European navigators,
but are under the dominion of Tongataboo, which, though not the largest, is the capital and
seat of government.

According to the information that we received there, this archipelago is very extensive. Above
one hundred and fifty islands were reckoned up to us by the natives, who made use of bits of
leaves to ascertain their number; and Mr Anderson, with his usual diligence, even procured
all their names. Fifteen of them are said to be high or hilly, such, as Toofoa and Eooa, and
thirty-five of them large. Of these, only three were seen this voyage; Hepaee, (which is considered
by the natives as one island,) Tongataboo, and Eooa: Of the size of the unexplored thirty-two,
nothing more can be mentioned, but that they must be all larger than Annamooka, which those
from whom we had our information ranked amongst the smaller isles. Some, or indeed several
of this latter denomination, are mere spots without inhabitants. But it must be left to future
navigators to introduce into the geography of this part of the South Pacific Ocean the exact
situation and size of near a hundred more islands in this neighbourhood, which we had not an
opportunity to explore, and whose existence we only learnt from the testimony of our friends
as above-mentioned. On their authority the following list of them was made, and it may serve
as a ground-work for farther investigation.

Names of the Friendly Islands, and others, in that Neighbourhood, mentioned by the Inhabitants
of Anamooka, Hepaee, and Tongataboo.[173]

[Footnote 173: Those islands which the natives represented as large ones, are distinguished
in Italics.]

   Komooefeeva,        Noogoofaeeou,        Novababoo,
   Kollalona,          Koreemou,            Golabbe,
   Felongaboonga,      Failemaia,           Vagaeetoo,
   Kovereetoa,         Koweeka,             Gowakka,
   Fonogooeatta,       Konookoonama,         Goofoo,
   Modooanoogoo        Kooonoogoo,           Mafanna,
      noogoo           Geenageena,           Kolloooa,
   Tongooa,            Kowourogoheefo,       Tabanna,
   Koooa,              Kottejeea,            Motooha,
   Fenooa eeka,        Kokabba,              Looakabba,
   Vavaoo            Boloa,                Toofanaetollo,
   Koloa,              Toofagga,             Toofanaelaa,
   Fafeene,            Loogoobahanga,        Kogoopoloo,
   Taoonga,            Taoola,               Havaeeeeke,
   Kobakeemotoo,       Maneeneeta,           Tootooeela,
   Kongahoonoho,       Fonooaooma,           Manooka,
   Komalla,            Fonooonneonne,        Leshainga,
   Konoababoo,         Wegaffa,              Pappataia,
   Konnetalle,         Fooamotoo,            Loubatta,
   Komongoraffa,       Fonooalaiee,          Oloo,
   Kotoolooa,          Tattahoi,             Takounove,
   Kologobeele,        Latte,                Kapaoo,
   Kollokolahee,       Neuafo,               Kovooeea,
   Matageefaia,        Feejee,               Kongaireekee;
   Mallajee,           Oowaia,               Tafeedoowaia,
   Mallalahee,         Kongaiarahoi,         Hamoa,
   Gonoogoolaiee,      Kotoobooo,            Neeootabootaboo,
   Toonabai,           Komotte,              Fotoona,
   Konnevy,            Komoarra,             Vytooboo,
   Konnevao,           Kolaiva,              Lotooma,
   Moggodoo,           Kofoona,              Toggelao,
   Looamoggo,          Konnagillelaivoo,     Talava.

I have not the least doubt that Prince William's Islands, discovered and so named by Tasman,
are included in the foregoing list. For while we lay at Hapaee, one of the natives told me,
that three or four days sail from thence to the N.W., there was a cluster of small islands,
consisting of upwards of forty. This situation corresponds very well with that assigned in
the accounts we have of Tasman's voyage, to his Prince William's Islands.[174]

[Footnote 174: Tasman saw eighteen or twenty of these small islands, every one of which was
surrounded with sands, shoals, and rocks. They are also called in some charts, Heemskirk's
Banks. See Dalrymple's Collection of Voyages to the South Pacific Ocean, vol. ii. p. 38, and
Campbell's edition of Harris's, vol. i. p. 325.--D.]

We have also very good authority to believe that Keppel's and Boscawen's Island, two of Captain
Wallis's discoveries in 1765, are comprehended in our list; and that they are not only well
known to these people, but are under the same sovereign. The following information seemed to
me decisive as to this: Upon my enquiring one day of Poulaho, the king, in what manner the
inhabitants of Tongataboo had acquired the knowledge of iron, and from what quarter they had
procured a small iron tool which I had seen amongst them when I first visited their island,
during my former voyage, he informed me, that they had received this iron from an island which
he called Neeootabootaboo. Carrying my enquiries further, I then desired to know whether he
had ever been informed from whom the people of Neeootabootaboo had got it. I found him perfectly
acquainted with its history. He said that one of those islanders sold a club for five nails,
to a ship which had touched there, and that these five nails afterward were sent to Tongataboo.
He added, that this was the first iron known amongst them, so that what Tasman left of that
metal must have been worn out, and forgot long ago. I was very particular in my enquiries about
the situation, size, and form of the island; expressing my desire to know when this ship had
touched there, how long she staid, and whether any more were in company. The leading facts
appeared to be fresh in his memory. He said that there was but one ship; that she did not come
to an anchor, but left the island after her boat had been on shore. And from many circumstances
which he mentioned, It could not be many years since this had happened. According to his information,
there are two islands near each other, which he himself had been at. The one he described as
high and peaked, like Kao, and he called it Kootahee; the other, where the people of the ship
landed, called Neeootabootaboo, he represented as much lower. He added, that the natives of
both are the same sort of people with those of Tongataboo, built their canoes in the same manner,
that their islands had hogs and fowls, and in general the same vegetable productions. The ship
so pointedly referred to in this conversation, could be no other than the Dolphin; the only
single ship from Europe, as far as we have ever learned, that had touched of late years at
any island in this part of the Pacific Ocean, prior to my former visit of the Friendly Islands.[175]

[Footnote 175: See Captain Wallis's Voyage in this Collection, vol. xii. Captain Wallis calls
both these islands high ones. But the superior height of one of them may be inferred, from
his saying, that it appears like a sugar-loaf. This strongly marks its resemblance to Kao.
From comparing Poulaho's intelligence to Captain Cook, with Captain Wallis's account, it seems
to be past all doubt that Boscawen's Island is our Kotahee, and Keppel's Island our Neeootabootaboo.
The last is one of the large islands marked in the foregoing list. The reader, who has been
already apprized of the variations of our people in writing down what the natives pronounced,
will hardly doubt that Kottejeea and Kootahee are the same.--D.]

But the most considerable islands in this neighbourhood that we now heard of, (and we heard
a great deal about them,) are Hamoa, Vavaoo, and Feejee. Each of these was represented to us
as larger than Tongataboo. No European that we know of, has, as yet, seen any of them. Tasman,
indeed, lays down in his chart an island nearly in the situation where, I suppose Vavaoo to
be, that is about the latitude of 91°.[176] But then that island is there marked as a very
small one, whereas Vavaoo, according to the united testimony of all our friends at Tongataboo,
exceeds the size of their own island, and has high mountains, I should certainly have visited
it, and have accompanied Feenou from Hapaee, if he had not then discouraged me, by representing
it to be very inconsiderable, and without any harbour. But Poulaho, the king, afterward assured
me that it was a large island; and that it not only produced every thing in common with Tongataboo,
but had the peculiar advantage of possessing several streams of fresh water, with as good a
harbour as that which we found at his capital island. He offered to attend me if I would visit
it; adding, that if I did not find every thing agreeing with his representation, I might kill
him. I had not the least doubt of the truth of his intelligence; and was satisfied that Feenou,
from some interested view, attempted to deceive me.

[Footnote 176: Neither Dalrymple nor Campbell, in their accounts of Tasman's voyage, take any
particular notice of his having seen such an island. The chart here referred to by Captain
Cook, is probably Mr Dalrymple's, in his Collection of Voyages, where Tasman's track is marked
accurately; and several very small spots of land are laid down in the situation here mentioned.--D.]

Hamoa, which is also under the dominion of Tongataboo, lies two days sail N.W. from Vavaoo;
it was described to me as the largest of all their islands, as affording harbours and good
water, and as producing in abundance every article of refreshment found at the places we visited.
Poulaho himself frequently resides there. It should seem that the people of this island are
in high estimation at Tongataboo; for we were told that some of the songs and dances with which
we were entertained, had been copied from theirs; and we saw some houses said to be built after
their fashion. Mr Anderson, always inquisitive about such matters, learnt the three following
words of the dialect of Hamoa;

   Tamolao,[177] a chief man.
   Tamaety,    a chief woman.
   Solle,      a common man.

Feejee, as we were told, lies three days sail from Tongataboo, in the direction of N.W. by
W. It was described to us as a high, but very fruitful island, abounding with hogs, dogs, fowls,
and all the kinds of fruit and roots that are found in any of the others, and as much larger
than Tongataboo; to the dominion of which, as was represented, to us, it is not subject, as
the other islands of this archipelago are. On the contrary, Feejee and Tongataboo frequently
make war upon each other. And it appeared from several circumstances, that the inhabitants
of the latter are much afraid of this enemy. They used to express their sense of their own
inferiority to the Feejee men by bending the body forward, and covering the face with their
hands. And it is no wonder that they should be under this dread; for those of Feejee are formidable
on account of the dexterity with which they use their bows and slings, but much more so on
account of the savage practice to which they are addicted, like those of New Zealand, of eating
their enemies whom they kill in battle. We were satisfied that this was not a misrepresentation;
for we met with several Feejee people at Tongataboo, and, on enquiring of them, they did not
deny the charge.

[Footnote 177: In two or three preceding notes, extracts have been made from the Lettres Edifiantes
et Curieuses, as marking a strong resemblance between some of the customs of the inhabitants
of the Caroline Islands, and those which Captain Cook describes as prevailing at an immense
distance, in the islands which he visited in the South Pacific Ocean. Possibly, however, the
presumption arising from this resemblance, that all these islands were peopled by the same
nation, or tribe, may be resisted, under the plausible pretence, that customs very similar
prevail amongst very distant people, without inferring any other common source, besides the
general principles of human nature, the same in all ages, and every part of the globe. The
reader, perhaps, will not think this pretence applicable to the matter before us, if he attends
to the following very obvious distinction: Those customs which have their foundation in wants
that are common to the whole human species, and which are confined to the contrivance of means
to relieve those wants, may well be supposed to bear a strong resemblance, without warranting
the conclusion, that they who use them have copied each other, or have derived them from one
common source; human sagacity being the same every where, and the means adapted to the relief
of any particular natural want, especially in countries similarly uncultivated, being but few.
Thus the most distant tribes, as widely separated as the Kamtschadales are from the Brazilians,
may produce their fire by rubbing two sticks upon each other, without giving us the least foundation
for supposing, that either of them imitated the other, or derived the invention from a source
of instruction common to both. But this seems not to be the case, with regard to those customs
to which no general principle of human nature has given birth, and which have their establishment
solely from the endless varieties of local whim and national fashion. Of this latter kind,
those customs obviously are, that belong both to the North and to the South Pacific Islands,
from which we would infer, that they were originally one nation; and the men of Mangeea, and
the men of the New Philippines, who pay their respects to a person whom they mean to honour,
by rubbing his hand over their faces, bid fair to have learnt their mode of salutation in the
same school. But if this observation should not have removed the doubts of the sceptical refiner,
probably he will hardly venture to persist in denying the identity of race, contended for in
the present instance, when he shall observe, that, to the proof drawn from affinity of customs,
we have it in our power to add that most unexceptionable one, drawn from affinity of language.
Tamoloa, we now know, is the word used at Hamoa, one of the Friendly Islands, to signify a
chief: And whoever looks into the Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, will see this is the very
name by which the inhabitants of the Caroline Islands distinguish their principal men. We have,
in two preceding notes, inserted passages from Father Cantova's account of them, where their
Tamoles are spoken of; and he repeats the word at least a dozen times in the course of a few
pages. But I cannot avoid transcribing from him, the following very decisive testimony, which
renders any other quotation superfluous:--"L'autoritié du Gouvernement se partage entre plusieurs
familles nobles, dont les Chefs s'appellent Tamoles. Il y a outre cela, dans chaque province,
un principale Tamole, auquel tous les autres sont soumis."--Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses,
tom, xv p. 312.--D.

Mr Faber, in a prospectus to his work on Pagan Idolatry, has availed himself of the important
principle contained in this note, to infer a common origin from the peculiar resemblance of
religious opinions and ceremonies among the various systems of paganism. His reasoning is precisely
the same as that which is used in tracing the descent of nations, and it is very distinctly
stated by him in the following passage:--"Things, in themselves not arbitrary, prove nothing
whatsoever: And tribes may be alike hunters, and fishers, and bowmen, though they have sprung
from very different ancestors. But things, in themselves altogether arbitrary, are acknowledged
to form the basis of a reasonable argument: And, if tribes are found to speak dialects of the
same language, and to be attached throughout to the same whimsical customs, which are not deducible
from the nature of things, but from pure caprice merely, such points of coincidence are commonly
and rationally thought to furnish a moral demonstration of the common origin of those tribes."
An objection to this reasoning instantly rises from a denial of the notion, that any thing
can be arbitrary, in which such a limited being as man is concerned. A skilful opponent, in
other words, will move the previous question respecting man's free agency, and will not move
a step in consequences, till it be decided. Nay, even if it were so, in favour of the highest
claims which have ever been put in on the side of liberty, still he might demur, and with good
reason indeed, till the fact of arbitrariness in any case, or cases, was ascertained. Obviously,
would he say, we are not entitled to make inferences from the nature of things, till we are
acquainted with it. But who, he would ask, can with propriety say, his acquaintance with nature
is so complete, that he can at once, and without possibility of mistake, determine, what does
and what does not belong to it? It is to be feared, that a man has but a bad case in hand,
who, in order to establish its truth, must first prove his own infallibility. Such an objection,
therefore, as has been now stated, is evidently not destitute of strength. But on the whole,
a careful examination will convince any unprejudiced person, that the reasoning alluded to,
is entitled to considerable regard, and yields very probable deductions. Only let us not urge
it too far, and let us by all means recollect, that things which to lookers-on seem altogether
arbitrary, may nevertheless be accounted for by the agents themselves, on principles which
have their foundation in the common nature of our species, independent of any casual communication
or intercourse between us.--E.]

Now that I am again led to speak of cannibals, let me ask those who maintain, that the want
of food first brings men to feed on human flesh, what is it that induces the Feejee people
to keep it up in the midst of plenty? This practice is detested very much by those of Tongataboo,
who cultivate the friendship of their savage neighbours of Feejee, apparently out of fear,
though they sometimes venture to skirmish with them on their own ground, and carry off red
feathers as their booty, which are in great plenty there, and, as has been frequently mentioned,
are in great estimation amongst our Friendly Islanders. When the two islands are at peace,
the intercourse between them seems to be pretty frequent, though they have, doubtless, been
but lately known to each other; or we may suppose that Tongataboo, and its adjoining islands,
would have been supplied before this with a breed of dogs, which abound at Feejee, and had
not been introduced at Tongataboo so late as 1773, when I first visited it. The natives of
Feejee, whom we met with here, were of a colour that was a full shade darker than that of the
inhabitants of the Friendly Islands in general. One of them had his left ear slit, and the
lobe was so distended, that it almost reached his shoulder, which singularity I had met with
at other islands of the South Sea, during my second voyage. It appeared to me that the Feejee
men whom we now saw were much respected here, not only perhaps from the power and cruel manner
of their nation's going to war, but also from their ingenuity. For they seem to excel the inhabitants
of Tongataboo in that respect, if we might judge from several specimens of their skill in workmanship
which we saw, such as clubs and spears, which were carved in a very masterly manner, cloth
beautifully chequered, variegated mats, earthen pots, and some other articles, all which had
a cast of superiority in the execution.

I have mentioned that Feejee lies three days sail from Tongataboo, because these people have
no other method of measuring the distance from island to island, but by expressing the time
required to make the voyage in one of their canoes. In order to ascertain this with some precision,
or at least to form some judgment how far these canoes can sail in a moderate gale in any given
time, I went on board one of them, when under sail, and, by several trials with the log, found
that she went seven knots, or miles, in an hour, close hauled, in a gentle gale. From this
I judge, that they will sail, on a medium, With such breezes as generally blow in their sea,
about seven or eight miles in an hour. But the length of each day is not to be reckoned at
twenty-four hours. For when they speak of one day's sail, they mean no more than from the morning
to the evening of the same day, that is, ten or twelve hours at most. And two days sail with
them signifies from the morning of the first day to the evening of the second, and so for any
other number of days. In these navigations, the sun is their guide by day, and the stars by
night. When these are obscured, they have recourse to the points from whence the winds and
the waves came upon the vessel. If during the obscuration, both the wind and the waves should
shift, (which, within the limits of the trade-wind seldom happens at any other time,) they
are then bewildered, frequently miss their intended port, and are never heard of more. The
history of Omai's countrymen, who were driven, to Wateeoo, leads us to infer, that those not
heard of are not always lost.

Of all the harbours and anchoring places I have met with among these islands, that of Tongataboo
is by far the best, not only on account of its great security, but of its capacity, and of
the goodness of its bottom. The risk that we ran in entering it from the north, ought to be
a sufficient caution to every future commander, not to attempt that passage again with a ship
of burden, since the other, by which we left it, is so much more easy and safe. To sail into
it by this eastern channel, steer in for the N.E. point of the island, and keep along the north
shore, with the small isles on your starboard, till you are the length of the east point of
the entrance into the lagoon, then edge over for the reef of the small isles, and, on following
its direction, it will conduct you through between Makkahaa and Monoofai, or the fourth and
fifth isles, which you will perceive to lie off the west point of the lagoon. Or you may go
between the third and fourth islands, that is, between Pangimodoo and Monooafai, but this channel
is much narrower than the other. There runs a very strong tide in both. The flood, as I have
observed before, comes in from the N.W., and the ebb returns the same way; but I shall speak
of the tides in another place. As soon as you are through either of these channels, haul in
for the shore of Tongataboo, and anchor between it and Pangimodoo, before a creek leading into
the lagoon, into which boats can go at half flood.

Although Tongataboo has the best harbour, Annamooka furnishes the best water, and yet it cannot
be called good. However, by digging holes near the side of the pond, we can get what may be
called tolerable. This island too is the best situated for drawing refreshments from all the
others, as being nearly in the centre of the whole group. Besides the road in which we anchored,
and the harbour within the south-west point, there is a creek in the reef before the eastern
sandy cove, on the north side of the island, in which two or three ships may lie very securely
by mooring head and stern, with their anchors or moorings fast to the rocks.

I have already described the Hepaee Islands, and shall only add to that description, by mentioning
that they extend S.W. by S., and N.E. by N., about nineteen miles. The north end lies in the
latitude of 19° 39" S., and 33' of longitude to the east of Annamooka. Between them are a great
many small islands, sand-banks, and breakers; so, that, the safest way to arrive at Hepaee,
is either by the course I held, or round by the north, according to the situation of the ship
bound thither. Lefooga, off which we anchored, is the most fertile isle of those that are called
Hepaee, and consequently is the best inhabited. There is anchorage along the north-west side
of this island; but it will be necessary to examine the ground well before you moor. For, although
the lead may bring up fine sand, there are nevertheless some sharp coral rocks, that would
soon destroy the cables.

What has been here omitted concerning the geography of these islands, will be found in the
narrative of my last voyage. To that narrative I must also refer, for such particulars concerning
the inhabitants, their manners, and arts, as I had observed then, and about which I saw no
reason to change my judgment. At present, I shall confine myself to such interesting particulars,
as either were not mentioned in that narrative, or were imperfectly or incorrectly represented
there, and to such as may serve to explain some passages in the foregoing account of our transactions
with the natives.

It may, indeed, be expected, that after spending between two and three months amongst them,
I should be enabled to clear up every difficulty, and to give a tolerably satisfactory account
of their customs, opinions, and institutions, both civil and religious, especially as we had
a person on board, who might be supposed qualified to act the part of an interpreter, by understanding
their language and ours. But poor Omai was very deficient. For unless the object or thing we
wanted to enquire about, was actually before us, we found it difficult to gain a tolerable
knowledge of it from information only, without falling into a hundred mistakes; and to such
mistakes Omai was more liable than we were. For, having no curiosity, he never gave himself
the trouble to make remarks for himself; and, when he was disposed to explain matters to us,
his ideas appeared to be so limited, and perhaps so different from ours, that his accounts
were often so confused, as to perplex instead of instructing us. Add to this, that it was very
rare that we found amongst the natives, a person who united the ability and the inclination
to give us the information we wanted; and we found, that most of them hated to be troubled
with what they probably thought idle questions. Our situation at Tongataboo, where we remained
the longest, was like-wise unfavourable. It was in a part of the country where there were few
inhabitants, except fishers. It was always holiday with our visitors, as well as with those
we visited; so that we had but few opportunities of observing what was really the domestic
way of living of the natives. Under these disadvantages, it is not surprising that we should
not be able to bring away with us satisfactory accounts of many things; but some of us endeavoured
to remedy those disadvantages by diligent observation, and I am indebted to Mr Anderson for
a considerable share of what follows in this and in the following section. In other matters,
I have only expressed, nearly in his own words, remarks that coincided with mine; but what
relates to the religion and language of these people is entirely his own.

The natives of the Friendly Islands seldom exceed the common stature (though we have measured
some who were above six feet), but are very strong and well-made, especially as to their limbs.
They are generally broad about the shoulders, and though the muscular disposition of the men,
which seems a consequence of much action, rather conveys the appearance of strength than of
beauty, there are several to be seen who are really handsome. Their features are very various,
insomuch, that it is scarcely possible to fix on any general likeness by which to characterize
them, unless it be a fullness at the point of the nose, which is very common. But, on the other
hand, we met with hundreds of truly European faces, and many genuine Roman noses amongst them.
Their eyes and teeth are good; but the last neither so remarkably white nor so well set, as
is often found amongst Indian nations; though to balance that, few of them have any uncommon
thickness about the lips, a defect as frequent as the other perfection.

The women are not so much distinguished from the men by their features, as by their general
form, which is, for the most part, destitute of that strong fleshy firmness that appears in
the latter. Though the features of some are so delicate, as not only to be a true index of
their sex, but to lay claim to a considerable share of beauty and expression, the rule is by
no means so general as in many other countries. But, at the same time, this is frequently the
most exceptionable part; for the bodies and limbs of most of the females, are well proportioned,
and some absolutely perfect models of a beautiful figure. But the most remarkable distinction
in the women, is the uncommon smallness and delicacy of their fingers, which may be put in
competition with the finest in Europe.

The general colour is a cast deeper than the copper brown; but several of the men and women
have a true olive complexion, and some of the last are even a great deal fairer, which is probably
the effect of being less exposed to the sun, as a tendency to corpulence, in a few of the principal
people, seems to be the consequence of a more indolent life. It is also amongst the last, that
a soft clear skin is most frequently observed. Amongst the bulk of the people, the skin is
more commonly of a dull hue, with some degree of roughness, especially the parts that are not
covered, which perhaps may be occasioned by some cutaneous disease. We saw a man and boy at
Hepaee, and a child at Annamooka, perfectly white. Such have been found amongst all black nations;
but I apprehend that their colour is rather a disease, than a natural phenomenon.

There are nevertheless, upon the whole, few natural defects or deformities to be found amongst
them, though we saw two or three with their feet bent inward, and some afflicted with a sort
of blindness, occasioned by a disease of the cornea. Neither are they exempt from some other
diseases. The most common of which is the tetter, or ring-worm, that seems to affect almost
one half of them, and leaves whitish serpentine marks every where behind it. But this is of
less consequence than another disease which is very frequent, and appears on every part of
the body in large broad ulcers, with thick white edges, discharging a clear thin matter, some
of which had a very virulent appearance, particularly those on the face, which were shocking
to look at. And yet we met with some who seemed to be cured of it, and others in a fair way
of being cured; but this was not effected without the loss of the nose, or of the best part
of it. As we know for a certainty, (and the fact is acknowledged by themselves), that the people
of these islands were subject to this loathsome disease before the English first visited them,
notwithstanding the similarity of symptoms, it cannot be the effect of the venereal contagion,
unless we adopt a supposition, which I could wish had a sufficient foundation in truth, that
the venereal disorder was not introduced here from Europe by our ships in 1773. It assuredly
was now found to exist amongst them, for we had not been long there, before some of our people
received the infection; and I had the mortification to learn from thence, that all the care
I took when I first visited these islands to prevent this dreadful disease from being communicated
to their inhabitants, had proved ineffectual. What is extraordinary, they do not seem to regard
it much; and as we saw few signs of its destroying effects, probably the climate, and the way
of living of these people, greatly abate its virulence. There are two other diseases frequent
amongst them; one of which is an indolent firm swelling, which affects the legs and arms, and
increases them to an extraordinary size in their whole length. The other is a tumour of the
same sort in the testicles, which sometimes exceed the size of the two fists. But, in other
respects, they may be considered as uncommonly healthy, not a single person having been seen,
during our stay, confined to the house by sickness of any kind. On the contrary, their strength
and activity are every way answerable to their muscular appearance; and they exert both, in
their usual employment and in their diversions, in such a manner, that there can be no doubt
of their being; as yet, little debilitated by the numerous diseases that are the consequence
of indolence, and an unnatural method of life.

The graceful air and firm step with which these people walk, are not the least obvious proof
of their personal accomplishments. They consider this as a thing so natural, or so necessary
to be acquired, that nothing used to excite their laughter sooner, than to see us frequently
stumbling upon the roots of trees, or other inequalities of the ground.

Their countenances very remarkably express the abundant mildness or good-nature which they
possess; and are entirely free from that savage keenness which marks nations in a barbarous
state. One would, indeed, be apt to fancy that they had been bred up under the severest restrictions,
to acquire an aspect so settled, and such a command of their passions, as well as steadiness
in conduct. But they are, at the same time, frank, cheerful, and good-humoured; though sometimes
in the presence of their chiefs, they put on a degree of gravity, and such a serious air, as
becomes stiff and awkward, and has an appearance of reserve.

Their peaceable disposition is sufficiently evinced from the friendly reception all strangers
have met with who have visited them. Instead of offering to attack them openly or clandestinely,
as has been the case with most of the inhabitants of these seas, they have never appeared,
in the smallest degree, hostile; but, on the contrary, like the most civilized people, have
courted an intercourse with, their visitors by bartering, which is the only medium that unites
all nations in a sort of friendship. They understand barter (which they call fukkatou) so perfectly,
that at first we imagined they might have acquired this knowledge of it by commercial intercourse
with the neighbouring islands; but we were afterward assured, that they had little or no traffic,
except with Feejee, from which they get the red feathers, and the few other articles mentioned
before. Perhaps no nation in the world traffic with more honesty and less distrust. We could
always safely permit them to examine our goods, and to hand them about one to another; and
they put the same confidence in us. If either party repented of the bargain, the goods were
re-exchanged with mutual consent and good-humour. Upon the whole, they seem possessed of many
of the most excellent qualities that adorn the human mind; such as industry, ingenuity, perseverance,
affability, and, perhaps, other virtues which our short stay with them might prevent our observing.

The only defect sullying their character, that we know of, is a propensity to thieving, to
which we found those of all ages, and both sexes, addicted, and to an uncommon degree. It should,
however, be considered, that this exceptionable part of their conduct seemed to exist merely
with respect to us; for, in their general intercourse with one another, I had reason to be
of opinion, that thefts do not happen more frequently (perhaps less so) than in other countries,
the dishonest practices of whose worthless individuals are not supposed to authorise any indiscriminate
censure on the whole body of the people. Great allowances should be made for the foibles of
these poor natives of the Pacific Ocean, whose minds were overpowered with the glare of objects,
equally new to them, as they were captivating. Stealing, amongst the civilized and enlightened
nations of the world, may well be considered as denoting a character deeply stained with moral
turpitude, with avarice unrestrained by the known rules of right, and with profligacy producing
extreme indigence, and neglecting the means of relieving it. But at the Friendly and other
islands which we visited, the thefts, so frequently committed by the natives, of what we had
brought along with us, may be fairly traced to less culpable motives. They seemed to arise
solely from an intense curiosity or desire to possess something which they had not been accustomed
to before, and belonging to a sort of people so different from themselves. And, perhaps, if
it were possible, that a set of beings, seemingly as superior in our judgment, as we are in
theirs, should appear amongst us, it might be doubted, whether our natural regard to justice
would be able to restrain many from falling into the same error. That I have assigned the true
motive for their propensity to this practice, appears from their stealing every thing indiscriminately
at first sight, before they could have the least conception of converting their prize to any
one useful purpose. But I believe with us, no person would forfeit his reputation, or expose
himself to punishment, without knowing, before-hand, how to employ the stolen goods. Upon the
whole, the pilfering disposition of these islanders, though certainly disagreeable and troublesome
to strangers, was the means of affording us some information as to the quickness of their intellects.
For their small thefts were committed with much dexterity; and those of greater consequence
with a plan or scheme suited to the importance of the objects. An extraordinary instance of
the last sort, their attempts to carry away one of the Discovery's anchors at mid-day, has
been already related.

Their hair is, in general, straight, thick, and strong, though a few have it bushy and frizzled.
The natural colour, I believe, almost without exception, is black; but the greatest part of
the men, and some of the women, have it stained of a brown or purple colour, and a few of an
orange cast. The first colour is produced by applying a sort of plaster of burnt coral, mixed
with water; the second, by the raspings of a reddish wood, which is made up with water into
a poultice, and laid over the hair; and the third is, I believe, the effect of turmeric root.

When I first visited these islands, I thought it had been an universal custom for both men
and women to wear the hair short; but, during our present longer stay, we saw a great many
exceptions. Indeed, they are so whimsical in their fashions of wearing it, that it is hard
to tell which is most in vogue. Some have it cut off from one side of the head, while that
on the other remains long; some have only a portion of it cut short, or perhaps shaved; others
have it entirely cut off, except a single lock, which is left commonly on one side; or it is
suffered to grow to its full length, without any of these mutilations. The women in general
wear it short. The men have their beards cut short; and both men and women strip the hair from
their arm pits. The operation by which this is performed has been already described. The men
are stained from about the middle of the belly, to about half way down their thighs, with a
deep, blue colour. This is done with a flat bone instrument, cut full of fine teeth, which,
being dipped in the staining mixture, prepared from the juice of the dooe dooe, is struck into
the skin with a bit of stick, and, by that means, indelible marks are made. In this manner
they trace lines and figures, which, in some, are very elegant, both from the variety, and
from the arrangement. The women have only a few small lines or spots, thus imprinted, on the
inside of their hands. Their kings, as a mark of distinction, are exempted from this custom,
as also from inflicting on themselves any of those bloody marks of mourning, which shall be
mentioned in another place.

The men are all circumcised, or rather supercised; as the operation consists in cutting off
only a small piece of the foreskin at the upper part, which, by that means, is rendered incapable
ever after of covering the glans. This is all they aim at; as they say, the operation is practised
from a notion of cleanliness.

The dress of both men and women is the same, and consists of a piece of cloth or matting (but
mostly the former), about two yards wide, and two and a half long; at least, so long as to
go once and a half round the waist, to which it is confined by a girdle or cord. It is double
before, and hangs down like a petticoat, as low as the middle of the leg. The upper part of
the garment, above the girdle, is plaited into several folds; so that when unfolded, there
is cloth sufficient to draw up and wrap round the shoulders, which is very seldom done. This,
as to form, is the general dress; but large pieces of cloth, and fine matting, are worn only
by the superior people. The inferior sort are satisfied with small pieces, and very often wear
nothing but a covering made of leaves of plants, or the maro, which is a narrow piece of cloth,
or matting, like a sash. This they pass between the thighs, and wrap round the waist; but the
use of it is chiefly confined to the men. In their great haivas, or entertainments, they have
various dresses made for the purpose; but the form is always the same, and the richest dresses
are covered, more or less, with red feathers. On what particular occasion their chiefs wear
their large red feather-caps, I could not learn. Both men and women sometimes shade their faces
from the sun with little bonnets, made of various materials.

As the clothing, so are the ornaments, worn by those of both sexes, the same. The most common
of these are necklaces, made of the fruit of the pandamus, and various sweet-smelling flowers,
which go under the general name of kahulla. Others are composed of small shells, the wing and
leg-bones of birds, shark's teeth, and other things; all which hang loose upon the breast.
In the same manner, they often wear a mother-of-pearl shell, neatly polished, or a ring of
the same substance carved, on the upper part of the arm; rings of tortoise-shell on the fingers,
and a number of these joined together as bracelets on the wrists.

The lobes of the ears (though most frequently only one) are perforated, with two holes, in
which they wear cylindrical bits of ivory, about three inches long, introduced at one hole,
and brought out of the other; or bits of reed of the same size, filled with a yellow pigment.
This seems, to be a fine powder of turmeric, with which the women rub themselves all over,
in the same manner, as our ladies use their dry rouge upon the cheeks.

Nothing appears to give them greater pleasure than personal cleanliness; to produce which,
they frequently bathe in the ponds, which seem to serve no other purpose.[178] Though the water
in most of them stinks intolerably, they prefer them to the sea; and they are so sensible that
salt water hurts their skin, that, when necessity obliges them to bathe in the sea, they commonly
have some cocoa-nut shells, filled with fresh water, poured over them, to wash it off. They
are immoderately fond of cocoa-nut oil for the same reason; a great quantity of which they
not only pour upon their head and shoulders, but rub the body all over, briskly, with a smaller
quantity. And none but those who have seen this practice, can easily conceive how the appearance
of the skin is improved by it. This oil, however, is not to be procured by every one; and the
inferior sort of people, doubtless, appear less smooth for want of it.

[Footnote 178: So at the Caroline Islands. "Ils sont accoutumés a se baigner trois fois le
jour, le matin, à midi, et sur le soir."

Their domestic life is of that middle kind, neither so laborious as to be disagreeable, nor
so vacant as to suffer them to degenerate into indolence. Nature has done so much for their
country, that the first can hardly occur, and their disposition seems to be a pretty good bar
to the last. By this happy combination of circumstances, their necessary labor seems to yield
in its turn to their recreations, in such a manner, that the latter are never interrupted by
the thoughts of being obliged to recur to the former, till satiety makes them wish for such
a transition.

The employment of the women is of the easy kind, and, for the most part, such as may be executed
in the house. The manufacturing their cloth is wholly consigned to their care. Having already
described the process, I shall only add, that they have this cloth of different degrees of
fineness. The coarser sort, of which they make very large pieces, does not receive the impression
of any pattern. Of the finer sort, they have some that is striped and chequered, and of other
patterns differently coloured. But how these colours are laid on, I cannot say, as I never
saw any of this sort made. The cloth, in general, will resist water for some time; but that
which has the strongest glaze will resist longest.

The manufacture next in consequence, and also within the department of the women, is that of
their mats, which excel every thing I have seen at any other place, both as to their texture
and their beauty. In particular, many of them are so superior to those made at Otaheite, that
they are not a bad article to carry thither by way of trade. Of these mats, they have seven
or eight different sorts, for the purposes of wearing or sleeping upon, and many are merely
ornamental. The last are chiefly made from the tough membraneous part of the stock of the plantain
tree; those that they wear from the pandanus, cultivated for that purpose, and never suffered
to shoot into a trunk; and the coarser sort, which they sleep upon, from a plant called evarra.
There are many other articles of less note, that employ the spare time of their females; as
combs, of which, they make vast numbers; and little baskets made of the same substance as the
mats, and others of the fibrous cocoa-nut husk, either plain, or interwoven with small beads;
but all finished with such neatness and taste in the disposition of the various parts, that
a stranger cannot help admiring their assiduity and dexterity.

The province allotted to the men is, as might be expected, far more laborious and extensive
than that of the women. Agriculture, architecture, boat-building, fishing, and other things
that relate to navigation, are the objects of their care.[179] Cultivated roots and fruits
being their principal support, this requires their constant attention to agriculture, which
they pursue very diligently, and seem to have brought almost to as great perfection as circumstances
will permit. The large extent of the plantain fields has been taken notice of already, and
the same may be said of the yams; these two together, being at least as ten to one, with respect
to all the other articles. In planting both these, they dig small holes for their reception,
and afterward root up the surrounding grass, which, in this hot country, is quickly deprived
of its vegetating power, and, soon rotting, becomes a good manure. The instruments they use
for this purpose, which they call hooo, are nothing more than pickers or stakes of different
lengths, according to the depth they have to dig. These are flattened and sharpened to an edge
at one end, and the largest have a short piece fixed transversely, for pressing it into the
ground with the foot. With these, though they are not more than from two to four inches broad,
they dig and plant ground of many acres in extent. In planting the plantains and yams, they
observe so much exactness, that, whichever way you look, the rows present themselves regular
and complete.

[Footnote 179: How remarkably does Captain Cook's account of the employments of the women and
men here, agree with Father Cantova's, of the Caroline Islanders?--"La principale occupation
des hommes, est de construire des barques, de pecher, et de cultiver la terre. L'affaire des
femmes est de faire la cuisine, et de mettre en oeuvre un espece de plante sauvagé, et un arbre,--pour
en faire de la toile."--Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 313.--D.]

The cocoa-nut and bread-fruit trees are scattered about without any order, and seem to give
them no trouble, after they have attained a certain height. The same may be said of another
large tree, which produces great numbers of a large, roundish, compressed nut, called eeefee;
and of a smaller tree that bears a rounded oval nut, two inches long, with two or three triangular
kernels, tough and insipid, called mabba, most frequently planted near their houses.

The kappe is commonly regularly planted, and in pretty large spots; but the mawhaha is interspersed
amongst other things, as the jeejee and yams are; the last of which I have frequently seen
in the insterspaces of the plantain trees at their common distance. Sugar-cane is commonly
in small spots, crowded closely together; and the mulberry, of which the cloth is made, though
without order, has sufficient room allowed for it, and is kept very clean. The only other plant,
that they cultivate for their manufactures, is the pandanus, which is generally planted in
a row, close together, at the sides of the other fields; and they consider it as a thing so
distinct in this state, that they have a different name for it, which shews, that they are
very sensible of the great changes brought about by cultivation.

It is remarkable, that these people, who, in many things shew much taste and ingenuity, should
shew little of either in building their houses, though the defect is rather in the design than
in the execution. Those of the lower people are poor huts, scarcely sufficient to defend them
from the weather, and very small. Those of the better sort are larger and more comfortable,
but not what one might expect. The dimensions of one of a middling size, are about thirty feet
long, twenty broad, and twelve high. Their house is, properly speaking, a thatched roof or
shed, supported by posts and rafters, disposed in a very judicious manner. The floor is raised
with earth smoothed, and covered with strong thick matting, and kept very clean. The most of
them are closed on the weather-side, (and some more than two-thirds round), with strong mats,
or with branches of the cocoa-nut tree plaited or woven into each other. These they fix up
edgewise, reaching from the eaves to the ground, and thus they answer the purpose of a wall.
A thick strong mat, about two and one-half or three feet broad, bent into the form of a semicircle,
and set up on its edge, with the ends touching the side of the house, in shape resembling the
fender of a fire-hearth, incloses a space for the master and mistress of the family to sleep
in. The lady, indeed, spends most of her time during the day within it. The rest of the family
sleep upon the floor, wherever they please to lie down; the unmarried men and women apart from
each other. Or, if the family be large, there are small huts adjoining, to which the servants
retire in the night; so that privacy is as much observed here as one could expect. They have
mats made on purpose for sleeping on; and the clothes that they wear in the day, serve for
their covering in the night. Their whole furniture consists of a bowl or two, in which they
make kava; a few gourds, cocoa-nut shells, some small wooden stools which serve them for pillows;
and, perhaps, a large stool for the chief or master of the family to sit upon.

The only probable reason I can assign for their neglect of ornamental architecture in the construction
of their houses, is their being fond of living much in the open air. Indeed, they seem to consider
their houses, within which they seldom eat, as of little use but to sleep in, and to retire
to in bad weather. And the lower sort of people, who spend a great part of their time in close
attendance upon the chiefs, can have little use for their own houses, but in the last case.

They make amends for the defects of their houses by their great attention to, and dexterity,
in, naval architecture, if I may be allowed to give it that name. But I refer to the narrative
of my last voyage, for an account of their canoes, and their manner of building and navigating
them.[180]

[Footnote 180: The reader, by comparing that account with what Cantova says of the sea-boats
of the Caroline Islands, will find, in this instance, also, the greatest similarity. See Lettres
Edifiantes et Curieuses, p. 286.--D.]

The only tools which they use to construct these boats, are hatchets, or rather thick adzes,
of a smooth black stone that abounds at Toofooa; augres, made of sharks' teeth, fixed on small
handles; and rasps of a rough skin of a fish, fastened on flat pieces of wood, thinner on one
side, which also have handles. The labour and time employed in finishing their canoes, which
are the most perfect of their mechanical productions, will account for their being very careful
of them. For they are built and preserved under sheds, or they cover the decked part of them
with cocoa leaves, when they are hauled on shore, to prevent their being hurt by the sun.

The same tools are all they have for other works, if we except different shells, which they
use as knives. But there are few of their productions that require these, unless it be some
of their weapons; the other articles being chiefly their fishing materials and cordage.

The cordage is made from the fibres of the cocoa-nut husk, which, though not more than nine
or ten inches long, they plait, about the size of a quill or less, to any length that they
please, and roll it up in balls, from which the larger ropes are made, by twisting several
of these together. The lines that they fish with, are as strong and even as the best cord we
make, resembling it almost in every respect. Their other fishing implements are large and small
hooks. The last are composed entirely of pearl-shell, but the first are only covered with it
on the back, and the points of both commonly of tortoise-shell; those of the small being plain,
and the others barbed. With the large ones they catch bonnetos and albicores, by putting them
to a bamboo rod, twelve or fourteen feet long, with a line of the same length, which rests
in a notch of a piece of wood, fixed in the stern of the canoe for that purpose, and is dragged
on the surface of the sea, as she rows along, without any other bait than a tuft of flaxy stuff
near the point. They have also great numbers of pretty small seines, some of which are of a
very delicate texture. These they use to catch fish with, in the holes on the reefs, when the
tide ebbs.

The other manual employments consist chiefly in making musical reeds, flutes, warlike weapons,
and stools, or rather pillows, to sleep on. The reed have eight, nine, or ten pieces, placed
parallel to each other, but not in any regular progression, having the longest sometimes in
the middle, and several of the same length; so that I have seen none with more than six notes,
and they seem incapable of playing any music on them, that is, distinguishable by our ears.
The flutes are a joint of bamboo, close at both ends, with a hole near each, and four others;
two of which, and one of the first only, are used in playing. They apply the thumb of the left
hand to close the left nostril, and blow into the hole at one end with the other. The middle
finger of the left hand is applied to the first hole on the left, and the fore-finger of the
right to the lowest hole on that side. In this manner, though the notes are only three, they
produce a pleasing, yet simple music, which they vary much more than one would think possible,
with so imperfect an instrument. Their being accustomed to a music which consists of so few
notes, is, perhaps, the reason why they do not seem to relish any of ours, which is so complex.
But they can taste what is more deficient than their own; for, we observed, that they used
to be well pleased with hearing the chant of our two young New Zealanders, which consisted
rather in mere strength, than in melody of expression.

The weapons which they make, are clubs of different sorts (in the ornamenting of which they
spend much time), spears, and darts. They have also bows and arrows; but these seemed to be
designed only for amusement, such as shooting at birds, and not for military purposes. The
stools are about two feet long, but only four or five inches high, and near four broad, bending
downward in the middle, with four strong legs, and circular feet; the whole made of one piece
of black or brown wood, neatly polished, and sometimes inlaid with bits of ivory. They also
inlay the handles of fly-flaps with ivory, after being neatly carved; and they shape bones
into small figures of men, birds, and other things, which must be very difficult, as their
carving instrument is only a shark's tooth.

Yams, plantains, and cocoa-nuts, compose the greatest part of their vegetable diet. Of their
animal food, the chief articles are hogs, fowls, fish, and all sorts of shellfish; but the
lower people eat rats. The two first vegetable articles, with bread-fruit, are what may be
called the basis of their food at different times of the year, with fish and shell-fish; for
hogs, fowls, and turtle, seem only to be occasional dainties reserved for their chiefs. The
intervals between the seasons of these vegetable productions, must be sometimes considerable,
as they prepare a sort of artificial bread from plantains, which they put under ground before
ripe, and suffer them to remain till they ferment, when they are taken out, and made up into
small balls; but so sour and indifferent, that they often said our bread was preferable, though
somewhat musty.

Their food is generally dressed by baking, in the same manner as at Otaheite; and they have
the art of making, from different kinds of fruit, several dishes, which most of us esteemed
very good. I never saw them make use of any kind of sauce, nor drink any thing at their meals
but water, or the juice of the cocoa-nut; for the kava is only their morning draught. I cannot
say that they are cleanly, either in their cookery, or manner of eating. The generality of
them will lay their victuals upon the first leaf they meet with, however dirty it may be; but
when food is served up to the chiefs, it is commonly laid upon green plantain leaves. When
the king made a meal, he was, for the most part, attended upon by three or four persons. One
cut large pieces of the joint, or of the fish; another divided it into mouthfuls; and others
stood by with cocoa-nuts, and whatever else he might want. I never saw a large company sit
down to what we should call a sociable meal, by eating from the same dish. The food, be what
it will, is always divided into portions, each to serve a certain number; these portions are
again subdivided; so that one seldom sees above two or three persons eating together. The women
are not excluded from eating with the men; but there are certain ranks or orders amongst them,
that can neither eat nor drink together. This distinction begins with the king; but where it
ends, I cannot say.

They seem to have no set time for meals; though it should be observed, that, during our stay
amongst them, their domestic economy was much disturbed by their constant attention to us.
As far as we could remark, those of the superior rank only drink kava in the forenoon, and
the others eat, perhaps, a bit of yam; but we commonly saw all of them eat something in the
afternoon. It is probable that the practice of making a meal in the night is pretty common,
and their rest being thus interrupted, they frequently sleep in the day. They go to bed as
soon as it is dark, and rise with the dawn in the morning.[181]

[Footnote 181: Cantova says of his islanders, "Ils prennent leur repos des que le soleil est
couché, et ils se levent avec l'aurore."--Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 314.--D.]

They are very fond of associating together; so that it is common to find several houses empty
and the owners of them convened in some other one, or, rather, upon a convenient spot in the
neighbourhood, where they recreate themselves by conversing and other amusements. Their private
diversions are chiefly singing, dancing, and music performed by the women. When two or three
women sing in concert, and snap their fingers, it is called hoobai; but when there is a greater
number, they divide into several parties, each of which sings on a different key, which makes
a very agreeable music, and is called heeva or haiva. In the same manner, they vary the music
of their flutes by playing on those of a different size; but their dancing is much the same
as when they perform publicly. The dancing of the men (if it is to be called dancing), although
it does not consist much in moving the feet, as we do, has a thousand different motions with
the hands, to which we are entire strangers; and they are performed with an ease and grace
which are not to be described, nor even conceived, but by those who have seen them. But I need
add nothing to what has been already said on this subject, in the account of the incidents
that happened during our stay at the islands.[182]

[Footnote 182: If, to the copious descriptions that occur in the preceding pages, of the particular
entertainments exhibited in Hepaee and Tongataboo, we add the general view of the usual amusements
of the inhabitants of these islands, contained in this paragraph, and compare it with the quotation
from the Jesuit's Letters, in a former note, we shall be still more forcibly struck with the
reasonableness of tracing such singularly resembling customs to one common source. The argument,
in confirmation of this, drawn from identity of language, has been already illustrated, by
observing the remarkable coincidence of the name by which the chiefs of the Caroline Islands,
and those at Hamao, one of the friendly ones, are distinguished. But the argument does not
rest on a single instance, though that happens to be a very striking one. Another of the very
few specimens of the dialect of the North Pacific islanders, preserved by Father Cantova, furnishes
an additional proof. Immediately after the passage above referred to, he proceeds thus: "Ce
divertissement s'appelle, en leur langue, tanger ifaifil; qui veut dire, la plainte des femmes."--Lettres
tres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 315. Now it is very remarkable, that we learn from
Mr Anderson's collection of words, which will appear in this chapter, that la plainte des femmes,
or, in English, the mournful song of the women, which the inhabitants of the Caroline Islands
express in their language tanger ifaifil, would, by those of Tongataboo, be expressed tangee
vefaine.

If any one should still doubt, in spite of this evidence, it may be recommended to his consideration,
that long separation and other causes, have introduced greater variations in the mode of pronouncing
these two words, at places confessedly inhabited by the same race, than subsist in the specimen
just given. It appears, from Mr Anderson's vocabulary, printed in Captain Cook's second voyage,
that what is pronounced tangee at the Friendly Islands, is taee at Otaheite; and the vefaine
of the former, is the waheine of the latter.--D.]

Whether their marriages be made lasting by any kind of solemn contract, we could not determine
with precision; but it is certain, that the bulk of the people satisfied themselves with one
wife. The chiefs, however, have commonly several women;[183] though some of us were of opinion,
that there was only one that was looked upon as the mistress of the family.

[Footnote 183: Cantova says of his Caroline islanders, "La pluralité des femmes est non seulement
permise à tous ces insulaires, elle est encore une marque d'honneur et de distinction. Le Tamole
de l'isle d'Huogoleu en a neuf."--Lettres Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 310.--D.]

As female chastity, at first sight, seemed to be held in no great estimation, we expected to
have found frequent breaches of their conjugal fidelity; but we did them great injustice. I
do not know that a single instance happened daring our whole stay.[184] Neither are those of
the better sort, that are unmarried, more free of their favours. It is true, there was no want
of those of a different character; and, perhaps, such are more frequently met with here, in
proportion to the number of people, than in many other countries. But it appeared to me, that
the most, if not all of them, were of the lowest class; and such of them as permitted familiarities
to our people, were prostitutes by profession.

[Footnote 184: At the Caroline Islands, "Ils ont horreur de l'adultere, comme d'une grand pêché."--Ibid.
tom. xv. p. 310.--D.]

Nothing can be a greater proof of the humanity of these people, than the concern they shew
for the dead.[185] To use a common expression, their mourning is not in words, but deeds. For,
besides the tooge mentioned before, and burnt circles and scars, they beat the teeth with stones,
strike a shark's tooth into the head, until the blood flows in streams, and thrust spears into
the inner part of the thigh, into their sides below the arms-pits, and through the cheeks into
the mouth. All these operations convey an idea of such rigorous discipline, as must require
either an uncommon degree of affection, or the grossest superstition, to exact. I will not
say, that the last has no share in it; for sometimes it is so universal, that many could not
have any knowledge of the person for whom the concern is expressed. Thus we saw the people
of Tongataboo mourning the death of a chief at Vavaoo; and other similar instances occurred
during our stay. It should be observed, however, that the more painful operations are only
practised on account of the death of those most nearly connected with the mourners.[186] When
a person dies, he is buried, after being wrapped up in mats and cloth, much after our manner.
The chiefs seem to have the fiatookas appropriated to them as their burial-places; but the
common people are interred in no particular spot. What part of the mourning ceremony follows
immediately after, is uncertain; but that there is something besides the general one, which
is continued for a considerable length of time, we could infer, from being informed, that the
funeral of Mareewagee's wife, as mentioned before, was to be attended with ceremonies that
were to last five days, and in which all the principal people were to commemorate her.

[Footnote 185: How the inhabitants of the Caroline Islands express their grief on such occasions,
may be seen, ibid. tom. xv. p. 308.--D.]

[Footnote 186: The practice of wounding the body on the death of friends, appears to have existed
in ancient times, and among different people. Moses forbids it to the Israelites, in Levit.
xix. 28. "Ye shall not make any cutting in your flesh for the dead, nor print any mark upon
you." So in Deut. xiv. 1.; and Parkhurst, in his Heb. Lexicon, commenting on the passage in
Deuteronomy, says, the word rendered to cut, is of more general signification, including "all
assaults on their own persons from immoderate grief, such as beating the breasts, tearing the
hair, &c. which were commonly practised by the heathen, who have no hope of a resurrection."
He instances in the Iliad xix, line 284, in the Eneid iv, line 673, the case of the Egyptians
mentioned by Herodotus, Q. 85, and several other passages in different writers. It would be
easy to find out similar examples in the accounts of more modern nations. But the subject is
not very inviting to extensive research.--E.]

Their long and general mourning proves that they consider death as a very great evil. And this
is confirmed by a very odd custom which they practise to avert it. When I first visited these
islands, during my last voyage, I observed that many of the inhabitants had one or both of
their little fingers cut off, and we could not then receive any satisfactory account of the
reason of this mutilation.[187] But we now learned, that this operation is performed when they
labour under some grievous disease, and think themselves in danger of dying. They suppose,
that the Deity will accept of the little finger, as a sort of sacrifice efficacious enough
to procure the recovery of their health. They cut it off with one of their stone hatchets.
There was scarcely one in ten of them whom we did not find thus mutilated in one or both hands,
which has a disagreeable effect, especially as they sometimes cut so close, that they encroach
upon the bone of the hand, which joins to the amputated finger.[188]

[Footnote 187: Cantova's account of the practice of the Caroline Islands, is as follows: "Lorsqu'il
meurt quelque personne d'un rang distmgué, ou qui leur est chere par d'autres endroits, ses
obseques se font avec pompe. Il y eu a qui renferment le corps da défunct dans un petit edifice
de pierre, qu'ils gardent au-dedans de leur maisons. D'autres les enterrent loin de leurs habitations."--Lettres
Edifiantes et Curieuses, tom. xv. p. 308, 309.--D.]

[Footnote 188: It may be proper to mention here, on the authority of Captain King, that it
is common for the inferior people to cut off a joint of their little finger, on account of
the sickness of the chiefs to whom they belong.--D.]

From the rigid severity with which some of these mourning and religious ceremonies are executed,
one would expect to find, that they meant thereby to secure to themselves felicity beyond the
grave; but their principal object relates to things merely temporal. For they seem to have
little conception of future punishment for faults committed in this life. They believe, however,
that they are justly punished upon earth; and consequently use every method to render their
divinities propitious. The Supreme Author of most things they call Kallafootonga, who, they
say, is a female residing in the sky, and directing the thunder, wind, rain, and, in general,
all the changes of weather. They believe, that when she is angry with them, the productions
of the earth are blasted; that many things are destroyed by lightning; and that they themselves
are afflicted with sickness and death, as well as their hogs and other animals. When this anger
abates, they suppose that every thing is restored to its natural order; and it should seem
that they have a great reliance on the efficacy of their endeavours to appease their offended
divinity. They also admit a plurality of deities, though all inferior to Kallafootonga. Amongst
them, they mention Toofooa-boolootoo, god of the clouds and fog; Talleteboo, and some others,
residing in the heavens. The first in rank and power, who has the government of the sea, and
its productions., is called Futtafaihe, or, as it was sometimes pronounced, Footafooa, who,
they say, is a male, and has for his wife Fykava kajeea; and here, as in heaven, there are
several inferior potentates, such as Vahaa fonooa, Tareeava, Mattaba, Evaroo, and others. The
same religious system, however, does not extend all over the cluster of the Friendly Isles;
for the supreme god of Hepaee, for instance, is called Alo Alo; and other isles have two or
three of different names. But their notions of the power and other attributes of these beings
are so very absurd, that they suppose they have no farther concern with them after death.

They have, however, very proper sentiments about the immateriality and the immortality of the
soul. They call it life, the living principle, or, what is more agreeable to their notions
of it, an Otooa, that is, a divinity, or invisible being. They say, that immediately upon death,
the souls of their chiefs separate from their bodies, and go to a place called Boolootoo, the
chief, or god, of which is Gooleho. This Gooleho seems to be a personification of death; for
they used to say to us, "You, and the men of Feejee (by this junction meaning to pay a compliment,
expressive of their confession of our superiority over themselves), are also subject to the
power and dominion of Gooleho." His country, the general receptacle of the dead, according
to their mythology, was never seen by any person; and yet, it seems, they know that it lies
to the westward of Feejee; and that they who are once transported thither, live for ever; or,
to use their own expression, are not subject to death again, but feast upon all the favourite
products of their own country, with which this everlasting abode is supposed to abound. As
to the souls of the lower sort of people, they undergo a sort of transmigration; or, as they
say, are eat by a bird called loata, which walks upon their graves for that purpose.

I think I may venture to assert, that they do not worship any thing that is the work of their
own hands or any visible part of the creation. They do not make offerings of hogs, dogs, and
fruit, as at Otaheite, unless it be emblematically; for their morais were perfectly free from
every thing of the kind. But that they offer real human sacrifices, is, with me, beyond a doubt.
Their morais or fiatookas, (for they are called by both names, but mostly by the latter), are,
as at Otaheite, and many other parts of the world, burying-grounds, and places of worship;
though some of them seemed to be only appropriated to the first purpose; but these were small,
and, in every other respect, inferior to the others.

Of the nature of their government, we know no more than the general outline. A subordination
is established among them, that resembles the feudal system of our progenitors in Europe. But
of its subdivisions, of the constituent parts, and in what manner they are connected, so as
to form a body politic, I confess myself totally ignorant. Some of them told us, that the power
of the king is unlimited, and that the life and property of the subject is at his disposal.
But the few circumstances that fell under our observation, rather contradicted than confirmed
the idea of a despotic government. Mareewagee, old Toobou, and Feenou, acted each like petty
sovereigns, and frequently thwarted the measures of the king, of which he often complained.
Neither was his court more splendid than those of the two first, who are the most powerful
chiefs in the islands; and, next to them, Feenou, Mareewagee's son, seemed to stand highest
in authority. But, however independent on the despotic power of the king the great men may
be, we saw instances enough to prove, that the lower order of people have no property, nor
safety for their persons, but at the will of the chiefs to whom they respectively belong.

Tongataboo is divided into many districts; of above thirty of which we learned the names. Each
of these has its particular chief, who decides differences, and distributes justice within
his own district. But we could not form any satisfactory judgment about the extent of their
power in general, or their mode of proportioning punishments to crimes. Most of these chiefs
have possessions in other islands from whence they draw supplies. At least, we know this is
so with respect to the king, who, at certain established times, receives the product of his
distant domains at Tongataboo, which is not only the principal place of his residence, but
seemingly of all the people of consequence amongst these isles. Its inhabitants, in common
conversation, call it the Land of Chiefs, while the subordinate isles are distinguished by
the appellation of Lands of Servants.

These chiefs are, by the people, styled not only lords of the earth, but of the sun and sky;
and the king's family assume the name of Futtafaihe, from the god so called, who is probably
their tutelary patron, and perhaps their common ancestor. The sovereign's peculiar earthly
title is however, simply Tooee Tunga.

There is a decorum observed in the presence of their principal men, and particularly of their
king, that is truly admirable. Whenever he sits, down, whether it be in an house, or without,
all the attendants seat themselves at the same time, in a semicircle before him, leaving always
a convenient space between him and them, into which no one attempts to come, unless he has
some particular business. Neither is any one allowed to pass, or sit behind him, nor even near
him, without his order or permission, so that our having been indulged with this privilege,
was a significant proof of the great respect that was paid us. When any one wants to speak
with the king, he advances and sits down before him, delivers what he has to say in a few words,
and, having received his answer, retires again to the circle. But if the king speaks to any
one, that person answers from his seat, unless he is to receive some order, in which case he
gets up from his place, and sits down before the chief with his legs across, which is a posture
to which they are so much accustomed, that any other mode of sitting is disagreeable to them.[189]
To speak to the king standing, would be accounted here as a striking mark of rudeness, as it
would be with us, for one to sit down and put on his hat, when he addresses himself to his
superior, and that superior on his feet and uncovered.

[Footnote 189: This is peculiar to the men; the women always sitting with both legs thrown
a little on one side. We owe this remark to Captain King.--D]

It does not, indeed, appear that any of the most civilized nations have ever exceeded this
people in the great order observed on all occasions, in ready compliance with the commands
of their chiefs; and in the harmony that subsists throughout all ranks, and unites them, as
if they were all one man, informed with, and directed by the same principle. Such a behaviour
is remarkably obvious, whenever it is requisite that their chiefs should harangue any body
of them collected together, which is frequently done. The most profound silence and attention
is observed during the harangue, even to a much greater degree than is practised amongst us,
on the most interesting and serious deliberations of our most respectable assemblies. And whatever
might have been the subject of the speech delivered, we never saw an instance, when any individual
present shewed signs of his being displeased, or that indicated the least inclination to dispute
the declared will of a person who had a right to command. Nay, such is the force of these verbal
laws, as I may call them, that I have seen one of their chiefs express his being astonished,
at a person's having acted contrary to such orders, though it appeared, that the poor man could
not possibly have been informed in time to have observed them.[190]

[Footnote 190: Cantava gives us the same account of the profound submission of the Caroline
islanders, to the orders of the Tamole. "Ils reçoivent ses ordres avec le plus profond respect.
Ses paroles sont autant d'oracles, qu' on revere."--Lettres Edifiantes & Curieuses, tom. xv.
p. 312.--D.]

Though some of the more potent chiefs may vie with the king in point of actual possessions,
they fall very short in rank, and in certain marks of respect, which the collective body have
agreed to pay the monarch. It is a particular privilege annexed to his sovereignty, not to
be punctured nor circumcised, as all his subjects are. Whenever he walks out, every one whom
he meets must sit down till he has passed. No one is allowed to be over his head; on the contrary,
all must come under his feet, for there cannot be a greater outward mark of submission, than
that which is paid to the sovereign, and other great people of these islands, by their inferiors.
The method is this; the person who is to pay obeisance, squats down before the chief, and bows
the head to the sole of his foot, which, when he sits, is so placed, that it can be easily
come at, and having tapped, or touched it with the under and upper side of the fingers of both
hands, he rises up and retires. It should seem that the king cannot refuse any one who chooses
to pay him this homage, which is called moe moea; for the common people would frequently take
it into their heads to do it when he was walking, and he was always obliged to stop, and hold
up one of his feet behind him, till they had performed the ceremony. This, to a heavy unwieldy
man, like Poulaho, must be attended with some trouble and pain; and I have sometimes seen him
make a run, though very unable, to get out of the way, or to reach a place where he might conveniently
sit down. The hands, after this application of them to the chief's feet, are, in some cases,
rendered useless for a time; for, until they be washed, they must not touch any kind of food.
This interdiction, in a country where water is so scarce, would seem to be attended with some
inconvenience, but they are never at a loss for a succedaneum; and a piece of any juicy plant,
which they can easily procure immediately, being rubbed upon them, this serves for the purpose
of purification, as well as washing them with water. When the hands are in this state, they
call it taboo rema. Taboo, in general, signifies forbidden, and rema is their word for hand.

When the taboo is incurred, by paying obeisance to a great personage, it is thus easily washed
off. But, in some other cases, it must necessarily continue for a certain time. We have frequently
seen women, who have been taboo rema, fed by others. At the expiration of the time, the interdicted
person washes herself in one of their baths, which are dirty holes, for the most part, of brackish
water. She then waits upon the king, and, after making her obeisance in the usual way, lays
hold of his foot and applies it to her breast, shoulders, and other parts of her body. He then
embraces her on each shoulder, after which she retires, purified from her uncleanness. I do
not know that it is always necessary to come to the king for this purpose, though Omai assured
me it was. If this be so, it may be one reason why he is, for the most part, travelling from
island to island. I saw this ceremony performed by him two or three times, and once by Feenou,
to one of his own women; but as Omai was not then with me, I could not ask the occasion.

Taboo, as I have before observed, is a word of an extensive signification. Human sacrifices
are called tangata taboo; and when any thing is forbidden to be eat, or made use of, they say,
that is taboo. They tell us, that if the king should happen to go into a house belonging to
a subject, that house would be taboo, and could never be more inhabited by the owner; so that
wherever he travels, there are particular houses for his reception. Old Toobou at this time
presided over the taboo, that is, if Omai comprehended the matter rightly, he and his deputies
inspected all the produce of the island, taking care that every man should cultivate and plant
his quota, and ordering what should he eat, and what not. By this wise regulation, they effectually
guard against a famine; a sufficient quantity of ground is employed in raising provisions,
and every article thus raised, is secured from unnecessary waste.

By another prudent regulation in their government, they have an officer over the police, or
something like it. This department, when we were amongst them, was administered by Feenou,
whose business, we were told, it was to punish all offenders, whether against the state, or
against individuals. He was also generalissimo, and commanded the warriors when called out
upon service; but by all accounts this is very seldom. The king frequently took some pains
to inform us of Feenou's office; and, among other things, told us, that if he himself should
become a bad man, Feenou would kill him. What I understood by this expression of being a bad
man, was, that if he did not govern according to law, or custom, Feenou would be ordered, by
the other great men, or the people at large, to put him to death. There should seem to be no
doubt, that a sovereign thus liable to be controuled, and punished for an abuse of power, cannot
be called a despotic monarch.

When we consider the number of islands that compose this little state, and the distance at
which some of them lie from the seat of government, attempts to throw off the yoke, and to
acquire independency, it should seem, might be apprehended. But they tell us that this never
happens. One reason why they are not thus disturbed, by domestic quarrels, may be this: That
all the powerful chiefs, as we have already mentioned, reside at Tongataboo. They also secure
the dependence of the other islands, by the celerity of their operations; for if, at any time,
a troublesome and popular man should start up in any of them, Feenou, or whoever holds his
office, is immediately dispatched thither to kill him. By this means, they crush a rebellion
in its very infancy.

The orders, or classes, amongst their chiefs, or those who call themselves such, seemed to
be almost as numerous as amongst us; but there are few, in comparison, that are lords of large
districts of territory, the rest holding their lands under those principal barons, as they
may be called. I was indeed told, that when a man of property dies, everything he leaves behind
him falls to the king; but that it is usual to give it to the eldest son of the deceased, with
an obligation to make a provision out of it for the rest of the children. It is not the custom
here, as at Otaheite, for the son, the moment he is born, to take from the father the homage
and title, but he succeeds to them at his decease, so that their form of government is not
only monarchical, but hereditary.

The order of succession to the crown has not been of late interrupted; for we know, from a
particular circumstance, that the Futtafaihes (Poulaho being only an addition to distinguish
the king from the rest of the family) have reigned in a direct line, for at least one hundred
and thirty-five years. Upon enquiring, whether any account had been preserved amongst them,
of the arrival of Tasman's ships, we found that this history had been handed down to them from
their ancestors, with an accuracy which marks, that oral tradition may sometimes be depended
upon. For they described the two ships as resembling ours, mentioning the place where they
had anchored, their having staid but a few days, and their moving from that station to Annamooka.
And by way of informing us how long ago this had happened, they told us the name of the Futtafaihe
who was then king, and of those who had succeeded, down to Poulaho, who is the fifth since
that period, the first being an old man at the time of the arrival of the ships.

From what has been said of the present king, it would be natural to suppose, that he had the
highest rank of any person in the islands. But, to our great surprise, we found it is not so;
for Latoolibooloo, the person who was pointed out to me as king, when I first visited Tongataboo,
and three women, are, in some respects, superior to Poulaho himself. On our enquiring who these
extraordinary personages were, whom they distinguish by the name and title of Tammaha?[191]
we were told, that the late king, Poulaho's father, had a sister of equal rank, and elder than
himself; that she, by a man that came from the island of Feejee, had a son and two daughters,
and that these three persons, as well as their mother, rank above Futtafaihe the king.

[Footnote 191: The reader need not be reminded that Tamoloa, which signifies a chief, in the
dialect of Hamao, and Tammaha, become the same word, by the change of a single letter, the
articulation of which is not very strongly marked.--D.]

We endeavoured, in vain, to trace the reason of this singular pre-eminence of the Tammahas,
for we could learn nothing besides this account of their pedigree. The mother, and one of the
daughters called Tooeela-kaipa, live at Vavaoo. Latoolibooloo, the son, and the other daughter,
whose name is Moungoula-kaipa, reside at Tongataboo. The latter is the woman who is mentioned
to have dined with me on the 21st of June. This gave occasion to our discovering her superiority
over the king, who would not eat in her presence, though she made no scruple to do so before
him, and received from him the customary obeisance, by touching her foot. We never had an opportunity
of seeing him pay this mark of respect to Latoolibooloo, but we have observed him leave off
eating, and have his victuals put aside, when the latter came into the same house. Latoolibooloo
assumed the privilege of taking any thing from the people, even if it belonged to the king;
and yet, in the ceremony called Natche, he assisted only in the same manner as the other principal
men. He was looked upon, by his countrymen, as a madman; and many of his actions seemed to
confirm this judgment. At Eooa, they shewed me a good deal of land said to belong to him; and
I saw there a son of his, a child, whom they distinguished by the same title as his father.
The son of the greatest prince in Europe could not be more humoured and caressed than this
little Tammaha was.

The language of the Friendly Islands has the greatest affinity imaginable to that of New Zealand,
of Wateeoo, and Mangeea; and, consequently, to that of Otaheite and the Society Islands. There
are also many of their words the same with those used by the natives of Cocos Island, as appears
from the vocabulary collected there by Le Maire and Schouten.[192] The mode of pronunciation
differs, indeed, considerably, in many instances, from that both of New Zealand and Otaheite,
but still a great number of words are either exactly the same, or so little changed, that their
common original may be satisfactorily traced. The language, as spoken at the Friendly Islands,
is sufficiently copious for all the ideas of the people; and we had many proofs of its being
easily adapted to all musical purposes, both in song and in recitative, besides being harmonious
enough in common conversation. Its component parts, as far as our scanty acquaintance with
it enabled us to judge, are not numerous; and, in some of its rules, it agrees with other known
languages. As for instance, we could easily discern the several degrees of comparison, as used
in the Latin, but none of the inflections of nouns and verbs.

[Footnote 192: See this vocabulary, at the end of vol. ii. of Dalrymple's Collection of Voyages.
And yet, though Tasman's people used the words of this vocabulary in speaking to the natives
of Tongataboo, (his Amsterdam,) we are told, in the accounts of his voyage, that they did not
understand one another;--a circumstance worth observing, as it shews how cautious we should
be, upon the scanty evidence afforded by such transient visits as Tasman's, and, indeed, as
those of most of the subsequent navigators of the Pacific Ocean, to found any argument about
the affinity, or want of affinity, of the languages of the different islands. No one, now,
will venture to say, that a Cocos man, and one of Tongataboo, could not understand each other.
Some of the words of Horn Island, another of Schouten's discoveries, also belong to the dialect
of Tongataboo.--See Dalrymple, as above.--D.]

We were able to collect several hundreds of the words; and, amongst these, are terms that express
numbers as far as a hundred thousand, beyond which they never would reckon. It is probable,
indeed, that they are not able to go farther; for, after having got thus far, we observed,
that they commonly used a word which expresses an indefinite number. A short specimen, selected
from the larger vocabulary, is here inserted, with the corresponding words, of the same signification,
as used at Otaheite, on the opposite column; which, while it will give, as we may say, ocular
demonstration of their being dialects of the same language, will, at the same time, point out
the particular letters, by the insertion, omission, or alteration of which, the variations
of the two dialects, from each other, have been effected.

It must be observed, however, that our vocabularies of this sort must necessarily be liable
to great mistakes. The ideas of those, from whom we were to learn the words, were so different
from ours, that it was difficult to fix them to the object of enquiry. Or, if this could be
obtained, to learn an unknown tongue from an instructor who did not know a single word of any
language that his scholar was conversant with, could not promise to produce much. But even
when these difficulties were surmounted, there still remained a fruitful source of mistake,
I mean, inaccuracy in catching exactly the true sound of a word, to which our ears had never
been accustomed, from persons whose mode of pronunciation was, in general, so indistinct, that
it seldom happened that any two of us, in writing down the fame word, from the same mouth,
made use of the same vowels in representing it. Nay, we even, very commonly, differed about
consonants, the sounds of which are least liable to ambiguity. Besides all this, we found,
by experience, that we had been led into strange corruptions of some of the most common words,
either from the natives endeavouring to imitate us, or from our having misunderstood them.
Thus, cheeto was universally used by us, to express a thief, though totally different from
the real word, in the language of Tongataboo. The mistake arose from a prior one, into which
we had run, when at New Zealand. For though the word that signifies thief there, be absolutely
the same that belongs to the dialect of the Friendly Islands, (being kaeehaa at both places,)
yet by some blunder, we had used the word teete, first at New Zealand, and afterwards at Tongataboo,
on our arrival there. The natives, endeavouring to imitate us as nearly as they could, and
so fabricating the word cheeto; this, by a complication of mistakes, was adopted by us as their
own. Great care has been taken to make the following table as correct as possible:--

   English.                 Friendly Islands.        Otaheite.
   The sun,               Elaa,                      Eraa.
   Fire,                  Eafoi,                     Eahoi.
   Thunder,               Fatoore,                   Pateere.
   Rain,                  Ooha,                      Eooa.
   The wind,              Matangee,                  Mataee.
   Warm,                  Mafanna,                   Mahanna.
   The clouds,            Ao,                        Eao.
   Land,                  Fonooa,                    Fenooa.
   Water,                 Avy,                       Evy.
   Sleep,                 Mohe,                      Moe.
   A man,                 Tangata,                   Taata.
   A woman,               Vefaine,                   Waheine.
   A young girl,          Taheine,                   Toonea.

   A servant, or person Tooa,                      Toutou, or teou.
       of mean rank,

   The dawn, or          Aho                        Aou.
     daybreak,

   English.                 Friendly Islands.         Otaheite.
   The hair,              Fooroo,                     Eroroo.
   The tongue,            Elelo,                      Erero.
   The ear,               Tareenga,                   Tareea.
   The beard,             Koomoo,                     Ooma.
   The sea,               Tahee,                      Taee.
   A boat, or canoe,    Wakka,                      Evaa.
   Black,                 Oole,                       Ere.
   Red,                   Goola,                      Oora, oora.
   A lance, or spear,   Tao,                        Tao.
   A parent,              Motooa,                     Madooa.
   What is that?          Kohaeea?                    Yahaeea?
   To hold fast,          Amou,                       Mou.

   To wipe or clean    Horo,                       Haroee.
     any thing,

   To rise up,            Etoo,                       Atoo.
   To cry, or shed tears, Tangee,                    Taee.
   To eat, or chew,     Eky,                         Ey.
   Yes,                   Ai,                          Ai.
   No,                    Kaee,                        Aee.
   You,                   Koe,                         Oe.
   I,                     Ou,                          Wou.
   Ten,                   Ongofooroo,                  Ahooroo.

Having now concluded my remarks on these islands and people, I shall take my final leave of
them, after giving some account of the astronomical and nautical observations that were made
during our stay.

And, first, I must take notice, that the difference of longitude, between Annamooka and Tongataboo,
is somewhat less than was marked in the chart and narrative of my last voyage. This error might
easily arise, as the longitude of each was then found without any connection with the other.
But now the distance between them is determined to a degree of precision, that excludes all
possibility of mistake, which the following table will illustrate:--

   The latitude of the observatory at Tongataboo,
        by the mean of several observations           21°    8'    19"S.

   The longitude, by the mean of one hundred
      and thirty-one sets of lunar observations,
      amounting to above a
      thousand observed distances, between
      the moon, son, and stars                        184°   55'   88"E.

   The difference of longitude, made by
      the time-keeper, between the above
      observatory and that at Anamooka                 0    16     0

   Hence, the longitude of Annamooka is               185    11    18 E.
      By the time    {Greenwich rate                  186    12    27
      keeper it is   {New Zealand rate                184    37     0
      Its latitude                                     20    15     0

N.B. The observatory at Tongataboo was near the middle of the N. side of the island, and that
at Annamooka on its W. side.

The time-keeper was too slow for mean time at Greenwich, on the first of July at noon, by 12h
34m 23',2; and her daily rate, at that time, was losing on mean time 1',783 per day. This rate
will now be used for finding the longitude by the time-keeper, and 184° 55' 18", or 12h 19m
41',2, will be taken as the true longitude of Tongataboo, E. from. Greenwich.

By the mean of several observations, the S. end of the needle was found to dip,

   At Leefooga, one of the Hepaee islands              36°  55'
      Tongataboo                                       39    1 1/2
   The variation of the compass was found to be

   At Annamooka, on board                               0°  30'  3  1/2"E,
     Anchor off Kotoo, between Annamooka
       and Hepaee                                       0   12   29 1/2
     Anchor off Leefooga                               10   11   40
     Tongataboo, on board                               9   44    5 1/2
     Ditto, on shore                                   10   12   58

I can assign no reason why the variation is so much less at and near Annamooka, than at either
of the two places. I can only say, that there is no fault in the observations; and that the
variation ought to be more at Annamooka than the above, as it has been found to be so to the
northward, southward, eastward, and westward of it. But disagreements in the variation, greater
than this, even in the same needle, have been often observed. And I should not have taken notice
of this instance, but from a belief that the cause, whatever it is, exists in the place, and
not in the needles, for Mr Bayley found the same, or rather more difference.

The tides are more considerable at these islands, than at any other of my discoveries in this
ocean, that lie within the tropics. At Annamooka it is high water, on the full and change days,
nearly at six o'clock; and the tide rises and falls there, upon a perpendicular, about six
feet. In the harbour of Tongataboo, it is high water on the full and change days, at fifty
minutes past six. The tide rises and falls on those days, four feet nine inches, and three
feet six inches at the Quadratures. In the channels between the islands, which lie in this
harbour, it flows near tide and half-tide, that is, the flood continues to run up near three
hours, after it is high water by the shore, and the ebb continues to run down, after it is
flood by the shore. It is only in these channels, and in a few other places near the shores,
that the motion of the water or tide is perceivable, so that I can only guess at the quarter
from which the flood comes. In the road of Annamooka, it sets W.S.W., and the ebb the contrary;
but it falls into the harbour of Tongataboo from the N.W., passes through the two narrow channels,
on each side of Hoolaiva, where it runs with considerable rapidity, and then spends itself
in the lagoon. The ebb returns the same way, and runs with rather greater force. The N.W. tide
is met, at the entrance of the lagoon, by one from the E.; but this, as I have before observed,
was found to be very inconsiderable.[193]

[Footnote 193: Tongataboo has been visited several times by Europeans since Cook's last voyage,
viz. by Perouse, in 1787; by Captain Edwards, in 1791; by D'Entrecasteaux, in 1793; and by
some of the missionaries, in 1797. From the accounts furnished by some of these visits, several
particulars might have been added to what has now been delivered. But they are comparatively
unimportant, and did not seem to warrant any specific regard. Besides, if they had been more
considerable, it would have been improper to anticipate what belongs to another part of our
work. On the whole, however, the information given by Captain Cook, and his associate Mr Anderson,
will ever be esteemed a faithful and very valuable description of an interesting island and
people.--E.]

A VOCABULARY OF THE LANGUAGE OF THE FRIENDLY ISLES,

May, &c. 1777.

       *       *       *       *       *

   Friendly Isles.           English.
   Ve faine,                   A woman.
   Maiee,                      Bread-fruit.
   Fukkaton,                   Barter.
   Woa,                        Admiration.
   My, fogge,                  Good.
   Attahoa,                    A bead; a necklace.
   Koehau, or Kohaeea?         What is that? or what is the
                                      name of it?
   Magoo,                      Give me.
   Le laiee,                   Good.
   Hou,                        Come here.
   Moree,                      A shaddock.
   Omee,                       Give me.
   Hobba,                      A sort of plantain.
   Koajee, or Kaoojee,  Done; finished.
   Koeea,                      Yes; it is so.
   Amou,                       Got; to holdfast.
   Horo, horo,                 A handkerchief, or wiper.
   Ongofooroo,                 Ten.
   Gehai, or geefai,         There; and that.

   Friendly Isles.          English.
   Kato,                      A basket.
   Egeeai,                    A mat they wear round them.
   Fooroo, or fooloo,       Hair.
   Fooee vy,                  The leg.
   Tooa, vy,                  Upperpart of the foot.
   Fooloo, fooloo, matta,     The eyebrow.
   Emamae,                    Painted plantains.
   Evatta vatta,              The breast.
   Eboore,                    Ditto.
   Etooa,                     The back.
   Erongootoo,                The lips.
   Elelo,                     The tongue.
   Edainga,                   The thigh.
   Eraimoo,                   The hips.
   Evae, veene,               The arm pit.
   Too,                       The finger.
   Vakka, vakka,              The side.
   Hekaite,                   The belly.
   Tareenga,                  The ear.
   Horo,                      To wipe.
   Kouta,                     Beating with two sticks.
   Fangoo, fangoo,            A flute.
   Motoo,                     To break.
   Koooma,                    Burnt circular marks.
   Taffa,                     Raised marks burnt.
   Kowy,                      The cheeks.
   Koomoo, koomoo,            The beard.
   Peeto,                     The navel,
   Eoo,                       The nipple.
   Etarre,                    To cough,
   Hengatoo,                  Cloth.
   Efangoo,                   To sneeze.
   Eanoo,                     To spit.
   Etoogee,                   To beat, or strike.
   Etooee,                    The elbow.
   Efeelo,                    A small rope, or thread.
   Haro, or halo,           Go; begone.
   Egeea,                     The throat.
   Eky,                       To eat, or chew.
   Evagoo,                    To scratch.
   Ma matta,                  Let me look, or see.
   Egeea,                     The neck.

   Friendly Isles.            English.
   Enofoa, haioo,               A seat.
   Etoo,                        To rise up.
   Mamao,                       To yawn.
   Ehapee,                      A box, or chest.
   Moe, or mohe,              Sleep.
   Tangooroo,                   To snore.
   Ekatta,                      To laugh.
   Akka,                        To kick, or stamp.
   Feedjee,                     A fillup.
   Ekakava,                     Sweat.
   Eeoho,                       To bellow, or cry.
   Epooo,                       A post, or staunchion.
   Etolle,                      A hatchet.
   Maalava,                     To breathe.
   Haila,                       To pant.
   Oooo,                        To bite.
   Taffa,                       To cut.
   Moevae,                      The heel.
   Eeegoo,                      The tail of a dog.
   Mapoo,                       To whistle,
   Aipa,                        A fishing-hook.
   Ainga,                       A sort of paint.
   Evaika,                      A rail.
   Kooroo kooroo,               A green dove.
   Ekoopamea, cheele,           A net.
   Efooo,                       A gimlet, or shark's tooth used
                                 for that purpose.
   Aiee,                        A fan.
   Emaimeea, or meemeea,      A reed, or small organ.
   Eneeoo,                      A cocoa-nut.
   Eoono,                       Tortoise shell.
   Enoo,                        A belt.
   Afooneema,                   The palm of the hand.
   Moemoeea,                    A ceremony of putting the foot
                                 of one on the head, and turning
                                 the hand several times, &c.
   Pooa, tareenga,               A sort of plantains.
   Kahaoo hoonga,               An arrow, or reed.
   Atoe farre,                  The roof of a house.
   Etovee,                      A club.
   Emamma,                      A ring.
   Eao,                         A hat.

   Friendly Isles              English.
   Tehou,                       A hundred.
   Keeroo,                      A thousand.
   Laoo varee,                  Ten thousand.
   Laoo noa,                    A hundred thousand, or the
                                 greatest number they can reckon.
   Poooree,                     Night; darkness.
   Maheena,                     A month.
   Fukkataane,                  To sit cross-legged.
   Kaffa,                       A rope, or cord of cocoa-nut
                                 core.
   Heegee,                      To lift up.
   Togoo,                       To set down,
   Fetooa tagee,                To tie.
   Vevaite,                     To untie,
   Tollo, tolla,                Cocoa-nut skin.
   Eooma,                       The shoulder.
   Fooo,                        A nail (of iron).
   Atoo,                        To give.
   Epallo,                      A rat.
   Elafo,                       To throw away.
   Haaile,                      To go.
   Haaile atoo,                 To go away.
   Haaile my,                   To come.
   Elooa,                       To puke.
   Matangee,                    Wind.
   Mamma, or mamma, reeva,    Light.
   Tahee,                       The sea.
   Paho paho,                   To paddle.
   Hakaoo, or toree,          Wood; a tree.
   Ehoreeoo,                    To scoop water out of a boat.
   Booloo booloo,               A sail.
   Fanna, or fanna tooeeoroongo  A  Mast
   Toula,                       A hook.
   Tamadje,                     A child.
   Tangee,                      To weep.
   Elango,                      A fly.
   Haingoo, toolaiee,           A tropic-bird.
   Epalla                       A bird's tail.
   Kapukou,                     A wing.
   Hepoona,                     To fly.

   Friendly Isles.             English.
   Togotto                       To lie down,
   Feenakka,                     A bird cage.
   Eallo,                        The rolling of a ship.
   Etooee,                       A needle.
   Epeepeege,                    A girl that is a maid.
   Efonno,                       A turtle.
   Maia,                         A thing.
   Mahee maia,                   Give me something.
   Koeea,                        Yes, it is.
   Geelee,                       A file.
   Owo,                          Wait a little.
   Temadoo,                      Shall I come?
   Kaee, or Eekaee,            No.
   Kafae,                        A blue coat.
   Oloonga,                      A stool.
   Takkabou,                     A coarse mat to sleep upon.
   Kakulla,                      A sweet smell, sweet smelled.
   Namooa,                       To smell; smell it.
   Koe,                          It is; as Koe maa, it is food;
                                  Koe maiee, it is fruitful.
   Koatoooo,                     A king-fisher.
   Mogo,                         A lizard.
   Toutou,                       A card.
   Matte laiva,                  Dead.
   Moeha,                        More.
   Veenaga,                      Fine, charming, wonderful.
   Tougge my,                    Bring it here.
   Ai, (long,) angrily,        No.
   Tamma,                        Boy, man, friend, calling to one.
   Eeekoou,                      Here am I; answering one who
                                  calls.
   Haloo,                        Go; to go.
   Hengalo,                      At a distance, a great way off.
   Eafee, or Eafoi,            Hire.
   Yehaeea, (inquisitively,)   What is that?
   Kohaee koa, or kowykoa,     What is your name?
   Kovee, or Koveeeea,         Bad.
   Bongee, bongee,               To-morrow.
   Peepee,                       A pair of scissors.
   Chenna,                       Friend, I say; hark ye.
   Geelee, or geeree,          The skin.
   Etchee,                       To peel a cocoa-nut.

   Friendly Isles.              English.
   Taha pai,                     One thing, as a day, &c.
   Totto,                        Blood.
   Roatoo,                       Shall I go.
   Whakae,                       Look, see.
   Whakae my,                    Let me see it.
   Arooweevo,                    Below; to let down a rope, or
                                   to go down over the ship's side
                                   to trade.
   Aingy,                        Large clams, or cockles.
   Beegee,                       A chief.
   Eatooa,                       God.
   A bo,                         To-night, at night.
   Any,                          Presently, by and by.
   Elangee,                      The sky.
   Elaa,                         The sun.
   Ao,                           Clouds.
   Jeela,                        A canoe's yard.
   Laa,                          A sail.
   Falle wakaeea,                The hut in a large canoe.
   Faee,                         To play.
   Tallafoo,                     The fire-place in a large boat.
   Goolee,                       A sort of windlass, or belaying
                                  place for the rope of their
                                  sail.
   Tataa,                        A scoop for bailing out a boat.
   Taia,                         White.
   Oolee,                        Black.
   Goola,                        Red.
   Ohooafee,                     Smoke.
   Geeai,                        A close kind of mat.
   Fofooa,                       Pimples.
   Maaloonga,                    High, mountainous.
   Mai,                          Motions with the hands in dancing.
   Touvaa,                       A cap, or bonnet, they wear to
                                  shade them from the sun.
   Majeela,                      A large bamboo fishing-rod.
   Pai,                          A thing.
   Mamahee,                      Pain.
   Echee, or eeke,             Small, little.
   Cheeatta,                     A looking-glass.
   Tangameeme,                   A bladder.

   Friendly Isles,               English.
   Goobainga,                    A fishing-net.
   Elillo,                       Below, underneath.
   Faee,                         To shave.
   Motooa,                       A parent.
   Moumy,                        To paddle, or row.
   Avy, ava, or govy,          A harbour, or
                                 anchoring-place.
   Po, taha, pai,                In one day.
   Ebaika,                       A large bat.
   Kakaa,                        A parrot.
   Tooge,                        Marks on the cheek,
                                  made by beating.
   Nono,                         To hide a thing.
   Fonooa, or Kaeenga,         Land.
   Beeoo,                        A palm which bean clusters of
                                  very small nuts.
   Haoomoo,                      A large blunt sort of plantains.
   Goolo,                        A globular earthen pot,
                                  or vessel.
   Manga, mangatei,              A large blue star-fish.
   Hainga,                       A parroquet.
   Maagonna,                     Full, satisfied with eating.
   Maheena,                      The moon.
   Teeleeamoo,                   A secret.
   Fonooa bou,                   A land of plenty.
   Oobai,                        A song.
   Foolehaioo,                   The green wattle bird.
   Pailoo,                       A spoon.
   Kulle, velaive,               A large white spider, with
                                  brown and white legs.
   Fageeta,                      A ceremony of kissing, &c. on a
                                  new acquaintance.
   Goomaa,                       A rat.
   Agoota, oomoo,                To put a thing in an oven.
   Oomoo,                        An oven.
   Eadda,                        A path.
   Mattabaa,                     A door.
   Togga,                        A large stick used as a bar behind
                                  the door.
   Koheeabo,                     The paper mulberry-plant.
   Faa,                          Palm, called Pandanas.
   Tangata, or tangatta,       A man.
   Taheina,                      A child.

   Friendly Isles.             English.
   Onne, onne,                  White sand.
   Pai,                         Ripe, old.
   Ea,                          A fence made of bamboo, &c.
   Toee,                        The wood which they make their
                                  canoes of.
   Mafaee,                      Wasp's nests built in the pod of
                                  a plant.
   Kappe,                       A large cylindrical edible root.
   Ongo, ongo,                   A small palm growing to the
                                 height of eight feet.
   Gooholla,                    It is gone, or flown.
   Mai, kawaia,                  To take away a thing.
   Mai, Evaheeoo,                To let a thing remain.
   Kaeenga,                      Land, or property the shore.
   Fyatooka,                     A burying-place.
   Woee,                         Admiration.
   Koeee,                        A fan.
   Waggee hou,                   Let it alone.
   Bai,                          Great.
   Laika, laika,                 Good.
   Ooo,                          A crayfish.
   Feengafee,                    A black and white mat.
   Aingatooeea,                  Stained red rushes, which they
                                  wear round the waist.
   An, any,                      A little while ago.
   Hengatoo,                     Glazed cloth which they wear.
   Falla,                        A thick strong mat.
   Mahagee,                      A sort of ulcer, that leaves large
                                  laced scars.
   Akkaree,                      A stool to lay the head on when
                                  asleep.
   Naffa,                        A large cylindrical piece of wood,
                                  hollowed with a slit, which
                                  serves as a drum.
   Toa,                         A spear.
   Etanno,                       To bury under ground.
   Afai,                         When.
   Otoogoo,                      Finished.
   Maree, or mareeai,          Well done; an acclamation.
   Fafa,                         To carry one on the back.
   Mamao,                        A great way; distant.
   Meedje, meedje,               To drink out of a cocoa-nut.

   Friendly Isles.            English.
   Matta,                       The face.
   Ty, or Etae,                 Excrement.
   Faitanoo,                    A sort of pepper-tree, the juice
                                 of which is very acrid.
   Nafee, nafee,                A fine white sort of mat.
   Abee,                        A house to sleep in.
   Touaa,                       A square bonnet.
   Fukke, fety,                 To give a thing gratis, or for
                                 friendship's sake.
   Tooa, or Tooaeea,            A servant, or person of inferior
                                 rank.
   Fukkatooa,                   A challenging motion, made by
                                 striking the hand on the bend
                                 of the opposite arm.
   Kaeehya, or kaeehaa,         A thief.
   Fooloo,                      A quill.
   Moojeekakka,                 A basket made of cocoa-nut core,
                                 and white beads.
   Mahanga,                     A brother.
   Macele,                      An odoriferous shrub, planted
                                     near the Fyatooka.
   Fofolla,                     To unfold a piece of cloth.
   Kotjee,                      None.
   Taboone,                     To close, or shut; a partition
                                 or skreen.
   Too,                         To draw back a curtain, or
                                 skreen.
   Ava,                         A window; hole.
   Fonooa, foohoo,              A land of warriors.
   Taboo,                       Not to touch a thing.
   Goomoo; goomoo,              A species of lichen, that grows
                                 plentifully on some trees.
   Laiva,                       For good and all; certainly.
   Bagooee,                     A prickly star-fish.
   Bedjeeloa,                   A crab, with black claws.
   Fae,                         A sister.
   Makka fatoo,                 Coral rock.
   Gailee, gailee,              Dirt.
   Maa,                         Clean.
   Ma, tagge tagge,             Let me look at it.
   Konna,                       Poison.
   Fekaee, or smalte, fekaee.   Hunger.

     Friendly Isles,              English.
   Matte, fee aeenoo,            Thirst.
   Aieenoo,                      To drink.
   Awhainne,                     Near at hand.
   Monoo,                        An expression of thanks.
   Mattahoa,                     Very good.
   Toooa,                        Both, we; both of us.
   Fooa, repeated,             A great number.
   Boola,                        Small white shells.
   Anoo, anoo,                   To swim.
   Anga,                         A man.
   Haile,                        A knife.
   Haile, fofoo,                 A knife that shuts.
   Adoo,                         Give it; to give.
   Geehea,                       Which, or what.
   Tohagge,                      Let me look at, or see it.
   Namoogoo,                     A stink, or bad smell.
   Narooo, kakulla,              A sweet smell.
   Boobooa, tahee,               Salt.
   Meeme,                        Urine.
   Owo, owo, owo,                No, no, no.
   Fohee,                        To peel a plantain.
   Ajeeneu,                      A vessel to put drink in.
   Tangee, fe toogee,            Striking the cheeks on the death
                                  of their relations.
   Mamaha,                       Coral rock under water.
   Oohee,                        A species of diosma.
   Mawhaha,                      An excellent root like a potatoe.
   Baa,                          A crackling noise; to crack, or
                                  snap.
   Boogo,                        The largest sort of tree in the
                                  islands.
   Taifo,                        A mullet.
   Amou,                         Whole; sound; true; valid.
   Faigeeaika,                   Iambos.
   Kakou,                        A shoal, or reef, on which the
                                      sea breaks.

   Shainga (in the language   No; there is none.
      of Feejee),

   Fangoo,                       A small calibash shell.
   Oore, oore,                   Black.
   Looloo,                       An owl.
   Murroo,                       Soft.

      Friendly Isles.        English.
   Faifaika,                    Hard.
   Feengotta,                   A sort of shell.
   Wouainee,                    I am here; i.e. when called
                                 upon.
   Mahaggee, fatoo,             A dropsy.
   Goee enee,                   Near at hand.
   Fukka, ma fooa,              An arbour in which they catch
                                 pigeons, &c.
   Fatooree,                    Thunder.
   A faa,                       A Storm; lightning.
   Toufarre,                    A besom.
   Tongo,                       A wood, of which bows are made.
   Ooha,                        Rain.
   Tooboo,                      To grow.
   Tawagge, totto,              The red-tailed tropic bird.
   Kadjee,                      There is no more; or none.
   Fanna, fanna,                To wash the hands before meals.
   Mooonga,                     Mountains; a mountain.
   Keeneeo,                     Low land.
   Laoo allee,                  A great many; an endless number.
   Ogookaee,                    No; there is none.
   Laia, or koelaia,          Speech; words.
   Kaho,                        An arrow.
   Aieeboo,                     A vessel, or dish.
   Tooee,                       A club.
   Feila,                       To pull a rope.
   Eevee, aai,                  A cheer, in pulling a rope.
   Feilaa too,                  A word given by one, on pulling
                                 a rope, and the rest repeat
                                 Woa, as a response.
   Engago,                      Fat, or lard of a hog.
   Kanno, matte,                The lean part of meat.
   Kofooa,                      A kidney.
   Kollofeea,                   The name of the volcano on Tofooa.
   Moggocheea,                  Cold.
   Hooa,                        The going about, or tacking of
                                 a ship.
   Ongonna,                     To understand.
   Kaee ongonna,                I do not understand you.
   Mafanna,                     Warm.

   Friendly Isles.            English.
   Anapo,                       Last night.
   Fakkahooa,                   The southerly wind; or a foul
                                     wind.
   Looloo,                      To roll, as a ship.
   Matangee,                    The wind.
   Matangee anga, or}         The east and north wind, or a
     matangee leeoo,  }         fair wind.
   Amooee, or tamooree,       From behind.
   Amooa, or tamooa,          From before.
   Ahaa, or koehaa,           For what reason?
   Mohe fai,                    Where shall I sleep?
   Koo mafoore,                 To be along, or yield, as a
                                 ship close hauled.
   Palla,                       Rotten.
   Elooa,                       A hole.
   Molle, or molle molle,     Smooth.
   Keeai,                       A plant they make mats of; the
                                 cultivated Pandanus.
   Tongo laiee,                 Mangrove.
   Reemoo,                      Sea-weed.
   Fety,                        A term of friendship.
   Jeejee,                      Esculent dracaena.
   Taboo laia,                  Don't speak; hold your tongue.
   Toonoa,                      Dressed, cooked.
   Tohke,                       A measure.
   Toohagge,                    Let me see it.
   Taheine,                     A young girl; a daughter.
   Haine,                       Here.
   Baiahou,                     Swell of the sea.
   Maea,                        A rope.
   Otta,                        Raw; as raw meat.
   Moho,                        Meat well dressed.
   Maoo lillo,                  Low land.
   Moanua,                      Deep water; sea.
   Kae haia,                    Which is it you want?
   Vava tahee,                  Red coral.
   Feefy,                       A species of mimosa.
   Fatoo,                       The belly.
   Mee mee,                     To suck bones.
   Meedje meedje,               To suck as a child.
   Ooree,                       A rudder.
   Tainga,                      A seed of a plant.

    Friendly Isles,          English.
   Oolel teffe,                Incisions in the foreskin, which
                                contracting present its covering
                                the glans.
   Vefoo,                      To Hide a thing.
   Laifa,                      A silver-fish.
   Heenaheena,                 White; yellow.
   Feeoo,                      Acrid; bitter.
   Goomo,                      To look for a thing that is lost.
   Eeta,                       Angry.
   Aneafee,                    Yesterday.
   Gefai,                      Unknown; strange; as a strange
                                man.
   Fono,                       To eat.
   Kailee tokee,               A Panama-shell.
   Toffe,                      A sort of hammer oyster.
   Toogoo,                     Let it lie, or remain.
   Koehaa, hono, hengoa,       What is the name of it?
   Loee,                       To understand.
   Booga,                      To hold fast.
   Loloa,                      Long.
   Kotjee,                     To cut.
   Fatjee,                     To break.
   Fohenna,                    A son; a brother.
   Matee,                      A fig-tree.
   Lohee,                      A lie.
   Mato,                       Steep; high.
   Patoo,                     A stroke; to strike.
   Hooho,                      The breasts.
   Momoggo,                    Cold.
   Saiouhai,                   Admiration.
   Noo,                        Mine; of me.
   Valla,                      A piece of cloth worn round the
                                waist.
   Doooyoo, a matoo, eeoee,    A song in favour of a victor.
   Mulloo,                     Serene; settled; smooth.
   Vaitte,                     To untie a thing.
   Moheefo,                    Come down below.
   Fetagee; malowhee,          To fight.
   Tao,                        A spear.
   Eenee,                      Now; immediately.
   Mamanna; au manna manna,    Engaged; contracted to.
   Fukka, booakka,             An epithet of abuse; contempt.

   Friendly Isles.            English.
   Aleolo,                     To fan, or cool.
   Tammaha,                    Certain great chiefs.
   Tamolao,                    Chief.
   Mahae,                      A torn hole.
   Goefai,                     What is.
   Laoo,                       To count, or reckon.
   Manakko,                    To give.
   Fooo,                       New; lately made.
   Modooa,                     Old; worn.
   Maa,                        A sour plantain, by being put
                                under ground.
   Kaifoo,                     A brownish yellow.
   Eafee,                      To play on the flute.
   Mou afai,                   When do you go?
   Afaia,                      How many?
   Cheefa,                     A pearl oyster.
   Gooe, goee,                 A saw shell.
   Fotoohoa,                   A rock oyster.
   Ogoo,                       Of me; belonging to me.
   Lelange,                    To make.
   Behange,                    Let me see it.
   Foo,                        To box.
   Heeva,                      A song, with many women singing
                                different keys.
   Ooloo pokko,                The head.
   Koukou,                     To bathe.
   Mabba,                      A three-kernelled nut.
   Eelo,                       To know.
   Fotte, fotta,               To squeeze gently with the hands.
   Fangootooa,                 Wrestling.
   Momoho,                     Ripe.
   Koffe,                      Bamboo which they beat with on
                                the ground.
   Alla,                       I say.
   Waila,                      Hot.
   Pango,                      Bad.
   Orlongaa,                   Thread of which they make their
                                nets, or the plant.
   Monee,                      Truth.
   Anga,                       A shark.
   Laffa,                      Ringworm.
   Fooa,                       Fruit; flower.

   Friendly Isles.           English.
   Kokka,                      A tree they stain their cloth
                                brown with, i. e. the bark.
   Moooee,                     Alive; life; soul; God, or divine
                                spirit.
   Tooo,                       A tree, with the berries of which
                                they stain their cloth.
   Ogoohaika,                  Who shall I give this to? Who
                                shall I help?
   Maha,                       Finished; empty.
   Pagge,                      A little paddle they exercise
                                with.
   Faio,                       Small-branched coral.
   Cheeagge,                   To throw a thing away.
   Faiee tamma,                Pregnancy.
   Lalanga,                    To make.
   Vao,                        A wild uncultivated country.
   Neeoo goola,                Cabbage-tree.
   Routte,                     Hibiscus; rosa sinensis.
   Foa,                        A custom of beating the head
                                with a tooth till it bleeds.
   Cheelee neefo,              A custom of beating the teeth on
                                the same occasion.
   Hogga tainga,               A custom of thrusting a spear
                                into their thighs; also a
                                mourning ceremony.
   Toofatao,                   Thrusting a spear into the sides
                                under the arm-pits on these
                                occasions.
   Tooengootoo,                Doing the same through the
                                cheeks into the mouth.
   Kafoo,                      The garment they commonly
                                wear.
   Offa,                       A term of friendship; as,
   Taio offa,                  My friend, I am glad to see
                                you.
   Toofa,                      To divide, or share out food.
   Maeneene,                   To tickle.
   Hailulla,                   Sarcosma.
   Hooo,                       A wooden instrument with which
                                they clear away grass from
                                their fences.
   Aho,                        The dawn, or day-break.

   Friendly Isles.            English.
   Gooaa,                      Who is it?
   Avo,                        To go; or take away.
   Valle,                      Mad.
   Lelaiee a bee kovee,        Is it good, or bad?
   Taboonee,                   To shut, or close.
   Taae,                       To beat, or strike.
   Ahae,                       Who, or where.
   Mamaa,                      Light.
   Mamaffa,                    Heavy.
   Faike,                      A cuttle-fish.
   Vai veegoo,                 Wet; moist.

A VOCABULARY OF THE LANGUAGE OF ATOOI, ONE OF THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.

January, 1778.[194]

[Footnote 194: This Vocabulary properly belongs to a subsequent part of the voyage, but is
given here for the greater facility of comparison with the preceding, and as a fit companion
also to that of the Society Isles, inserted in a former part of the volume.--E.]

       *       *       *       *       *

   Atooi.                 English.
   Tehaia,                  Where.
   Mahaia,                  Ditto.
   Aorre, or Aoe,         No.
   He oho,                  The hair.
   E poo,                   The head.
   Papaiee aoo,             The ear.
   Heraee,                  The forehead.
   Matta,                   The eye.
   Pappareenga,             The cheek.
   Haieea,                  Fish.
   Eeeheu,                  The nose.
   Oome oome,               The beard.
   Haire,                   To go.
   Erawha,                  Tears of joy.
   Aee,                     The neck.
   Poheeve,                 The arm.
   Ooma ooma,               The breast.
   Heoo,                    The nipple.
   Peeto,                   The navel.

   Atooi.                 English,
   Hoohaa,                 The thigh.
   He,wawy,                The leg.
   Eroui,                  Wait a little.
   Areea,                  Wait a little.
   Myao,                   Finger and toe nails.
   Eeno,                   Bad.
   Hootee, hootee,         To pluck up, or out.
   Tooanna,                A brother.
   Teina,                  A younger brother.
   Otooma heeva,           A man's name.
   Nanna,                  Let me see it.
   Noho,                   To sit.
   Hoe,                    To go.
   Hooarra,                Sweet potatoes.
   E Taeeai,               Calling to one.
   Waheine,                A woman.
   Teeorre,                To throw away a thing.
   He, aieeree,            The skin.
   Ma, ty ty,              To look at, or survey a thing.
   Tommomy,                Come here.
   Erooi,                  To retch, to puke.
   Too,                    Sugar-cane.
   Maa mona,               Sweet or savoury food.
   Tooharre,               To spit.
   Matou,                  I, first person singular.
   My, ty,                 Good.
   Otaeaio,  }             Names of two chiefs.
   Terurotoa,}
   Oome,                   A great number.
   Poe,                    Taro pudding.
   Oohe,                   Yams.
   Booa,                   A hog.
   Eeneeoo,                Cocoa-nuts.
   Ono,                    To understand.
   Eetee,                  To understand, or know.
   Otae,                   A man's name.
   Maonna,                 Full, satisfied with eating.
   Owytooehainoa,          What is your name?
   Tanata,                 A man.
   Tangata,                Ditto.
   Pahoo,                  A drum.
   Ehoora,                 A kind of dance.

   Atooi.                English.
   Maro,                   A narrow stripe of cloth they
                            wear.
   Hoemy; harremy,         To come.
   Eroemy,                 Fetch it here.
   Taooa,                  We, first person plural.
   Toura,                  A rope.
   Ooroo,                  Bread-fruit.
   Etee,                   Dracaena.
   Appe,                   Virginian Arum.
   Matte,                  Dead.
   Aoonai,                 In a short time; presently.
   Paha,                   Perhaps.
   Ai,                     Yes.
   Ateera,                 Done; at an end.
   Hevaite,                To unfold.
   Noona,                  Above.
   Tapaia,                 To abide; to keep, or restrain
                            from going.
   Poore,                  A prayer.
   Tahouna,                A priest.
   Atee,                   To fetch, or bring.
   Meeme,                  To make water.
   Ehaia,                  Where.
   Poota,                  A hole.
   Mao,                    That way.
   Mareira,                This place.
   Eeo,                    There.
   Evaa,                   A canoe.
   Touroonoa,              A man's name.
   My ty,                  Let me look.
   Aieeboo,                A vessel of gourd shell.
   Ahewaite,               Mullus cretaceus.
   Opoore,                 Sparus parvus punctatus.
   Taee,                   The sea.
   Evy,                    Fresh water.
   Aiva,                   A harbour.
   Eerotto,                Within, into.
   Owyte eree,             What is the chief's name?
   Toneoneo,               A chief's name.
   Motoo,                  To tear, or break.
   Toe,                    A stone adze.
   Vaheoo,                 Let it lie, or remain.

   Atooi.                English.
   Haieehe,                A barbed dart.
   Hooroo manoo,           Birds' feathers.
   Motoo,                  An island.
   Hamoea,                 A ceremony of clapping the
                            hands to the head, and prostrating
                            themselves to the chief.
   Worero,                 Lost; stole.
   Aeenoo,                 To drink.
   Tehaia, orooa,          Where are you?
   Ou,                     I, first person singular.
   Eunai,                  Here; at this place.
   Pororee,                Hunger; hungry.
   Hereema,                A species of Sida.
   Meere, meere,           To look at, or behold.
   Moa,                    A fowl.
   Manoo,                  A bird.
   Dirro,                  Below.
   Modooa, tanne,          Father.
   Modooa, waheme,         Mother.
   Naiwe, nawie,           Pleasant; agreeable.
   Hai raa,               The sun.
   Hairanee,              The sky.
   Abobo,                 To-morrow.
   Heaho,                 A small rope.
   Tereira,               There; that way.
   Pymy,                  Throw it here.
   Ewououtte,             Morus Papyrif.
   Moe,                   To sleep.
   Nooe,                  Large.
   Poowha,                To yawn.
   Ahaia,                 When; at what time.
   Wehai,                 To uncover and undo a thing.
   Tooto,                 A small straw rope.
   Eaha, nai,             What is this?
   Maeea,                 Plantains.
   Parra,                 Ripe; as, ripe fruit.
   Toe, toe,              Cold.
   Matanee,               The wind.
   Etoo,                  To rise up.
   Haireetoo,             To go there.
   Hoatoo,                To give.

   Atooi.                 English.
   Eeapo,                 Night.
   Eahoiahoi,              Evening.
   Oora,                   Red feathers.
   Teehe,                  A present of cloth.
   Herairemy,              A place on which fruit is laid as
                            an offering to God.
   Henananoo,              A square pile of wicker-work,
                            or religious obelisk.
   Hereeere,              A burying-ground.
   Eteepappa,             The inside of a burying-ground.
   Harre,                 A house.
   Harre pahoo,           A drum-house in a burying-ground.
   Heneene,               A wall, the wall of a burying-ground.
   Heho,                  A stone set up in a burying-ground,
                           consecrated to the
                           Deity.
   Eatooa,                A god.
   Tangaroa,              The name of the god of the place
                           we were at.
   None,                  Morinda citrifolia.
   Hereanee,              Small twig things in a burying-ground.
   Hemanaa,               A house, or hut, where they
                           bury their dead.
   Herooanoo,             Wooden images in a burying-house.
   Tooraipe,              A kind of head-dress, or helmet
                           on an image.
   Eahoi,                 Hire.
   Pohootoo noa,          A cream-coloured whet-stone.
   Poota paire,           A district, at the western part of
                           the isle.
   Eonnotaine,            A short cloak of black and white
                           feathers.
   Ottahoinoo,            One article, or thing.
   Epappa,                A board used to swim upon.
   Oneete,                A kind of cloth.
   Heorro taire,          A small scarlet bird, or merops
                           scarlatina.
   Taa,                   An interjection of admiration.

   Atooi.                  English.
   Epoo,                  A bracelet of a single shell.
   Eou,                   To swim.
   Tearre,                Gardenia, or Cape Jasmine.
   Heoudoo,               A refusal; I will not do it, or
                             take that for this.

   Eeorre,               A rat.
   Ehooo,                 A gimblet, or any instrument to
                              bore with.
   Epaoo, or ooapa,      There is no more; it is done, or
                              finished.
   Matou,                A particular sort of fish-hook.
   Erahoi, dehoi,        Thin; as, thin cloth, board, &c.
   Pattahaee, or he roui,A sort of musical instrument or
                         rattle, ornamented with red
                          feathers.
   Eappanai,             A plume of feathers they wear.
   Etooo,                The Cordia sebestina.
   Whatte,               To break.
   Oeea,                 Yes; it is so.
   Heoreeoree,           A song.
   Paraoo,               A wooden bowl.
   Apooava,              A shallow wooden dish they
                             drink Ava out of.
   Etoohe, toohee,       A particular sort of cloth.
   Ootee, or otee, otee, To cut.
   Pappaneeheomano,      A wooden instrument beset with
                            shark's teeth, used to cut up
                            those they kill.
   Maheine,              A wife.
   Homy,                 Give me.
   Moena, or moenga,     A mat to sleep on.
   Eeno,                 An adjunct, when they express
                             any thing good, though by
                             itself, it signifies bad. Thus
                             they say, Erawha eeno, good
                             greeting, as the Otaheitans
                             say, Ehoa eeno, or my good
                             friend.
   Taboo, or tafoo,       Any thing not to be touched, as
                             being forbid. This is an example
                             that shews the transmutation
                             of the H, F, and B,

   Atooi.                      English.
                           into each other. Thus at Otaheite
                             yams are oohe, at Tonga
                             oofe, at New Caledonia
                             oobe; and here taboo is tafoo.
   Maooa,                  I, first person singular.
   Heno,                   Little rods, about five feet long,
                              with a tuft of hair on the small end.
   Patae,                  Salt.
   Aheia,                  A round pearl-shell.
   Teanoo,                 The cold arising from being in
                              the water.
   Tammata,                The sense of taste.
   Ootoo,                  A louse.
   Ehone,                  To salute by applying one nose
                              to the other. Ehogge at New
                              Zealand, and Ehoe at Otaheite.
   My,                     A sore of any kind.
   Oura, or ouraa,       Cured; recovered; alive; well.
   Mango,                  A shark.
   Te and he,            The.
   Heneeoohe,              An instrument made of a shark's
                            tooth fixed on a wooden handle,
                            to cut with.
   Eea,                    An adjunct, as at Otaheite, to
                            give strength to an expression.
   Paoo roa,               Quite done; finished.
   Ee,                     At.
   Taira,                  That; the other.
   Ahoo aura,              Red cloth.
   Henaro,                 A fly.
   Ehateinoa,              What is the name of that?
   Heweereweere,           An outrigger of a canoe.
   Mawaihe,                The sail of a canoe.
   Eheou,                  The mast of a canoe.
   Hetoa,                  The yard of a sail.
   Ooamou,                 Fast; secure; sound; whole.
   Hono,                   To go; to move.
   Matou,                  Fear.
   Pooa,                   An arrow.

   Atooi.                English.
   Teeto,                 A bow.
   Epaee,                 Wooden bowls made from the Etoo.
   Ohe,                   Bamboo.
   Henaroo,               The swell of the sea.
   Motoo,                 land.
   Ehetoo,                A star.
   Marama,                The moon.
   Ouameeta,              A man's name.

Numerals to Ten, as at Otaheite.

END OF VOLUME FIFTEENTH.

