St Thomas in the Vale is, as the name denotes, a deep valley, about ten miles long by six broad,
into which there is but one inlet comfortably passable for carriages--the road along which
we had come.  The hills, by which it is surrounded on all sides, are, for the most part, covered
with Guinea--grass pastures on the lower ranges, and with coffee plantations and provision
grounds higher up.  When we had ridden clear of the mist, the sun was shining brightly overhead,
and every thing was fresh and sparkling with dewdrops near us; but the vale was still concealed
under the wool--like sea of white mist, only pierced here and there by a tall cocoa--nut tree
rising above it, like the mast of a foundered vessel.  But anon the higher ridges of the grass
pieces appeared, as the fog undulated in fleecy waves in the passing breeze, which, as it rose
and sank like the swell of the ocean, disclosed every now and then the works on some high--lying
sugar estate, and again rolled over them like the tide covering the shallows of the sea, while
shouts of laughter, and the whooping of the negroes in the fields, rose from out the obscurity,
blended with the signal cries of the sugar boilers to the stockholemen of "Fire, fire grand
copper, grand copper," and the ca cawing, like so many rooks, of the children driving the mules
and oxen in the mills, and the everlasting splashing and panting of the water--wheel of the
estate immediately below us, and the crashing and smashing of the canes, as they were crushed
between the mill rollers; and the cracking of the wain and waggonmen's long whips, and the
rumbling, and creaking, and squealing of the machinery of the mills, and of the carriage--wheels;
while the smoke from the unseen chimney stalks of the sugar--works rose whirling darkly up
through the watery veil, like spinning waterspouts, from out the bosom of the great deep. 
Anon the veil rose, and we were once more gradually enveloped in clouds. Presently the thickest
of the mist floated up, and rose above us like a gauze--like canopy of fleecy clouds overhanging
the whole level plain, through which the red quenched sun, which a moment before was flaming
with intolerable brightness overhead, suddenly assumed the appearance of a round red globe
in an apothecary's window, surrounded by a broad yellow sickly halo, which dimly lit up, as
if the sun had been in eclipse, the cane--fields, then in arrow, as it is called, (a lavender
coloured flower, about three feet long, that shoots out from the top of the cane, denoting
that it is mature, and fit to be ground,) and the Guinea--grass plats, and the nice--looking
houses of the bushas, and the busy mill--yards, and the noisy gangs of negroes in the field,
which were all disclosed, as if by the change of a scene.

At length, in love as we were, we remembered our breakfast; and beginning to descend, we encountered
in the path a gang of about three dozen little glossy black piccaninies going to their work,
the oldest not above twelve years of age, under the care of an old negress.  They had all their
little packies, or calabashes, on their heads, full of provisions; while an old cook, with
a bundle of fagots on her head, and a fire stick in her hand, brought up the rear, her province
being to cook the food which the tiny little work--people carried.  Presently one or two book--keepers,
or deputy white superintendents on the plantation, also passed,--strong healthy looking young
fellows, in stuff jackets and white trowsers, and all with good cudgels in their hands.  The
mist, which had continued to rise up and up, growing thinner and thinner as it ascended, now
rent overhead about the middle of the vale, and the masses, like scattered clouds, drew towards
the ledge of the hills that surrounded it, like floating chips of wood in a tub of water, sailing
in long shreds towards @he most precipitous peaks, to which as they ascended they attached
themselves, and remained at rest.  And now the fierce sun, reasserting his supremacy, shone
once more in all his tropical fierceness right down on the steamy earth, and all was glare,
and heat, and bustle.

Next morning, I rode out at daylight along with Mr Bang, who had arrived on the previous evening.
We stopped to breakfast at a property of his about four miles distant, and certainly we had
no reason to complain of our fare--fresh fish from the gully, nicely roasted yams, a capital
junk of salt beef, a dish I always glory in on shore, although a hint of it at sea makes me
quake; and, after our repast, I once more took the road to see the estate, in company of my
learned friend.  There was a long narrow saddle, or ridge of limestone, about five hundred
feet high, that separated the southern quarter of the parish from the northern.  The cane--pieces,
and cultivated part of the estate, lay in a dead level of deep black mould, to the southward
of this ridge, from out which the latter rose abruptly.  The lower part of the ridge was clothed
with the most luxuriant orange, shaddock, lime, star--apple, breadfruit, and custard apple--trees,
besides numberless others that I cannot particularize, while the summit was shaded by tall
forest timber. Proceeding along a rough bridle path for the space of two miles, we attained
the highest part of the saddle, and turned sharp off to the right, to follow a small footpath
that had been billed in the bush, being the lines recently run by the land--surveyor between
Mr Bang's property and the neighbouring estate, the course of which mine host was desirous
of personally inspecting.  We therefore left our horses in charge of the servants, who had
followed us running behind, holding on by the tails of our horses, and began to brush through
the narrow path cut in the hot underwood.  After walking a hundred yards or so, we arrived
at the point where the path ended abruptly, abutting against a large tree that had been felled,
the stump of which remained, being about three feet high, and at least five in diameter.  Mr
Bang immediately perched himself on it to look about him, to see the lay of the land over the
sea of brushwood. I remained below, complaining loudly of the heat and confined air of my situation,
and swabbing all the while most energetically, when I saw my friend start.

"Zounds, Tom, look behind you!" We had nothing but our riding switches in our hands.  A large
snake, about ten feet long, had closed up the path in our rear, sliding slowly from one branch
to another, and hissing and striking out its forked tongue, as it twisted itself, at the height
of my head from the ground, amongst the trees and bushes, round and round about, occasionally
twining its neck round a tree as thick as my body, on one side of the path, and its tail round
another, larger in girth than my leg, on the other; when it would, with prodigious strength,
but the greatest ease, and the most oily smoothness, bend the smaller tree like a hoop, until
the trunks nearly touched, although growing full six feet asunder; as if a tackle fall, or
other strong purchase, had been applied; but continuing all the while it was putting forth
its power, to glide soapily along, quite unconcernedly, and to all appearance as pliant as
a leather thong,--shooting out its glancing neck, and glowering about with its little blasting
fiery eyes,--and sliding the forepart of the body onwards without pausing, as if there had
been no strain on the tail whatsoever, until the stems of the two trees were at length brought
together, when it let the smaller go with a loud spank, that shook the dew off the neighbouring
branches, and the perspiration from Tom Cringle's forehead--whose nerves were not more steady
than the tree--like rain, and frightened all the birds in the neighbourhood; while it, the
only unstartled thing, continued steadily and silently on its course,--turning and looking
at us, and poking its head within arm's length, and raising it with a loud hiss, and a threatening
attitude, on our smallest motion.

"A modern group of the Laocoon--lord, what a neckcloth we shall both have presently!" thought I.

Meanwhile, the serpent seemed to be emboldened from our quietude, and came so near, that I
thought I perceived the hot glow of its breath, with its scales glancing like gold and silver,
and its diamond--like eyes sparkling; but all so still and smooth, that unless it were an occasional
hiss, its motions were noiseless as those of an apparition.

At length the devil came fairly between us, and I could stand it no longer.  We had both up
to this period been really and truly fascinated; but the very instant that the coast was clear
in my wake, by the snake heading me, and gliding between me and Mr Bang, my manhood forsook
me all of a heap, and, turning tail, I gave a loud shout, and started off down the path at
speed, never once looking behind, and leaving Bang to his fate, perched on his pedestal, like
the laughing satyr; however, the next moment I heard him thundering in my rear.  My panic had
been contagious, for the instant my sudden motion had frightened the snake out of his way,
he started forth after me at speed, and away we both raced, until a stump caught my foot, and
both of us, after flying through the air a couple of fathoms or so, trundled head over heels,
over and over, shouting and laughing.  Pegtop now came up to us in no small surprise, but the
adventure was at an end, and we returned to Mr Bangs to dinner.

Here we had an agreeable addition to our party in Sir Jeremy Mayo, and the family of the Admiral,
Sir Samuel Semaphore, his lady, his two most amiable daughters, and the husband of the eldest.

Next morning we rode out to breakfast with a very worthy man, Mr Stornaway, the overseer of
Mount Olive estate, in the neighbourhood of which there were several natural curiosities to
be seen.  Although the extent of our party startled him a good deal, he received us most hospitably.
He ushered us into the piazza, where breakfast was laid, when uprose ten thousand flies from
the breakfast table, that was covered with marmalade, and guava jelly, and nicely roasted yams,
and fair white bread; and the fragrant bread--fruit roasted in the ashes, and wrapped in plantain
leaves; while the chocolate and coffee pots--the latter equal in cubic content to one of the
Wave's water--butts emulated each other in the fragrance of the odours which they sent forth;
and avocado pears, and potted calipiver, and cold pork hams, and really, I cannot repeat the
numberless luxuries that flanked the main body of the entertainment on a side table, all strong
provocative to fall to.

"You, Quacco--Peter--Monkey"--shouted Stornaway--"where are you, with your brushes; don't you
see the flies covering the table?" The three sable pages forthwith appeared, each with a large
green branch in his hand, which they waved over the viands, and we sat down and had a most
splendid breakfast.  Lady Semaphore and I--for I have always had a touch of the old woman in
me--were exceedingly tickled with the way in which the piccaniny mummas, that is, the mothers
of the negro children, received our friend Bang.  After breakfast, a regular muster took place
under the piazza of all the children on the property, under eight years of age, accompanied
by their mothers.

"Ah, Massa Bang," shouted one, "why you no come see we oftener? you forget your poor piccaniny
hereabout."

"You grow foolish old man now," quoth another.

"You no wort--you go live in town, an no care about we who make Massa money here; you no see
we all tarving here;" and the nice cleanly looking fat matron, who made the remark, laughed loudly.

He entered into the spirit of the affair with great kindliness, and verily, before he got clear,
his pockets were as empty as a half--pay lieutenant's.  His fee pennies were flying about in
all directions.

After breakfast we went to view the natural bridge, a band of rock that connects two hills
together, and beneath which a roaring stream rushes, hid entirely by the bushes and trees that
grow on each side of the ravine.  We descended by a circuitous footpath into the river course,
and walked under the natural arch, and certainly never was any thing finer; a regular Der Freyschutz
dell.  The arch overhead was nearly fifty feet high, and the echo was superb, as we found,
when the sweet voices of the ladies, blending in softest harmony--(lord, how fine you become,
Tom!)--in one of Moore's melodies, were reflected back on us at the close with the most thrilling
distinctness; while a stone, pitched against any of the ivy--like creepers, with which the
face of the rock was covered, was sure to dislodge a whole cloud of birds, and not infrequently
a slow--sailing white--winged owl.  Shortly after the Riomagno Gully, as it is called, passes
this most interesting spot, it sinks, and runs for three miles under ground, and again reappears
on the surface, and gurgles over the stones, as if nothing had happened.  By the by, this is
a common vagary of nature in Jamaica.  For instance, the Rio Cobre, I think it is, which, after
a subterranean course of three miles, suddenly gushes out of the solid rock at Bybrook estate,
in a solid cube of clear cold water, three feet in diameter; and I remember, in a cruise that
I had at another period of my life, in the leeward part of the Island, we came to an estate,
where the supply of water for the machinery rose up within the bounds of the mill--dam itself,
into which there was no flow, with such force, that above the spring, if I might so call it,
the bubbling water was projected into a blunt cone, like the bottom of a cauldron, the apex
of which was a foot higher than the level of the pond, although the latter was eighteen feet deep.

After an exceedingly pleasant day we returned home, and next morning, when I got out of bed,
I complained of a violent itching and pain, a sort of nondescript sensation, a mixture of pain
and pleasure in my starboard great toe, and on reconnoitring, I discovered it to be a good
deal inflamed on the ball, round a blue spot about the size of a pinhead.  Pegtop had come
into the room, and while he was placing my clothes in order, I asked him "What this could be--gout,
think you, Massa Pegtop--gout?"

"Gote, massa--gote--no, no, him chiger, massa--chiger--little something like one flea; poke
him head under de kin, dere lay egg; ah, great luxury to creole gentleman and lady, dat chiger;
sweet pain, creole miss say--nice for cratch him, him say."

"Why, it may be a creole luxury, Pegtop, but I wish you would relieve me of it."

"Surely, massa surely, if you wish it," said Pegtop, in some surprise at my want of taste.
"Lend me your penknife den, massa;" and he gabbled away as he extracted from my flesh the chiger
bag--like a blue pill in size and colour.

"Oh, massa, top till you marry creole wife,--she will tell you me say true; ah, daresay Miss
Mary himself love chiger to tickle him--to be sure him love to be tickle--him love to be tickle--ay,
all Creole miss love to be tickle--he, he, he!"

By agreement, Mr Bang and I met Mr Stornaway this morning, in order to visit some other estates
together, and during our ride I was particularly gratified by his company.  He was a man of
solid and very extensive acquirements, and far above what his situation in life at that time
led one to expect.  When I revisited the island some years afterwards, I was rejoiced to find
that his intrinsic worth and ability had floated him up into a very extensive business, and
I believe he is now a man of property. I rather think he is engaged in some statistical work
connected with Jamaica, which, I am certain, will do him credit whenever it appears.  Odd enough,
the very first time I saw him, I said I was sure he would succeed in the world; and I am glad
to find I was a true prophet.  To return: Our chief object at present was to visit a neighbouring
estate, the overseer of which was, we were led to believe from a message sent to Mr Bang, very
ill with fever.  He was a most respectable young man, Mr Stomaway told me, a Swede by birth,
who had came over to England with his parents at the early age of eight years, where both he
and his cousin Agatha had continued, until he embarked for the West Indies.  This was an orphan
girl whom his father had adopted, and both of them, as he had often told Mr Stornaway, had
utterly forgotten their Swedish,--in fact, they understood no language but English at the time
he embarked.  I have been thus particular, from a very extraordinary phenomenon that occurred
immediately, preceding his dissolution, of which I was a witness.

We rode up in front of the door, close to the fixed manger, where the horses and mules belonging
to the busha are usually fed, and encountered a negro servant on a mule, with an umbrella--case
slung across his back, and a portmanteau behind him, covered with the usual sheep's fleece,
and holding a saddle horse.

"Where is your master?" said Mr Bang.

"De dactor is in de hose," replied quashie.  "Busha dere upon dving."

We ascended the rocky unhewn steps, and entered the cool, dark hall, smelling strong of camphor,
and slid over the polished floors towards an open door, that led into the back piazza, where
we were received by the head book--keeper and carpenter.  They told us that the overseer had
been seized three days before with fever, and was now desperately ill; and presently the doctor
came forth out of the sick--room.

"Poor Wedderfelt is fast going, sir--cold at the extremities already very bad fever--the bilious
remittent of the country, of the worst type."

All this while the servants, male and female, were whispering to each other; while a poor little
black fellow sat at the door of the room, crying bitterly--this was the overseer's servant.
We entered the room. which was darkened from the jealousies being, all shut, except one of
the uppermost, which happening to be broken, there was a strong pencil of light cast across
the head of the bed where the sick man lay while the rest of the room was involved in gloom.

The sufferer seemed in the last stage of yellow fever; his skin was a bright vellow, his nose
sharp, and his general features very much pinched.  His head had been shaven, and there was
a handkerchief bound round it over a plantain leaf, the mark of the blister coming low down
on his forehead, where the skin was shrivelled like dry parchment apparently it had not risen.
There was also a blister on his chest.  He was very restless, clutching the bedclothes, and
tossing his limbs about; his mouth was ulcerated, and blood oozed from the corners; his eyes
were a deep yellow, with the pupil much dilated, and very, lustrous; he was breathing with
a heavy moaning noise when we entered, and looked wildly round, mistaking Mr Bang and me for
some other persons.  Presently he began to speak very quickly, and to lift one of his hands
repeatedly close to his face, as if there was something in it he wished to look at. I presently
saw that it held a miniature of a fair haired, blue--eyed Scandinavian girl; but apparently
he could not see it, from the increasing dimness of his eyes, which seemed to distress him
greatly.  After a still minute, during which no sound was heard but his own heavy breathing,
he again began to speak very rapidly, but no one in the room could make out what he said. I
listened attentively--it struck me is being like--I was certain of it--it was Swedish, which
in health he had entirely forgotten, but now in his dying moments vividly remembered.  Alas,
it was a melancholy and a moving sight, to perceive all the hitherto engrossing thoughts and
incidents of his youth and manhood, all save the love of one dear object, suddenly vanish from
the tablet of his memory, ground away and abrased, as it were, by his great agony--or like
worthless rubbish, removed from above some beautiful ancient inscription, which for ages it
had hid, disclosing in all their primeval freshness, sharp cut into his dieing heart, the long
smothered, but never to be obliterated impressions of his early, childhood. I could plainly
distinguish the name Agatha, whenever he peered with fast glazing eyes on the miniature.  All
this while a nice little brown child was lying playing with his watch and seals on the bed
beside him, while a handsome coloured girl, a slight young creature, apparently its mother,
sat on the other side of the dying man, supporting his head on her lap, and wetting his mouth
every now and then with a cloth dipped in brandy.

As he raised the miniature to his face, she would gently endeavour to turn away his hand, that
he might not look at one whom she, poor thing, no doubt considered was usurping the place in
his fluttering heart, that she long fancied had been filled by herself solely; and at other
times she would vainly try to coax it out of his cold hand, but the dieing grasp was now one
of iron, and her attempts evidently discomposed the departing sinner; but all was done kindly
and quietly, and a flood of tears would every now and then stream down her cheeks, as she failed
in her endeavours, or as the murmured, gasped name, Agatha, reached her ear.

"Ah!" said she, "him heart riot wid me now--it far away in him own country, him never will
make me yeerie what him say again no more."

Oh, woman, woman! who can fathom that heart of thine!  By this time the hiccup grew stronger,
and all at once he sat up strong in his bed without assistance, "light as if he felt no wound;"
but immediately thereafter gave a strong shudder, ejecting from his mouth a jet of dark matter
like the grounds of chocolate, and fell back dead whereupon the negroes began to howl and shriek
in such a horrible fashion, that we were glad to leave the scene.

Next day, when we returned to attend the poor fellow's funeral, we found a complete bivouac
of horses and black servants below the trees in front of the house, which was full of neighbouring
planters and overseers, all walking about, and talking, and laughing, as if it had been a public
meeting on parish business.  Some of them occasionally went into the room to look at the body
as it lay in the open coffin, the lid of which was at length screwed down, and the corpse carried
on four negroes shoulders to its long home, followed by the brown girl and all the servants,
the latter weeping and howling,--but she, poor thing, said not a word, although her heart seemed,
from the convulsive heaving of her bosom, like to burst.  He was buried under a neighbouring
orange--tree, the service being read by the Irish carpenter of the estate, who got half a page
into the marriage service by mistake before either he or any one else noticed he was wrong.

Three days after this the admiral extended my leave for a fortnight, which I spent in a tour
round this most glorious island with friend Aaron, whose smiling face, like the sun, (more
like the nor'west moon in a fog, by the by,) seemed to diffuse warmth, and comfort, and happiness,
wherever he went, while Sir Samuel and his charming family, and the general, and my dearie,
and her aunt, returned home; and after a three weeks philandering, I was married, and all that
sort of thing, and a week afterwards embarked with my treasure for I had half a million of
dollars on freight, as well as my own particular jewel; and don't grin at the former, for they
gave me a handsome sum, and helped to rig us when we got to Ould England, where Lotus--Leaf
was paid off, and I settled for a time on shore, the happiest, &c. &c. &c., until some years
afterwards, when the wee Cringles began to tumble home so deucedly fast, that I had to cut
and run, and once more betake myself to the salt sea. My aunt and her family returned at the
same time to England, in a merchant ship under my convoy, and became our neighbours.  Bang
also got married soon after to Miss Lucretia Wagtail, by whom he got the Slap estate.  But
old Gelid and my other allies remain, I believe, in single blessedness until this hour.

MY TALE is told--my yarn is ended,--and were I to spin it longer, I fear it would be only bending
it "end for end;" yet still I linger, "like the sough of an auld sang" on the ear, loath to
pronounce that stern heart crushing word, that yet "has been, and must be," and which, during
my boisterous and unsettled morning, has been, alas! a too familiar one with me.  I hope I
shall always bless Heaven for my fair Blinks, although, as the day has wore on, I have had
my own share of lee currents, hard gales, and foul weather; and many an old and dear friend
has lately swamped alongside of me, while few new ones have shoved out to replace them.  But
suffering, that scathes the heart, does not always make it callous; and I feel much of the
woman hanging about mine still, even now, when the tide is on the turn with me, and the iron
voice of the inexorable First--Lieutenant, Time, has sung out, "Strike the bell eight,"--every
chime smiting on my soul as if an angel spoke, to warn me, that my stormy forenoon watch is
at length over--that the sun, now passing the meridian, must soon decline towards the western
horizon, and who shall assure himself of a cloudless setting.

I have, in very truth, now reached the summit of the bald spray washed promontory, and stand
on the slippery ledge of the cliff, that trembles to the thundering of the surge beneath; but
the plunge must be made--so at once, Farewell all hands, and God bless ye.  If, while chucking
the cap about at a venture--but I hope and trust there has been no such thing--it has alighted
on the head of some ancient ally, and pinched in any the remotest degree, I hereby express
my most sincere and heartfelt regret; and to such a one I would say, as he said, who wrote
for all time,

"I have shot Mine arrow o'er the house, and hurt my brother."

Thus I cut my stick while the play is good, and before the public gets wearied of me; and,
as for the Log, it is now launched, swim, or founder; if those things be good, it will float
from its own buoyancy; if they be naught, let it sink at once and for ever--all that Tom Cringle
expects at the hands of his countrymen is--A CLEAR STAGE, AND NO FAVOUR.

                  THE END.