The cries of the spectators roused Juancho from his stupor: he drew hastily back, and waved
the scarlet folds of the muleta before the eyes of the bull. The instinct of self-preservation,
the pride of the gladiator, struggled in his breast with the desire to watch Militona; a moment's
neglect, a glance on one side, might cost him his life. It was an infernal predicament for
a jealous man. To behold, beside the woman he loved, a gay, handsome, and attentive rival,
while he, in the middle of a circus, the eyes of twelve thousand spectators riveted upon him,
had, within a few inches of his breast, the sharp horns of a ferocious beast which, under pain
of dishonour, he could only kill in a certain manner and by a wound in a certain place.

The torero, once more master of the jurisdiction, as it is said in tauromachian slang, settled
himself firmly on his heels, and manoeuvred with the muleta to make the bull lower his head.

"What could he say to her," thought Jauncho, "that young fellow on whom she smiled so sweetly?"
Swayed by the reflection, he again forgot his formidable antagonist, and involuntarily raised
his eyes. The bull, profiting by the momentary inattention, rushed upon the man; the latter,
taken unawares, leaped backwards, and, by a mechanical movement, made a thrust with his sword.
Several inches of the blade entered, but in the wrong place. The weapon met the bone; a furious
movement of the bull made it rebound from the wound amidst a spout of blood, and fall to the
ground some paces off. Juancho was disarmed, and the bull more dangerous than ever, for the
misdirected thrust had served but to exasperate him. The chulos ran to the rescue, waving their
pink and blue cloaks. Militona grew pale; the old woman uttered lamentable ejaculations, and
sighed like a stranded whale. The public, beholding Juancho's inconceivable awkwardness, commenced
one of those tremendous uproars in which the Spanish people excel: a perfect hurricane of insulting
epithets, of vociferations and maledictions. "Away with the dog!" was shouted on all sides;
"Down with the thief, the assassin! To the galleys with him! To Ceuta! The clumsy butcher,
to spoil such a noble beast!" And so on, through the entire vocabulary of abuse which the Spanish
tongue so abundantly supplies. Juancho stood erect under the storm of insult, biting his lips,
and tearing with his right hand the lace frills of his shirt. His sleeve, ripped open by the
bull's horn, disclosed his arm a long violet scar. For an he tottered, and seemed about to
fall, suffocated by the violence of his emotions; but he promptly recovered himself, ran to
his sword, picked it up, straightened the bent blade with his foot, and placed himself with
his back towards the place where Militona sat. At a sign he made, the chulos led the bull towards
him by tantalising it with their cloaks; and this time he dealt the animal a downward thrust,
in strict conformity with the laws of the sport--such a one as the great Montés of Chiclana
himself would not have disowned. The sword was planted between the shoulders, and its cross-hilt,
rising between the horns of the bull, reminded of those Gothic engravings where St Hubert is
seen kneeling before a stag which bears a crucifix in its antlers.

The bull fell heavily on its knees before Juancho, as if doing homage to his superiority, and
after a short convulsion rolled over, its four feet in the air.

"Juancho has taken a brilliant revenge! What a splendid thrust! He is superior to Arjona and
the Chiclanero; do you not think so, Señorita?" cried Andrés enthusiastically to his neighbour.

"For God's sake, sir, not another word!" replied Militona very quickly, without turning her
head and scarcely moving her lips. The words were spoken in a tone at once so imperative and
so imploring, that Andrés immediately saw it was not the artifice of a young girl begging to
be let alone, and hoping to be disobeyed. Neither could modesty dictate the injunction. Nothing
he had said called for such rigour, and manolas, the grisettes of Madrid, are not usually--be
it said without calumny--of such extreme susceptibility. Real terror, apprehension of a danger
unknown to Andrés, was indicated by the hasty sentence.

"Can she be a princess in disguise?" said Andrés to himself, considerably puzzled how to act.
"If I hold my tongue, I shall look like a fool, or, at any rate, like a very middling sort
of Don Juan: if I persist, I shall perhaps cause the poor girl some disagreeable scene. Can
she be afraid of the duenna? Hardly. When that amiable old sorceress devoured my comfits, she
became in some sort an accomplice. It cannot be she whom my infanta dreads. Is there a father,
brother, husband, or jealous lover in the neighbourhood?" But on looking around, Andrés could
discover no one who seemed to pay the slightest attention to the proceedings of the beautiful
manola.

From the moment of the bull's death till the end of the fight, Juancho did not once look at
Militona. He despatched with unparalleled dexterity two other bulls that fell to his share,
and was applauded as vehemently as he had previously been hissed. Andrés, either not deeming
it prudent, or not finding a good pretext to renew the conversation, didn't speak another word
to Militona, and even left the circus a few minutes before the conclusion of the performances.
Whilst stepping across the benches, he whispered something to a boy of quick and intelligent
physiognomy, and then immediately disappeared.

The boy, when the audience rose to depart, mingled in the crowd, and, without any apparent
design, attached himself to the steps of Militona and the duenna. He saw them get into their
cabriolet, and when the vehicle rolled away on its great scarlet wheels, he hung on behind,
as if giving way to a childish impulse, and was whirled through a cloud of dust, singing at
the top of his voice the popular ditty of the Bulls of Puerto.

"Well done!" exclaimed Andrés, who, from an alley of the Prado, which he had already reached,
saw cab and boy rattle past: "in an hour I shall know the address of the charming manola."

Andrés had reckoned without the chapter of accidents. In the Calle de los Desamparados, a cut
across the face from the whip of the surly calesero, forced the ragged Mercury to let go his
hold. Before he could pick himself up, and rub the dust and tears from his eyes, the vehicle
was at the farther end of the street, and although Perico, impressed with the importance of
his mission, followed it at the top of his speed, he lost sight of it in the labyrinth of lanes
adjacent to the Plaza de Lavapies--literally, Washfeet Square--a low quarter of Madrid. The
most he could ascertain was, that the calesin had deposited its burthen in one of four streets,
but in which of them it was impossible to say. With the bait of a dollar before his eyes, however,
the urchin was not to be discouraged; and late that night, as Don Andrés was returning from
a wearisome tertulia, whither he had been compelled to accompany Doña Feliciana de los Rios,
he felt a pull at the skirt of his coat. It was Perico.

"Caballero," said the child, "she lives in the Calle del Povar, the third house on the right.
I saw her at her window, taking in the water jar."

It is difficult to describe the style of architecture of the house inhabited by Militona, unless
we designate it as the order composite. Its front was characterised by a total absence of symmetry;
the walls, sadly out of the perpendicular, seemed about to fall, and would doubtless have done
so but for the support of sundry iron curves and crosses, which held the bricks together, and
of two adjacent houses of more solid construction. From the lower part of the ricketty fabric
the plaster had peeled off in large scales, exposing the foundation wall; whilst the upper
stories, better preserved, exhibited traces of old pink paint, as if the poor house blushed
for shame of its miserable condition. Near the roof of broken and disorderly tiles, which marked
out a brown festoon against the bright blue sky, was a little window, surrounded by a recent
coat of white plaster. On the right of this casement hung a cage, containing a quail: on the
left another cage, of minute dimensions, decorated with red and yellow beads, served as palace
to a cricket. A jar of porous earth, suspended by the ears to a string, and covered with a
pearly moisture, held water cooling in the evening breeze, and from time to time allowed a
few drops to fall upon two pots of sweet basil that stood beneath it. The window was that of
Militona's apartment.

If the reader will venture to ascend with us this dark and broken staircase, we will follow
Militona as she trips lightly up it on her return from the bull-fight; whilst old Aldonsa tolls
behind, calling upon the saints for succour, and clinging to the greasy rope that does duty
as a banister. On reaching the topmost landing-place, the pretty manola raised a fragment of
matting that hung before one of those many-panelled doors common in Madrid, took her key and
let herself in. The interior of the room was humble enough. Whitewash replaced paper; a scratched
mirror--which reflected very imperfectly the charming countenance of its owner--a plaster cast
of St Antony, flanked by two blue glass vases containing artificial flowers, a deal table,
two chairs, and a little bed covered with a muslin quilt, composed the entire furniture. We
must not forget an image of Our Lady, rudely painted and gilt on glass, engravings of the fight
of the second of May, of the funeral of Daoiz and Velarde, and of a picador on horseback; a
tambourine, a guitar, and a branch of palm, brought from church on the previous Palm Sunday.
Such was Militona's room; and although it contained but the barest necessaries of life, it
had not the chill and dreary look of misery. A cheerful gleam illuminated it; the red brick
floor was gay and pleasant to the eye; there was no shade on the white walls, or cobweb on
the raftered roof--all was fresh, and bright, and cheerful in the poor garret. In England it
would have been perfect destitution, in Spain it was almost comfort, and more than was necessary
for happiness.

The old woman was at last at the top of the stairs; she entered the room and let herself fall
upon one of the two chairs, which cracked under her weight. "The water jar, Militona, for mercy's
sake! I am half suffocated with the heat and dust; and those accursed lozenges have put my
throat in a flame."

"You should not have eaten so many, tia," said the young girl, smiling, and placing the jar
to the old lady's lips. Aldonsa drank eagerly, passed the back of her hand over her mouth,
and fanned herself in silence.

"Talking of lozenges," said she after a pause, "how furiously Juancho looked at us! I am sure
he missed the bull because that young spark spoke to you. Juancho is jealous as a tiger, and
if he has fallen in with yonder pretty gentleman, he will have made him repent his gallantry.
I would not give much for the young man's skin; it will have some famous holes in it. Do you
remember the slash he gave Luca, for offering you a nosegay at the festival of San Isidro?"

"I hope Juancho will commit no violence," exclaimed the young girl--"What frightful slavery
to be thus persecuted by his ferocious love!"

"It is your fault," retorted Aldonsa. "Why are you so pretty?"

A sharp rap at the door, sounding as if given by an iron finger, interrupted the conversation.
The old woman got up and looked through the little grating, inserted, according to Spanish
custom, in the centre of the door. Through the bars appeared the countenance of Juancho, pale
beneath the bronzed tint with which the sun of the arena had overlaid it. Aldonsa opened the
door and the torero entered. His features betrayed the violent emotions that had agitated him
in the bull-ring. To the shame of having been hissed was superadded rage at not having quitted
the circus soon enough to overtake the young man who had been so attentive to Militona. Where
could he now find him? Doubtless he had followed the manola and spoken to her again. And at
the thought, Juancho's hand mechanically sank to his girdle to seek his knife.

The torero sat down upon the second chair. Militona stood at the window, pulling a flower to
pieces; the old woman fanned herself more rapidly than ever: an awkward silence reigned in
the apartment. Aldonsa was the first to break it.

"Does your arm hurt you, Juancho?"

"No," replied the bull-fighter, fixing his deep gaze upon Militona.

"You should bandage it, and apply salt and water," said the old woman, determined not to let
the conversation drop.

Juancho made no reply, but addressed himself to Militona.

"Who was the young man who sat beside you at the bull-fight?"

"I do not know him. I never saw him before."

"But you would like to know him?"

"The supposition is polite. Well, and what if I should?"

"I would kill him, the dainty gentleman in polished boots and white gloves."

"You talk like a madman, Juancho. What right have I given you to be jealous of me? You love
me, you say--is that my fault? Am I obliged to adore you, because you have taken it into your
head to find me pretty?"

"True enough," interposed the old woman, "she is not obliged. Nevertheless, you would make
a handsome couple. Prettier hand never rested on more vigorous arm; and if you danced a cachuca
together at the garden of the Delicias, people would stand on the chairs to look at you."

"Have I played the coquet with you, Juancho? Have I sought, by word, or look, or smile, to
engage your affections?"

"No," replied the torero in a gloomy voice.

"I never promised you any thing, or gave you any hope: I always bade you forget me. Why torment
and offend me by your unjustifiable violence? You crippled poor Luca, an honest fellow, who
amused me and made me laugh, and you wounded your friend Ginés almost to death, because he
happened to touch my hand. Do you think such conduct advances you in my good opinion? And to-day
at the circus you behaved absurdly; whilst watching me, you let the bull come upon you, and
gave a miserable thrust."

"But I love you, Militona!" exclaimed the bull-fighter passionately. "I love you with all my
heart and soul; I see but you in the world, and a bull's horn entering my breast would not
make me turn my head when you smile upon another man. True, my manners are not gentle, for
I have passed my life in contests with savage beasts, in slaying and exposing myself to be
slain. I cannot be soft and simpering like those delicate young gentlemen who pass their time
in reading the papers and having their hair curled! But if you will not be mine," resumed Juancho
after a pause, striking the table violently with his fist, "at any rate no one else shall call
you his." And with these words he got up and left the room. "I will find him!" he muttered,
as he strode down the stairs, "and cool his courtship with three inches of steel."

All that night Juancho kept watch and ward in front of Militona's dwelling, in hopes of falling
in with her new admirer. Militona learned this from old Aldonsa, who lived in the house, and
she felt seriously alarmed lest the handsome cavalier who had been so courteous to her at the
circus, and whom she could not remember without a certain interest, should come to harm at
the hands of the terrible torero who thus tyrannised over her inclinations and scared away
all aspirants to her favour. Juancho, meanwhile, steady in his resolve to exterminate his rival,
had betaken himself, on coming off guard in the Calle del Povar, to a tailor's in the Calle
Mayor, and there had exchanged his usual majo's dress for a suit of black and a round hat.
Thus metamorphosed into a sober citizen, he passed the day and evening in the Prado, the most
elegant coffee-houses, the theatres--in every place, in short, where he thought it likely he
should meet the object of his anger. But nowhere could he find him, and that for the best of
reasons. At the very hour that the torero purchased the disguise intended to facilitate his
revenge, Don Andrés, in the back shop of a clothes-dealer on the Rastro--the great Madrid market
for second-hand articles of every description--donned the complete costume of a manolo, trusting
it would aid him in his designs upon Militona. Equipped in a round jacket of snuff-coloured
cloth, abundantly decorated with small buttons, in loose pantaloons, a silk sash, a dark cloak
and velvet-trimmed hat, which garments, although not quite new, were not wanting in a certain
elegance, and sat trimly upon his well-made person, Andrés hurried to the Calle del Povar.
He at once recognised the window described to him by Perico; a curtain was drawn before it
on the inner side, and nothing indicated that the room had an occupant.

"Doubtless she is gone out," thought Andrés, "and will return only when her day's work is finished.
She must be a needle-woman, cigar-maker, embroideress, or something of that kind," and he walked
on.

Militona had not gone out. She was cutting out a dress upon her little table. The occupation
required no great mystery, but nevertheless her door was bolted, for fear probably of some
sudden invasion on the part of Juancho, rendered doubly dangerous by the absence of Tia Aldonsa.
As she worked, Militona's thoughts travelled faster than her needle. They ran upon the young
man who had gazed at her the previous evening, at the circus, with so tender and ardent a gaze,
and who had spoken a few words to her in a voice that still sounded pleasantly in her ear.

It was night, and Juancho, straitened and uncomfortable in his modern costume, and wearied
with fruitless researches, paced the alleys of the Prado with hasty steps, looking every man
in the face, but without discovering his rival. At the same hour, Andrés, seated in an orchateria
de chufas (orgeat-shop) nearly opposite Militona's house, quietly consumed a glass of iced
lemonade. He had placed himself on picket there, with Perico for his vedette. Juancho would
have passed him by without recognising him, or thinking of seeking his enemy under the round
jacket and felt hat of a manolo, but Militona, concealed in the corner of her window, had not
been deceived for an instant by the young man's disguise. Love has sharper eyes than hatred.
Devoured by anxiety, the manola asked herself what could be the projects of the persevering
cavalier, and dreaded the terrible scene that must ensue should Juancho discover him. Andrés,
his elbows upon the table, watched every one who went in or out of the house; but night came
and Militona had not appeared. He began to doubt the correctness of his emissary's information,
when a light in the young girl's window showed that the room was inhabited. Hastily writing
a few words in pencil on a scrap of paper, he called Perico, who lingered in the neighbourhood,
and bade him take the billet to the pretty manola. Perico slipped into the house, fumbled his
way up stairs, and discovered Militona's door by the light shining through the cracks. Two
discreet taps; the wicket was half opened, and the note taken in.

"It is to be hoped she can read," thought Andrés, as he paid for his lemonade, left the shop,
and walked slowly up and down the street. This was what he had written:--

"One who cannot forget you, and who would grieve to do so, ardently desires to see you again;
but after your last words at the circus, and ignorant of your position, he fears to place you
in peril by seeking an interview. Danger to himself would be no obstacle. Extinguish your lamp,
and throw your answer from the window."

In a few minutes the lamp disappeared, the window opened, and Militona took in her water-jar.
In so doing she upset one of the pots of sweet basil, which fell into the street and was broken
to pieces. Amidst the brown earth scattered upon the pavement, something white was visible.
It was Militona's answer. Andrés called a sereno, or watchman, who just then passed, with his
lantern at the end of his halbert, and begging him to lower the light, read the following words,
written in a tremulous hand, and in large irregular letters:--

"Begone instantly.... I have no time to say more. To morrow, at ten o'clock, in the church
of San Isidro. For Heaven's sake begone! your life is at stake."

"Thank you, my good man," said Andrés, putting a real into the sereno's hand, "you may go."

The street was quite deserted, and Andrés was walking slowly away, when the apparition of a
man, wrapped in a cloak, beneath which the handle of a guitar formed an acute angle, excited
his curiosity, and he stepped into the dark shadow of a low archway. The man threw back the
folds of his cloak, brought his guitar forward, and began that monotonous thrumming which serves
as accompaniment to serenades and seguidillas. The object of this prelude evidently was to
awaken the lady in whose honour it was perpetrated; but Militona's window continued closed
and dark; and at last the man, compelled to content himself with an invisible auditory,--in
spite of the Spanish proverb, which says, no woman sleeps so soundly that the twang of a guitar
will not bring her to the window,--began to sing in a strong Andalusian accent. The serenade
consisted of a dozen verses, in which the singer celebrated the charms of a cruel mistress,
vowed inextinguishable love, and denounced fearful vengeance upon all rivals. The menaces,
however, were far more abundant, in this rude ditty, than the praises of beauty or protestations
of affection.

"Caramba!" thought Andrés, when the song concluded, "what ferocious poetry! Nothing tame about
those couplets. Let us see if Militona is touched by the savage strain. This must be the terrible
lover by whom she is so frightened. She might be alarmed at less."

Don Andrés advanced his head a little; a moonbeam fell upon it, and Juancho's quick eye detected
him. "Good!" said Andrés to himself, "I am caught. Now then, cool and steady."

Juancho threw down his guitar, which resounded mournfully on the pavement, and ran up to Andrés,
whose face was now in the full moonlight, and whom he at once recognised.

"What do you here at this hour?" said the bull-fighter, in a voice that trembled with passion.

"I listen to your music; it is a refined amusement."

"If you listened, you heard that I allow no one to set foot in this street when I sing."

"I am naturally very disobedient," replied Andrés, with perfect coolness.

"You will change your character to-day."

"Certainly not--I am attached to my habits."

"Defend yourself, then, or die!" cried Juancho, drawing his knife, and rolling his cloak round
his arm. His movements were imitated by Andrés, who placed himself on guard with a promptness
that showed knowledge of the weapon, and somewhat surprised the bull-fighter. Andrés had long
practised the navaja under one of the best teachers in Seville, as at Paris one sees young
men of fashion take lessons of savate and singlestick, reduced to mathematical principles by
Lecourt and Boucher.

