You must have read my secret interviews with distinguished Germans, who whispered to me that
HINDENBURG had thrown down his sword and declared that if the useless slaughter did not cease
he would march on Berlin. I have told you their promises of bloody revolutions and fierce risings.
Also I have given you interviews with other distinguished Germans, who confided to me that
now Germany could turn out one submarine and one Zeppelin every week-day and two on Sundays,
and I have thrilled you with the details of the great trade war which will come directly peace
is declared, when Germany will win back all her wealth by selling everything fifty per cent.
below cost.

How my dinners vary in that strange Teutonic land! I pay twenty marks for two tiny slices of
fish, a thin piece of indigestible potato bread, and a section of rancid sausage. At other
times I spend two marks and get a delightful meal which could not be procured in a London restaurant
for five shillings. I walk through Berlin and see scarcely a cripple or a wounded man. I let
you know that ninety-five per cent. of German wounded, owing to the skill of German doctors,
go back to the Front in a week. To other English readers I confide that all the maimed, wounded
and blind are sent into the very centre of Germany. There are huge districts without a whole
man in them.

Did you ask for the actual facts? I will give you one--and it is this: the only persons in
Germany whose waist-measurements have increased in the War are the neutral journalists.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

In Hearts of Alsace (SMITH, ELDER) your interest will be held less by the actual story than
by the profoundly moving and poignant picture that Miss BETHAM-EDWARDS has drawn of life in
the Reichsland under the increasing burden of Prussian tyranny. It is a picture that one feels
to be absolutely true. The author writes of what she knows. This Alsatian family--old Jean
Barthélemy, the city father, crushed and embittered by the fate of his loved Mulhouse; his
two daughters and the circle of their friends within the town--all live and move and look longingly
towards the West, as so many others must have done these forty and odd years past. The plot,
what there is of it, concerns the clandestine love of Claire, the petted younger daughter of
the Gley house, for an officer in the conqueror's host, whom she had met during a visit to
Strasburg. Claire marries her Kurt, a shady worthless knave, and, as the book ends with the
outbreak of war, is left to an unknown fate. Very stirring are the chapters that tell of the
tumult of emotion that broke loose when the French guns were heard in Mulhouse; though here--as
in all those war stories whose only satisfactory end is the final confusion of Kaiserdom--one
feels that there is a chapter yet to be added. Miss BETHAM-EDWARDS writes with all the vigour
(I might add all the garrulity) of intense personal feeling. Her book, as a race study, is
a real contribution to the literature of the War.

       *       *       *       *       *

These are days in which some measure of sacrifice is rightly considered the common duty of
everyone, so long as it is sacrifice with an object. Perhaps this consideration gives me less
patience with the preposterous kind, which, as a motive in fiction, usually consists in the
hero inviting all and sundry to trample upon his prospects and reputation. This is what the
chief character in Proud Peter (HUTCHINSON) did. He began by allowing it to be supposed that
he was the father of his brother's illegitimate child, the bright peculiar fatuousness of which
pretence was that thereby the said brother was enabled to marry, and break the heart of, the
heroine, whom, of course, Peter himself adored. Also, many years after, when the child, now
an objectionable young man, nay more, an actor, was pursuing another heroine with his unwelcome
attentions, he very nearly spiked Peter's guns, on being threatened, by exclaiming, "I am thy
son"--or words to that effect. Fortunately, however, there existed, as I had somehow known
would be the case, a signed photograph that put all that right. Why, I wonder, is Mr. W. E.
NORRIS always so sharp with the dramatic profession? Was it not in one of his earlier stories
that somebody quite seriously questions whether a good actor can also be a good man? On the
whole, as you may have gathered, while I should call Proud Peter a comfortable tale of the
eupeptic type, I enjoyed it rather less than other stories from the same facile pen.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTHUR GREEN'S The Story of a Prisoner of War (CHATTO AND WINDUS) can be recommended to all
who can still digest the uncooked facts. "I can swear," he says, "that all that is written
is Gospel truth," but without any such assurance it would be impossible for even the most sceptical
to doubt the writer's honesty. Wounded and taken prisoner in August, 1914, he suffered severely
at the hands of the Germans, and his account of the camp at Wittenburg does nothing to decrease
one's loathing for that pestilential spot. For many reasons it gives that a civilized race
can sink to such depths of cruelty and cowardice. Perhaps the only people to whom it will give
any comfort are those who have sent food and clothing to our prisoners. But I am glad that
this book came my way, because I would choose to read facts of the War baldly written by a
soldier rather than any war fiction composed by imaginative civilians. "Of course I'm not an
author," he writes, and as far as grammar and spelling go it is not for me to contradict him,
but he has seen and suffered, and in these days no one who has handled a bayonet need apologise
for taking a turn with a pen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Encouraged, no doubt, by the reception accorded to that cheery little volume, Minor Horrors
of War, its author, Dr. A. E. SHIPLEY, has now followed it with an equally entertaining sequel
in More Minor Horrors (SMITH, ELDER). This deals more especially with the pests attached to
the Senior Service, and familiar to those who go down to the sea in ships--the Cockroach, the
Mosquito, the Rat, the Biscuit-Weevil and others. Of each Dr. SHIPLEY has some pleasant word
of instruction or comment to say, in his own highly entertaining manner. I like, for example,
his remark about the mosquito (whose infinite variety is recognised in no fewer than five chapters),
that, if he could talk, the burden of his song would be that of the guests at the dinner-party
in David Copperfield--"Give us blood!" And I found good omen in the cockroach world on learning
that Periplaneta Orientalis, or the common English sort, has P. Germanica thoroughly beat in
the matter of empire-building. In short, Dr. SHIPLEY'S second volume, like his first, combines
instruction with amusement, and is well worth its modest eighteen-pence to those on land who
may wish to learn about the intimate associates of their dear ones who are defending them upon
the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In the Midst of Life----"

    "Good Greengrocer and Mixed Business, sure living; death cause
    of leaving."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *