LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                                      PAGE
 Captain Cook,                              frontispiece.
 William Dampier,                                        6
 Rocks, South Heads, Sydney,                            13
 Town and Cove of Sydney, in 1798,                      17
 Matthew Flinders,                                      21
 Cook's Monument, Botany Bay,                           24
 The Explorers' Tree, Katoomba, N.S.W.,                 26
 Governor Collins,                                      33
 Governor Macquarie,                                    39
 Blue Mountain Scenery, Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.,        41
 St. Andrew's Cathedral, Sydney,                        46
 Captain Charles Sturt,                                 51
 The First House Built in Victoria,                     56
 The First Hotel in Victoria,                           57
 Edward Henty,                                          61
 John Pascoe Fawkner,                                   62
 Governor Latrobe,                                      65
 Collins Street, Melbourne, in 1840,                    66
 First Settlement at Adelaide, 1836,                    69
 Governor Hindmarsh,                                    71
 Proclamation Tree, Glenelg,                            74
 Colonial Secretary's Office, Sydney,                   81
 Edward Hargraves,                                      92
 Perth, Western Australia, in 1838,                    114
 Perth, 1890,                                          115
 Boomerangs, or Kylies,                                122
 Parliament House, Brisbane,                           123
 Victoria Bridge, Brisbane,                            126
 Government House, Brisbane,                           130
 Robert O'Hara Burke,                                  144
 William John Wills,                                   145
 Sir John Franklin,                                    156
 Queen Truganina, the last of the Tasmanians,          163
 King William Street, Adelaide,                        167
 George Street, Sydney,                                169
 The Lithgow Zigzag, the Blue Mountains,               172
 The Town Hall, Sydney,                                174
 Collins Street, Melbourne,                            177
 Town Hall, Melbourne,                                 182
 Port of Melbourne,                                    183
 A Maori Dwelling,                                     185
 Milford Sound, South Island, New Zealand,             191
 Rev. S. Marsden, "the Apostle of New Zealand,"        195
 Auckland, from the Wharf,                             206
 Stronghold of the Maoris at Rangiriri,                222
 Sir George Grey,                                      224
 Knox Church, Dunedin,                                 228
 Christchurch Cathedral,                               230
 The Maori King,                                       232
 Rangiriri, from the Waikato,                          236
 The Cargill Fountain,                                 243
 Victoria Defence Fleet,                               245

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

 CHAPTER                                              PAGE
     I.--The Early Discoverers,                          1
    II.--Convict Settlement at Sydney, 1788 to 1890,    11
   III.--Discoveries of Bass and Flinders,              18
    IV.--New South Wales, 1800 to 1808,                 25
     V.--Tasmania, 1803 to 1836,                        31
    VI.--New South Wales, 1808 to 1837,                 38
   VII.--Discoveries in the Interior, 1817 to 1836,     48
  VIII.--Port Phillip, 1800 to 1840,                    55
    IX.--South Australia, 1836 to 1841,                 67
     X.--New South Wales, 1838 to 1850,                 75
    XI.--South Australia, 1841 to 1850,                 84
   XII.--The Discovery of Gold,                         89
  XIII.--Victoria, 1851 to 1855,                        98
   XIV.--New South Wales, 1851 to 1860,                107
    XV.--West Australia, 1829 to 1890,                 111
   XVI.--Queensland, 1823 to 1890,                     119
  XVII.--Explorations in the Interior, 1840 to 1860,   131
 XVIII.--Discoveries in the Interior, 1860 to 1886,    143
   XIX.--Tasmania, 1837 to 1890,                       155
    XX.--South Australia, 1850 to 1890,                163
   XXI.--New South Wales, 1860 to 1890,                168
  XXII.--Victoria, 1855 to 1890,                       175
 XXIII.--The Times of the Maoris,                      184
  XXIV.--New Zealand Colonised,                        200
   XXV.--White Men and Maoris,                         215
  XXVI.--New Zealand, 1843 to 1890,                    227

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.

CHAPTER I.

THE EARLY DISCOVERERS.

#1.# To the people who lived four centuries ago in Europe only a very small portion of the
earth's surface was known. Their geography was confined to the regions lying immediately around
the Mediterranean, and including Europe, the north of Africa, and the west of Asia. Round these
there was a margin, obscurely and imperfectly described in the reports of merchants; but by
far the greater part of the world was utterly unknown. Great realms of darkness stretched all
beyond, and closely hemmed in the little circle of light. In these unknown lands our ancestors
loved to picture everything that was strange and mysterious. They believed that the man who
could penetrate far enough would find countries where inexhaustible riches were to be gathered
without toil from fertile shores, or marvellous valleys; and though wild tales were told of
the dangers supposed to fill these regions, yet to the more daring and adventurous these only
made the visions of boundless wealth and enchanting loveliness seem more fascinating.

Thus, as the art of navigation improved, and long voyages became possible, courageous seamen
were tempted to venture out into the great unknown expanse. Columbus carried his trembling
sailors over great tracts of unknown ocean, and discovered the two continents of America; Vasco
di Gama penetrated far to the south, and rounded the Cape of Good Hope; Magellan, passing through
the straits now called by his name, was the first to enter the Pacific Ocean; and so in the
case of a hundred others, courage and skill carried the hardy seaman over many seas and into
many lands that had lain unknown for ages.

Australia was the last part of the world to be thus visited and explored. In the year 1600,
during the times of Shakespeare, the region to the south of the East Indies was still as little
known as ever; the rude maps of those days had only a great blank where the islands of Australia
should have been. Most people thought there was nothing but the ocean in that part of the world;
and as the voyage was dangerous and very long--requiring several years for its completion--scarcely
any one cared to run the risk of exploring it.

#2. De Quiros.#--There was, however, an enthusiastic seaman who firmly believed that a great
continent existed there, and who longed to go in search of it. This was De Quiros, a Spaniard,
who had already sailed with a famous voyager, and now desired to set out on an expedition of
his own. He spent many years in beseeching the King of Spain to furnish him with ships and
men so that he might seek this southern continent. King Philip for a long time paid little
attention to his entreaties, but was at last overcome by his perseverance, and told De Quiros
that, though he himself had no money for such purposes, he would order the Governor of Peru
to provide the necessary vessels. De Quiros carried the king's instructions to Peru, and two
ships were soon prepared and filled with suitable crews--the Capitana and the Almiranta, with
a smaller vessel called the Zabra to act as tender. A nobleman named Torres was appointed second
in command, and they set sail from Peru, on a prosperous voyage across the Pacific, discovering
many small islands on their way, and seeing for the first time the Coral Islands of the South
Seas. At length (1606) they reached a shore which stretched as far as they could see both north
and south, and De Quiros thought he had discovered the great Southern Continent. He called
the place "Tierra Australis del Espiritu Santo," that is, the "Southern Land of the Holy Spirit".
It is now known that this was not really a continent, but merely one of the New Hebrides Islands,
and more than a thousand miles away from the mainland. The land was filled by high mountains,
verdure-clad to their summits, and sending down fine streams, which fell in hoarse-sounding
waterfalls from the edges of the rocky shore, or wandered amid tropical luxuriance of plants
down to the golden sands that lay within the coral barriers. The inhabitants came down to the
edge of the green and shining waters making signs of peace, and twenty soldiers went ashore,
along with an officer, who made friends with them, exchanging cloth for pigs and fruit. De
Quiros coasted along the islands for a day or two till he entered a fine bay, where his vessels
anchored, and Torres went ashore. A chief came down to meet him, offering him a present of
fruit, and making signs to show that he did not wish the Spaniards to intrude upon his land.
As Torres paid no attention, the chief drew a line upon the sand, and defied the Spaniards
to cross it. Torres immediately stepped over it, and the natives launched some arrows at him,
which dropped harmlessly from his iron armour. Then the Spaniards fired their muskets, killing
the chief and a number of the naked savages. The rest stood for a moment, stupefied at the
noise and flash; then turned and ran for the mountains.

The Spaniards spent a few pleasant days among the fruit plantations, and slept in cool groves
of overarching foliage; but subsequently they had quarrels and combats with the natives, of
whom they killed a considerable number. When the Spaniards had taken on board a sufficient
supply of wood and of fresh water they set sail, but had scarcely got out to sea when a fever
spread among the crew, and became a perfect plague. They returned and anchored in the bay,
where the vessels lay like so many hospitals. No one died, and after a few days they again
put to sea, this time to be driven back again by bad weather. Torres, with two ships, safely
reached the sheltering bay, but the vessel in which De Quiros sailed was unable to enter it,
and had to stand out to sea and weather the storm. The sailors then refused to proceed further
with the voyage, and, having risen in mutiny, compelled De Quiros to turn the vessel's head
for Mexico, which they reached after some terrible months of hunger and thirst.

#3. Torres.#--The other ships waited for a day or two, but no signs being seen of their consort,
they proceeded in search of it. In this voyage Torres sailed round the land, thus showing that
it was no continent, but only an island. Having satisfied himself that it was useless to seek
for De Quiros, he turned to the west, hoping to reach the Philippine Islands, where the Spaniards
had a colony, at Manila. It was his singular fortune to sail through that opening which lies
between New Guinea and Australia, to which the name of "Torres Strait" was long afterwards
applied. He probably saw Cape York rising out of the sea to the south, but thought it only
another of those endless little islands with which the strait is studded. Poor De Quiros spent
the rest of his life in petitioning the King of Spain for ships to make a fresh attempt. After
many years he obtained another order to the Governor of Peru, and the old weather-beaten mariner
once more set out from Spain full of hope; but at Panama, on his way, death awaited him, and
there the fiery-souled veteran passed away, the last of the great Spanish navigators. He died
in poverty and disappointment, but he is to be honoured as the first of the long line of Australian
discoverers. In after years, the name he had invented was divided into two parts; the island
he had really discovered being called Espiritu Santo, while the continent he thought he had
discovered was called Terra Australis. This last name was shortened by another discoverer--Flinders--to
the present term Australia.

#4. The Duyfhen.#--De Quiros and Torres were Spaniards, but the Dutch also displayed much anxiety
to reach the great South Continent. From their colony at Java they sent out a small vessel,
the Duyfhen, or Dove, which sailed into the Gulf of Carpentaria, and passed half-way down along
its eastern side. Some sailors landed, but so many of them were killed by the natives that
the captain was glad to embark again and sail for home, after calling the place of their disaster
Cape Keer-weer, or Turnagain. These Dutch sailors were the first Europeans, as far as can now
be known, who landed on Australian soil; but as they never published any account of their voyage,
it is only by the merest chance that we know anything of it.

#5. Other Dutch Discoverers.#--During the next twenty years various Dutch vessels, while sailing
to the settlements in the East Indies, met with the coast of Australia. In 1616 Dirk Hartog
landed on the island in Shark Bay which is now called after him. Two years later Captain Zaachen
is said to have sailed along the north coast, which he called Arnhem Land. Next year (1619)
another captain, called Edel, surveyed the western shores, which for a long time bore his name.
In 1622 a Dutch ship, the Leeuwin, or Lioness, sailed along the southern coast, and its name
was given to the south-west cape of Australia. In 1627 Peter Nuyts entered the Great Australian
Bight, and made a rough chart of some of its shores; in 1628 General Carpenter sailed completely
round the large gulf to the north, which has taken its name from this circumstance. Thus, by
degrees, all the northern and western, together with part of the southern shores, came to be
roughly explored, and the Dutch even had some idea of colonising this continent.

#6. Tasman.#--During the next fourteen years we hear no more of voyages to Australia; but in
1642 Antony Van Diemen, the Governor of the Dutch possessions in the East Indies, sent out
his friend Abel Jansen Tasman, with two ships, to make new discoveries in the South Seas. Tasman
first went to the Island of Bourbon, from which he sailed due south for a time; but finding
no signs of land, he turned to the east, and three months after setting out he saw a rocky
shore in the distance. Stormy weather coming on, he was driven out to sea, and it was not till
a week later that he was able to reach the coast again. He called the place Van Diemen's Land,
and sent some sailors on shore to examine the country. These men heard strange noises in the
woods, and saw trees of enormous height, in which notches were cut seven feet apart. These
they believed to be the steps used by the natives in climbing the trees, and they therefore
returned to report that the land was exceedingly beautiful, but inhabited by men of gigantic
size. Tasman, next day, allowed the carpenter to swim ashore and set up the Dutch flag; but
having himself seen, from his ship, what he thought to be men of extraordinary stature moving
about on the shore, he lost no time in taking up his anchor and setting sail. Farther to the
east he discovered the islands of New Zealand, and after having made a partial survey of their
coasts, he returned to Batavia. Two years after he was sent on a second voyage of discovery,
and explored the northern and western shores of Australia itself; but the results do not seem
to have been important, and are not now known. His chief service in the exploration of Australia
was the discovery of Tasmania, as it is now called, after his name. This he did not know to
be an island; he drew it on his maps as if it were a peninsula belonging to the mainland of
Australia.

#7. Dampier.#--The discoveries that had so far been made were very imperfect, for the sailors
generally contented themselves with looking at the land from a safe distance. They made no
surveys such as would have enabled them to draw correct charts of the coasts; they seldom landed,
and even when they did, they never sought to become acquainted with the natives, or to learn
anything as to the nature of the interior of the country. The first who took the trouble to
obtain information of this more accurate kind was the Englishman, William Dampier.

When a young man Dampier had gone out to Jamaica to manage a large estate; but not liking the
slave-driving business, he crossed over to Campeachy, and lived for a time in the woods, cutting
the more valuable kinds of timber. Here he became acquainted with the buccaneers who made the
lonely coves of Campeachy their headquarters. Being persuaded to join them, he entered upon
a life of lawless daring, constantly fighting and plundering, and meeting with the wildest
adventures. He was often captured by the American natives, still more often by the Spaniards,
but always escaped to enter upon exploits of fresh danger. In 1688 he joined a company of buccaneers,
who proposed to make a voyage round the world and plunder on their way. It took them more than
a year to reach the East Indies, where they spent a long time, sometimes attacking Spanish
ships or Dutch fortresses, sometimes leading an easy luxurious life among the natives, often
quarrelling among themselves, and even going so far as to leave their captain with forty men
on the island of Mindanao. But at length the time came when it was necessary to seek some quiet
spot where they should be able to clean and repair the bottoms of their ships. Accordingly,
they landed on the north-west coast of Australia, and lived for twelve days at the place now
called "Buccaneers' Archipelago". They were the first Europeans who held any communication
with the natives of Australia, and the first to publish a detailed account of their voyage
thither. Growing tired of a lawless life, and having become wealthy, Dampier bought an estate
in England, where he lived some years in retirement, till his love of adventure led him forth
again. The King of England was anxious to encourage discovery, and fitted out a vessel called
the Roebuck, to explore the southern seas. Dampier was the only man in England who had ever
been to Australia, and to him was given the command of the little vessel, which sailed in the
year 1699. It took a long time to reach Australia, but at last the Roebuck entered what Dampier
called Shark Bay, from an enormous shark he caught there. He then explored the north-west coast
as far as Roebuck Bay, in all about nine hundred miles; of which he published a full and fairly
accurate account. He was a man of keen observation, and delighted to describe the habits and
manners of the natives, as well as peculiarities in the plants and animals, of the various
places he visited. During the time he was in Australia he frequently met with the blacks and
became well acquainted with them. He gives this description of their appearance:--

"The inhabitants are the most miserable wretches in the universe, having no houses nor garments.
They feed upon a few fish, cockles, mussels, and periwinkles. They are without religion and
without government. In figure they are tall, straight-bodied and thin, with small, long limbs."

The country itself, he says, is low and sandy, with no fresh water and scarcely any animals
except one which looks like a racoon, and jumps about on its long hind legs. Altogether, his
description is not prepossessing; and he says that the only pleasure he had found in this part
of his voyage was the satisfaction of having discovered the most barren spot on the face of
the earth.

This account is, in most respects, correct, so far as regards the portion of Australia visited
by Dampier. But, unfortunately, he saw only the most inhospitable part of the whole continent.
There are many parts whose beauty would have enchanted him, but as he had sailed along nearly
a thousand miles without seeing any shore that was not miserable, it is not to be wondered
at that he reported the whole land to be worthless. He was subsequently engaged in other voyages
of discovery, in one of which he rescued the famous Alexander Selkirk from his lonely island;
but, amid all his subsequent adventures, he never entertained the idea of returning to Australia.

Dampier published a most interesting account of all his travels in different parts of the world,
and his book was for a long time the standard book of travels. Defoe used the materials it
contained for his celebrated novel, Robinson Crusoe. But it turned away the tide of discovery
from Australia; for those who read of the beautiful islands and rich countries Dampier had
elsewhere visited would never dream of incurring the labour and expense of a voyage to so dull
and barren a spot as Australia seemed to be from the description in his book. Thus we hear
of no further explorations in this part of the world until nearly a century after; and, even
then, no one thought of sending out ships specially for the purpose.

#8. Captain Cook.#--But in the year 1770 a series of important discoveries was indirectly brought
about. The Royal Society of London, calculating that the planet Venus would cross the disc
of the sun in 1769, persuaded the English Government to send out an expedition to the Pacific
Ocean for the purpose of making observations which would enable astronomers to calculate the
distance of the earth from the sun. A small vessel, the Endeavour, was chosen; astronomers
with their instruments embarked, and the whole placed under the charge of James Cook, a sailor
whose admirable character fully merited this distinction. At thirteen he had been a shopkeeper's
assistant, but, preferring the sea, he had become an apprentice in a coal vessel. After many
years of rude life in this trade, during which he contrived to carry on his education in mathematics
and navigation, he entered the Royal Navy, and by diligence and honesty rose to the rank of
master. He had completed so many excellent surveys in North America, and, besides, had made
himself so well acquainted with astronomy, that the Government had no hesitation in making
their choice. That it was a wise one, the care and success of Cook fully showed. He carried
the expedition safely to Tahiti, built fortifications, and erected instruments for the observations,
which were admirably made. Having finished this part of his task, he thought it would be a
pity, with so fine a ship and crew, not to make some discoveries in these little-known seas.
He sailed south for a time without meeting land; then, turning west, he reached those islands
of New Zealand which had been first seen by Tasman. But Cook made a far more complete exploration
than had been possible to Tasman. For six months he examined their shores, sailing completely
round both islands and making excellent maps of them.

Then, saying good-bye to these coasts at what he named Cape Farewell, he sailed westward for
three weeks, until his outlook man raised the cry of "land," and they were close to the shores
of Australia at Cape Howe. Standing to the north-east, he sailed along the coast till he reached
a fine bay, where he anchored for about ten days. On his first landing he was opposed by two
of the natives, who seemed quite ready to encounter more than forty armed men. Cook endeavoured
to gain their good-will, but without success. A musket fired between them startled, but did
not dismay them; and when some small shot was fired into the legs of one of them, though he
turned and ran into his hut, it was only for the purpose of putting on a shield and again facing
the white men. Cook made many subsequent attempts to be friendly with the natives, but always
without success. He examined the country for a few miles inland, and two of his scientific
friends--Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander--made splendid collections of botanical specimens.
From this circumstance the place was called Botany Bay, and its two headlands received the
names of Cape Banks and Cape Solander. It was here that Captain Cook, amid the firing of cannons
and volleys of musketry, took possession of the country on behalf of His Britannic Majesty,
giving it the name, "New South Wales," on account of the resemblance of its coasts to the southern
shores of Wales.

Shortly after they had set sail from Botany Bay they observed a small opening in the land;
but Cook did not stay to examine it, merely marking it on his chart as "Port Jackson," in honour
of his friend Sir George Jackson. The vessel still continued her course northward along the
coast, till they anchored in Moreton Bay. After a short stay, they again set out towards the
north, making a rough chart of the shores they saw. In this way they had sailed along thirteen
hundred miles without serious mishap, when one night, at about eleven o'clock, they found the
sea grow very shallow; all hands were quickly on deck, but before the ship could be turned
she struck heavily on a sunken rock. No land was to be seen, and they therefore concluded that
it was upon a bank of coral they had struck. The vessel seemed to rest upon the ridge; but,
as the swell of the ocean rolled past, she bumped very heavily. Most of the cannons and other
heavy articles were thrown overboard, and, the ship being thus lightened, they tried to float
her off at daybreak. This they were unable to do; but, by working hard all next day, they prepared
everything for a great effort at the evening tide, and had the satisfaction of seeing the rising
waters float the vessel off. But now the sea was found to be pouring in through the leaks so
rapidly that, even with four pumps constantly going, they could scarcely keep her afloat. They
worked hard day and night, but the ship was slowly sinking, when, by the ingenious device of
passing a sail beneath her and pulling it tightly, it was found that the leakage was sufficiently
decreased to keep her from foundering. Shortly after, they saw land, which Captain Cook called
"Cape Tribulation". He took the vessel into the mouth of a small river, which they called the
Endeavour, and there careened her. On examining the bottom, it was found that a great sharp
rock had pierced a hole in her timbers, such as must inevitably have sent her to the bottom
in spite of pumps and sails, had it not been that the piece of coral had broken off and remained
firmly fixed in the vessel's side, thus itself filling up the greater part of the hole it had
caused. The ship was fully repaired; and, after a delay of two months, they proceeded northward
along the coast to Cape York. They then sailed through Torres Strait, and made it clear that
New Guinea and Australia are not joined.

#9. Subsequent Visits.#--Several ships visited Australia during the next few years, but their
commanders contented themselves with merely viewing the coasts which had already been discovered,
and returned without adding anything new. In 1772 Marion, a Frenchman, and next year Furneaux,
an Englishman, sailed along the coasts of Van Diemen's Land. In 1777 Captain Cook, shortly
before his death, anchored for a few days in Adventure Bay, on the east coast of Van Diemen's
Land. La Perouse, Vancouver, and D'Entrecasteaux also visited Australia, and, though they added
nothing of importance, they assisted in filling in the details. By this time nearly all the
coasts had been roughly explored, and the only great point left unsettled was, whether Van
Diemen's Land was an island or not.

CHAPTER II.

THE CONVICT SETTLEMENT AT SYDNEY, 1788-1800.

#1. Botany Bay.#--The reports brought home by Captain Cook completely changed the beliefs current
in those days with regard to Australia. From the time of Dampier it had been supposed that
the whole of this continent must be the same flat and miserable desert as the part he described.
Cook's account, on the other hand, represented the eastern coast as a country full of beauty
and promise. Now, it so happened that, shortly after Cook's return, the English nation had
to deal with a great difficulty in regard to its criminal population. In 1776 the United States
declared their independence, and the English then found they could no longer send their convicts
over to Virginia, as they had formerly done. In a short time the gaols of England were crowded
with felons. It became necessary to select a new place of transportation; and, just as this
difficulty arose, Captain Cook's voyages called attention to a land in every way suited for
such a purpose, both by reason of its fertility and of its great distance. Viscount Sydney,
therefore, determined to send out a party to Botany Bay, in order to found a convict settlement
there; and in May, 1787, a fleet was ready to sail. It consisted of the Sirius war-ship, its
tender the Supply, together with six transports for the convicts, and three ships for carrying
the stores. Of the convicts, five hundred and fifty were men and two hundred and twenty were
women. To guard these, there were on board two hundred soldiers. Captain Phillip was appointed
Governor of the colony, Captain Hunter was second in command, and Mr. Collins went out as judge-advocate,
to preside in the military courts, which it was intended to establish for the administration
of justice. On the 18th, 19th, and 20th of January, 1788, the vessels arrived, one after another,
in Botany Bay, after a voyage of eight months, during which many of the convicts had died from
diseases brought on by so long a confinement.

#2. Port Jackson.#--As soon as the ships had anchored in Botany Bay, convicts were landed and
commenced to clear the timber from a portion of the land; but a day or two was sufficient to
show the unsuitability of Botany Bay for such a settlement. Its waters were so shallow that
the ships could not enter it properly, and had to lie near the Heads, where the great waves
of the Pacific rolled in on them by night and day. Governor Phillip, therefore, took three
boats, and sailed out to search for some more convenient harbour. As he passed along the coast
he turned to examine the opening which Captain Cook had called Port Jackson, and soon found
himself in a winding channel of water, with great cliffs frowning overhead. All at once a magnificent
prospect opened on his eyes. A harbour, which is, perhaps, the most beautiful and perfect in
the world, stretched before him far to the west, till it was lost on the distant horizon. It
seemed a vast maze of winding waters, dotted here and there with lovely islets; its shores
thickly wooded down to the strips of golden sand which lined the most charming little bays;
and its broad sheets of rippling waters bordered by lines of dusky foliage. The scene has always
been one of surpassing loveliness; but to those who filled the first boats that ever threw
the foam from its surface, who felt themselves the objects of breathless attention to groups
of natives who stood gazing here and there from the projecting rocks, it must have had an enchanting
effect. To Captain Phillip himself, whose mind had been filled with anxiety and despondency
as to the future prospects of his charge, it opened out like the vision of a world of new hope
and promise.

Three days were spent in examining portions of this spacious harbour, and in exploring a few
of its innumerable bays. Captain Phillip selected, as the place most suitable for the settlement,
a small inlet, which, in honour of the Minister of State, he called Sydney Cove. It was so
deep as to allow vessels to approach to within a yard or two of the shore, thus avoiding the
necessity of spending time and money in building wharves or piers. After a few days the fleet
was brought round and lay at anchor in this little cove which is now the crowded Circular Quay.
The convicts were landed, and commenced to clear away the trees on the banks of a small stream
which stole silently through a very dense wood. When an open space had been obtained, a flagstaff
was erected near the present battery on Dawe's Point; the soldiers fired three volleys, and
the Governor read his commission to the assembled company. Then began a scene of noise and
bustle. From dawn to sunset, nothing could be heard but the sound of axes, hammers, and saws,
with the crash of trees and the shouts of the convict overseers. They lost no time in preparing
their habitations on shore; for the confinement of the overcrowded ships had become intolerably
hateful.

