Lagerfeldt informed Whitelocke that Grave Eric and Lagerfeldt were to go to Stockholm upon
some public occasions by command of the Ricksdag. Whitelocke asked him what the business was;
but Lagerfeldt was not forward to declare it, nor Whitelocke to press it; but he learned from
another that the Ricksdag had deputed two of every State to go to Stockholm to extract out
of the public records and acts the special privileges granted to the people at the coronation
of any king, and of the present Queen, which they judged fit to be now considered and ratified
before the coronation of their new King. They were also to bring hither the acts of the Ricksdag
when the Prince was declared heir of the crown, and such other things as pertained to this
business. Whitelocke desired Lagerfeldt to do somewhat for him at Stockholm touching the sending
away of his copper from thence for England.

May 18, 1654.

[SN: The Ladies' message to Whitelocke.]

The ladies who were at Whitelocke's house to see the entry of the Prince, sent thanks to Whitelocke
for his noble treatment of them, which was done by Woolfeldt and the master of the ceremonies,
whom Whitelocke desired to make his excuse to the ladies, and to intercede with them to pardon
the affront which Whitelocke had put upon them by entertaining such noble ladies with so mean
a collation. The master said he durst not deliver any such message to them, who were so well
pleased with Whitelocke's treatment of them; which appeared the more, in that the Lady Woolfeldt
sent to him to bestow upon her, being great with child, some of his English cheese. Whitelocke
sent her all he had left, and to other ladies what they desired, his English sweetmeats and
other cakes, which with them were of great esteem.

[SN: The Prince visits Whitelocke.]

Whitelocke having this forenoon visited several Senators and great Lords, and being returned
home, a servant of the Prince, a Baron of great esteem, came to him from the Prince, to know
if Whitelocke's leisure would permit to receive a visit from his Royal Highness in the afternoon.
Whereunto Whitelocke answered, that if the Prince had any service to command him, he would
wait upon his Royal Highness at his Court; the Baron replied, that the Prince intended a visit
to Whitelocke at Whitelocke's house, who said he could not expect nor admit of such a condescension
in the Prince and high favour to him, but that he would wait upon the Prince in the afternoon.
The Baron said that must not be, but that it was the resolution of the Prince to testify that
extraordinary respect to the Protector and to Whitelocke, as to come in person to visit Whitelocke
at his own house; who said, that if it were the pleasure of the Prince to have it so, he should
attend the receiving of that great honour at such a time as his Royal Highness should think
fit to afford it to him.

Woolfeldt, and Douglas, and several others, being with Whitelocke at dinner, they discoursed
of this extraordinary high respect of the Prince to the Protector and to Whitelocke, and said
that it was partly occasioned by the exceptions taken by the public Ministers in this Court
at the reception which the Prince gave unto Whitelocke yesterday beyond what he used to afford
them of respect and honour; and this coming to the Prince's ear, he said that if they were
offended with him for that, he would yet give them further cause of being displeased, and thereupon
sent to Whitelocke that he would this afternoon visit him; they also informed Whitelocke, as
Lagerfeldt had done, that the Prince was much satisfied with the discourse of Whitelocke, and
his demeanour.

About three o'clock in the afternoon the Prince came to Whitelocke's house, attended with a
very great train. He was in one of the Queen's coaches, which was followed by several of his
own coaches, all with six horses apiece, and sundry gentlemen on horseback, with the principal
officers of the Court and of the army, besides his own gentlemen, officers, servants, pages,
and lacqueys to a great number, waiting on him. It fell out to be on the day of a fair, kept
in the open place before Whitelocke's house, so that, with the people coming to the fair, and
the Prince's train, the streets were exceedingly crowded.

As the Prince alighted out of his coach, Whitelocke was there to receive him, all the gentlemen
of Whitelocke's train attending on him, and his servants in livery making a lane, about twenty
on each hand, from the Prince's coach to Whitelocke's house, through which the Prince and he
passed, Whitelocke giving the Prince the right hand, which he scrupled not to take in that
place. They went together covered into Whitelocke's house, sat down in his bedchamber, and
fell into much freedom of discourse for above two hours together. In the meantime the lords
and gentlemen of the Prince's train being in several other rooms, according to their respective
qualities, Whitelocke had taken order to be entertained by his officers and servants, not only
with discourse, but with good wine brought from England, and such collation as was then to
be had and was pleasing to them.

The Prince and Whitelocke had variety of discourses; and Whitelocke looking upon this as an
opportunity whereby he might speak in such things as might tend to the honour of God, and which
his own subjects perhaps would not so plainly make known to him, Whitelocke used the more freedom,
and part of their discourse was--

Prince. I am very glad that your affairs have permitted you a stay in this place so long as
to give me the opportunity of your company, wherein I take much contentment.

Whitelocke. Your Royal Highness doth very much honour me in esteeming my company worth your
notice, and herein you are pleased to testify great respect to the Protector, my master, and
to the Commonwealth whom I serve.

Pr. I have a very true honour for the Protector, and for England, where I have been, and account
it one of the best countries in the world.

Wh. It is indeed, Sir, a very good country, and honoured by your knowledge of it and having
been upon it.

Pr. But I doubt that by your late troubles it may be much damaged.

Wh. Truly, Sir, God hath so ordered it that those desolations which usually attend on war,
especially a civil war, have not been so much in our country as others have felt who have been
plunged in those miseries.

Pr. It is a great blessing to you, especially considering your change hath been so great and
your troubles so lasting.

Wh. Our troubles endured a long time, but, blessed be God, at present we enjoy peace and settlement
after our changes. The discourse here is now altogether of the voluntary change like to be
in your Highness's country.

Pr. Her Majesty is pleased to take a resolution to resign her government, and I am commanded
hither upon that occasion, though altogether unsought for by me.

Wh. You are, Sir, every way worthy of it, and the more for not seeking it; and being the will
of God is to bring you to such an increase of power as to the royal dignity, it will turn most
to your own and your people's good, to employ your power to the honour of Him that gives it,
and to prefer His service by whom kings reign before any other concernments.

Pr. I must acknowledge that throughout the whole course of my life God hath been very good
to me, and I am the more engaged to honour Him and to do Him service in any station wherein
he shall be pleased to set me.

Wh. Your Royal Highness will be pleased to pardon my freedom of speaking to you what I understand
may be most for the honour of God and your service.

Pr. Such discourse is most pleasing to me, especially from a person of such piety and honour
as I esteem you to be, and who can have no private ends thereby.

Wh. We have observed in England, and it is so everywhere, that the blessing of God follows
those that serve Him.

Pr. That is a true rule; but our service must be in heart, and not in profession or outward
show only.

Wh. It is true that the enemies of the Parliament use to reproach them with hypocrisy in their
profession of religion and with their preaching to their soldiers; yet that our profession
is real doth appear somewhat in this, that the blessing of God hath accompanied our profession
and our practice; and when our enemies are in debauchery and injuring the people, our officers
and soldiers meet together, exhorting one another out of the Scripture and praying together,
and God hath given His blessing thereupon.

Pr. I do very well approve that course, and your profession and practice in matters of religion;
but we hear of too much difference of opinion among you in those matters.

Wh. We have indeed too much difference of opinion among us in matters of religion; but yet
the public peace is not broken, but carefully preserved.

Pr. But if there be not a uniformity among you in those matters, your peace will be endangered.

Wh. We do not yet find that danger; and we look upon it as a liberty due to all Christians
to take what way of worship they think best for the good of their own souls.

Pr. Suppose the way they take be not agreeable to the Word of God?

Wh. The consequence thereof will be their own misery.

Pr. But should not the magistrate lead them and constrain them in the right way?

Wh. We hold the better way to be, by meek exhortations and instructions to endeavour to reclaim
them from any error, and not by force to compel men's consciences, as is used in these parts.

Pr. What if mild means will not work upon them?

Wh. They will have the worst of it; but as long as they do not break the public peace, it is
hard for the magistrate imperiously to command and force his brethren to worship God after
his opinion; and it is not imaginable that he should take more care of men's souls than they
themselves, whose consciences ought to be free.

Pr. We are somewhat strict in this point in our country.

Wh. But I have heard that your Royal Highness hath shown moderation, and indulged this liberty,
in other countries where you commanded.

Pr. I did not think fit to be so severe in this point in Germany as we are in Sweden.

Wh. I think your Highness did therein according to the mind of God, who will not have a restraint
upon His children in the worship of Him; and I hope you will in time take off the severity
of your laws here in this particular.

Pr. I am no friend to severity of laws upon men's consciences; but reformation among us is
not soon to be brought about, where there hath been a long usage of the contrary.

Wh. In England we have of late obtained great reformation in many things, particularly touching
the observation of the Lord's Day; and pardon me, Sir, if I wish the like reformation in this
kingdom, and that the Lord's Day were not so much neglected, nay profaned, as I have seen in
this place. I hope and humbly advise your Royal Highness that, when God shall place you in
the sovereignty over this people, you will take care to provide a remedy and reformation herein,
and also of that sin of excessive drinking and swearing with which the people are so much infected,
and which may cause a fear lest the anger of God should go forth against this nation; but it
will be very much in your power to apply a fit remedy to these evils, and doubtless God will
require it at your hands, as his vicegerent.

Pr. I have not heard many soldiers discourse in this strain; but I like it well, and it becomes
you; and I hope God will assist me, if He shall call me to the government of this people, to
acquit my duty to Him and to His people for the restraining of these sins, which I acknowledge
are too common among us.

Wh. In doing so, you will render service to God, and find His blessing to accompany such most
pious, most honourable, and truly royal endeavours; and I hope your Highness will not think
amiss of this liberty which your servant hath taken, to speak to you of these things.

Pr. I am so far from thinking amiss of it or taking in ill part what you have said to me, that
I do most heartily thank you for it, and do promise that I shall be mindful to put in practice
the good counsel you have given me, as soon as it shall please God to give me an opportunity
for it, and that the temper of this people will bear it; being convinced of the duty which
lies upon me herein, and the service and honour which will thereby be done to God and to the
people of this kingdom, both in respect to their temporal and eternal estate.

Wh. I am very glad to find your Royal Highness so sensible hereof, and shall humbly and earnestly
leave it to your thoughts.

Pr. I hope I shall not forget it.[268]

They had other discourse touching the princes and states of Christendom, particularly of the
House of Austria, and of the design of the Papists against the Protestants, the which, and
the increase of the interest of Rome, Whitelocke said could not be better prevented than by
a conjunction of the Protestants; to which the Prince fully agreed. The Prince took his leave
of Whitelocke with very great respect and civility.

After the Prince was gone, there came to Whitelocke Grave Eric Oxenstiern and Lagerfeldt, to
take their leaves of Whitelocke, they being to go to Stockholm by command of the Ricksdag;
and Grave Eric gave unto Whitelocke a paper, in French, of damage sustained by a Swedish ship
taken and brought into London, which he recommended to Whitelocke to be a means that satisfaction
might be procured.

[SN: Whitelocke goes to a running at the ring.]

Whitelocke being informed that now at the Court, among other solemnities and entertainments
to welcome the Prince, the gallants used the exercise and recreation of running at the ring,
a pleasure noble and useful as to military affairs, improving horsemanship, and teaching the
guidance of the lance, a weapon still used by horsemen in these parts of the world; this generous
exercise having been in use in England in Whitelocke's memory, who had seen the lords, in presence
of the King and Queen and a multitude of spectators, in the tilt-yards at Whitehall and at
St. James's House, where the King, when he was Prince, used also that recreation: it made Whitelocke
the more desirous to see the same again, and whether, as they used it here, it were the same
with that he had seen in England. He went incognito in the coach of General Douglas, without
any of his train, to the place where the running at the ring was. He would not go into the
room where the Queen and Prince and great lords were, but sat below in a room where the judges
of the course were, with divers other gentlemen, who, though they knew Whitelocke very well,
yet seeing him cast his cloak over his shoulder, as desiring not to be known, they would take
no notice of him--a civility in these and other countries usual.

The Senator Vanderlin, Grave Tott, and the Baron Steinberg were the challengers to all the
rest; and of the other part were Marshal Wrangel, Grave Jacob de la Gardie, and nine or ten
others. All were well mounted; Wrangel upon an English horse, given him by Whitelocke. Their
clothes, scarfs, feathers, and all accoutrements, both of men and horse, were very gallant.
They ran for a prize which the Queen had ordained, and they comported themselves with much
activeness and bravery; and it was the same exercise which Whitelocke had formerly seen in
his own country.

May 19, 1654.

[SN: The Sound Dues.]

Woolfeldt visited Whitelocke in the morning, and brought with him a paper concerning the Sound,
written in French with his own hand, wherein he showed much affection to the Protector and
to England, and as much distaste to his own country. The paper Whitelocke laid up, and transcribed
in a larger treatise.

[SN: Effect of the Prince's visit.]

Woolfeldt acquainted Whitelocke that the public ministers in this Court discoursed much of
the extraordinary respect showed by the Prince to the English Ambassador, both in his reception
and the Prince's visit to him. And particularly the Danish Ambassador was greatly discontented,
and said that never any ambassador had that honour done him before, and it was so far beyond
what he had received that he knew not how to bear it; that the entertainment of public ministers
of the same character ought to be with the same ceremony, and not one to be preferred so much
as the English Ambassador had been before others of equal quality with him, and much matter
of complaint of that nature; which being reported to the Prince, he said that neither the Danish
Ambassador nor any other public minister had cause to complain that he had not given them the
respect due to their several qualities; and if he, out of a particular affection to the English
Protector and Ambassador, had a mind to express more than ordinary particular respects to them,
it was no wrong or cause of complaint to any other public minister, who had what was due to
him, because another had perhaps more than was due to him; and he said he understood not why
his condition should render him less capable than other gentlemen to show particular respects
where they did bear a particular affection.

General Douglas, a Scottish gentleman in great favour and honour in this country, came late
this year to the Court, being hindered by a violent ague upon his coming hither. He made frequent
visits to Whitelocke, and expressed much of respect and civility to him as his countryman.

[SN: Whitelocke dines with General Douglas.]

This day Whitelocke was to dine with Douglas by a solemn invitation; and during the whole time
of his residence in this Court he never was invited to any of their tables, but now to Douglas,
and before to Grave Eric, notwithstanding the freedom of his table to most of them. With Whitelocke
were invited his two sons, Potley, Beake, and Croke. There they met Grave John Oxenstiern,
Wrangel, Wittenberg, Bundt, Horne, Vanderlin, Colonel Bannier, and one of the Prince's servants.
Of these that thus met, nine had been in commission as generals, two of the English and of
the Swedes seven, which was noted as very observable. They sat at table in the same manner
as they did at Grave Eric's entertainment, Whitelocke in the midst of the table, the company
in their ranks on either side, and all the dinner they sat bare.

The entertainment was very high and noble, as could be had in this place, and four courses
very full, which made a long dinner, in which time Whitelocke was solicited often to begin
and pledge healths, which he would not do, but left others to their liberty, as he desired
his. The healths they drank among themselves were in large beer-glasses of sack, which made
them discourse the more freely; and most of it was of England and the late troubles there,
of particular passages of the war, of Scotland, of the fleet now at sea, and the Dutch treaty;
in all which Whitelocke gave them some satisfaction, as they did to him touching the Queen's
resignation, the present Ricksdag, and the new King's coronation.

[SN: Whitelocke receives a jewel from the Prince.]

The same gentleman who had been before from the Prince with Whitelocke, a Baron of great account,
first gentleman of the Prince's bedchamber, a proper, well accomplished person, came to Whitelocke
by command of the Prince, with remembrance of his Highness's hearty respects and affection
to Whitelocke. After some compliments passed, the Baron took out of his pocket a little box
of crimson velvet, and told Whitelocke that his Royal Highness had commanded him to present
to Whitelocke that token of the Prince's love and respects to him, and, opening the box, showed
to Whitelocke a noble jewel, a case of gold enamelled, the one side of it set thick all over
with diamonds, some of them fair ones, and on the other side was the Prince's picture, lively
and well taken.

The Baron said to Whitelocke that the Prince desired his excuse because in so short a time
he could not procure a better present, but he desired Whitelocke to accept of this as a testimony
of his affection to him. Whitelocke answered, that he had not merited so much favour from his
Royal Highness, but desired the Baron to return his hearty thanks to the Prince, which he would
also do himself when he had the honour to come in his presence.

[SN: Account of presents made by Whitelocke.]

Upon this occasion Whitelocke took account of the presents which he had in this Court, besides
the several and many gratuities and rewards which he had formerly bestowed on many of the Queen's
inferior servants, as musicians, guards, pages, lacqueys, trumpets, coachmen, wardrobe men,
and others; to whom he had been liberal, to a considerable sum, necessary in his judgement
to be done for the honour of his nation, and agreeable to what had been constantly by ambassadors
there before him.

Besides these smaller matters, first he sent to the Queen eight black English horses, very
handsome, large, brave, and useful horses for the coach, and now in good case; four saddle-horses
he had formerly presented to her, all of them were in this place worth to be sold £1000. The
looking-glass which he gave the Queen when she was his Valentine was worth £100, besides an
English Bible richly bound, English stuffs, a cabinet of spirits, and other smaller presents.
The Queen's officers gave no reward to Whitelocke's gentleman of his horse, the clerk of his
stable, or to his coachman and people that carried them, though it was presumed that the Queen
had ordered it, as she had done upon other the like occasions.

To the Prince Whitelocke presented seven bay English horses, very handsome and serviceable
for the coach; for which the Prince returned many thanks, being most acceptable to him, as
he expressed, and sent a chain of gold of the value of two hundred ducats to Captain Crispe,
yeoman of Whitelocke's stables, and twenty-five ducats to the servants of Whitelocke's stable.
To the Prince, Whitelocke also presented a young English gelding of Fenwicke's breed, very
handsome and mettlesome; the more esteemed by Whitelocke, and afterwards by the Prince, when
he heard that it had been given to Whitelocke by his General.

To the old Chancellor Whitelocke presented a hogshead of good Canary wine, and a sober, handsome,
strong, well-paced English pad nag, and one of his richest saddles. To Wrangel he gave an English
gelding; to Tott another; to Wittenberg another; to Steinberg another; to Douglas another;
and to such of the great men as the Queen directed. To Lagerfeldt he gave a clock, excellently
made, which he used to have constantly with him.

To Secretary Canterstein he sent his secretary Earle with a silver standish, curiously wrought;
at sight of which Canterstein seemed much discontented, till Earle showed him the manner of
opening the standish, and in it forty pieces of English gold, of jacobuses, which made the
present very acceptable. In like manner Whitelocke sent to the master of the ceremonies an
English beaver hat, with a gold hatband, and a pair of rich English gloves; at which the Master
seemed offended, saying that ambassadors used to send better presents to the master of ceremonies;
but being desired to try if the gloves would fit him, he found therein forty twenty-shilling
pieces of English gold, and thereby much satisfaction in the present.

To Grave Eric's lady Whitelocke presented a clock of the new make, to hang by the wall, set
in ebony, with rich studs of silver. To "la Belle Comtesse," the Lady Jane Ruthven and other
ladies, he presented English gloves, ribbons, silk stockings, and the like, which are of great
account with them.

All the presents given away by Whitelocke in this court were estimated above £3000, and the
jewels and copper bestowed on him were near the same value; so that none could accuse him to
be a receiver of rewards, or that he had enriched himself by this employment.

[SN: Whitelocke takes leave of the Prince and exhorts him.]

Whitelocke had desired this day another audience of the Prince to take his leave; and towards
the evening the master of the ceremonies came with two of the Queen's coaches and brought Whitelocke
to the Prince's lodging, who received him with the like or greater respect than he had done
before. They went directly together to the Prince's cabinet, where two chairs were set. They
discoursed about half an hour upon the same subjects as their last discourse was; and now also
Whitelocke earnestly advised the Prince to those things which would tend to the honour of God
and to the reformation of disorders, drunkenness, swearing, and profanation of the Lord's Day,
which Whitelocke told him God would require at his hands to see reformed when he should be
called to the government of this kingdom, with much to the like effect; esteeming it seasonable
for him to take this opportunity of pressing these things to the Prince, as he also did liberty
of conscience, and what he hoped was for promoting the interest of Christ in these countries.
The Prince gave good ear to these things, and seemed sensible of what was said to him; and
by his answers gave hopes that when he should come to the opportunity he would endeavour the
reformation of those great reigning sins in his country, whereof he professed his own detestation.

Whitelocke going to take his leave, the Prince desired him to stay longer, as pleased with
the discourse on this subject; but Whitelocke was desired by the master of the ceremonies not
to continue longer with the Prince, because the Queen staid within purposely for Whitelocke's
coming to her. At his parting the Prince desired Whitelocke to testify his respects to the
Protector and Commonwealth of England; and told Whitelocke that he might assure himself of
a most entire affection to his person from the Prince, who wished him a happy return to his
own country.

[SN: Visits the Queen, to take leave;]

From the Prince Whitelocke made a visit to the Queen. Grave Tott conducted him to her bedchamber,
where they discoursed about half an hour touching her Majesty's affairs. She again mentioned
her purpose of going to the Spa, and to go thither by land; she desired Whitelocke not to speak
much of it; she said that perhaps she might yet see him at Stockholm, but, if she did not,
that she would write a letter to the Protector, and send it thither to Whitelocke, upon the
subject of which they had formerly spoken.

Whitelocke advised her, as he had done before, and promised to take care of her letter to the
Protector, and to improve his interest the best he could for effecting what her Majesty desired,
in case there should be occasion for it. She thanked Whitelocke for his advice, wherewith she
seemed to be pleased, and resolved to observe it; and expressed very great respect and affection
to the Protector and to Whitelocke, whom she desired to assure the Protector in her Majesty's
name of the sincere affection and honour which she did bear him, and which she should continue,
in whatsoever condition she should be. She wished Whitelocke a happy voyage, and with many
compliments, full of great respect and civility, but not so cheerful as formerly; she twice
gave him her hand to kiss, and so took leave of him.

[SN: and the Chancellor.]

From the Court Whitelocke went and visited the Chancellor, and delivered to him (what he had
before promised and was put in mind to do) an engagement under his hand to procure a supply
of the defect of power, which they excepted to in his commission. The engagement was thus:--

    "Polliceor plenam me mihi potentiam ac facultatem procuraturum à sua
    Serenissima Celsitudine Domino meo, Domino Protectore Reipublicæ
    Angliæ, Scotiæ, et Hiberniæ, intra trimestre spatium, ab appulsu
    meo in quemlibet portum Angliæ, ad supplendum qualemcunque defectum
    facultatis ac potentiæ mihi antehac datæ, ad tractandum cum
    Serenissima Majestate sua Regina Sueciæ aut commissariis suis, et ad
    rata habenda omnia, quæ inter Majestatem suam vel suos commissarios
    et me conclusa fuerint. Datum Upsaliæ 18^o Maii, anno Domini 1654.

                                           "BULSTRODE WHITELOCKE."

The Chancellor and Whitelocke fell into discourse touching their Ricksdag; part whereof follows.

[SN: The Swedish Diet and Constitution.]

Whitelocke. I received much satisfaction in the favour of being admitted to see the manner
of the meeting and proceedings of your Ricksdag, and shall be glad to be instructed by you
touching some of the passages of it.

Chancellor. I shall be ready to inform you the best I can in these matters, and I have had
some experience in them.

Wh. In that and all other matters touching the government of this kingdom, I believe no man's
experience or judgement will be opposed to yours. I pray, Father, let me know the ground of
proposals being made by the Queen to the Ricksdag, and whether it be as I have heard, that
they consult of nothing but what is first proposed to them by the Queen.

Chan. That is very true, and is the ground of our quiet and of avoiding factions among us;
for where a Council consists of seven or eight hundred men, as our Ricksdag doth, and they
hold themselves to have an equal liberty and power, and are most of them active spirits; if
every one amongst them might move and propound what he pleased according to his own fancy,
there would never be an end of proposals and debates, and they would break out into several
factions and the greater affairs of the kingdom be retarded, and many times thrust out to make
way for lesser matters for the most part but of private interest. Therefore the wisdom of our
Government hath so ordered it that nothing is to be consulted upon or debated by the Ricksdag,
but what is first proposed to them in writing by the King, who hath the advice of the Senators
therein; and such matters as are by them judged necessary for the good of the kingdom are by
the King proposed to the Ricksdag for their counsel in them.

Wh. This may be a good way to preserve your quiet; but may it not be ill for the rights and
liberty of the people? As to instance in particular, if it be requisite that a new law be made
relating to the people's liberty, wherein the former laws may be defective, by this course
it rests only in the power of the King and Senate whether this matter shall ever come to consideration
or not; for, unless they will propound it, no consideration can be had of it; and though it
may be necessary as to the people's rights, yet then probably it may be against the King's
power, and in that case the King will never propose it to the Ricksdag, because it makes against
his power and prerogative; and so the people are by this course debarred of the means of supplying
any defect as to their rights and liberties, unless the King, to lessen his own power, will
first propose it to them.

Chan. This were an inconvenience if the people's rights and liberties were not already settled;
but, by our laws, the boundaries of the King's power and of the people's rights are sufficiently
known and established, as the King can make no law nor alter or repeal any, nor impose any
tax, nor compel men to go out of the kingdom without the assent of the Ricksdag; and in that
Council, which is supreme in this kingdom, every man's vote and assent is included by the deputies
of the Clergy, Boroughs, and Boors, which are respectively elected, and by the chiefs of the
Nobility; so that all sorts of people have their share, either in person or by their deputies,
in the Supreme Council of the kingdom, by whom only those great matters can be done; and this
being certain and settled, any alteration in those points tends but to further uncertainty
and mischief. And if debates might be had of additions to the King's power, or to the people's
liberty, it would but occasion attempts of encroaching of one upon the other, and bring trouble
and uncertainty to both; whereas they being already clearly defined and known, and that there
is no means of altering either of them, both the King and people are content with what they
have, and endeavour nothing of disquiet unto either.

Wh. But this further debars the people from having any new law at all made, except such only
as the King shall think fit, for he only can propose them; and it is a necessary thing to supply
defects in laws and to make new ones, according as times and circumstances varying shall minister
occasion.

Chan. There is nothing more prejudicial to any government than multitude of laws, which is
prevented by this course of ours; nor is there any necessity of new laws where both the public
rights and private men's property are provided for by the laws in being, which in all nations
is from the original of their civil settlement taken care of. And though time and variety of
accidents may occasion some defects in old laws, yet it is better they should be borne with
than an inundation of new laws to be let in, which causeth uncertainty, ignorance, different
expositions, and repugnances in the laws, and are the parents of contention.

Wh. But I suppose your Ricksdag hath liberty to complain of maladministration and corruption
in officers and judges, and to punish them and cause redress of grievances; else the people
are remediless against those public crimes, without the grace and favour of the Prince to do
it of himself, which every Prince in all times will not do.

Chan. The Ricksdag may complain to the King of any offence or misdemeanour committed by any
great officer, and of any public grievance to the people; whereupon the King and Senate are
very ready (as it behoves them in justice and prudence) to give a remedy, which they are the
more induced to do, because otherwise the people's Deputies, who have the power of the purse,
may be the more backward to supply the King's occasions with money or men; and this is a good
tie upon the Court, to procure justice and redress of grievances.

Wh. Your laws are founded upon great reason and prudence, and in these and most other main
parts and particulars of them, ours are the same in England; but a liberty of proposing anything
in our Parliament belongs to every member of it.

Chan. That hath been a great occasion of all your troubles.

Wh. I expected to have heard my father, the Ricks-Chancellor, to have made an harangue in the
Ricksdag, to have acquainted them, as it is with us, with the causes of their meeting.

Chan. I confess it belongs to my place to have done it; but, by reason of an oath I had taken
to my king, to endeavour to keep the crown on his daughter's head, and this assembly was called
that she might resign it; therefore I desired to be excused from making that proposal.

Wh. Indeed her Majesty spake herself with an excellent grace and spirit, which was a wonder
to see it done by a young lady to so great and grave an assembly; and the matter of her speech,
as it was interpreted to me, was pertinent and full of weight.

Chan. Indeed she spake very well and materially, and like a prince.

Wh. I am sorry my time calls me away from further enjoyment of my father's excellent conversation.

Chan. I shall be glad if my noble son would afford me more of his company, in which I take
so much contentment.

Wh. My journey tomorrow hastens me away, and occasions your less trouble.

Chan. I pray assure the Protector of the respect and high value I have for him, and of my devoted
mind to serve him in anything within my power in this kingdom.

Wh. You have been pleased largely to testify this in my transactions, and your noble favours
and respects to your son.

Chan. You may be confident of my affection and love to you; and I desire you to be a friend
to my countrymen in England, and to take upon you their patronage in all just causes.

Wh. I shall be ready upon all occasions to perform all good offices to your Excellence and
to your family, and to all of this nation; and shall satisfy the Protector of your affections
for him, and of your kindness to his servant.

Chan. I am now an old man, and whilst I continue alive I shall do all that lies in my power
to serve the Protector and the Commonwealth of England, and shall embrace your Excellence with
a special bond of friendship, and will leave it in charge to my sons, when I am dead, to do
the same.

Wh. I shall also enjoin my children to continue that obligation of friendship which I have
contracted with your Excellence and your family.

Chan. I shall but add this further, to pray to God that of His mercy He would vouchsafe to
you a prosperous return to your own country, and that you may find there all your family and
friends in a comfortable and happy condition.

[SN: Takes leave of Oxenstiern.]

Thus the Chancellor and Whitelocke took leave of one another with as much kindness and respect
as could be expressed.[283]

Whitelocke being returned to his house, Grave John Oxenstiern came to visit him; and having
heard that Whitelocke took it ill that he had put off a visit desired by Whitelocke to this
high Grave, yet now he was pleased to descend to excuse it to Whitelocke, because his lodging
was strait and inconvenient, not fit to receive a person of Whitelocke's quality, and his lady
was at that time very much indisposed in health.

The Senator Benk Schütt came in the evening to visit Whitelocke, and discoursed freely with
him touching the Queen's resignation and their new King, and did not testify much of respect
to the Chancellor by informing Whitelocke that yesterday, at the castle, there was a great
rub, as he called it, given by the Queen to the Chancellor before the Prince and the rest of
the Senators; the occasion whereof was about the island of Elsey, which the Queen desired as
part of her provision, to which the Chancellor said, that it was worthy the consideration;
the Queen replied, "What! is my integrity then questioned?" The Chancellor answered, that he
did not question her Majesty's integrity, but spake only for her security and better satisfaction
in what she desired. The Queen said, "I understand Swedish well enough, and it was not becoming
you to question my integrity at all." Schütt said, that at this passage the rest of the senators
were pleased, and that the Prince seemed in this, and all other occasions, to be of the Queen's
mind, and to grant her more rather than less of what she desired, which was wisdom in him.

Senator Vanderlin visited Whitelocke, and, among other discourses, acquainted him the passages
of the proposal for the Queen to have married the Prince; that for this purpose the Prince
was sent for out of Germany, and the Queen seemed inclinable to the match; yet, after the Prince
was come, she used him with a strangeness which was occasioned by the whisperings of Grave
Magnus de la Gardie to the Queen, that when the Prince was in Germany he was too familiar with
some ladies; at which information, he said, the Queen was so enraged that the Prince should
go to other women, that she thereupon resolved not to marry him, but was otherwise very courteous
and full of respect to him. Whitelocke did not dispute the authenticness of this relation,
but wondered at it from a senator, touching him who was to be a king, and to use so much freedom
on such a subject to a stranger.

General Douglas, the Ricks-Admiral, and Senator Bielke, also visited Whitelocke this evening
while Vanderlin was with him; they discoursed of the discontent which the Dutch Resident expressed
before his going away, because more respect was shown to Whitelocke by the Queen and Prince,
and by the Senators and great men here, than they had shown to the Dutch Resident, who said
he was a public minister as well as the English Ambassador. Whitelocke said it was true, as
the Dutch Resident had remembered, that he was a public minister; and it might be supposed,
that being so, he should understand the difference between a Resident and an Ambassador Extraordinary;
and also between the Commonwealth of the United Provinces of the Netherlands, and that of England,
Scotland, and Ireland. The Swedish Lords replied, that if the Dutch Resident did not understand
it, nor himself, that yet it was sufficiently known in this place, and that the Resident was
but laughed at for his exceptions, as being without cause, and showing his want of experience
in matters of this nature.

After the Ricks-Admiral and Bielke were gone, Vanderlin and Douglas staid with Whitelocke and
used great freedom of discourse with him, expressing extraordinary respect to the Protector
and Commonwealth of England, and very much affection and kindness to Whitelocke, in whom they
expressed great confidence. They staid with him till past twelve o'clock at night, inconvenient
in respect of his intended journey the next day; but their company was very pleasing, and they
took leave with great civility and kindness from each to other of them.

May 20, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke commences his journey back to England.]

Whitelocke began his longed-for journey of return to England. He had taken his leave of the
Queen, Prince, Senators, and all his friends in Upsal. His business, through the goodness of
God, was successfully despatched; himself and all his people in good health, and exceeding
joyful to be on their journey homewards. He left not a penny of debt to any in this country,
nor any unrewarded who had done him service; for his hospitality, wherein no ambassador in
this Court ever exceeded him, for his conversation and dealing with all sorts of people, he
had gained their love, and left no ill name behind him. The greatest part of his baggage, and
most of his inferior servants, were on board a great hoy of the Queen's, to go by water to
Stockholm; he and the rest of his people went by land, in order to which, upon his desire,
the Hof-Stallmaster, by the Queen's command, had sent yesterday six coach-horses to be ready
in the midway from Upsal to Stockholm, and this morning he sent six other horses with Whitelocke's
blue coach to his lodging, to carry him the first half way of this day's journey, driven by
the Queen's coachman.

Berkman had provided a sufficient number of saddle-horses, if they might be so called, he having
forgot to cause saddles to be brought with them for Whitelocke's people, so that most of them
were forced to make shift with straw and cushions instead of saddles; and many of the bits
and stirrups were such as they had been acquainted with in their journey from Gothenburg hither;
and thus they rode the two first stages.

Whitelocke took coach between seven and eight o'clock in the morning, Sir George Fleetwood,
Potley, Ingelo, and Andrews, in his coach with him; the rest on horseback; they came about
noon to the place where fresh horses staid for them, and did not tarry long there, wanting
good entertainment, but, taking fresh horses both for coach and saddle, they proceeded in their
journey. The country through which they passed was better than that near the sea, less rocky
and more fruitful, not so replenished with seats of the nobility further off, as nearer to
Stockholm. By the way they met General Axy Lyllye, a Senator of Sweden, newly returned out
of Germany, and another Senator with him; they alighted out of their coach when Whitelocke
came near them, who, seeing that, did alight also. The General had lost one of his legs in
the German wars, and now carried one of wood; he and his companion were very civil in their
salutation and discourse with Whitelocke, and after compliments, and inquiry by Whitelocke
of the German news, they took leave and parted.

Whitelocke and his company arrived between five and six o'clock in the evening at Stockholm,
the journey being seven Swedish leagues, about forty English miles. As he came in the suburbs,
he saw a sad sight of many houses lately burnt down, and some pulled down to prevent the further
raging of the fire, which had consumed many scores of houses in that place; and it brought
to Whitelocke's remembrance, that one evening at Upsal, in his chamber window, he saw a great
fire in a dorf about half a league from the town, which he observed, almost in a moment, to
flash from one end of the dorf to the other, consuming all in its way,--and thus it was said
to have been in these suburbs. The reason thereof is the combustible matter whereof their houses
are built, being of fir timber and boards, which, especially being old, do suddenly take fire,
and violently burn, hard to be quenched, few houses escaping, especially in the dorfs, where
one is on fire; which causeth more than ordinary care in the inhabitants of all places to prevent
that fearful danger.

Berkman conducted Whitelocke to a lodging in the suburbs, over-against the castle, which was
used for an inn. This being post-night, Whitelocke made up his despatches for England, which
he had prepared at Upsal, where he wrote his letters, but dated them from Stockholm, that his
friends in England might thereby perceive that he was in his journey homewards, which he knew
would be no small contentment to them.

May 21, 1654.

[SN: Stockholm.]

Being the Lord's Day, divers Scotch merchants, inhabitants of this city, and some English,
came to Whitelocke's lodging to hear the sermon in the morning, and many of them did him the
honour to dine with him; he had conference with them, and good advice from them, about his
voyage to England and other matters. Lagerfeldt came also to salute Whitelocke, and to know
what service he had for him, before his going from hence this evening. Whitelocke desired him
to speak to the master of the customs, touching the shipping of his copper and other goods,
custom free; and Whitelocke prayed Lagerfeldt also to speak to Vice-Admiral Wrangel, that the
ship appointed for his transportation (which was now in the road in view of Whitelocke's lodging)
might, with as much speed as could be, fall down to the Dollars; which he promised to do.

Wrangel sent to invite Whitelocke to go this afternoon to see the ships, but Whitelocke excused
it by reason of the day, and sent word that tomorrow, if he pleased, he would wait upon him;
and desired his advice touching his voyage. In the evening Lagerfeldt came again to Whitelocke,
to give him an account what he had done by his appointment, and told Whitelocke that he should
have all contentment. With Lagerfeldt came Monsieur de Geeres to visit Whitelocke, who gave
him thanks for a vessel of claret wine which De Geeres had sent to Whitelocke, who said he
hoped he should not stay long enough to drink it out in this place.

[SN: The Queen's garden at Stockholm.]

At Upsal Whitelocke was carried to see the Queen's garden, which scarce deserved that name,
being only a piece of ground of about four or five acres, paled in according to the manner
of their paling, and had in it a few hedges which, in the latter end of May, upon the thaw,
began to appear a little green; but for flowers or fruit-trees there were none, except a few
ordinary tulips. This put Whitelocke in mind to inquire if the Queen had a better garden here
at Stockholm, where her residence usually was. The Swedes excused the meanness of the garden
at Upsal because the Court was seldom there, but here they commended the garden, and offered
Whitelocke the favour to see it. He went about seven o'clock this evening to view it, and to
walk in the Queen's garden here. It was near unto his lodging, but at a distance from the castle;
it is about six or seven acres of ground, encompassed with a pale, on which they bestow timber
enough in the posts and rails, and the pales are not set upright one by another, but crosswise
one upon another, between two great posts, with rivets for the pales to be put into, and so
to fall down one upon the other; and the pales are two inches thick or more, made of fir timber,
and the posts and rails of oak.

This garden was distinguished into walks not well kept nor gravelled, but most of them green;
few flowers were to be seen there, though more than at Upsal, and most of these were tulips
not extraordinary. The sides of the walks were set with elm-trees and the like, but no fruit-trees
were there, nor are they common in this cold country, only, as they informed Whitelocke, in
some places they have a few trees of plums, and small cherries, and of apples; but he saw none
in regard of the season, nor do many persons in these parts delight in gardens or in planting
fruits or flowers, this climate not encouraging thereunto; yet here were great boxes of wood
with orange-trees, citron-trees, and myrtle-trees, very young, planted in them; how they thrived
was not much visible.

At Whitelocke's lodging some of his people made the greater fires to air the rooms, because
the plague had been lately in this city, and in that house the chimneys, it seems, being foul,
and full of soot, were the sooner set on fire; and when Whitelocke came from walking in the
garden he found his lodging on fire. It was a stack of chimneys which took fire; a multitude
of people were ready about the house to help to quench the fire, and the officers of the city
were there to order the people. Whitelocke was surprised with this unexpected accident and
danger, amongst such houses; but after an hour's flame, the soot being spent and burnt, the
fire went out of itself; and it was a mercy that the wind set to carry the flame towards a
house which was tiled, whereas, if it had set the other way, it had carried the flame upon
houses all built and covered with wood, to the extreme danger of Whitelocke's lodging and the
whole city.

May 22, 1654.

[SN: The harbour of Stockholm and Swedish fleet.]

In the morning Berkman conducted Whitelocke to the haven, where lay many boats and vessels
great and small, and much iron upon the quay, which is convenient, but not much stored. They
passed by many fair houses belonging to the great Lords.

In the afternoon Wrangel came to Whitelocke, and conducted him to see the Queen's ships, which
lie round about an island called by them the Holm, into which island none are permitted to
enter without special license. This is a good harbour for the ships there to anchor safely.
There lay about fifty ships of war, some of them carrying eighty pieces of cannon, some sixty,
some fifty, some forty, some thirty, and all of them well fitted and useful, strongly built,
but not so nimble and serviceable for fight as our English frigates. Wrangel was now in his
element, and discoursed much with Whitelocke about the make and force and goodness of these
ships, their force and brass cannon, which were commended by Whitelocke, who showed the difference
in the make between these ships and the English frigates; that these, for strength to endure
an assault and make defence, were very good, but that the English frigates had much advantage
in their nimble tacking about, their fleet sailing to fetch up another ship, and the lying
of their guns for use of fighting; with which discourse Wrangel seemed much pleased, and he
preferred their brass cannon before those of iron, which Whitelocke assented unto as not so
soon hot with firing, nor so apt to break and splinter, and do harm to their own men as the
iron ordnance are.

Within this island is the office of the Admiralty, in a fair brick house built for that purpose;
in another building there are the forges for all the iron-work belonging to the ships; there
also are the timber yards, well stored, and places for the workmen and ship-carpenters. They
were shown there likewise the magazine of powder, bullet, match, grenadoes, with other fire
instruments; also the bake-houses, where they make provision of biscuit for the ships; it is
a great room paved with stone, wherein are three ovens for baking, and a large cellar in which
they store the biscuit. There be also stores for pork, peas, and other ship provisions, all
in very good order, and carefully looked unto.

Whitelocke went on board divers of the ships, taking notice of their strength and furniture,
and among them he went on board several great ships which Wrangel had taken in fight from the
King of Denmark, which at present were not serviceable; but his commendation of that action,
and of these ships of war lying here, was due to them, and not unpleasing to those who showed
them to him. They returned by boat, making the tour of the island; and as they passed by the
ships of war, they all saluted Whitelocke with two guns apiece, which number they do not exceed.
As they passed along, Whitelocke was desired to go on board the 'Hercules,' a great and good
ship lying there, which carried eighty pieces of ordnance, all brass; and being brought into
the captain's cabin, he found there the table covered, and a banquet set upon it of sweetmeats
of divers sorts, with which, and with plenty of excellent Rhenish wine, they did with great
respect and civility entertain Whitelocke and his company. From thence they brought him to
his lodging, weary enough with his voyage and the extreme heat of the weather.

[SN: Position of Stockholm.]

The island which Whitelocke viewed this day, and many other greater and smaller islands, upon
which are buildings, do make up this city, which by some is resembled for the situation of
it unto the city of Venice, which stands as this doth, upon several islands in the sea. The
waters are great and deep about this city, which is compassed with mountains, except only where
they give way to the passage of the waters. The town, in the prospect of it, seems to be as
in the midst of the circuit of the mountains, and as it were composed of divers pieces, each
of them apart making a good town, and so appear as several villages separated by the many arms
of water, or by the Lake Mälaren, which come hither to meet one another, and make the large
and deep water; and it seems to be the diameter of the mountains, and now all plain, by carrying
away the earth of a hill within it, and the stones therewith filling up ditches and uneven
grounds, and serving for foundations for their buildings, and to make their streets even and
handsome; so that now it is all level, as if no hill had ever been. One of their authors saith
that it is "loco et situ commodissimo, inter eximium dulcem lacum Mæler ipsumque Balticum mare
in insula fundatum."

The inhabitants (who should best know it) affirm that the situation of this town is very healthful,
and that notwithstanding the vast quantity of waters that do surround it, yet they are not
troubled with agues, or other diseases, so much as other parts of the country. It is too, in
the view of it, pleasant and noble for the situation; and the grounds about it are dry and
wholesome, yet fruitful. The streets are some of them large, others more narrow; most of them
are straight, the houses being equally advanced and set together. In the heart of the city
they are for the most part built of stone or brick, making the fairer show by their height
of four or five stories. From the North Holm or suburbs to the east is a bridge of wood, very
long; from the island where the ships lie they pass another bridge to another island, both
small ones, and at the mouth of the harbour for the ships of war, extending about half a league,
between which and the continent are the waters of the lake and of the rivers which pass through
the town from the west; from the north to the east is a park of deer, pleasant with trees and
shade, contributing to the delight and health of the inhabitants; and, taken altogether, from
the prospect of the mountains upon the churches, castle, houses, waters, and ships, the town
appears noble and beautiful.

[SN: Legend of Stockholm.]

Whitelocke having been at the island where the ships lie, and observed it to be called the
Holm, and other islands to have the same name of Holm, and Holm to be the same which we call
an island, and this city named Stockholm, caused his inquiry of the original of this name of
Stockholm; he was informed, in a kind of pleasant story, which is not without some probability,
and the earnest affirmations of the inhabitants, who from tradition may be supposed best to
know it, that the original of the name Stockholm was thus:--That there was a certain great
and rich town called Bieurkoo, situate upon the lake between Upsal and this place, whereof
some ruins are yet to be seen. The number of the people in that town increasing so much that
the inhabitants could not be therein contained, they held a council what was fit to be done;
they also consulted their idol gods, to whom they offered sacrifices and prayers for their
direction. The issue was this: they came to a resolution that part of their people should go
forth from them, as a colony, to seek for a new habitation, as is usual in these northern countries;
that they should find out a place, and build them a new city to dwell in; and how to find out
and agree upon this place was thus determined: they took a great block or piece of wood, to
which they fastened some gold, and set the block a-swimming in the water, and agreed that there
they would build the new town where their gods (to whom they had committed this affair) should
cause the block to stay; this block floated, and, descending down the lake, at length staid
at a little island about the midst of this city.

Such an island here (as in our north parts) is called Holm, and such a great block or piece
of wood is by them (as with us) called a stock; and because this stock staid at this Holm,
therefore here they built their city, and called it Stockholm; which, by degrees, and adding
one holm or island to another, became of its present greatness.

May 23, 1654.

[SN: The Magistrates of Stockholm address Whitelocke.]

Berkman brought to Whitelocke's lodging this morning two of the magistrates of this city, deputed
by their body, and in their name, to salute Whitelocke and bid him welcome to this place. One
of them made a speech to Whitelocke, which was interpreted out of the Swedish by Berkman into
French, to this effect:--

    "My Lord Ambassador,

    "The Senate of this city have deputed us in their name to salute
    your Excellence, and to bid you welcome to this place, where the
    magistrates and citizens are desirous to embrace any occasion
    presented to them, whereby they may testify the great respect and
    honour which they bear to his most Serene Highness the Lord
    Protector, and to the Commonwealth of England.

    "They are likewise very glad of the occasion given them to express
    their joy for the happy alliance and friendship concluded between
    this kingdom and the Commonwealth of England, which we hope will be
    to the advantage and good of both nations, and of the Protestant
    interest, which is heartily wished by us. We look upon it as a very
    great comfort and blessing to this city, that after the misery in
    which we have lately been, when it pleased God to visit us with the
    pestilence, that the same is now so well and fully removed through
    Divine mercy, that we have the happiness to see a person of your
    condition vouchsafe his presence with us.

    "Whilst the occasions of your Excellence shall stay you here, we
    most freely offer our services for your accommodation with
    whatsoever this place will afford, which your Excellence may
    command; and as a small testimony of the respects of our superiors,
    they have caused us to present a vessel of wine unto your
    Excellence, whereof they entreat your favourable acceptance."

Whitelocke presently answered them in English, which Berkman interpreted to them in Swedish,
to this effect:--

    "Gentlemen,

    "I rejoice with you in the mercy and goodness of God to this city,
    who hath caused to cease that contagious disease which lately raged
    among you, so that your friends (of which number I take the honour
    to reckon myself) may freely and safely resort to you, and converse
    with you as formerly. I have also some share in your joy for the
    friendship and alliance contracted between my Lord the Protector of
    the Commonwealth of England, and the Queen and kingdom of Sweden;
    wherein I doubt not but, through the blessing of God, both nations
    and the whole Protestant interest will have cause to rejoice
    likewise: and as my poor endeavours have not been wanting, so my
    hearty prayers to God shall be put up that it may come to this
    issue; and I shall pray for the continuance of health and prosperity
    to this noble city.

    "I return you many thanks for your respects to my Lord the Protector
    and the Commonwealth whom I serve, whereof I shall not fail (when it
    shall please God to give me a return to my own country) to acquaint
    them, and to do all offices of respect in my power for your city;
    and I desire my thanks may be presented to your honourable Senate
    for their particular favour to me, and for their salutation, which I
    receive with all gratitude."

Whilst the citizens were with Whitelocke, Wrangel, Vice-Admiral Thysen, Vice-Admiral Clerke,
Sinclair, captain of the 'Amarantha,' and others, came and did Whitelocke the honour to dine
with him, and in the afternoon carried him to see the cannon which the Swedes had taken from
their enemies, now laid up in a magazine for themselves; there were of them brass cannon 1100;
among them were two pieces taken from the Muscovites, each of them weighing 18,000 lbs. weight,
and carrying a bullet of 96 lbs. weight, as much more as the greatest whole cannon carries.
There was also a basilisk of nineteen feet in length, very extraordinary, and a great mortar-piece
of brass of a fathom and three fingers in diameter at the mouth of it; with many other pieces
of brass ordnance taken from the Poles in their wars with them, which were now but of little
use; nor were those huge pieces capable to be drawn into the field for any service there.

May 24, 1654.

[SN: Monuments and public buildings of Stockholm.]

Whitelocke walked abroad, to see the great church where the late King Gustavus Adolphus lies
interred; but as yet there is no monument erected to his memory, nor are there others of magnificence
or much antiquity in this or in the other great church, but store of images and crucifixes
in all their churches; their building is of brick, and all their churches are covered with copper.

Whitelocke went to Wrangel's lodging to requite his visits, but found him not at home, not
having sent beforehand to him. He fetched a little turn in the city, and they showed him a
new building for the Ricksdag, which they call the Ruder-house, that is, the house of the Knights;
it is a fair building, and the name of it remembers somewhat of the knights of our Parliament.

In this walk, Whitelocke viewed in the fair street near his lodging the monument set up to
the honour of Queen Christina at her coronation, which is beautiful to the view. It is a triumphant
arch, of the height of the highest houses, raised upon three arches, which give three passages;
those on each side the more strait and low, the middle arch of twice the height and wideness
of the other two. The frontispiece unto the tops of the arches is adorned with pillars of a
fair work, between which, in the front of the building, are figured the wars, battles, and
victories of Gustavus the Great: above the pillars are divers images, and above the middle
of the porch is a large tablet, containing in letters of gold the original of Christina, her
virtues, and the occasion of this monument. The whole building seems fair and stately, and
as of stone, but in truth is only wood plastered over; rather a show, to please for a few years,
than lasting. He also viewed many houses of stone and brick, some whereof were very fair and
adorned with towers and figures, as those of Grave Magnus de la Gardie, Grave Gustavus Horne,
General Bannier, and others, and many of them beautifully covered with copper.

In the afternoon Wrangel conducted Whitelocke to see the castle, which is also covered with
copper; and that having lain there long, some Dutchmen are reported to have offered to give
£10,000 for the copper, and to cover the castle again with new copper; the reason whereof they
hold to be, because the copper which hath lain there so long with the sun upon it, is so refined
thereby, and would yield so much gold, that it will yield what the Dutchmen bid for it and
more, besides the charge of new covering it with copper as before.

This castle is the principal house in this principal city, belonging to the crown of Sweden;
it is a large castle, more for conveniency of a Court than for stateliness of structure. It
is almost four-square, one way longer than the other, all of brick, plastered over to make
it seem as if it were of freestone, whereof there is not much in these parts fit for building;
the entry into the castle is upon the north quarter; the south and east side is of fair building,
four stories high, the windows not large. On the west of the quadrangle is the chapel, about
a hundred and thirty feet in length, with the breadth proportionable; it is divided into three
arches, upon two ranges of pillars of marble of this country, of divers colours, most in red
streaks, handsome and polished. On the windows and walls are several pictures and images, after
the manner of the Lutheran churches. The rooms in the castle are many, some of them large enough
for the state of a Court, and most of those are two stories high, after the use of this country.
The situation of the castle is pleasant and noble, by the side of the great water, upon which
part of it is built, and the other part upon the island where it stands; and though of itself
it be not of great strength, yet the situation, prospect of the waters, ships, vessels, islands,
and buildings, on the one side, and of the country to the mountains on the other side, give
it the repute of a princely palace.

In the castle Whitelocke was carried up to a room, a magazine, where were a very great number
of muskets, pikes, swords, and other foot arms, excellent good, made in this country, of their
own iron and steel, and kept exceeding clean, bright, and well fixed, and were said to be sufficient
to arm ten thousand men completely. On the other side of the court they brought him to another
room, where was a magazine of horse-arms, cuirassiers, with pistols, bright, well kept, and
of an excellent make; there were also more foot-arms: in all, in this magazine, two thousand
horse-arms, and five thousand foot-arms; and in the other magazine, ten thousand foot-arms.
There were likewise colours, ensigns, and standards, taken from their enemies, to the number
of about eight hundred; among them one taken by King Gustavus in person, and another, which
Wrangel showed, that he had taken from the Duke of Saxony.

This city is doubtless as well provided of arms and all sorts of ammunition for war as any
place in these parts of Europe, here being, besides the Queen's stores in the public Arsenal,
arms sufficient for fifty thousand men.

Here also they showed to Whitelocke the lance of the quintain, and, according to their description
of it and its use, it seems to be the same with the exercise and recreation used anciently
in England, and yet retained in some counties at their marriages, which they likewise call
the running at the quintain. In a great hall they showed to Whitelocke the skin, stuffed out
and standing in the full proportion, of the horse which the late King Gustavus rode when he
was slain; also his bloody shirt which he then wore, which is carefully preserved in a chest;
where they also keep the jewel which King Gustavus wore at his coronation, and many rich swords,
battle-axes, and other spoils taken from their enemies.

May 25, 1654.

[SN: The launch of the 'Falcon.']

Wrangel came to Whitelocke, and invited him to see the launching of one of their ships newly
built for a man-of-war; and Whitelocke was the more curious to see the manner of it, and how
they could do it, in regard they have no docks, nor ebbing and flowing of the water, which
here is constantly even, and affords no advantage by flowing tides for the launching of their
ships.

When Whitelocke came to the holm where the ship was to be launched, he found her with the keel
set upon great planks of timber, the ship tied upright with cables, as if she were swimming;
the planks upon which she stood lay shelving towards the water, and were all thick daubed with
grease all along from the poop of the ship, and under her keel, to the water's side, which
was within the ship's length of her head, and there the water was very deep. One strong cable
held the ship from moving; and she lying thus shelving upon the planks, the cable which held
her from sliding down was cut, and then the weight of the ship upon the sloping greased planks
carried her with great violence down upon the planks into the sea, near a slight shoot, by
force of the weight and swing wherewith she fell down. In the sea were boats ready, which came
to her, and put men aboard her; and as she went off, a great shout of a multitude of people,
standing by as spectators, was sent after her.

Wrangel, as an honour and compliment to Whitelocke, desired him to give the name to this ship.
Whitelocke would have called her the 'Wrangel,' but the master of that name entreated it might
not be so, possibly to avoid the envy of it at Court; but he desired it might be called the
'Whitelocke,' which Whitelocke thought not expedient, lest it might argue too much height in
himself; nor would he call her 'Cromwell,' or the 'Protector,' because she carried but thirty
guns; but seeing the mark of her guns to be the falcon, and asking whether they had any other
ship of that name, they said, No; whereupon, the falcon being Whitelocke's coat of arms and
the mark of the ship's guns, and she being built swifter of sail than ordinary, Whitelocke
gave her the name of the 'Falcon.' This pleased Wrangel very much, and the seamen and workmen
were most pleased with the gratuity which Whitelocke bestowed on them; and this ceremony and
compliments being passed, Whitelocke gave many thanks to Wrangel for this honour, and so they
parted.

The packet from England was brought to Whitelocke. Thurloe wrote thus:--

    "I have acquainted his Highness with your Excellence's letters
    received yesterday, wherein he takes little content, more than that
    he did on his part sincerely intend a peace and union with that
    Crown and Kingdom, and committed the management of it to a person
    who hath performed his trust with honour, wisdom, and fidelity. We
    hope that your instructions, giving you liberty to return, are by
    this time arrived, etc."

By this packet Whitelocke also received letters from his wife, full of affection and piety,
and from Colonel Bulstrode, his brother Wilson, Mr. Attorney Hall, Mr. Cokaine, Mr. Eltonhead,
especially from his great friend Dr. Winston; and all of these letters, and several others
which he received, were so many testimonies of the affection and hearty kindness of these his
worthy friends.

May 26, 1654.

After Whitelocke had walked a tour in the Norden Mallum,--that is, the north suburbs of this
city,--Sir George Fleetwood came to him, with whom he had much conversation in the latter time
of his being in Sweden, both at Upsal and in this town, who showed much kindness and respect
to Whitelocke. He informed Whitelocke that by letters from Upsal he understood that the Ricksdag
had given leave to the Queen to go to Colmar, which signified that she could not go without
their leave, and that she would find much difference between commanding as a Queen and obeying
as a subject, and that, by the law of this kingdom, no Queen can depart out of it without leave
of the Ricksdag, on forfeiture of all her estate.

[SN: Whitelocke's shipment of copper sent to London.]

A ship called the 'Swart Hundt' was by the Queen's command appointed and
fitted to carry Whitelocke's copper and other goods from hence to
England. By advice of friends, Whitelocke under his hand and seal desired
Sir George Fleetwood to consign the copper to Whitelocke's
brother-in-law, Mr. Wilson. Dated at Stockholm, in
    Sweden, the 26th day of May, 1654.

                                                  "B. WHITELOCKE."

According to which warrant, the copper was put on board the 'Swart Hundt,' fitted and victualled
for England. Of Whitelocke's ship, Whitelocke gave the command and charge, and of his goods
therein, to one of his servants, Taylor, by commission under his hand and seal, and to bring
his copper and goods in her from hence to London, as soon as he could, wind and weather favouring.
Wrangel procured this ship for Whitelocke, and a pass from the Admiralty of Sweden for her
to go through the Sound; and Whitelocke thought it better to see this ship on her voyage, than
to leave the sending of her away to the care of others after his departure.

[SN: His goods embarked in the Amarantha.]

Whitelocke sent the rest of his goods and baggage on board the 'Amarantha,' which weighed yesterday,
and he hoped might by this time be within four leagues of the Dollars; but the wind came contrary
for her advance any further, and Whitelocke must continue here till he could understand that
his ship was gotten to the Dollars, which is fourteen Swedish leagues from this city, but may
be gone in six or seven hours by boats in a shorter passage. His stay here seemed tedious to
Whitelocke. This day the wind coming about a little towards the east, increased his hopes of
getting away, for which they were in daily expectation.

[SN: The trade of Stockholm.]

By some merchants and others of this city, Whitelocke learned what was the commerce of this
town, and by his own view he found it to be commodiously seated for trade and to receive all
the commodities of the country's growth, which are brought hither by water; and it is the more
convenient because the greatest ships may come up to the very houses and there load and unload
their merchandises, never wanting water, which there is always deep, and equal in the height
of it. But this city is somewhat far distant from the sea by water, so that before the ships
can go between the sea and the town, they must fetch a compass of about one hundred English
miles, with the danger of many rocks and islands in the way; and they must have also divers
winds which are hindrances to their commerce.

The present Queen hath been curious to invite hither and to entertain many good artists, yet
everything here is very dear, except the native commodities; and now Gothenburg, growing up
in trade, being situate without the Sound, a more open and easy place for access of strangers,--some
believe that by the growth of that, this port may be diminished. It is the better supported
by the Court being commonly kept here, and consequently being the residence of the principal
nobility and officers. Some courts of justice constantly, and the Ricksdag generally, being
held in this city, increase the trade of it; and this being a good road for ships to defend
them from injuries of weather or other dangers, makes it the more frequented.

Plenty of provisions are brought to this town for the supply of it; and most of their native
commodities, as copper, iron, pitch, tar, deal, masts, and the rest, are brought hither and
here shipped and transported into foreign parts; from whence their merchants and strangers
do bring to this northern market all manner of merchandise here vendible; and from hence again
they are vended to all the northern and eastern parts of this country, whereby their trade
and wealth is also increased, so that one of their authors calls it, "Celeberrimum ac nobilissimum
Septentrionis emporium." The trade of this place hath brought and settled here as inhabitants,--besides
Swedes, Goths, Fins, and Laplanders,--divers of Germans, of Pomerland, Mecklenburg, Westphalia,
etc.; also English, Scotch, French, Dutch, and almost of every country of Europe. Some are
here now become citizens, and are treated with justice and civility by the natives, to the
end that they and others may be the more encouraged to add to the riches, strength, and trade
of this place.

May 27, 1654.

[SN: Detained by contrary winds.]

Whitelocke visited Sir George Fleetwood at his lodging in Stockholm, and finding with him Vice-Admiral
Thysen and Peterson, both Hollanders and in service of the Crown, Whitelocke brought them all
home with him to dinner, and advised with them about his voyage. The wind came more contrary
to Whitelocke this day than yesterday, but he knew no other way but a patient submission to
the will and time of God. Here he bestowed on a German clock sixty-two rix-dollars.

[SN: The government of Stockholm.]

From some of the magistrates and others of this city Whitelocke learned that the government
thereof is by four Councils, and a Senate of the citizens, as their Common Council, consisting
of twenty-four chosen yearly in this month by suffrage of the inhabitants, and justice is administered
to the people by them in like manner as in other cities. Besides these officers there is a
Castellan, or governor of the castle of Stockholm, who, by a peculiar authority over the city,
takes care of the walls and buildings thereof, as he doth of the castle and other the King's
buildings there. He is to defend the privileges of the town, and is chief in their political
administration. He also orders and keeps up the revenue and trade, and suffers not the royalties
of the Crown to be diminished, nor any of the public treasure, without the license of the King,
to be expended. He is always one of the Ricks-Senators, and hath joined to him a Vice-Castellan,
of the equestrian order, who is chief in the judgements of the city within the Senate and Councils,
and is intent to the execution of justice.

[SN: The defence of Stockholm.]

The strength of this city is chiefly in the situation of it among the waters, which are no
small defence, and in the bodies of their inhabitants, who make a considerable number of the
soldiery, many of whom have been in foreign service. The Castellan commandeth them, sees their
musters, and that they be provided with arms and in a posture of defence; and under the Castellan
is a captain, who hath the military charge next under him. The main body of the town hath somewhat
of a wall about it, but the suburbs and other islands are encircled with the waters, with bridges
for communication.

The castle is of indifferent strength, and notably provided of arms and ammunition, as is before
remembered, which adds to the strength and safety as well as command of the city. They have
not a formed garrison in the town; but divers companies of the King's guards, when the Court
is there, and sometimes of other regiments of the army, are quartered there, as occasions do
require. The castle commands a good part of the town, and may be as a citadel upon any emergent
business; and in case of any troubles at sea, the ships of war lie here in readiness forthwith
to be manned, are provided with ammunition, provisions, and all things necessary for the defence
and safeguard of this port and city from any attempts which may by sea be made against it.

Whitelocke made up his despatches for England, and now dated his second letters from Stockholm,
attending for a wind.

May 28, 1654.

The Lord's Day.--Whitelocke, according to his custom, had a good sermon in his lodging preached
by one of his chaplains in the morning, and another good sermon preached there in the afternoon
by Mr. Biger, a Scotch minister, and chaplain to Sir George Fleetwood, then with him. In this
city Whitelocke observed the inhabitants very orderly to frequent their parish churches, and
not so much profanation of this day in this place as he had seen at Upsal, and other places
in the country.

May 29, 1654.

[SN: Sir G. Fleetwood returns to the King's coronation at Upsal.]

Whitelocke with longing desires attended the coming about of the wind for his voyage; but he
must stay God's time, which is always best. He could not persuade Sir George Fleetwood to stay
longer with him. He thought it necessary for him to go to Upsal, to be present at the King's
coronation; and at his request Whitelocke sent by him to Wrangel this letter:--

    "A son Excellence le Feld-Maréchal Wrangel à Upsale.

    "Monsieur,

    "Je n'ai pu retenir plus longtemps le Général Major Fleetwood avec
    moi, son désir le portait si fort de se trouver à Upsale, au
    couronnement, de crainte qu'il ne semblerait négligent, et manquer à
    son devoir envers son Altesse Royale; mais la raison de ce qu'il a
    présenté ma requête à votre Excellence est qu'il vous plaise
    moyenner envers son Altesse Royale, afin qu'il retourne à Stockholm;
    et que je puisse jouir de sa compagnie jusqu'à mon départ, qui en
    apparence sera différé plus longtemps que je ne le souhaiterais, à
    raison de la contrariété des vents.

    "Je supplie votre Excellence de me faire la faveur de baiser en mon
    nom les mains de sa Majesté et de son Altesse Royale, et d'accepter,
    pour tant de faveurs que votre Excellence m'a faites, tant à Upsale
    qu'en ce lieu, les actions de grâce de celui qui est,

                  "Monsieur, à votre Excellence
                                    "Très-humble serviteur,
                                                  "B. WHITELOCKE.
    "Stockholm, May 29, 1654."

Berkman went from hence 17th May at night, and returned this morning hither, and brought to
Whitelocke this letter:--

[SN: Lagerfeldt's letter on the Swedish prizes.]

    "Illustrissimo Domino Domino Bulstrode Whitelocke, Extraordinario
    Reipublicæ Angliæ in Sueciam Legato, officiocissimè.

    "Illustrissime et Excellentissime Domine Legate,

    "Quanquam valde dubitem, an Excellentiam vestram hæ litteræ in
    Sueciam inveniant, nolui tamen, accepta hac occasione, vel meo
    officio deesse, vel refragari quorundam Suecorum petitioni, nam cum
    naves duæ Suecicæ, quarum naucleri Bonders et Sibrand follis
    vocantur, nuper ceptæ et in Angliam delatæ sint, sperant fore, ut,
    per hanc meam intercessionem, cum primis autem per benevolam
    Excellentiæ vestræ commendationem, quantocius dimittantur. Nisi
    igitur mihi satis perspecta esset Excellentiæ vestræ integritas,
    pluribus ab ea contenderem, ut dictarum aliarumque detentarum in
    Anglia Suecicarum navium liberationem, atque per se æquam ac
    amicitiæ foederique mutuo conformem sibi haberet commendatam;
    sufficit nunc saltem indicâsse Excellentiæ vestræ, quippe cui nihil
    jucundius esse scio, quam ut amicæ confoederatæque gentes, sancta
    fidei justitiæque observantia, inter se strictius colligentur. De
    cætero Excellentiæ vestræ felicem in patriam reditum exopto, ut me
    nostrumque Barkmannum officiose commendo. Dabam Upsaliæ, 27 Maii,
    anno 1654.

                  "Excellentiæ vestræ
                               "Ad quævis officia paratissimus,
                                              "ISRAEL LAGERFELDT."

In the evening Whitelocke walked abroad to take the air, the time of his stay here being very
tedious to him, attending for a good wind, that he might proceed in his longed-for return to
his native country and relations; but he submitted to the good pleasure of God, who orders
all times and seasons and all things for the best. At night the wind came about a little towards
the east, favouring his voyage.

May 30, 1654.

[SN: Preparations for departure.]

The wind continued this morning, as it was last night, easterly, but not sufficing for Whitelocke
to go on his voyage. The Vice-Admiral Clerke coming to Whitelocke, he advised with him touching
his voyage, and asked him if he thought the 'Amarantha' might with this wind be gotten to the
Dollars. He answered that there could be no assurance thereof, but that possibly it might be
so; whereupon Whitelocke replied, that he had a great desire to go down himself to the Dollars,
before the news came of the 'Amarantha's' arrival there, because the wind might come good,
and within six hours carry them out to the open sea, which, if neglected, might retard their
voyage fifteen days or more. Clerke said that if Whitelocke desired to do so, that he would
not advise him to the contrary, but he believed that this might expedite his voyage; only he
said that Whitelocke must be content to lie on board the ship till the wind should come fair,
because there was no accommodation to be had for him and his company at the Dollars. Whitelocke
said he should be well contented to lie on ship-board, and prayed Clerke to cause boats to
be provided for his passage to the Dollars the next day, and ordered his officers and servants
to prepare all things in readiness for his departure accordingly. Wrangel came back this night
from Upsal, and several other persons, though very late, having staid the solemnity of the
Queen's resignation and the coronation of the new King, which they related to Whitelocke to
be done this day, and in this manner and solemnity.

[SN: Relation of the ceremony of the Queen's resignation.]

About nine o'clock this morning the Queen, being attired in her royal apparel and robes of
purple velvet, with her crown upon her head, and attended by all her officers and servants,
came into the room prepared for that occasion, where was set a table with a rich carpet, and
five great cushions laid upon it. Most of the grandees and officers were present.

Upon one of the cushions was laid the sword of state; upon the second cushion was laid the
sceptre; upon the third cushion was laid the ball; and upon the fourth cushion were laid the keys.

The Queen being come into the room, after a little pause made a short speech to the company,
to this effect:--

    "My Lords and Gentlemen,

    "You have before this time been acquainted with my resolution to
    resign the crown and government of this kingdom into the hands of my
    most dear cousin the Prince, here present with me, upon my earnest
    request to the Ricksdag, now convened. After long debates and much
    solicitation to dissuade me from it, yet at length, though
    unwillingly, they have assented to this my resolution; and I am now
    come to put the same in execution before all these honourable
    witnesses here present; and to you, my most dear cousin, I do
    heartily wish all happiness and good success in the management of
    the public affairs of this kingdom."

Having thus spoken, the Queen desired that some of them would take the crown from off her head,
but none would do it; she then called to Grave Tott and the Baron Steinberg, expressly commanding
them to do it, but they refused, till again earnestly commanded by her; they then took the
crown from off her Majesty's head, and laid it down upon the fifth cushion on the table. After
that was done, some others, by her command, took off the royal robes with which she was clothed
and laid them down upon the table. Then the Queen, having thus divested herself of these ensigns
of royalty and resigned her crown, being now in her private habit, made courtesy to the Prince
and to the rest of the company, and retired into her own chamber,--an act of a strange constancy
and fixedness of resolution, going through with this great work of her own abdication without
the least outward show of reluctancy for what she had done, but with the same behaviour and
confidence as at all other times in her particular and private affairs.[314]

For this act of the Queen's resignation they had no precedent; for the solemnity of the King's
coronation they had many; and the same is at large, with all the circumstances and ceremonies
thereof, set down by one of their authors, Wexionius (Epit. Descriptionis Sueciæ, lib. v. c.
6), from which the ceremonies of this Coronation were not much different, and thus shortly
related unto Whitelocke.

[SN: Ceremony of the King's coronation.]

After the Queen was withdrawn to her private chamber, the Ricks-officers and senators humbly
desired the Prince that he would be pleased to walk to the Cathedral Church, where the Archbishop
and other prelates were ready to attend his Royal Highness, and to perform the solemnities
of his coronation. The whole company went thither in this order. The officers and servants
of the Court went first in a very great number, together with many officers of the army and
other gentlemen. After them came the nobility, the gentlemen, barons, and earls, members of
the Ricksdag; then followed the Ricks-Senators, two and two, in rank. After them came the five
Ricks-officers: first, the Ricks-Schatzmaster, or High Treasurer, who carried the keys; next
to him, the Ricks-Chancellor, who carried the globe; after him came the Ricks-Admiral, who
carried the sceptre; then one in the place of the Feldherr, or General, who carried the sword;
and lastly the Ricks-Droitset, or Chief Justice, who carried the crown. After the Chief Justice
came the King himself, in his ordinary habit, with a huge troop following him, and the windows
and streets crowded with multitudes of people. The guards and soldiers stood in their arms
as the company passed by.

Being thus come to the Cathedral, at the door stood the Archbishop with a horn of oil in his
hand, accompanied with other bishops, superintendents, and many clergymen. He received the
Prince at the church door, and conducted him up to the high altar, where they had prayers,
and then the Archbishop anointed the Prince with the oil. They put upon him the royal apparel,
put the crown upon his head, the sceptre in his right hand, and the ball into his left hand,
and so he was invested into the royal dignity, and declared, with all his titles, King of Swedes,
Goths, and Vandals, etc.; drums, trumpets, and loud acclamations of the people adding to the
proclaiming of their new King. Not many days past they laboured to hinder the doing of it;
now they shout for joy that it is done. Thus are the minds and practice of the multitude, whom
nothing pleaseth long,--nothing more than novelty.

The ceremonies being performed at the Cathedral, the new King, with all his new subjects and
servants, returned from thence into the castle in the same order as he came hither. By the
way he was saluted with the loud acclamations of the people, "God save the King!" Thus coming
to his Court as he entered it, the abdicated Queen looks out of her window, and with a cheerful
countenance and voice heard by the company she wished her cousin joy of his crown and government.
The King retires for a while to his private chamber, then is called forth to a sumptuous feast,
where most of the nobility and senators did attend upon him and rejoice with him, and afterwards
did swear fealty, homage, and allegiance to him.

But this relation was not so pleasing to Whitelocke as the thoughts of his departure from this
place, and his longing to proceed in his voyage homewards.

May 31, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke takes boat and leaves the shore;]

The 'Swart Hundt' set sail this morning with Whitelocke's goods and copper, Taylor commanding
her, and Swedes mariners in her; the wind was come about indifferent good, for his and for
his master's voyage. Wrangel and Clerke affording Whitelocke their company at dinner, he advised
with them what time of the day would be best for him to go from hence. Clerke said that the
boats would be ready after dinner to transport him from hence to the Dollars, whither he hoped
that by this time the 'Amarantha' might be come. He and Wrangel advised Whitelocke not to go
on board the boats till six or seven o'clock in the evening, to avoid the heat of the day,
and to enjoy the benefit of the cool of the night, which was better to be endured than the
extremity of the heat of the day, especially upon the water; and the heat some affirmed to
be at this time as violent in this country as it is in Spain or Italy. Whitelocke found it
now as much hotter than England as it is colder in the winter.

About seven o'clock in the evening Whitelocke left his lodging, where they made him pay as
an Ambassador Extraordinary. For the use of the house, only for eleven days, they made him
pay a hundred and sixty rix-dollars; for his victuals, but one meal a day, without any dainties,
they exacted above a thousand rix-dollars. Such is their unconscionable exaction upon strangers.
It was time to leave them, and Whitelocke being called by Wrangel and Clerke, he went to prayers
with his company, recommending themselves to the protection and blessing of God; and presently
after prayers he and all his people went to the water-side, multitudes by the way saluting
him with respect as he passed by, and crowding to see him take boat.

He went into a galley of the Queen's attending for him. Most of his gentlemen and Clerke were
with him in the galley; the rest of his company went in a great boat provided for them. This
galley had two masts bearing the Queen's colours in silk. In the hinder part of it was a room
with a table and benches round about it, the table covered with crimson velvet, the benches
with red cloth, and tapestry upon the floor. The room held about ten persons; the outward room
about twelve men, besides the watermen for sixteen oars. At her head she carried two small
pieces of ordnance, which they fired at loosing from the harbour, and the ships of war fired
as they passed by. They went on in a great deep water, sometimes very broad, sometimes more
narrow, on the sides whereof were huge rocks, and here and there little trees growing out of
the clefts of them, with small heaps of earth lying on them, but they increase not much in
that soil.

Many rocks all along on the shores, and islands of rocks, with the smell of the fir-trees on
them, was a variety for strangers; and the water being calm, they made use only of their oars.
The trumpets sounding where the rocks were most uneven and made concavities, gave much delight
by the resounding of seven or eight echoes to one sound. Yet the multitudes of craggy rocks
of vast greatness and huge tallness, with their uneven heads and ragged sides, filling all
the shores and making many islands, and those causing no small danger in the passage, appeared,
especially at first and to the younger seamen, very dreadful and amazing; but after a little
acquaintance with them, and constant being in their company, and the seamen knowing the passage,
caused the less fear, and the sevenfold answering echoes, as if they had been so many trumpets,
gave delight to the hearers, with some admiration of that multiplying sound. But their cheerfulness
was increased by meeting with a boat about two Swedish miles from Stockholm, whose men informed
Whitelocke that the 'Amarantha' was that day come into the Dollars, which good news added hopes
and spirit to the company of advancing in their voyage towards their longed-for country; and
the night seemed the less tedious by discoursing of this providence, that, the same day that
Whitelocke came away, his ship should fall down to be ready to meet him, and not sooner, and
whereof he knew nothing beforehand.

Clerke informed Whitelocke of the places by which they passed, and the condition of the country.
They came into a very narrow way and straits, about a bow-shot in length, where a great vessel
could not pass, both for want of breadth and depth of water, the greater boat with Whitelocke
striking the sands as she passed over. This way was to get into the road and channel for the
ships from Stockholm to the Dollars, which is near twenty Swedish miles for the ships to go
about. From this strait they came again into deep water, environed as before with rocks, and
full of islands.

[SN: and reaches his ship at the Dollars.]

When they were within a mile of the Dollars, the wind came about to east and north-east, very
fair and good to carry them out to sea, whereas before it was flat against them. Hereupon Whitelocke
took occasion, the wind being now good, to order his galley to make way forthright to the 'Amarantha'
without going on shore at all, which was done, although it seemed long at the latter end of
the way, the company weary, and the watermen tired with rowing, though they did not at all
row with that nimbleness and mettle as the English use to do.

When Whitelocke departed from Stockholm the wind was contrary to him; after he was certified
by the boat which he met that the 'Amarantha' was in the Dollars, the wind suddenly changed
and was fair for him, and after this providence they came in good time to the ship, the tedious
passage of the night being over, wherein Whitelocke slept upon the boards and in the open air,--hardship
enough for one of his age and condition, but God was his protection.

FOOTNOTES:

[184] [This entry is evidently a repetition of the conversation reported at length on the 5th
of April. The story here related by M. Woolfeldt is his own.]

[188] "We Christina, by the grace of God Queen of Swedes, Goths, and Vandals, etc., do make
known and testify, that, whereas it is the common and mutual interest of us and our kingdom,
as also of Oliver, Lord Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and
the dominions thereof, our good friend, and of the said Commonwealth, that the ancient friendship
and alliance which hath always been between this kingdom and those nations be conserved and
increased; and especially that the freedom of commerce and navigation do continue straitly
conformed and uninterrupted; and for that cause the foresaid Lord Protector and Commonwealth
have been pleased to send their Extraordinary Ambassador unto us: therefore we have commanded,
and do by these presents, in the best form, command and commit unto the most illustrious our
sincerely faithful and beloved the Lord Axel Oxenstiern, Chancellor and Senator of us and the
kingdom of Sweden, etc., and also to Lord Eric Oxenstiern of Axel, likewise a Senator of us
and of the Kingdom of Sweden, etc., that they do treat, agree, and conclude with the before-named
Ambassador and Plenipotentiary about the making of a league concerning the foresaid matters
and other things thereunto pertaining. Whatsoever therefore our said Plenipotentiary Commissioners
shall act, conclude, and appoint with the before-named Ambassador, we shall hold the same ratified
and confirmed by force of these presents; in witness and strengthening whereof, we have commanded
these presents, subscribed with our hand, to be corroborated with our great seal of the kingdom.
Given in our castle of Upsal, the fourteenth day of March, in the year one thousand six hundred
fifty and four. CHRISTINA."

[193] [No sooner had Cromwell assumed the Protectorate than his foreign policy took a more
definite shape, and was steadily directed to two great objects--peace with Holland, and the
union of the Protestant States. The conclusion of the Dutch peace was however not an easy matter.
Cromwell himself had declared in favour of the daring project of a union of the two Republics,
and the Dutch alliance was hated by many of his stoutest military supporters. Moreover he required
of the Dutch, as a condition sine quâ non, that they should engage never to make the young
Prince of Orange or his descendants their Stadtholder, or to give him the command of their
forces. This was the secret article against which the States General most vehemently protested,
and Cromwell was at length obliged to content himself with an engagement of the province of
Holland to exclude the House of Orange. Even this pretension was strongly opposed by De Witt,
but Cromwell insisted. The public treaty of peace was signed on the 5th of April, 1654; but
it was not until the 5th of June following that the secret article was ratified. In greater
testimony whereof we have commanded these presents, subscribed with our hand, to be confirmed
by our seal. Given in our castle of Upsal, the 3rd day of May, in the year 1654. CHRISTINA."
Therefore, upon some differences moved, I have agreed with the most illustrious and most excellent
Lords, Plenipotentiary Commissioners and Senators of her said Royal Majesty and of Sweden,
the Lord Axel Oxenstiern, Chancellor of the kingdom, etc., and the Lord Eric Oxenstiern, son
of Axel, President of the General College of Trade, etc., in manner as by the following articles
is expressed and explained.

"First, whereas a certain company of English exercising merchandise in Guinea have complained
of one Henry Carelove, who, being Governor of the Swedish Company in that country, did take
away from the English certain places inhabited by them, and did other injuries to them; but
the said Swedish Company not only took upon them to prove that the before-named Governor did
commit no fault, but likewise made complaint of grievances against the officers of the said
English Company; but these particular differences of merchants at this time could not for certain
reasons be wholly determined, and therefore it seemed most counselable to both parties that
in a friendly way, without any indirect courses, they may be composed by certain Commissioners
on both sides. In the meantime it is agreed that the differing hereof shall be to the prejudice
of none of either part, so that neither the fellows or officers of the said companies nor any
subjects or citizens of either State shall offer any injury or molestation to one another in
Guinea, or in the free commerce or travelling there; but, as before is expressed, the determination
of the differences being referred by both sides to the superiors, they may live friendly among
themselves, and treat one another with that goodwill which is consonant to the league concluded
between them. The same also shall be observed in America between the colonies of New Sweden
and of the English, that they do embrace a sincere friendship, and that either party do abstain
from all troubles and injuries to the other, but chiefly that they do endeavour their mutual
preservation until there be a clear agreement before the deputed Commissioners on both sides
about the limits of the colonies, and other rules of friendship that shall be requisite, together
with other affairs of particular persons. Which matters, that they may be enjoined to all and
singular the subjects and citizens of either State, and may be observed by them, I have fully
taken upon me by these presents, by virtue of my commission, and do confirm by subscription
of my hand, and by my seal."

[268] [Whitelocke, in his zeal to exhort the Heir-apparent to the service of God and the observance
of the Lord's Day, appears to have appreciated very imperfectly the extraordinary character
and the political capacity of the Prince who paid him so signal a mark of deference. Yet in
the romantic and chivalrous annals of the House of Vasa, scarcely any reign is more remarkable
than that of the sovereign to whom Christina ceded the throne. In the course of the ensuing
five years Charles Gustavus, at the head of a chosen band of Swedish veterans, conquered Prussia,
and compelled the Great Elector to acknowledge himself to be a Swedish vassal; invaded Poland,
and commenced the partition of that republic; allied himself to Rakoczy, to the terror of the
House of Austria, and attacked Denmark with such success that he crossed the Little Belt on
the ice and laid siege to Copenhagen, which was only saved by the mediation of the Maritime
Powers. Such was the splendid career of Charles Gustavus between the period of his accession
to the throne and the year 1660, when he died, not having completed his thirty-eighth year.
More than any of his predecessors or of his successors on the Swedish throne, he may be said
to have held the Empire of the North; and the favour here shown to Whitelocke indicates the
importance attached by the Swedish Prince to secure at least the goodwill of Cromwell during
the prosecution of these Extraordinary enterprises.]

[283] [Oxenstiern died about three months afterwards.]

[314] [It would be idle to speculate on the political motives which may have combined with
other reasons to induce Christina of Sweden to conceive and execute this extraordinary design.
Other sovereigns have abdicated from the lassitude of age or the burden of unpopularity, or
the desire of ensuring the succession to their offspring; but the resignation of a Queen in
her twenty-ninth year, surrounded by able ministers and a loyal people, and who had reigned
with splendour and success, is an event without a parallel in history. The explanation of it
is to be found in the eccentricity, the levity, the feverish curiosity, and the indomitable
love of independence and singularity which are to be traced in every part of the Queen's character.
She was a woman of powerful but ill-regulated mind, capable at one time of sharing in the speculations
of Descartes or of applauding the exhortations of Whitelocke,--at another, of bowing to the
spiritual bondage of Rome, and even of committing the brutal murder of Monaldeschi. The character
of Cromwell pleased her by its adventurous exploits and its arbitrary tendency, and her reception
of the English Embassy was as much the result of personal predilection as of policy. Whitelocke
amused her by his somewhat pedantic erudition, and flattered her vanity, but he seems scarcely
to have divined the extraordinary variations of her character.]

JUNE.

June 1, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke embarks in the Amarantha, and sails.]

Having been part of yesterday and all the last night upon the water, this morning, about seven
o'clock, Whitelocke and all his company came to the Dollars, and, without setting foot on shore,
they went on board the ship 'Amarantha,' lying there to expect them. And although this was
not usual, but passengers generally stay some time at this place till their ships be ready,
and to make provisions for their voyage, and spend some money at the cabaret here; yet Whitelocke
seeing the wind fair, and having all his company together in the boats, was unwilling to let
them be scattered by going on shore, which might be troublesome and retard his voyage by getting
them all together again. For these reasons he commanded all his people to go forthwith aboard
the ship, as he himself did, at which Vice-Admiral Clerke wondered, and said he had not seen
the same done before.

This ship, the 'Amarantha,' had never yet been at sea, and therefore the more dangerous to
adventure in her first voyage; but she was well built, a fair ship, of a good burden, and had
mounted in her forty pieces of brass cannon, two of them demy cannon, and she was well manned
and of good force and strength for war; she was a good sailer, and would turn and tack about
well; she held a hundred persons of Whitelocke's followers and most of his baggage, besides
her own mariners, about two hundred. The cabins wherein Whitelocke was were of a handsome make;
the breadth of the ship was the length of his bed-cabin, and it was six or seven paces broad,
and high enough for the tallest man; it was hung with red cloth, the furniture of the bed was
rich cloth of gold and silver; on the table was a rich carpet, and all over it a canopy with
broad fringes of silk and gold and silver. Within the bed-cabin was another room for him to
retire into, with a table and benches covered with red cloth. All the gentlemen had accommodations
as the ship could afford.

Being all settled in the ship, they were fain to stay for the ship-boat which the captain had
sent for water; and as soon as it was returned, about ten o'clock in the morning, they weighed
anchor and put the ship under sail, recommending themselves to the mercy and protection of
Him who rules upon the waters as well as on dry land, and of whose goodness they had so great
experience. They sailed by the place called the Scares, that is, the isles of rocks, which
are there in the water and on both sides of the shore, of a strange cragginess, largeness,
and number; those in the sea are full of danger, and often afford but a very strait passage
for the ships to go between them, and no other course is to avoid them. From hence the sea
begins to widen herself towards the furthest point of land, which they call the Lands-Ort,
answerable to our English point of land called the Land's End in Cornwall. The Lands-Ort is
eight Swedish leagues from the Dollars, and hither they reached by the evening, the wind being
east and south-east all this day.

June 2, 1654.

[SN: The voyage.]

About eleven o'clock the last night the wind came about more to the south, yet Whitelocke advanced
in his course and gained some way, but not much, the wind being almost against him; and so
it continued in this morning, when there appeared a chain of rocks advancing themselves more
than a Swedish mile into the sea, and not far from the isle of Oeland, to which rocks it is
not good to approach too near. They could not maintain their course but to very small advantage,
and by veering up and down to gain a little of the wind, and in this manner they spent this
whole day: the wind continuing at south-south-east, they did not advance much all this day,
only kept what they had gained before, and held plying up and down in that dangerous sea; their
support was that this was the good pleasure of their God, whose will the wind and waters do obey.

Though the weather was not foul, yet it was thick with fog which arose at the foot of the horizon,
and the mariners said this weather was ordinary in these seas, but very dangerous. In the evening
some of the company made them pastime to divert the tediousness of the way and weather.

June 3, 1654.

[SN: The island of Gothland.]

About midnight the wind came about somewhat fairer than before, and Whitelocke gained a little
in his course. At sunrising he discovered the isle of Gothland, eight leagues distant to the
east from the isle of Oeland; afterwards the wind returned to the same quarter wherein it was
yesterday.

The isle of Oeland is near the continent, extending itself in length by the shore eighteen
Swedish miles, but hath not in breadth in any place above two Swedish miles. This is the place
where the Prince of Sweden, now King, used to make his residence, in a fair castle built of
stone of this island, not inferior to marble,--these stones are in great request for pavements,
pillars, and other uses and ornaments in building. The pillars of the King's Chapel at Stockholm,
great and high, well polished and of divers colours, were brought from this island, and they
have many of these stones in the buildings of the great lords. This island is a place of the
most field-pleasure of any in this country, being open and stored with red and fallow deer,
with hares and conies, and with partridges, which are scarce in other parts; but here the game
is preserved for the Prince's pleasure.

The isle of Gothland is about fourteen Swedish miles in length, and five in breadth. It anciently
belonged to the Swedes till the Danes took it from them, and kept the possession of it till
the late wars between those two crowns, when the Swedes recovered it from the Dane; and by
the peace after that war the treaty left it to the Swede, and allowed for it the isle of Bornholm
to the Dane, being nearer his dominions. They report that heretofore Gothland (belonging to
the Goths, from whom it hath the name) was famous for the traffic of all these quarters, and
had in it a large town called Wisby, where formerly certain laws were instituted touching the
sea, which are observed to this day. But Lübeck, and other towns on that side, having got the
trade from hence, and the sea by inundations having much diminished this isle, both it and
the town are become but of small consideration.

The wind was little and very variable, and this day was a calm, so that they could advance
very little in their voyage. In the evening the wind grew fresh, and increased till three o'clock
the next morning, so that they made good way in their course; but these deep seas began to
rise, and the ship to roll and toss so much, that some of Whitelocke's people, sensible of
it and of the increasing of the wind and waves, and of the mariners' labour and disorder, began
to be afraid and sick. But Whitelocke cherished and comforted them the best he could, and gave
order for attendance upon them, and that they should want nothing which the ship could afford;
the which was the more in his power, the command of it being wholly left to him by the Queen;
and by his kindness, and ceasing of the storm, they began to recover their courage, the wind
changed, and it grew more calm after the ruffling.

June 4, 1654.

[SN: The voyage.--Bornholm.]

The Lord's Day.--Still Whitelocke was toiling on the Baltic Sea. After three o'clock in the
morning he advanced a good way in his course; but about ten o'clock they discovered land, which
was the isle of Bornholm, distant from the point of south of Oeland eighteen German leagues.
It seemeth a plain and flat ground, about eight Swedish miles in length, and about five in
breadth; this isle is fruitful and well peopled, abounding in pastures, so that it yields a
good revenue in butter. Many witches are affirmed to be in this isle, and no place in this
sea hath more shipwrecks than upon Bornholm. Some give the reason thereof from the strait pass
between this isle and the continent; yet is the coast clean and without rocks, and hath good
roads; others attribute the cause of these shipwrecks to the great and dangerous sands about
this and the other isles of this sea, which (especially about this isle of Bornholm) do lie
out far and shallow in the sea, on which many ships have been struck and lost; and here Whitelocke's
ship was in some peril, but it pleased God still to preserve him. He floated in sight of this
island almost all this day, the wind veering into most points of the compass, and he was turned
back from his course and lost more than he gained of his way.

About nine o'clock in the morning the ship's company, having a minister on board with them,
were at their exercises of devotion, which they have every morning, beginning with singing
a psalm, as we do; then the minister prays, but not long, and the conclusion is to sing about
two verses of another psalm, and so they part; except on the Lord's Day, as this was, their
chaplain preached a short sermon in the morning in Swedish, but none in the afternoon. Whitelocke
for his own company had the usual exercises of praying and preaching by his chaplain Mr. De
la Marche, Mr. Ingelo being sick.

Towards the evening the wind began to be fresh again; they kept their course near Bornholm,
and might discern the castle. After Whitelocke was gone to rest, Vice-Admiral Clerke, who was
on board with him, followed a ship to inquire if she heard any news of a Swedish ship laden
with salt from Portugal; at which some of Whitelocke's company taking offence, the Vice-Admiral
desisted; but by this deviation, the 'Amarantha' (which is not fleet of sail) lost three leagues,
which she was cast back in her course, and was brought in great danger by sailing too near
the shore; but the Lord guided them.

June 5, 1654.

[SN: Meet an English ship.]

In the morning Whitelocke was out of sight of Bornholm, and pursued his course, the wind blowing
a little in a good quarter. About nine o'clock they descried some ships, of which one seemed
to be a great one; and coming nearer, they perceived an English ship to be with them. The 'Amarantha'
fired a gun to warn them to strike sail, she carrying the flag in her maintop, and being a
man-of-war of Sweden. The English captain did not obey, and Clerke commanded to shoot again
at him; but Whitelocke ordered Clerke first to send his boat with some of Whitelocke's servants,
to advertise the English captain that Whitelocke was in the Swedish ship. They coming on board
found the captain in choler, preparing to fight with the Swede, denying their sovereignty on
these seas; but being informed by his countrymen that the English Ambassador was on board the
Swedish ship, he presently, and Mr. Fisher, a merchant, with him, came to Whitelocke, rejoicing
to see him, and said that if he had not been there the Swedish Vice-Admiral should have had
hot work; but now he struck sail to the Ambassador, whom he acquainted that all was well in
England; that he had brought in his ship the commissioners to agree the differences between
our Commonwealth and Denmark, who were now at Copenhagen; and that when they passed the Sound,
the King of Denmark's officers were very friendly to them. He told Whitelocke also that two
English frigates, sent by the Protector for Whitelocke's transportation, were arrived at Hamburg,
and waited for Whitelocke there; after giving him some wine, and discourse, Whitelocke dismissed
this Captain Morgan to proceed in his voyage to Danzic, whither he was bound. At his parting
all were friends, and Clerke gave him two guns, after the Swedish custom, but Morgan answered
him with seven pieces of ordnance; then Clerke gave him two more guns, to which Morgan gave
two also, and a third a little while after.

The 'Amarantha' having loitered by reason of the calm, which continued till the evening, they
were most part of this day within sight of the isle of Rügen, near the coast of Pomerland,
and part of that Duchy which fell in partage to one of the duke's sons, who there kept his
court in a fair castle, whereof somewhat yet remains. The island appears high to those that
sail by it, and hath in length about eight German miles, and about five in breadth; the King
Gustavus took it, and it hath since continued in the possession of the Swedes, and was confirmed
to them by the late treaty of Munster; the coast is full of white sands, and dangerous to those
who are not well acquainted with the passages, which hereabout are strait, and a bank of sand
comes far out into the sea, on which Whitelocke was in great peril, within four-fathom water
in the night; but they were glad to veer back again and tack about to escape the danger.

The wind blew fresh from the north-east, by which he continued his course till about midnight;
when there came a hideous storm of wind, thunder, rain, and lightning, which caused them to
furl their sails, and lasted about three hours; but the waves continued very high above twelve
hours together afterwards, it being the nature of this sea when it is once stirred, that by
reason of the great depth it will not be still again for many hours after. Some of Whitelocke's
company were much affrighted with this tempest, and not without cause; but it pleased God to
cease the storm, and give fair weather, and thereby more cause to remember the experiences
they have had of His divine goodness throughout their whole voyage.

June 6, 1654.

[SN: The coast of Pomerania.]

In the morning; the wind continued fair, and they made good way till towards eight o'clock,
when it grew calm till about seven o'clock in the evening. All this day they were upon the
coast of Pomerland. One of the mariners, from the top-gallant, espying land and a town, informed
them that it was Wismar; but coming nearer to the shore, they found it to be Rostock, eight
leagues further from Lübeck than Wismar is. Both these towns are subject to the Crown of Sweden,
port towns, and of good trade; Rostock more famous to the High Dutch for their exceeding strong
and thick beer.

In the evening the wind blew fair north-west, but the sky grew thick, and the night coming
on, they, for fear of falling upon the coast, tacked off again to sea, and out of their course.
About eleven o'clock at night the storm began much more violent than the night before, continuing
about six hours, to the imminent danger of the ship to be overset and foundered in the sea,
but still God preserved them. About midnight was a horrible noise, the thunder fierce and strangely
loud, the sky all in flames with the wonderful lightnings; and though it be frequent to meet
with great tempests of thunder and lightnings upon this sea, and much more dreadful than those
in England, yet now the officers and mariners of the ship affirmed that they never saw the
like to this tempest, and that they were almost blind with the shining and flashes of this
lightning. They saw also on the land houses burning, set on fire by the lightning, any flame
whereof fastening upon the combustible matter of the ship the same had instantly been fired
and all within her inevitably had perished. But still God was their defence and deliverer.
The tempest was so outrageous that they were forced to take down their sails and let fall their
anchors. Here they found the difference between Sweden and this country: there, at midnight,
one might plainly read without a candle; here, though nearer the summer solstice and the days
at longest, they found at least four hours of dark night, as seeming near the winter.

June 7, 1654.

[SN: Arrive at Lübeck.]

The tempest began to cease about five o'clock in the morning, and it grew fair weather, the
wind coming good for them to continue and finish their voyage. Thus God preserved them from
the danger of the last night as of many times before, the which Whitelocke held himself obliged
more largely to describe as so many monuments, to him and his company, of the goodness of God
towards them, and to preserve the memory thereof as arguments to him and his, wholly to depend
upon that God of whom they have had so much experience.

The wind continued fair, and they sailed all along in the sight of land, drawing nearer and
nearer to it, which was pleasant to those who had been in such storms, and were not a little
longing to be at their native home. They came about ten o'clock in the morning to the road
at Lübeck, and no sooner was the ship settled there but the wind ceased and blew not at all,
but it became a great calm; wherein also the providence and goodness of God was seen, that
had they not come to an anchor at this very moment, they must have been still roaming on the
sea till the wind had come about again for them, and perhaps might have been kept out at sea
many days longer. They were all filled with joy, having passed one half of their voyage, and
seeing the place of their first descent on land. The 'Amarantha,' having let fall her anchors,
fired two guns, and a ship of the Duke of Courland's, in the road, answered them with three.
This road is a gulf between two arms of land, at the first entrance from one another about
a league; but it becomes more narrow as one approacheth nearer to the mouth of the river, which
is called Trave, and divides the two Duchies of Mecklenburg and Holstein. This is the road
or haven belonging to the town of Lübeck, and is of good defence and safety to secure the riding
of ships, and of conveniency for the trade of that town into the Baltic Sea.

After this perilous voyage of eight days' sailing on the angry Baltic Seas,--escaping the dismal,
infinite, vast, craggy rocks, seen and unseen, and the covered sands and dangerous coasts,
in the highest storms,--it pleased Him who giveth bounds to the deep waters and stilleth the
waves thereof, to conduct Whitelocke and all his people in safety to this haven. They were
not negligent to prepare for their going on shore, in order whereunto Whitelocke sent Colonel
Potley and some of his servants to land, to provide horses for his coach, and waggons for his
train and baggage; purposing to go that night to Lübeck, being but two German leagues from
Tremon, and the days now at longest.

Potley, according to order, gave notice to the Governor of Tremon of Whitelocke's coming on
shore in the territories of his masters, the Lords of Lübeck, and provided boats, horses, waggons,
and all things necessary, with diligence and dexterity. Whilst this was doing, Whitelocke calls
his company together into his cabin, where they gave thanks to God for their safe arrival in
this place, and humbly prayed for the continuance of his blessing and presence with them, the
rest of their journey yet to come.

After dinner, Whitelocke sent for Vice-Admiral Clerke and Captain Sinclair into his cabin,
where he gave them thanks for the care and pains they had taken for him and his company, and
for their particular respects to himself and observance of his desires; whereof he said he
would by letters acquaint his Majesty of Sweden, and report to the Protector their respects
to him. He desired them to accept a small testimony of his thankfulness for their civilities.
He gave the Vice-Admiral sixty dollars, to distribute to the mariners, and sixty dollars more
to the officers of the ship,--that is, the master and his mate, the boatswain, the constable
(so they call the master gunner), the gunner's mate, and the rest. To Captain Sinclair he gave
eighty ducats, and to the Vice-Admiral one hundred ducats, which were the best compliments,
and thankfully accepted by them; and Whitelocke was the more liberal in these rewards, being
to strangers, and for the honour of his nation.

The boats being gone, with the coaches, baggage, and most of the people, and the rest not unwilling
to be on shore, Whitelocke, with most of his gentlemen, went in one of the ship-boats; the
Vice-Admiral bare him company, and did him the honour to steer the boat himself; the rest of
the company went in the other ship-boat. After Whitelocke was gone off the length of two or
three boats, and whilst the other boat lay by the side of the ship, they fired forty pieces
of ordnance, which, being so very near, did, with the wind, or fear of the cannon, strike down
some that were in the boat, who were more than frighted, insomuch that one of them, after he
came to Lübeck, continued very ill with swooning fits; but by the care of Doctor Whistler and
good cordials, through the blessing of God, he recovered, and was well again.

They went about half a league by water from the ship to the mouth of the river, where there
is a little fort with some great guns mounted, and without that are small towers for lights
to direct the seamen, and a village called Tremon, where they landed, all belonging to the
city of Lübeck. Mon, in High Dutch, signifies a mouth, and Tre is the name of the river; so
Tremon is the mouth of the river Tre. At their landing stood, ready to receive them, a tall
old man, with a long, white, venerable beard; he wore a broad belt, with a long basket-hilted
sword; he was a Colonel, and Governor of that fort. He spake to Whitelocke in High Dutch, which
Potley interpreted to this effect:--

    "My Lord Ambassador,

    "In the name of my masters, the Lords of Lübeck, I bid your
    Excellence welcome on shore and to this place."

Whitelocke answered him as shortly:--

    "Noble Colonel,

    "I heartily thank you for your civility, whereof I hope ere long to
    have the opportunity to acquaint your masters the Lords of Lübeck."

As Whitelocke passed by they fired three guns from the fort. The Colonel conducted Whitelocke
to his house, near the landing-place, multitudes of people flocking together. The house was
not stately, nor very convenient. There they were entertained with great store of very strong
beer, which they call mum; and the Colonel was exceeding free to call for large flagons of
it for Whitelocke and for all his people; which Whitelocke apprehending to have been the generosity
of the Governor, yet fearing some disorder by it among the inferior sort, and being whispered
by Colonel Potley that the Governor expected to be paid for his drink, which he usually sold
to the passengers, Whitelocke ordered the reckoning to be paid, and hasted from this honourable
alehouse to his coach.

It was about four o'clock in the afternoon when Whitelocke went from Tremon, from whence to
Lübeck is two Dutch miles, that is, eight of our English miles. And coming with such a train,
and to pass the usual ceremony in such cases to the Lords of Lübeck, Whitelocke sent Mr. Berkman
and one of his servants before, to salute the Lords of Lübeck in the name of the Protector,
as friends to the Commonwealth of England, and to advertise them, that the English Ambassador
having occasions to pass through this city, and to be there this day, he thought it requisite
to give them notice of it. In the midway between Tremon and Lübeck they came to a ferry over
the Trave; the boat was large enough to carry at once two coaches and many horses. At each
end of the ferryboat such artificial work is made with planks that it serves both at the coming
in and going out of the boat, meeting with the planks on each side of the shore. By the weight
of coach, horses, waggons, cattle, or men, the planks are so wrought that they rise and fall
according to the weight upon them, and so as both those on the shore and the ends of the boat
come to be even, and without more trouble in the passing over them than a bridge would be.

The great company, and some mishap of tearing one of his coaches, hindered Whitelocke's journey;
but they went on in good time. About an English mile before they came to Lübeck, some company
appearing on the road, Whitelocke's lacqueys alighted out of their waggons, and Whitelocke
was met upon the way by an ancient person of a good portly carriage, with a great white beard,
and a greater ruff. He was attended with four coaches; the first had six good horses in it,
and was handsome, but not rich. The gentleman, being alighted, and then Whitelocke also, he
came and saluted Whitelocke, and spake to him in the High Dutch, to this effect:--

    "My Lord Ambassador,

    "My masters, the Lords of Lübeck, have sent me with their coaches to
    conduct your Excellence into their city, and to bid you welcome
    hither; and to assure you likewise that whatsoever this city will
    afford shall be at your Excellence's service."

Whitelocke returned this answer:--

    "Sir,

    "I esteem it an honour to receive this respect from the Lords of
    Lübeck, your masters, for which ere long I hope to have the
    opportunity to give them thanks; and in the meantime give me leave
    to acknowledge your civility."

This person they call the Marshal of the town, whom the Lords sent to meet Whitelocke, to answer
his civility of sending to them, which they took kindly. Then a young gentleman, well mounted
and habited, met Whitelocke on the way with a packet of three weeks' letters from England,
which he said Mr. Missenden, his father, received from Mr. Bradshaw, the Protector's Resident
at Hamburg, with order to send them to Whitelocke to Lübeck.

Whitelocke went into the coach of the Lords of Lübeck; with him were the Marshal, and Colonel
Potley to interpret for him. The country through which they passed was pleasant and fruitful,
stored with groves, and fields of corn not enclosed, but much like the champaign counties of
England, only more woody, and seemed the pleasanter to those who were lately come out of Sweden
and from the Baltic Sea. Part of the country was the Duchy of Mecklenburg, and part of it Holstein.

When they drew near the city Whitelocke ordered that his staffiers and lacqueys, in their liveries,
should walk by his coach bare, and his pages after them; then his gentlemen and others in the
other coaches and waggons, in which equipage they entered the city. At the first fort they
saluted Whitelocke with three pieces of ordnance, and at the gates of the city were good guards,
with their muskets. The streets were filled with people, and many in the windows--not so many
men as women; and those of the best rank and habit were with their bodies and smock sleeves,
like the maids in England in hot weather. Here the best women, whose age will bear it, are
thus habited, and with it sometimes rich clothes and jewels. When they were come into the city,
the Marshal took his leave of Whitelocke, saying that he must go to the Lord, to advertise
him of Whitelocke's arrival.

Whitelocke passed through a great part of the town before he came to the inn appointed for
his reception, which was fairer without than within doors, the rooms for eating and lodging
neither handsome nor well finished. About half an hour after he was come to the inn, the Lords
of the town sent one of their officers to him, to know what time he would be pleased to appoint
for them to come and salute him. Whitelocke answered, that whensoever they thought fit to do
him the honour to visit him they should be welcome, and left to them the time which should
be most convenient for their own occasions.

Being settled and at a little quiet, he read his letters from England. Thurloe acquaints him
that the issue of his negotiation, and the prudent conduct of it, had very good acceptance
in England, whither his return was much wished and prayed for. Then he informs him of all the
news both foreign and domestic, and the readiness of the Protector to send ships for him to
Hamburg. From Mr. Cokaine he had several letters about his bills of exchange, and other particular
affairs. He had also letters from Mr. Taylor, from Resident Bradshaw, from his wife, and from
several loving friends in England.

June 8, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke receives the Senate of Lübeck.]

In the morning the Lords of Lübeck sent again to Whitelocke, to know what time they might come
to visit him. He answered, at their own time, and that they should be welcome to him within
an hour. There came to him Martin Bokel, Doctor of the Laws, Syndic of the city, of good reputation
for his learning and abilities, Jerome Bilderbeck, and Matthew Rodde, Senators and Lords of
the city. The Syndic spake in French to Whitelocke to this effect:--"That, by command of the
Lords of this city, those gentlemen, part of their number, and himself, were come in the name
of the Lords of Lübeck to salute Whitelocke, and to bid him welcome to their city; that they
rejoiced at his safe arrival here, and for the good success of those affairs wherein he had
been employed." Whitelocke answered them in French, the same language in which they spake to
him, and which is expected in these parts, to this effect:--"That the Lords of Lübeck had testified
much respect to the Protector of England by the honour done to his servant, of which he would
inform his Highness; and in the meantime he thanked them for the favour of this visit."

After many compliments, Whitelocke gave them the precedence into his lodging, which is the
custom here, as in Sweden, and their discourse was in French in these matters of ceremony.
Being sat together in his bedchamber, the Syndic told Whitelocke that he had a message to deliver
to him from his Lords; and, according to the custom in matters of business, he desired to deliver
what he had to say in Latin, and then spake to him in the following oration:--

    "Illustrissime et Excellentissime Domine Legate,

    "Amplissimus Senatus Lubicensis grato animo recognoscit celeberrimam
    nationem Anglicanam multiplici favore à multis retro annis populum
    mercatoresque hujus civitatis affecisse, atque etiam sæviente inter
    utrasque respublicas durissimo bello, incolas nostras gratiam, et,
    ex occasione suarum navium ad mare captarum, justitiam accepisse:
    amplissimus Senatus humillimè gratias suas refert, quas melius
    testari non potuerunt, quam erga personam illius conditionis
    tantæque eminentiæ quantæ Excellentiam vestram esse acceperant, suo
    speciali respectu, ad hæc cum etiam Extraordinarii Legati munere à
    clarissimo illo statu nunc dignissimè fungatur. Gratulatur
    amplissimus Senatus negotiationis ab Excellentia vestra peractæ
    felicem successum, ut et tanti viri in suam civitatem adventum. Quod
    si apud se in sua civitate aliquid sit Excellentiæ vestræ acceptu
    dignum, illud quicquid sit offerre in mandatis habemus.

    "Dolore etiam afficitur Senatus, se tam sero de Excellentiæ vestræ
    adventu certiorem esse factum, ut rationes unde tantus hospes, et
    qui in ipsius comitatu sunt, pro merito exciperentur; melius inire
    non potuerit, se tamen sperare à clementia vestra ipsis id crimini
    non datum iri. Per nos rogant hujus urbis magistratus, Excellentiæ
    vestræ placeat, cervisiæ Lubicensis vinique Rhenani (quod
    officiariis Excellentiæ vestræ tradi curaverant) parvulum utut munus
    boni consulere.

    "Excellentissime Domine, candore vestro freti speramus, non nobis id
    vitio datum iri, si etiam hoc temporis articulo paucula ex rebus
    nostris vestræ Excellentiæ consideranda proponamus: intempestivè
    fatemur importuni sumus, sed certiores facti, non diuturnam fore
    vestram in civitate nostra moram, id solliciti timemus, ne
    aliquando nobis similis offeratur opportunitas; ideo à dominis
    nostris jubemur Excellentiam vestram certiorem facere, quam plures
    hujus urbis naves inter navigandum negotii causâ, occurrentes
    navibus præliaribus Anglis, ab iisdem examen subiisse, liberatas
    tamen extemplò et dimissas, quod nihil suppetiarum hostibus vestris
    contulisse deprehendebantur; nihilominus easdem naves à quibusdam
    privatis vestris captoribus, capers dictis, non multò post
    apprehensas fuisse, et hucusque detentas esse, magno dominorum
    detrimento.

    "Sperat amplissimus Senatus, intercedente Excellentia vestra, ex
    justitia et favore Domini Protectoris, restitutionem earundem
    secundum jus et æquum suo populo futuram, quem in finem, tam
    magistratus, quem hujusce civitatis populus suppliciter rogat
    favorem et amicitiam Celsitudinis suæ Domini Protectoris, et
    illustrissimæ reipublicæ Angliæ, in iis, quæ vel commercia vel etiam
    alia spectant, posse sibi continuari."

After a little pause Whitelocke made answer in Latin to the Syndic's speech, to the effect
following:--

    "Spectatissimi viri,

    "Rectè à vobis observatum est, antiquam fuisse inter populum
    Anglicanum civesque Lubicenses amicitiam et mutuam officiorum
    benevolentiam; nec defuisse unquam nobis, data occasione, Domini mei
    Domini Protectoris reipublicæ Angliæ, Scotiæ, et Hiberniæ, animum
    benevolentissimum, quem integrum adhuc à Serenissima sua Celsitudine
    erga vos conservari nullus dubito. Nec suspicio mihi est, quin
    amplissimus Senatus, hujusque celeberrimæ urbis liberi cives,
    Dominum meum Dominum Protectorem honore omni debito prosequentur, et
    benevolo affectu quotquot Anglorum, commercii aut conversationis
    causâ, apud vos appellere voluerint.

    "Referte, quæso, meo nomine, amplissimo hujus civitatis Senatui,
    gratias ob respectum erga Dominum meum Dominum Protectorem
    rempublicamque Anglicanam, in honorificâ mei eorum ministri
    receptione significatum, tam in appulsu meo ad suum portum, quam ad
    civitatem suam aditu, necnon in munere quod mihi offerre ipsis
    placuit: honori duco quod per me, in suis negotiis, Dominum
    Protectorem compellare ipsis visum est, quod munus in me libenter
    recipio præstandum, quamprimum Deo placuerit ad Serenissimam suam
    Celsitudinem mihi reditum indulgere, cui id curæ est, ut unicuique
    quod est juris uniuscujusque tribuatur. Non equidem dubito, quin
    particularia favoris et respectûs erga hanc celeberrimam civitatem
    specimina reipsa effecta comperiamini."

The Syndic replied in French, that they did give many thanks to Whitelocke, in that he was
pleased to take in so good part the respect of this City to him, and desired that if there
were anything here which might do him service, that he would command it. Whitelocke said he
came by this City in a desire to see it and the fortifications of it, which, if they pleased
to give him leave to do, he should take it as a favour. They said, that even now the Senate
had ordered Monsieur Bilderbeck and the commander of their forces to wait upon Whitelocke at
such time as he should appoint, to view the city, with their fortifications and magazines,
and whatsoever here should be thought by him worthy of his sight. Whitelocke thanked them,
and discoursed touching the government of the City, and what laws they used, to which the Syndic
answered, that their government was chiefly and generally by the municipal laws and customs
of the city.

[SN: The franchises of Lübeck.]

Of these gentlemen and others Whitelocke learned this city is the chief and most ancient of
the Hanse Towns of Germany, and a kind of free State; that they have power to send Commissioners
as public ministers to any foreign prince or State, to treat and conclude with them about any
matters relating to their city, and that without the leave or knowledge of the Emperor.

The people of the city chiefly are the merchants and artificers, most of them tradesmen; and
both they who are masters, and their servants, being constantly employed in trades and personal
businesses, they are the less troublesome in the government of them; as to the criminal part,
idleness, being the mother of mischief, causeth quarrels and debaucheries, from whence pilferings,
robberies, fightings, and murders do arise; but where people are kept to occupations, traffic,
and employments, as they are here, it breeds civility, peaceableness of disposition, desire
of rest and quiet, and a plentiful subsistence, and gives less occasion of proceedings in criminal
offences. But as to suits upon bargains and contracts, they are the more, because there be
so many contracts as merchants and tradesmen must make; yet those suits are here brought to
a speedy determination within themselves by their ordinary judges, which are three, and usually
assisted with a doctor or licentiate in the laws, who are in great esteem in this country.
These judges commonly sit thrice a week, to determine civil controversies, which they do by
their own laws and customs, which also have much affinity to the civil law, especially as to
the forms and manners of their proceedings; and where the matter contended for exceeds the
value of a thousand rix-dollars, there the party grieved may, if he please, appeal from the
sentence of these judges to the Imperial Chamber at Spires, as they also do in capital causes;
but civil causes under the value of a thousand dollars are finally determined within themselves,
and no appeal lies from them.

They acknowledge the Emperor as their protector, but afford him no gabels or taxes but what
their deputies, whom they elect and send to the general Diet of the Empire, do assent unto.
Their chief officers are a Burgomaster, like our Mayor, twenty-four Senators, like our Common
Council, and a Syndic, as our Recorder. These are the chief Council and Judicatory of the city,
and order all the public affairs thereof; only in some extraordinary occasions of making laws
or foreign treaties, matters of war and peace, the people of the town make choice of deputies,
sometimes forty or fifty,--more or less, as they please,--who sit and consult with the Senate,
and by their votes by the people, who willingly submit thereunto.

The town-house of their Guildhall is reasonably fair, not extraordinary. Their Court of Justice
is below at the upper end of a large hall, made four-square, with seats like the Court of Exchequer
in England; above this is another Court or Council-house, greater than that below, which is
for the meeting of the Deputies of the Hanse Towns, who usually all assemble here; they have
also several other chambers for the meetings and consultations of their own Senators and officers
about the affairs of the city.

[SN: Aspect of the city.]

In the afternoon the Commander or Lieutenant-General of the forces of the town, whom they call
Obrist Lieutenant, Monsieur Andreas Keiser, and the Senator Bilderbeck, came, with four of
the city coaches, to accompany Whitelocke to see the town and fortifications of it. The Senator
spoke only Latin, the Lieutenant spoke good French. They went through most parts of the town,
and found the figure of it exactly done in painting in a table in their magazine, with the
fortifications of it: upon the view of the whole town, it seemed a pleasant and noble city.
It is of great antiquity, freedom, privileges, trade, polity, and strength, few in these parts
exceeding it; not unhealthful in the situation, beautiful in the buildings, profitable in the
commerce, strong in the fortifications, and rich in the inhabitants.

The streets are large and fair, kept clean and sweet; the houses built of brick, generally
uniform, most in the frontispieces, and covered with tile; at the entry into them, usually
the first and lower room is largest, paved with Orland stone, full of streaks of red and white,
and some with black and white rich marble. In this first room they use to set their best household
stuff, as the chief room for entertainment; yet they will also in some part of the room have
a partition with boards, above a man's height, for a kitchen, where they dress meat and hang
their bacon and other provision{9}, which are not out of sight nor smell; and here also, in
this room, some of their goods of merchandise are placed; but the better sort keep their houses
more neat, and have kitchens and larders out of view. In the second story are ordinarily the
lodging-rooms, and some for entertainment; the third and fourth stories are granaries and storehouses,
which they hold better for such uses than cellars and lower rooms, which, they say, cause damage
to the commodities.

The country about, for a league, and in some parts two leagues or more, belongs to the city,
is within their jurisdiction, and is fruitful and pleasant, sweetly watered by the Trave, adorned
by the groves and meadows, and many pleasant summer-houses for the recreation of the citizens.

[SN: Fortifications and arsenal of Lübeck.]

The town is regularly and strongly fortified, the more being situated in a plain and low country,
with the rivers and waters about it; the grafts of the works are large and deep, full of water
on all sides; between the bulwarks are large places, sufficient to draw together five hundred
men in each vacant place; and on the banks of some of the ditches are low thorn hedges, kept
cut, as good for defence as palisades. There be many pieces of ordnance mounted on several
parts of the works, chiefly on the bulwarks, and divers of them are demi-cannon: the fortifications
are about a league in compass; the Trave furnisheth water for all the grafts, and the earth
with which the lines are made is of a good sort and well turfed. They are well stored with
arms and ammunition, which Whitelocke was admitted to see in their arsenal, which is a large
house; in the lower room were twelve mortar-pieces of several sizes, and two hundred pieces
of brass ordnance, founded in the town, some of them great culverin, one of an extraordinary
length; but there was neither powder nor ball--that was kept elsewhere; but here were the utensils
to load and cleanse the guns, hung up in order, and the carriages were strong and good. The
story above this was furnished with arms, few for horse or pikemen, but many muskets and swords,
disposed in ranks the whole length of the room, with bandoliers between, and cases for bullets
beneath; at the upper end of the room hung certain great swords, with which traitors had been
beheaded; at the lower end of the room were many halberds; divers of the muskets were firelocks,
others for match, and some with double barrels. There was in all, by conjecture, arms for twelve
thousand foot, few pikes or horse-arms, but muskets, as most useful for a town, and according
to the custom in these parts, where the companies in the town militias are only musketeers,
they holding pikes not proper but in the field and against horse.

The forces of this city constantly in pay are fifteen hundred men, besides twenty-five companies
of the citizens, each company consisting of two hundred men, and two troops of horse of the
citizens. Their chief strength, under God, consisting in the bodies of their citizens, proper
and stout men, who, if they come to fight pro aris et focis, for religion, liberty, wives and
children, and estates, for their all, are full of courage; not like mercenary, unfixed, unfaithful
men, whose trade is in blood, and who are pests to mankind.

[SN: Honours paid to Whitelocke.]

At their Guildhall they entertained Whitelocke and his company with wine and sweetmeats, but
not profusely. After a long and large tour, they brought Whitelocke back to his inn, and did
him the honour to sup with him; and, with much respect and civility, the Obrist-Lieutenant
and Senator after supper took their leaves of Whitelocke. Divers men and women of the best
quality of the citizens came with their children to Whitelocke's inn to see him, and many of
them would stand by whilst he was at meals. He caused his people to show all civility to them,
as himself did, saluting the gentlemen and seeming to offer to kiss the women's hands, the
salutation of the lip not being in these countries allowed.

The Lords sent a guard of twelve musketeers to attend Whitelocke, which were placed at his
door and in the street, and relieved by others during the time of Whitelocke's stay here, as
an expression of their respects to him. The town musicians, who were masters, well accoutred
and behaved, and played some English lessons, and the town trumpets and drums, came likewise
to show their respects to Whitelocke, but the more readily in expectation of some reward from
him, which expenses cannot honourably be avoided. Whitelocke's four pages, eight lacqueys,
and four grooms, besides the gentlemen's lacqueys, in his livery, walked bare by his coach-side
when he went abroad; himself was in his plain grey English cloth suit, with the Queen of Sweden's
jewel at his breast. The people were full of respect to him in their salutations as he passed
by them.

The secretary of the English company at Hamburg came to Whitelocke from the Resident and company
there, to invite him to the English house there, with expression of much ceremony and respect
to him as their countryman. Whitelocke was not willing to stay longer than one day in this
town, and therefore ordered his officers to make preparations of horses and waggons to remove
from hence tomorrow; and understanding that it was forty English miles from hence to Hamburg,
and much of the way bad, he thought it too long a journey for him, with so great a train and
hired horses, to travel in one day, and therefore ordered to go from hence tomorrow in the
afternoon, to lie at a village midway between Lübeck and Hamburg. The Lords of Lübeck, with
much courtesy, offered him to lodge in a house of theirs three leagues from hence, and to make
use of their horses; but he thought it not convenient, the house not being furnished and their
horses not used to travel, and he having sent before to the village midway to take up his quarters;
for which reasons he excused it to the Lords, yet with many thanks for their courteous offers.

June 9, 1654.

[SN: The Lutheran Church at Lübeck.]

Several gentlemen of the English company at Hamburg, and among them his nephew, Sir Humphry
Bennett's son, came hither to visit and accompany Whitelocke to Hamburg. The Senators and Syndic
and Obrist-Lieutenant, who had been before with Whitelocke, came to take their leaves of him.
From them and others Whitelocke learnt, that the religion professed in this city is after the
doctrine of Luther and the Augsburg confession; yet some Calvinists are permitted, though not
publicly, among them, and some Papists are also connived at, though not publicly tolerated
to exercise their worship; yet some of them live in a college of Canons, who have a fair house
and good revenues in this city.

They have many images and crucifixes in their churches: one, made of earth, of the Virgin Mary,
very exactly, is believed by many goodwives of the town, that, upon worshiping and praying
to it, they shall become fruitful. In the same church is a rare tablet of the passion of our
Saviour, admired by artists for the rare painting and lineaments of it. Above the altar is
a little image of our Lady, so contrived with wires fastened to it, that one, being hid on
the other side of it, may make it turn forward and backward, to the admiration of the multitude
of spectators, who know, by the motion of the image, whether the offerings which they make,
and lay upon the altar, be acceptable or not; if one gives a small offering, the image turns
away from it in disdain of it; if it be a fat offering, it turns towards it in token of acceptance;
and though they tell these stories themselves, yet still they retain these images and trumperies
among them. This church is of a good length and breadth, but the height is not proportionable:
it hath few monuments of note, only some of their Bishops and Canons, among which one is indeed
remarkable, which they will needs have to be believed, where a Canon was buried some hundreds
of years since, yet now sometimes is heard to knock in his grave, whereupon instantly some
one or other of his surviving brethren, the Canons, gives up the ghost, and comes to the dead
Canon at his call.

From hence Whitelocke went and viewed the other churches, all alike furnished with images and
crucifixes, and full of pews, fitted according to the quality of the parishioners. The churches
are built of brick, and some of them covered with copper, which they brought from Sweden in
older times. They use a liturgy, not much differing from our old Book of Common Prayer; their
ministers are grave and formal; they commend them for pious and learned and good preachers;
but Whitelocke, not having the favour to see one of them at his lodging, can give the less
particular account of them.

[SN: The trade of Lübeck.]

Whitelocke also learnt that the trade of this city is the most of any town on this side the
Baltic Sea, having a convenient port or road at Tremon, belonging to this city, from whence
they send into all parts of that sea, and have the advantage for the commerce of copper, deal,
hemp, flax, pitch, tar, and all the commodities of those parts; and by this port, they save
the trouble and charge of going about through the Sound, which southern merchants do.

Before the Swedes had much traffic, and built their own ships, and employed their own mariners,
which is not ancient, Lübeck did more flourish, and had the sole trade of Sweden, and of vending
their commodities again into all parts of the world; whereby the Lübeckers grew great and rich,
especially by the copper and iron which they brought from Sweden hither, and wrought it into
utensils and arms, and then carried it back to Sweden for the use of the inhabitants there;
who, growing in time more wise, and learning to work their own materials, and to build and
employ their own ships in trade, and the city of Hamburg growing up and increasing in trade,
and particularly by the staple for English cloth being there settled, and those of Lübeck not
admitting strangers among them, their town began to decay, and to lessen in their trade and
wealth, and is not now so considerable as in former times, yet still they drive a good trade
into the Baltic Sea and other parts, but not with so great ships as others use, which they
build at home, of about a hundred and fifty and two hundred tons; and they affirm that they
have built here ships of four hundred tons, but there is difficulty for them to go down to
the river, by reason of the shallows, which yet serves to bring up their commodities in great
boats by the river, from the ships to this town. They find the smaller vessels useful for their
trade, and to build them they are provided of good store of timber out of Germany, Denmark,
and Sweden; and, by their consent, the King of Denmark doth sometimes make use of their town
and carpenters to build ships for himself.

About three o'clock in the afternoon, the baggage and most of Whitelocke's inferior servants
went away. The Lords offered Whitelocke a party of their horse for the guard of his person;
but he, with thanks for their courtesy, refused it, having store of company well armed of his
own retinue, besides some English of Hamburg who were come to him. The Lübeckers commended
the sobriety and plainness of Whitelocke and his company; only they said his liveries were
very noble; and they wondered that they saw no more drinking among them, and that he had so
constant exercises of religious duties in his family.

[SN: Whitelocke proceeds to Hamburg.]

The Senators and Syndic came again to compliment Whitelocke for the Lords, and to wish him
a good journey; and, after ceremonies passed, about four o'clock in the afternoon, Whitelocke
took his coach for Hamburg; he had another coach and four waggons for his people. As he passed
through the streets, multitudes of all sorts stood to see him go by, respectively saluting
him. At the gates were guards of soldiers, and having passed the last port, they saluted him
with three pieces of ordnance, according to their custom, but with no volleys of small-shot;
and so he took his leave of Lübeck. Being come into the road, and his pages and lacqueys in
the waggons, he made what haste he could in his journey with hired horses, and so much company.

The country was pleasant and fruitful, groves of wood, fields of corn, pastures, brooks, and
meadows adorning it: it is an open champaign; few hedges, but some little ones made with dry
wood, like our hurdles, for fencing their gardens and dividing their corn-grounds. The way
was exceeding bad, especially for this time of the year, full of deep holes and sloughs in
some places and of great stones in others. This Duchy of Holstein seems to take its name from
holt, which, with them and in Sweden and with us, signifies wood, and stein, which is a stone;
and this country is very full of wood and stone; yet is it fruitful, and, like England, delightful
to the view, but it is not so full of towns, there not being one in the way between Lübeck
and this night's quarter, which is five German, twenty English, miles. But a few small houses
lie scattered by the way; and about four miles from Kettell, this night's lodging was a fair
brick house by the side of a large pond, which is the house belonging to Lübeck, where they
offered Whitelocke to be entertained, and he found cause afterwards to repent his not accepting
their courtesy.

When they came to the lamentable lodging taken up for him this night, they found in all but
two beds for their whole company. The beds were made only of straw and fleas mingled together;
the antechamber was like a great barn, wherein was the kitchen on the one side, the stable
on the other side; the cattle, hogs, waggons, and coaches were also in the same great chamber
together. They made themselves as merry as they could in this posture, Whitelocke cheering
and telling them that it was in their way home, and therefore to be borne with the less regret.
They of the house excused the want of accommodations, because the war had raged there, and
the soldiers had pillaged the people of all they had, who could not yet recover their former
happy and plentiful condition; which was not helpful to Whitelocke and his people, who must
take things as they were, and make the best shift they could. His officers had provided meat
sufficient for them; he caused fresh straw enough to be laid all over the room, which was the
more tolerable in this hot season. He himself lay in one of his coaches, his sons and some
of his servants in straw, near him; the rest of the company, men and women, on straw, where
they chose to lie in the room, only affording place for the horses, cows, sheep, and hogs,
which quartered in the same chamber together with this good company.

June 10, 1654.

[SN: Journey through Holstein.]

In his coach, through God's goodness, Whitelocke slept well, and all his people on the ground
on fresh straw, yet not so soundly as to hinder their early rising this morning, when they
were quickly ready, none having been put to the trouble of undressing themselves the last night.
His carriages, twelve great waggons, went away about four o'clock this morning, some of the
gentlemen's servants in the van, one upon each waggon; his porter, butlers, and others, in
a waggon in the rear, with store of pistols, screwed guns, swords, and other arms, for their
defence. Whitelocke came forth about six o'clock with his own two coaches, and eight waggons
for the rest of his followers. In some of their waggons they drive three horses on-breast,
and each waggon will hold eight persons. They passed by better houses in this dorf than that
where they quartered, which the harbingers excused, coming thither late and being strangers.

The country was still Holstein, of the same nature as yesterday. In the lower grounds they
saw many storks, one whereof was killed by one of Whitelocke's company with his gun,--a thing
not endured here, where they are very superstitious, and hold it an ill omen where any of them
is killed. But Whitelocke, blessed be God! found it not so; yet he warned his people not to
kill any of them, to avoid offence to the country, who report that these birds will not resort
to any place but where the people are free, as in the United Provinces, where they have many
of them, and do carefully preserve them, and near to Hamburg and other Hanse Towns.

About a mile from Kettell is a great gate cross the highway, where they take toll for the Duke
of Holstein of all the waggons and carriages, a loup-shilling apiece (that is, little more
than an English penny). This gate they shut against Whitelocke, but being informed who he was,
they presently opened it again, and a gentleman came to Whitelocke's coach-side, excusing the
shutting of the gate, being before they knew who it was that passed by. He told Whitelocke
the custom and right of this toll, but that nothing was demanded of ambassadors, who were to
pass freely, especially the Ambassador of the Protector and Commonwealth of England, to whom
the Duke, his master, he said, was a friend. Whitelocke thanked the gentleman for his civility,
acknowledging the Protector to be a friend to the Duke, and so they passed on.

About a mile and a half before they came to Hamburg, Captain Parkes, of the 'President' frigate,
and Captain Minnes, of the 'Elizabeth' frigate, met Whitelocke on the way, and told him all
was well in England, and that by command of the Protector they had brought those two frigates
into the Elbe to transport him into England. Whitelocke told them he was very glad to see them,
especially on this occasion. As they were walking and discoursing of the ships and their voyage,
a great number of persons and coaches, the Resident Bradshaw, with the treasurer, the doctor,
their minister, and almost all the English company, with twenty-two coaches, came to meet Whitelocke
on the way, and to bring him with the more respect to Hamburg. All alighted out of their coaches,
and, after salutations, the Resident told Whitelocke that the occasion of their coming forth
was to testify their respects to Whitelocke, and to desire him to do their company the honour
to accept of the English house at Hamburg for his entertainment. Whitelocke gave them hearty
thanks for their respects to the Protector and to the Commonwealth whereof they were members,
in this honour which they did to their servant. He accepted of their courteous offer, desiring
the company and conversation of his countrymen above all others. They walked a little on foot
together, where the Lord Resident (so they styled him) showed Whitelocke his last week's letters
from Thurloe, mentioning the imprisonment of many upon suspicion that they were engaged in
a plot against the Protector, and that the serious considerable malignants discovered it. He
also delivered to Whitelocke private letters from his wife and other friends.

About a mile from the place where they met was a fair inn by the wayside, where the Resident
moved Whitelocke to make a halt and rest himself, because if he should then go directly to
the town, he would come into it just at dinner-time, which would not be convenient. Upon his
persuasion, and perceiving that a preparation was here made, Whitelocke went in, where the
English company entertained him with a plentiful dinner at a long table holding above sixty
persons. From hence, with Whitelocke's approbation, the Resident, as from himself, sent to
the Governor of the Militia at Hamburg, as Whitelocke had done before to the Lords, to advertise
them of his coming. The Governor returned thanks, and said that two senators were appointed
to receive Whitelocke at the Port. After dinner they all took their coaches. With Whitelocke
was the Resident and Treasurer; the rest in the other coaches, the pages and lacqueys riding
and walking by.

The country is here low and rich, sprinkled with rivers, and adorned with many neat and sweet
houses belonging to the citizens of Hamburg, who resort to those houses in the summer-time
with their families to have the fresh air.

[SN: Arrival at Hamburg.]

Almost an English mile before they came to the town, the highway was full of people come forth
to see Whitelocke pass by. At the port were no Senators to receive him, but great guards of
musketeers and multitudes of all sorts of people, there and through all the streets unto his
lodging thronging so that the coaches could not pass till the guards made way. The people were
very courteous, and Whitelocke answered to the meanest their civility, which is pleasing and
not costly. The windows and doors were also crowded, which showed the populousness of the place
and their expectation as to the Commonwealth of England. They brought Whitelocke to the English
house, which is fair and large, the first room below, according to the fashion of Lübeck; the
chambers, especially where Whitelocke lay, handsomely furnished.

[SN: Reception of the Senate of Hamburg.]

Within half an hour after his arrival, an officer of the town, in the nature of a master of
the ceremonies, came from the Lords of the town to bid Whitelocke welcome thither, and to know
what hour he would appoint for admittance of some of the Lords to visit him. Whitelocke returned
thanks to the Lords for their respects, and prayed the gentleman to tell them that whensoever
they pleased to give him the honour of a visit, they should be welcome to him. Within half
an hour after came two Senators, Herr Jurgen van Holtz and Herr Jacob Silm. After ceremonies
passed, Holtz spake in French to Whitelocke, to this effect:--

    "Monseigneur, qui êtes Ambassadeur Extraordinaire de sa Sérénissime
    Altesse Oliver, par la grâce de Dieu Seigneur Protecteur de la
    République d'Angleterre; aussitôt que les Messieurs de cette ville
    ont été avertis de votre intention de passer par cette ville-ci, ils
    ont été désireux de témoigner leurs très-humbles respects à Monsieur
    le Protecteur et à votre personne en particulier, en suite de quoi{10}
    nous avons reçu commandement de vous venir saluer, et faire à votre
    Excellence la bienvenue en cette ville. Ils sont extrêmement aises
    de l'heureux succès que Dieu vous a donné en votre négociation en
    Suède, et qu'il lui a plu aussi vous donner un bon passage, et
    favoriser votre retour jusqu'en ce lieu, après avoir surmonté
    beaucoup de difficultés, et échappé beaucoup de dangers, et nous
    prions sa Divine bonté qu'il vous rende en sauveté dans votre pays.
    Nous sommes aussi commandés de reconnaître les faveurs que
    Monseigneur le Protecteur d'une si grande République a faites à
    notre ville et aux habitans d'icelle, et particulièrement durant la
    guerre entre l'Angleterre et les Pays Bas, en libérant et
    déchargeant nos navires. Nous souhaitons à ce fleurissant état la
    continuation et l'accroissement de la faveur Divine pour leur
    conservation et accroissement de plus en plus, et nous espérons que
    Monseigneur le Protecteur continuera avec la République ses faveurs
    envers notre ville, qui sera toujours prête de leur rendre tous
    offices et humbles respects."

After a little recollection, Whitelocke answered in French to the Senator's speech thus:--

    "Messieurs, j'ai grande occasion de louer le nom de Dieu, de sa
    protection de moi et de ma suite, en notre long et périlleux voyage,
    et pour l'heureux succès qu'il m'a donné en ma négociation, et ma
    sauve arrivée en ce lieu, en mon retour en mon pays. Je vous désire
    de remercier Messeigneurs les Sénateurs de cette ville du respect
    qu'ils ont témoigné envers sa Sérénissime Altesse mon maître et la
    République d'Angleterre, par l'honneur qu'ils ont fait à leur
    serviteur, de quoi je ne manquerai d'en informer: j'avais grande
    envie de voir cette illustre ville, et mes compatriotes qui par
    accord vivent ici, desquels j'ai appris avec beaucoup de
    contentement que leurs priviléges ici étaient maintenus par
    Messeigneurs les magistrats, lesquels je désire d'être informés que
    son Altesse mon maître prendra en fort bon part le respect et la
    justice qu'on fera aux Anglais qui se trouvent ici, chose que je
    croie tournera en avantage aux uns et aux autres. Je vous rends
    grâces aussi de vos bons souhaits pour la prospérité de notre
    nation, à laquelle Dieu a donné tant de preuves de sa présence, et
    je prie le même Dieu aussi pour l'heureux succès de cette ville, et
    de tous les habitans d'icelle."

After Whitelocke had done, the Senator again spake to him, desiring him, in the name of the
Lords of the town, to accept a small present which they had sent, in testimony of their respects
towards him, and said that it was somewhat for his kitchen and somewhat for his cellar. The
present which they sent for his kitchen, and was laid upon the pavement in the hall, was this:--four
great whole sturgeons, two great fresh salmons, one calf, two sheep, two lambs. The present
for the cellar was a hogshead of Spanish wine, a hogshead of claret wine, a hogshead of Rhenish
wine, a hogshead of Hamburg beer, a hogshead of Serbster beer. Whitelocke ordered the men that
brought this present to be rewarded with ten rix-dollars. He desired the senators to return
his hearty thanks to the Lords for the noble present which they sent him; and after many compliments
and ceremonies Whitelocke, giving the Senators the right hand, conducted them to their coach,
and so they parted.

The English company entertained, with a great supper, Whitelocke and his company, who had more
mind to sleep than to eat. Monsieur Hannibal Schestedt, late Viceroy of Norway, sent a gentleman
to Whitelocke to know what time he would appoint for him to come and visit Whitelocke, who
gave the usual answer, that whensoever he pleased to come he should be welcome.

June 11, 1654.

[SN: Divine service at Hamburg.]

The Lord's Day.--The English company and the Resident Bradshaw desired Whitelocke that one
of his chaplains might preach in the chapel belonging to the English in their house, which
they said was a respect to the Ambassador of England; and accordingly Mr. Ingelo preached in
the morning, and a very pertinent and good sermon. The doctor, minister to the company here,
preached in the afternoon, who far exceeded Mr. Ingelo in the strength of his voice and lungs,
the which was not necessary for that chapel, not being large, but convenient and handsomely
made up with pews and seats fit for their company.

June 12, 1654.

[SN: Interview with the Swedish Envoy to the Emperor.]

The Resident sent to the Governor to inform him that Whitelocke had a desire to see the fortifications
of the town. He answered that he would send one of his lieutenants to wait on Whitelocke for
that purpose; but Whitelocke and the Resident took this for no great compliment that himself
came not to Whitelocke. Much company did Whitelocke the honour to dine with him; and after
dinner Monsieur Bernelow, who was Ambassador from the Queen of Sweden to the Emperor, and was
now upon his return home, came to visit Whitelocke, and they had this discourse in Latin.

Bernelow. I desire your Excellence to excuse me that I cannot express myself in French or Italian,
but, with your leave, I desire to speak to you in Latin.

Whitelocke. Your Excellence is welcome to me; and if you choose to express yourself in Latin,
you have your liberty, and I shall understand something of it.

Bern. When I heard of your Excellence's arrival in this city, though I purposed to have gone
from hence, yet I deferred my journey, to the end I might see you, because I have heard in
the Emperor's Court, as well by letters from her Most Serene Majesty of Sweden as from the
Chancellor and other senators of that kingdom, what great satisfaction they had in the English
Ambassador, etc. Now the league of friendship being concluded between the two nations, I hold
myself obliged to make this salutation to your Excellence.

Wh. I have very many thanks to return to your Excellence for the honour you have done me by
this visit, and for these expressions of affection and respect to the Protector, my master.
I do acknowledge myself much engaged to the Ricks-Chancellor and senators of Sweden, and in
the first place to her Majesty the Queen, for their favourable respect towards me whilst I
was in my negotiation with them, whom I found full of honour, wisdom, and justice, in their
transactions with me.

Bern. I have been for some time in the service of the Queen, my mistress, in Germany.

Wh. You met some of my countrymen in the Court of the Emperor, particularly a noble lord, whom
I have the honour to know.

Bern. I met there the Earl of Rochester, who was at the Diet at Ratisbon.

Wh. What proposals did he make there?

Bern. He made a kind of precarious proposal in the name of the King, his master.

Wh. Did he obtain what he desired?

Bern. He did not much prevail in it, only he obtained a verbal promise of some money, but had
no performance.

Wh. What occasion hath drawn your General Koningsmark with his forces at this time before Bremen?

Bern. It was thus by mistake occasioned. The Earl of Lüneburg had covenanted with the Spanish
Ambassador to levy some soldiers for the service of the King of Spain, which levies he began
without acquainting the Governor of that Circle with it, who taking this occasion, and bearing
ill-will to the Earl, drew out some forces to oppose those levies. Koningsmark understanding
this, and jealous that the Governor of the Circle designed to fall upon the fort of the Queen
of Sweden in those parts, he drew out some forces to oppose the Governor. Those of Bremen,
being informed that Koningsmark drew out his forces against them, sent some troops, who forced
the Queen's subjects to a contribution and built a fort upon the Queen's land, which coming
to the knowledge of Koningsmark, and that the Governor of the Circle of Westphalia intended
only to suppress the levies of the Duke of Lüneburg, and not to oppose the Queen of Sweden,
Koningsmark thereupon marched with his forces to the new fort built by those of Bremen, took
it in and finished it, and left there a garrison for the Queen, not disturbing the trade of
that city.

Wh. Here were mistakes one upon another, which might have engaged that city and the neighbours,
as well as the Crown of Sweden, in a troublesome war.

Bern. All is now peaceable and well again.

They had much other discourse touching the right of the Crown of Sweden to the Duchy of Bremen;
and after many compliments, the Ambassador took his leave.

[SN: Whitelocke visits the fortifications of Hamburg.]

About four o'clock in the afternoon the senator Holtz and an ancient gentleman, one of the
captains of the town forces, came and accompanied Whitelocke, to show him the town and the
fortifications of it, and said that the Lords had commanded them to do him this service. Whitelocke
went out with them in his usual equipage, his gentlemen walking before the coach, his pages
and lacqueys by it, all bareheaded, and with their swords. They viewed most parts of the city,
the streets, buildings, public-houses, churches, the arsenal, the fortifications, the ships,
the waters, rivers, and what was remarkable throughout the town. Great multitudes of people,
especially at their Exchange, came forth to see them as they passed by, and all were very civil
to them. To the works a great many of people also followed them, and continued there with them.

They brought him first to see their arsenal, which is a large house; in the lower rooms thereof
lay about two hundred pieces of ordnance mounted on good carriages, fitted and useful. They
were not founded in this place, but brought from other parts; two of them were double cannon,
each carrying a bullet of forty-eight pounds weight; most of the others were demi-cannon and
culverin. There were besides these many smaller pieces and divers mortar-pieces, some of which
were near as large in the diameter as that at Stockholm. In another place were many shells
of grenades and heaps of cannon-bullets. The pavement of the room was all lead, two feet deep,
in a readiness to make musket bullets if there should be occasion. In the rooms above were
arms for horse and foot, completely fixed and kept; the greatest part of them were muskets.
Between every division of the arms were representations in painting of soldiers doing their
postures, and of some on horseback. Here were many cuirasses and a great quantity of corselets,
swords, bandoliers, pistols, and bullets. Here likewise hung certain old targets, for monuments
rather than use, and many engines of war; as, a screw to force open a gate, an instrument like
a jack, with wheels to carry match for certain hours' space, and just at the set time to give
fire to a mine, petard, or the like. There were, in all, arms for about fifteen hundred horse
and fifteen thousand foot. They keep a garrison constantly in pay of twelve hundred soldiers,
and they have forty companies of their citizens, two hundred in each company, proper men; whose
interest of wives, children, estate, and all, make them the best magazine and defence (under
God) for those comforts which are most dear to them.

Some pains were taken by Whitelocke to view their fortifications, which are large, of about
two German (ten English) miles in compass; they are very regular and well kept. Within the
grafts are hedges of thorn, kept low and cut, held by them of better use than palisades. The
bulwarks are of an extraordinary greatness; upon every third bulwark is a house for the guards,
and they are there placed. There is also a building of brick, a great way within the ground
upon the bulwark, and separate by itself, where they keep all their gunpowder; so that if by
any mischance or wicked design it should blow up, yet it could do no hurt to the town, being
so separated from it. On every bulwark there is space enough to draw up and muster a thousand
men; beyond the grafts are divers half-moons, very regularly made. The grafts are broad and
deep, filled with the Elbe on the one side, and with another smaller river on the other side.

The works are stronger, larger, and more regular than those at Lübeck. Above the works is a
piece of ground of above five hundred yards of low ground, gained by industry from the Elbe;
here they have mills to keep out or let in more or less water, as they find useful for the
town and works. The lines of one side of the works are higher than on the other side, and the
works better and stronger made. Here are also mounds of earth raised very high to command without;
there wanted no pains nor expense to put together so great a mass of earth as is in these fortifications.
Upon every bulwark is mounted one demi-cannon, besides other great guns; in other places are
smaller pieces. Round about the works are great store of ordnance, well fitted, mounted, and
kept; and the platforms are strong and well planked.

Having made a large tour through the greatest part of the city, Whitelocke found it to be pleasantly
situated in a plain low country, fertile and delightful, also healthful and advantageous for
trade; and notwithstanding the great quantity of waters on every side of it, yet the inhabitants
do not complain of agues or other sicknesses to be more rife among them than in other parts.

Upon one side is a small river, the which comes a great way down the country to this town,
where it loseth itself in the Elbe, having first supplied the city with wood and other provisions
brought down hither by boats, for which this river, though narrow, is deep enough and navigable.
On the other side of the town is the stately river of Elbe, one of the chief of these parts
of Germany, which also by boats brings down out of the country great store of all sorts of
provisions and merchantable commodities; and which is much more advantage to them, affords
a passage for merchants hither, and from hence to vent their merchandises to all parts of the
world. It is the best neighbour they have, and the branches and arms of it run through most
of their streets by their doors, to the great advantage of their commerce; and although sometimes,
upon an extraordinary rising of the Elbe to a great flood, these branches of it cover the lower
rooms of the houses near them, to the damage of some owners, yet it makes amends by the constant
benefit which it brings with it. The buildings here are all of brick, only some few of brick
and timber put together, and are generally fashioned and used as is before described touching
the Lübeck houses.

The district or territory belonging to the town is in some places two, in others three, in
some more, German miles distant from the city, in which precinct they have the jurisdiction
and revenue; and near the town are many pleasant little houses and seats, with gardens and
accommodations, belonging to the citizens, to refresh themselves and their wives and children
in the summer-time, to take the fresh country air, and to have a diversion for their health
and pleasure. It may be said of this town, that God hath withheld nothing from them for their
good. They have plenty of provisions, health, profit, and pleasure, to their full contentment,
in a peaceable and just government, with freedom, strength in their magazines, fortifications,
and bodies of men for their defence and protection, conveniences for their habitation and commerce,
and, which is above all, a liberty to know the will of and to worship God, for the health of
their own souls.

June 13, 1654.

[SN: The Diet of Germany.]

This morning Whitelocke returned a visit to the Swedes' Ambassador, Bernelow, at his lodging,
where he learnt of him the manner of the sitting of the General Diet of Germany, at which he
was present:--That they have three colleges or chambers: the first is the College of the Electors,
where they only assemble; the second is the College of the Princes, where the Archbishops,
Bishops, Dukes, Graves, and Barons meet, to the number of about one hundred and forty; the
third is the College of the Free Cities, where their Deputies, about two hundred, do meet.
When they consult, the Chancellor of the Empire, the Archbishop of Mentz, sends the proposal
in writing to each college severally. When they are respectively agreed, then all the colleges
meet together in the great hall, at the upper end whereof is a chair of state for the Emperor.
On the right-hand of the chair the Electors sit, on the left-hand the principal officers of
the Emperor's court; on the right side of the hall, upon seats, are the Ecclesiastic Princes,
Bishops, and Abbots; on the left-hand are the Temporal Princes, upon their seats; and on the
seats below, one before another, are the Deputies of the towns.

The Archbishop of Mentz, as Marshal of the College of the Electors, begins and reads the proposal,
and the resolution thereupon in writing of that college; after him, the Marshal of the College
of the Princes doth the like; and lastly, the Marshal of the College of the Free Towns, who
is always the chief magistrate of the place where the Diet sits. If the resolution of the three
colleges agrees, or of the College of the Electors and one other of the colleges, the business
is determined accordingly; if the colleges do not thus agree, then they meet all together and
debate the matter; whereupon, if they come not to an accord, the business is remitted to another
day, or the suffrage of the Emperor decides it.

Whitelocke asked him, whether the advice of the Diet, being the supreme public council, were
binding to the Emperor. He said, that the Emperor seldom did anything contrary to that advice,
but held himself bound in prudence, if not in duty, to conform thereunto. Whitelocke asked
him what opinion they had in the Emperor's court of the present King of Sweden. He answered,
as was expected, and most true, that they have a great opinion of the King, especially for
military affairs. Upon Whitelocke's invitation, he did him the honour to dine with him, and
they had much and good discourse together.

[SN: Visit of M. Woolfeldt's brother-in-law.]

In the afternoon Whitelocke received a visit from Monsieur Hannibal Schestedt, whose wife was
sister to Woolfeldt's lady, one of the daughters of the late King of Denmark by his second
wife,--as they term it, his left-handed wife; this relation, and his own good parts, brought
him in high esteem with the King, his brother-in-law, till by jealousies (particularly, as
was said, in some matters of mistresses), distaste and disfavour was against him, and he was
put out of his office of Viceroy of Norway, and other advantages; upon which he retired himself
into these parts, and lived upon a pension of six thousand dollars yearly, allowed by the King
unto his lady. Whitelocke found him a gentleman of excellent behaviour and abilities, which
he had improved by his travels in most countries of Europe, and had gained perfectly the French,
Italian, Dutch, English, and Latin tongues. His discourse was full of ingenuity and cheerfulness,
and very free touching his own country and King, on whom he would somewhat reflect; and he
spoke much of the Queen of Sweden's resignation, which he much condemned, and as much extolled
the assuming of the Government by the Protector of England, and said he had a design shortly
to see England, and desired Whitelocke, that when he came into England he would move to the
Protector to give him leave to come into England to serve the Protector, which he would willingly
do, being forbid his own country; but he prayed Whitelocke, that none might know of this his
purpose but the Protector only. He told Whitelocke, that Williamson, the King of Denmark's
Ambassador now in England, had been his servant, etc.

When Monsieur Schestedt was gone, Whitelocke wrote to Secretary Thurloe, and to his other friends
in England, to give them an account of his being come thus far in his voyage homewards, and
of the two frigates being arrived in the Elbe, that as soon as the wind would serve he would
hasten for England.

[SN: A banquet to Whitelocke.]

The Resident invited Whitelocke and several Senators to a collation this evening, whither came
the four Burgomasters, and five other Senators; a thing unusual for so many of them to meet
a foreign public minister, the custom being in such case to depute two or three of their body,
and no more; but they were willing to do more than ordinary honour to Whitelocke. And of these
nine Senators every one spoke French or Latin, and some both, a thing rare enough for aldermen
of a town; but the reason of it was given, because here, for the most part, they choose into
those places doctors and licentiates of the laws, which employments they willingly accept,
being for life, attended with great authority, and a salary of a thousand crowns yearly, besides
other profits. They had a banquet and store of wine; and the Senators discoursed much with
Whitelocke touching England, and the successes of the Parliament party, and the many thanksgivings
for them; of which they had heard with admiration, and commended the return of thanks to God.

Upon this occasion, Whitelocke gave them an account of many particulars, and of God's goodness
to them, and exhorted these gentlemen, in all their affairs, to put their trust in God, to
be thankful for his mercies, and not to do anything contrary to his will. They asked how the
Parliament could get money enough to pay their forces. Whitelocke told them that the people
afforded money sufficient to defray the public charges both by sea and land; and that no soldiers
were paid and disciplined, nor officers better rewarded, than those who have served the Parliament.

Whitelocke asked them concerning the religion professed among them, and of their government
and trade, wherein they gave him good information; and he told them he hoped that the agreement
made by this city with the merchants, his countrymen, would be carefully observed, and the
privileges accorded to them be continued, which would be acceptable to the Protector. They
answered, that they had been very careful, and should be so still, that on their part the agreement
should be exactly observed. They desired Whitelocke to speak to the Protector in favour of
a ship belonging to this town, in which were some moneys belonging to Hollanders, and taken
by the English two years since. Whitelocke promised to move the Protector in it, and assured
them that his Highness would cause right to be done to them.

At this collation Whitelocke ate very little, and drank only one glass of Spanish wine, and
one glass of small beer, which was given him by a stranger, whom he never saw before nor after,
and the beer seemed at that instant to be of a very bad taste and colour; nor would he inquire
what it was, his own servants being taken forth by the Resident's people in courtesy to entertain
them.[371] After he came to his lodging he was taken very ill, and grew worse and worse, extreme
sick, with pains like the strokes of daggers, which put him in mind of a former passage; and
his torment was so great that it was scarcely to be endured, the most violent that he ever felt.

He was not well after his journey from Lübeck to Hamburg, having been extremely jolted in the
coach in that way full of holes and sloughs, made by their great carriages in time of the war,
and not yet amended: his weariness when he came to Hamburg reprieved his pain, which highly
increased this evening; and the last of his ill beer still remained with him.

June 14, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke's indisposition.]

The fierce torment continued on Whitelocke above thirteen hours together without intermission.
About four o'clock this morning his secretary Earle was called to him, who waited on him with
care and sadness to see his torment; nature helped, by vomits and otherwise, to give some ease,
but the sharpness of his pain continued. About five o'clock this morning Dr. Whistler was called
to him, who gave him several sorts of physic, and amongst the rest a drink with a powder and
a great quantity of oil of sweet almonds, suspecting, by the manner of his sickness and some
of the symptoms, that he might have had poison given him, which was the jealousy of most about
him; and whether it were so or not the Lord only knows, who nevertheless in his goodness preserved
Whitelocke, and blessed the means for his recovery. The drink working contrary to what was
intended, and turning to a vomit, the doctor, perceiving the operation of nature to be that
way, followed by giving of vomits, which within two hours gave some ease and brought him to
a little slumber, and in a few hours after to recovery. Thus it pleased God to exercise him,
and to cast him down for a little time; and when he had no expectation but of present death
in a strange land, God was pleased suddenly, and above imagination, to restore and recover
him; the which, and all other the mercies of God, he prays may, by him and his, be thankfully
remembered.

A doctor of physic, a Jew in this town, hearing of Whitelocke's being sick, came to his lodging,
and meeting with Dr. Whistler, told him in Latin, that, understanding the English Ambassador
to be dangerously sick, and to have no physician about him but a young inexperienced man, therefore
this Jew came to offer his service. Dr. Whistler, smiling, told Whitelocke of this rencounter,
who presently sent his thanks and discharge to the Jewish doctor. Several Senators came and
sent to inquire of Whitelocke's health, and to know if he wanted anything in their power to
supply him for his recovery, and offered the physicians of the town to wait upon him. He returned
thanks, but kept himself to the advice and care of his own doctor, whose endeavours it pleased
God to bless, so that in two days Whitelocke was abroad again.

[SN: Feast given by the English Company.]

The English Company had invited divers to bear Whitelocke company at dinner this day, where
they had a very great feast, and present at it the four Burgomasters and ten Senators. So many
of that number had scarce been seen at any former entertainment; which though purposely made
to do Whitelocke honour, yet his sickness had brought him to an incapacity of bearing them
company; but whilst they were at the table, Whitelocke sent his secretary to the Resident,
praying him to make his apology to the Lords, that extremity of sickness the night before had
prevented him of the honour of accompanying them at this meeting; that being now somewhat recovered,
he sent now to present his hearty thanks to their lordships for this great favour they had
done him, wished them all health, and entreated them to be cheerful. The Lords returned thanks
to Whitelocke for his civility, and about an hour after the Resident came to Whitelocke from
the Lords to see how he did, to thank him for his compliment, and to know if, without inconvenience,
they might be admitted to come to his chamber to see him. Whitelocke said he should be glad
to see them, but privately told the Resident that he hoped they would not stay long with him
by reason of his indisposition.

The Senators sat at the table from twelve o'clock at noon till six o'clock in the evening,
according to the fashion of Dutchland, and were very merry, wanting no good meat or wine, nor
sparing it. About six o'clock they rose from dinner, and came to Whitelocke's chamber to visit
him, with many compliments, expressing their sorrow for his sickness, their wishes for his
health, and offers of anything in their power which might contribute to his recovery. Whitelocke
used them with all civility, and heartily thanked them for this extraordinary honour they had
done him, by so many of their lordships affording him the favour of meeting at this place,
and excused by his violent sickness his not bearing them company. After many compliments and
a short stay they left his chamber, praying for the recovery of his health again.

Among this company of fourteen senators were no young men, but all grave and comely persons;
and every one of them did particularly speak to Whitelocke, either in French or Latin, and
some in both, which were hard to be met with in so many aldermen of towns in other countries.
Divers of them staid in the English house till nine o'clock at night, making a very long repast
of nine hours together; but it was to testify the more particular respect and honour to the
English Ambassador, and is according to the usage of these parts, where, at such public entertainments,
they eat and drink heartily, and seldom part in less than ten or twelve hours, cheerfully conversing
together. Whitelocke took great contentment in the civility and respects of these and other
gentlemen to him in this place, and in the affection, care, and attendance of his children,
friends, and servants, about him in his sickness.

June 15, 1654.

[SN: The ecclesiastical state of Hamburg.]

The Lords sent a gentleman to inquire of Whitelocke's health, with compliments as before. He
took some physic, yet admitted visits and discourse, from which, and those he formerly had
with Senators and others, he learned that as to matter of religion they are here very strict
to maintain a unity thereof, being of Plutarch's opinion, that "varietas religionis, dissolutio
religionis;" and they permit no other religion to be publicly exercised by their own citizens
among them but what in their government they do profess, which is according to the Augsburg
confession; and Luther's opinions do wholly take place among them, insomuch that the exercise
of religion in any other form or way is not admitted, except to the English Company of Merchants
in the chapel of their house, and that by stipulation. Thus every one who differs from them
in matters of religion must keep his opinion to himself, without occasioning any disturbance
to the Government by practice or publication of such different opinion; and although many are
inclined to the tenets of Calvin, yet their public profession is wholly Lutheran; answerable
whereunto Whitelocke observed in their churches many images, crucifixes, and the like (not
far removed from the practice of the Popish churches); particularly in their great church,
which is fair and large, built with brick, are many images, rare tablets of painting, crucifixes,
and a perspective of curious workmanship in colours. Their liturgy (as ours in England was)
is extracted from the old Mass-book, and their divine service celebrated with much ceremony,
music, and outward reverence. Their ministers are pensioners, but, as themselves affirm, liberally
dealt with, and have bountiful allowances if they are holy men and good preachers; whereof
they much satisfy themselves that they are very well provided in this city, to the comfort
and blessing of the inhabitants.

[SN: The trade of Hamburg.]

Touching the trade of this place, Whitelocke learnt that as they are very populous, so few
are suffered in idleness, but employed in some way or other of trading, either as merchants,
artificers, shopkeepers, or workmen. They have an exchange here, though not a fair one, where
they daily meet and confer about their affairs and contracts.

The several branches and arms of the river Elbe, which pass along by their houses, afford them
the better means and advantages for bringing in and carrying forth their commodities. There
is a partition between the old and the new town; the old is but a small part of it, and few
merchants reside there. The ships of greatest burden come up within two miles of the city;
the lesser ships, whereof there be a great number, and the great boats, come up within the
town to the very doors of their houses, by the branches of the Elbe, to the great advantage
of their trading.

This city is much greater than Lübeck, fuller of trade and wealth, and better situated for
commerce, being nearer to England, the Netherlands, France, Spain, and all the southern and
western parts; and they are not to pass the Sound in coming home again. The staple of English
cloth is here, and the cloths being brought hither for the most part white, it sets on work
many hundreds of their people to dress and dye and fit them; and the inhabitants of all Germany
and other countries do send and buy their cloth here. At this time of Whitelocke's being here,
there lay in the Elbe four English ships which brought cloth hither; one of them carried twenty-five
pieces of ordnance, the least fifteen, all of good force; and the English cloth at this time
in them was estimated to be worth £200,000 sterling.

In consideration of this trade and the staple of English cloth settled here, which brings wealth
to this city, the Government here hath granted great privileges to the English merchants residing
in this place, and they are part of the company or corporation of Merchant Adventurers of England,--an
ancient and honourable society, of which Whitelocke had the favour honorarily to be here admitted
a member.

June 16, 1654.

[SN: The judicial institutions of Hamburg.]

Whitelocke, being, through the goodness of God, well recovered of his distemper, went abroad
this day, and was shown the Town-house, which is a fair and handsome building, of the like
fashion, but more large and beautiful, than that at Lübeck, and much better furnished. Here
are many chambers for public councils and tribunals; some of them have their pillars covered
with copper, and pavements of Italian marble; they have also rich hangings, and chairs of velvet,
blue, and green, and rare pictures. The Chamber of Audience, as they call it, is the court
of justice, where the Right-herrs, who are in the nature of sheriffs, do sit to despatch and
determine the causes of the citizens; and if the cause exceed the value of a hundred dollars,
an appeal lies to the Senate, as it doth also in all causes criminal.

From the Senate there is no appeal in cases of obligations, letters of exchange, contracts,
debts, and matters of merchandise, but therein a speedy remedy is given for the advantage of
trade; but in all other cases, where the value exceeds a thousand dollars, and in all causes
capital, an appeal lies to the Imperial Chamber: and in the judicatories of the city, the proceedings
are according to the municipal laws and customs thereof, which nevertheless have great affinity
with the Imperial civil laws, especially in the forms and manner of proceedings; and in cases
where the municipal laws and customs are defective, there the proceedings are according to
the civil law. They do not proceed by juries of twelve men to try the fact; but the parties
contending are heard on both sides, either in person or by their advocates or proctors, as
they please, and the witnesses on either side are examined upon oath; after which, the judges
taking serious consideration of the whole matter and of all circumstances and proofs therein,
at a set time they pronounce their sentence; and commonly the whole process and business is
determined in the space of three weeks, except in cases where an appeal is brought. The judges
sit in court usually twice in every week, unless in festival times, when they keep vacations,
and with them their holidays are not juridical: their equal and speedy administration of justice
is commended both by their own people and by strangers who have occasion to make trial of it.

[SN: Municipal Government of Hamburg.]

Their public government, by which their peace is preserved, disorders restrained, and men kept
from being wolves to one another, makes them the more to flourish, and consists of four Consuls
or Burgomasters and twenty other Senators, of whom twelve were called Overholts, and the other
twelve Ricks-herrs. Upon the death or removal of any Senator, the choice of a new one is with
the rest of the Senators. The choice of the Overholts is by the people, and they are as tribunes
of the people; they have power to control the Senate through the supreme magistracy, but they
do it with all respect and tenderness, and no new law is made nor tax imposed without their
consent. But the execution of the present laws, and the government of the people, and the last
appeal in the city, is left unto the Senate; as also negotiations with foreigners, the entertainments
and ceremonies with strangers, and generally the care of the safety of their State.

In cases of extraordinary concernment, as of war and peace, levying of money, making of new
laws, and matters of extraordinary weight and consideration, of which the Senate are not willing
to take the burden wholly upon themselves, or to undergo the envy or hazard of the consequences
thereof; in such cases the Senate causeth the Overholt to be assembled, and, as the weight
of the business may be, sometimes they cause to be summoned an assembly of the whole body of
the burgesses of the city, before whom the business in the general is propounded, and they
are desired by the Senate to make choice of some deputies, to be joined to the Senate and to
assist them in the matters proposed. Then the whole body of the freemen do commonly make choice
of eight, sometimes more and sometimes fewer, as they please, out of their own number, and
these deputies have full power given to them by this assembly to despatch and determine, together
with the Senate and the Overholt, their matters thus proposed to the general consideration
of that public assembly; and what this Council thus constituted do resolve in these matters,
the same is put in execution accordingly, obligeth, and is freely submitted unto by all the
citizens, who look upon themselves by this their election of deputies to have their own consents
involved in what their deputies determine.

In the evening Mr. Stetkin, with whom Whitelocke had been acquainted in England, when he was
there, a servant of the late King for his private music, wherein he was excellent, came to
Whitelocke, and with Maylard, one of Whitelocke's servants, made very good music for his diversion.

This day the wind came about reasonable good for Whitelocke's voyage, who thereupon ordered
the captains away to their frigates and his people to prepare all things in readiness for his
departure tomorrow; his baggage was carried down and put on board the frigates. He gave his
most hearty and solemn thanks to the Resident, and to all the gentleman of the English Company
of Merchants here, who had very nobly and affectionately entertained Whitelocke at their own
charge all the time of his being in this city. He ordered his gratuities to be distributed
among their servants and to all who had done any service or offices for him, both of the English
house and of the townsmen, and ordered all things to be in readiness to proceed in his voyage.

June 17, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke takes leave of the Senate.]

The baggage and inferior servants of Whitelocke being gone down before unto the frigates, and
the wind being indifferent good, Whitelocke resolved this day to set forwards in his voyage,
and to endeavour, if he could, before night to reach the frigates, which did attend his coming
in the Elbe about Glückstadt. The Resident had provided boats for Whitelocke and his company
to go down unto the frigates, and had given notice to some of the Senators of Whitelocke's
intention to remove this day; whereupon Monsieur Müller, the chief Burgomaster of the town,
came to Whitelocke's lodging in the morning to visit him and to inquire of his health, as one
that bare a particular respect to him, and was now come to take his leave of him. He was a
wise and sober man, and of good conversation, and testified much respect to the Protector and
Commonwealth of England, and much honour to Whitelocke in particular. Whilst he was with Whitelocke,
the two Senators who came first to Whitelocke to bid him welcome hither, came now also to him
from the Senate, to bid him farewell. The elder of them spake to Whitelocke to this effect:--

    "My Lord Ambassador,

    "The Senate hath commanded us in their name to salute your
    Excellence, and to give you thanks for taking in good part the small
    testimonies of their respect towards you, which they are ashamed
    were no better, and entreat your pardon for it.

    "They understand that your Excellence is upon your departure from
    this town, which gives them great cause of sadness, as they had of
    joy at your arrival here; but since it is your good pleasure, and
    your great affairs oblige you to depart, all that we can do is to
    pray to God for your safe arrival in your own country, and we doubt
    not but that the same God who hath hitherto preserved you in a long
    and perilous voyage, will continue his goodness to you in the
    remainder of your journey.

    "We have a humble request to make to your Excellence, that you will
    give us leave to recommend our town to your patronage, and that you
    would be pleased to peruse these papers, which concern some of our
    citizens; and that your Excellence will be a means to my Lord
    Protector and to the Court of Admiralty, that justice and favour may
    be shown to them."

As this gentleman spake of the testimonies of respect from this city to Whitelocke, he looked
back to the table, upon which stood a piece of plate covered with sarsenet. A little after
the Senator had done speaking, Whitelocke answered him to this purpose:--

    "Gentlemen,

    "I have cause to acknowledge that God hath been very good and
    gracious to me, and to all my company, throughout our whole voyage
    unto this place; for which we desire to bless His name, and hope
    that He will be pleased to continue His goodness to us in the rest
    of our journey. I desire you to return my hearty thanks to my Lords
    the Senators, who have honoured me with their very great respects
    during the whole time of my being with them, and have bestowed noble
    testimonies thereof upon me. I shall not fail to inform the
    Protector, my master, hereof, to whom, and to the Commonwealth of
    England, this respect is given in my person.

    "I have received much contentment in my being here, not only by the
    sight of so fair and flourishing a city as this is, so well
    fortified, and manned, and traded, and governed, but in your
    civilities, and the honour I have had to be acquainted with your
    worthy magistrates. And I have had a singular satisfaction to
    understand from my countrymen living amongst you that their
    privileges are by you entirely continued to them, which I recommend
    to you as a thing most acceptable to my Lord Protector, who takes
    care of the whole Commonwealth, and will expect that I give him an
    account of what concerns the English merchants and their commerce in
    this place. The wind being now good, I am obliged, according to the
    commands of the Protector, my master, forthwith to return for
    England, and do resolve this day to proceed in my voyage towards my
    ships. I hope my God will conduct me in safety to the place where I
    would be, and where I shall have the opportunity to testify my
    gratitude to the Lords and people of this city, and to take care of
    those affairs wherein they may be concerned, which I esteem as an
    honour to me."

[SN: Presents of the Senate.]

After Whitelocke had done speaking, the Senators, with the accustomed ceremonies, took their
leaves of him. The piece of plate which they now presented to him was a vessel of silver, like
a little cabinet, wrought with bosses of beautiful figures, curious and rich, of the value,
as some prized it, of about £150 sterling. Whitelocke was somewhat surprised with this present
of plate, and doubtful whether he should accept it or not; but considering that it was only
a testimony of their respects to the Protector; and as to Whitelocke, he was not capable of
doing them service or prejudice, but as their affairs should deserve; and if he should refuse
this present, it would be ill taken by the Lords. Upon these considerations, and the advice
of the Resident and other friends, Whitelocke took it, and returned his hearty thanks for it.

Another Senator, one Monsieur Samuel, hearing that Whitelocke had a little son at home, sent
him a little horse for a present, the least that one hath seen, yet very handsome, and managed
to the great saddle, which Whitelocke brought home with him; so full of civility and courtesy
were the magistrates of this place.

After much difficulty to get away, and the earnest request of the Resident and English merchants
to the contrary, entreating him to stay longer, yet Whitelocke kept his resolution to leave
the town; and boats being in readiness, he went down to the water-side, accompanied with a
great number of his countrymen and his own people, and took his boats to go down the Elbe to
his ships. The Resident and some others went in his boat with him. Vice-Admiral Clerke would
not yet leave him, saying that Wrangel had commanded him to see Whitelocke on board the English
frigates, either for a compliment or desiring to see the frigates, which were so much discoursed
on in these parts, and thereby to be enabled to give an account to Wrangel of the dimensions
and make of them, which he longed to know.

[SN: Whitelocke embarks in boats on the Elbe,]

The boat in which Whitelocke went was large, but not convenient, open, and went only with sails.
The streets, as he passed to the water-side, and the windows, and on the bridges, were full
of people to see him as he went, and gave him courteous salutations at his farewell. In his
own boat he had six trumpets, which sounded all along as he passed through the city and the
haven, which was then very full of ships, and they also very civil to make way for Whitelocke's
boats. Upon the bridges and bulwarks which he went by were guards of soldiers in arms; and
the bulwarks on that side saluted him with all their cannon, about twenty-one pieces, though
they used not to give strangers above two or three guns. Thus Whitelocke parted from this city
of Hamburg, recommending himself and his company to the blessing and protection of the Almighty.

A little below the city they came by a small village called by them All to nah (Altona), that
is, "All too nigh," being the King of Denmark's territory, within half a league, which they
thought too near their city. When they came a little lower, with a sudden strong blast of wind
the boat in which Whitelocke was, was in great danger of being overset; after which it grew
to be a calm; whereupon Whitelocke sent to the English cloth-ships, which lay a little below,
to lend him some of their ship-boats and mariners with oars, to make better way than his boat
with sails could do. This they did readily; and as Whitelocke passed by them, they all saluted
him with their cannon.

[SN: but lands at Stadt.]

Having changed their boats and discharged the great ones, they went more cheerfully down the
river till they came within half a league of the town of Stadt; when being almost dark, and
the mariners not accustomed to the river out of the channel, the boat in which Whitelocke was,
struck upon the sand, and was fast there. Presently the English mariners, seven or eight of
them, leaped out of the boat into the river, "up to their chins, and by strength removed the
boat from off the sands again; and they came to their oars again, within an English mile of
Stadt, when it was very late, and the boats were two German miles from the frigates, and the
tide turning. Whitelocke thought it impossible to reach his ships this night, and not prudent
to proceed with unexperienced men upon this dangerous river by night; and understanding by
General Potley, and one of the trumpets who had been formerly here, of a house upon the river
that goes to Stadt, within a quarter of a mile of the place where they now were, Whitelocke
ordered the mariners to make to that house, who, with much difficulty, found out the mouth
of the river; but for want of water, being low tide, they had much trouble to get the boat
up to the cruise, or in there. The master of the house had been a soldier and a cook; he prepared
a supper for them of salt eels, salt salmon, and a little poultry, which was made better by
the meat and wine that the Resident brought with him; yet all little enough when the rest of
Whitelocke's company, in three other boats, came to the same house, though they could not know
of Whitelocke being there; but he was very ill himself, and this was a bad quarter for him,
who had been so lately very sick at Hamburg; yet he contented himself without going to bed.
His sons and company had some fresh straw, and God in his wonted mercy still preserved him
and his company. The host sent word to his General, Koningsmark, that the English Ambassador
was at his house this night.

June 18, 1654.

[SN: Embarks in the President.]

Whitelocke resolved to remove from the cruise early this morning, and the rather because he
was informed that Koningsmark intended to come hither this morning to visit him, which Whitelocke
did not desire, in regard of the late accident at Bremen, where Koningsmark was governor, and
that his conferring with him, upon his immediate return from Sweden, might give some jealousy
to those of Bremen, or to the Hanse Towns, or some of the German Princes thereabouts. Whitelocke
therefore held it best to take no notice of Koningsmark's intention to come and visit him,
but to avoid that meeting by going early from hence this morning; which he had the more reason
to do because of his bad entertainment here, and for that the tide served betimes this morning
to get out of this river. He therefore caused his people to make ready about two o'clock this
morning, and took boat within an hour after, the weather being very fair and the country pleasant.
On the right-hand was Holstein, on the left-hand was the Duchy of Lüneburg, and below that
the Bishopric of Bremen; in which this river comes from Stadt near unto Bremen, more considerable
heretofore when it was the staple for the English cloth, but left by our merchants many years
since, partly because they held themselves not well treated by the inhabitants of Stadt, and
partly by the inconvenientness of this river to bring up their cloth to that town.

Two miles from this cruise Whitelocke came to the frigates, where they lay at anchor. He himself
went on board the 'President,' who, at his entry, saluted him with above forty guns, the 'Elizabeth'
but with twenty-one, and her Captain, Minnes, came on board to Whitelocke to excuse it, because,
not knowing Whitelocke's time of coming hither, he had no more guns ready to bid him welcome.

[SN: Glückstadt.]

Right against the frigates lay the fort and town of Glückstadt, that is Luckystadt, or Lucky
Town. Whitelocke being desirous to take a view of it and of the fortifications, and his baggage
not being yet come to the frigates, he with the Resident and several others went over in one
of the ship's boats to see it. The town is situate in a marsh, having no hill near to command
it. The fortifications about it are old, yet in good repair. It belongs to the King of Denmark,
as Duke of Holstein, and he keeps a garrison there at the mouth of a river running into the
Elbe, like that of Stadt. The late King of Denmark built there a blockhouse in the great river
upon piles, to the end he might command the ships passing that way, but the Elbe being there
above a league in breadth, the ships may well pass notwithstanding that fort.

At Whitelocke's landing in the town, which is about a bow-shot from the mouth of the river,
he sent to acquaint the Governor therewith, and that he desired only to see the town and then
to return to his ships. The Governor sent a civil answer, that he was sorry he could not accompany
Whitelocke, to show him the town, by reason of his being sick, but that he had sent one of
his officers to show him the fortifications, and desired him to command anything in the town;
for which civility Whitelocke returned thanks.

The town is not great nor well-built, but of brick, and some of the houses very fair; chiefly
one which they call the King's house, which might fit an English knight to dwell in. The town
seems decaying, and the fortifications also in some places. The late King designed to have
made this a great town of trade, and by that means to have diminished, if not ruined, his neighbours
the Hamburgers; to whom this King having done some injuries, and endeavouring to build a bridge
over the Elbe near to Hamburg, to hinder the ships coming up thither, and their trade, the
citizens pulled it down again, and came with about twenty vessels to Glückstadt upon a design
against that town; but the King's ships of war being there, the Admiral of Hamburg cut his
anchors and returned home in haste. The King's men got up the anchors, and at this time Whitelocke
saw them hung up in their church as great trophies of a small victory thus easily gained. At
Whitelocke's return, Glückstadt saluted him with three pieces of cannon.

When he was come back to his ships he found all his people and baggage come up to him, whereupon
he resolved to weigh anchor the first opportunity of wind serving, and gave orders accordingly
to his captains. The Resident Bradshaw, Vice-Admiral Clerke, the treasurer and secretary of
the English Company at Hamburg, who accompanied Whitelocke to his ships, now the tide serving,
took their leaves of him, with much respect and wishes of a happy voyage to him; and so they
parted.

The wind came to north-east, flat contrary to Whitelocke's course, and rose high, with violent
storms and much rain, so that it was not possible for Whitelocke to weigh anchor and proceed
in his voyage; but he had cause to thank God that he was in a safe and good harbour.

June 19, 1654.

The wind continued very tempestuous and contrary to Whitelocke's course, so that he could not
budge, but lay still at anchor. The mariners, in their usual way of sporting, endeavoured to
make him some pastime, to divert the tediousness of his stay and of the bad weather. He learned
that at Glückstadt the Hamburgers pay a toll to the King of Denmark, who submit thereunto as
other ships do, rather than enter into a contest or war with that King.

[SN: Whitelocke writes to the Queen of Sweden.]

Whitelocke thought it becoming him in civility and gratitude to give an account by letters
to the Queen of Sweden of his proceeding thus far in his voyage, for which purpose he had written
his letters at Hamburg, and now having too much leisure, he made them up and sent them to Vice-Admiral
Clerke to be presented to the Queen. The letters were to this effect:--

    "A sa Sérénissime Majesté Christine, Reine de Suède.

    "Madame,

    "Les grandes faveurs que j'ai reçues de votre Majesté m'obligent à
    lui rendre compte de ce qui me touche, celui en qui vous avez
    beaucoup d'intérêt. Et puisque par votre faveur, sous Dieu, j'ai
    déjà surmonté les difficultés de la plus grande moitié du voyage que
    j'ai à faire par mer, j'ai pris la hardiesse d'entretenir votre
    Majesté de mon succès jusqu'en ce lieu. Le premier de Juin, le beau
    navire 'Amaranta' nous fit flotter sur la Baltique, et nonobstant
    les calmes, le vent contraire, et un terrible orage qui nous
    exercèrent, par l'adresse de l'Amiral Clerc, du Capitaine Sinclair
    (de l'honnêteté, respect, et soin desquels envers moi et ma suite,
    je suis redevable, comme de mille autres faveurs, à votre Majesté),
    comme par l'obéissance du navire à ses experts conducteurs, nous
    mîmes pied à terre à Tremon, le port de Lubec, Mercredi le 7 Juin.
    Samedi nous arrivâmes à Hambourg, où je suis à présent, dans la
    maison des Anglais. Ce matin j'ai pensé ne voir point le soir, ayant
    été travaillé d'un mal soudain, et tempête horrible qui m'a cuidé
    renverser dans ce port. Mais il a plu à Dieu me remettre en bonne
    mesure, ainsi j'espère que je ne serai empêché d'achever mon voyage.
    Je prie Dieu qu'il préserve votre Majesté, et qu'il me rende si
    heureux, qu'étant rendu en mon pays, j'aie l'opportunité selon mon
    petit pouvoir de témoigner en effet que je suis

                                    "De votre Majesté
                          "Le très-humble et obéissant serviteur,
                                                  "B. WHITELOCKE.
    "Juin 14, 1654."

June 20, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke detained by contrary winds.]

The wind continued in the same quarter as before, very high and contrary to Whitelocke's course,
both the last night and this morning, which gave him and his company much trouble; but they
must submit to the time and good pleasure of God.

About five o'clock this morning (an unusual hour for visits) Mr. Schestedt came on board Whitelocke's
ship from Glückstadt, whither he came the day before by land. They had much discourse together,
wherein this gentleman is copious, most of it to the same effect as at his former visits at
Hamburg. He told Whitelocke of the Lord Wentworth's being at Hamburg and his carriage there,
and that he spake with respect towards the Protector and towards Whitelocke, but was full of
wishes of ruin to the Protector's party. Whitelocke inquired of him touching the levies of
soldiers by the Princes in the Lower Saxony now in action, with whom Mr. Schestedt was very
conversant. He said that the present levies were no other than such as those Princes made the
last year, and usually make every year for their own defence in case there should be any occasion,
and that he knew of no design extraordinary. Whitelocke asked him several questions about this
matter, that he might be able to give information thereof to the Protector; but either there
was nothing, or this gentleman would discover nothing in it. He was entertained in Whitelocke's
cabin at breakfast, where he fed and drank wine heartily, and at his going away Whitelocke
gave him twenty-one guns, and ordered the 'Elizabeth' to give him nineteen, and sent him to
shore in one of his ship-boats. The wind being very high, and not changing all this day, to
the trouble of Whitelocke and hindrance of his voyage.

In the evening, a messenger from Monsieur Schestedt brought to Whitelocke these letters:--

    "Monseigneur,

    "Votre Excellence aura reçu, par un de ses serviteurs, un petit
    billet de moi partant de Glückstadt, sur ce qu'avions parlé,
    suppliant très-humblement votre Excellence d'en avoir soin sans
    aucun bruit.
    "20 Juin, 1654.

    "Votre Excellence aura mille remercîmens de l'honneur reçu par ces
    canonades, et excusera pour ma disgrace de n'avoir été répondu."

To these letters Whitelocke sent this answer:--

    "Monseigneur,

    "Je n'ai rien par voie de retour que mes humbles remercîmens pour le
    grand honneur que vous m'avez fait, par vos très-agréables visites,
    tant à Hambourg qu'en ce lieu, comme aussi en m'envoyant ce noble
    gentilhomme qui m'a apporté les lettres de votre Excellence. Je ne
    manquerai pas, quand il plaira à Dieu me ramener en Angleterre, de
    contribuer tout ce qui sera en mon pouvoir pour votre service, et
    j'espère que l'issue en sera à votre contentement, et que dans peu
    de temps je saurai vous rendre bon compte de ce dont vous me faites
    mention en vos lettres.
    "A bord le Président, Rade de Glückstadt,
              20 Juin, 1654."

Many other letters passed between them, not necessary for a recital.

June 21, 1654.

[SN: Still detained by the wind.]

The wind continued in the same quarter as before, very high, and contrary to Whitelocke's course.
The English cloth-ships came down to him, desiring to be in his squadron homewards. Whitelocke
knew no reason why his ships might not as well have fallen down lower in the river as these;
about which he consulted with the officers and pilot of his ship, who agreed that this morning,
the wind being come a little more moderate, the ships might have fallen down with the tide,
but that the time was now neglected; which the officers excused because of the fog, which was
so thick that they durst not adventure to go down the river. He resolved, upon this, to take
the next opportunity, and went aboard the 'Elizabeth' to see his company there, who were well
accommodated.

Here a petition was presented to Whitelocke from two mariners in hold for speaking desperate
words,--that they would blow up the ship and all her company, and would cut the throat of the
Protector, and of ten thousand of his party. One of them confessed, in his petition, that he
was drunk when he spake these words, and had no intention of the least harm to the ship, or
to the Protector, or any of the State; both of them acknowledged their fault, and humbly asked
pardon. After Whitelocke had examined them severally, and could get from them no confession
of any plot against the Protector or State, but earnest asseverations of their innocences;
yet having news of a plot in England against the Protector and Government, he held it not fit
for him absolutely to release them; but, because he thought it only a business and words of
drunkenness, he ordered them to be had out of the hold, but their Captain to see that they
should be forthcoming at their arrival in England, that the Council, being acquainted herewith,
might direct their pleasure concerning them.

About noon the wind began again to blow with great tempestuousness, and flat contrary to Whitelocke's
course. In the evening a gentleman came aboard Whitelocke's ship, with letters from Monsieur
Schestedt from Glückstadt to the same effect, and with compliments as formerly, to which Whitelocke
returned a civil answer by the same messenger; and by him he also sent letters of compliment
and thanks to the Resident Bradshaw, which likewise he prayed the Resident, in his name, to
present to the English Company of Merchants at Hamburg, for their very great civilities and
noble respects to Whitelocke while he was with them.

June 22, 1654.

[SN: A visit from Count Ranzau.]

The wind continued contrary and extraordinary violent all the last night and this morning;
and Whitelocke had cause to acknowledge the favour of God to him, that during these rough storms
he was in a good harbour and had not put out into the open sea.

Early in the morning a gentleman came from Glückstadt on board to Whitelocke, and told him
that Grave Ranzau, the Governor of the Province of Holstein, had sent him to salute Whitelocke
on his part, and to know when he might conveniently come to Whitelocke; who answered that he
should be always ready to entertain his Excellence, but in regard the time was now so dangerous,
he desired the Governor would not expose himself to the hazard for his sake.

About an hour after came another, in the habit of a military officer, from the Grave to Whitelocke,
to excuse the Grave's not coming by reason of the very ill weather, and that no boat was to
be gotten fit to bring the Grave from shore to Whitelocke's ship; but he said, that if Whitelocke
pleased to send his ship-boats and mariners for the Governor, the wind being somewhat fallen,
he would come and kiss his hand. Whitelocke answered in French to the gentleman, who spake
Dutch, and was interpreted in French, that he was glad his Excellence was not in danger of
the violent storms in coming on board to him this morning, but he should esteem it great honour
to see the Governor in his ship, and that not only the boats and mariners, but all in the ship
was at the service of his Excellence. The gentleman desired that one of the ship-boats and
the ship-mariners might carry him back to land, and so bring the Governor from thence to Whitelocke,
who commanded the same to be done. And about an hour after came the Grave Ranzau, a proper,
comely person, habited as a soldier, about forty years of age; with him was another lord, governor
of another province, and three or four gentlemen, and other followers.

Whitelocke received them at the ship's side, and at his entry gave him nine guns. The Grave
seemed doubtful to whom to make his application, Whitelocke being in a plain sea-gown of English
grey baize; but (as the Governor said afterwards) he knew him to be the Ambassador by seeing
him with his hat on, and so many brave fellows about him bareheaded. After salutations, the
Governor spake to Whitelocke to this effect:--

    "Monseigneur,

    "Le Roi de Danemarck, mon maître, m'a commandé de venir trouver
    votre Excellence, et de la saluer de sa part, et la faire la
    bienvenue en ses hâvres, et lui faire savoir que s'il y a quelque
    chose dans ce pays-là dont le gouvernement m'est confié par sa
    Majesté, qu'il est à son commandement. Sa Majesté aussi a un extreme
    désir de voir votre Excellence, et de vous entretenir en sa cour,
    désirant d'embrasser toutes les occasions par lesquelles il pourrait
    témoigner le respect qu'il porte à son Altesse Monseigneur le
    Protecteur."

Whitelocke answered in French to this purpose:--

    "Monseigneur,

    "Je rends grâces à sa Majesté le Roi de Danemarck, du respect qu'il
    lui à plu témoigner à sa Sérénissime Altesse mon maître, et de
    l'honneur qu'il lui à plu faire à moi son serviteur, de quoi je ne
    manquerai pas d'informer son Altesse. Je suis aussi beaucoup obligé
    à votre Excellence pour l'honneur de votre visite, qu'il vous plaît
    me donner en ce lieu, et principalement en un temps si fâcheux.
    J'eusse aussi grande envie de baiser les mains de sa Majesté et de
    voir sa cour, n'eût été que son Altesse a envoyé des navires exprès
    pour m'emporter d'ici en Angleterre, et que j'ai ouï dire que le Roi
    a remué sa cour de Copenhague ailleurs, à cause de la peste. Je suis
    très-joyeux d'entendre de la santé de sa Majesté, auquel je
    souhaite toute sorte de bonheur."

[SN: Visit from the Dutch Agent.]

After many compliments, Whitelocke gave, him precedence into his cabin; and after some discourse
there, a servant of the Agent of Holland was brought in to Whitelocke, who said his master
desired Whitelocke to appoint a time when the Agent might come on board him to salute Whitelocke
and to kiss his hand. He answered that, at any hour when his master pleased to do Whitelocke
that honour, he should be welcome, and that some noble persons being now with him, who, he
hoped, would do him the favour to take part of a sea-dinner with him, that if it would please
the Agent to do him the same favour, and to keep these honourable persons company, it would
be the greater obligation unto Whitelocke. The Grave, hearing this, began to excuse himself,
that he could not stay dinner with Whitelocke, but, upon entreaty, he was prevailed with to stay.

About noon the Dutch Agent came in one of Whitelocke's boats on board his ship, whom he received
at the ship's side, and saluted with seven guns at his entry. The Agent spake to Whitelocke
to this purpose:--"That, passing by Glückstadt towards Hamburg, he was informed of Whitelocke's
being in this place, and thereupon held it his duty, and agreeable to the will of his Lords,
not to proceed in his journey without first giving a visit to Whitelocke to testify the respect
of his superiors to the Protector and Commonwealth of England, as also to Whitelocke in particular."
Whitelocke returned thanks to the Agent for the respect which he testified to the Protector,
and for the honour done to Whitelocke, and that it would be acceptable so the Protector to
hear of this respect from my Lords the States to him, whereof he should not fail to inform
his Highness when he should have the opportunity to be near him.

[SN: Entertainment of Count Ranzau.]

The Grave went first into Whitelocke's cabin, after him the Agent, and then Whitelocke, who
gave these guests a plentiful dinner on ship-board. The Grave desired that Whitelocke's sons
might be called in to dine with them, which was done, and Whitelocke asked the Grave if he
would have any of his company to dine with him. He desired one of the gentlemen, who was admitted
accordingly.

They were served with the States' plate, which Whitelocke had caused to be taken forth on this
occasion; and the strangers would often take up the plates and dishes to look on them, wondering
to see so many great and massy pieces of silver plate as there were. They drank no healths,
the Grave telling Whitelocke he had heard it was against his judgement, and therefore he did
forbear to begin any healths, for which civility Whitelocke thanked him; and they had no want
of good wine and meat, and such as scarce had been seen before on ship-board. They discoursed
of the affairs in Sweden, and of the happy peace between England and Denmark, and the like.
Monsieur De la Marche gave thanks in French, because they all understood it.

After dinner Whitelocke took out his tobacco-box, which the Grave looked upon, being gold,
and his arms, the three falcons, engraven on it; whereupon he asked Whitelocke if he loved
hawks, who said he was a falconer by inheritance, as his coat of arms testified. The Grave
said that he would send him some hawks the next winter out of his master's dominions of Iceland,
where the best in the world were bred, which he nobly performed afterwards.

The Grave earnestly invited Whitelocke to go on shore with him to his house, which was within
two leagues of Glückstadt, where he should meet Monsieur Schestedt and his lady, and the next
day he would bring Whitelocke to the King, who much desired to see him; and the Grave offered
to bring Whitelocke back again in his coach to Glückstadt. Whitelocke desired to be excused
by reason of his voyage, and an order of his country that those who had the command of any
of the State's ships were not to lie out of them until they brought them home again; otherwise
Whitelocke said he had a great desire to kiss his Majesty's hand and to wait upon his Excellence
and the noble company at his house; and he desired that his humble thanks and excuse might
be made to the King. The Grave replied that Whitelocke, being an Extraordinary Ambassador,
was not within the order concerning commanders of the State's ships, but he might be absent
and leave the charge of the ships to the inferior officers. Whitelocke said that as Ambassador
he had the honour to command those ships, and so was within the order, and was commanded by
his Highness to return forthwith to England; that if, in his absence, the wind and weather
should come fair, or any harm should come to any of the ships, he should be answerable for
neglecting of his trust. Whitelocke also was unwilling, though he must not express the same,
to put himself under the trouble and temptations which he might meet with in such a journey,
and to neglect the least opportunity of proceeding in his voyage homewards.

The Grave, seeing Whitelocke not to be persuaded, hasted away; and after compliments and ceremonies
passed with great civility, he and the Agent and their company went into one of Whitelocke's
ship-boats, with a crew of his men and his Lieutenant to attend them. At their going off, by
Whitelocke's order only one gun was fired, and a good while after the 'President' fired all
her guns round, the 'Elizabeth,' according to custom, did the like; so that there was a continual
firing of great guns during the whole time of their passage from the ship unto the shore--almost
a hundred guns, and the fort answered them with all the guns they had.

At the Lieutenant's return he told Whitelocke that the Grave, when he heard but one gun fired
for a good while together, began to be highly offended, saying that his master, the King, was
slighted and himself dishonoured, to be sent away with one gun only fired, and he wondered
the Ambassador carried it in such a manner; but afterwards, when the rest of the guns went
off, the Grave said he would tell the King how highly the English Ambassador had honoured his
Majesty and his servant by the most magnificent entertainment that ever was made on ship-board,
and by the number of guns at his going away, and that this was the greatest honour he ever
received, with much to the like purpose; and he gave to the Lieutenant for his pains two pieces
of plate of silver gilt, and ten rix-dollars to the boat's company, and twenty rix-dollars
more to the ship's company.

June 23, 1654.

This was the seventh day that Whitelocke had lain on the Elbe, which was tedious to him; and
now, fresh provisions failing, he sent Captain Crispe to Glückstadt to buy more, whose diligence
and discretion carried him through his employments to the contentment of his master. He brought
good provisions at cheap rates.

[SN: Whitelocke agrees to convoy four English cloth ships.]

The four captains of the English cloth-ships came on board Whitelocke to visit him; they were
sober, experienced sea commanders; their ships lay at anchor close to Whitelocke. After dinner
they told Whitelocke that if their ships had been three leagues lower down the river, they
could not have anchored in this bad weather without extreme danger, the sea being there much
higher, and the tide so strong that their cables would not have held their ships; and that
if they had been at sea in this weather, they had been in imminent peril of shipwreck, and
could not have returned into the river, nor have put into the Weser nor any other harbour.
Whitelocke said that they and he were the more bound to God, who had so ordered their affairs
as to keep them, during all the storms wherein they had been, in a safe and good harbour; he
wished them, in this and all their voyages, to place their confidence in God, who would be
the same God to them as now, and in all their affairs of this life.

The captains desired Whitelocke's leave to carry their streamers and colours, and to be received
by him as part of his fleet in their voyage for England, and they would acknowledge him for
their Admiral. Whitelocke told them he should be glad of their company in his voyage, and would
willingly admit them as part of his small fleet, but he would expect their observance of his
orders; and if there should be occasion, that they must join with him in fight against any
enemies of the Commonwealth whom they should meet with, which they promised to do; and Whitelocke
mentioned it to the captains, because he had received intelligence of a ship laden with arms
coming out of the Weser for Scotland, with a strong convoy, with whom Whitelocke resolved to
try his strength, if he could meet him.

In the afternoon two merchants of the cloth-ships came to visit Whitelocke, and showed great
respect to him; and they and the captains returned together to their ships, the wind being
allayed, and come about to the south, which gave Whitelocke hopes to proceed in his voyage.

June 24, 1654.

[SN: The convoy sails to Rose Beacon.]

The wind being come to west-south-west, a little fallen, about three o'clock in the morning
they began to weigh anchor. By Whitelocke's command, all the ships were to observe this order
in their sailing. Every morning each ship was to come up and fall by Whitelocke, and salute
him, that he might inquire how they all did; then they were to fall astern again, Whitelocke
to be in the van, and the 'Elizabeth' in the rear, and the other ships in the middle between
them; all to carry their colours; Whitelocke to carry his in the maintop, and all to take their
orders from his ship.

Thus they did this morning; the cloth-ships came all by Whitelocke, and saluted him the first
with nine guns. Whitelocke answered her with as many. Then she gave three guns more, to thank
him for his salutation. Each of the other ships gave seven guns at their passing by; then the
fort of Glückstadt discharged all their ordnance to give Whitelocke the farewell, who then
fired twenty-one guns, and the 'Elizabeth' nineteen; then the cloth-ships fired three guns
apiece, as thanks for their salutation; and so, with their sails spread, they committed themselves
to the protection of the Almighty. Though these things may be looked upon by some as trivial
and expensive, yet those who go to sea will find them useful and of consequence, both to keep
up and cheer the spirits of the seamen, who will not be pleased without them, and to give an
honour to one's country among strangers who are taken with them; and it is become a kind of
sea language and ceremony, and teacheth them also the better to speak it in battle.

Some emulation happened between the captain of the 'President' and Minnes, because Whitelocke
went not with him, but in the other's ship, which Whitelocke would have avoided, but that he
apprehended the 'President' sent purposely for him.

Between seven and eight o'clock in the morning Whitelocke passed by a village called Brown
Bottle, belonging to the King of Denmark, upon the river in Holstein, four leagues from Glückstadt;
and four leagues from thence he passed by a village on the other side of the Elbe, which they
told him was called Oldenburg, and belonged to the Duke of Saxony. Two leagues below that,
he came to anchor over against a village called Rose Beacon, a fair beacon standing by the
water-side. It belongs to Hamburg; and by a late accident of a soldier's discharging his musket,
it set a house on fire, and burnt half the town. Some of Whitelocke's people went on shore,
and reported it to be a poor place, and no provisions to be had there.

The road here is well defended by a compass of land on the south and west, but to the north
and east it lies open. The sea there is wide, but full of high sands. The river is so shallow
in some places that there was scarce three fathom water where he passed between Brown Bottle
and Oldenburg, where his ship struck upon the sand, and made foul water, to the imminent danger
of him and all his people, had not the Lord in mercy kept them. They were forced presently
to tack back, and seek for deeper water. The pilot confessed this to happen because they lay
too far to gain the wind, which brought them upon the shallow. Whitelocke came to Rose Beacon
before noon, which is not very safe if the wind be high, as now it was; yet much safer than
to be out in the open sea, whither the pilot durst not venture, the wind rising and being contrary
to them.

June 25, 1654.

The Lord's Day.--Mr. Ingelo, Whitelocke's chaplain, preached in his ship in the morning. Mr.
De la Marche, his other chaplain, was sick of a dysentery, which he fell into by drinking too
much milk on shore. Mr. Knowles, a confident young man, the ship's minister, preached in the
afternoon.

[SN: The cloth ships return to Glückstadt.]

The wind blew very strong and contrary all the last night and this morning, which made it troublesome
riding in this place; insomuch that the four cloth-ships, doubting the continuance of this
tempestuous weather, and fearing the danger that their cables would not hold, which failing
would endanger all, and not being well furnished with provisions, they weighed anchor this
morning flood, and sailed back again to Glückstadt road; whereof they sent notice to Whitelocke,
desiring his excuse for what their safety forced them to do. But Whitelocke thought it not
requisite to follow their example, men of war having better cables than merchantmen; and being
better able to endure the stress of weather, and he being better furnished with provisions,
he resolved to try it out in this place.

[SN: A present from Count Ranzau.]

In the afternoon the wind was somewhat appeased and blew west-south-west. A messenger came
on board Whitelocke, and informed him that Grave Ranzau had sent a noble present--a boat full
of fresh provisions--to Whitelocke; but by reason of the violent storms, and Whitelocke being
gone from Glückstadt, the boat could not come at him, but was forced to return back, and so
Whitelocke lost his present. The letters mentioning this were delivered to Whitelocke by this
messenger, and were these:--

    "A son Excellence Monsieur Whitelocke, Ambassadeur Extraordinaire
    d'Angleterre vers sa Majesté la Reine de Suède.

    "Monseigneur,

    "Nous croyons être obligés de faire connaître à votre Excellence que
    Monseigneur le Comte de Ranzau, notre maître, nous avait donné
    commission de venir très-humblement baiser les mains de votre
    Excellence, et lui faire présenter quelques cerfs, sangliers,
    lièvres, perdrix, et quantité de carpes; la supplier de s'en
    rafraîchir un peu, pendant que l'opiniâtreté d'un vent contraire lui
    empêcherait une meilleure commodité, et d'assurer votre Excellence,
    de la part de Monseigneur le Comte, qu'il souhaite avec passion de
    pouvoir témoigner à votre Excellence combien il désire les occasions
    pour lui rendre très-humbles services, et contracter avec elle une
    amitié plus étroite; et comme son Excellence s'en allait trouver le
    Roi, son maître, qu'il ne laisserait point de dire à sa Majesté les
    civilités que votre Excellence lui avait faites, et que sa Majesté
    épouserait sans doute ses intérêts, pour l'assister de s'acquitter
    de son devoir avec plus de vigueur, lorsque la fortune lui en
    fournirait quelque ample matière.

    "Mais, Monseigneur, nous avons été si malheureux d'arriver à
    Glückstadt cinq ou six heures après que votre Excellence avait fait
    voile et était descendu vers la mer; toutefois avons-nous pris
    vitement un vaisseau pour suivre, et n'étions guères loin du hâvre
    où l'on disait que votre Excellence était contrainte d'attendre un
    vent encore plus favorable, quand notre vaisseau, n'étant point
    chargé, fut tellement battu par une grande tempête, que nous étions
    obligés de nous en retourner sans pouvoir executer les ordres de
    Monseigneur le Comte, notre maître, dont nous avons un déplaisir
    incroyable. Votre Excellence a une bonté et générosité
    très-parfaite; c'est pourquoi nous la supplions très-humblement,
    d'imputer plutôt à notre malheur qu'à la volonté de Monseigneur le
    Comte, le mauvais succès de cette notre entreprise; aussi bien la
    lettre ici enfermée de son Excellence Monseigneur le Comte donnera
    plus de croyance à nos paroles.

    "Nous demandons très-humblement pardon à votre Excellence de la
    longueur de celle-ci, et espérons quelque rencontre plus heureuse
    pour lui témoigner de meilleure grâce que nous sommes passionément,

                  "Monseigneur, de votre Excellence
                      "Très-humbles et très-obéissans serviteurs,
                                    "FRANÇOIS LOUIS VAN DE WIELE.
                                    "BALTH. BORNE."

The enclosed letter from the Count, which they mentioned, was this:--

    "Illustri et nobilissimo Domino Bulstrodo Whitelocke,
    Constabulario Castri de Windsor, et Domino Custodi Magni Sigilli
    Reipublicæ Angliæ, adque Serenissimam Reginam Sueciæ Legato
    Extraordinario; amico meo plurimum honorando.

    "Illustris et nobilissime Domine Legate, amice plurimum honorande,

    "Quod Excellentia vestra me hesterno die tam magnificè et lautè
    exceperit, id ut pro singulari agnosco beneficio; ita ingentes
    Excellentiæ vestræ ago gratias, et nihil magis in votis habeo quam
    ut occasio mihi offeratur, quâ benevolentiam hanc aliquando debitè
    resarcire possim.

    "Cum itaque videam ventum adhuc esse contrarium, adeo ut Excellentia
    vestra anchoram solvere versusque patriam vela vertere needum
    possit; partium mearum duxi aliquo modo gratum meum ostendere animum
    et præsentem ad Excellentiam vestram ablegare, simulque aliquid
    carnis, farinæ, et piscium, prout festinatio temporis admittere
    potuit, offerre, Excellentiam vestram obnixè rogans ut oblatum æqui
    bonique consulere dignetur. Et quamvis ex animo Excellentiæ vestræ
    ventum secundum, et ad iter omnia prospera exoptem, nihilo tamen
    minus, si forte fortuna in hisce locis vicinis diutius adhuc
    subsistere cogatur, ministris meis injungam, ut Excellentiæ vestræ
    in absentia mea (quoniam in procinctu sum me crastino mane ad regiam
    Majestatem dominum meum clementissimum conferre) ulterius inservire,
    et quicquid occasio obtulerit subministrare debeant. De cætero nos
    Divinæ commendo protectioni, et Excellentiæ vestræ filios
    dilectissimos meo nomine salutare obnixè rogo.

    "Dabam in arce mea Breitenburos, 23 Junii, anno 1654.

                  "Excellentiæ vestræ
                          "Observantissimus totusque addictus,
                                 "CHRISTIANUS, Comes in Ranzau."

Whitelocke did the rather insert these letters, to testify the abilities of the gentlemen servants
to this Grave, as also the grateful affection of their master towards him, a stranger to them,
upon one meal's entertainment and acquaintance.

About six o'clock at night Mr. Smith, son to Alderman Smith, of London, and two other young
merchants of the English company at Hamburg, came on board to Whitelocke, and brought letters
to him from the Resident Bradshaw, with those the Resident received by this week's post from
London; wherein was little news, and no letters came to Whitelocke, because (as he supposed)
his friends believed him to be upon the sea. Whitelocke wrote letters of thanks to the Resident,
and enclosed in them letters of compliment to the Ricks-Chancellor, and to his son Grave Eric
of Sweden, and to Sir George Fleetwood and others, his friends, and entreated the Resident
to send them into Sweden.

June 26, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke weighs anchor.]

The wind not being so high the last night nor this morning as formerly, but the weather promising
fair, and Whitelocke longing to advance in his voyage, he weighed anchor about break of day,
the 'Elizabeth' did the like, and they were under sail about four o'clock this morning. As
they came out from Rose Beacon, they told above thirty fisher-boats at sea, testifying the
industriousness of this people.

About two leagues from Rose Beacon they passed in sight of another beacon, and of a village
which they call Newworke, in which is a small castle like unto that at Rose Beacon. Here the
sea began to expatiate, and about three leagues from hence was the lowest buoy of the river.
And now Whitelocke was got forth into the open German Ocean, a sea wide and large, oft-times
highly rough and boisterous and full of danger, especially in these parts of it, and as Whitelocke
shortly found it to be. Suddenly the wind grew high and the sea swelled, and they were fain
to take in their topsails; the ship rolled and tossed sufficiently to make the younger seamen
sick, and all fearful.

From this place they might see an island on the starboard side of them, called Heligoland,
standing a great way into the sea, twelve leagues from Rose Beacon; the island is about six
miles in compass. The inhabitants have a language, habit, and laws, different from their neighbours,
and are said to have many witches among them; their shores are found very dangerous, and many
ships wrecked upon them.

About noon the wind came more to the west, and sometimes it was calm; nevertheless the sea
wrought high, the waves raised by the former storms not abating a long while after the storm
ceased. When they were gone about two leagues beyond Heligoland, the wind and tide turning
against them, they were driven back again near two leagues short of the island; but about four
o'clock in the afternoon, the wind being come to south-south-east and a fresh gale, they went
on well in their course, running about eight leagues in a watch. Before it was night they had
left Heligoland out of sight, and got about eight leagues beyond it; and the 'Elizabeth' kept
up with Whitelocke.

From hence he came in sight of divers small islands upon the Dutch coast, which lie in rank
from the mouth of the Elbe unto the Texel. In the evening they spied a sail to the leeward
of them, but so far off that Whitelocke held it not fit, being almost dark, to go so far as
he must do out of his way to inquire after her, and she seemed, at that distance, to stand
for the course of England.

June 27, 1654.

[SN: At sea.]

The last night, the wind, having chopped about, had much hindered Whitelocke's course, and
made him uncertain where they were, yet he went on labouring in the main; but the seamen guessed,
by the ship's making way and holding it (though sometimes forward and sometimes backward),
that this morning by eight o'clock they had gained thirty leagues from Heligoland, from which
to Orfordness they reckon eighty leagues, and the "Fly" to be midway. The ship, which they
saw last night, coming near them this morning, they found to be of Amsterdam, coming from the
Sound homewards: she struck her sails to Whitelocke, and so passed on her course.

About noon Whitelocke came over-against the Fly, and saw the tower there, about five or six
leagues from him. The wind lessened, and the sea did not go so high as before; he went on his
course about four or five leagues in a watch. About seven or eight Holland ships made their
course by them, as was supposed, towards the Sound, which now they did without fear or danger,
the peace between the two Commonwealths being confirmed.

Whitelocke's fresh provisions beginning to fail, and his biscuit lessened by affording part
of it to the 'Elizabeth,' which wanted, he was enforced to order that there should be but one
meal a day, to make his provisions hold out.

The most part of the afternoon they were taken with a calm, till about seven o'clock in the
evening, when the wind came fresh again to the east and towards the north, and then would again
change; and sometimes they kept their course, and sometimes they were driven back again. The
wind was high and variable, and they toiled to and again, uncertain where they were. Divers
took the opportunity to recreate themselves by fishing, and the mackerel and other fish they
took gave a little supply to their want of victual. About nine o'clock in the evening they
lost the 'Elizabeth,' leaving her behind about three leagues; she used to keep a distance from
Whitelocke's ship, and under the wind of her, since they began their voyage; and, as a stranger,
would not keep company with Whitelocke, being discontented because he went not in that frigate.

June 28, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke's great deliverance.]

This Wednesday was the day of Whitelocke's greatest deliverance. After midnight, till three
o'clock in the afternoon, was a great calm, and though the 'President' were taken with it,
yet the 'Elizabeth' had a good wind; and notwithstanding that the day before she was left behind
a great distance, yet this morning she came up near to him, and got before him; so great is
the difference sometimes, and at so small a distance, at sea, that here one ship shall have
no wind at all, and another ship a few yards from her shall have her sails filled. Notwithstanding
the calm, yet the wind being by flashes large, they went the last night and the day before
twenty leagues up and down, sometimes in their course and sometimes out of it. In the morning,
sounding with the plummet, the pilot judged that they were about sixteen leagues from the Texel,
and twenty-four from Orfordness, but he did not certainly know whereabouts they were. Between
three and four o'clock in the afternoon the wind came to north-north-west, which gave them
hopes of finishing their voyage the sooner, and it blew a fresh gale.

About five o'clock in the evening rose a very great fog and thick mist, so that it was exceeding
dark, and they could not see their way a ship's length before them. Whitelocke came upon the
decks, and seeing the weather so bad and night coming on, and that all their sails were spread,
and they ran extraordinary fast, he did not like it, but called together the captain, the master,
the pilot, and others, to consult what was best to be done. He asked them why they spread all
their sails, and desired to make so much way in so ill weather, and so near to night. They
said they had so much sail because the wind favoured them, and that notwithstanding the bad
weather they might safely run as they did, having sea-room enough. Whitelocke asked them if
they knew whereabouts they were. They confessed they did not, because they had been so much
tossed up and down by contrary winds, and the sun had not shined, whereby they might take the
elevation. Whitelocke replied, that, having been driven forward and backward as they had been,
it was impossible to know where they were; that the ship had run, and did now run, extraordinary
fast, and if she should run so all night, perhaps they might be in danger of the English coast
or of the Holland coast; and that by Norfolk there were great banks of sand, by which he had
passed at sea formerly, and which could not be unknown to them; that in case the ship should
fall upon those sands, or any other dangers of that coast, before morning, they should be all
lost; and therefore he thought fit to take down some of their sails and slacken their course
till, by daylight, they might come to know more certainly in what part they were.

The officers of the ship continued earnest to hold on their course, saying they would warrant
it that there was running enough for all night, and that to take down any sail, now the wind
was so good for them, would be a great wrong to them in their course. But Whitelocke was little
satisfied with their reasons, and less with their warranties, which among them are not of binding
force. His own reason showed him, that, not knowing where they were, and in such weather as
this to run on as they did, they knew not whither, with all their sails spread, might be dangerous;
but to take down some of their sails and to slacken their course could be no danger, and but
little prejudice in the hindrance of their course this night, which he thought better to be
borne than to endanger all.

[SN: He orders sail to be taken in.]

But chiefly it was the goodness of God to put it strongly upon Whitelocke's heart to overrule
the seamen in this particular, though in their own art, and though his own desires were sufficiently
earnest to hasten to his dear relations and country; yet the present haste he feared might
hinder the seeing of them at all. Upon a strange earnestness in his own mind and judgement,
he gave a positive command to the captain to cause all the sails to be taken down except the
mainsail only, and that to be half-furled. Upon the captain's dispute, Whitelocke with quickness
told him that if he did not presently see it done he would cause another to do it, whereupon
the captain obeyed; and it was a great mercy that the same was done, which God directed as
a means to save their lives.

[SN: The ship strikes.]

After the sails were taken down, Whitelocke also ordered them to sound and try what water and
bottom they had. About ten o'clock in the evening sounding, they found eighteen fathom water;
the next sounding they had but fifteen fathom, and so lessened every sounding till they came
to eight fathom, which startled them, and made them endeavour to tack about. But it was too
late, for within less than a quarter of an hour after they had eighteen fathom water, the ship
struck upon a bank of sand, and there stuck fast. Whitelocke was sitting with some of the gentlemen
in the steerage-room when this happened, and felt a strange motion of the frigate, as if she
had leaped, and not unlike the curveting of a great horse; and the violence of the striking
threw several of the gentlemen from off their seats into the midst of the room. The condition
they were in was quickly understood, and both seamen and landsmen discovered it by the wonderful
terror and amazement which had seized on them, and more upon the seamen than others who knew
less of the danger.

It pleased his good God to keep up the spirits and faith of Whitelocke in this great extremity;
and when nothing would be done but what he in person ordered, in this frightful confusion God
gave him extraordinary fixedness and assistance, a temper and constancy of spirit beyond what
was usual with him. He ordered the master-gunner presently to fire some pieces of ordnance,
after the custom at sea, to signify their being in distress. But the gunner was so amazed with
the danger, that he forgot to unbrace the guns, and shot away the main-sheet; and had not the
ship been strong and staunch, the guns being fired when they were close braced, they had broke
the sides of her. Whitelocke caused the guns to be unbraced and divers of them fired, to give
notice to the 'Elizabeth,' or any other ship that might be within hearing, to come in to their
assistance; but they heard no guns again to answer theirs, though they longed for it, hoping
that the 'Elizabeth,' or any other ship coming in to them, by their boats might save the lives
of some of them. Whitelocke also caused lights to be set up in the top-gallant, used at sea
by those in distress to invite help; but the lights were not answered again by any other ship
or vessel; particularly they wondered that nothing was heard or seen from the 'Elizabeth.'

Whitelocke then ordered the sails of the ship to be reversed, that the wind, being high, might
so help them off; but no help was by it, nor by all the people's coming together to the stern,
then to the head, then to the sides of the ship, all in a heap together; nothing would help
them. Then Whitelocke ordered the mariners to hoist out one of the boats, in which some of
the company would have persuaded Whitelocke to put himself and to leave the rest, and seek
to preserve his own life by trusting to the seas in this boat; and they that advised this,
offered willingly to go with him.

But Whitelocke knew that if he should go into the boat, besides the dishonour of leaving his
people in this distress, so many would strive to enter into the boat with him (a life knows
no ceremony) that probably the boat would be sunk by the crowding; and there was little hope
of escaping in such a boat, though he should get well off from the ship and the boat not be
overladen. He therefore ordered the captain to take a few of the seamen into the boat with
him, and to go round the ship and sound what water was on each side of her, and what hopes
they could find, and by what means to get her off, himself resolving to abide the same fortune
with his followers.

The captain found it very shallow to windward, and very deep to leeward, but no hopes of help;
and at his return the master advised to lighten the ship by casting overboard the goods in
her. Whitelocke held it best to begin with the ordnance, and gave order for it. Mr. Earle was
contriving how to save his master's jewels, which were of some value; his master took more
care to save his papers, to him more precious jewels; but there was no hope of saving any goods
or lives. Whitelocke put in his pocket a tablet of gold of his wife's picture, that this, being
found about his dead body when it should be taken up, might show him to have been a gentleman,
and satisfy for his burial. One was designing to get upon a plank, others upon the masts, others
upon other fancies, any way to preserve life; but no way was left whereby they could have the
least shadow or hopes of a deliverance.

The captain went up to the quarter-deck, saying, there he lived and there he would die. All
the officers, sadly enough, concluded that there was not the least show of any hopes of preservation,
but that they were all dead men, and that upon the return of the tide the ship would questionless
be dashed in pieces. Some lay crying in one corner, others lamenting in another; some, who
vaunted most in time of safety, were now most dejected. The tears and sighs and wailings in
all parts of the ship would have melted a stony heart into pity; every swelling wave seemed
great in expectation of its booty; the raging waves foamed as if their prey were too long detained
from them; every billow threatened present death, who every moment stared in their faces for
almost two hours together.

[SN: Exhorts his sons.]

In this condition Whitelocke encouraged his two sons to undergo the pleasure of God with all
submission. He was sorry for them, being young men, who might have lived many years to do God
and their country service, that they now should be snatched away so untimely; but he told them,
that if father and sons must now die together, he doubted not but they should go together to
that happiness which admits no change; that he did not so much lament his own condition, being
an old man, in the course of nature much nearer the grave than they: but he besought God to
bless them and yet to appear for their deliverance, if it were His will, or else to give him
and them, and all the company, hearts willing to submit to His good pleasure.

[SN: Discourse with the boatswain.]

Walking on the decks to see his orders executed for throwing the ordnance overboard, the boatswain
met him and spake to him in his language:--

Boatswain. My Lord, what do you mean to do?

Whitelocke. Wherein dost thou ask my meaning?

Bo. You have commanded the ordnance to be cast overboard.

Wh. It is for our preservation.

Bo. If it be done, we are all destroyed.

Wh. What reason have you to be of this opinion? Must we not lighten the ship? and can we do
it better than to begin with the ordnance?

Bo. It may do well to lighten the ship, but not by throwing overboard the ordnance; for you
can but drop them close to the ship's side, and where the water is shallow they will lie up
against the side of the ship and fret it, and with the working of the sea make her to spring
leaks presently.

Wh. I think thou speakest good reason, and I will try a little longer before it be done.

Bo. My Lord, do not doubt but God will show Himself, and bring you off by His own hand from
this danger.

Wh. Hast thou any ground to judge so, or dost thou see any probability of it?

Bo. I confess there is no probability for it; but God hath put it into my heart to tell your
Excellence that He will appear our Deliverer when all other hopes and helps fail us, and He
will save us by His own power; and let us trust in Him.

Upon this discourse with the honest boatswain, who walked up and down as quite unconcerned,
Whitelocke forbade the throwing of the ordnance overboard; and as he was sitting on the deck,
Mr. Ingelo, one of his chaplains, came to him, and said that he was glad to see him in so good
a temper.

Whitelocke. I bless God, who keeps up my spirit.

Ingelo. My Lord, such composedness, and not being daunted in this distress, is a testimony
of God's presence with you.

Wh. I have cause to thank God, whose presence hath been with me in all my dangers, and most
in this greatest, which I hope and pray that He would fit us all to submit unto.

Ing. I hope He will; and I am glad to see your sons and others to have so much courage left
in so high a danger.

Wh. God hath not suffered me, nor them, nor yourself, to be dejected in this great trial; and
it gives me comfort at this time to observe it, nor doth it leave me without some hopes that
God hath yet a mercy in store for us.

Ing. There is little hopes of continuance in this life, it is good to prepare ourselves for
a better life; and therefore, if you please that the company may be called together into your
cabin, it will be good to join in prayer, and recommending our souls to Him that gave them;
I believe they are not to remain long in these bodies of clay.

Wh. I hope every one doth this apart, and it is very fit likewise to join together in doing
it; therefore I pray send and call the people into my cabin to prayer.

Whilst Mr. Ingelo was gone to call the people together, a mariner came from the head of the
ship, running hastily towards Whitelocke, and crying out to him, which caused Whitelocke to
suspect that the ship had sprung a leak or was sinking. The mariner called out:--

[SN: The ship moves,]

Mariner. My Lord! my Lord! my Lord!

Whitelocke. What's the matter, mariner?

Mar. She wags! she wags!

Wh. Which way doth she wag?

Mar. To leeward.

Wh. I pray God that be true; and it is the best news that ever I heard in my life.

Mar. My Lord, upon my life the ship did wag; I saw her move.

Wh. Mr. Ingelo, I pray stay awhile before you call the people; it may be God will give us occasion
to change the style of our prayers. Fellow-seaman, show me where thou sawest her move.

Mar. My Lord, here, at the head of the frigate, I saw her move, and she moves now,--now she
moves! you may see it.

Wh. My old eyes cannot discern it.

Mar. I see it plain, and so do others.

[SN: and rights.]

Whilst they were thus speaking and looking, within less than half a quarter of an hour, the
ship herself came off from the sand, and miraculously floated on the water. The ship being
thus by the wonderful immediate hand of God, again floating on the sea, the mariners would
have been hoisting of their sails, but Whitelocke forbade it, and said he would sail no more
that night. But as soon as the ship had floated a good way from the bank of sand, he caused
them to let fall their anchors, that they might stay till morning, to see where they were,
and spend the rest of the night in giving thanks to God for his most eminent, most miraculous
deliverance.

Being driven by the wind about a mile from the sand, there they cast anchor, and fell into
discourse of the providences and goodness of God to them in this unhoped-for preservation.
One observed, that if Whitelocke had not positively overruled the seamen, and made them, contrary
to their own opinions, to take down their sails, but that the ship had run with all her sails
spread, and with that force had struck into the sand, it had been impossible for her ever to
have come off again, but they must all have perished. Another observed, that the ship did strike
so upon the bank of sand, that the wind was on that side of her where the bank was highest,
and so the strength of the wind lay to drive the ship from the bank towards the deep water.

Another supposed, that the ship did strike on the shelving part of the bank of sand, and the
wind blowing from the higher part of the bank, the weight of the ship thus pressed by the wind,
and working towards the lower part of the shelving of the bank, the sand crumbled away from
the ship, and thereby and with the wind she was set on-float again. Another observed, that
if the ship had struck higher on the bank or deeper, when her sails had been spread, with the
force of her way, they could not in the least probability have been saved.

Another observed, that through the goodness of God the wind rose higher, and came more to that
side of the ship where the bank of sand was highest, after the ship was struck, which was a
great means of her coming off; and that, as soon as she was floated, the wind was laid and
came about again to another quarter. Another observed, that it being at that time ebbing water
was a great means of their preservation; because the ship being so far struck into the sand,
and so great a ship, a flowing water could not have raised her; but upon the coming in of the
tide she would questionless have been broke in pieces.

The mariners said, that if God had not loved the landmen more than the seamen they should never
have come off from this danger. Every one made his observations. Whitelocke concluded them
to this purpose:

[SN: Whitelocke orders a thanksgiving to God.]

    "Gentlemen,

    "I desire that we may all join together in applying these
    observations and mercies to the praise of God, and to the good of
    our own souls. Let me exhort you never to forget this deliverance
    and this signal mercy. While the love of God is warm upon our
    hearts, let us resolve to retain a thankful memory of it to our
    lives' end, and, for the time to come, to employ those lives, which
    God hath now given to us and renewed to us, to the honour and praise
    of Him, who hath thus most wonderfully and most mercifully revived
    us, and as it were new created us. Let us become new creatures;
    forsake your former lusts in your ignorance, and follow that God
    fully, who hath so eminently appeared for us, to save us out of our
    distress; and as God hath given us new lives, so let us live in
    newness of life and holiness of conversation."

Whitelocke caused his people to come into his cabin, where Mr. Ingelo prayed with them, and
returned praises to the Lord for this deliverance: an occasion sufficient to elevate his spirit,
and, meeting with his affections and abilities, tended the more to the setting forth His glory,
whose name they had so much cause more than others to advance and honour.

Many of the seamen came in to prayers, and Whitelocke talked with divers of them upon the mercy
they had received, who seemed to be much moved with the goodness of God to them; and Whitelocke
sought to make them and all the company sensible of God's gracious dealings, and to bring it
home to the hearts of them. He also held it a duty to leave to his own family this large relation,
and remembrance of the Lord's signal mercy to him and his; whereby they might be induced the
more to serve the God of their fathers, to trust in Him who never fails those that seek Him,
and to love that God entirely who hath manifested so much love to them, and that in their greatest
extremities; and hereby to endeavour that a grateful acknowledgment of the goodness and unspeakable
love of God might be transmitted to his children's children; that as God never forgets to be
gracious, so his servants may never forget to be thankful, but to express the thankfulness
of their hearts by the actions of their lives.

Whitelocke spent this night in discourses upon this happy subject, and went not to bed at all,
but expected the return of day; and, the more to express cheerfulness to the seamen, he promised
that as soon as light did appear, if they would up to the shrouds and top, he that could first
descry land should have his reward, and a bottle of good sack advantage.

June 29, 1654.

[SN: They make the coast of Norfolk.]

As soon as day appeared, the mariners claimed many rewards and bottles of sack, sundry of them
pretending to have first discovered land; and Whitelocke endeavoured to give them all content
in this day of rejoicing, God having been pleased to turn their sorrow into joy, by preserving
them in their great danger, and presently after by showing them their longed-for native country;
making them, when they were in their highest expectation of joy to arrive in their beloved
country, then to disappoint their hopes by casting them into the extremest danger--thus making
them sensible of the uncertainty of this world's condition, and checking perhaps their too
much earthly confidence, to let them see His power to control it, and to change their immoderate
expectation of joy into a bitter doubt of present death. Yet again, when He had made them sensible
thereof, to make his equal power appear for their deliverance when vain was the help of man,
and to bring them to depend more on him, then was He pleased to rescue them by his own hand
out of the jaws of death, and to restore them with a great addition to their former hopes of
rejoicing, by showing them their native coast,--the first thing made known to them after their
deliverance from perishing.

The day being clear, they found themselves upon the coast of Norfolk, and, as they guessed,
about eight leagues from Yarmouth, where they supposed their guns might be heard the last night.
The wind being good, Whitelocke ordered to weigh anchor, and they sailed along the coast, sometimes
within half a league of it, until they passed Orfordness and came to Oseley Bay, where they
again anchored, the weather being so thick with a great fog and much rain that they could not
discern the marks and buoys to avoid the sands, and to conduct them to the mouth of the river.
A short time after, the weather began to clear again, which invited them to weigh anchor and
put the ship under sail; but they made little way, that they might not hinder their sounding,
which Whitelocke directed, the better to avoid the danger of the sands, whereof this coast is full.

Near the road of Harwich the 'Elizabeth' appeared under sail on-head of the 'President,' who
overtaking her, Captain Minnes came on board to Whitelocke, who told him the condition they
had been in the last night, and expostulated with him to this purpose.

Whitelocke. Being in this distress, we fired divers guns, hoping that you, Captain Minnes,
could not but hear us and come in to our relief, knowing this to be the order of the sea in
such cases.

Minnes. My Lord, I had not the least imagination of your being in distress; but I confess I
heard your cannon, and believed them to be fired by reason of the fog, which is the custom
of the sea in such weather, to advertise one another where they are.

Wh. Upon such an occasion as the fog, seamen use to give notice to one another by two or three
guns, but I caused many more to be fired.

Minnes. I heard but four or five in all, and I answered your guns by firing some of mine.

Wh. We heard not one of your guns.

Minnes. That might be by reason we were to windward of you three leagues.

Wh. Why then did you not answer the lights which I caused to be set up?

Minnes. My Lord, those in my ship can witness that I set up lights again, and caused squibs
and fireworks to be cast up into the air, that you might thereby discern whereabouts we were.

Wh. It was strange that we could neither see yours nor you our lights.

Minnes. The greatness of the fog might occasion it.

Wh. The lights would appear through the fog as well as in the night.

Minnes. My Lord, I did all this.

Wh. It was contrary to my orders for you to keep so far off from me, and to be on-stern of
me three leagues; but this hath been your practice since we first came out to sea together;
and if you had been under the command of some others, as you were under mine, they would have
expected more obedience than you have given to my orders, or have taken another course with
you, which I can do likewise.

Minnes. My Lord, I endeavoured to get the wind of you, that I might thereby be able to keep
in your company, which otherwise I could not have done, you being so much fleeter than the
'Elizabeth;' but in the evenings I constantly came up to your Excellence.

Wh. Why did you not so the last night?

Minnes. The fog rose about five o'clock, and was so thick that we could not see two ships'
length before us. In that fog I lost you, and, fearing there might be danger in the night to
fall upon the coast, I went off to sea, supposing you had done so likewise, as, under favour,
your captain ought to have done; and for my obedience to your Excellency's commands, it hath
been and shall be as full and as willing as to any person living.

Wh. When you found by my guns that you were so far from me to the windward, you might fear
that I was fallen into that danger which you had avoided by keeping yourself under the wind
more at large at sea.

Minnes. If I had in the least imagined your Excellence to have been in danger, we had been
worse than Turks if we had not endeavoured to come in to your succour; and though it was impossible,
as we lay, for our ship to come up to your Excellence, yet I should have adventured with my
boats to have sought you out. But that you were in any danger was never in our thoughts; and
three hours after your guns fired, sounding, I found by the lead the red sand, which made me
think both your Excellence and we might be in the more danger, and I lay the further off from
them, but knew not where your Excellence was, nor how to come to you.

After much more discourse upon this subject, Captain Parkes pressing it against Minnes, who
answered well for himself, and showed that he was the better seaman in this action and in most
others, and in regard of the cause of rejoicing which God had given them, and that they now
were near the end of their voyage, Whitelocke held it not so good to continue the expostulation
as to part friends with Captain Minnes and with all his fellow-seamen, and so they proceeded
together lovingly and friendly in their voyage.

The wind not blowing at all, but being a high calm, they could advance no further than the
tide would carry them, the which failed them when they came to a place called Shoe, about four
leagues from the mouth of Thames. Having, through the goodness of God, passed by and avoided
many banks of sands and dangerous places, the wind failing them and the tide quite spent, they
were forced about seven o'clock in the evening to come to an anchor, Captain Minnes hard by
the 'President,' where, to make some pastime and diversion, he caused many squibs and fireworks
to be cast up into the air from the 'Elizabeth,' in which Minnes was very ingenious, and gave
recreation thereby to Whitelocke and to his company.

June 30, 1654.

[SN: Reach the Nore and Gravesend.]

Friday, the last of this month, was the fifth and last day of Whitelocke's voyage by sea from
the mouth of the Elbe to the mouth of the Thames. About twelve o'clock the last night the wind
began to blow very strong in the south-west, and by daybreak they had weighed anchor; and though
the wind was extreme high and a great tempest, yet such was their desire of getting into the
harbour, that, taking the benefit of the tide and by often tacking about, they yet advanced
three leagues in their course; and when the tide failed, they were forced to cast anchor at
the buoy in the Nore, the same place where Whitelocke first anchored when he came from England.
The pilots and mariners had much ado to manage their sails in this tempestuous weather; and
it was a great favour of God that they were not out at sea in these storms, but returned in
safety to the place where the kindness of God had before appeared to them.

In the afternoon the wind began to fall, and they weighed anchor, putting themselves under
sail and pursuing their course, till for want of day and of tide they were fain to cast anchor
a little above Gravesend, and it being very late, Whitelocke thought it would be too troublesome
to go on shore; but to keep his people together, and that they might all be the readier to
take the morning tide, he lay this night also on ship-board, but sent Earle and some others
that night to shore, to learn the news, and to provide boats against the morning for transportation
of Whitelocke and his company the next day to London.

Thus, after a long, most difficult, and most dangerous journey, negotiation, and voyage from
south to north in winter, and from north to south in summer, after the wonderful preservations
and deliverances which the Lord had been pleased to vouchsafe to them, He was also pleased,
in His free and constant goodness to His servants, to bring them all in safety and with comfort
again to their native country and dearest relations, and blessed with the success of their
employment, and with the wonderful appearances of God for them.

May it be the blessed portion of them all, never to forget the loving-kindness of the Lord,
but by these cords of love to be drawn nearer to Him, and to run after Him all the days of
their lives! To the end that those of his family may see what cause they have to trust in God
and to praise his name for his goodness, Whitelocke hath thought fit, hereby in writing, and
as a monument of God's mercy, to transmit the memory of these passages to his posterity.

FOOTNOTES:

[371] [Another instance of the fear of assassination or of death by poison, which at that time
haunted the Envoys of the Commonwealth abroad.]

JULY.

July 1, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke lands, and proceeds to his house at Chelsea.]

About three o'clock this morning good store of boats came from Gravesend to Whitelocke's ships,
to transport him, his company, and goods to London. By the help of the mariners, without much
delay the baggage was put on board the boats; and Whitelocke's people, after a perilous and
tedious voyage, were not backward to leave their ships and to set forward to London. Earle
was sent before to Greenwich, to acquaint Whitelocke's wife with his coming, lest sudden joy
and apprehensions might surprise her to her prejudice.

Whitelocke having distributed his rewards to the officers and seamen of both the frigates,
much to the same proportion as when he went forth, and giving them all his hearty thanks, he
went into a boat of six oars, his two sons and some of the gentlemen with him, the rest in
other boats. When they were gone about a musket-shot from the ships, both the frigates and
the fort fired their cannon for a parting salutation. The weather was cold, wet, and windy,
as if it had been still winter, but it was cheerfully endured, being the conclusion of a bad
voyage. Near Greenwich Earle met them, and informed Whitelocke that his family was at Chelsea,
whither he had sent advertisement of his coming.

Many of the company being much tired, sick, and wanting sleep, by their desire and for their
refreshment he staid a little time at the 'Bear' on the bridge-foot, and from thence to Whitehall,
where not finding the Protector, who was gone to Hampton Court, yet many of his friends meeting
him there, he was embraced by them with much show of joy, and heartily bid welcome home, blessing
God for his safe return and good success in his business.

From Whitehall Whitelocke went to his own house at Chelsea, where he found his wife and family
in good health, but in no small passion, surprised with the great and sudden joy, which ofttimes
brings no less disturbance to the tempers of people, especially of the more tender and affectionate
sex, than other surprises do; sudden fear, grief, and joy, are often equal in their operation
upon constitutions and affections. Nor was Whitelocke's wife alone in this surprise; another
with her, at the return of her husband, could not forbear, in all that company, her extraordinary
expressions of joy at the happy meeting of her own most near relation.

From the time of Whitelocke's departure from hence, to his entry into Upsal, Whitelocke spent
forty-seven days; five months he staid there, and in his return from Upsal to this place cost
him forty-three days; and in all these eight months' time of his absence from his dear relations
and country the Lord was pleased so to own him and his, and so graciously to preserve and prosper
them, that himself and a hundred persons in his company, after so long a journey, so great
a change of climate and accommodations, such hardships endured, such dangers surmounted through
His goodness, the business effected beyond the expectation of those who employed him, Whitelocke
and all his company were through mercy returned to their country and relations, in as good
condition and health as when they went forth, not one of them left behind dead or sick or impaired
in their health, but some improved and bettered therein. Only Whitelocke, being ancient, will
have cause to remember the decay of his strength and health by the hardships and difficulties
of this service; but more cause hath he to remember the wonderful goodness of God to him and
his company abroad and to his wife and family at home, in His blessing and preservation of
them, and in the comfort and safety of their meeting after so long and perilous a separation,
for which he is obliged to praise the name of God for ever.

After ceremonies past at his coming to his own house, Whitelocke sent Captain Beake to Hampton
Court, to acquaint the Protector with his return, to present his duty, and to receive his commands
when Whitelocke should wait upon his Highness to kiss his hand, and to give him an account
of his negotiation. Beake returned this evening from Hampton Court to Whitelocke with this
answer:--that the Protector expressed much joy at the news of the safe arrival of Whitelocke
and of his company in England; that he looked upon it as a mercy, and blessed God for it; and
that he much desired to see Whitelocke, and hoped, on Monday next, at Whitehall, to have his
company, who should be very welcome to him.

A little while after this message returned, there came two of the Protector's gentlemen, sent
by him to Chelsea in his name, to visit Whitelocke and to bid him welcome home, to inquire
of his health, and to testify the contentment the Protector received by Whitelocke's happy
return home, and that he hoped on Monday next to see him. Whitelocke desired the gentlemen
to present his humble thanks to the Protector for this great favour to inquire after so mean
a servant, who hoped to have the honour to wait upon his Highness at the time appointed by him.

July 2, 1654.

[SN: The Protector compliments Whitelocke on his return.]

The Lord's Day.--Whitelocke began to enjoy some more privacy and retirement than he had been
lately accustomed unto, and was at the public church with his wife and family, and courteously
saluted and bid welcome home by many. In the evening the Protector sent another compliment
to Whitelocke by Mr. Strickland, one of his Council, who came to Whitelocke's house, and told
him that he was sent by the Protector to salute him, and to inquire of his health after his
long and dangerous voyage, and to assure him of the great joy his Highness received by Whitelocke's
safe arrival in England, and the desire he had to see him, and personally to entertain him.
Whitelocke desired his most humble thanks might be returned to his Highness for this great
favour, giving him the opportunity of seeing so honourable a person as Strickland was, and
for taking such care of so poor a servant as Whitelocke, and to let his Highness know that
he should obey his Highness's commands in waiting on him the next day as he appointed.

July 3, 1654.

[SN: His audience of the Protector.]

Whitelocke came to Whitehall about nine o'clock this morning, where he visited Mr. Secretary
Thurloe, who brought him to the Protector, and he received Whitelocke with great demonstration
of affection, and carried him into his cabinet, where they were together about an hour, and
had this among other discourses:--

Protector. How have you enjoyed your health in your long journey, both by sea and land? and
how could you endure those hardships you were put unto in that barren and cold country?

Whitelocke. Indeed, Sir, I have endured many hardships for an old crazy carcase as mine is,
but God was pleased to show much mercy to me in my support under them, and vouchsafed me competent
health and strength to endure them.

Prot. I have heard of your quarters and lodging in straw, and of your diet in your journey;
we were not so hardly nor so often put to it in our service in the army.

Wh. Both my company and myself did cheerfully endure all our hardships and wants, being in
the service of our God and of our country.

Prot. That was also our support in our hardships in the army, and it is the best support, indeed
it is, and you found it so in the very great preservations you have had from dangers.

Wh. Your Highness hath had great experience of the goodness of God to you, and the same hand
hath appeared wonderfully in the preservation of my company and myself from many imminent and
great dangers both by sea and land.

Prot. The greatest of all other, I hear, was in your return home upon our coast.

Wh. That indeed, Sir, was very miraculous.

Prot. I am glad to see you safe and well after it.

Wh. I have cause to bless God with all thankfulness for it as long as I live.

Prot. I pray, my Lord, tell me the particulars of that great deliverance.

Thereupon Whitelocke gave a particular account of the passages of that wonderful preservation;
then the Protector said:--

Prot. Really these passages are full of wonder and mercy; and I have cause to join with you
in acknowledgment of the goodness of the Lord herein.

Wh. Your Highness testifies a true sense thereof, and your favour to your servant.

Prot. I hope I shall never forget the one or the other,--indeed I hope I shall not; but, I
pray, tell me, is the Queen a lady of such rare parts as is reported of her?

Wh. Truly, Sir, she is a lady excellently qualified, of rare abilities of mind, perfect in
many languages, and most sorts of learning, especially history, and, beyond compare with any
person whom I have known, understanding the affairs and interest of all the States and Princes
of Christendom.

Prot. That is very much; but what are her principles in matters of religion?

Wh. They are not such as I could wish they were;[435] they are too much inclined to the manner
of that country, and to some persuasions from men not well inclined to those matters, who have
had too much power with her.

Prot. That is a great deal of pity; indeed I have heard of some passages of her, not well relishing
with those that fear God; and this is too general an evil among those people, who are not so
well principled in matters of religion as were to be wished.

Wh. That is too true; but many sober men and good Christians among them do hope, that in time
there may be a reformation of those things; and I took the boldness to put the Queen and the
present King in mind of the duty incumbent upon them in that business; and this I did with
becoming freedom, and it was well taken.

Prot. I think you did very well to inform them of that great duty which now lies upon the King;
and did he give ear to it?

Wh. Yes truly, Sir, and told me that he did acknowledge it to be his duty, which he resolved
to pursue as opportunity could be had for it; but he said, it must be done by degrees with
a boisterous people, so long accustomed to the contrary. And the like answer I had from the
Archbishop of Upsal, and from the Chancellor, when I spoke to them upon the same subject, which
I did plainly.

Prot. I am glad you did so. Is the Archbishop a man of good abilities?

Wh. He is a very reverend person, learned, and seems very pious.

Prot. The Chancellor is the great wise man.

Wh. He is the wisest man that ever I conversed with abroad, and his abilities are fully answerable
to the report of him.

Prot. What character do you give of the present King?

Wh. I had the honour divers times to be with his Majesty, who did that extraordinary honour
to me as to visit me at my house; he is a person of great worth, honour, and abilities, and
not inferior to any in courage and military conduct.

Prot. That was an exceeding high favour, to come to you in person.

Wh. He never did the like to any public minister. But this, and all other honour done to me,
was but to testify their respects to your Highness, the which indeed was very great, both there,
and where I passed in Germany.

Prot. I am obliged to them for their very great civility.

Wh. Both the Queen, and the King, and his brother, and the Archbishop, and the Chancellor,
and most of the grandees, gave testimony of very great respect to your Highness, and that not
only by their words, but by their actions likewise.

Prot. I shall be ready to acknowledge their respects upon any occasion.

Wh. The like respects were testified to your Highness in Germany, especially by the town of
Hamburg; where I endeavoured, in your Highness's name, to confirm the privileges of the English
merchants, who, with your Resident there, showed much kindness to me and my company.

Prot. I shall heartily thank them for it. Is the Court of Sweden gallant, and full of resort to it?

Wh. They are extreme gallant for their clothes; and for company, most of the nobility and the
civil and military officers make their constant residence where the Court is, and many repair
thither on all occasions.

Prot. Is their administration of justice speedy? and have they many law-suits?

Wh. They have justice in a speedier way than with us, but more arbitrary, and fewer causes,
in regard that the boors dare not contend with their lords; and they have but few contracts,
because they have but little trade; and there is small use of conveyances or questions of titles,
because the law distributes every man's estate after his death among his children, which they
cannot alter, and therefore have the fewer contentions.

Prot. That is like our gavelkind.

Wh. It is the same thing; and in many particulars of our laws, in cases of private right, and
of the public Government, especially in their Parliaments, there is a strange resemblance between
their law and ours.

Prot. Perhaps ours might some of them be brought from thence.

Wh. Doubtless they were, when the Goths and Saxons, and those northern people, planted themselves
here.

Prot. You met with a barren country, and very cold.

Wh. The remoter parts of it from the Court are extreme barren; but at Stockholm and Upsal,
and most of the great towns, they have store of provisions; but fat beef and mutton in the
winter-time is not so plentiful with them as in the countries more southerly; and their hot
weather in summer as much exceeds ours, as their cold doth in winter.

Prot. That is somewhat troublesome to endure; but how could you pass over their very long winter
nights?

Wh.

Prot. Those were very good diversions, and made your house a little academy.

Wh. I thought these recreations better than gaming for money, or going forth to places of debauchery.

Prot. It was much better. And I am glad you had so good an issue of your treaty.

Wh. I bless God for it, and shall be ready to give your Highness a particular account of it,
when you shall appoint a time for it.

Prot. I think that Thursday next, in the morning, will be a good time for you to come to the
Council, and to make your report of the transactions of your negotiation; and you and I must
have many discourses upon these arguments.

Wh. I shall attend your Highness and the Council.

July 4, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke's friends celebrate his return.]

This day was spent in visits, very much company resorting to Whitelocke's house to bid him
welcome into England, so that, by the multitude of company, he had not any opportunity of recollecting
himself and his thoughts, touching the matters which he was to communicate to the Council the
next day; but it could not be avoided, and he must take such time as would be afforded him.

July 5, 1654.

[SN: A solemn thanksgiving for his safe return.]

By Whitelocke's appointment, all his company who were with him in Sweden, came this day to
his house at Chelsea, where divers others of his good friends met them, to the intent they
might all join together in returning humble and hearty thanks to God for his great mercy and
goodness to them, in their preservation and wonderful deliverances in their voyage, in blessing
them with health and with success in their business, and bringing all of them in safety and
comfort to their native country and most dear relations.

Being for this end met together in a large room prepared for them, they began the duty; and
first, Mr. Peters acquainted them with the occasion of the meeting, recommending all to the
direction and assistance of the Lord. He spoke to them upon the Psalm pertinent to the occasion,
and to the mention of the voyage, hardships, dangers, and difficulties, wherein God had delivered
them; and what sense these things ought to work upon their hearts, and what thankfulness they
ought to return to God for his mercies.

After a psalm sung, Mr. Ingelo, one of Whitelocke's chaplains, prayed with them, and then amplified
the favours and deliverances which God had wrought for them, the great difficulties and dangers
wherein He had preserved them, and their unworthiness of any mercy; he exhorted them to all
gratitude to the Author of their mercies: in all which he expressed himself with much piety,
ingenuity, and with great affection. Mr. George Downing, who had been a chaplain to a regiment
in the army, expounded a place of Scripture very suitable to the occasion, and very ingeniously
and pertinently. After him, Mr. Stapleton prayed very well, and spake pertinently and feelingly
to the rest of the company, his fellow-travellers. Then they sang another psalm; and after
that, Mr. Cokaine spake very well and piously, and gave good exhortations on the same subject.

[SN: Whitelocke's address to his company.]

When all these gentlemen had ended their discourses proper for the occasion, Whitelocke himself
spake to the company to this effect:--

    "Gentlemen,

    "You have heard from our worthy Christian friends many words of
    precious truth, with which I hope all our souls are refreshed, and
    do pray that our practice may be conformed. The duty of this day,
    and of every person, is gratiarum actio: I wish we may all act
    thankfulness to our God, whereunto we are all obliged who have
    received so great benefits from Him. In a more peculiar manner than
    others I hold myself obliged to render thanks--

    "1. To our God, who hath preserved us all, and brought us in safety
    and comfort to our dear country and relations.

    "2. To our Christian friends, from whom we have received such
    powerful instructions this day, and prayers all the days of our
    absence.

    "3. To you, Gentlemen, who have shown so much affection and respect
    in bearing me company in a journey so full of hardships and dangers.

    "I am of the opinion of the Roman soldier who told Cæsar, 'I have in
    my own person fought for thee, and therefore that the Emperor ought
    in his own person to plead for the soldier' (which he did); and have
    in your own persons endured all the hardships, difficulties, and
    dangers with me: and were I as able as Cæsar, I hold myself as much
    obliged in my own person to serve you, and, to the utmost of my
    capacity, shall do all good offices for any of you, who have, with
    so much affection, respect, and hazard, adventured your persons with
    me.

    "I am obliged, and do return my hearty thanks, to our worthy
    friends who have so excellently performed the work of the day, and
    shall pray that it may be powerful upon every one of our hearts, to
    build us up in the knowledge of this duty; and I should be glad to
    promise, in the name of all my company, that we shall give a ready
    and constant observance of those pious instructions we have received
    from you.

    "Some here have been actors with us in our story; have gone down to
    the sea in ships and done business in great waters; have seen the
    works of God and His wonders in the deep; His commanding and raising
    the stormy wind, lifting up the waves thereof, which mount up to the
    heavens and go down again to the deep, whose souls have melted
    because of trouble, and have been at their wits' end: then have
    cried unto the Lord in their distress, and He hath brought them out
    of trouble. We have seen Him make the storm a calm, and the waves
    thereof still: then were we glad, and He brought us to our desired
    harbour. Oh that we would praise the Lord for His goodness, for His
    wonderful works! Let us exalt Him in the congregation of the people,
    and praise Him in the assembly of the elders.

    "These my companions, who have been actors, and others, I hope will
    give me leave to make them auditors of some special providences of
    the Lord, wherein we may all reap benefit from the relation. The
    Apostle saith, 2 Pet. i., 'Wherefore I will not be negligent to put
    you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them, and
    be established in the present truth.' To all I may say, with the
    wise man (Prov. viii.), 'Hear! for I will speak of excellent
    things,' free mercies, great deliverances, wonderful preservations:
    excellent things to those who were sharers of them in action, and
    for the contemplation of those who are hearers of them; therefore I
    may shortly recite some of the most eminent of them.

    "In the first day of our voyage with a fair wind, at night it
    changed, and we were stopped till comfortable letters came to me,
    which otherwise could not have come, and were no sooner answered but
    the wind came fair again. When we toiled in the open sea with cross
    winds and tempests, driven near to our own coast back again, God
    sent us then fair weather and a good gale for our voyage. How was He
    pleased to bring us so very near great danger on the Riff, and then
    bring us safe off from it and hold on our course again!

    "When we were in no small danger in the tempestuous seas on the back
    of the Skaw, when the anchors dragged a league in one night with the
    storm, and every moment we expected to be devoured by the raging
    waves, there the Lord was also our deliverer; as He also was upon
    the rocky coast of Norway and in the difficult passage to the
    harbour of Gothenburg. Throughout our voyage the providence of God
    watched over us and protected us. Thus did He in our land journey,
    where the extreme hardships we were put unto are sufficiently known
    to all of us, and will to our life's end be felt by some of us.

    "My particular preservation was wonderful from an intended
    assassination by one who thrust himself into my company to have the
    better opportunity to execute it; but, overcome with kindness, his
    heart relented, and he forsook his purpose and my company.

    "If the snow had fallen (as in other years) in the time of our
    travel, we could not have passed our journey; but He who rules the
    heavens and the earth restrained it till we came within half a day
    of our journey's end, and in safety He conducted us to Upsal. The
    same Providence kept us there, and when some of our company were
    sick and hurt, restored health again.

    "It was marvellous and unexpected, that in a foreign country, at
    such a distance from friends and acquaintance, God should raise us
    up friends out of strangers, namely the Queen, foreign ministers,
    and great officers, in whose sight we found wonderful favour, to our
    preservation under God and a great means of effecting what we came
    about, maugre the labours and designs of our enemies against it, and
    their plots and attempts for our destruction, had not our Rock of
    Defence secured us.

    "I should detain you very long, though I hope it would not be
    thought too long, to recite all our remarkable mercies; and it is an
    excellent thing that they are so numerous. We are now coming
    homewards. How did our God preserve us over the Baltic Sea from
    innumerable dangers of the rocks, sands, coasts, islands, fierce
    lightnings, storms, and those high-swelling waters! Such was our
    preservation in the Elbe, when our countrymen leaped into the water
    to bring us off from danger, and when the tempests hurried us up and
    down, by Heligoland, then towards Holland, then to the northward,
    then to the southward, in the open breaking rough seas, when we had
    lost our course and knew not where we were.

    "Above all other was that most eminent deliverance near our own
    coast, when our ship was stuck upon the sand twelve leagues from any
    shore, when no help nor human means were left to save us, when pale
    death faced us so long together, when no hopes remained to escape
    his fury or the rages of the waves, which we expected every instant
    to swallow us; even then, to show where our dependence ought to be,
    our God would make it His own work to deliver us. He it was that
    raised the wind, and brought it from the higher part of the bank, to
    shake our fastened ship, and crumble the loose sands; and no sooner
    had we taken a resolution of praying and resigning our souls to God,
    but He gave us our lives again, moving our ship by His powerful arm,
    making it to float again, none knowing how or by what means, but by
    the free act of His mercy, and not a return of ours, but of the
    prayers of some here present, and divers others our Christian
    friends, who at that very time were met together to seek the Lord
    for us and for our safe return.

    "Methinks the hearts of us who were partakers of these mercies
    should rejoice in the repetition of them, and those that hear them
    cannot but say they hear excellent things; and certainly never had
    any men more cause than we have of returning humble and hearty
    thanks to God who hath thus saved us.

    "And having received these mercies, and been delivered out of these
    distresses, I may say to you, as Jacob said to his household (Gen.
    xxxv.), 'Let us arise and go to Bethel;' let us serve God and praise
    His name who answered us in the day of our distress, and was with us
    in the way which we went. Let us also keep Jacob's vow: 'The Lord
    hath been with us and kept us in our way, and brought us again to
    our fathers' house in peace; let the Lord be our God.' Let not any
    of our former vanities or lusts, or love of the world, be any more
    our God, but let the Lord be our God; let our thanksgiving appear in
    owning the Lord for our God, and in walking answerable to our
    mercies; let our prayers be according to the counsel of the Apostle
    (Eph. v.), 'See then that ye walk circumspectly, giving thanks
    always for all things.' How much more are we bound to do it from our
    special mercies!

    "Gentlemen, give me leave to conclude with my particular thanks to
    you who accompanied me in my journey, and have manifested very much
    respect, care, diligence, courage, and discretion. You have, by your
    demeanour, done honour to our profession of religion, to our
    country, to yourselves, to your Ambassador, who will be ready to
    testify the same on all occasions, and to do you all good offices;
    chiefly in bearing you company to return praises to our God, whose
    mercies endure for ever."

After these exercises performed, wherein Whitelocke was the more large in manifesting the abounding
of his sense of the goodness of God towards him, and was willing also to recollect his thoughts
for another occasion, the company retired themselves; and Whitelocke complimented his particular
friends, giving them many thanks who had shown kindness to his wife and family, and had taken
care of his affairs in his absence.

[SN: A banquet held in State, as in Sweden.]

He bid them all welcome, and desired them to accompany company him the next day to his audience
before the Protector and Council. Then he led them into a great room, where the table was spread,
and all things in the same state and manner as he used to have them in Sweden, that his friends
might see the fashion of his being served when he was in that condition, and as his farewell
to those pomps and vanities.

The trumpets sounding, meat was brought in, and the mistress of the house made it appear that
England had as good and as much plenty of provisions as Sweden, Denmark, or Germany. His friends
and company sat down to meat as they used to do in Sweden; the attendants, pages, lacqueys,
and others, in their liveries, did their service as they were accustomed abroad. Their discourse
was full of cheerfulness and recounting of God's goodness; and both the time of the meat and
the afternoon was spent in rejoicing together for the present mercy, and for the whole series
of God's goodness to them; and in the evening they parted, every one to his own quarters.

July 6, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke give an account of his Embassy to the Council.]

Whitelocke went in the morning early to Whitehall. At Secretary Thurloe's lodging he found
most of his company, the gentlemen in their habits, the others in their liveries; and in a
short time they were all come together, to attend their Ambassador to his last audience, who
was put to the patience of staying an hour and a half at Master Secretary's lodging before
he was called in to his Highness; then, being sent for, he went, attended in the same manner
as he used to go to his audiences in Sweden. Being come to the outward room, he was presently
brought into the Council-chamber, where the Protector sat in his great chair at the upper end
of the table, covered, and his Council sat bare on each side of the table. After ceremonies
performed by Whitelocke, and great respect shown him by the Protector and his Council, Whitelocke
spake to this effect:--

    "May it please your Highness,

    "I attend, by your command, to give an account of the discharge of
    that great trust and weighty burden which, through the assistance of
    God, I have undergone in my employment to Sweden, and with the
    success of that negotiation, wherein I shall not waste much of your
    time, for which you have other great affairs; but, in as few words
    as I can, I shall with clearness and truth acquaint your Highness
    and your Honourable Council with those matters which I apprehend
    most fit and worthy of your knowledge.

    "After the receipt of my commission and instructions from the
    Parliament then sitting, to go Ambassador to Sweden, I neglected no
    time, how unseasonable soever, to transport myself to that country.
    Upon the 5th of November I embarked at the Hope, and after ten days'
    voyage, through many storms, enemies, and dangers, it pleased God on
    the 15th of November to bring me in safety, with all my company,
    into the port of Gothenburg. The next day I despatched two of my
    servants to the Court with letters to Prince Adolphus, the Grand
    Master, and to the Ricks-Chancellor of Sweden, to advertise them of
    my arrival, and to desire their advice whither to direct my journey
    to attend the Queen.

    "In this city I received many civilities and testimonies of respect
    to your Highness and this Commonwealth from the magistrates,
    officers, and others there; and a small contest I had with a
    Dutchman, a Vice-Admiral of her Majesty's, about our war with his
    countrymen, and about some prizes brought in by me, wherein I took
    the liberty to justify the proceedings of this State, and ordered,
    upon submission, the release of a small Dutch prize taken by me.

    "Having refreshed myself and company some days, I began my land
    journey the last day of November. The military officers accompanied
    me out of town; the citizens and garrison-soldiers stood to their
    arms, and with many volleys of great and small shot (the bullets
    passing somewhat too near for compliments) they gave me an
    honourable farewell.

    "In our journey we met with extreme hardships, both in the weather
    and in want of necessary accommodations. The greater towns where we
    quartered showed much respect to your Highness and this
    Commonwealth; only in one town a little affront was given in words
    by a prætor, who acknowledged his fault, and it appeared to proceed
    more from drink than judgement. In all places the officers took
    great care, with what the country would afford, to furnish what I
    wanted; the ways were prepared, waggons and horses brought in, and
    all things requisite were done by the country, upon command of her
    Majesty.

    "After twenty-one days in our land-journey, near four hundred miles
    from Gothenburg up into the country, in that climate in December, it
    pleased God through all our difficulties to bring us safe to Upsal
    the 20th of December. About half a league from the town, the Master
    of the Ceremonies, and after him two Senators with two coaches of
    the Queen's, and those of the Spanish Resident and of divers
    grandees, met me, and with more than ordinary ceremony conducted me
    to a house in the town, by the Queen's order taken up and furnished
    for me. Divers compliments passed from the Queen herself and many of
    her Court, expressing much respect to your Highness and this
    Commonwealth, in the person of your servant.

    "By favour I obtained my first audience from the Queen the 23rd of
    December, the particular passages whereof (as of most other matters
    which I have to mention) were in my letters imparted, as they arose,
    to Mr. Secretary Thurloe, and by him, I presume, to your Highness
    and the Council. Two or three days after this I procured a private
    audience from her Majesty, when I showed her my commission, and took
    time to wait on her with my proposals.

    "The Spanish Resident, Don Piementelle, now in this Court, expressed
    high respects for your Highness and this Commonwealth, and
    particular affection to me; and I, knowing his great favour with the
    Queen and his own worth, contracted an intimacy of friendship with
    him, as I had also with M. Woolfeldt, the King of Denmark's
    brother-in-law, with Field-Marshal Wrangel, Grave Tott, the Queen's
    favourite, and with divers senators and great men, but especially
    with the old Chancellor.

    "I found very useful for your Highness's service there Mr.
    Lagerfeldt, Secretary Canterstein, Mr. Ravius, and others; and I had
    good assistance from my countrymen, General-Major Fleetwood, a true
    friend to England, my Lord Douglas, Colonel Hamilton, and others.

    "And having now given your Highness some account of persons, I come
    to the matter of my negotiation, which I laid the best I could.

    "By advice I made my applications to the Queen herself, and, as much
    as I could, put the business upon her personal determination, which
    she liked, and it proved advantageous. I presented to her at once
    all my articles, except three reserved. The articles proposed a
    league offensive and defensive; whereupon she objected the
    unsettledness of our Commonwealth, the present peace of her
    kingdoms, and our being involved in a war. To which I answered, that
    her kingdoms could not long continue in peace, and would have as
    much need of our assistance as we of theirs; and our war and
    successes against Holland were arguments that our friendship merited
    acceptance; that I hoped our Commonwealth was settled, and that
    leagues were between nations, not governments.

    "This debate was very large with her Majesty, who seemed satisfied
    with my answers, and appointed her Chancellor to treat with me; who
    much more insisted upon the unsettledness of our Commonwealth and
    upon the same objections which the Queen had made, and received from
    me the same answers; which proved the more satisfactory after the
    news of your Highness's accession to the Government, which made this
    treaty proceed more freely.

    "I had often and long disputes with the Chancellor upon the article
    touching English rebels being harboured in Sweden; most of all,
    touching contraband goods, and about reparation of the losses of the
    Swedes by prizes taken from them in our Dutch war by us, besides
    many other objections, whereof I have given a former account by
    letters. The Chancellor being sick, his son Grave Eric was
    commissioned to treat with me in his father's stead, and was much
    more averse to my business, and more earnest upon the objections,
    than the old man, whom, being recovered, I found more moderate, yet
    we could not agree one way or other. And when I pressed for a
    conclusion, both the Queen and her Chancellor did ingenuously
    acknowledge, that they desired first to see whether the peace would
    be made between us and Holland, before they came to a determination
    upon my treaty; wherein I could not but apprehend reason: and when
    the news came that the peace between your Highness and the Dutch was
    concluded, I urged a conclusion of my treaty; and what the
    Chancellor and I differed in, the Queen was pleased to reconcile,
    and so we came to the full agreement contained in this instrument,
    signed and sealed by the Queen's Commissioners, which I humbly
    present to your Highness and this Honourable Board; and which I
    hope, through the goodness of God, may be of advantage to this
    Commonwealth, and to the Protestant interest."

Here Whitelocke, making a little pause, delivered into the Protector's hand the instrument
of his treaty, fairly written in Latin, in a book of vellum, with the hands and seals to it
of the Ricks-Chancellor and his son Grave Eric, which being done, Whitelocke went on in his speech.

    "I cannot but acknowledge the great goodness of God to me in this
    employment, in my preservation from attempts against my person,
    raising me up such eminent friends, giving me so much favour in the
    eyes of strangers, inclining the Queen's heart to an extraordinary
    affection and favour towards me, and giving this good success to my
    business, notwithstanding the designs and labours of many enemies to
    the contrary. The treaty with me being thus finished, the business
    came on of the Queen's resignation of the Crown, wherein she was
    pleased to express a great confidence in a stranger, by imparting it
    to me many weeks before, whereof I took the boldness to certify your
    Highness.

    "The Prince who was to succeed the Queen was sent for to Upsal, and
    their Ricksdag, or Parliament, was to meet there in the beginning of
    May. Your Highness will not expect many arguments of your servant's
    longing desires of returning, when he had advice that your frigates
    sent for him were in the Elbe; yet, judging it might conduce to your
    service to salute the Prince, I staid till his entry (which was in
    great state) into Upsal, where I saluted him from your Highness, and
    acquainted him with my negotiation, which he well approved; and, to
    testify his great respect to your Highness and this Commonwealth, he
    came in person to visit me at my house, and used me with so much
    extraordinary favour and ceremony, that never the like had been done
    before to any ambassador. We had several conferences at large, much
    discourse of your Highness and of this Commonwealth, with the
    particulars whereof I shall acquaint you at your better leisure.

    "The time of the Queen's resignation being near, I thought it not
    convenient for me to be then upon the place, but removed to
    Stockholm; where I was when the resignation and new coronation were
    solemnized at Upsal. The magistrates of Stockholm expressed good
    respect to your Highness and this Commonwealth. From hence I
    embarked the 1st of June, in a good ship of the Queen's, to cross
    the Baltic Sea. She sent one of her Vice-Admirals, Clerke, to attend
    me; and, after a dangerous voyage and bad weather, the Lord gave us
    a safe arrival at Lübeck, on the 7th of June. The magistrates, by
    their Syndic, here bid me welcome and expressed some respect, and
    made some requests by me to your Highness.

    "From Lübeck I travelled over Holstein and Lüneburg, and came the
    10th of June to Hamburg; where I was also very civilly saluted by
    some of the magistrates and Syndic; and most of the Lords came
    afterwards to me, and testified extraordinary respect and service to
    your Highness and this Commonwealth. My countrymen, the company of
    Merchant Adventurers there, showed very much kindness to me, and I
    endeavoured to do them service to the Lords of the town, making use
    of your Highness's name therein.

    "I departed from Hamburg the 17th of June; Mr. Bradshaw, your
    Highness's worthy Resident there, and others of my countrymen,
    showing much kindness to me, both whilst I was there and at my
    departure from this city. I embarked in your Highness's frigate,
    near Glückstadt, but was detained for some days in the Elbe by cross
    winds, and in some danger, but in more when we came into the open
    sea. But above all, the Lord was pleased to appear for us on the
    28th day of June, when our ship stuck upon the sands, above twelve
    leagues off from the coast of Yarmouth: and when there was no means
    or help of men for our escape, but we expected every moment to be
    drowned by the waves, then it pleased God to show his power and free
    mercy by his own hand to deliver us, and, after two hours'
    expectation of death, to reprieve us, to set our ship on float
    again, and to bring us all in health and safety to your Highness's
    presence, and to our dear country and relations.

    "The Queen and the new King were pleased to honour me with jewels
    off their pictures, and a gift of copper, I having bestowed my
    horses (of more worth) on them and whom they appointed, and which I
    refused to sell, as a thing uncomely for my condition in your
    Highness's service.

    "Thus, Sir, I have given you a clear and full account of my
    transactions; and, as I may justify my own diligence and
    faithfulness therein, so I cannot but condemn my many weaknesses and
    failings; of which I can only say that they were not wilful, and
    make a humble demand to your Highness and this honourable Council,
    that I may obtain your pardon."

When Whitelocke had ended his speech and a little pause made, the Protector, pulling off his
hat and presently putting it on again, desired Whitelocke to withdraw, which he did, and within
a quarter of an hour was called in again. The Protector, using the same ceremony as before,
spake to him to this effect:--

[SN: Cromwell's answer to his speech.]

    "My Lord,

