Virtue is the child of good habits, and the formation of habits may be said to almost constitute
the whole work of education. The mother can create habits which shall mold character and enable
the mind to maintain that habitual sense of duty which gives command over the passions, and
power to fight temptation, and which makes obedience to principle comparatively easy, under
most circumstances. The social and domestic life are marred by habits which have grown into
a second nature. It is not in an occasional act of civility that the charm of either home or
society consists, but in continued practice of courtesy and respect for the rights and feelings
of those around us. Whatever may be the precepts for a home, the practices of the fireside
will give form to the habits. Parents who indulge in gossip, scandal, slander and tale-telling,
will rear children possessing the same tastes and deteriorating habits. A parent's example
outlines the child's character. It sinks down deep into his heart and influences his whole
life for good or for evil. A parent should carefully avoid speaking evil of others, and should
never exhibit faults requiring the mantle of charity to cover. A parent's example should be
such as to excite an abhorrence of evil speaking, of tattling and of uncharitable construction
of the motives of others. Let the mother begin the proper training of her children in early
life and she will be able to so mold their characters that not only will they acquire the habit
of bridling the tongue, but they will learn to avoid the presence of the slanderer as they
do a deadly viper.

POLITENESS AT HOME.

Genuine politeness is a great fosterer of domestic love, and those who are habitually polished
at home are those who exhibit good manners when abroad. When parents receive any little attention
from their children, they should thank them for it. They should ask a favor only in a courteous
way; never reply to questions in monosyllables, or indulge in the rudeness of paying no attention
to a question, for such an example will be surely followed by the children. Parents sometimes
thoughtlessly allow their children to form habits of disrespect in the home circle, which crop
out in the bad manners that are found in society.

HOW TO REPROVE.

Parents should never check expressions of tenderness in their children, nor humiliate them
before others. This will not only cause suffering to little sensitive hearts, but will tend
to harden them. Reproof, if needed, should be administered to each child singly and alone.

CHEERFULNESS AT THE TABLE.

Children should not be prohibited from laughing and talking at the table. Joyousness promotes
the circulation of the blood, enlivens and invigorates it, and sends it to all parts of the
system, carrying with it animation, vigor and life. Controversy should not be permitted at
the table, nor should any subjects which call forth political or religious difference. Every
topic introduced should be calculated to instruct, interest or amuse. Business matters, past
disappointments and mishaps should not be alluded to, nor should bad news be spoken of at the
table, nor for half an hour before. All conversation should be of joyous and gladsome character,
such as will bring out pleasant remarks and agreeable associations. Reproof should never be
administered at the table, either to a child or to a servant; no fault found with anything,
and no unkind word should be spoken. If remarks are to be made of absent ones, they should
be of a kind and charitable nature. Thus will the family table be the center of pleasant memories
in future years, when the family shall have been scattered far and near, and some, perhaps,
have been laid in their final resting-place.

TRAIN CHILDREN FOR SOME OCCUPATION.

Chancellor Kent says: "Without some preparation made in youth for the sequel of life, children
of all conditions would probably become idle and vicious when they grow up, from want of good
instruction and habits, and the means of subsistence, or from want of rational and useful occupations.
A parent who sends his son into the world without educating him in some art, science, profession
or business, does great injury to mankind, as well as to his son and his own family, for he
defrauds the community of a useful citizen, and bequeaths to it a nuisance. That parent who
trains his child for some special occupation, who inspires him with a feeling of genuine self-respect,
has contributed a useful citizen to society."

BAD TEMPER.

Dread an insubordinate temper, and deal with it as one of the greatest evils. Let the child
feel by your manner that he is not a safe companion for the rest of the family when he is in
anger. Allow no one to speak to him at such times, not even to answer a question. Take from
him books, and whatever he may have, and place him where he shall feel that the indulgence
of a bad temper shall deprive him of all enjoyment, and he will soon learn to control himself.

SELFISHNESS.

Selfishness that binds the miser in his chains, that chills the heart, must never be allowed
a place in the family circle. Teach the child to share his gifts and pleasures with others,
to be obliging, kind and benevolent, and the influence of such instruction may come back into
your own bosom, to bless your latest hours.

HOME MAXIMS FOR TRAINING CHILDREN.

Remember that children are men and women in miniature, and though they should be allowed to
act as children, still our dealings with them should be manly and not morose. Remember also
that every word, tone and gesture, nay, even your dress, makes an impression.

Never correct a child on suspicion, or without understanding the whole matter, nor trifle with
a child's feelings when under discipline.

Be always mild and cheerful in their presence, communicative, but never extravagant, trifling
or vulgar in language or gesture. Never trifle with a child nor speak beseechingly when it
is doing wrong.

Always follow commands with a close and careful watch, until the thing is done, allowing no
evasion and no modification, unless the child ask for it, and it be expressly granted.

Never reprove children severely in company, nor hold them up to ridicule, nor make light of
their failings.

Never speak in an impatient, pitiful manner, if you have occasion to find fault.

Never say to a child, "I don't believe what you say," nor even imply your doubts. If you have
such feelings, keep them to yourself and wait; the truth will eventually be made plain.

Never disappoint the confidence a child places in you, whether it be a thing placed in your
care or a promise.

Always give prompt attention to a child when he speaks, so as to prevent repeated calls, and
that he may learn to give prompt attention when you call him.

Never try to impress a child with religious truth when in anger, or talk to him of God, as
it will not have the desired effect. Do it under more favorable circumstances.

At the table a child should be taught to sit up and behave in a becoming manner, not to tease
when denied, nor to leave his chair without asking. A parent's wish at such time should be
a law from which no appeal should be made.

Even in sickness gentle restraint is better for a child than indulgence.

There should never be two sets of manners, the one for home and the other for company, but
a gentle behavior should be always required.

CHAPTER XX.

Home Culture.

The work of home culture should be made a matter of great importance to every one, for upon
it depends the happiness of earthly homes, as well as our fitness for the enjoyment of the
eternal home in heaven. The sufferings endured here, friend for friend, parents for children,
unrequited sacrifices, cares and tears, all tend to discipline us, and prepare us for the recompense
which eternity brings.

CULTIVATE MORAL COURAGE.

Moral courage will be cultivated in your children as they observe that you say and do whatever
you conscientiously believe to be right and true, without being influenced by the views of
others; thus showing them that you fear nothing so much as failing to do your duty. Perhaps
this may be difficult to do, but every mother can at least show her appreciation of moral courage
when she sees it exhibited by others, and in this way incite its growth in the souls of her
children. Moral courage is a rare endowment, and those who possess it are able to act with
perfect independence of the opinions of others, and govern themselves only by the laws of propriety,
uprightness and charity.

THE PERNICIOUS INFLUENCE OF INDOLENCE.

If you would preserve your children from the pernicious influence of indolence and all its
corrupting tendencies, you must be earnest in purpose, active, energetic and fervent in spirit.
Earnestness sharpens the faculties; indolence corrodes and dulls them. By the former we rise
higher and higher, by the latter we sink lower and lower. Indolence begets discontent, envy
and jealousy, while labor elevates the mind and character. Cultivate in your children habits
of thought which will keep their minds occupied upon something that will be of use or advantage,
and prevent them from acquiring habits of idleness, if you would secure their future well-being.

It has been said that he who performs no useful act in society, who makes no human being happier,
is leading a life of utter selfishness--a life of sin--for a life of selfishness is a life
of sin. There is nowhere room for idleness. Work is both a duty and a necessity of our nature,
and a befitting reward will ever follow it. To foster and encourage labor in some useful form,
is a duty which parents should urge upon their children, if they should seek their best good.

SELF-RESPECT.

It is the mother's duty to see that her children protect themselves from the many pit-falls
which surround them, such as malice, envy, conceit, avariciousness, and other evils, by being
clad in the armor of self-respect; and then they will be able to encounter temptation and corruption,
unstained and unpolluted. This feeling of self-respect is something stronger than self-reliance,
higher than pride. It is an energy of the soul which masters the whole being for its good,
watching with a never-ceasing vigilance. It is the sense of duty and the sense of honor combined.
It is an armor, which, though powerless to shield from sorrows that purify and invigorate,
yet will avert all hostile influences that assail, from whatever source they come. The mother
having once made her children conscious that always and everywhere they carry with them such
an angel to shield, warn and rescue them, may let them go out into the world, and fear nothing
from the wiles and temptations which may beset them.

RESULTS OF GOOD-BREEDING IN THE HOME CIRCLE.

The laws of good-breeding in no place bear more gratifying results than in the home circle.
Here, tempered with love, and nurtured by all kindly impulses, they bear the choicest fruit.
A true lady will show as much courtesy, and observe the duties of politeness as unfailingly,
toward every member of her family as toward her most distinguished guest. A true gentleman
will feel bound to exercise courtesy and kindness in his intercourse with those who depend
upon him for protection and example. Children influenced by such examples at home, will never
fail to show to their elders the respect due them, to their young companions the same consideration
for their feelings which they expect to meet with in return, nor to servants that patience
which even the best too often require. In such a home peace and good will are the household gods.

FAULT-FINDING AND GRUMBLING.

The oil of civility is required to make the wheels of domestic life run smoothly. The habit
of fault-finding and grumbling indulged in by some, is an exceedingly vexatious one, and will,
in time, ruffle the calmest spirit and the sweetest temper. It is the little annoyances, perplexities
and misfortunes which often render life a burden; the little omission of minor duties and the
committing of little faults that perpetually scourge us and keep the heart sore. Constant fault-finding,
persistent misrepresentations of motives, suspicions of evil where no evil was intended, will
complete the work in all but the finest and most heroic natures. They alone can stand the fiery
test, coming out purer and stronger for the ordeal. Children who habitually obey the commandment,
"Be kind to one another," will find in mature life, how strong the bonds of affection may be
that bind the members of the household together.

FAMILY JARS NOT TO BE MADE PUBLIC.

Whatever may be the family disagreements, they should never be made known outside of the home
circle, if it can be avoided. Those who expose the faults of the members of their family are
severely judged by the world, and no provocation can be a good excuse for it. It is exceedingly
vulgar, not to say unchristianlike, for the members of the same family to be at enmity with
one another.

YIELDING TO ONE ANOTHER.

One of the greatest disciplines of human life, is that which teaches us to yield our wills
to those who have a claim upon us to do so, even in trifling, every-day affairs; the wife to
the husband, children to parents, to teachers and to one another. In cases where principle
is concerned, it is, of course, necessary to be firm, which requires an exercise of moral courage.

CONFLICTING INTERESTS.

Conflicting interests are a fruitful source of family difficulties. The command of Christ to
the two brothers who came to Him with their disputes, "Beware of covetousness," is as applicable
among members of the same family now, as it was when those words were spoken. It is better
that you have few or no business transactions with any one who is near and dear to you, and
connected by family ties. In business relations men are apt to be very exact, because of their
habits of business, and this exactness is too often construed by near friends and relatives
as actuated by purely selfish motives. Upon this rock many a bark of family love has been wrecked.

RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.

It is well to remember that every blessing of our lives, every joy of our hearts and every
ray of hope shed upon our pathway, have had their origin in religion, and may be traced in
all their hallowed, healthful influences to the Bible. With the dawn of childhood, then, in
the earliest days of intelligence, should the mind be impressed and stored with religious truth,
and nothing should be allowed to exclude or efface it. It should be taught so early that the
mind will never remember when it began to learn; it will then have the character of innate,
inbred principles, incorporated with their very being.

OBEDIENCE.

If you would not have all your instructions and counsels ineffectual, teach your children to
obey. Government in a family is the great safeguard of religion and morals, the support of
order and the source of prosperity. Nothing has a greater tendency to bring a curse upon a
family than the insubordination and disobedience of children, and there is no more painful
and disgusting sight than an ungoverned child.

INFLUENCE OF EXAMPLE.

Never forget that the first book children read is their parents' example--their daily deportment.
If this is forgotten you may find, in the loss of your domestic peace, that while your children
well know the right path, they follow the wrong.

Childhood is like a mirror, catching and reflecting images all around it. Remember that an
impious, profane or vulgar thought may operate upon the heart of a young child like a careless
spray of water upon polished steel, staining it with rust that no efforts can thoroughly efface.

Improve the first ten years of life as the golden opportunity, which may never return. It is
the seed time, and your harvest depends upon the seed then sown.

THE INFLUENCE OF BOOKS.

Few mothers can over-estimate the influence which the companionship of books exerts in youth
upon the habits and tastes of their children, and no mother who has the welfare of her children
at heart will neglect the important work of choosing the proper books for them to read, while
they are under her care. She should select for them such as will both interest and instruct,
and this should be done during the early years, before their minds shall have imbibed the pernicious
teachings of bad books and sensational novels. The poison imbibed from bad books works so secretly
that their influence for evil is even greater than the influence of bad associates. The mother
has it in her power to make such books the companions and friends of her children as her good
judgment may select, and to impress upon them their truths, by conversing with them about the
moral lessons or the intellectual instructions they contain. A taste may be easily cultivated
for books on natural science and for history, as well as for those that teach important and
wholesome lessons for the young, such as are contained in the works of Mrs. Edgeworth, Mrs.
Child, Mrs. Yonge, and many other books written for the young.

CHAPTER XXI.

Woman's Higher Education.

It has been seen that in the rearing and training of her children, woman has a great work to
perform; that in this work she exerts an incalculable influence upon untold numbers, and that
she molds the minds and characters of her sons and daughters. How important, then, that she
should cultivate her mental faculties to the highest extent, if for no other reason than to
fit herself the better for the performance of this great duty of educating her children. How
important it is, also, that she should look to the higher education of her daughters, who,
in turn, will become mothers of future generations, or may, perhaps, by some vicissitude of
fortune, become dependent upon their own resources for support. With the highest culture of
the mental faculties, woman will be best enabled to faithfully perform whatever she may undertake.

TRAIN YOUNG WOMEN TO SOME OCCUPATION.

Owing to the changes in social and industrial life which have crowded many women from their
homes into business and public life, women must train for their branch of labor as men train
for their work, if they wish to attain any degree of success. Even where women have independent
fortunes, their lives will be all the happier if they have been trained to some occupation,
that, in case of reverses, may be made a self-sustaining one. A young woman who is able to
support herself, increases her chances for a happy marriage, for, not being obliged to rely
upon a husband for support or for a home, she is able to judge calmly of an offer when it comes,
and is free to accept or decline, because of her independence. Women are capable of and adapted
to a large number of employments, which have hitherto been kept from them, and some of these
they are slowly wrenching from the hands of the sterner sex. In order that women may enter
the ranks of labor which she is forcing open to herself, she needs a special education and
training to fit her for such employment.

EDUCATION OF GIRLS TOO SUPERFICIAL.

The school instruction of our girls is too superficial. There is a smattering of too many branches,
where two or three systematically studied and thoroughly mastered, would accomplish much more
for them in the way of a sound mental training, which is the real object of education. The
present method of educating young girls is to give them from five to ten studies, in which
they prepare lessons, and this, too, at an age when their physical development suffers and
is checked by excess of mental labor. Such a course of instruction, bestowing only a smattering
of many branches, wastes the powers of the mind, and deters, rather than aids, self-improvement.
It is only a concentration of the mind upon the thorough acquisition of all it undertakes that
strengthens the reflective, and forms the reasoning, faculties, and thus helps to lay a solid
foundation for future usefulness. The word education means to educe, to draw out the powers
of the mind; not the cramming into it of facts, dates and whole pages to be repeated verbatim.

AN EDUCATION APPROPRIATE TO EACH SEX.

The fact is becoming more palpable every year that there is an education appropriate to each
sex; that identical education for the two sexes is so unnatural, that physiology protests against
it and experience weeps over it. The physiological motto in education is, "Educate a man for
manhood, a woman for womanhood, and both for humanity." It will thus be seen, that as women
have the care, the training and the education of children, they need an education in a special
direction, and should have a very thorough one, to prepare them for the task.

WOMEN SHOULD HAVE A KNOWLEDGE OF THE LAWS OF HEALTH.

Physiology is one of the branches of that higher education, which should be thoroughly pursued
by women to enable them to fulfill the various duties of their allotted stations. Yet it is
also desirable that they should have a thorough knowledge of all branches that they undertake,
and a mastery of the studies pursued by them; for the want of thoroughness in woman's education
is an obstacle to success in all branches of labor. But woman should especially have a thorough
knowledge of the laws of physiology and hygiene. If she becomes a mother, such knowledge will
enable her to guard better the lives and health of her children. She will understand that when
she sends out her child insufficiently clad, and he comes home chilled through, that his vitality,
his power of resisting disease, is wasted. She will know that by taking the necessary precautions,
she may save the child's life; that she must not take him thus chilled, to the fire or into
a room highly heated, but that by gentle exercise or friction, she must restore the circulation
of the blood, and in using such precautions, she may ward off the attacks of disease that would
surely follow if they were neglected. This is but a single case, for there are instances of
almost daily occurrence when a proper knowledge of the laws of health will ward off disease,
in her own case, as well as in those of various members of her household. The diseases which
carry off children, are for the most part, such as ought to be under the control of the women
who love them, pet them, educate them, and who would, in many cases, lay down their lives for them.

RESULT OF IGNORANCE OF SANITARY LAWS.

Ignorance of the laws of ventilation in sleeping-rooms and school-rooms is the cause of a vast
amount of disease. From ignorance of the signs of approaching disease, children are often punished
for idleness, listlessness, sulkiness and wilfulness, and this punishment is too often by confinement
in a closed room, and by an increase of tasks; when what is really needed is more oxygen, more
open-air exercise, and less study. These forms of ignorance have too often resulted in malignant
typhus and brain fevers. Knowledge of the laws of hygiene will often spare the waste of health
and strength in the young, and will also spare anxiety and misery to those who love and tend
them. If the time devoted to the many trashy so-called "accomplishments" in a young lady's
education, were given to a study of the laws of preserving health, how many precious lives
might be spared to loving parents, and how many frail and delicate forms, resulting from inattention
to physical training, might have become strong and beautiful temples of exalted souls. We are
all in duty bound to know and to obey the laws of nature, on which the welfare of our bodies
depends, for the full enjoyment of our faculties can only be attained when the body is in perfect
health.

IDLENESS A SOURCE OF MISERY.

Perhaps the greatest cause of misery and wretchedness in social life is idleness. The want
of something to do is what makes people wicked and miserable. It breeds selfishness, mischief-making,
envy, jealousy and vice, in all its most dreadful forms. It is the duty of mothers to see that
their daughters are trained to habits of industry, that their minds are at all times occupied,
that they are well informed as to household duties, and to the duties of married life, for
upon a knowledge of household details may depend their life-long happiness or misery. It is
frequently the case, that a girl's education ends just as her mind is beginning to mature and
her faculties are beginning to develop. Her education ends when it ought properly to begin.
She enters upon marriage entirely unprepared, and, perchance, by some misfortune, she is thrown
penniless upon the world with no means of obtaining a livelihood, for her education has never
fitted her for any vocation. Not having been properly taught herself, she is not able to teach,
and she finds no avenue of employment open to her. An English clergyman, writing upon this
subject, says: "Let girls take a serious interest in art; let them take up some congenial study,
let it be a branch of science or history. Let them write. They can do almost anything they
try to do, but let their mothers never rest until they have implanted in their daughters' lives
one growing interest beyond flirtation and gossip, whether it be work at the easel, music,
literature, the structure of the human body and the laws of health, any solid interest that
will occupy their thoughts and their hearts. Idleness, frivolity and ignorance can only be
put down by education and employment. In the last resort, the spirit of evil becomes teacher
and task-master."

WOMEN SHOULD CULTIVATE A SPIRIT OF INDEPENDENCE.

In this country more than any other, women should, to some extent, cultivate a spirit of independence.
They should acquire a knowledge of how business is transacted, of the relation between capital
and labor, and of the value of labor, skilled and unskilled. As housekeepers, they would then
be saved from many annoyances and mistakes. If they chance to be left alone, widows, or orphans
possessing means, they would be saved from many losses and vexatious experiences by knowing
how to transact their own business. And those women who are obliged to take care of themselves,
who have no means, how necessary is it that they should have a thorough knowledge of some occupation
or business by which they can maintain themselves and others dependent upon them. In this country,
the daughter brought up in affluence, may, by some rapid change of fortune, be obliged, upon
arriving at maturity, to be among the applicants for whatever employment she may be fitted.
If she has been trained to some useful occupation, or if her faculties have been developed
by a thoroughness of study of any subject she has undertaken, she will be better qualified
to prepare herself to fill any position which may be open to her. With a mind drilled by constant
study she will the more quickly acquire a knowledge and grasp the details of any subject or
business to which she may devote herself.

HEALTH AND LIFE DEPENDENT UPON A HIGHER CULTURE.

Not only wealth and comfort, but health and life are dependent upon a higher form of culture,
a more thorough course of education than is now the standard. Not more, but fewer branches
of study and a more thorough comprehension of those pursued. Not only are the health and life
of each woman dependent upon the kind and degree of the education she receives, but the health
and lives of great numbers may depend upon it. In proportion as she has a knowledge of the
laws and nature of a subject will she be able to work at it easily, rapidly and successfully.
Knowledge of physical laws saves health and life, knowledge of the laws of intellect saves
wear and tear of the brain, knowledge of the laws of political economy and business affairs
saves anxiety and worrying.

CULTIVATION OF THE MORAL SENSE.

A well educated moral sense prevents idleness and develops a well regulated character, which
will preserve from excess those tenderer emotions and deeper passions of woman, which are potent
in her for evil or for good, in proportion as they are undisciplined and allowed to run wild,
or are trained and developed into a noble and harmonious self-restraint.

The girl who has so educated and regulated her intellect, her tastes, her emotions and her
moral sense, as to be able to discern the true from the false, will be ready for the faithful
performance of whatever work in life is allotted to her; while she who is allowed to grow up
ignorant, idle, vain, frivolous, will find herself fitted for no state of existence, and, in
after years, with feelings of remorse and despair over a wasted life, may cast reproach upon
those in whose trust was reposed her early education.

It is not for women alone that they should seek a higher education of their faculties and powers
but for the sake of the communities in which they live, for the sake of the homes in which
they rule and govern, and govern immortal souls, and for the sake of those other homes in the
humbler walks of life, where they owe duties as ministering spirits as well as in their own,
for in proportion as they minister to the comfort and health of others, so do they exalt their
own souls. Women should seek a higher education in order that they may elevate themselves,
and that they may prepare themselves for whatever duty they may be called upon to perform.
In social life we find that the truest wives, the most patient and careful mothers, the most
exemplary housekeepers, the model sisters, the wisest philanthropists and the women of the
greatest social influence are women of cultivated minds.

CHAPTER XXII.

The Art of Letter Writing.

A French writer says, that the writing a note or letter, the wording of a regret, the prompt
or the delayed answering of an invitation, the manner of a salutation, the neglect of a required
attention, all betray to the well-bred the degree or the absence of good-breeding.

A person who has self-respect as well as respect for others, should never carelessly write
a letter or note.

REQUIREMENTS FOR CORRECT WRITING.

The letter or note should be free from all flourishes. The rules of punctuation should be followed
as nearly as possible, and no capital letters used where they are not required. Ink-blots,
erasures, and stains on the paper are inadmissible. Any abbreviations of name, rank or title
are considered rude, beyond those sanctioned by custom. No abbreviations of words should be
indulged in, nor underlining of words intended to be made emphatic. All amounts of money or
other numbers should be written, reserving the use of numerical figures for dates only. It
is a good form to have the address of the writer printed at the top of the sheet, especially
for all business letters. For letters of friendship and notes, pure white paper and envelopes
are in better taste than tinted or colored, and the paper should be of a superior quality.
When a page is once written from left to right side, it should not be written over again from
top to bottom.

ANONYMOUS LETTERS.

No attention should ever be paid to anonymous letters. The writers of such stamp themselves
as cowardly, and cowards do not hesitate to say or write what is not true when it suits their
purpose. All statements made in such letters should be regarded as false, and the writers as
actuated by some bad motives. Anonymous letters should be burned at once, for they are not
to be noticed.

LETTERS AND NOTES.

The writing of notes in the third person is generally confined to notes of invitation, and
such notes are never signed.

When a letter is upon business, commencing "Sir" or "Dear Sir," the name of the person addressed
may be written either at the beginning or at the close of the letter, in the left hand corner.
In letters commencing with the name of the person to whom you are writing, as, "My Dear Mrs.
Brown," the name should not be repeated in the left hand corner.

No notes should be commenced very high or very low on the page, but nearer the top than the
middle of the sheet.

MANNER OF ADDRESS.

In addressing a clergyman, it is customary to commence "Reverend Sir," or "Dear Sir." It is
not now customary to write "B.A." or "M.A." after his name.

Doctors of divinity and medicine are thus distinguished: "To the Rev. John Blair, D.D.," or
"Rev. Dr. Blair;" "To G.T. Roscoe, M.D.," "Doctor Roscoe" or "Dr. Roscoe."

The President of the United States and Governors of States, are addressed "His Excellency."
U.S. Senators, members of Congress and men distinguished by holding various political offices
of an honorable nature, are addressed as "Honorable."

The superscription or address should be written upon the envelope as legibly as possible, beginning
a little to the left of the center of the envelope. The number of the house and name of the
street may be written immediately under this line, or in the lower left hand corner, as the
writer sees fit. The postage stamp should be securely fixed in the upper right hand corner
of the envelope. The following forms will show the appearance of a properly addressed envelope:

In sending a letter in care of another person the following form is the manner in which the
envelope should be addressed:

In sending a letter by a friend or acquaintance, and not through the mail, acknowledge the
courtesy of your friend on the envelope. The letter should not be sealed. The following is
the proper form:

A note or letter sent to a friend residing in the same place, by a messenger, may be addressed
as follows, or bear the full address:

FORM OF A LETTER.

DEGREES OF FORMALITY OBSERVED.

In commencing and signing notes and letters there is a difference of opinion in the degrees
of formality to be observed, but generally this scale is used according to the degree of acquaintance
or friendship. "Madam" or "Sir," "Dear Madam" or "Dear Sir," "My Dear Madam" or "My Dear Sir,"
"Dear Mrs. Brown" or "Dear Mr. Brown," "My Dear Mrs. Brown" or "My Dear Mr. Brown," "My Dear
Friend." In closing a note, the degrees are implied as follows: "Truly Yours" or "Yours Truly,"
"Very Truly Yours," "Sincerely Yours," "Cordially Yours," "Faithfully Yours," "Affectionately
Yours." The proper words should be carefully selected, as the conclusion of a note or letter
makes an impression on the person reading it. To aged persons the form, "With great respect,
sincerely yours," recommends itself as a proper form. "Yours, etc.," is considered a rude ending.
If you are sufficiently well acquainted with a person to address her "My Dear Mrs. ----," do
not sign "Yours Truly," or "Truly Yours," as this is the form to be used in writing to strangers
or in business letters.

SIGNATURE OF LADIES.

A married lady should not sign herself with the "Mrs." before her baptismal name, or a single
lady with the "Miss." In writing to strangers who do not know whether to address you as Mrs.
or Miss, the address should be given in full, after signing your letter; as "Mrs. John Smith,"
followed by the direction; or if unmarried, the "Miss" should be placed in brackets a short
distance preceding the signature.

Only the letters of unmarried ladies and widows are addressed with their baptismal names. The
letters of married ladies are addressed with their husbands' names, as "Mrs. John Smith."

LETTERS OF INTRODUCTION.

Letters of introduction should be brief and carefully worded. Give in full the name of the
person introduced, the city or town he is from, intimating the mutual pleasure that you believe
the acquaintance will confer, adding a few remarks concerning the one introduced, as circumstances
seem to require. Modest persons sometimes shrink from delivering letters of introduction which
appear to them to be undeservedly complimentary. Letters of introduction are left unsealed,
to be sealed before delivery by the one introduced. They should receive immediate attention
by the parties who receive them. When a gentleman delivers such a letter to a lady, he is at
liberty to call upon her, sending her his card to ascertain whether she will receive him then,
or appoint another hour that will be more convenient. The same rule is to be observed by those
whose stay in the city is short. He may also send it to her with his card bearing his address.

A letter of introduction should not be given, unless the person writing it is very well acquainted
with the one whom he introduces, and the one to whom he writes. If the person who receives
such a letter is really well-bred, you will hear from him or her within twenty-four hours,
for a letter of introduction is said to be like a draft, it must be cashed at sight. The one
receiving it either invites you to dine, or to meet others, or to a drive, or to visit some
place of amusement. Too great caution cannot be exercised in giving a letter which makes such
demands upon an acquaintance.

When the letter of introduction is left with a card, if there is a gentleman in the family,
he may call upon the stranger the next day, unless some engagement prevents, when he should
send his card with an invitation. If the letter introduces a gentleman to a lady, she may write
a note of invitation in answer, appointing a time for him to call.

The following is an appropriate form for a letter of introduction.

The envelope containing a letter of introduction, should be addressed as follows:

NOTES OF CONGRATULATION OR CONDOLENCE.

Notes of congratulation and condolence should be brief, and the letter should only be sent
by near and intimate friends. Do not allude to any subject except the one for which you are
offering your congratulations or sympathy. Such notes should be made expressive of real feeling,
and not be mere matters of form.

INVITATION TO A RECEPTION.

For a general reception, invitations are printed on cards. Their style is like the following,
and do not require an answer unless "R.S.V.P." is upon one corner.

INVITATION TO A BALL.

The "At Home" form of invitation for a reception is often adopted for a ball with the word
"Dancing" in one corner, though many people use the "At Home" form only for receptions. For
balls the hours are not limited as at receptions. When the above form is not used for a ball,
the invitation may read as follows:

          "Mrs. Blair requests the pleasure of Miss Milton's
          company at a ball, on Tuesday, February 7, at 9
          o'clock."

Invitations to a ball are always given in the name of the lady of the house, and require an
answer, which should not be delayed. If the invitation is accepted, the answer should be as
follows:

          "Miss Milton accepts with pleasure Mrs. Blair's
          kind invitation for Tuesday, February 7."

If it is found impossible to attend, a note of regrets, something like the following, should
be sent:

