"Indeed and he is, ma'am; a dail betther this morning, the Lord be praised."

"It was a kind of a fit, wasn't it, Richard?" asked the parson.

"A sort of a fit of illness of some kind, I'm thinking," said Richard, who had no mind to speak
of his family's secrets out of doors. Whatever he might be called upon to tell the priest,
at any rate he was not called on to tell anything to the parson.

"But it was very sudden this time, wasn't it, Richard?" asked the lady; "immediately after
that strange man was shown into his room --eh?"

"I'm sure, ma'am, I can't say; but I don't think he was a ha'porth worse than ordinar, till
after the gentleman went away. I did hear that he did his business with the gentleman, just
as usual like."

"And then he fell into a fit, didn't he, Richard?"

"Not that I heard of, ma'am. He did a dail of talking about some law business, I did hear our
Mrs. Jones say; and then afther he warn't just the betther of it."

"Was that all?"

"And I don't think he's none the worse for it neither, ma'am; for the masther do seem to have
more life in him this day than I'se seen this many a month. Why, he's been out and about with
her ladyship in the pony-carriage all the morning."

"Has he now? Well, I'm delighted to hear that. It is some trouble about the English estates,
I believe, that vexes him?"

"Faix, then, ma'am, I don't just know what it is that ails him, unless it be just that he has
too much money for to know what to do wid it. That'd be the sore vexation to me, I know."

"Well; ah, yes; I suppose I shall see Mrs. Jones to-morrow, or at latest the day after," said
Mrs. Townsend, resolving to pique the man by making him understand that she could easily learn
all that she wished to learn from the woman: "a great comfort Mrs. Jones must be to her ladyship."

"Oh yes, ma'am; 'deed an' she is," said Richard; "'specially in the matter of puddins and pies,
and such like."

He was not going to admit Mrs. Jones's superiority, seeing that he had lived in the family
long before his present mistress's marriage.

"And in a great many other things too, Richard. She's quite a confidential servant. That's
because she's a Protestant, you know."

Now of all men, women, and creatures living, Richard the coachman of Castle Richmond was the
most good tempered. No amount of anger or scolding, no professional misfortune--such as the
falling down of his horse upon the ice, no hardship--such as three hours' perpetual rain when
he was upon the box--would make him cross. To him it was a matter of perfect indifference if
he were sent off with his car just before breakfast, or called away to some stable work as
the dinner was about to smoke in the servants' hall. He was a great eater, but what he didn't
eat one day he could eat the next. Such things never ruffled him, nor was he ever known to
say that such a job wasn't his work. He was always willing to nurse a baby, or dig potatoes,
or cook a dinner, to the best of his ability, when asked to do so; but he could not endure
to be made less of than a Protestant; and of all Protestants he could not endure to be made
less of than Mrs. Jones.

"'Cause she's a Protestant, is it, ma'am?"

"Of course, Richard; you can't but see that Protestants are more trusted, more respected, more
thought about than Romanists, can you?"

"'Deed then I don't know, ma'am."

"But look at Mrs. Jones."

"Oh, I looks at her often enough; and she's well enough too for a woman. But we all know her
weakness."

"What's that, Richard?" asked Mrs. Townsend, with some interest expressed in her tone; for
she was not above listening to a little scandal, even about the servants of her great neighbours.

"Why, she do often talk about things she don't understand. But she's a great hand at puddins
and pies, and that's what one mostly looks for in a woman."

