There are three classes of persons in the loyal States of this Union who proclaim the present
civil war unnecessary, and clamor for peace at any price: first, a multitude of people, so
ignorant of the history of the country that they do not know what the conflict is about; secondly,
a smaller class of better-informed citizens, who have no moral comprehension of the inevitable
opposition of democracy and aristocracy, free society and slave society, and who believe sincerely
that a permanent compromise or trade can be negotiated between these opposing forces in human
affairs; thirdly, a clique of demagogues, who are trying to use these two classes of people
to paralyze the Government, and force it into a surrender to the rebels on such terms as they
choose to dictate: their separation from the United States or recall to their old power in
a restored and reconstructed Union.

It will be my purpose, in this article, to show the complete fallacy of this notion, by presenting
the facts concerning the progress of the different portions of our country in the American
idea of liberty during the years preceding this war. The census of 1860, if honestly studied,
must convince any unprejudiced man, at home or abroad, that the Slave Power deliberately brought
this war upon the United States, to save itself from destruction by the irresistible and powerful
growth of free society in the Union. This war had the same origin and necessity of every great
conflict between the people and the aristocracy since the world began.

Every war of this kind in history has been the result of the advancement of the people in liberty.
Now the people have inaugurated the conflict against the aristocracy, either in the interest
of self-government, or an imperial rule which should virtually rest upon their suffrage. Now
the aristocracy has risen upon the people, who were becoming too strong and free, to conquer
and govern them through republican or monarchical forms of society. There has always been an
irrepressible conflict between aristocracy and democracy; in times of peace carried on by all
the agencies of popular advancement; but in every nation finally bursting into civil war. And
every such war, however slow its progress, or uncertain its immediate consequence, has finally
left the mass of the people nearer liberty than it found them.

The northern Grecian states represented the cause of the people; and the oriental empires the
cause of the few. These little states grew so rapidly that the despots of Asia became alarmed,
and organized gigantic expeditions to destroy them. At Marathon and Salamis, the people's cause
met and drove back the mighty invasion; and two hundred years later, under the lead of Alexander,
dissolved every Asiatic empire, from the Mediterranean to the Euphrates, to its original elements.

Julius Cæsar destroyed the power of the old Roman aristocracy in the interest of the people
of the Roman empire. Under the name of 'The Republic,' that patrician class had oppressed the
people of Rome and her provinces for years as never was people oppressed before. After fifty
years of civil war, Julius and Augustus Cæsar organized the masses of this world-wide empire,
and established a government under which the aristocracy was fearfully worried, but which administered
such, justice to the world as had never before been possible.

The religious wars of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, which involved the whole of
Europe for eighty years, were begun by the civil and religious aristocracy of Europe to crush
the progress of religious and civil liberty among the people. These wars continued until religious
freedom was established in Germany, Holland, and Great Britain, and those seeds of political
liberty sown that afterward sprang up in the American republic.

The English civil wars of the seventeenth century were begun by the king and great nobles to
suppress the rising power of the commons, and continued till constitutional liberty was practically
secured to all the subjects of the British empire.

The French Revolution was the revolt of the people of France against one of the most cruel
and tyrannical aristocracies that ever reigned; and continued, with brief interruptions, till
the people of both France and Italy had vindicated the right to choose their emperors by popular
suffrage.

During the half century between the years 1775 and 1825, every people in North America had
thrown off the power of a foreign aristocracy by war, and established a republican form of
government, except the Canadas, which secured the same practical results by more peaceful methods.

The historian perceives that each of these great wars was an inevitable condition of liberty
for the people, and has exalted their condition. In all these struggles there were the same
kinds of opponents to the war: the ignorant, who knew nothing about it; the morally indifferent,
who could not see why freemen and tyrants could not agree to live together in amity; and the
demagogues, who were willing to ruin the country to exalt themselves. But we now understand
that only through these red gates of war could the peoples of the world have marched up to
their present enjoyment of liberty; that each naming portal is a triumphal arch, on which is
inscribed some great conquest for mankind.

The present civil war in the United States is the last frantic attempt of this dying feudal
aristocracy to save itself from inevitable dissolution. The election of Mr. Lincoln as President
of the United States, in 1860, by the vote of every Free State, was the announcement to the
world that the people of the United States had finally and decisively conquered the feudal
aristocracy of the republic after a civil contest of eighty years. With no weapons but those
placed in their hands by the Constitution of the United States, the freemen of the republic
had practically put this great slave aristocracy under their feet forever. That portion of
the Union which was controlled by the will of the whole people had become so decidedly superior
in every attribute of power and civilization, that the slave aristocracy despaired of further
peaceful resistance to the march of liberty through the land. Like every other aristocracy
that has lived, it drew the sword on the people, either to subdue the whole country, or carry
off a portion of it, to be governed in the interests of an oligarchy.

This great people was not plunged into civil war by unfriendly talking, or by the unfriendly
legislation of the Northern people, or by the accidental election of Abraham Lincoln as President.
Nations do not go to war for hard words or trifling acts of unfriendliness or accidental political
changes; although these may be the ostensible causes of war--the sparks that finally explode
the magazine. There was a real cause for this rebellion--the peaceful, constitutional triumph
of the people over the aristocracy of the republic, after a struggle of eighty years. If ever
a great oligarchy had good reason to fight, it was the Slave Power in 1860. It found itself
defeated and condemned to a secondary position in the republic, with the assurance that its
death was only a question of time. It is always a good cause of war to an aristocracy that
its power is abridged; for an aristocracy cares only for itself, and honestly regards its own
supremacy as the chief interest on earth. This Slave Power has only done what every such power
has done since the foundation of the world. It has drawn the sword against the inevitable progress
of mankind, and will be conquered by mankind. It is waging this terrible war, not against Northern
Abolitionists, or the present Administration, but against the United States census tables of
1860; against the mighty realities of the progress of free society in the republic, which have
startled us all; but with which no class of men were so well acquainted as Mr. Jefferson Davis
and his associates in rebellion.

There has always been a conflict in our country between this old slave aristocracy and the
people. The first great victory of the people was in the war of the Revolution. That war was
inaugurated and forced upon the country by the masses of the people of the New England and
Middle States. The aristocracy of the South, with their associates in the North, resisted the
movement to separate the people from the crown of Great Britain, till resistance was impossible,
and then came in, to some extent, to lead the movement and appropriate the rewards of success.
But the free people of the North brought on and sustained the war. Massachusetts was then the
fourth province in population; but she sent eight thousand more soldiers to the field during
those bloody eight years than all the Southern States united. Virginia was then the empire
State of the Union, and Rhode Island the least; but great, aristocratic Virginia furnished
only seven hundred more soldiers than little, democratic Rhode Island. New England furnished
more than half the troops raised during the Revolution; and the great centres of aristocracy
in the Middle and Southern States were the stronghold of Toryism during the war. Indeed, a
glance at the map of the Eastern and Middle States reveals the fact that the headquarters of
the 'peace party' in the Revolutionary and the present war are in precisely the same localities.
The 'Copperhead' districts of New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania are the old Tory districts
of the Revolution. The Tories of that day, with the mass of the Southern aristocracy, tried
to 'stop the war' which was to lay the foundations of the freedom of all men. The Tories of
to-day are engaged in the same infamous enterprise, and their fate will be the same.

Had the Slave Power been united in 1776, we should never have gained our independence. But
it was divided. Every State was nominally a Slave State; but slaveholders were divided into
two classes. The first was led by Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and other illustrious aristocrats,
North and South; and, like the Liberal lords of Great Britain, threw their influence on the
side of the people. This party, very strong in Virginia, very weak in the Carolinas, dragged
the South through the war by the hair of its head; and compelled it to come into the Union.
It also resolved to abolish the Slave Power, and succeeded in consecrating the whole Northwestern
territory to freedom as early as 1790. The opposition party had its headquarters at Charleston,
was treasonable or luke-warm during the war, and refused to come into the Union without guarantees
for slavery.

The result of the whole struggle was, that the people of the thirteen colonies, with the help
of a portion of their aristocracy, severed the country from Great Britain, and established
a Government by which they, the people, believed themselves able, in time, to control the whole
Union, and secure personal liberty in every State. For 'the compromises of the Constitution'
mean just this: that our National Government was a great arena on which aristocracy and democracy
could have a free fight. If the aristocracy beat, that Government would be made as despotic
as South Carolina; if the democracy triumphed, it would become as free as Massachusetts. That
was what the people had never before achieved: a free field to work for a Christian democracy.
God bless the sturdy people of New England and the Middle States for this! God bless George
Washington and Thomas Jefferson, John Marshall and the liberal gentlemen of the Old Dominion,
for helping the people do it. They did not win the victory, as many have supposed; but they
bravely helped to lead the people of the Free States to this great military and civil achievement.
Virginia was richly paid for the service of her aristocracy. But history tells us who did the
work, and how nobly it was done.

The republic was now established, with a Constitution which might be made to uphold a democratic
or an aristocratic government, as either party should triumph. The Slave Power, forced half
reluctantly into the Union, now began to conspire to rule it for its own uses. All that was
necessary, it thought, was to unite the aristocracy against the people. And this work was at
once well begun. The first census was taken in 1790, and the last in 1860. This period divides
itself, historically, into two portions. The thirty years from 1780 may be regarded as the
period of the consolidation of the Slave Power, and its first distinct appearance as a great
sectional aristocracy in 1820, in the struggle that resulted in the 'Missouri Compromise.'
The forty years succeeding 1820 may be called the period of the consolidation of freedom to
resist this assault, and the final triumph of democracy in 1860, by the election of a President.

The first thirty years was a period of incessant activity by the slave aristocracy. It incurred
a nominal loss in the abolition of slavery in eight Eastern and Middle States, and the consecration
of the great Northwestern territory to freedom; out of which three great Free States had already
been carved; making, in 1820, eleven Free States. But it had gained by the concentration of
its power below the line of the Ohio and Pennsylvania boundary, the division of the territory
belonging to the Carolinas, and the Louisiana purchase; whereby it had gained five new Slave
States; making the number of Slave States equal to the Free--eleven. It put forward the liberal
aristocracy of Virginia to occupy the Presidential chair during thirty-two of the thirty-six
years between 1789 and 1825; thus compelling Virginia and Maryland to a firm alliance with
itself. It had man[oe]uvred the country through a great political struggle and a foreign war,
both of which were chiefly engineered to secure the consolidation of the slave aristocracy.
In 1820 its power was extended in eleven States, containing four hundred and twenty-four thousand
square miles, with one hundred and seventy-nine thousand square miles of territory sure to
come in as Slave States; and the remainder of the Louisiana purchase not secure to liberty.
It had a white population only seven hundred thousand less, while its white and black population
was a million more than all the Free States.

The North was barely half as large in area of States: two hundred and seventy thousand square
miles, with only one hundred thousand square miles in reserve of the territory dedicated to
liberty. With an equality of representation in the Senate of the United States, and a firm
hold of all the branches of the Government, the prospect of the oligarchy for success was brilliant.
In every nation the aristocracy first gets possession, organizes first, and proceeds deliberately
to seize and administer the government. The people are always unsuspicious, slow, late in organizing,
and seem to blunder into success or be led to it by a Providence higher than themselves. In
this Government the slave aristocracy first consolidated, and in 1820 appeared boldly on the
arena, claiming the superiority, and threatening ruin to the republic in the event of the failure
of their plans. It had managed so well that there was now no division in its ranks, and for
the last forty years has moved forward in solid column to repeated assaults on liberty.

The people, as usual, did not suspect the existence of this concentrated power till 1820. They
made a brave militia fight then against the aristocracy, and compelled it to acknowledge a
drawn battle by the admission of Maine to balance Missouri, and the establishment of a line
of compromise, which would leave all territory north of 36° 30' consecrated to freedom. The
Slave Power submitted with anger, intending to break the bargain as soon as it was strong enough,
and continued on its relentless struggle for power. It determined to gain possession of the
Senate of the United States; make it a house of nobles; control through it the foreign policy,
the Executive, and the Supreme Court; and, with this advantage, reckoned it could always manage
the House of Representatives and govern the nation. The key to all the political policy of
the Slave Power through these last forty years is this endeavor to capture the Senate of the
United States, and hold it, by bringing in a superior number of Slave States. So well did it
play this card that, till 1850, it maintained an equality of senatorial representation, and,
by the help of Northern allies and the superior political dexterity of the aristocracy, controlled
our foreign policy; kept its own representatives in all the great courts of Europe; made peace
or war at will; managed the Executive through a veto on his appointments; and endeavored to
fill the Supreme Court with men in favor of its policy, while the House of Representatives
never was able to pass a measure without its consent. Under the past forty years' reign of
the Slave Power, the Senate of the United States has been a greater farce in the republic than
the crown and House of Lords in the British empire. Indeed, so well did this aristocracy play
its part, that it was supposed by the whole world to be the American Government; and the news
that the people of the United States had refused, in 1860, to register its behests, was received
abroad with the same astonishment and indignation as if there had been a revolt of the subjects
of any European nation against their anointed rulers.

But spite of these great advantages at the outset--spite of its incredible political activity
and admirable concentration, the slave aristocracy was finally defeated by the people. How
this was done is the most interesting narrative in modern history. Never has the intrinsic
superiority of a democratic over an aristocratic order of society been so magnificently vindicated
as during the last forty years of our national career. During that period the free portion
of this Union has grown to an overwhelming superiority over the slave portion, and compelled
the slaveholders to draw the sword to save themselves from material and providential destruction.

This period of forty years may be regarded as that of the consolidation of the people. The
first thirty years of it was the era of their industrial and social consolidation; the last
ten years has been the period of their political union against the Slave Power.

An aristocracy always exhibits the uttermost pitch of human policy in its career, and amazes
and outwits society by its marvellous display of executive ability. But the people are always
moved by great supernatural forces that are beyond their comprehension, often disowned or scorned
by them, but which mould their destiny and lead them to a victory spite of themselves. The
people always grow without conscious plan or method, and rarely know their own strength. But
there are always a few great men who represent their destiny, and, often against their will,
direct them in the path to liberty. History will record the names of three great men who, during
the last forty years, have been the most notable figures in this consolidation of the people
in this republic; three men that the implacable hatred of the Slave Power has singled out from
all other Northern men as special objects of infamy; men who represent the industrial, moral,
and political phases of the people's growth to supremacy. Each came when he was wanted, and
faithfully did his work; and their history is the chronicle of this advance of liberty in the
republic.

The first of these men was De Witt Clinton, of New York. No Northern man so early discovered
the deep game of the Slave Power as he. He was the ablest statesman of the North in the days
when the aristocracy of the South was just effecting its consolidation. He was a prominent
candidate for the Presidency, and was scornfully put down by the power that ruled at Richmond.
The slaveholders knew him for their clear-headed enemy, and drove him out of the arena of national
politics. Never was political defeat so auspicious. Cured of the political ambition of his
youth, Mr. Clinton turned the energies of his massive genius to the industrial consolidation
of the North. He saw that all future political triumph of liberty must rest on the triumph
of free labor. He anticipated the coming greatness of the Northwest, and boldly devoted his
life to the inauguration of that system of internal improvements which has made the Northern
States the mighty, free industrial empire it now is. Within the period of ten years lying nearest
1820, the people, under the lead of Clinton and his associates, had brought into active operation
the three great agencies of free labor--the steamer, the canal, the railroad; while our manufacturing
industry dates from the same period.

This was the providential movement of a great people, organizing a method of labor which should
overthrow the American aristocracy. Of course the people did not know what all this meant;
thousands of the men who were foremost in organizing Northern industry did not suspect the
end; but De Witt Clinton knew. The wiseacres of the city of New York nicknamed his canal 'Clinton's
Ditch.' It was the first ditch in that series of continental 'parallels' by which the people
of the North have approached the citadel of the Slave Power. They have dug in those vast intrenchments
for forty years, to such purpose that in 1860 the great guns of free labor commanded every
plantation in the Union. Pardon them, then, O lieutenant-generals of the slavery forces, if
they still think well of the spade that has dug their highway to power. The Northern spade
is a slow machine--but it will yet shovel the slave aristocracy into the Gulf of Mexico as
sure as God lives!

Glance over this field of industrial and material growth in the free portion of the Union,
as it appeared in 1860.

At that time the Free States had increased to nineteen, while the Slave States were fifteen,
containing eight hundred and seventy-five thousand square miles. The people had nine hundred
and fifty thousand square miles organized into free-labor States, with eight vast Territories,
containing one million square miles, an area equal to twenty-four States as large as New York.
In this vast extent of States and Territories, including two thirds the land of the Union,
there were not a hundred slaves. The Government holds all those States and Territories to-day.

Look at the position and value of these possessions of freedom. In 1850 liberty secured the
great State of California, and in 1860 the State of Kansas. These States insure the possession
of the whole Pacific coast, the entire mineral wealth of the mountains, the Indian Territory,
and the vast spaces of Northwestern Texas to freedom, and open Mexico to Northern occupation.
In the East, freedom had already secured the best harbors for commerce; in the Northwest, the
granary of the world; the inexhaustible mineral wealth of Lake Superior, and the navigation
of thousands of miles upon the great inland seas that separate the republic from the Canadas.
From the Northern Atlantic and the Pacific it commanded the trade of Europe and Asia. This
region embraces the best climates of the continent for the habitation of a vigorous race of
men, and contains all the elements of imperial power.

Freedom had secured, in 1860, a population of twenty millions, while the Slave Power had reached
but twelve millions, one third of whom were slaves. From 1850 to 1860 the Union gained almost
as much in population as the entire census of 1820; and of that gain the North secured forty-one
and the South but twenty-seven per cent. The slave population increased but twenty-three per
cent. At this rate of increase the year 1900 will see a population of one hundred millions
in the Union, of whom nine millions will be negroes, and a vast majority of the white population
located in territory now free. Between 1820 and 1860 five million emigrants reënforced the
Union, of which the North received the greater portion. Between the war of 1814 and 1860, Great
Britain and Ireland sent to us more people than inhabited the thirteen States that formed the
Union, and of this immigrant population there was an excess of nine hundred and fifty thousand
men--a nation poured in upon the great, free North, to reënforce the people.

Already was this increase of free population telling upon slave labor in Slave States. Even
in the Gulf cities Sambo was fast receding before the brawny arms of Hans and Patrick. Northwestern
Texan was becoming a new Germany. Western Virginia, Maryland, Missouri, and Delaware were rapidly
losing in slave labor; while along the border had grown up a line of ten cities in Slave States,
containing six hundred thousand people, of whom less than ten thousand were slaves. This line
of cities, from Wilmington Delaware, to St. Louis, Missouri, was becoming a great cordon of
free-labor citadels; supported in the rear by another line of Free Border-State cities, stretching
from Philadelphia to Leavenworth, containing nine hundred thousand; thus massing a free population
of one million five hundred thousand in border cities that overlooked the land of despotism.

Then consider the growth of free agriculture. In 1860 the South had a cotton and rice crop
as her exclusive possession. Already the Northwest was encroaching upon her sugar cultivation.
Against her agriculture, mainly supported by one great staple, which can also be cultivated
all round the globe, the free North could oppose every variety of crop; several of greater
value than the boasted cotton. In all the grains, in cattle and the products of the dairy,
in hay, in fruits; in the superior cultivation of land; in the vastly superior value of land;
in agricultural machinery, probably representing a labor force equal to all the slaves--the
superiority of freedom was too evident for discussion. The value of agricultural machinery
in the Free States had trebled between 1850 and 1860. The Homestead Law was the fit result
of this vast advance of free labor, and has sealed the destiny of every present and future
Territory of the Union.

Then contemplate the vast expansion of manufacturing industry, of which nine tenths belong
to the Free States. In ten years from 1850 to 1860, this branch of labor had increased eighty-six
per cent., reaching the enormous sum of $2,000,000,000; $60 for every inhabitant of the Union.
A million and a half of people were engaged as operatives therein, supporting nearly five millions--one
sixth the whole population of the Union; while fully one third our population may be said to
directly and indirectly live by manufactures.

The increase of iron manufactures in ten years was forty-four per cent.; the coal mines reached
a treble yield in ten years; $10,000,000, of clothing were produced in 1860. The lumber trade
had increased sixty-four percent, in ten years, reaching $100,000,000. Flouring mills showed
sixty-five per cent, increase, reaching $225,000,000; spirits, $24,000,000; cotton manufactures
had increased seventy-six per cent, in ten years, reaching $115,000,000; woollens had increased
sixty-seven per cent.; boots and shoes walked up to $76,000,000, and leather to $63,000,000.
The fishermen of New England increased mightily. The gold of California, copper of the Northwest,
the salt of New York and Michigan had reached colossal proportions. Whoever studies the manufacturing
statistics of the North for the past ten years will be at no loss to know why the manufacturers
of Great Britain are willing to sever the Slave States from the Union, to gain a customer it
was thus supplying in 1860.

Now add to this array of agriculture, manufactures, extent of territory, and excess of population,
the superiority of the Free States in commerce. The tonnage of the Union was twenty-six millions
in 1860, the fourth of which was the growth of the ten years previous. Out of the one thousand
and seventy-one ships built in 1860, the 'nation' of South Carolina produced one steamer and
one schooner! Contemplate the money power of the city of New York, the vast capital invested
in trade, in banks, insurance, and the like, in the North. The slave aristocracy was becoming
imprisoned in a vast web of financial dependence--a web that war and wholesale repudiation
of debts alone could break through.

In 1860 there were in the Union 30,- 600 miles of railroad, costing $1,134,- 452,909, four
times the extent of 1850. In 1850 only one line of railroad connected the Atlantic with the
Mississippi. Now, of the eight great railroad and canal routes connecting the sea coast with
this valley, six run through the Free States; transportation on these avenues costs but one
tenth the old methods. Governor Letcher declares the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad has 'abolitionized'
Northern and Western Virginia, and the Southern rebellion has been especially savage on railroads.
Whoever would understand one secret of the consolidation of the people should study the railroad
map of the Northern States, and contrast it with the South. It was a fine tribute to the value
of the railroad that the first use the people made of their new political supremacy in 1860
was to pass the bill for connecting the Atlantic and Pacific by the iron rail and the telegraphic
wire.

This vast advancement in free labor, from 1820 to 1850, was fitly closed in 1850 by the annexation
of California to the roll of the Free States, securing to liberty the gold mines and the Pacific
coast. It is impossible to comprehend all the consequences of this step. It was the decisive
industrial triumph of the people over the slave aristocracy. The Slave Power went mad over
the defeat, and for the last ten years has virtually abandoned the rivalry of industries, and
turned to violence, breaking of compromises, forcible seizure of the ballot box, repudiation
of debts, stealing of arms, and finally cruel war, as if lying and robbing, in the long run,
could upset free and honest industry. After the loss of California and the Pacific coast, the
struggle for the Territories was but a, preliminary skirmish of the war for the conquest and
desolation of the Union. The people had waged the battle of liberty with the gigantic agencies
of material prosperity for forty years, and the aristocracy was completely in their power.

For this material superiority of the free-labor States inevitably inured to the advantage of
liberty. In vain did every new Free State, year after year, vote with the Slave Power; in vain
did every great railroad and manufacturing corporation of the North obey the political behests
of the lords of the plantations; in vain was the mercantile aristocracy of all the great cities
the fast friend of the slave aristocracy; and vainly did almost the entire immigrant population
fall politically into its control. All this was as nothing against the irresistible natural
tendency of free labor. The Irishman who voted against the negro was breaking his chain with
every blow of his pick. The Wall-street banker, the great railroad king, the cotton manufacturer,
who railed against abolitionism like mad, were condemning the slave aristocracy every day they
lived. There is a divine law by which the work of freemen shall root out the work of slaves;
and no law enacted by the will of Northern doughfaces could repeal this statute of nature.
These Northern friends of the aristocracy supposed themselves to be helping their ambitious
allies by their political support. But the slaveholders knew how fallacious was this aid. They
saw that the North was gaining a huge superiority to the South; that the people were slowly
consolidating; that when the free-labour interest did finally concentrate, it would carry every
Northern interest with it, and, when the pinch came, no Northern party or statesman could or
would help them do their will. They carefully sifted all offers of aid from such quarters,
and having used every Northern interest and institution and party till it was squeezed dry
of all its black blood, they turned their backs haughtily on the white sections of the Union,
plundered friend and foe alike, and flew into civil war, out of spite and rage at the census
of 1860; in other words, declared war against the providence of God as manifested in the progress
of free society. They have fought well; at first, perhaps, better than we; but when General
Lee 'flanks' the industrial decrees of the Almighty, and Stuart 'cuts the communications' between
free labor and imperial power, they will destroy this republic--and not till then.

But was this great material gain of the people to be accompanied by a corresponding spiritual
advancement? Was man to become the chief object of reverence in this wonderfully expanding
industrial empire? If not, all this progress was deceptive, and nobody could predict how soon
our very superiority should be turned to the advantage of that aristocracy which had perverted
so many things in the republic.

It could not be denied that the Free States were making wonderful strides, during these forty
years, in mental cultivation and power. The free industry of the North was an education to
the people, and nowhere has so much popular intelligence been carried into the business of
life as here. This period also witnessed the organization of the free school everywhere outside
of New England, its home; the daily press, the public lecture, the creation of an American
literature, all Northern; the growth of all institutions of learning and means of intellectual
and artistic cultivation unparalleled in any other age or land. No well-informed person could
also deny the astonishing progress in furnishing the means of religious instruction, the multiplication
of churches, great ecclesiastical organizations, and philanthropic leagues. Notwithstanding
the apparent absorption of the North in its material prosperity, no people ever was so busy
in furnishing itself with the means of spiritual improvement; and though a population of several
millions of ignorant and superstitious foreigners was thrown in upon it during these eventful
years, it came out at the end the most intelligent people, the best provided with the apparatus
of religion, that was ever known.

But there was one element yet wanting to assure the right usage of all this wealth of material,
intellectual, and ecclesiastical power. This was what the slaveholding aristocracy saw at once
to be the fatal omen for their cause, and nicknamed 'Abolitionism.' Abolitionism, as recognized
by the Slave Power, is nothing more nor less than the religious reverence for man and his natural
rights. This moral respect for the nature and rights of all men has always encountered the
peculiar scorn of aristocracies, and no men have been so bitterly persecuted in history as
those who represented the religious opposition to despotism. The Hebrew aristocracy in old
Palestine called this sentiment 'atheism' in Jesus Christ, and crucified Him. The pagan aristocracy
called it a 'devilish superstition' in the early Christians, and slaughtered them like cattle.
The priestly and civil absolutism of the sixteenth century called it 'fanaticism' in the Dutch
and German reformers, and fought it eighty years with fire and rack and sword. The church and
crown nicknamed it 'Puritanism,' and persecuted it till it turned and cut off the head of Charles
the First, and secured religious liberty. The slave aristocracy stigmatized it 'Abolitionism,'
and let loose upon it every infernal agency in its power.

One great man, yet alive, but not yet recognized as he will be, was the representative of this
religious reverence for the rights of man. Lloyd Garrison has been, for the last twenty-five
years, the best-hated man in these Northern States, not because he failed to see just how a
Union of Free and Slave States could endure; not because of any visionary theory of political
action or the structure of society he cherished; but, strangely enough, because he stood-up
for man and his divine right to freedom. This was what the aristocracy hated in him, and this
is what, with inexpressible rage, it saw gaining in the North. It truly said that our education,
our arts, our literature, our press, our churches, our benevolent organizations, our families,
all that was best in Northern society, even our politics, were being consolidated by this 'fanaticism,'
Puritanism,' 'Abolitionism'--otherwise, by reverence for man and his right to freedom.

It grew, however, almost as fast as the material power of the North--this moral conviction
of the divine right of man to liberty; grew so fast, that in 1860, South Carolina glanced over
the November election returns, saw the name of Abraham Lincoln at the head, shrieked, 'The
North is abolitionized!' and rushed out of the Union, with ten other Slave States at her heels,
while four more were held back by the strong arm of the national power. The North is not yet
'abolitionized,' but every volley fired at liberty by the Slave Power these last three years,
has killed a lover of slavery, and made an Abolitionist; as the juggler fires his pistol at
your old black hat, and, when the smoke clears up, a white dove flutters in its place. If the
Slave Power shoots at us long enough, we shall all become Abolitionists, and all learn to love
our fellow man and protect him in the enjoyment of every right given him by God!

Thus had the Free States, the people's part of the Union, gone up steadily to overshadowing
material, intellectual, moral power. But up to 1850 this mighty growth had got no fit expression
in State or national politics. All the great parties had mildly tried to remonstrate with the
slave aristocracy, but quickly recoiled as from the mouth of a furnace. A few attempts had
been made to organize a party for freedom, but nothing could gain foothold at Washington. A
few noble men had lifted their voices against the rampant tyranny of the slaveholders: chief
among these was John Quincy Adams, the John the Baptist crying in the desert of American partisan
politics the coming of the kingdom of Heaven! But when the people had come up to a consciousness
of their consolidated power, and the reverence for human right was changing and polarizing
every Northern institution--in the fierce struggle that ushered in and succeeded the admission
of California, between 1848 and 1856--this Northern superiority culminated in a great political
movement against slavery. This movement assumed a double form-positive, in the assertion that
the Slave Power should be arrested; negative, in the assertion that the people should have
their own way with it. The Republican party said: The slave aristocracy shall go no farther.
The 'Popular Sovereignty' party, or Douglas Democracy, said: The people shall do what they
choose about this matter. Now the people were already the superior power in the republic, and
were rapidly growing to hate the Slave Power; so the slaveholders, saw that the Northern Democracy,
with their war cry of popular sovereignty, might in time be just as dangerous to them as their
more open enemies. They repudiated both forms of Northern politics, and tied the executive,
under James Buchanan, and the Supreme Court, under Judge Taney, to their dogma: The right of
the aristocracy is supreme. Slavery, not liberty, is the law of the republic.

The great leaders of these Northern parties were Stephen H. Douglas and William H. Seward.
Mr. Douglas was the best practical politician, popular debater, and magnetizer of the masses,
the North has yet produced. He was the representative of the blind power of the North, and
stood up all his life, in his better hours, for the right of the people to make the republic
what they would. But the representative statesman of the era is the Secretary of State. The
whole career of Mr. Seward is so interwoven with the history of the political consolidation
of the people against the Slave Power, that the two must be studied together to be understood.
Nowhere so clearly and eloquently as in the pages of this great philosophical statesman can
be read the rapid growth of that political movement that in twelve years captured every Free
State, placed a President in the chair, and then, with a splendid generosity, invited the whole
loyal people to unite in a party of the Union, knowing that henceforth the Union meant the
people and liberty against the aristocracy and slavery. And only in the light of this view
can the course of this man and his great seeming opponent, but real associate, be fitly displayed.
Douglas had taught the people of the North that their will should be the law of the republic.
Seward had told them that will should be in accordance with the 'higher law' of justice and
freedom. Like men fighting in the dark, they supposed themselves each other's enemies, while
they were only commanders of the front and rear of the army of the people. Both appeared on
the national arena in the struggle of 1850, and soon strode to the first place. The Slave Power
repudiated Seward and his 'higher law' of justice and liberty at once. They tolerated Douglas
and his 'popular sovereignty ' ten years longer, when they found it even a more dangerous heresy,
and threw him overboard.

In the election of 1860 there were but two parties--the two wings of the people's army, under
the patriots Lincoln and Douglas; the two wings of the slave host, under the traitors Breckinridge
and Bell. Of course the people triumphed. Had Douglas been elected instead of Lincoln, the
Slave Power would not have stayed in the Union one hour longer. It was not Lincoln, but the
political supremacy of the people they resisted. The Free States had at last consolidated,
never to recede, and that was enough. Henceforth no party could live in the North that espoused
the cause of this rebel aristocracy. Whoever was Governor or President, Democrat, Republican,
Union, what not, the people's party was henceforth supreme, and the aristocracy, with all its
works of darkness, was second best.

The political victory of 1860 was virtually complete. For the first time in eighty years had
the people concentrated against the Slave Power. The executive was gained, placing the army,
navy, appointments, and patronage in the hands of the President, the people's representative
by birth and choice. The North had a majority of eight in the Senate and sixty-five in the
House of Representatives, insuring a control of the foreign policy and the financial affairs
of the republic; while the Supreme Court, the last bulwark of despotism, could be reconstructed
in the interest of the Constitution. It is true the people did not appreciate the magnitude
of the victory, or realize what it implied. They would probably have made no special use of
it at once, and the aristocracy might have outwitted them again, as they had for three quarters
of a century past. But the slaveholders knew that now was just the time to strike. If they
waited till the people understood themselves better, and learned how to administer the Government
for liberty, it would be too late. They still had possession of the executive, with all the
departments, the Supreme Court, army, and navy, for four precious months. This was improved
in inflicting as much damage on the Government as possible, and organizing a confederacy of
revolted States. The people did not believe they would fight, and offered them various compromises,
everything except the thing they desired--unlimited power to control the republic. The aristocracy
knew that no compromises would do them good which proposed anything less than a reconstruction
of the Union which would insure their perpetual supremacy. They even doubted if this could
be effectually accomplished in a peaceful way. The people must first be subdued by arms, their
Union destroyed, and brought to the verge of anarchy by this mighty power, backed by the whole
despotism of Europe; then might they be compelled to accept such terms as it chose to dictate.
It waited no longer than was necessary to complete its preparations, and opened ed its guns
in Charleston harbor. When the smoke of that cannonade drifted away, the people beheld with
consternation the Slave Powers arrayed in arms, from Baltimore and St. Louis to New Orleans
and the Rio Grande, advancing to seize their capital and overthrow the republic.

Having conquered the aristocracy by its industry, education, religion, and politics--driven
it from every position on the great field of American society in an era of peace--the people
slowly awoke to the conviction that they must now conquer it on the field of arms. They were
slow to come to that conviction. Their ablest leaders were not war-statesmen, and did not comprehend
at once the full meaning of the war. They called it a 'conspiracy,' a 'rebellion,' an 'insurrection,'
a 'summer madness,' anything but what it was--the American stave aristocracy in arms to subdue
the people of the United States with every other aristocracy on earth wishing it success. But
the people did not refuse the challenge. In April, 1861, they rushed to the capital, saved
their Government from immediate capture or dispersion, and then began to prepare, after their
way, for--they hardly knew what--to suppress a riot or wage a civil war.

In every such conflict as this the aristocracy has a great advantage, especially if it can
choose its own time to begin the war. Never was an oligarchy more favored in its preparations
than ours. Since 1820 it had contemplated and prepared for this very hour. It had almost unlimited
control over fifteen States of the Union. Society was constructed in all these States on a
military basis, the laboring class being held in place by the power of the sword. An aristocracy
is always preceded by military ambition; for all subordinate orders of its people have acquired
the habit of respect for rank and implicit obedience to superiors, so essential to success
in war. When the war broke out, the Slave Power was ready. Its arms and ammunition and forts
were stolen; its military organizations had been perfected in secret societies; its generals
were selected--its president perhaps the best general of all; its military surveys were made,
every Southern State mapped, and every strategical point marked; its subordinate officers,
in which the real efficiency of an army consists, had been educated in military schools kept
by such teachers as Hill and Stonewall Jackson. It had a full crop of cotton as a basis for
finance. Its government was practically such a despotism as does not exist in the world. At
the sound of the first gun in Charleston, the aristocracy sprang to arms; in a fortnight every
strategical point in fifteen States was practically in its possession, and Washington tottered
to its fall.

The people, as the people always are, were unprepared for war. Their entire energies had been
concentrated for forty years in organizing the gigantic victory of peace which they had just
achieved. When they woke up to the idea that there was yet another battle to be fought before
the aristocracy would subside, they began to learn the art of war. And never did the people
begin a great war so unprepared. The people of Europe have always had military traditions and
cultivation to fall back upon in their civil wars. The North had no military traditions later
than the Revolution, for no war since that day had really called forth their hearty efforts.
Three generations of peace had destroyed even respect for war as an employment fit for civilized
men. There were not ten thousand trained soldiers in all the nineteen States in April, 1861.
There were not good arms to furnish fifty thousand troops in the possession of the National
or loyal State Governments. Most of the ablest military men of the North had left the army,
and were engaged in peaceful occupations. Halleck was in the law; McClellan, Burnside, Banks,
on the railroad; Mitchel and Sigel teaching schoolboys; Hooker, Kearny, McCall, Dix, retired
gentlemen; Fremont digging gold; Rosecrans manufacturing oil, and Grant in a tanyard; and so
on to the end of the chapter; while Scott, the patriot hero, who was but once defeated in fifty
years' service, was passing over into the helplessness of old age. Of course such a people
did not realize the value of military education, and fell into the natural delusion that a
multitude of men carrying guns and wearing blue coats is an army; and any 'smart man' can make
a colonel in three months. There was not even a corporal in the Cabinet, and Mr, Lincoln's
military exploits were confined to one campaign, in the war of 1812, and one challenge to fight
a duel. There were not ten Northern men in Congress who could take a company into action. In
short, we had the art of war to learn; even did not know it was necessary to learn to fight
as to do anything else; especially to fight against an aristocracy that had been studying war
for forty years.

For more than three years have the people of the United States waged this gigantic war thus
precipitated upon them by their aristocracy to arrest the irresistible growth of modern society
in the republic. Every year has been a period of great success, though our peaceful population,
unacquainted with war, and often ignorant of the vast issues of this conflict, have often inclined
to despondency. Of course the aristocracy fought best, at first, as every aristocracy in the
world has done. With half our number of better disciplined troops, better commanded and man[oe]uvred,
and the great advantage of interior lines, supported by railroad communications, and possessing
in Virginia, perhaps, the most defensible region in the Union, they held our Army of the Potomac
at bay for two years; have thrice overrun Maryland and the Pennsylvania border, and yet hold
their fortified capital; while every step of our victorious progress in the Southwest has been
bitterly contested. Yet this war of martial forces has been strangely like the long, varied
war of material, moral, and political forces of which it is the logical sequel.

The Union navy won the earliest laurels in the war. The navy has been the right arm of the
people in all ages. The Athenian navy repelled the invasion of Greece by the Persian empire.
Antony, Pompey, Cæsar, the people's leaders in Rome, built up their youthful power upon the
sea. The Dutch and English navies saved religious and civil liberty in the sixteenth century;
and all the constitutional Governments that now exist in Europe came out of the hold of a British
man-of-war. The United States, in 1812, extemporized a navy that gained us the freedom of the
seas. And now the navy has led the way in the war for the freedom of the continent. The aristocracy
felt, intuitively, the danger of this arm of defence, and discouraged, scattered, and almost
annihilated our naval power before they entered upon the war. When we learn that our active
navy, in April, 1861, consisted of one frigate, too large to sail over the bar of Charleston
harbor, and one two-gun supply ship; and that in the three successive years it has shot up
into a force of five hundred vessels; that our new ironclads and guns have revolutionized the
art of naval warfare; that we have established the most effective blockade ever known along
two thousand miles of dangerous coast; have captured Port Royal and New Orleans, aided in the
opening of the Mississippi and all its dependencies which we now patrol, penetrated to the
cotton fields of Alabama, occupied the inland waters of North Carolina and Virginia, seized
every important rebel port and navy yard save four, and destroyed every war ship of the enemy
that has ventured in range of our cannon, we are pronouncing a eulogy of which any people may
be proud. One year more will swell this maritime power to a force amply sufficient to protect
the coast of the whole republic from all assault of traitors at home or their friends abroad.

But the army of the Union has not been content to remain permanently behind the navy. Even
in the first year of the conflict, when it was only a crowd of seventy-five thousand undisciplined
militia, contending against a solid body of well-disciplined and commanded forces, it wrested
two States from the foe, and baffled his intentions for the capture of all our great border
cities. But since the opening of the campaign of 1802, the real beginning of war by the North,
we have conquered from the aristocracy and now hold fast in Slave States an area of two hundred
thousand square miles, inhabited by four millions of people--a district larger than France.
Three years ago, every Slave State was virtually in the grasp of the rebels, and the Union
was really put upon the defensive to protect freedom in the Free States and the national capital.
Now, by a masterly series of campaigns in the West and Southwest, ranging from the Alleghanies
to the Gulf, in which we have never lost a decisive battle, we have saved all the Territories
of the United States, cut the 'Confederacy' in two equal parts, holding the western division
at our mercy, opened the Mississippi and all its tributaries, and crowded the rebellion into
the five States nearest the Atlantic coast. In the east we have fought a score of battles with
the most formidable army ever marshalled on this continent, composed of the flower of the rebel
soldiery led by their best generalship, and, spite of frequent repulses, have forced it from
the Potomac and below the Rappahannock to the James, away from the smell of salt water, holding
firmly every seaport from Washington to Wilmington, North Carolina, and a belt of land and
water commanding the approach to the interior of every Atlantic State. The military force of
the rebellion is rapidly being crowded into one army, not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand
men, against which the mighty power of the Union can be marshalled in overwhelming array. I
know well enough that the decisive moment will really come when we confront that desperate
and veteran host, on which the fate of aristocratic government upon this continent depends.
But we shall then have a great army of veterans, marshalled under commanders fit to lead them
in the name of liberty and the people.

It is not strange it has taken us three years to find who can fight among us. The Germans fought
fifty years against religious despotism before they found Gustavus Adolphus to lead them to
victory. The English fought ten years before Cromwell took command of his Ironsides. The French
blundered ten years before the 'little corporal' led the army of the republic over the Alps
to dethrone half the monarchs of Europe. The people had but one great general in the Revolutionary
War. Until 1860 the aristocracy had furnished the only great American commander. But great
generals have now appeared among the people; and if we fight stoutly and treat men fairly,
our commander will appear when his army of veterans is ready.

The aristocracy at first moved armies faster than the people, for the same reason that the
Tartars, the Cossacks, the Arabs, the Indians, and all semi-barbarians move more rapidly in
war than a civilized people. A semi-barbarous oligarchy fights because it loves war; a civilized
people fights to establish civilization and peace. The Southern army carries little along,
lives on the food and wears the dress of the semi-savage, and overruns vast spaces, leaving
a smoking desolation and a ruined society. The Northern army moves slowly, because it carries
American civilization in its knapsack and baggage wagons, organizes republican society as it
goes, and prepares to hold for liberty all it has gained. The people's army has paved the way
for liberty and a democratic order of society over two hundred thousand square miles, among
four millions of people, in three years. New Orleans, Nashville, Memphis, Beaufort, Alexandria,
every slave city in our possession, is being made over into a free city.

The army goes slow because it is only the people's pioneer to level the mountains and fill
up the valleys, and construct the highway of liberty from the Potomac to the Rio Grande. The
Secretary of State has well said: 'The war means the dissolution of slave society.' It was
entered into with the distinct understanding that it was the last expedient to save the negro
oligarchy from ruin, and every day it goes on its thundering course it more emphatically pronounces
its doom. The war for the Union is the people's final contest for liberty, a contest in which
they will be victorious, as in the strife of industry, morals, and politics. The people, like
John Brown's soul, are 'marching on' to dissolve the slave oligarchy and establish democracy.
The people now possess three fourths the territory, population, and wealth of the republic.
There are yet some six million black and white people in the South to rescue from their masters,
who now use them against us. They are being prepared for Union with us by this war. The poor
white man will be made better, more intelligent, more ambitious even, by service in the rebel
army, and on the return of peace will become the small farmer of a free soil. The black men
will be raised, in due time made freemen, and start as a free peasantry on a new career. A
hundred thousand slaveholders, with their families, not more than one million of people in
all, will hate the Union permanently. They will be defeated, we hope and believe, and disorganized
as a social and political power, and the people rule in every State they have cursed by their
ambition for the last fifty years.

We do not prophesy just when or how the people will triumph. The victory, we believe, will
come; but whether all at once, or through temporary revulsions of purpose and alternate truce
and war, whether finished by arms or yet cast again into the arena of polities, whether by
occupying all this three millions of square miles of territory or gaining on despotism year
by year, nobody knows. The Slave Power has not yet played its trump card. It has a hundred
devilish resources yet to foil us. It may yet try to use the negroes it still holds against
us by emancipation. It may yet drag us into a war with Europe, and Saratoga and Lake Erie and
Plattsburg, and Long Island and Trenton and Bunker Hill, and Detroit and New Orleans may yet
be fought over again. But we have seen how, for the last forty years, the people of the United
States have strode on toward supremacy, led by a Power they did not always recognize, and sometimes
scorned, but led to victory spite of themselves.

There has indeed been a Divine Intelligence guiding the destiny of our republic by the 'higher
law' of the progress of free society toward a Christian democracy. We do not think the Peace
Party will be able to abolish that 'higher law,' as certain of our politicians expect. We believe
God Almighty is shaping a free and exalted civilized nation out of this republic, by a law
of progress which we did not make and cannot repeal. We may postpone that nation by our folly
and sins, but it must be made. Through labor and education, and religion and arts, and politics
and war, 'it marches' on to supremacy--the people's nation. And when it is established it will
be the controlling nation of this continent, one of the firmest powers on the earth, the terror
of every aristocracy, and the joy and hope of every people on the round globe.

THE UNDIVINE COMEDY-A POLISH DRAMA.

Dedicated to Mary

PART III.

     'Il fut administé, parceque le niais demandait un prètre, puis
     pende à la satisfaction generale,' etc, etc.--Rapport du citoyen
     Gaillot, commissaire de la sixième chambre, an III., 5 prairial.

     'The sacraments were administered to him, because the fool demanded
     a priest; he was hung to the general satisfaction.'--Report of
     citizen Gaillot, commissary of the sixth session, 3d year, 5th
     prairial.

A song! a new song!

Who will begin it? Who will end it?

Give me the Past, clad in steel, barbed with iron, floating in knightly plumes! With magic
power I would invoke before you gothic towers and castellated turrets, bristling barbacans
and mighty arches, baronial halls and clustered shafts; I would throw around you the giant
shadows of vaulted domes and of revered cathedrals: but it may not be; all that is with the
Past: the Past is never to return!

       *       *       *       *       *

Speak, whosoever thou mayst be, and tell me in what thou believest! It is easier to lose thy
life than to invent a faith; to awaken any belief in it!

Shame upon you all, great and small, for all things pursue their own course in defiance of
your schemes! You may be mean and wretched, without hearts and without brains, yet the world
hastens to its allotted destiny; it hurries you on whether you will or no, throws you in the
dust, tosses you into wild confusion, or whirls you in resistless circles, which cease not
until they grow into dances of Death! But the world rolls on--on; clouds and storms arise and
vanish; then it grows slippery--new couples join the dance of Death--they totter--fall--lost
in an abyss of blood--for it is slippery-blood-human blood is gushing everywhere, as if the
path to peace led through a charnel house!

       *       *       *       *       *

Behold the crowds of people thronging the gates of the cities, the hills, the valleys, and
resting beneath the shadows of the trees! Tents are spread about, long boards are placed on
the trunks of fallen trees or on pikes and sticks to serve as tables; they are covered with
meat and drink, the full cups pass from hand to hand, and, as they touch the eager mouth, threats,
oaths, and curses press forth from the hot lips. Faster and faster fly the cups from hand to
hand, beaded, bubbling, glittering, always filling, striking, tinkling, ringing, as they circle
among the millions: Hurrah! hurrah! Long live the cup of drunkenness and joy!

       *       *       *       *       *

How fiercely they are agitated; how impatiently they wait! They murmur, they break into riotous
noise!

Poor wretches! scarcely covered with their miserable rags, the seal of weary labors deeply
stamped upon their sunburnt faces set with uncombed, bristling hair, the sweat starting from
their rugged brows, their strong and horny hands armed with scythes, axes, hammers, hatchets,
spades!

Look at that broad youth with the pickaxe; at the slight one with the sword. Here is one who
holds aloft a glittering pike; another who brandishes a massive club with his brawny arm! There
under the willows a boy crams cherries into his mouth with the one hand, and with the other
punches the tree with a long, sharp awl. Women are also there, wives, mothers, daughters, poor
and hungry as the men, Not a single trace of womanly beauty, of healthful freshness upon them;
their hair is disordered and sprinkled with the dust of the highways, their tawny bodies scarcely
covered with unsightly rags, their gloomy eyes seem fading into their sockets, only half open
as if gluing together in very weariness: but they will soon be quickened, for the full cup
flies from lip to lip, they quaff long draughts: Hurrah! hurrah! Long live the cup of drunkenness
and joy!

       *       *       *       *       *

Hark! a noise and rustling among the masses! Is it joy, or is it grief? Who can read the meaning
of a thing so monstrously multiform!

A man arrives, mounts a table, harangues and sways the multitude. His voice drags and grates
upon the ear, but hacks itself into sharp, strong words, clearly heard and easily understood;
his gestures are slow and light, accompanying his words as music, song. His brow is high and
strong, his head is entirely bald; thought has uprooted its last hair. His skin is dull and
tawny, the blood never tinges its dingy pallor, no emotion ever paints its secrets there, yellow
wrinkles form and cross between the bones and muscles of his face, and a dark beard, like a
black wreath, encircles it from temple to temple. He fastens a steady gaze upon his hearers,
no doubt or hesitation ever clouds his clear, cold eye. When he raises his arm and stretches
it out toward the people, they bow before him, as if to receive, prostrate, the blessing of
a great intellect, not that of a great heart! Down, down with the great hearts! Away, away
with old prejudices! Hurrah! hurrah! for the words of consolation! Hurrah for the license to
murder!

       *       *       *       *       *

This man is the idol of the people, their passion, the ruler of their souls, the stimulator
of their enthusiasm. He promises them bread and money, and their cries rise like the rushing
of a storm, widening and deepening in every direction: 'Long live Pancratius! Hurrah! Bread
and money! Bread for us, our wives, our children! Hurrah! hurrah!'

       *       *       *       *       *

At the feet of the speaker, leaning against the table on which he stands, rests his friend,
companion, and disciple. His eye is dark and oriental, shadowed by long and gloomy lashes,
his arms hang down, his limbs bend under him, his body is badly formed and distorted, his mouth
is sensual and voluptuous, his expression is sharp and malicious, his fingers are laden with
rings of gold--he joins the tumult, crying with a rough, hoarse voice: 'Long live Pancratius!'
The speaker looks at him carelessly for a moment, and says: 'Citizen, Baptized, hand me a handkerchief!'

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime the uproar continues; the cries become more and more tumultuous: 'Bread for us! Bread!
bread! Long live Pancratius! Death to the nobles! to the merchants! to the rich! Bread! bread!
Bread and blood! Hurrah! hurrah!'

       *       *       *       *       *

     A tabernacle. Lamps. An open book lies on a table. Baptized Jews.

THE BAPTIZED. My wretched brethren; my revenge-seeking, beloved brethren! let us suck nourishment
from the pages of the Talmud, as from the breast of our mother; it is the breast of life from
which strength and honey flow for us, bitterness and poison for our enemies.

CHORUS OF BAPTIZED JEWS. Jehovah is our God, and ours alone; therefore has He scattered us
in every land!

Like the coiled folds of an enormous serpent, He has wreathed us everywhere round and through
the adorers of the cross; our lithe and subtile rings pass round and through our foolish, proud,
unclean rulers.

Let us thrice spew them forth to destruction! Threefold curses light upon them!

THE BAPTIZED. Rejoice, my brethren! the Cross of our Great Enemy is already more than half
hewn down; it is rotting to its fall; it is only standing on a root of blood: if it once plunge
into the abyss it will never rise again. Hitherto the nobles have been its sole defence, but
they are ours! ours!

CHORUS OF BAPTIZED JEWS. Our work, our long, long work of centuries, our sad, ardent, painful
work is almost done!

Death to the nobles--let us thrice spew them forth to destruction! Threefold curses light upon
them!

THE BAPTIZED. The might of Israel shall be built upon a liberty without law or order, upon
a slaughter without end, upon the pride of the nobility, the folly of the masses. The nobles
are almost destroyed; we must drive the few still left into the abyss of death, and scatter
over their livid corpses the ruins of the shattered cross in which they trusted!

CHORUS OF BAPTIZED JEWS. The cross is now our holy symbol; the water of baptism has reunited
us with men; the scorning repose upon the love of the scorned!

The freedom of men is our cry; the welfare of the people our aim; ha! ha! the eons of Christ
trust the sons of Caiaphas!

Centuries ago our fathers tortured our Great Enemy to death; we will again torture him to death
this very day--but He will never rise more from the grave which we prepare for Him!

THE BAPTIZED. Yet a little space, a little time, a few drops of poison, and the whole world
will be our own, my brethren!

CHORUS OF BAPTIZED JEWS. Jehovah is the God of Israel, and of it alone.

Let us thrice spew forth the nations to destruction! Threefold curses light upon them!

  Knocking is heard at the door.

THE BAPTIZED. Take up your work, brethren! And thou, Holy Book, away from sight--no unclean
look shall soil thy spotless leaves! Who is there?

  Hides the Talmud.

VOICE (without). A friend. Open in the name of freedom.

THE BAPTIZED. Quick to your hammers and looms, my brethren!

  He opens the door.

  Enter Leonard.

LEONARD. Well done, citizens. You watch, I see, and whet your swords for to-morrow.--(Approaching
one of the men:) What are you making here in this corner?

ONE OF THE BAPTIZED. Ropes.

LEONARD. You are right, citizen, for he who falls not by iron must hang!

THE BAPTIZED. Citizen Leonard, is the thing really to come off to-morrow?

LEONARD. He who thinks, feels, and acts with the most force among us, has sent me to you to
appoint an interview. He will himself answer your question.

THE BAPTIZED. I go to meet him. Brethren, remain at work. Look well to them, citizen Yankel.

  Exit with Leonard.

CHORUS OF BAPTIZED JEWS. Ye ropes and daggers, ye clubs and bills, the works of our hands,
ye wilt go forth to destroy them!

The people will kill the nobles upon the plains, will hang them in the forests, and then, having
none to defend them, we will kill and hang the people! The Despised will arise in their anger,
will array themselves in the might of Jehovah: His Word is Redemption and Love for His people
Israel, but scorn and fury for their enemies!

Let us thrice spew them forth to destruction: threefold curses fall upon them!

       *       *       *       *       *

  A tent. A profusion of flasks, cups, and
  flagons. Pancratius alone.

PANCRATIUS. The mob howled in applause but a moment ago, shouted in loud hurrahs at every word
I uttered. But is there a single man among them all who really understands my ideas, or who
comprehends the end and aim of that path upon which we have entered, or where the reforms will
terminate which have been so loudly inaugurated within the last hour? 'Ah! fervidum imitatorum
pecus!'

  Enter Leonard and the Baptized Jew.

Do you know Count Henry?

THE BAPTIZED. I know him well by sight, great citizen, but I am not personally acquainted with
him. I remember once when I was approaching the Lord's Supper, he cried to me, 'Out of the
way!' and looked down upon me with the arrogant look peculiar to the nobles--for which I vowed
him a rope in my soul.

PANCRATIUS. Prepare to visit him early to-morrow morning, and announce to him that it is my
wish to confer with him alone.

THE BAPTIZED. How many men will you send with me on this embassy? I do not think it would be
safe to undertake it without a guard.

PANCRATIUS. You must go alone, my name will be sufficient guard, and the gallows on which you
hung the baron yesterday, your shield.

THE BAPTIZED. Woe is me!

PANCRATIUS. Tell him I will visit him to-morrow night.

THE BAPTIZED. And if he should put me in chains or order me to be hung?

PANCRATIUS. You would die a martyr for the freedom of the people!

THE BAPTIZED. I will sacrifice all for the freedom of the people.--(Aside.) Woe is me!--(Aloud.)
Good night, citizen.

  Exit the Baptized.

LEONARD. Pancratius, why this delay, these half measures, these contracts, this strange interview?
When I swore to honor and obey you, it was because I believed you to be a hero of extremes,
an eagle flying even in the face of the sun directly to its aim; a brave man ready to venture
all upon the cast of a die.

PANCRATIUS. Silence, child!

LEONARD. Everything is ready; the baptized Jews have forged arms and woven ropes; the masses
clamor for immediate orders. Speak but the word now, and the electric sparks will fly, the
millions flash into forked lightnings, kindle into flame, and consume our enemies!

PANCRATIUS. You are young, and the blood mounts rapidly into your brain; but will the hour
of combat find you more resolute than myself?

LEONARD. Think well what you are doing. The nobles, weak and exhausted, have fled for refuge
to the famous fortress of the Holy Trinity,[1] and await our arrival, as men wait the knife
of the guillotine.

[Footnote 1: A renowned fort in Polish history. It stood on the old battlefield between Turkey
and Poland, between Europe and Asia.]

Forward, citizen, attack them without delay, and it is over with them forever!

PANCRATIUS. It can make no difference; they have lost the old energy of their caste in luxury
and idleness. To-morrow or the next day they must fall, what matter which?

LEONARD. What and whom do you fear, and why do you delay?

PANCRATIUS. I fear nothing. I act but in accordance with my own will.

LEONARD. And am I to trust it blindly?

PANCRATIUS. Yes. Blindly.

LEONARD. You may betray us, citizen!

PANCRATIUS. Betrayal rings forever from your lips like the refrain of an old song.

But hush! not so loud--if any one should hear us ...

LEONARD. There are no spies here; and what if some one should hear us?

PANCRATIUS. Nothing; only five balls in your heart for having ventured to raise your voice
a tone too high in my presence. (Approaching close to him.) Leonard, trust me, and be tranquil!

LEONARD. I confess I have been too hasty, but I fear no punishment. If my death could help
the cause of the down-trodden masses, I would cheerfully die.

PANCRATIUS. You are full of life, hope, faith. Happiest of men, I will not rob you of the bliss
of existence.

LEONARD. What do you say, citizen?

PANCRATIUS. Think more; speak less; the time will come when you will fully understand me!

Have you collected the provisions for the carousal of the millions?

LEONARD. They have all been sent to the arsenal under guard.

PANCRATIUS. Has the contribution from the shoemakers been received?

LEONARD. It has. Every one gave with the greatest eagerness; it amounts to a hundred thousand.

PANCRATIUS. They must all be invited to a general festival to-morrow.

Have you heard nothing of Count Henry?

LEONARD. I despise the nobles too deeply to credit what I hear of him. The dying race have
no energy left; it is impossible they should dare or venture aught.

PANCRATIUS. And yet it is true that he is collecting and training his serfs and peasants, and,
confiding in their devotion and attachment to himself, intends leading them to the relief of
the fortress of the Holy Trinity.

LEONARD. Who can oppose us? The ideas of our century stand incorporated in us!

PANCRATIUS. I am determined to see Count Henry, to gaze into his eyes, to read the very depths
of his brave spirit, to win him over to the glorious cause of the people.

LEONARD. An aristocrat, body and soul!

PANCRATIUS. True: but also a Poet!

Good night, Leonard, I would be alone.

LEONARD. Have you forgiven me, citizen?

PANCRATIUS. Sleep in peace: if I had not forgiven you, you would ere this have slept the eternal
sleep.

LEONARD. And will nothing take place to-morrow?

PANCRATIUS. Good night, and pleasant dreams!

  Leonard is retiring.

Ho, Leonard!

LEONARD. Citizen general?

PANCRATIUS. You will accompany me day after morrow on my visit to Count Henry.

LEONARD. I will obey.

  Exit Leonard.

PANCRATIUS. How is it that this man, Count Henry, still dares to resist and defy me, the ruler
of millions? His forces will bear no comparison with mine; indeed he stands almost alone, although
it is true that some hundred or two of peasants, confiding blindly in his word and clinging
to him as the dog clings to his master, still cluster round him--but that is all folly, and
can amount to nothing. Why, then, do I long to see him, long to win him to our side? Has my
spirit for the first time encountered its equal? Can it progress no farther in the path in
which he stands to oppose me? His resistance is the last obstacle to be overcome--he must be
overthrown--and then? ... and then! ...

O my cunning intellect! Canst thou not deceive thyself as thou hast deceived others?...

Shame! thou shouldst know thine own might! Thou art thought, the intelligence and reason of
the people--the ruler of the masses--thou controllest the millions, so that their will and
giant force is one with thine--all authority and government are incarnated and concentrated
in thee alone--all that would be crime in others is in thee fame and glory--thou hast given
name and place to unknown and obscure men--thou hast given faith and eloquence to beings who
had been almost robbed of moral sentiment--thou hast created a new world in thine own image,
and art thyself its god! and yet ... and yet ... thou art wandering in unknown wastes, and
fearest to be lost thyself--to go astray!

Thou knowest not thyself, nor of what thou art capable; thou rulest others, yet doubt'st thyself--thou
knowest not what thou art--whither thou goest--nor whence thou earnest! No ... no.... Thou
art sublime!

  Sinks upon a chair in silent thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

     A forest, with a cleared hill in its midst, upon which stands a
     gallows; huts, tents, watchfires, barrels, tables, and crowds of
     men. The Man disguised in a dark cloak and red liberty cap, and
     holding the Baptized Jew by the hand.

THE MAN. Remember!

THE BAPTIZED (in a whisper). Upon my honor, I will lead your excellency aright, I will not
betray you.

THE MAN. Give but one suspicious wink, raise but a finger, and my bullet finds its way to your
heart! You may readily imagine that I attach no great value to your life when I thus lightly
risk my own.

THE BAPTIZED. Oh woe! You press my hand like a vice of steel. What is it you wish me to do?

THE MAN. Appear to the crowd as if I were an acquaintance--treat me as a newly arrived friend.

What kind of a dance is that?

THE BAPTIZED. The dance of a free people.

     Men and woman dance, leap, and sing round the gallows.

THEIR CHORUS. Bread! meat! work! wood in winter, rest in summer! Hurrah! hurrah!

God had no compassion upon us: Hurrah! hurrah!

Kings had no compassion upon us: Hurrah! hurrah!

The nobles had no compassion upon us: Hurrah! hurrah!

We renounce God, kings, and nobles: Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah!

THE MAN (to a maiden). I am glad to see you look so gay, so blooming.

THE MAIDEN. I am sure we have waited quite long enough for such a day as this! I have washed
dishes and cleaned knives and forks all my life, without ever having heard a kind word spoken
to me: it is high time I too should begin to eat, to dance, to make merry. Hurrah! hurrah!

THE MAN. Dance, citizeness!

THE BAPTIZED. For God's sake, be cautious, count! You may be recognized; let us go!

THE MAN. If any one should recognize me, you are lost. We will mingle with the throng.

THE BAPTIZED. A crowd of servants are sitting under the shade of this oak.

THE MAN. Let us approach them.

FIRST SERVANT. I have just killed my first master.

SECOND SERVANT. And I am on the search for my baron. Your health, citizens!

VALET DE CHAMBRE. In the sweat of our brows, in the depths of humiliation, licking the dust
from the boots of our masters, and prostrate before them, we have yet always felt our rights
as men: let us drink the health of our present society!

CHORUS OF SERVANTS. Here's to the health of our citizen President! one of ourselves, he will
lead us to glory!

VALET DE CHAMBRE. Thanks, citizens, thanks!

CHORUS OF SERVANTS. Out of dark kitchens, dressing rooms, and antechambers, our prisons of
old, we rush together into freedom: Hurrah!

We know the ridiculous follies, peevishness, and perversity of our masters; we have been behind
the shows and shams of glittering halls: Hurrah!

THE MAN. Whose voices are those I hear so harsh and wild from that little mound on our left?

THE BAPTIZED. The butchers are singing a chorus.

CHORUS OF THE BUTCHERS. The cleaver and axe are our weapons; our life is in the slaughter house;
we know the hue of blood, and care not if we kill cattle or nobles!

Children of blood and strength, we look with indifference upon the pale and weak; he who needs
us, has us; we slaughter beeves for the nobles; the nobles for the people!

The cleaver and axe are our arms; our life is in the slaughter house: Hurrah for the slaughter
house! the slaughter house! the slaughter house! the slaughter house!

THE MAN. Come! I like the next group better; honor and philosophy are at least named in it.
Good evening, madame!

THE BAPTIZED. It would be better if your excellency should say, 'citizeness,' or 'woman of
freedom.'

WOMAN. What do you mean by the title, 'madame?' From whence did it come? Fie! fie! you smell
of mould!

THE MAN. Pardon my mistake!

WOMAN. I am as free as you, I am a free woman; I give my love freely to the community, because
they have acknowledged my right to lavish it where I will!

THE MAN. And have the community given you for it these jewelled rings, these chains of violet
amethysts?... O thrice beneficent community!

THE WOMAN. No, the community did not give them to me; but at my emancipation I took these things
secretly from the casket of my husband, for he was my enemy, the enemy of freedom, and had
long held me enslaved!

THE MAN. Citizeness, I wish you a most agreeable promenade!

     They pass on.

Who is this marvellous-looking warrior leaning upon a two-edged sword, with a death's head
upon his cap, another upon his badge, and a third upon his breast? Is he not the famous Bianchetti,
a condottiere employed by the people, as the condottieri once were by the kings and nobles?

THE BAPTIZED. Yes, it is Bianchetti; he has been with us for the last eight or ten days.

THE MAN (to Bianchetti). What is General Bianchetti considering with so much attention?

BIANCHETTI. Look through this opening in the woods, citizen, and you will see a castle upon
a hill: with my glass I can see the walls, ramparts, bastions, etc.

THE MAN. It will be hard to take, will it not?

BIANCHETTI. Kings and devils! it can be surrounded by subterranean passages, undermined, and....

THE BAPTIZED (winking at Bianchetti). Citizen general....

THE MAN (in a whisper to the Baptized). Look under my cloak how the cock of my pistol is raised!

THE BAPTIZED (aside). Oh woe!--(Aloud.) How do you mean to conduct the siege, citizen general?

BIANCHETTI. Although you are my brother in freedom, you are not my confidant in strategy. After
the capitulation of the castle, my plans will be made public.

THE MAN (to the Baptized). Take my advice, Jew, and strike him dead, for such is the beginning
of all aristocracies.

A WEAVER. Curses! curses! curses!

THE MAN. Poor fellow! what are you doing under this tree, and why do you look so pale and wild?

THE WEAVER. Curses upon the merchants and manufacturers! All the best years of my life, years
in which other men love maidens, meet in wide plains, or sail upon vast seas, with free air
and open space around them, I have spent in a narrow, dark, gloomy room, chained like a galley
slave to a silk loom!

THE MAN. Take some food! Empty the full cup which you hold in your hand!

WEAVER. I have not strength enough left to carry it to my lips! I am so tired; I could scarcely
crawl up here--it is the day of freedom! but a day of freedom is not for me--it comes too late,
too late!--(He falls, and gasps out:) Curses upon the manufacturers who make silks! upon the
merchants, who buy them! upon the nobles, who wear them! Curses! curses! curses!

     He writhes on the ground and dies.

THE BAPTIZED. What a ghastly corpse!

THE MAN. Baptized Jew, citizen, poltroon of freedom, look upon this lifeless head, shining
in the blood-red rays of the setting sun! Where are now your words and promises; the equality,
perfectibility, and universal happiness of the human race?

THE BAPTIZED (aside). May you soon fall into a like ruin, and the dogs tear the flesh from
your rotting corpse!--(Aloud.) I beg that your excellency will now permit me to return, that
I may give an account of my embassy!

THE MAN. You may say that, believing you to be a spy, I forcibly detained you.--(Looking around
him.) The tumult and noise of the carousal is dying away behind us; before us there is nothing
to be seen but fir and pine trees bathed in the crimson rays of sunset.

THE BAPTIZED. Clouds are gathering thick and fast over the tops of the trees: had you not better
return to your people, Count Henry, who have been waiting so long for you in the vault of St.
Ignatius?

THE MAN. Thank you for your exceeding care of me, Sir Jew! But back! I will return and take
another look at the festival of the citizens.

VOICES (under the trees). The children of Ham bid good night to thee, old Sun!

VOICE (on the right). Here's to thy health, old enemy! Thou hast long driven us on to unpaid
work, and awaked us early to unheeded pain! Ha! ha! When thou risest upon us to-morrow, thou
wilt find us with fish and flesh: now off to the devil, empty glass!

THE BAPTIZED. The bands of peasants are coming this way.

THE MAN. You shall not leave me. Place yourself behind this tree trunk, and be silent!

CHORUS OF PEASANTS. Forward, forward, under the white tents to meet our brethren! Forward,
forward, under the green shade of the beeches, to rest, to sleep, to pleasant sunset greetings!

Our maidens there await us; there await us our slaughtered oxen, the old teams of our ploughs!

A VOICE. I am pulling and dragging him on with all my strength--now he turns and defends himself--down!
down among the dead!

VOICE OF THE DYING NOBLE. My children, pity! pity!

SECOND VOICE. Chain me to your land and make me work without pay again--will you!

THIRD VOICE. My only son fell under the blows of your lash, old lord; either wake him from
the dead, or die to join him!

FOURTH VOICE. The children of Ham drink thy health, old lord! they beg thee for forgiveness, lord!

CHORUS OF PEASANTS (passing on out of sight). A vampire sucked our blood, and lived upon our
strength:

We have caught the vampire, he shall escape no more!

By Satan, thou shalt hang as high as a great lord should!

By Satan, thou shalt die high, high above us all!

Death to the nobles; tyrants were they all!

Drink, food, and rest for us; poor, weary, hungry, thirsty, naked!

Your bodies shall lie like sheaves upon our fields; the ruins of your castles fly like chaff
beneath the flail of the thresher!

VOICE. The children of Ham will dance merrily round their bonfires!

THE MAN. I cannot see the face of the murdered noble, they throng so thickly round him.

THE BAPTIZED. It is in all probability a friend or relation of your excellency!

THE MAN. I despise him, and hate you!

Poetry will sweeten all this horror hereafter. Forward, Jew, forward!

     They disappear among the trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Another part of the forest. A mound upon which watchfires are
     burning. A procession of people bearing torches.

THE MAN (appearing among them with the Baptized). These drooping branches have torn my liberty
cap into tatters.

Ha! what hell of flame is this throwing its crimson light into the gloom, and leaping through
these heavily fringed walls of the forest?

THE BAPTIZED. We have wandered from our way while seeking the pass of St. Ignatius. We must
retrace our steps immediately, for this is the spot in which Leonard celebrates the solemnities
of the New Faith!

THE MAN. Forward, in the name of God! I must see these solemnities. Fear nothing, Jew, no one
will recognize us.

THE BAPTIZED. Be prudent; our lives hang on a breath!

THE MAN. What enormous ruins are these scattered around us! This ponderous pile must have lasted
centuries before it fell!

Pillars, pedestals, capitals, fallen arches--ha! I am treading upon the broken remnants of
an escutcheon. Bas-reliefs of exquisite sculpture are scattered about upon the earth! Heavens!
that is the sweet face of the Virgin Mother shining through the heart of the darkness! The
light flickers, I can see it no more. Here are the slight-fluted shafts of a shrine, panes
of colored glass with cherub heads, a carved railing of bronze, and now, in the light of yonder
torch, I see the half of a monumental figure of a reclining knight in armor thrown upon the
burnt and withered grass: Where am I, Jew?

THE BAPTIZED. You are passing through the graveyard of the last church of the Old Faith; our
people labored forty days and forty nights without intermission to destroy it; it seemed built
for eternal ages.

THE MAN. Your songs and hymns, ye new men, grate harshly on my ears!

Dark forms are moving forward in every direction, from before us, behind us, and from either
side; lights and shadows, driven to and fro by the wind, float like living spirits through
the throng.

A PASSER-BY. I greet you, citizens, in the name of freedom!

SECOND PASSER-BY. I greet you in the name of the slaughter of the nobles!

THIRD PASSER-BY. The priests chant the praise of freedom; why do you not hasten forward?

THE BAPTIZED. We cannot resist the pressure of the throng; they drive us on from every side.

THE MAN. Who is this young man standing in front of us, mounted upon the ruins of the shrine?
Three flames burn beneath him, his face shines from the midst of fire and smoke, his voice
rings like the shriek of a maniac; and his gestures are rapid and eager?

THE BAPTIZED. That is Leonard, the inspired and enthusiastic prophet of freedom. Our priests,
our philosophers, our poets, our artists, with their daughters and loved ones, are standing
round him.

THE MAN. Ha, I understand; your aristocracy! Point out to me the man who sent you to seek an
interview with me.

THE BAPTIZED. He is not here.

LEONARD. Fly to my arms; cling to my lips; come to me, my beautiful bride! Independent, free,
stripped of the veils of hypocrisy, full of love, untrammelled from the chilling fetters of
prejudice, come to me, thou chosen one of the lovely daughters of freedom!

VOICE OF A MAIDEN. I fly to thee, beloved one!

SECOND MAIDEN. Look upon me! I stretch forth my arms to thee, but have sunk fainting among
the ruins; I cannot rise, and have only strength left to turn to thee, beloved!

THIRD MAIDEN. I have outstripped them all; through cinders and ashes, flame and smoke, I fly
to thee, beloved!

THE MAN. With long, dishevelled hair far floating on the wind, with snowy bosom panting with
wild excitement, she clambers up the smoking ruins to his arms!

THE BAPTIZED. Thus is it every night.

LEONARD. To me! to me! my bliss, my rapture! Lovely daughter of freedom, thou tremblest with
delicious, god-like madness!

Inspiration, flood my soul! Listen to me, all ye people, for now will I prophesy unto you!

THE MAN. Her head sinks on his bosom; she faints in his arms.

LEONARD. Look upon us, ye people! we offer you an image of the human race, freed from trammels,
and risen into new life from the death of forms. We stand upon the ruins of old dogmas, of
old gods; yea, glory unto us, for we have torn the old gods limb from limb!

They have rotted into dust; our spirits have conquered theirs; their very souls have fallen
into the abyss of nothingness!

CHORUS OF WOMEN. Happy among women is the bride of the prophet: we stand below and envy her glory!

LEONARD. I announce to you a new world; to a new god I have given the heavens; to the god of
freedom and of bliss, the god of the people; every offering of their vengeance, the piled corpses
of their oppressors, be his fitting altar! The old tears and agonies of humanity will be forever
swept away in an ocean of blood!

We now inaugurate the perpetual happiness of men; freedom and equality belong of right to all!

Damnation and the gallows to him who would reorganize the Past; to him who would conspire against
the common fraternity!

CHORUS OF MEN. The towers of superstition, of tyranny, of pride, have fallen, have fallen!
To him who would save one stone from the old buildings--damnation and death!

THE BAPTIZED (aside). Ye blasphemers of Jehovah, I thrice spew you forth to destruction!

THE MAN. Keep but thy promise, Eagle, and I will build on this very spot and upon their bowed
necks a new temple to the Son of God, the Merciful!

A CONFUSED CRY FROM MINGLING VOICES. Freedom! Equality! Bliss! Hurrah! hurrah!

CHORUS OF THE NEW PRIESTS. Where are the lords, where are the kings, who lately walked the
earth with crown and sceptre, ruled with pride and scorn?

FIRST MURDERER. I killed King Alexander.

SECOND MURDERER. I stabbed King Henry.

THIRD MURDERER. I murdered King Immanuel!

LEONARD. Go on without fear; murder without a sting of conscience!

Remember that you are the Elect of the Elect; the Holy among the Holy; the brave heroes and
blessed martyrs of equality and freedom!

CHORUS OF MURDERERS. We go in the darkness of night; we move in the gloom of the shadow! With
the dagger firmly clutched in our unsparing hands, we go, we go!

LEONARD (to the Maiden). Arouse thee, my beautiful and free!

     A loud clap of thunder is heard.

Reply to the living god of thunder: raise high the hymn of strength! Follow me all, all! Let
us once more trample under our feet the ruined temple of the dead God!

THE MAIDEN. I glow with love to thee and to thy god! I will share my love with the whole world:
I glow! I glow!

THE MAN. Some one blocks the way; he falls upon his knees, raises his joined hands, struggles,
sighs, sobs....

THE BAPTIZED. He is the son of a famous philosopher.

LEONARD. What do you demand, Herman?

HERMAN. High priest, give me the Sacrament of Murder!

LEONARD (to the Priests). Give me the oil, the dagger, and the poison!--(To Herman.) With the
sacred oil once used to anoint kings, I now anoint thee to their destruction!

The arm once used by knights and nobles, I give thee now for their destruction!

I hang upon thy breast this flask of poison, that where the sword cannot reach, it may gnaw,
corrode, and burn the bowels of the tyrants!

Go, and destroy the old race in all parts of the world!

THE MAN. He is gone! I see him, at the head of a band of assassins, crossing the crest of the
nearest hill.

THE BAPTIZED. They turn, they approach us, we must move out of their way!

THE MAN. No. I will dream this dream to its end!

THE BAPTIZED (aside). I thrice spew thee forth to destruction!--(To the Man). Leonard might
recognize me, your excellency. Do you not see the knife glittering upon his breast?

THE MAN. Wrap yourself up in my cloak. What ladies are those dancing before him you call Leonard?

THE BAPTIZED. Princesses and countesses who have forsaken their husbands.

THE MAN. Once my angels!!

The people now surround him on every side, I can see him no longer, I only know by the retreating
music that he is going farther from us. Follow me, Jew, we can see him better up here!

     He clambers up the parapet of a wall.

THE BAPTIZED. Woe! woe! We will certainly be discovered.

THE MAN. There, now I can see him again! Ha! other women are with him now, pale, confused,
trembling, following him convulsively; the son of the philosopher foams and brandishes his
dagger; they are stopping by the ruins of the North Tower.

They remain standing for a moment, they climb upon the ruins, they tear them down, they pull
the shrine apart, they throw coals upon the prostrate altars, the votive wreaths, the holy
pictures; the fire kindles, columns of smoke darken all before me: Woe to the destroyers! Woe!

LEONARD. Woe to the men who still bow down before the dead God!

THE MAN. Dark masses of the people turn and drive upon us.

THE BAPTIZED. O Father Abraham!

THE MAN. Old Eagle of glory, is it not true that my hour is not yet come?

THE BAPTIZED. We are lost!

LEONARD (stopping immediately in front of Count Henry). Who are you with that haughty face,
citizen, and why do you not join in the solemnities?

THE MAN. I hastened here when I heard of the revolution; I am a murderer of the Spanish league,
and have only arrived to-day.

LEONARD. Who is that man hiding himself in the folds of your mantle?

THE MAN. He is my younger brother. He has taken an oath to show his face to no one, until he
has at least killed a baron.

LEONARD. Of whose murder can you yourself boast?

THE MAN. My elder brothers consecrated me only two days before my departure, and....

LEONARD. Whom do you think of killing?

THE MAN. You in the first place, if you should prove false to us!

LEONARD. For this use, brother, take my dagger!

     Hands it to him.

THE MAN. For such use my own will suffice me, brother!

MANY VOICES. Long live Leonard! Long live the Spanish murderer!

LEONARD. Meet me to-morrow in the tent of Pancratius, our citizen general.

CHORUS OF PRIESTS. We greet thee, stranger, in the name of the Spirit of Liberty: we intrust
to thy hand a share of our emancipation!

To men who combat without cessation, who kill without pity or weakness, who work for freedom
by day, and dream of it by night, will be at last the victory!

     They pass on out of sight.

CHORUS OF PHILOSOPHERS. We have wakened the human race, and torn them away from the days of
childhood! We have found truth, and brought it to light from the womb of darkness! Combat,
murder, and die for it, brethren!

THE SON OF THE PHILOSOPHER (to the Man). Brother and friend, I drink your health out of the
skull of an old saint! May we soon meet again!

A MAIDEN (dancing). Kill Prince John for me!

SECOND MAIDEN. Count Henry for me!

CHILDREN. Bring us back the head of a noble for a ball.

OTHER VOICES. Good fortune guide your daggers home!

CHORUS OF ARTISTS. On these sublime old ruins we build no temples more; we paint no pictures,
mould no statues for forgotten shrines; our arches shall be formed of pointed pikes and naked
blades; our pillars built of ghastly piles of human skulls; the capitals of human hair dyed
in gushing streams of crimson blood; our altar shall be white as snow, our god will rest upon
it, the cap of liberty: Hurrah! hurrah!

OTHER VOICES. On! on! the morning dawn already breaks!

THE BAPTIZED. They will soon catch and hang us; we are but one step from the gallows.

THE MAN. Fear nothing, Jew, they follow Leonard, and observe us no longer. I see with my own
eyes, I understand with my own mind, and for the last time before it engulfs me, the chaos
now generating in the abyss of Time, in the womb of Darkness, for my own destruction, for the
annihilation of my brethren!

Driven on by madness, stung by despair, my thoughts awake in all their strength....

O God! give me again the power which Thou didst not of old deny me, and I will condense this
new and fearful world, which does not understand itself, into one burning word, but which one
word will be the Poetry of the entire Past!

VOICE IN THE AIR. Poet, thou chant'st a drama!

THE MAN. Thanks for thy good counsel!

Revenge for the desecrated ashes of my fathers--malediction upon the new races! their whirlpool
is around me, but it shall not draw me into the giddying and increasing circles of its abyss!
Keep but thy promise, Eagle; Eagle of glory!

Jew, I am ready now for the vault of St. Ignatius!

THE BAPTIZED. The day dawns; I can go no farther.

THE MAN. Lead me on until we strike the right path; I will then release you!

THE BAPTIZED. Why do you drag me on through mist, through thorns and briers, through ashes
and embers, over heaps of ruins? Let me go, I entreat!

THE MAN. Forward! forward! and descend with me!

The last songs of the people are dying away behind us; a few torches here and there just glimmer
through the gloom!

Ha! under those hoary trees drooping with the night dew, and through this curdling, whitening
vapor, see you not the giant shadow of the dead Past? Hark! hear you not that wailing chant?

THE BAPTIZED. Everything is shrouded in the thickening mist; at every step we descend, deeper,
deeper!

CHORUS OF WOOD SPIRITS. Let us weep for Christ, the persecuted, martyred Jesus!

Where is our God; where is His church?

THE MAN. Unsheathe the sword--to arms! to arms!

I will restore Him to you; upon thousands and thousands of crosses will I crucify His enemies!

CHORUS OF SPIRITS. We kept guard by day and night around the altar and the holy graves; upon
untiring wings we bore the matin chime and vesper bell to the ear of the believer; our voices
floated on the organ's peal! In the glitter of the stained and rainbow panes, the shadows of
the vaulted domes, the light of the holy chalice, the blessed consecration of the Body of our
Lord--was our whole life centred!

Woe! woe! what will become of us?

THE MAN. It is growing lighter; their dim forms fade and melt into the red of morn!

THE BAPTIZED. Here lies your way: this is the entrance to the Pass.

THE MAN. Hail! Christ Jesus and my sword! (He tears off the liberty cap, throws it upon the
ground, and casts pieces of silver upon it.) Take together the Thing and the Image for a remembrance!

THE BAPTIZED. You pledge your word to me for the honorable treatment of him who will visit
you at midnight?

THE MAN. An old noble never repeats or breaks a promise!

Hail! Christ Jesus and our swords!

VOICES (from the depths of the Pass). Mary and our swords! Long live our lord, Count Henry!

THE MAN. My faithful followers, to me--to me!

Aid me, Mary, and Christ Jesus!

       *       *       *       *       *

     Night. Trees and shrubbery. Pancratius, Leonard, and attendants.

PANCRATIUS (to his attendants). Lie upon this spot with your faces to the turf, remain perfectly
still, kindle no fires, beat no signals, and, unless you hear the report of firearms, stir
not until the dawn of day!

LEONARD. I once more conjure you, citizen!

PANCRATIUS. Lean against this tall pine, Leonard, and pass the night in reflection.

LEONARD. I pray you, Pancratius, take me with you! Remember, you are about to intrust yourself
alone with an aristocrat, a betrayer, an oppressor....

PANCRATIUS (interrupting him, and impatiently gesturing to him to remain behind). The old nobles
seldom broke a plighted promise!

       *       *       *       *       *

     A vast feudal hall in the castle of Count Henry. Pictures of
     knights and ladies hang upon the walls. A pillar is seen in the
     background bearing the arms and escutcheons of the family. The
     Count is seated at a marble table upon which are placed an antique
     lamp of wrought silver, a jewel-hilted sword, a pair of pistols, an
     hourglass, and clock. Another table stands on the opposite side,
     with silver pitchers, decanters, and massive goblets.

THE MAN. At the same hour, surrounded by appalling perils, agitated by foreboding thoughts,
the last Brutus met his Evil Genius.

I await a like apparition. A man without a name, without ancestors, without a faith or guardian
angel; a man who is destroying the Past, and who will, in all probability, establish a new
era, though himself sprung from the very dust, if I cannot succeed in casting him back into
his original nothingness--is now to appear before me!

Spirit of my forefathers! inspire me with that haughty energy which once rendered you the rulers
of the world! Give me the lion heart which erst throbbed in your dauntless breasts! Give me
your peerless dignity, your noble and chivalric courtesy!

Rekindle in my wavering soul your blind, undoubting, earnest faith in Christ and in His church:
at once the source of your noblest deeds on earth, your brightest hopes in heaven! Oh, let
it open for me, as it was wont to do for you; and I will struggle with fire and sword against
its enemies! Hear me, the son of countless generations, the sole heir of your thoughts, your
courage, your virtues, and your faults!

     The castle bell sounds twelve.

It is the appointed hour: I am prepared!

     An old and faithful servant, Jacob, enters, fully armed.

JACOB. My lord, the person whom your excellency expects is in the castle.

THE MAN. Admit him here.

     Exit Jacob.

     He reappears, announcing Pancratius, and again retires.

PANCRATIUS. Count Henry, I salute you! The word 'count' sounds strangely on my lips.

     He seats himself, throws off his cloak and liberty cap, and fastens
     his eyes on the pillar on which hang the arms and shield.

THE MAN. Thanks, guest, that you have confided in the honor of my house! Faithful to our ancient
forms, I pledge you in a glass of wine. Your good health, guest!

     He takes a goblet, fills, tastes, and hands it to Pancratius.

PANCRATIUS. If I am not mistaken, this red and blue shield was called a coat of arms in the
language of the Dead; but such trifles have vanished from the face of the earth.

     He drinks.

THE MAN. Vanished? With the aid of God, you will soon look upon them by thousands!

PANCRATIUS. Commend me to the old noble! always confident in himself, though without money,
arms, or soldiers; proud, obstinate, and hoping against all hope; like the corpse in the fable,
threatening the driver of the hearse at the very door of the charnel house, and confiding in
God, or at least pretending to confide in Him, when confidence in himself is no longer even
possible!

Pray, Count Henry, give me but one little glimpse of the lightning which is to be sent from
heaven, for your especial benefit, to blast me and my millions; or show me at least one angel
of the thousands of the heavenly hosts, who are to encamp on your side, and whose prowess is
so speedily to decide the combat in your favor!

     He empties the goblet.

THE MAN. You are pleased to jest, leader of the people; but atheism is quite an old formula,
and I looked for something new from the new men!

PANCRATIUS. Laugh, if you will, at your own wit, but my faith is wider, deeper, and more firmly
based than your own. Its central dogma is the emancipation of humanity. It has its source in
the cries of despair which rise unceasingly to heaven from the hearts of tortured millions,
in the famine of the operatives, the grinding poverty of the peasants, the desecration of their
wives and daughters, the degradation of the race through unjust laws and debasing and brutal
prejudices--from all this agony spring my new formulas, the creed which I am determined to
establish: 'Man has a birthright of happiness.' These thoughts are my god, a god which will
give bread, rest, bliss, glory to man!

     He fills, drinks, and casts and goblet from him.

THE MAN. I place my trust in that God who gave power and rule, into the hands of my forefathers!

PANCRATIUS. You trust Him still, and yet through your whole life you have been but a plaything
in the hands of the Devil!

But let us leave such discussions to the theologians, if any such still linger upon earth:--to
business, Count Henry, to stern facts!

THE MAN. What do you seek from me, redeemer of the people, citizen-god?

PANCRATIUS. I sought you, in the first place, because I wished to know you; in the second,
because I desire to save you.

THE MAN. For the first, receive my thanks; for the second, trust my sword!

PANCRATIUS. Your God! your sword! vain phantoms of the brain! Look at the dread realities of
your situation! The curses of the millions are upon you; myriads of brawny arms are already
raised to hurl you to destruction! Of all the vaunted Past nothing remains to you save a few
feet of earth, scarcely enough to offer you a grave. Even your last fortress, the castle of
the Holy Trinity, can hold out but a few days longer. Where is your artillery? Where are the
arms and provisions for your soldiers? Where are your soldiers? and what dependence can you
place on the few you still retain? You must surely know there is nothing left you on which
to hang a single hope!

If I were in your place, Count Henry, I know what I would do!

THE MAN. Speak! you see how patiently I listen!

PANCRATIUS. Were I Count Henry, I would say to Pancratius: 'I will dismiss my troops, my few
retainers; I will not go to the relief of the Holy Trinity--and for this I will retain my title
and my estates; and you, Pancratius, will pledge your own honor to guarantee me the possession
of the things I require.'

How old are you, Count Henry?

THE MAN. I am thirty-six years old, citizen.

PANCRATIUS. Then you have but about fifteen years of life to expect, for men of your temperament
die young; your son is nearer to the grave than to maturity. A single exception, such as yours,
can do no harm to the great whole. Remain, then, where you are, the last of the counts. Rule,
as long as you shall live, in the house of your fathers; have your family portraits retouched,
your armorial bearings renewed, and think no more of the wretched remnant of your fallen order.
Let the justice of the long-injured people be fulfilled upon them! (He fills for himself another
cup.) Your good health, Henry, the last of the counts!

THE MAN. Every word you utter is a new insult to me! Do you really believe that, to save a
dishonored life, I would suffer myself to be enslaved and dragged about, chained to your car
of triumph?

Cease! cease! I can endure no longer! I cannot answer as my spirit dictates, for you are my
guest, sheltered from all insult while under my roof by my plighted honor!

PANCRATIUS. Plighted honor and knightly faith have, ere this, swung from a gallows! You unfurl
a tattered banner whose faded rags seem strangely out of place among the brilliant flags and
joyous symbols of universal humanitarian progress. Oh, I know you, and protest against your
course! Full of life and generous vigor, you bind to your heart a putrefying corpse! You court
your own destruction, clinging to a vain belief in privileged orders, in worn-out relics, in
the bones of dead men, in mouldering escutcheons and forgotten coats of arms--and yet in your
inmost heart you are forced to acknowledge that your brother nobles have deserved their punishment,
that forgetfulness were mercy for them!

THE MAN. You, Pancratius, and your followers, what do you deserve?

PANCRATIUS. Victory and life! I acknowledge but one right, I bow to but one law, the law of
perpetual progress, and this law is your death warrant. It cries to you through my lips: 'Worm-eaten,
mouldering aristocracy! full of rottenness, crammed with meat and wine, satiated with luxury--give
place to the young, the strong, the hungry!'

But I will save you, and you alone!

THE MAN. Cease! I will not brook your arrogant pity!

I know you, and your new world; I have visited your camp at night, and looked upon the restless
swarms upon whose necks you ride to power! I saw all: I detected the old crimes peering through
the thin veils of new draperies, shining under new shams, whirling to new tunes, circling in
new dances--but the end was ever the same which it has been for centuries, which it will forever
be: adultery, license, theft, gold, blood!

But I saw you not there; you were not with your guilty children; you know you despise them
in the depths of your soul; and if you do not go mad yourself in the mad dances of the blood-thirsty
and blood-drunken people, you will soon scorn and despise yourself!

Torture me no more!

     He rises, moves hurriedly to and fro, then seats himself under his
     escutcheon.

PANCRATIUS. It is true my world is in its infancy, unformed and undeveloped; it requires food,
ease, material gratifications; but it is growing, and the time will come--(He rises from his
chair, approaches the count, and leans against the pillar supporting the escutcheons)--the
time will come when my world will arrive at maturity, will attain the consciousness of its
own strength, when it will say, I AM; and there will be no other voice on earth able to reply,
'I ALSO AM!'

THE MAN. And then?

PANCRATIUS. A race will spring from the generation I am now quickening and elevating, stronger,
higher, and nobler than any the world has yet produced; the earth has never yet seen such men
upon her bosom. They will be free, lords of the globe from pole to pole; the earth will be
a blooming garden, every part of her surface under the highest culture; the sea will be covered
with floating palaces and argosies of wealth and commerce; a universal exchange of commodities
will carry civilization, mutual recognition, and comfort to every clime; prosperous cities
will crown every height, and expand their blessings of refinement and culture o'er every plain;
earth will then offer happy and tranquil homes to all her children, she will be one vast and
united house of blissful industry and highest art!

THE MAN. Your words and voice dissemble well, but your pale and rigid features in vain struggle
to assume the generous glow of a noble enthusiasm, which your soul cannot feel.

PANCRATIUS. Interrupt me not! Men have begged on bended knees before me for such prophecies.

The world of the Future will possess a god whose highest fact will not be his own defeat and
death upon a cross; a god whom the people, by their own power and skill, will force to unveil
his face to them; a god who will be torn by the very children whom he once scattered over the
face of the earth in his anger, from the infinite recesses of the distant heavens in which
he loves to hide! Babel will be no more, all tribes and nations will meet and understand their
mutual wants, and, united by a universal language, his scattered children, having attained
their majority, assert their right to know their creator, and claim their just inheritance
from a common father: 'the full possession of all truth!'

The god of humanity at last reveals himself to man!

THE MAN. Yes, He revealed Himself some centuries ago; through Him is humanity already redeemed.

PANCRATIUS. Alas! let the redeemed delight in the sweetness of such redemption! let them rejoice
in the multiplied agonies which have in vain cried to a Redeemer for relief during the three
thousand years which have elapsed since His defeat and death!

THE MAN. Blasphemer, cease! I have seen the Cross, the holy symbol of His mystic love, standing
in the heart of the eternal city, Rome; the ruins of a power far greater than thine were crumbling
into dust around It; hundreds of gods such as those you trust in, were lying prostrate on the
ground, trampled under careless feet, not even daring to raise their crushed and wounded heads
to gaze upon the Crucified. It stood upon the seven hills, stretching its mighty arms to the
east and to the west, its holy brow glittering in the golden sunshine; men wistfully gazed
upon its perfect lesson of self-abnegating Love; it won all hearts, it RULED THE WORLD!

PANCRATIUS. An old wife's tale, hollow as the rattling of these vain escutcheons! (He strikes
the shield.) These discussions are in vain, for I have read all the secrets of your yearning
heart! If you really wish to find the infinite which has so long baffled your search; if you
love the truth, and are willing to suffer for it; if you are a man, created in the image of
our common humanity, and not the impossible hero of an old nursery song--listen to me! Oh,
let not these rapidly fleeting moments, the last in which you can possibly be saved, pass in
vain! The race renews itself, man of the Past; and of the blood we shed to-day, no trace will
be found to-morrow! For the last time I conjure you, if you are what you once appeared to be,
A MAN, rise in your former might, aid the down-trodden and oppressed people, help to emancipate
and enlighten your fellow men, work for the common good, forsake your false ideas of a personal
glory, quit these tottering ruins which all your pride and power cannot prevent from crumbling
o'er you, desert your falling house, and follow me!

THE MAN. O youngest born of Satan's brood!--(He paces up and down the hall, speaking to himself:)
Dreams, dreams, beautiful dreams--but their realization is impossible! Who could achieve them?
Adam died in the desert--the flaming sword still guards the gates--we are never more to enter
Paradise! In vain we dream!

PANCRATIUS (aside). I have driven the probe to the core of his heart; I have struck the electric
nerve of Poetry, which quivers through the very base of his complicated being!

THE MAN. Progress of humanity; universal happiness; I once believed them possible! There--there--take
my head--my life--if that were possi--.... (He sighs, and is silent for a moment.) It is past!
two centuries ago it might have been--but now.... But now I have seen and know there will be
nothing but assassination and murder--murder on either side--nothing can satisfy now but an
unceasing war of mutual extermination!

PANCRATIUS. Woe then to the vanquished! Falter not, seeker of universal happiness! Cry but
once with us: 'Woe to the oppressors of the people!' and stand preëminent o'er all, the First
among the Victors!

THE MAN. Have you already explored all the paths in the dark and unknown country of the Future?
Did Destiny, withdrawing at midnight the curtains of your tent, stand visibly before you, and,
placing her giant hand upon your scheming brain, impress upon it the mystic seal of victory?
or in the heat of midday, when the world slept, and you alone were watching, did she glide
pale, pitiless, and stern before you, and promise conquest, that you thus threaten me with
defeat and ruin? You are but a man of clay as fragile as my own, and may be the victim of the
first well-aimed ball, the first sharp thrust of the sword! Your life, like mine, hangs on
a single thread, and you have no immunity from death!

PANCRATIUS. Dreams! idle dreams! Oh do not deceive yourself with hopes so vain, for no bullet
aimed by man will reach me, no sword will pierce me, while a single member of your haughty
caste remains capable of resisting the task which it is my destiny to fulfil. And what doom
soever may befall me, after its completion, count, will be too late to offer you the least
advantage. (The clock strikes.) Hark! time flies--and scorns us both!

If you are weary of your own life, save at least your unfortunate son!

THE MAN. His pure soul is already saved in heaven: on earth he must share the fate of his father.

     His head sinks heavily, and remains for some time buried in his
     hands.

PANCRATIUS. You reject too all hope for him?... (Pauses.) Nay--you are silent--you reflect--it
is well: reflection becomes him who stands upon the brink of the grave!

THE MAN. Away! away! Back from the passionate mysteries now surging through the depths of my
soul! Profane them not with a word; they lie beyond your sphere!

The rough, wide world belongs to you; feed it with meat; flood it with wine; but press not
into the holy secrets of my heart! Away! away from me, framer of material bliss!

PANCRATIUS. Shame upon you, warrior, scholar, poet, and yet the slave of one idea and its dying
forms! Thought and form are wax beneath my plastic fingers!

THE MAN. In vain would you seek to follow my thoughts; you will never understand me, for all
your forefathers were buried in a common ditch, as dead things, not as men of individual character
and bold distinctive spirit. (He points to the portraits of his ancestors.) Look upon these
pictures! Love of country, of family, of the home hearth, feelings at war with all your ideas,
are written in every line of their firm brows--their spirit lives entire in me, their last
heir and representative. Tell me, O man without ancestors, where is your natal soil? You spread
your wandering tent each coming eve Upon the ruins of another's home, every morning roll it
up again that it may be unrolled anew at night to blight and spoil! Yon have not yet found
a home, a hearth, and you will never find one as long as a hundred men live to cry with me:
'Glory to our fathers!'

PANCRATIUS. Yes, glory to your fathers in heaven and upon earth; but it will repay us to look
at them a little more closely. (He points to one of the portraits.) This gentleman was a famous
Starost; he shot old women in the woods, and roasted the Jews alive: this one with the inscription,
'Chancellor,' and the great seal in his right hand, falsified and forged acts, burned archives,
stabbed knights, and sullied the inheritance with poison; through him came your villages, your
income, your power. That dark man played at adultery with the wife of his friend. This one,
with the golden fleece on his Spanish cloak, served in a foreign land, when his own country
was in danger.

This pale lady with the raven ringlets carried on an intrigue with a handsome page. That one
with the lustrous braids is reading a letter from her gallant; she smiles, as well she may,
for night approaches, and love is bold.

This timid beauty with the deep blue eyes and golden curls, clasping a Roman hound in her braceleted
arm, was the mistress of a king, and soothed his softer hours.

Such is the true history of your unbroken, ancient, and unsullied line! But I like this jolly
fellow in the green riding jacket; he drank and hunted with the nobles, and employed the peasants
to run down the tall deer with the hounds. Indeed, the ignorance, stupidity, and wretchedness
of the serf were the strength of the noble, and give convincing proof of his own intellect.

But the Day of Judgment is approaching: I promise you that none of your vaunted ancestors,
that nought of their fame shall be forgotten in the dark award.

THE MAN. You deceive yourself, son of the people! Neither you nor your brethren could have
preserved existence, had not our noble ancestors nourished you with their bread, and defended
you with their blood. In times of famine, they gave you grain, and when the plague swept over
you with its hot breath of death, they built hospitals to receive you, found nurses to take
care of you, and educated physicians to save you from the grave. When from a herd of unformed
brutes they had nurtured you into human beings, they built schools and churches for you, sharing
everything with you save the dangers of the battle field, for war they knew you were not formed
to bear. As the sharp lance of the pagan was wont to recoil, shattered and riven, from the
glittering armor of my fathers, so recoil your vain words as they strike the dazzling record
of their long-consecrated glory. They disturb not the repose of their sacred ashes. Like the
howlings of a mad dog, who froths, bites, and snaps as he runs, until he is driven out of the
pale of humanity, so fall your accusations, dying out in their own insanity.

But it is almost dawn, and time you should depart from the halls of my ancestors! Pass in safety
and in freedom from their home, my guest!

PANCRATIUS. Farewell then, until we meet again upon the ramparts of the Holy Trinity. And when
your powder and ball shall be utterly exhausted?

THE MAN. We will then approach within the length of our swords. Farewell!

PANCRATIUS. We are twin Eagles, but your nest is shattered by the lightning! (He takes up his
cloak and liberty cap.) In passing from your threshold, I leave the curse, due to decrepitude,
behind me. I devote you and your son to destruction!

THE MAN. Ho! Jacob!

     Enter Jacob.

Conduct this man in safety through my last post on the hill!

JACOB. So help me God the Lord!

     Exit Jacob with Pancratius.

DEATH IN LIFE.

  In some dull hour of doubt or pain,
  Who has not felt that life is slain--
  And while there yet remain

  Long years, perhaps, of joyless mirth,
  Ere earth shall claim its kindred earth,
  Such years were nothing worth

  But that some duty still demands
  The sweating brow, the weary hands?
  And so Existence stands

  With an appeal we cannot shun,
  To make complete what Life begun,
  With toil from sun to sun.

  And so we keep the sorry tryst,
  With all its fancied sweetness missed--
  Consenting to exist

  When Life has fled beyond recall,
  And left us to its heir in thrall,
  With chains that will not fall.

  Belated stars were waning fast
  As through an open gate I passed,
  And crossed a meadow vast--

  And, still descending, followed still
  The path that wound adown the hill
  And by the ruined mill--

  Till in its garden I espied
  The cottage by the river side
  Where dwelt my promised bride.

  Beneath the porch no lantern flared,
  No watch dog kept his faithful ward,
  The window blinds were barred.

  Entering with eager eye and ear,
  And ushered by the phantom Fear,
  I stood beside the bier

  Of one who, passing hence away,
  Left something more than lifeless clay,
  As twilight lingers after day,

  The pulseless heart, the pallid lips,
  The eyes just closed in death's eclipse,
  The fairy finger tips

  So lightly locked across the breast,
  Seemed to obey the sweet behest
  By angels whispered--Rest!

  That beauty had been mine alone,
  Those hands had fondly pressed my own,
  Those eyes in mine had shone.

  The open door was banged about,
  As wailing winds went in and out
  With sigh and groan and shout.

  And darkly ran the river cold,
  Whose swollen waters, as they rolled,
  A tale of sorrow told.

  I could not choose but seek that stream,
  Whose sympathetic moan did seem
  The music of a dream.

  O River, that unceasing lay
  Charms each fair tree along thy way,
  Until it falls thy prey!

  O endless moan within my heart,
  Thy constancy has made me part
  Of what thou wert and art!

  And while I stood upon the brink,
  And tried to think, but could not think,
  Nor sight with reason link--

  A form I had not seen before
  Came slowly down the dismal shore;
  A sombre robe she wore,

  And in her air and on her face
  There was a sterner kind of grace,
  Heightened by time and place--

  A sort of conscious power and pride,
  A soul to substance more allied--
  Than that of her who died.

  With scarce a semblance of design,
  Toward me her steps she did incline,
  And raised her eyes to mine

  So sweetly, so imploringly,
  I scarcely wished, and did not try,
  To put their pleading by,

  And, ere a movement I had made,
  Her hand upon my arm she laid,
  And whispered: I obeyed.

  While one into the darkness sped,
  I followed where the other led;
  Yet often turned my head,

  As one who fancies that he hears
  His own name ringing in his ears
  Shouted from far-off spheres.

  Oh! bliss misplaced is misery!
  I love the life I've lost, but, see!
  The life that's here loves me.

  And while I seem her willing slave,
  My heart is hid in weeds that wave
  Above a distant grave.

ÆNONE:

A TALE OF SLAVE LIFE IN ROME.

CHAPTER XIV.

In an hour from that time the banqueting hall of the palace was prepared for its guests. Silken
couches had been drawn up around the table. Upon it glittered a rich array of gold and silver.
Between the dishes stood flasks of rare wines. Upon the buffet near by were other wines cooling
in Apennine snow. Tall candelabras in worked and twisted bronze stood at the ends and sides
of the table, and stretched overhead their arms hung with lamps. From the walls were suspended
other lamps, lighting up the tapestries and frescoes. At one end of the hall, richly scented
spices burned upon a tripod. With a readiness and celerity for which the Vanno palace was famous,
a feast fit for the emperor had been improvised in a few minutes, and nothing was now wanting
except the guests.

These now began to drop in one by one. The poet Emilius--the comedian Bassus--the proconsul
Sardesus--others of lesser note; but not one who had not a claim to be present, by reason of
intimate acquaintance or else some peculiarly valuable trait of conviviality. In collecting
these, the armor bearer had made no mistake; and knowing his master's tastes and intimates,
he had made up the roll of guests as discreetly as though their names had been given him. One
he had met in the street--others he had found at their homes. None to whom he gave the invitation
was backward in accepting it upon the spot, for there were few places in Rome where equal festal
gratification could be obtained. To have been called to the house of Sergius Vanno and not
to have gone there, was to have lost a day to be forever regretted. None, therefore, who had
been spoken to, among that club of congenial spirits, was absent. Of those who did not come,
one was sick and two were at their country villas. These, however, were lesser lights, valuable
by themselves, perhaps, but of no account in comparison with others who had come; and therefore
their absence was scarcely noticed.

Sergius stood at the door receiving his guests as each arrived. He had arrayed himself in his
most festive costume, and had evidently resolved that whatever might happen on the morrow,
that night at least should be passed in forgetfulness and unbridled enjoyment. Even now his
face was flushed with the wine he had taken in anticipation, in the hope of giving an artificial
elation to his spirits. But it seemed as though for that time the wine had lost its accustomed
charm. Although at each greeting he strove to wreathe his face in smiles, yet it was but a
feeble mask, and could not hide the more natural appearances of care and gloom which rested
upon his features; and while his voice seemed to retain its old ring of joyous welcome, there
was an undertone of sad discordance. As the guests entered and exchanged greetings with their
host, each, after the first moment, looked askant at him, with the dim perception that, in
some way, he was not as he was wont to be; and so, in a little while, they sank, one by one,
into a troubled and apprehensive silence. He, too, upon his part, looked furtively at them,
wondering whether they had yet heard the thing that had befallen him. It was but a short time
ago, indeed, and yet in how few minutes might the unrestrained gossip of a slave have spread
the ill tidings! For the moment, Sergius recoiled from the difficult task of entertainment
which he had taken upon himself. Why, indeed, had he called these men around him? How could
he sit and pledge them in deep draughts, and all the time suspect that each one knew his secret,
and was laughing about it in his sleeve? And if they knew it not, so much the worse, for then
he must tell the tale himself. Was it not partly for this purpose that he had assembled them?
Far better to speak of it himself--to let them see how little he regarded the misfortune and
the scandal--to treat it as a brave jest--to give his own version of it--than to have the matter
leak out in the ordinary way, with all conceivable distortions and exaggerations. But how,
in fact, could he tell it? Was there one among them who would not, while openly commiserating
him, laugh at him in the heart? Did there not now sit before him the lieutenant Plautus, who,
only a month before, had met with a like disgrace, and about whom he had composed derisive
verses? Would not the lieutenant Plautus now rejoice to make retaliatory odes? Would it not
b e better, then, after all, to forbear any mention of the matter, and, letting its announcement
take the usual chance course, to devote this night, at least, to unbroken festivity? But what
if they already knew it?

Thus wandering in his mind from one debate to another, and ever, in a moment, coming back to
his original suspicion, he sat, essaying complimentary speeches and convivial jests, and moodily
gazing from face to face, in a vain attempt to read their secret thoughts. He was wrong in
his suspicions. Not one of them knew the reason of the burden upon his mind. All, however,
perceived that something had occurred to disturb him, and his moody spirit shed its influence
around, until the conversation once again flagged, and there was not one of the party who did
not wish himself elsewhere. The costliest viands and wines spread out before them were ineffective
to produce that festive gayety upon which they had calculated.

'By Parnassus!' exclaimed the poet Emilius, at length, pushing aside his plate of turbot, and
draining his goblet 'Are we to sit here, hour after hour, winking and blinking at each other
like owls over their mice? Was it merely to eat and drink that we have assembled? Hearken!
I will read that to you which will raise your spirits, to a certainty. To-morrow the games
and combats commence in the arena of the new amphitheatre. Well; and is it known to you that
I am appointed to read a dedicatory ode before the emperor and in honor of that occasion? I
will give you a pleasure, now. I will forestall your joy, and let you hear what I have written.
And be assured that this is no small compliment to your intelligence, since no eye hath yet
looked upon a single verse thereof.'

With that the poet dragged from his breast his silken bundle, and carefully began to unwind
the covering.

'You will observe,' he said, as he brought the precious parchment to light, and smoothed it
out upon the table before him, 'you will observe that I commence with an invocation to the
emperor, whom I call the most illustrious of all the Cæsars, and liken to Jove. I then congratulate
the spectators, not only upon the joy of living in his time, but also upon being there to bask
in the effulgence of--'

'A truce to such mummery!' cried Sergius, suddenly arousing from his spiritual stupor and bursting
into a shrill laugh. 'Do we care to listen to your miserable dactyls? Is it not a standing
jest through Rome that, for the past month, you have daily read your verses to one person after
another, with the same wretched pretence of exclusive favoritism? And do we not know that no
warrant has ever been given to you to recite a single line before the emperor, either in or
out of the arena? We are here to revel, not to listen to your stale aphorisms upon death and
immortality. Ho, there, more wine! Take off these viands, which already pall upon us! Bring
wine-more wine!'

The guests were not slow to respond to the altered mood of their host; for it was merely the
reflection of his sullen gravity that had eclipsed their own vivacity. The instant, therefore,
that he led the way, the hall began to resound with jest and laughter. The poet, with some
humiliation, which he endeavored to conceal beneath an affectation of wounded dignity, commenced
rolling up his manuscript, not before a splash of wine from a carelessly filled flagon had
soiled the fair-written characters. More flasks were placed upon the table by ready and obedient
hands--and from that moment the real entertainment of the evening commenced.

Faster than any of his guests, as though care could be the better drowned by frequent libations,
Sergius now filled and refilled his flagon; and though the repeated draughts may not have brought
forgetfulness, yet, what was the nearest thing, they produced reckless indifference. No longer
should the cloud which he had thus suddenly swept away from his brow be suffered to remain.
Was he not master in his own house? If woman deceives, was that a reason why man should mourn
and grow gray with melancholy? What though a random thought might at times intrude, of one
who, in the next room, with her head against the wall, lay in a half stupor, listening to the
ring of goblets and the loud laugh and jest? Had she not brought it all upon herself? He would
fill up again, and think no more about it! And still, obedient to his directing tone, the guests
followed him with more and more unbridled license, until the hall rang with merriment as it
had never rung before.

Then, of course, came the throwing of dice, which, at that time, were as essential a concomitant
of a roystering party as, in later centuries, cards became. Nor were these the least attraction
of the feasts of Sergius; for though the excellence of his viands and wines was proverbial,
the ease with which he could be despoiled at the gambling table was not less so. Already he
was known to have seriously crippled his heritage by continued reverses, springing from united
ill luck and want of skill; but it was as well understood that much still remained. And then,
as now, the morality of gambling was of a most questionable character--invited guests not thinking
it discreditable to unite in any combinations for the purpose of better pillaging their host.
This seemed now the general purpose; for, leaving each other in comparative freedom from attack,
they came forward one by one and pitted their purses, great and small, against Sergius, who
sat pouring down wine and shaking the dicebox, while he called each by name, and contended
against him. The usual result followed; for, whether owing to secret signs among the players,
or to superior skill, the current of gold flowed but one way, from the host to his guests.
For a while he bore the continued ill luck with undiminished gayety, deeming that in meeting
their united prowess he was doing a brave thing, and that, whatever befell him, he should remember
that in character of host, he must consent to suffer. But at length he began to realize that
his losses had been carried far enough. He had never suffered so severely in any one evening
before. Even his duty to them as their host did not demand that he should completely ruin himself,
and he began to suspect that he had half done so already. With a hoarse laugh he pushed the
dice away, and arose.

'Enough--quite enough for one night,' he exclaimed. 'I have no more gold, nor, if I had, could
I dare to continue, with this ill run against me. Perhaps after another campaign I may meet
you again, and take my revenge; which, if the Fates are just, must one day or another be allotted
me. But not now.'

He thought that he was firm in his refusal, but his guests had not yet done with him. It needed
but gentle violence to push him back again upon his seat, and to replace the dicebox in his hand.

'Art weary, or afraid to continue?' said the prætorian captain. 'Well, let there be one more
main between us, and then we will end it all. Listen! I have won this night two hundred sestertia.
What is the worth of that quarry of yours to the south of the Porta Triumphalis?'

'Three hundred sestertia--not less,' responded Sergius.

'Nay, as much as that?' rejoined the captain, carelessly throwing down his own dice. 'Then
it is useless to propose what I was about to. I had thought that as the quarry had been well
worked already, and was now overrun with fugitive slaves and Nazarenes, and the like, to ferret
out whom would require half a legion, I could offer to put the two hundred sestertia against
it, so that you might chance to win them back. But it is of little consequence.'

Sergius sat for the moment nervously drumming upon the table. He knew that the other was purposely
disparaging the property and trying to tempt him into an equal stake; and yet he suffered himself
to be tempted. The luck might this time be with him. It were worth while to try it, at least.
If he lost, it would be but one more buffet of fortune. And if he won, how easily would those
two hundred sestertia have been regained, and what a triumph over the one who had enticed him!
And therefore they threw--five times a piece; and after a moment of breathless excitement,
the play was decided in favor of the captain.

'The quarry is mine, therefore,' he said, endeavoring to assume a nonchalant air of indifference.
'Would you still win it back, Sergius? And the sesteria also? Well, there is that vineyard
of yours on the slope of Tivoli, which--'

'Stay!' exclaimed the proconsul Sardesus, who, of all the party had not as yet touched the
dicebox. 'Let this be enough. Will you plunder him entirely? Have you no regard for my rights
over him? Do you not know that to-morrow, at the amphitheatre, Sergius and I are to match gladiators
against each other for a heavy wager, and that I expect to win? How, then will I get this money,
if you now strip him of all that he owns?'

Probably the proconsul felt no fear about collecting what he might win, and spoke jestingly,
and with the sole intention of putting a stop to a system of pillage which seemed to him already
too flagrant and unscrupulous. But his words were too plainly spoken not to give offence at
any time, more particularly now that all present were heated with excitement; and the usual
consequence of disinterested interference ensued. The other guests in no measured language,
began to mutter their displeasure at the insinuations against themselves; while the host, for
whose benefit the interruption had been intended, resented it most strongly of all. He needed
no counsel, but was well able to take care of himself, he intimated. And he remembered that
he had entered into some sort of a wager about the result of a gladiatorial combat, and he
had supposed that no one would have doubted his ability to pay all that he might lose therein.
It was proper, at least, to wait until there had been some precedent of the kind proved against
him. No one, so far, had found him wanting. And the like.

'And yet,' he continued, as after a moment of reflection he began to realise the value of the
wager, and how inconvenient it would be to lose, and that he had not yet succeeded in making
any preparation for the contest, 'when I tell you that I have not yet found a gladiator to
my mind, you will not force this match upon me to-morrow? You will forbear that advantage,
and will consent to postpone our trial to another time?'

The proconsul shrugged his shoulders.

'Was it in the bond,' he said, 'that one should await the convenience of the other? Has there
not been time enough for each to procure his man? This wager was made between us mouths ago,
Sergius--before even you went into the East.'

'And it was while I was there,' exclaimed Sergius eagerly, 'that I found my man--a Rhodian,
with the forehead, neck, and sinews of a bull. He could have hugged a bull to death almost.
Having him, I felt safe, for who could you obtain to stand up against him? But in an evil hour,
not over a month ago, this play actor here--this Bassus--by a stupid trick gained him from
me. What, then, have I been able to do for myself since? I have sought far and near to replace
him, but without success; and had made up my mind, if you would not postpone the trial, to
pay up the forfeit for not appearing, and think no more about it. But by the gods! I will,
even at this late hour, make one more attempt. Harkee, Bassus! Whenever I have asked you about
this Rhodian, you have said that you have sold him; and, for some low reason, you have refused
to tell who owns him now. Tell me, now, to whom you sold him, so that I can purchase him at
once! Tell me, I say; or there will be blood between us!'

'What can he say,' interrupted the proconsul, 'but that he sold his Rhodian to me, the day
thereafter? You do well to praise him, Sergius. Never have I seen such a creature of brawn
and muscle. And with the training I have given him, who, indeed, could overcome him? You will
see him to-morrow, in the arena. You will see how he will crush in the ribs of your gladiator,
like an egg shell.'

Sergius gave vent to a groan of mingled rage and despair.

'And you will not postpone this trial?' he said. 'Will you, then, take up with an offer to
play off that Rhodian against ten of my slaves? No? Against twenty, then? What else will tempt
you? Ah, you may think that I have but little to offer to play against you, but it is not so.
I have no gold left, and my last quarry is gone. But I have my vineyards and slaves in plenty.
What say you, therefore?'

'Tush! Beseech him not!' interrupted Emilius, to whom the mention of vineyards and slaves gave
intimation of further spoils. 'Do you not see that he shakes his head? And do you not know
his obstinacy? You could not move him now were you to pay him in full the amount of the forfeit.
It is not the gold that he longer cares for, but the chance to distinguish himself by the exhibition
of the slave of greatest strength and prowess. So let that matter go for settled. Rather strive,
in some other manner, to win the money with which to pay your forfeit. This, with good luck,
you may do--a little here and a little there--who knows? Perhaps even I can help you. Have
I not won fifty sestertia from you? I will now wager it back against a slave.'

'Against any slave?'

'By Bacchus, no! I have enough of ordinary captives to suit me, and care but little for any
accession to the rabble of them. But you have one whom I covet--a Greek of fair appearance
and pleasing manners--fit not for the camp or the quarries, but of some value as a page or
cupbearer. It was but lately that I saw him, writing at your lady's dictation, and I wished
for him at once. Shall we play for him?'

'No! a thousand times, no!' exclaimed Sergius, striking the table so heavily with his open
hand that the dice danced and the flagons shook. 'Were you to offer me thrice his value--to
pay off my forfeit to Sardesus to the last sestertium--to gain me back my quarry and my vineyards--all
that I have lost--I would not give up that slave. My purpose is sweeter to me than all the
gold you could offer, and I will not be cheated out of it. That slave dies to-morrow in the
amphitheatre--between the lion's jaws!'

'Dies? In the arena?' was the astonished exclamation.

'Is there aught wonderful in that?' Sergius fiercely cried. 'Have you never before known such
a thing as a master giving up his slave for the public amusement? And let no man ask me why
I do it. It may be that I wish revenge, hating him too much to let him live. It may be that
I seek to be a benefactor like others, and furnish entertainment to the populace at my own
expense. It is sufficient that I choose it. Will not any other slave answer, Emilius?'

'Nay, no other will do,' remarked the poet, throwing himself carelessly back, with the air
of one dismissing a fruitless subject from his mind. 'This was the only one whom I coveted.
For any other I would not care to shake the dicebox three times, though I might feel sure to win.'

'Will you offer the same to me, Sergius?' eagerly cried the comedian. 'I also have won heavily
from you. Will you play any other slave than this page against fifty sestertia?'

For his only answer, Sergius seized the dice, and began impatiently to rattle them. The eyes
of Bassus sparkled with anticipated victory.

'You hear?' he cried, to all around him. 'Against my fifty sestertia he will stake any of his
slaves excepting this Greek page?'

'They all hear the terms,' retorted Sergius. 'Now throw!'

'Whether male or female?' continued Bassus, still looking around to see that all understood.

'Are they fools? Can they not hear? Will you throw or not?' shouted Sergius.

In a wild delirium of excitement, the comedian began the game, and in a few minutes it was
concluded. Then he leaped from his seat, crying out:

'I have won! And there can be no dispute now! You all heard that he gave the choice of his
slaves, whether male or female?'

'Fool!' sneered Sergius, throwing himself back. 'What dispute can there be? Do you think that
I would deny my word? And do you suppose I did not know your aims, cunningly as you may think
you veiled them? Would I have given up Leta to you, if she had been of any further value to
myself? By the gods! had you waited a while, I do not know but what I would have made her a
present to you; not however, to oblige you, but to punish her!'

The comedian listened in chopfallen amazement. Already it seemed to him that his prize had
lost half its value.

'Be at rest, though,' Sergius continued, in a contemptuous tone. 'I have merely tired of her,
that is all. Her eyes are as bright and her voice as silvery as ever. She may not ever come
to love you much, but she will have the wit to pretend that she does; and if she makes you
believe her--as you doubtless will--it will be all the same thing to you. Who knows, too, with
what zeal she may worm herself into your affection, under the guidance of her ambition? For,
that she has ambition, you will soon discover. By Bacchus! since you have no wife or household
to fetter your fancies, it would not surprise me were you to succumb to her wiles, and to make
of her your wife. You may recline there and smile with incredulity; but such things have been
done before this, and by men who would not condescend to look upon one in your poor station.
Yes, I will wager that, in the end, you will make of her your wife. Well, it would be no harm
to you. She will then deceive you, of course; but what of that? Have not better men submitted
to that inevitable lot? Yes, she will deceive you; and then will smile upon you, and you will
believe her word, and be again deceived. But you will have only yourself to blame for it. I
have warned you in advance.'

CHAPTER XV.

As the shouts of laughter elicited by the host's remark rang through the hall, drowning the
muttered response of the comedian, Leta glided softly and rapidly from behind the screen of
tapestry which veiled the open doorway. There, crouching out of sight, she had remained concealed
for the last hour--watching the revellers through a crevice in the needlework, and vainly hoping,
either in the words or face of Sergius, to detect some tone or expression indicative of regretful
thought or recollection of herself. When at last her name had been mentioned, for a moment
she had eagerly held her breath, lest she might lose one syllable from which an augury of her
fate could be drawn. Then, repressing, with a violent effort, the cry of despair which rose
to her lips, upon hearing herself thus coolly and disdainfully surrendered as the stake of
a game of dice, and with less apparent regret than would have been felt for the loss of a single
gold piece, she drew the folds of her dress closely about her and passed out.

Out through the antechamber--down the stairway--and into the central court; no other purpose
guiding her footsteps than that of finding some place where she could reflect, without disturbance,
upon the fate before her. In that heated hall she must have died; but it might be that in the
cool, open air, she could conquer the delirium which threatened to overwhelm her, and could
thus regain her self-control. If only for five minutes, it might be well. With her quick energy
and power of decision, even five minutes of cool, deliberate counsel with herself might suffice
to shape and direct her whole future life.

Hardly realizing how she had come there, she found herself sitting upon the coping of the courtyard
fountain. The night was dark, for thick clouds shut out the gleam of moon and stars. No one
could see her, nor was it an hour when any one was likely to be near. From one end to the other
the court was deserted, except by herself. No light, other than the faint glow from the windows
of the banquet hall upon the story above her. No sound beyond the sullen splash of the water
falling into the marble basin of the fountain. There was now but little to interfere with deliberate
reflection.

What demon had possessed the Fates that they should have brought this lot upon her? It could
not be the destiny which had been marked out for her from the first. That had been a different
one, she was sure. Her instinct had whispered peace and success to her. Such were the blessings
which should have been unravelled for her from off the twirling spindle; but some malignant
spirit must have substituted another person's deserved condemnation in place of her more kindly
lot.

That she had failed in attaining the grand end of her desires was not, of itself, the utmost
of her misfortune. She had aimed high, because it was as easy to do that as to accept a lower
object of ambition. She had taken her course, believing that all things are possible to the
energetic and daring, but, at the same time, fully realizing the chances of failure. But to
fail had simply seemed to her to remain where she was, instead of ascending higher--to miss
becoming the wife of the imperator, but to continue, as before, the main guide and direction
of his thoughts, impulses, and affections.

And now, without previous token or warning, had come upon her the terrible realization that
she had not only gained nothing, but had lost all, and that the fatal chance which had fettered
her schemes, had also led to her further degradation. Thrown aside like a broken toy-with a
jeering confession that she had wearied her possessor--with a cool, heartless criticism upon
her character, and with cruel prophecies about her future--gambled for with one whose sight
filled her with abhorrence--and, when won, made over to him as a bone is tossed to a dog--what
more bitterness could be heaped upon her?

But there was now no use in mourning about the past. What had been done could not be altered.
Nor could she disguise from herself the impossibility of ever regaining her former position
and influence. Those had passed away forever. She must now look to the future alone, and endeavor
so to shape its course as to afford herself some relief from its terrors. Possibly there might
yet be found a way of escape.

Should she try to fly? That, she knew, could not be done--at least, alone. The world was wide,
but the arm of the imperial police was long; and though she might, for a little while, wander
purposelessly hither and thither, yet before many hours the well-directed efforts of a pursuer
would be sure to arrest her. She could die--for in every place death is within reach of the
resolute; but she did not wish to die. For one instant, indeed, she thought of the Tiber, and
the peace which might be found beneath its flow--but only for an instant. And she almost thanked
the gods in her heart that it had not yet gone so far with her as that.

Burying her face in her hands, she sat for a moment, endeavoring to abstract her thoughts from
all outward objects, so as the more readily to determine what course to adopt. But for a while
it seemed as though it was impossible for her to fix her mind aright. Each instant some intruding
trifle interfered to distract her attention from the only great object which now should claim
it. A long-forgotten incident of the past would come into her mind--or perhaps some queer conceit
which at the time had caused laughter. She did not laugh now, but none the less would she find
herself revolving the merits of the speech or action. Then, the soft fall of the water into
the fountain basin annoyed her, and it occurred to her that it might be this--which prevented
undivided reflection. Stooping over, therefore, and feeling along the edge of the basin, she
found the vent of the pipes, and stopped the flow. At once the light stream began to diminish
and die away, until in a moment the water was at rest, except for the few laggard drops which
one by one rolled off the polished shoulders of the bronze figures. These gradually all trickled
down, and then it seemed as though at last there must be silence. But the murmur of the evening
breeze among the trees intervened; and, far more exasperating than all, she could now hear
the bursts of merriment which rang out from the banqueting room overhead. Therefore, once more
putting her hand into the basin, she turned on the flow, and the gentle stream again sprang
from the outstretched cup and fell down, deadening all lesser sounds.

Then Leta looked up at the sky, overspread with its thick pall of clouds, and wondered vacantly
whether there would be rain upon the morrow, and if so, whether the games appointed for the
new amphitheatre would take place. But she recovered herself with a start, and again buried
her face in her hands. What were games and combats of that kind to her? She was to enter upon
a different kind of struggle. She must reflect--reflect!--and when she had reflected, must act!

For ten minutes she thus remained; and now, indeed, seemed to have gained the required concentration
of thought. No outward sound disturbed her. Once a Nubian slave, who had heard the stoppage
of the fountain's flow, emerged from beneath an archway, as though to examine into the difficulty.
Finding that the water was still playing as usual, he imagined that he must have been mistaken,
gave utterance to an oath in condemnation of his own stupidity, slowly walked around the basin,
looked inquiringly at Leta, and, for the moment, made as though he would have accosted her--and
then, changing his mind, withdrew and walked back silently into the house. Still she did not move.

At length, however, she raised her head and stood upright. Her eyes now shone with deep intensity
of purpose, and her lips were firmly set. Something akin to a smile flickered around the corners
of her mouth, betraying not pleasure, but satisfaction. She had evidently reflected to some
purpose, and now the trial for action had arrived.

'Strange that I should not have thought of it before,' she murmured to herself. Then stepping
under the archway which led from the courtyard into the palace, she reached up against the
wall and took down two keys which hung there. Holding them tightly, so that they might not
clink together, she glided along, past the fountain--through the clump of plane trees--keeping
as much as possible in the deeper shadows of arch and shrubbery--and so on along the whole
length of the court, until she stood by the range of lower erections which bounded its farther
extremity. Then, fitting one of the keys into an iron door, she softly unlocked it.

Entering, she stood within a low stone cell. It was the prison house of the palace, used for
the reception of new slaves, and for the punishment of such others as gave offence. It was
a long, narrow apartment, paved with stone and lighted by a single grated aperture set high
in the wall upon the courtyard side. The place was of sufficient dimensions to hold fifty or
sixty persons, but, in the present case, there was but one tenant--Cleotos---Not even a guard
was with him, for the strength of the walls and the locks were considered amply sufficient
to prevent escape.

Cleotos was sitting upon a stone bench, resting his head upon his right hand. At the opening
of the door he looked up. He could not see who it was that entered, but the light tread and
the faint rustle of a waving dress sufficiently indicated the sex. If it had been daylight,
a flush might have been seen upon his face, for the thought flashed upon his mind that it might
be Ænone herself coming to his assistance. But the first word undeceived him; and he let his
head once more fall between the palms of his hands.

'Cleotos,' whispered Leta, 'it is I. I have come to set you free.'

'It is right,' he said, moodily. 'All this I owe to you alone. It is fit that you should try
to undo your work.'

'Could I foresee that it would come to this?' she responded, attempting justification. 'How
was I to know that my trivial transgression would have ended so sorrowfully for you? But all
that is easily mended. You have money, and a token which will identify you to the proper parties.
There is yet time to reach Ostia before that ship can sail.'

'How knew you that I had gold--or this signet ring; or that there was a ship to sail from Ostia?'
he exclaimed with sudden fierceness. 'You, then, had been listening at the door! And having
listened, you must have known with what innocence we spoke together! And yet, seeing all this,
you called him to the spot and left him to let his eyes be deceived and his heart filled with
bitter jealousy, and have played upon his passion by wicked misrepresentation, until you have
succeeded in bringing ruin upon all about you! I see it all now, as clearly as though it were
written upon a parchment rolled out before me! To think that the gods have beheld you doing
this thing, and yet have not stricken you dead!'

'I have sinned,' she murmured, seizing his hand and bending over, so that a ready tear rolled
down upon it. He felt it fall, but moved not. Only a few days before, her tears would have
moved him; but now his heart was hardened against her. He had found out that her nature was
cruel and not easily moral to repentance, and that, if emotion was ever suffered to overcome
her, it was tolerated solely for some crafty design. The falling tear, therefore, simply bade
him be upon his guard against deceit, lest once again she might succeed in weaving her wiles
about him. Or, if she really wept with repentance, he knew that it was not repentance for the
sin itself, but rather for some baffled purpose.

'Go on,' he simply said.

'I have sinned,' she repeated, still clinging to his hands. 'But, O Cleotos! when I offer to
undo my work and set you free, you will surely forgive me?'

'Yes, it is right that you should repair the mischief you have caused,' he repeated; 'and I
will avail myself of it. To-night, since you offer to set me free, and claim that you have
the power to do so--to-night for Ostia; and then, then away forever from this ruthless land!
But stay! What of our mistress? I will not go hence until I know that she is safe and well.'

'She is well,' responded Leta, fearful lest the truth might throw a new obstacle before her
plans. 'And all is again right between her lord and herself, for I have assured him of her
innocence.'

'Then, since this is so, there is no motive for me to tarry,' he said. He believed her, and
was satisfied; not that he esteemed her worthy of belief, but because it did not seem to him
possible that such a matter as a grateful kiss upon a protecting hand could require much explanation.
'I would like well once more to see her and bid her farewell, and utter my thanks for all her
kindness; but to what purpose? I have done that already, and could do and say no more than
I have already done and said. There remains, therefore, nothing more than to fulfil her commands,
and return to my native home. But tell her, Leta, that my last thought was for her, and that
her memory will ever live in my heart.'

'I cannot tell her this,' slowly murmured Leta, 'for I shall not see her again. I--I go with you.'

Cleotos listened for a moment in perplexed wonderment, and then, for his sole answer, dropped
her hand and turned away. She understood him as well as though he had spoken the words of refusal.

'You will not take me with you, then; is it not so?' she said. 'Some nice point of pride, or
some feeling of fancied wrong, or craving for revenge, or, perhaps, love for another person,
tells you now to separate yourself from me! And yet you loved me once. This, then, is man's
promised faith!'

'You dare to talk to me of faith and broken vows!' he exclaimed, after a moment of speechless
amazement at her hardiness in advancing such a plea. 'You, who for weeks have treated me with
scorn and indifference--who have plotted against me, until my life itself has been brought
into danger--who, apart from all that, cast me off when first we met in Rome, telling me then
that I was and could be nothing to you, yes, even that our association from the first had been
a mistake and a wrong! Yes, Leta, there was a time when I truly loved you, as man had never
then done, or since, or ever will again; but impute not to me the blame that I cannot do so now.'

'I was to blame,' she said; and it seemed that this night must be a night of confession for
her, in so few things could she justify herself by denial or argument. 'I acknowledge my fault,
and how my heart has been drawn from you by some delusion, as powerful and resistless as though
the result of magic. But when I confess it freely, and tell you how I now see my duty and my
heart more clearly, as though a veil of after all, I find no forgiveness in your heart, said
I not truly that man's faith cannot be trusted? Am I not the same Leta as of old?'

'The same as of old?' he exclaimed. 'Can you look earnestly and truthfully into your soul,
and yet avow that you are the pure-hearted girl who roamed hand in hand with me only a year
ago, in our native isle, content to have no ambition except that of living a humble life with
me? And now, with your simple tastes and desires swept away--with your soul covered with love
of material pleasures as with a lava crust--wrapt up in longing for Rome's most sinful, artificial
excesses--having, for gold or position or power or ambition, or what not, so long as it was
not for love, given yourself up a willing victim to a heartless master--do you dare, after
this, to talk to me of love, and call yourself the same?'

'And are you one of those who believe that there can be no forgiveness for repentant woman?'

'Of forgiveness, all that can be desired; but of forgetfulness, none. There is one thing that
no man can forget; and were I to repulse the admonitions of my judgment, and strive to pass
that thing by, who would sooner scorn me than yourself? Let all this end. Know that I love
you not, and could never love you again. Your scorn, indifference, and deceit have long ago
crushed from my heart all the love it once held. Know further, that if I did still love you,
my pride would condemn the feeling, and I would never rest until I had destroyed it, even were
it necessary to destroy myself rather than to yield.'

'These are brave words, indeed!' she exclaimed, taunted by his rebuke into a departure from
her assumption of affection. 'But they better suit the freeman upon his own mountain side than
the slave in his cell. Samos is still afar off. The road from here to Ostia has not yet been
traversed by you in safety. Even this door between you and the open street has not been thrown
back. And yet you dare to taunt me, knowing that I hold in my hand the key, and, by withdrawing
it, can take away all hope from you. Do you realize what will be your fate if you remain here--how
that on the morrow the lions and leopards of the amphitheatre will quarrel over your scattered
limbs?'

'Is this a threat?' he cried. 'Is it to tell me that if I do not give my love where my honor
tells me it should not be given, I must surely die! So, then, let it be. I accept the doom.
One year ago, I would have cheerfully fought in the arena for your faintest smile. Now I would
rather die there than have your sullied love forced upon me.'

Without another word he sat down again upon the stone bench. Even in that darkness she could
note how resolute was his expression, how firm and unyielding his attitude. She had roused
his nature, as she had never seen it before. She had not believed that a spirit which she had
been accustomed to look upon as so much inferior in strength to her own, could show such unflinching
determination; and for the moment she stood admiring him, and wondering whether, if he had
always acted like that, he might not have bound her soul to his own and kept her to himself
through all temptation and trial. Then, taking the other key, she unlocked the door in the
rear wall of the cell, and threw it open. The narrow street behind the court was before him,
and he was free to go.

'I meant it not for a threat,' she said. 'However low I may sink, I have not yet reached the
pass of wishing to purchase or beg for affection. Why I spoke thus, I know not. It may be that
I thought some gratitude might be due me for rescuing you. But I cannot tell what I, thought.
Or it might have been that words were necessary for me, and that I used the first that came.
But let that pass. Know only that your safety lies before you, and that it is in your power
to grasp it. And now, farewell. You leave me drifting upon a downward course, Cleotos. Sometimes,
perhaps, when another person is at your side, making your life far happier than I could have
made it, you will think kindly of me.'

'I think kindly of you now, Leta,' he said. 'Whatever love I can give, apart from the love
which I once asked you to accept, is yours. In everything that brotherly affection can bestow,
there will be no limit to my care and interest for you. Nay, more, you shall now go away from
hence with me; and though I cannot promise more than a brother's love, yet with that for your
guide and protection, you can reach your native home in peace and security, and there work
out whatever repentance you may have here begun.'

'And when we are there, and those who have known us begin to ask why, when Cleotos has brought
Leta back in safety, he regards her only as a sister and a friend, and otherwise remains sternly
apart from her, what answer can be given which will not raise suspicion and scorn, and make
my life a burden to me? No, Cleotos, it cannot be. Cruel as my lot may be here, I have only
myself to answer for it, and it is easier to hide myself from notice in this whirl of sin and
passion than if at home again. And whatever may henceforth happen to me, the Fates are surely
most to blame. How can one avoid his destiny?'

'The Fates do not carve out our destiny,' he said. 'They simply carry into relentless effect
the judgments which our own passions and weaknesses pronounced upon ourselves. O Leta! have
you considered what you are resolved upon encountering? Do you not know that some day this
master of yours will tire of you, and fling you to some friend of his--a soldier, actor, or
what not--that as the years run on and your beauty fades, you will fall lower and lower? Have
not thousands like yourself thus gone on, until at last, becoming old and worthless, they are
left to die alone upon some island in the Tiber? Pray that you may die a better death than that!'

'It is a sad picture,' she answered. 'It is not merely possible, but also probable. I acknowledge
it all. And yet, if I saw it all unrolled before me as my certain doom, I do not know that
I would try to shun it. Already the glitter of this world has changed my soul from what it
was, and I am now too feeble of purpose to spend long years in retrieving the errors of the
past. There came into my heart a thought--a selfish thought--that you might forget what has
gone before; and then it seemed that I might succeed in winning back my peace, and so shun
the fate which lies before me. But you cannot forget. I blame you not: you are right. You have
never spoken more truly than when you said that I would have despised you if you had yielded.
Therefore, that hope is gone; and now I must submit to the destiny which is coming upon me.'

'But, Leta, only strive to think that--'

'Nay, what is the use? Rather let me throw all regrets away, and strive not to think at all.
Why not yield with a pleasant grace to the current, when we know that, in the end, struggle
as we may, it will surely sweep us under?'

'Leta--dear Leta--'

'Not a word, dear Cleotos; it must not be. From this hour I banish all human affections from
my heart, as I banish all hope. Could you remain here, you would see how relentless and fierce
my nature will grow. Plots and schemes shall now be my amusement; for if I must be destroyed,
others shall fall with me. This must be the last tender impulse of my life. I know not why
it is, but I could now really weep. Cleotos, forgive me! I came hither, loving you not, but
hoping to beguile you into receiving me again. I have failed, and I ought to hate you for it;
and yet I almost love you instead. It is strange, is it not?

'But, Leta--'

'How my heart now feels soft and tender with our recollections of other days! Do you remember,
Cleotos, how once, when children, we went together and stole the grapes from Eminides's vine?
And how, when he would have beaten you, I stood before you, and prevented him? Who would then
have thought that, in a few years, we should be here in Rome--slaves, and parting forever?
We shall never again together see Eminides's vineyard, shall we?'

'O Leta--my sister--'

'There, there; speak not, but go at once, for some one comes near. Tarry no longer. If at home
they ask after me, tell them I am dead. Farewell, dear Cleotos. Kiss me good-by. Do not grudge
me that, at least. And may the gods bless you!'

He would still have spoken, would have claimed a minute to plead with her and try to induce
her to leave the path she was pursuing, and go with him. But at that instant the voice of some
one approaching sounded louder, and the tones of Sergias could be distinguished as he tried
to troll forth the catch of a drinking melody. There was no time to lose. With a farewell pressure
of her arm about Cleotos's neck, Leta pushed him through the aperture into the dark back street;
and then, leaving the keys in the locks, turned back into the garden, and fled toward the house.

CREATION.

The primary characteristics of creation are aggregation, producing all existing forms; and
dissolution, in which the parts suffer disintegration, their varied elements entering into
new combinations. The active powers producing such normal condition of matter, which is ceaseless
motion, are comprehended in attraction for aggregation, and repulsion for dissolution, alternately.
This power of combing atoms and dissolving their connection is electric, which is only possessed
by that element, in its dual character of attraction and repulsion; and thus we may reasonably
assume that electricity is the material wherewith creative energy manifests its power in the
varied combinations, dissolutions, and reconstructions which comprise all animate and inanimate
existences. This same cosmical power, electricity, holds all worlds in their normal relations,
and is the source of light and heat, as well as the connecting link, through our electric nerve
cords, by which our minds alone commune with the outer world, in direct contact with our bodily
senses, and hence becomes the medium of all our knowledge.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRICITY AS THE SOURCE OF LIGHT, HEAT, GRAVITATION, AND THE ORIGIN op ALL GLOBES, NEBULÆ,
AND COMETIC MATTER.

If space were wholly devoid of matter, all globes, or other masses of matter, would be dissipated
into it, or à priori could not have been formed from it. The material interchange, passing
through space, between globes, in all stages of formation, such as light, heat, and gravitation,
could not be conducted through a vacuum, as their very presence would be destructive of vacuity.
Materiality would be dissipated or absorbed in an attempted passage through vacuity; therefore,
as we know that light, heat, and gravitation are, necessarily, material, space is but diffused
materiality, at its minimum of etheriality. Globes moving in their orbits and on their axes
must thus meet with resistance: this, together with the internal motion of their contained
elements, necessarily excites the constant production of electricity, in its dual character
of attraction and repulsion, according to its well-known laws; and this double character, alone
possessed by electricity, when concentrated produces material affinity, with reciprocal attraction
and repulsion, in all its atoms, thus forever preventing entire solidity or entire separation
of its parts. Such condensation of matter by electric action, is the origin of heat and the
variety produced by incandescence, which, therefore, accounts for the formation of globes from
the materials in space, and their sustentation in orbit.

As motion is the normal condition of matter, and is the producer of electricity, therefore
electric actions, concentrated in space, necessarily gathers cometic and nebulous matter from
space, the materials, through incandescence, for future globes, with orbits contracting in
proportion to condensation, its maximum of attraction. As material space is boundless, so the
creation of globes is endless therein, through electric action, by producing gradual centres
of material condensation, the mere whirlpool specks in infinite space.

Revolving bodies, gaseous, fluid, or solid, thus impress or charge the centres of their motion,
by superinduced attraction, with electricity, as their Leyden jars. So, too, the central body,
or primary of a system, so overcharged with electricity by its revolving secondaries, becomes
positively electrified or repellant to all such revolving bodies; and thus the producers and
accumulator are mutually attractive and repellant of each other.

The planets, by their lightning speed in orbits and on their axes, being producers, and the
sun the recipient or accumulator of electricity; the latter, as the centre of our revolving
system, is the Leyden jar, and thus becomes the overcharged positive source and dispenser of
electric light and heat to the surrounding planets.

The planets, as producers, are always negatively electric, tending toward the accumulator,
the sun; while the latter, as the accumulator, being overcharged, is positively electric, and
repels. The sun being the greater body, the planets' negative electric attraction for it must
always yield to the greater mass and tend toward the sun; while that great body, overcharged
with accumulated positive electricity, is fully capable of repelling such tendency of the lesser
revolving planets toward it. Attraction or gravitation with the planets, and repulsion (instead
of centrifugal force) with the sun, forever and inexhaustibly retain the various bodies, of
each system, in their respective orbits. As motion is the normal condition of matter, eternally
producing electric action, and when centralized evolving light and heat; so light and heat
are as inexhaustibly eternal as motion, and may thus be demonstrated as electric. The same
principle of action applies to all individual globes of each separate system, conjointly; and
collectively, the different systems mutually attract and repel each other, proportionate to
mass and the weakened forces of distance, thus preserving a cosmical harmony throughout creation,
forever forbidding collision or destruction of individual globes.

This theory will be found to correspond with the well-known laws of positive and negative electric
action; as well as illustrative of the influence of electric light on vegetable production--the
only artificially produced light, capable of imparting a healthy growth, and color--which,
I think, clearly proves it to be of the same character as solar light. It is also corroborative
of much that is inexplicable, except in the identity of electricity with solar effulgence,
as the source of light, heat, and gravitation, as well as substituting repulsion for centrifugal
force, and must forever disprove the theory of solar light being the result of mere metallic
incandescence, or any other equally exhausting combustion. The latter theory, with such supposed
expedients in nature, to carry out the mighty design of creation, belittles the subject by
its transitoriness, and is, therefore, unworthy the conception of modern generations.

PHENOMENA OF HAZE, FOGS, AND CLOUDS.

The predominant haze, which generally envelops the landscape and reddens the sun and moon during
long droughts, is usually ascribed to smoke from burning woods and forests, pervading the air.
I have observed a similar prevalent haze, connected with other extensive droughts than the
one from which the country is now (August) suffering, and have invariably heard the same vague
and inadequate cause assigned. Observation proves conclusively, that the assigned is not the
true general cause (although it has its purely local effect), as with winds, for days together,
in opposite quarters from local fires on mountain or plain, such widespread districts remain
enveloped in haze, although hundreds of miles distant. Neither over such districts was there
any odor as from smoke pervading the atmosphere (except temporarily from some neighboring chimneys,
which the then heavy air kept near the earth), nor felt by the eyes, which very perceptibly
smart when exposed to smoke. It is impossible, with varying winds, that mere local fires should
spread smoke so uniformly as to comprise most of the area of the drought, which on this occasion
extended from our great western lakes to the Atlantic seacoast; and anomalously, too, that
it should have continued so long after a rain had extinguished those fires.

I should assign a very different cause for this phenomenon. Rain drops are negatively electric,
while suspended moisture, such as fog, displays itself in the form of vesicles or globules,
distended by the presence and prevalence of positive electricity, which refracts the rays of
light from so many myriad surfaces, that all objects are thus, necessarily, obscured to the
eye. During droughts, when haze prevails, positive electricity in the air becomes in excess,
which is heating, and therefore serves still more to subdivide, as well as to expand or distend
the floating moisture in the atmosphere (of which it is never entirely deprived) into infinitesimal
vesicles, or globules, like minute soap bubbles, and thus from such an infinite number of refracting
surfaces is produced the haze, as well as the obscuration of the landscape and the reddened
disks of the sun and moon, by the absorption of their heat or red rays, so characteristic of
great droughts. This same infinitesimal vesicular condition of suspended moisture, is also
the sufficient cause of there being no deposition of dew on such occasions, except where a
local change of electric condition cools the air, thus temporarily clearing the atmosphere,
and permitting a local deposition of the previously suspended moisture, in the form of dew.

All fogs are due to this same cause, as well as that which, in extreme wintry cold, overhangs
the open water, as it yields its comparative heat to the air. The formation and suspension
of clouds, in all their varied characteristics, have the same origin. That highly attenuated
haze which invests the distant landscape, particularly mountains, with its magical purple hue,
is due to the same, but still more ethereal interposition of infinitesimal globules of suspended
moisture. In corroboration of this being the true explanation of the phenomena of haze, fogs,
etc., is the fact, that as soon as clouds prevail, denoting an electric change in the atmosphere,
all haze immediately disappears, or becomes embraced in the larger vesicles or globules, forming
clouds.

FLY LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SOLDIER.

PART II.--CHEVRONS.

She sewed them on upside down. Please to remember that this was in May, 1861 (or was it 1851?
it seems a long time ago), when a young lady of the most finished education, polished to the
uttermost nine, could not reasonably be expected to know what a sergeant-major was, much less
the particular cut and fashion of his badge of rank. I told her, exultingly, that I was appointed
sergeant-major of our battalion. 'What's that?' she inquired, simply enough. I explained. The
dignity and importance of the office was scarcely diminished in her mind by my explanation;
and, indeed, I thought it the grandest in the army. Who would be a commissioned officer, when
he could wear our gorgeous gray uniform, trimmed with red, the sleeves wellnigh hidden behind
three broad red stripes in the shape of a V, joined at the top by as many broad red arcs, all
beautifully set off by the lithe and active figure of Sergeant-Major William Jenkins? As for
Mary, who protested that she never could learn the difference between all these grades, or
make out the reason for them, she was for her part convinced that not even the colonel himself,
certainly not that fat Major Heavysterne, could be grander, or handsomer, or more important
than her William. So I forgave her for sewing on my chevrons upside down, although it was at
the time an infliction grievous to be born, inasmuch as the fussy little quartermaster-sergeant
was thereby enabled to get a day's start of in the admiration and envy of our old company.
How they envied us, to be sure! But I had one consolation: Oates' were all straight; mine were
arched. And she sewed mine on. His were done by Cutts & Dunn's bandy-legged foreman.

There never was such a uniform as ours. Not even the 'Seventh' itself--incomparable in the
eyes of the three-months'--could vie in grand and soldierly simplicity, we thought, with the
gray and red of the 9th Battalion, District of Columbia Volunteers. Gray cap, with a red band
round it, letters A S, for 'American Sharpshooters' (Smallweed used to say he never saw it
spelt in that way before, and to ask anxiously for the other S), gray single-breasted frock
coat, with nine gilt buttons, and red facings on the collar and cuffs. Gray pantaloons, with
a broad red stripe down the outer seam. The drummers sported the most gorgeous red stomachs
ever seen, between two rows of twenty little bullet buttons. The color rendered us liable to
be mistaken for the rebels, it is true; but this source of anxiety to the more nervous among
us was happily prevented from leading to any unfavorable results by the fatherly care displayed
by poor old General Balkinsop, under whose protection, we were sent into the field, in always
keeping at least a day's march from the enemy!

When we non-commissioned staff officers were first promoted, we felt badly about leaving our
companies; wanted to drill with them still, and so on. But this soon wore off under the pressure
of new duties. For my part, I soon found that the adjutant, Lieutenant Harch, regarded it as
quite a natural arrangement that the sergeant-major should attend to the office duties, while
the adjutant occupied himself exclusively with what he was pleased to style the military part
of the business; meaning thereby, guard mounting every morning and Sunday morning, inspection
once a week, making an average of, say, twenty minutes work per diem for the adjutant, and
leaving the poor sergeant-major enough to occupy and worry him for ten or eleven hours. 'Sergeant-major,
publish these orders,' Lieutenant Harch would say, in tones of authority exceeding in peremptory
curtness anything I have ever heard since from the commander of a grand army; and then, scraping
a match--my match--upon the wall, he would begin attending to his 'military duties' by lighting
a cigar--my cigar--and strolling up the avenue, on exhibition, preparatory to going home to
dine, while the fag remained driving the pen madly, kindly assisted sometimes by Quartermaster-Sergeant
Oates, until long after the dinner hour of the non-commissioned staff. I think the company
commanders must sometimes have doubted (unless they carefully refrained from reading orders,
as I have sometimes thought probable) whether the adjutant could write his name; for all our
orders used to be signed:

                'By order of Major JOHNSON HEAVYSTERNE:
                          FREDERICK HARCH, 1st Lieutenant and Adjutant,
                                   By WILLIAM JENKINS, Sergeant-Major.'

Now, if the printer sets this up properly, you will see that, even at that early day, we knew
too much to adopt the sensation style of signing orders which some officers have since learned
from the New York Herald, thus:

                          By command of
                                Major-General BULGER!
                                   WASHINGTON SMITH, A. A.-G.

In those days there was but little of that distinction of ranks which has come to be better
observed now that our volunteers have grown into an army. You see, the process of forming an
army out of its constituent element follows pretty much the fashion set by that complex machine
the human animal: the materials go through all the processes of swallowing, digestion, chylifaction,
chymifaction, absorption, alteration, and excretion; bone, muscle, nerve, sinew, viscera, and
what not, each taking its share, and discarding the useless material that has only served,
like bran in horse feed, to give volume and prehensibility to the mass. Our non-commissioned
staff messed with the major, who was as jolly a bachelor as need be, of some forty-nine years
of growth, and thirty of butchering, that being his occupation. The adjutant, being newly married
to a gaunt female, who, I hope, nagged him as he us, preferred to take his meals at home. Smallweed,
who had somehow got made quartermaster, couldn't go old Heavysterne, he said, and so kept as
long as he could to his desultory habits of living as a citizen and a bachelor. So our mess
consisted of the major, who exercised a paternal care over the rest of us, superintending,
indeed often joining in, our amusements and discussions, our quarrels and makings up; of Quartermaster-Sergeant
Oates, who knew all about everything and everybody better than anybody, and was always ready
to ventilate his superior knowledge on the slightest provocation, and who, as Smallweed, now
Lieutenant Smallweed, used to say, 'would have made a d----d elegant quartermaster-sergeant,
if he hadn't had a moral objection to issuing anything;' of Chaplain Bender, a sanctified-looking
individual of promiscuous theology and doubtful morals (the funny men used to speak of him
irreverently as Hell Bender); of the battalion commissary, Lieutenant Fippany, an unmitigated
swell; of Commissary-Sergeant Peck, a stumpy little fellow, full of facts and figures, and
always quiet and ready; of the writer, Sergeant-Major Jenkins, or Jinkens as my name used to
be mispronounced, infinitely to my disgust; and lastly, semi-occasionally, of the sutler, Mr.
Cann. The surgeon, old Doctor Peacack, ran a separate mess, consisting of himself, the assistant
surgeon, Dr. Launcelot Cutts, and hospital steward Spatcheloe.

The drum-major, Musician Tappit, having refused to be mustered in, and the War Department having
presently refused to let us have any musicians at all, used to appear only on parades, gorgeous
in his gray uniform and ornamental red stomach, disappearing with exemplary regularity, and
diving into his upholsterer's cap and baize apron upon the slightest prospect of work or danger.
I don't think it was ever my bad fortune to eat more unpleasant meals than those eaten at our
mess table. The officers, excepting the major, but specially including the chaplain, used to
insist on being helped first and excessively to everything; also on inviting their friends
to dine on our plates, there being no extra ones; also on giving us the broken chairs, one
in particular, that was cracked in a romp between the chaplain and the adjutant, and that pinched
you when you sat on it. Then Lieutenant Harch was always playing adjutant at the dinner table,
settling discussions ex cathedra in a sharp tone, and ordering his companions to help him to
dishes, as thus: 'Sergeant-Major, p'tatoes!' 'Oates, beef!' 'Hurry up with those beans!' To
be monosyllabic, rude to his superiors and equals, and overbearing to his inferiors in rank,
this fledgling soldier--our comrade of a few days since, and presently the subordinate of most
of us, through standing still while we went ahead--used to think the perfection and essence
of the military system. And then that smug-faced, smooth-tongued, dirty-looking chaplain, with
his second-hand shirt collars and slopshop morality--was it whiskey or brandy that his breath
smelt oftenest of? He was the first chaplain I had seen, and I confess his rank breath, dirty
linen, and ranker and dirtier hypocrisy, gave me a disgust toward his order that it took long
months and many good men to obliterate.

The best part of May we spent in drilling and idling and grumbling, and some of us, not so
hard worked as Sergeant-Major Jenkins, in the true military style of conviviality, usually
terminating in an abrupt entry in the orderly book, opposite the name of the follower of Bacchus,
'Drunk; two extra tours guard duty;' or 'Drunk again; four extra tours knapsack drill.' Now,
the knapsack drill, as practised by well-informed and duty-loving sergeants of the guard, simply
consists in requiring the delinquent to shoulder, say, for two hours in every six, a knapsack
filled with stones, blankets, or what not, until it weighs twenty, thirty, or perhaps forty
pounds, according to the nature of the case and the officer who orders the punishment.

Quartermaster-Sergeant Oates and I went up, one afternoon, with Lieutenant Smallweed, Corporal
Bledsoe of our old company, and two or three others, to see the famous 'Seventh' drill, out
at Camp Cameron, which I suppose nearly everybody knows is situated about a mile and a half
north of the President's house, on the 14th-street road, and just opposite to a one-horse affair
that used to call itself 'Columbian College,' but which, after passing through a course of
weak semi-religio-secessionism, gradually dried up, leaving its skin to the surgeon-general
for a hospital. The afternoon we selected to visit Camp Cameron turned out to be an extra occasion.
General Thomas, the adjutant-general of the army, was to present a stand of colors to the 'Seventh'
on behalf of Mr. Secretary Cameron, on behalf of some ladies, I think. Ladies! I admire you
very much, for the very many things wherein you are most admirable, but why, oh! why, in the
name of the immortals, will you, why will you present flags? Don't do it any more, please.
They are always packed up in a box and left somewhere almost as soon as your handkerchiefs
have ceased waving, your soprano hurrahs ceased ringing; or else they are given to some pet
officer for a coverlet. They cost a great deal of money; they oblige the poor soldiers to endure
a mort of flatulent oratory at a parade rest; and they force the poor colonel, in a great perspiration,
to stumble through a few feeble, ineffectual, and disjointed words of thanks, which he committed
to memory last night from the original, written for him by the adjutant or the young regimental
poet, but of which he has forgotten almost every other word. The wise old Trojan says, speaking
of the horse (I get my quotations from the newspapers, you may be sure):

     'Timeo Danaos, et dona ferentes;'

implying that he is opposed to going into that speculation in wooden horseflesh, because he
fears the Greeks, even when they bring gifts. Just so, I fear the ladies, especially when they
present flags. Remember Punch's advice to young persons about to be married? 'Don't!'

The Seventh, after going through the usual evening parade, and a few simple man[oe]uvres, formed
square, facing inward, with General Thomas and the oil-skin sausage that contained the new
colors, and all the regimental officers, in the centre. General Thomas's feeble pipes sounded
faintly enough for about half an hour, during which time no man in the ranks heard more than
a dozen words. Then Colonel Lefferts responded in a few inaudible, but no doubt very appropriate
remarks. Then 'the boys,' seeing that the time had come, cheered lustily, after the hypothetical
manner of the rocket. But there was one thing we did hear, standing on tiptoe, and straining
every ear. The Seventh was to go somewhere. The crisis of the war had come. The Seventh was
going to shoot at it. Their thirty days were almost out; but they were going to be shot at,
just like any of us three-months men.

To leave their canned fruits, and milk, and fresh eggs, and board floors, and a stroll on the
avenue in the afternoon, and go where glory waited for them! Happy, happy gray-breasts! We
wandered enviously round the excited camp, and talked with our friends. Many were the rumors,
appalling to us in those days, when we were yet unused to camp 'chin.' The regiment was to
go to Harper's Ferry. Johnston was there. They would hang him if they took him. They were to
march straight to Richmond, One man of the 'Engineer Company' was going to resign, he said,
because his company had to remain to guard the camp. They were to take two days' rations and
forty rounds of cartridges per man--ball cartridges. Forty rounds of ball cartridges and two
days' work! Surely, we thought, the days of the rebellion are numbered. And then, chewing the
bitter cud of the reflection that the war would almost certainly be ended before we got a chance
at the enemy, we wandered sadly back to our quarters, Smallweed growling horribly all the way.
Our 'headquarters' we find in a great state of excitement. We find the orderly and Major Heavysterne
discussing the prospects of the rebels being able to hold out a month, and Color-Sergeant Hepp
and the adjutant both trying to decide the dispute. Hepp thinks they can't do without leather,
and the adjutant thinks the want of salt must fetch them in a few weeks. Thinks? Decides! Whatever
may be doubtful, this is certain. Everybody seems strangely excited. We tell them our news.
'Tell us some'n do'n know!' rasps Lieutenant Harch; 'our b'ttalion's goin', too; get ready,
both of, quick! Smallweed, where in the h-- have you been? I've had to do all your work.' We
were to go at nine o'clock at night. It was then eight. Whither? No one knew. The chaplain
comes in, with symptoms of erysipelas in his nose, and a villanous breath, to tell us, while
we--the quartermaster-sergeant and I--are packing our knapsacks and leaving lines of farewell
for those at home and at other people's homes, that the major has imparted to him in confidence
the awful secret that we are bound for Mount Vernon, to remove the bones of Washington. This
gives us something terrible to think of as we march down, in quick time (a suggestion of that
adjutant, I know), to the Long Bridge, and during the long delay there, spent by commanding
officers in pottering about and gesticulating. By commanding officers? There is one there who
does not potter, standing erect--that one with the little point of fire between his fingers
that marks the never-quenched cigarette--talking to Major Heavysterne in low and earnest tones,
but perfectly cool and clear the while. That is our splendid Colonel Diamond, as brave and
good a soldier as ever drew sword, as noble and true a Christian as ever endured persecution
and showed patience. They are discussing a plan for crossing the river in boats, landing at
a causeway where the Alexandria road crosses Four Mile Run, and so cutting off the impudent
picket of the enemy's cavalry that holds post at the Virginia end of the Long Bridge. The battalion
commanders are evidently dazzled by the brilliancy of the moonlight and the colonel's scheme,
for it soon becomes apparent that they haven't the pluck and dash necessary to render such
an operation successful. Even we young soldiers, intent upon the awful idea of resurrecting
Washington's bones, and little dreaming then of becoming the pioneers of the great invasion,
could see the hitch. Presently the major got a definite order, and beckoning to us of the battalion
staff, began to cross the bridge. Dusky bodies of troops, their arms glistening in the moonlight,
had been silently gliding past us while the discussion progressed. Most of them seemed to have
halted on the bridge, we found as we passed on, and to have squatted down in the shade of the
parapet, gassing, smoking, or napping. It was nearly midnight. We had got to the middle of
the causeway, and found ourselves alone, bathed in silence and moonlight and wonder, when up
dashed a horseman from the direction of the Virginia side. He stopped, and peered at us over
his horse's neck. 'O'Malley, is that you?' says the major, seeing it is an Irish officer belonging
to Colonel Diamond's staff. 'Yes,' says the captain, 'and who the devil are you?' 'Major Heavysterne.
Won't you please ride back and send my battalion forward? You'll find the boys standing on
the draw. Cap'n Bopp, of the Fisler Guards, is the senior officer, I believe.' But the Irishman
was off, with an oath at the major's stupidity in forgetting to order his men forward. Presently
the battalion came creeping up, silently enough, I thought, but the adjutant made the excuse
of a casual 'ouch' from a man on whose heels Hrsthzschnoffski had casually trodden, to shriek
out his favorite 'Stop 'at talken'!' 'Do you command this battalion?' asks Captain Pipes, sternly;
and straightway there would have been a dire altercation, but for the major's gentle interference.
The bridge began to sway and roar under our steps. We were on the draw. Clinging to the theory
of Washington's bones, I peered over the draw, in the hope of seeing a steamer; there was nothing
there but the sop and swish of the tide. Perhaps we were not going to Mount Vernon at all!
'Halt! Who are these sleeping beauties on the draw? Ah! these are the Bulgers. 'Say, Bulger,'
I ask of one of them, 'who's ahead of you?' 'A'n't nobody,' he replied indignantly, as who
should say, Who can be ahead of the invincible Bulger Guards. Nobody! Here was great news.
''Orr'd H'RCH!' drones the major, in low tones; and 'Owa'' H'MP,' sharply, ''Orrrr 'RRRCH,'
gruffly, repeat the captains. On we go, breaking step to save the bridge, surprise and fluttering
in our hearts. A'n't nobody ahead! Now we are on the hard dirt, the sacred soil, of the pewter
State, mother of Presidents, the birthplace of Washington, the feeding ground of hams, but
otherwise the very nursery and hive of worthlessness, humbug, sham, and superstition. Virginia,
that might have been the first, and proudest, and most enlightened State in the Union, that
is the last and most besodden State in or half out of it--But while my apostrophe runs on,
the bit between its teeth, the head of our little column muffles its tread on the sacred soil
itself, dirtying its boots in the sacred mud, the roar of the bridge ceases, the last files
and the sergeant-major run after them to close up, in obedience to the sharp mandate of the
major, and the invasion is begun. No man spoke a word; no sound was audible save the distant
hum and cracking of the city, the cry of a thousand frogs, and the muffled tramp of our advancing
footsteps. I thought the enemy, if any were near, must surely hear the cartridges rattle in
my cartridge box as we double-quicked to close up, and I put my hand behind me to stop the
clatter. If any enemy were near, indeed! There seemed an enemy behind every bush, a rebel in
every corner of the worm fence. I am in the rear of the column, I thought, and my heart went
thump, bump, and my great central nervous ganglion ached amain. 'Sergeant-major,' whispers
Major Heavysterne; 'Sergeant-major,' barks the adjutant. 'Fall out four files and keep off
to the right, and about fifty paces in advance of the battalion, and examine the ground thoroughly.
Report any signs of the enemy.' The ache grew bigger, and I perspired terribly as I inquired,
in tones whose tremor I hoped would be mistaken for ardor, whether any one was ahead of us.
'No one except the enemy,' laughed the major, quietly. No one except the enemy! Fifty paces
from any one except the enemy, by my legs, each pace a yard! 'The ground to the right is all
water, and about seven feet deep,' I reported joyfully, having ascertained the fact. 'Then
go fifty yards ahead, as far to the right as you can get, and keep out of sight,' were our
new orders. I thought we would keep out of sight well enough! We were going up hill--up the
hill on which Fort Runyon now stands. Here is a shanty. What if it should be full of the enemy,
and we but four poor frightened men, with our battalion hidden by the turn in the road. Mechanically
I cocked my rifle and opened the door, and strained my eyes into the darkness. Nobody. I let
down the hammer again.

Fear had oozed out of my fingers' ends, in lifting the latch, just as valor did from those
of Bob Acres, and Jenkins was himself again. We jobbed our bayonets under the lager-beer counter,
to provide for the case of any lurking foe in that quarter. Just here the road forked. Sending
two of us to the right, the rest kept on the Alexandria. 'Look there,' chatters Todd second
between his teeth, wafting in my face a mingled odor of fear and gin cocktails. 'Where?' 'Why
there! on top of the hill--a horse.' 'Is that a horse?' 'Yes.' 'A man on him, too!' 'Two of
'em!' Click, click, click, from our locks. We creep on and up stealthily. We are scarcely thirty
yards distant from the two horsemen, when a man darts out from the left-hand side of the road
behind us--two men--three! We are surrounded. Todd second would have fired, but I held him
back. 'Who's that?' I whispered; 'speak quick, or I fire!' 'Can't you see, you d--d fool,'
barks out our surly adjutant, who, unknown to us, had been leading a similar scout on the opposite
side of the road. Click, click, from up the hill. The enemy are going to shoot. An awful moment.
We steady our rifles and our nerves; all trace of fear is gone; nothing remains but eagerness
for the conflict that seems so near, and with a bound, without waiting for orders, we move
quickly up the hill. Lieutenant Harch moves his men out into the road, where the bright moonlight
betrays, perhaps multiplies, their number; the horsemen spring to their saddles, and are off
at a clattering gallop, to alarm Alexandria. 'Don't shoot!' shrieks the adjutant; our rifles
waver; the hill hides the flying picket; the chance is lost; presently all Alexandria will
be awake, and a beautiful surprise frustrated. As we peer into the moonlit distance from the
top of the hill now almost spaded away and trimmed up into Fort Runyon, feeling the solemnity
of the occasion impressed upon us with dramatic force by all the surroundings--by our loneliness,
by our character as the harbingers of the advance of the armies of American freedom and American
nationality, and by the recent flight of the first squad of the enemy whom we had met with
hostile purpose: as we dreamily drink in all these and many other vague ideas, up comes our
battalion, and occupies the hill, the major sending off a company to hold the bridge where
the road crosses the canal and forks to Arlington and Fairfax Court House. Presently there
pass by us regiments from Michigan, New York, New Jersey, and it may be from other States which
I forget. Some turn off to the right, to settle on the hill which is now scooped into Fort
Albany; others press forward to Alexandria, the bells of which town very soon begin to ring
a frightened peal of alarm and confusion. We move out a half mile farther and halt, our night's
work being over, and other things in store; the moonlight wanes, and grows insensibly into
a chilly daylight, presently reddened by the sun of to-morrow. All this seems to us to have
occupied scarcely half an hour, but it is broad day again for certain, and surely we are a
mortally tired and aching battalion as we march back listless, hot, sleepy, and gastric, over
the Long Bridge, to our armory, there to fall asleep over breakfast in sheer exhaustion, and
to spend the remainder of the day in a dry, hard series of naps, not the least refreshing--such
as leave you the impression of having slept in hot sand. As we--the quartermaster-sergeant
and I--stroll down the avenue that afternoon according to our wont, we hear the news of Ellsworth's
death, of the occupation of Alexandria by our forces, and of the flight of the enemy's handful
of silly, braggadocio Virginia militia, hastily collected to brag and drink the town safe from
the pollution of the vile Yankee's invading foot. Ah! V'ginia; as thou art easily pleased to
sing of thy sister-in-law, Ma'yland,

     'The taäirahnt's foot is awn thaï sho','

and will be likely to remain thar a right tollable peert length of time, I expect.

Nothing but bridge guarding in the festering swamp on the Virginia side of the Potomac, varied
by multiplying details for extra duty as clerks in all imaginable offices, falls to our lot
until the 10th of June, when, after a number of rumors, and many dark forebodings as to what
the District men would do, we are finally ordered into the field as a part of the Chickfield
expedition, originally designed for the capture of Dregsville, I believe; an object which may
have been slightly interfered with by its detailed announcement about a week beforehand in
one of the Philadelphia papers. The expedition consisted of the First, Third, Fifth, and Ninth
Battalions of District of Columbia Volunteers, the First New Hampshire, the Ninth New York,
and the Seventeenth Pennsylvania, which would call itself the First. I think four other regiments
from the same State did the same thing, it being a cardinal principle with them, perhaps, that
each regiment was to claim two different names and three different numbers, and that at least
four other regiments were fiercely to dispute with it each name and each number: for example,
there was the

  First Pennsylvania Artillery,           }
  calling itself the...                   }
                                          }
  First Pennsylvania Militia, Infantry,   } First
  calling itself the...                   } Pennsylvania
                                          } Regiment.
  First Pennsylvania Volunteers, Infantry,}
  calling itself the...                   }
                                          }
  First Pennsylvania Volunteers, Infantry,}
  calling itself, and called by           }
  the Governor, the...                    }

And for another example there was a regiment which called itself the 'Swishtail Carbines,'
after a beastly ornament in the hats of its men; the 'Shine Musketoons,' after their lieutenant-colonel;
the '289th Pennsylvania Volunteers,' after the State series of numbers, which began with 280
or thereabout; and the 'First Regiment of the Pennsylvania Volunteer Reserve Corps, Breech-Loading
Carbineers,' and doubtless by other names, though I don't remember them.

Besides this tremendous host--we had never seen so large a force together, and thought it the
most invincible of armadas--we had a battery of artillery, composed of three or four different
kinds of guns, as the fashion was in the good old days of our company posts, wherefrom we were
just emerging in a chrysalis state, and also two companies of cavalry; one a real live company
of regulars, commanded by Captain Cautle, of the Third Dragoons, the other led by Captain (he
called himself major, and his company a battalion) Cutts, formerly and since an enterprising
member of the firm of Cutts & Dunn, who made my uniform, and who will make your clothes, if
you wish, my dear reader, and charge you rather less than three times their value, after the
manner of Washington tailors; which charge will appear especially moderate when you remember
that the clothes will almost fit, and won't wear out so very soon after all, as is the way
with Washington clothes. Indeed, as the tactics say, 'this remark is general for all the deployments;'
and the same may as well be said of all bills and things made in the great city of sheds, contractors,
politicians, dust, and unfinished buildings. But is this a description of Washington? We are
at Chickfield, where the loyal Maryland farmers come to us to protect their loyalty, to charge
a dollar a panel for old worm fences thrown down by 'the boys,' to sell forage at double prices,
to reclaim runaway negroes, and to assure us of the impossibility of subjugating the South.
And here, in the peaceful village of Chickfield, the object of our expedition having been happily
frustrated by the newspapers, we enjoy our ease for a week or ten days, and our first camp
experiences. Oh! that first experience of unboxing tents smelling loudly as of candle grease,
of finding the right poles, of vainly endeavoring to pitch them straight, of hot and excited
officers rushing hither and thither in a flurry, trying to instruct the different squads in
their work, and straightway frustrated by the thick heads, or worse, by the inevitable suggestions
of those remarkably intelligent corporals, who seem to consider themselves as having a special
mission direct from heaven to know everything except how to do what they are bid. And oh! the
first camp cookery, when everything is overdone except what is underdone; when the soup is
water, and the coffee grounds, and the tea (we had tea in the three-months!) senna! And after
a day of worry, hurry, confusion, and awful cooking, the first rough sleep, with a root running
across your ribs, and a sizable gravel indenting the small of your back! How the teamsters
talk all night, and the sentinels call wildly, incessantly, for the corporal of the guard!
How you dream of being hung on a wire, as if to dry, with your head on a jagged rock; of an
army of sentinels pacing your breast, ceaselessly engaged in coming to an 'order arms;' of
millions of ants crawling over and through you; of having your legs suddenly thrust into an
icehouse, and a brush fire built under your head; of black darkness, in which you fall down,
down, down, down--faster, faster, faster!--till crash! you bump against something, and split
wide open with a thundering roar, which gradually expands into the sound of a bugle as you
awake to renewed misery, and are, as Mr. Sawin says, 'once more routed out of bed by that derned
reveille.'

Presently there comes an order for us to march to Billsburg, and there join the army of the
Musconetcong, commanded by that dauntless hero, Major-General Robert Balkinsop. Of course we
march in a hurry, as much as possible by night, 'without baggage,' as the orders say--meaning
with only two wagons to a company. The other battalions of D.C. Vols. stay behind and loaf
back to Washington, there to be mislaid by Major-General Blankhed, who is so preoccupied with
issuing and affixing his sign manual to passes for milk, eggs, and secessionists, to cross
and recross Long Bridge, that the war must wait for him or go ahead without him. We go on to
glory, as we suppose (deluded three-months!), and march excitedly, with all our legs, fearing
we shall be too late. As we near Billsburg, we can hear the since familiar tick--tack, pip--pop--pop
of a rattling skirmish, and the vroom--vroom of volley firing. Anxiously, eagerly--no need
for the colonel to cry 'Step out lively!'--we press forward, with all the ardor of recruits.
Recruits! Hadn't we been a month in service, and been through one great invasion already? There
they are! See the smoke? Where? On top of that hill! Halt! Our battalion deploys as skirmishers
with a useless cheer. We close up. We load with ball cartridge, and most of us, on our individual
responsibility, fix bayonets; it looks so determined--nothing like the cold steel, we think.
Slowly, resolutely, we advance. An aid comes galloping back. We crowd round him. The colonel
looks disgustedly handsome. What does he say? Pshaw! It's only the 284th Pennsylvania, part
of General Balkinsop's body guard, discharging muskets after rain. Only three soldiers, a negro,
a couple of mules, and an old woman, have been hurt so far, and 'the boys' will be through
in an hour or so more!

Well, as we were sent for in a hurry, of course we waited a week. How General Balkinsop man[oe]uvred
the great army of the Musconetcong; what fatherly, nay, grandmotherly care he took to keep
us out of danger; how cautiously he spread, his nets for the enemy, and how rapidly he left
them miles behind; how we killed nothing but chickens, wounded nothing but our own silly pride,
and captured nothing but green apples and roasting ears; all this, and more, let history tell.
The poor old general kept us safe, at all events; and if the enemy, with half our numbers,
was left unharmed, and allowed quietly and leisurely to move off and swell his force elsewhere,
and so whip us in detail, what of it? Didn't we save our wagon train? And isn't that, as everyone
knows, the highest result of strategy?

And then came the battle (the battle!) of Bull Run, with its first glowing, crowing accounts
of victory, and its later story of humiliation and shame! Ah! let me shut up the page! My heart
grows sick over this mangy, scrofulous period of our national disease; give me air!

Luckily for me, I had a raging fever just after that awful 21st of July, 1861. When I awoke
from my delirium, and had got as far as tea, toast, and the door of the hospital, they told
me of the great uprising of the people, of General McClellan's appointment to command the Army
of the Potomac, of how 'our boys' had reënlisted for the war, and of how I, no longer Sergeant-Major
William Jenkins, was to be adjutant of the regiment, and might now take off my chevrons, and
put on my SHOULDER STRAPS.

She sent them to me in a letter. Wait a month, and I'll tell you.

THE FIRST FANATIC.

  When Noah hewed the timber
    Wherewith to build the ark,
  Outside the woods one shouted--
    'That wild fanatic!--hark!'

  And when he drew the beams
    And laid them on the plain,
  One said,'He has no balance,
    He surely is insane.'

  And when he raised the frame,
    One clear, sunshiny day,
  'Poor fool of one idea,'
    A smiling man did say.

  When he foretold the flood,
    And stood repentance teaching,
  They sneered, 'You radical,
    We'll hear no ultra preaching!'

  And when he drove the beasts and birds
    Into the ark one morn,
  They shouted, 'Odd enthusiast!'
    And laughed with ringing scorn.

  When he and all his house went in,
    They gazed, and said, 'Erratic!'
  'A pleasant voyage to you, Noah!
    You canting, queer fanatic!'

SKETCHES OF AMERICAN LIFE AND SCENERY.

V.--THE ADIRONDACS.

This interesting mountain region embraces the triangular plateau lying between Lake Champlain
and the St. Lawrence, Lake Ontario and the Mohawk. The name was formerly restricted to the
central group containing the highest peaks, but is now applied to the various ranges traversing
the northeastern counties of the State of New York. The loftiest points are found in the County
of Essex and the neighboring corners of Franklin; but the surfaces of Clinton, St. Lawrence,
Herkimer, Hamilton, Warren, and Washington are all diversified by the various branches of the
same mountain system. The principal ranges have a general northeasterly and southwesterly direction,
and are about six in number. They run nearly parallel with one another, and with the watercourses
flowing into Lake Champlain, namely, Lake George and Putnam's Creek, the Boquet, Au Sable,
and Saranac Rivers. Recent surveys made by, or under the direction of, Professor A. Guyot,
will doubtless furnish us with more accurate information regarding ranges and measurements
of heights than any we can now refer to. So far as we have been able to learn from the best
authorities within our reach,[2] the situation and names of the most prominent ranges are as
follows: The most southerly is that known as the Palmertown or Luzerne Mountains, and embraces
the highlands of Lake George, terminating at Mount Defiance, on Lake Champlain. This range
has also been called Black Mountain range and Tongue Mountains. The second range, the Kayaderosseras,
ends in the high cliff overlooking Bulwagga Bay. The third, or Schroon range, terminates on
Lake Champlain in the high promontory of Split Rock. It borders Schroon Lake, and its highest
peak is Mount Pharaoh, nearly 4,000 feet above tidewater. The fourth, or Boquet range, finds
its terminus at Perou Bay, and contains Dix Peak (5,200 feet), Nipple Top (4,900 feet), Raven
Hill, and Mount Discovery. The fifth or Adirondac range (known also as Clinton or Au Sable)
meets Lake Champlain in the rocks of Trembleau Point, and embraces the highest peaks of the
system, namely, Mount Tahawus (Marcy), 5,379 feet, and Mounts Mc-Intire, McMartin, and San-da-no-na,
all above 5,000 feet in elevation. The series nest succeeding on the northwest, does not consist
of a single distinguishable range, but of a continuation of groups which may be considered
as a sixth range, under the name of Chateaugay or Au Sable. Its highest points are Mount Seward
(5,100 feet), and Whiteface, nearly 5,000 feet in height. We have also seen noticed as distinguishable
a ridge still exterior to the last mentioned, as Chateaugay, i.e., the range of the St. Lawrence.

[Footnote 2: NEW YORK SATE GAZETTEER.]

The above-named ranges are not always clearly defined, as cross spurs or single mountains sometimes
occupy the entire space between two ridges, reducing the customary valley to a mere ravine.
The usual uncertainty and redundancy of nomenclature common to mountain regions, adds to the
difficulty of obtaining or conveying clear ideas of the local distribution of elevation and
depression. On the northern slope, the three rivers, Boquet, Au Sable (with two branches, East
and West), and Saranac, furnish to the traveller excellent guides for the arrangement of his
conceptions, regarding the general face of the country. To the south, the same office is performed
by the various branching headwaters of the Hudson.

These mountains are granitic, and the river bottoms have a light, sandy soil. The Au Sable
well deserves its name, not only from the bar at its mouth, but also from the sand fields through
which it chiefly flows. Steep, bare peaks, wild ravines, and stupendous precipices characterize
the loftier ranges. The waterfalls are numerous and beautiful, and the lakes lovely beyond
description. More than one hundred in number, they cluster round the higher groups of peaks,
strings of glittering gems about the stately forms of these proud, dark-browed, Indian beauties--mirrors
wherein they may gaze upon the softened outlines of their haughty heads, their wind-tossed
raiment of spruce fir, pines, and birch.

In the lowest valleys the oak and chestnut are abundant, but as we leave the shores of Lake
Champlain and ascend toward the west, the beech and basswood, butternut, elm, ash, and maple,
hemlock and arbor vitæ, tamarack, white, black, and yellow pines, white and black birch, gradually
disappear, until finally the forest growth of the higher portions of the loftier summits is
composed almost exclusively of the various species of spruce or fir. The tamarack sometimes
covers vast plains, and, with the long moss waving from its sombre branches, looks melancholy
enough to be fancied a mourner over the ring of the axe felling noble pines, the crack of the
rifle threatening extermination to the deer once so numerous, or the cautious tread of the
fisherman under whose wasteful rapacity the trout are gradually disappearing. We have reason
to be thankful that all are not yet gone--that some splendid specimens are left to tell the
glorious tale of the primeval forest, that on the more secluded lake shores an occasional deer
may yet be seen coming down to drink, and that in the shadier pools the wary and sagacious
prince of fishes still disports himself and cleaves the crystal water with his jewelled wedge.

Berries of all sorts spring up on the cleared spots; the wide-spreading juniper, with its great
prickly disks, covers the barer slopes; the willow herb, wild rose, clematis, violet, golden
rod, aster, immortelle, arbutus, harebell, orchis, linnæa borealis, mitchella, dalibarda, wintergreen,
ferns innumerable, and four species of running pine, all in due season, deck the waysides and
forest depths.

The climate is intensely cold in winter, and in the summer cool upon the heights, but in the
narrow sandy valleys the long days of June, July, and August are sometimes uncomfortably hot.
The nights, however, are ordinarily cool. Going west through the middle of the region, from
Westport to Saranac, a difference of several weeks in the progress of vegetation is perceptible.
Long after the linnæa had ceased to bloom at Elizabethtown, we found its tender, fragrant,
pink bells flushing a wooded bank near Lake Placid. Good grass grows upon the hillsides, and
in the valleys are found excellent potatoes, oats, peas, beans, and buckwheat. The corn is
small, but seems prolific, and occasional fields of flax, rye, barley, and even wheat, present
a flourishing appearance. Lumber, charcoal, and iron ore of an excellent quality are, however,
the present staples of this mountain region. Bears and panthers are found in some secluded
localities, and the farmer still dreads the latter for his sheep. The wolves are said to kill
more deer than the hunters. The otter and beaver are found among the watercourses, and the
mink or sable is still the prey of the trapper. The horses are ordinarily of a small breed,
but very strong and enduring.

The men are chiefly of the Vermont type, most of the original settlers having come from the
neighboring State. The school house, court house, church, and town hall are hence regarded
as among the necessary elements of life to the well-ordered citizen. Honest dealing, thrift,
and cleanliness are the rule, and the farm houses are comfortable and well cared for. The men
look intelligent, and the women are handsome, although, indeed, too many pale or sallow complexions
give evidence of sedentary habits, and of the almost universal use of saleratus and hot bread
[??]. The families of many farmers far in among the mountains rarely taste fresh meat, but
subsist chiefly upon salt pork, fish, fresh or salted, as the season will permit, potatoes,
wheat, rye, and Indian meal, with berries, dried apples, perhaps a few garden vegetables, plenty
of good milk, and excellent butter. Eggs, chickens, and veal are luxuries occasionally to be
enjoyed, and, should one of the family be a good shot, venison and partridge may appear upon
the bill of fare. Bright flowers ornament the gardens, and gay creepers embower doors and windows.
Along the more secluded roads are the log cabins of the charcoal burners, said cabins containing,
if apparently nothing else, two or three healthy, chubby, pretty children, and a substantial
cooking stove, of elaborate pattern, recently patented by some enterprising compatriot.

Among the most remarkable features of these mountains are the 'Passes,' answering to Gaps,
Notches, and Cloves in other parts of the Union. They afford means for excellent roads from
end to end of the mountain region, and are, in addition, eminently picturesque. The two most
noteworthy are the Indian and Wilmington Passes; the first too rugged for the present to admit
of a road; and the latter containing the beautiful Wilmington Fall. Many of the mountains have
been burned over, and the bare, gaunt-limbed timber, and contorted folds of gray, glittering
rock, afford a spectral contrast to the gentler contours of hills still clad in their natural
verdure, bright or dark as deciduous or evergreen trees preponderate. The variety of form is
endless; long ridges, high peaks, sharp or blunt, sudden clefts, great bare slides, flowing
curves, convex or concave, serrated slopes crowned with dark spruce or jagged as the naked
vertebræ of some enormous antediluvian monster, stimulate the curiosity and excite the imagination
of the beholder. There is an essential difference in the character of the views obtained, whether
looking from the south, or the east. In the former case, the eye, following the axes of the
ranges, sees the mountains as a cross ridge of elevated peaks; and in the latter, where the
sight strikes the ranges perpendicularly to their axes, one, or, at most, two ridges are all
that can be seen from any single point.

This region may be approached from Lake Champlain by way of Ticonderoga, Crown Point, Port
Henry, Westport, and Port Kent, the two latter places being the nearer to the higher peaks;
or from the lake country in Hamilton County, by way of Racket and Long Lakes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night boat for Albany, June 27th, 1864, was crowded with passengers fleeing from pavements,
summer heats, and stifling city air, to green fields, cool shadows of wooded glens, or life-giving
breezes from mountain heights. True, there were some who, like Aunt Sarah Grundy, bitterly
lamented the ample rooms and choice fare of their own establishments, and whose idea of a 'summer
in the country' was limited to a couple of months at Saratoga or Newport, with a fresh toilette
for each succeeding day; but even these knew that there were at both places green trees, limpid
waters, whether of lake or ocean, and a wide horizon wherein to see sunsets, moonrises, and
starlight. Aunt Sarah went to Newport; she found there fewer of such persons as she was pleased
to designate as 'rabble,' and the soft, warm fogs were exactly the summer atmosphere for a
complexion too delicate to be exposed to the fervent blaze of a July sun.

But the majority were not of Aunt Sarah's stamp. They were men, wearied with nine months' steady
work, eager for country sports, for the freedom of God's own workhouse, where labor and bad
air and cramped positions need not be synonymous; or women, glad to escape the routine of housekeeping,
the daily contest with Bridget or Katrine, with Jean, Williams, or Priscilla. There were young
girls, with round hats and thick boots, anxious to substitute grassy lanes or rocky hillsides
for the flagstones of avenues; lads, to whom climbing of fruit trees and rowing boats were
pleasant reminiscences of some foregone year; and finally, children, who longed for change,
and whose little frames needed all the oxygen and exercise their anxious parents could procure
for them.

Such, doubtless, was a large portion of the precious freight of our 'floating palace,' whose
magnificence proved to us rather of the Dead-Sea-apple sort, as we had arrived upon the scene
of action too late to procure comfortable quarters for the night, and, in addition, soon after
daybreak found ourselves aground within sight of Albany, and with no prospect of release until
after the departure of the train for Whitehall. At a few moments past seven, we heard the final
whistle, and knew that our journey's end was now postponed some four and twenty hours. We afterward
learned that by taking the boat to Troy we would have run less risk of delay, as the Whitehall
and Rutland train usually awaits the arrival of said boat. At nine o'clock we reached Albany,
and one of our number spent a dreary day, battling with headache and the ennui of a little
four year old, who could extract no amusement from the unsuggestive walls of a hotel parlor.
About five in the afternoon we left for Whitehall, where we purposed passing the night. This
movement did not one whit expedite the completion of our journey, but offered a change of place,
and an additional hour of rest in the morning, as the lake-boat train from Whitehall was the
same that left Albany shortly after seven.

We found Whitehall a homely little town, in a picturesque situation, on the side of a steep
hill, past which winds the canal, and under which thundered the train that on the following
morning bore us to the lake, where the pleasant steamboat 'United States' awaited her daily
cargo. The upper portion of Lake Champlain is very narrow, and the channel devious; the shores
are sometimes marshy, sometimes rocky, and the bordering hills have softly swelling outlines.
Our day was hazy, and the Green Mountains of Vermont seemed floating in some species of celestial
atmosphere suddenly descended upon that fair State. We passed the Narrows (a singular, rocky
cleft, through which flows the lake), and soon after came to Ticonderoga, with its ruined fort
and environing hills.

After leaving Crown Point, the lake becomes much wider, and at Port Henry spreads out into
a noble expanse of water. Behind Port Henry, the Adirondac peaks already begin to form a towering
background. Westport, however, has a still more beautiful situation. The lake there is very
broad, the sloping shores are wooded, the highest peaks of the Green Mountains are visible
to the east and northeast, and the Adirondacs rise, tier after tier, toward the west.

On the boat were wounded soldiers going to their homes. Poor fellows! They had left their ploughs
and their native hills, to find wounds and fevers in Virginia. When one looked upon the tranquil
lake and halo-crowned mountains, it seemed almost impossible that the passions of evil men
should have power to draw even that placid region into the vortex, and hurl back its denizens
scarred and scathed, to suffer amid its beauty. And yet were these men the very marrow and
kernel of the landscape, the defenders of the soil, the patriots who were willing to give themselves
that their country might remain one and undivided, that the 'home of the brave' might indeed
be the 'land of the free.'

At Westport we left the boat, and found the stage to Elizabethtown, a buckboard, already crowded
with passengers. An inn close at hand furnished us the only covered wagon we chanced to see
during our ten weeks' sojourn among the Adirondacs. The drive to Elizabethtown (eight miles)
was hot and dusty, for we faced the western sun, and the long summer drought was just then
commencing to make itself felt. Nevertheless, there was beauty enough by the wayside to make
one forget such minor physical annoyances. As the road rose over the first hills, the views
back, over the lake and toward those hazy, dreamy-looking Vermont mountains, seemed a leaf
from some ancient romance, wherein faultless knights errant sought peerless lady loves with
golden locks flowing to their tiny feet, and the dragons were all on the outside, dwellers
in dark caverns and noisome dens. In our day, I fear, we have not improved the matter, for
the dark caverns seem to have passed within, and the dragons have been adopted as familiars.

By and by, on some arid spots, appeared the low, spreading juniper, which we had previously
known only as the garden pet of an enthusiastic tree fancier. And thus, perhaps, the virtues
which here we cultivate by unceasing care and watchfulness, will, when we are translated to
some wider sphere, nearer to the Creator of all, burst upon us as simple, natural gifts to
the higher and freer intelligences native to that sphere.

Raven Hill is the highest point between Westport and Elizabethtown. It is a beautifully formed
conical hill, rising some twenty-one hundred feet above the sea level, and contributing the
cliffs on the northern side of the 'Pass,' through which leads the road into the valley of
the Boquet, that vale known formerly as the 'The Pleasant Valley,' in which was Betseytown,
now dignified into Elizabethtown. Does an increase in civilization and refinement indeed destroy
familiarity, render us more strange one to another, even, through much complexity, to our own
selves? The southern side of the Pass is formed by the slope of the 'Green Mountain,' once
so called from its beautiful verdure, now, alas! burnt over, bristling with dead trees and
bare rocks, and green only by reason of weeds, brambles, and a bushy growth of saplings. The
view, descending from the summit of the Pass into the Pleasant Valley, is charming. The Boquet
runs through green meadows and cultivated fields, while round it rise lofty mountains--the
'Giant of the Valley' (alias 'Great Dome' or 'Bald Peak'), being especially remarkable, with
its summits, green or bare, round or peaked, glittering with white scars of ancient slides.
To the west lies the Keene Pass, a steep, rocky gateway to the Au Sable River and the wonders
beyond. This view of the descent into the Pleasant Valley is even more striking from a road
passing over the hills some five miles south of Elizabethtown. The vale is narrower, the point
of view higher, and the opposite mountains nearer and more lofty. The Giant of the Valley rises
directly in the west, and Dix's Peak closes the vista to the south. On a semi-hazy afternoon,
with the sunlight streaming through in broad pathways of quivering glory, it would be difficult
to imagine a more enchanting scene.

There are in Elizabethtown two inns,[3] one down by the stream, a branch of the Boquet, and
the other up on the 'Plain,' near the court house. The latter has decidedly the advantage in
situation. Both are owned by the same landlord, and are well kept. We arrived in the midst
of court week, and found every place filled with lawyers, clients, witnesses, and even, behind
the bars of the brick jail, we could see the prisoners, more fortunate than their city compeers,
in that they breathed pure air, and could look out upon the everlasting hills, solemn preachers
of the might and the rights, as well as the mercy of their Creator.

[Footnote 3: During the past season, the Mansion House, on the Plain, was not opened until
near the close Of the summer. We understand it is to be henceforth a permanent 'institution.']

From two to three miles from the Valley House is the top of Raven Hill, seemingly a watchtower
on the outskirts of the citadel of the Adirondacs. The ascent is easy, and the view panoramic,
embracing Lake Champlain and the Green Mountains, Burlington and Westport, the bare, craggy
hills to the north, the higher ranges to the west, with the abrupt precipices of the 'Keene
Pass' and the lofty 'Dome' and 'Bald Mountain,' Dix's Peak to the south, a clear lake known
as 'Black Pond' among the hills toward Moriah, and at the base the Pleasant Valley with the
winding Boquet River.

Near the lower hotel is Wood Mountain, about half as high as Raven Hill, and offering a view
somewhat similar, although of course not so extended. The distance to the top is but little
over a mile, and the pathway, although somewhat steep, is very good.

A visit to the iron mines and works at Moriah can readily be made from Elizabethtown. The distance
is from twelve to fourteen miles. One of the mines is quite picturesque, being cut into the
solid rock, under a roof supported by great columns of the valuable ore. The workmen, with
their picks and barrows, passing to and fro, as seen from the top of the excavation, look like
German pictures of tiny gnomes and elves delving for precious minerals. The yield from the
ore is about eighty per cent., and of very superior quality. The return road passes down the
hill, whence is the splendid view of the 'Valley' before mentioned.

A delightful excursion can also be made to 'Split Rock,' about nine miles up the valley of
the Boquet. The little river there, in two separate falls, makes its way through a rocky cleft.
The basins of the upper, and the singularly winding chasm of the lower fall, are especially
worthy of observation. At Split Rock we first made any extensive acquaintance with a costume
which threatens to be immensely popular among the Adirondacs, namely, the Bloomer, and in the
agility displayed by some of its fair wearers we beheld the results likely to spring from its
adoption as a mountain walking dress. Our private observation was, that moderately full, short
skirts, without hoop of course, terminating a little distance above the ankle, and worn with
clocked or striped woollen stockings, were more graceful than a somewhat shorter and scantier
skirt, with the pantalette extending down to the foot. The former seems really à la paysanne,
while the latter, in addition to some want of grace, suggests Bloomer, and the many absurdities
which have been connected with that name. It is a great pity that a sensible and healthful
change in walking attire should have been caricatured by its own advocates, and thus rendered
too conspicuous to be agreeable to many who would otherwise have adopted it in some modified
and reasonable form.

Near New Russia, about five miles from Elizabethtown, is a brook flowing among moss-covered
stones and rocks, overhung by giant trees of the original forest; and just out of Elizabethtown
is a glen, through which pours a pretty stream, making pleasant little cascades under the shadow
of a less aged wood, and within a bordering of beautiful ferns, running pines, and bright forest
blossoms. We should also not neglect to mention Cobble Hill, a bold pile of rocks, rising directly
out of the plain on which a portion of the town is situated.

But we had heard of the 'Walled Rocks of the Au Sable,' and Elsie and I could not rest until
our own eyes had witnessed that they were worthy of their reputation. We left Elizabethtown
at half past six in the morning, our team a fast pair of ponies, belonging to our landlord.
The previous days had been warm and obstinately hazy, but for that especial occasion the atmosphere
cooled and cleared, and lent us some fine views back toward the Giant of the Valley and the
Keene Pass. The first ten miles of road were excellent. We then crossed a little stream known
as Trout Brook, a tributary of the Boquet, and, by a somewhat rough and stony way, began to
ascend the high land separating the Boquet from the Au Sable. This ridge includes the 'Poke
a Moonshine' Mountain, a rude pile of rocks, burnt over, and with perpendicular precipices
of some three or four hundred feet, facing the road which winds along the bottom of the declivity.
This cleft thus becomes another 'Pass,' and, with the huge rocks fallen at its base, offers
a wild and rather dreary scene. To the north, near the foot of the mountain, are two ponds,
Butternut and Auger, which wind fantastically in and out among the hills. As we descended the
ridge, we looked toward Canada, far away over rolling plains and hillocks, and soon after reached
the sandy stretch of the basin of the Au Sable, in the midst of which is Keeneville, twenty-two
miles from Elizabethtown.

By the wayside we passed a solitary grave, the mound and headstone in a patch of corn and potatoes.
Was the unknown occupant some dear one whom the dwellers in the humble cabin near by were unwilling
to send far away from daily remembrance, or were they too poor to seek the shelter of the common
graveyard, or, again, had the buriers of that dead one followed to the 'land of promise,' or
departed to some other far country, leaving this grave to the care or rather carelessness of
stranger hands, and did the snowy headstone recall no memory of past love to the laborer who
ploughed his furrow near that mound, or to the children who played around it?

Ah! thus, not only in the mystical caverns of beauty, poetry, and romance are hidden the graves
of buried hopes, but even amid the corn and potatoes of daily life rise the ghostly head and
foot stones of aspirations dead and put away out of sight, dead in the body, in daily act,
but living yet in spirit, and influencing the commonplace facts to which they have yielded
the field, permeating the everyday routine with the ennobling power of lofty desires, and keeping
the wayworn traveller from sinking into the slough of materialism or the quicksands of utter
weariness. The man who in his youth dreamed of elevating his kind by a noble employment of
the gifts of genius, may find that genius apparently useless, a hindrance even to prosperity,
but he can nevertheless sow along his way seeds of beauty not lost upon the thinking beings
about him, and bearing fruit perhaps in some future generation. The woman whose reveries have
pictured her a Joan of Arc, leading her country's armies to victory, and finally yielding her
life in the good cause, may sew for sanitary commissions, and, nursing in some hospital, dropping
medicines, making soups and teas, die of some deadly fever, a willing sacrifice to her country.

Later in the day we saw the corn and potatoes growing up to the very verge of an exquisite
waterfall, reckless strength and glorious poetry side by side with patient utility and humble
prose. This union seemed not strange and unnatural, as did that of the solitary grave with
the active labor of supplying the living with daily food, the grave the more lonely that the
living with their material wants encircled it so closely.

Keeseville is a manufacturing town, situated upon the Au Sable, which here breaks through a
layer of Potsdam sandstone, and presents a series of most interesting and wonderful falls and
chasms. About a mile below the village is the first fall of eighty feet. The river has here
a large body of water, and falls in fan shape over a rapid descent of steps. It takes a sharp
turn, so that without crossing the stream, a fine view can be obtained of the dancing, glittering
sheet of foam. About half a mile below is Birmingham, another manufacturing town, which has
done its best, but without entire success, to destroy the beauty of the second fall, immediately
below the bridge, said bridge being erected upon natural piers at the sides and in the centre
of the stream.

Here begins a chasm which continues for the distance of about a mile and a half. Wonderfully
grand are these Walled Rocks of the Au Sable, through, which rushes the river, pent up between
literally perpendicular walls, a hundred or more feet in height, and from eleven to sixty or
eighty feet apart, generally from twelve to fourteen. The water sometimes rushes smoothly and
deeply below, and sometimes falls over obstructions, roaring, and tumbling, and foaming. The
turns in the river are very sudden, and there are great cracks and gullies extending from top
to base, pillars of rock standing alone or leaning against their companions. Occasionally,
looking down one of these clefts, one sees nothing but the rock walls with a foaming, rapid
rushing below. At one of these most remarkable points, a rude stairway has been constructed,
by which the traveller can descend to the bottom, and, standing by the water's edge, look up
to the top of this singular chasm. The walls finally lower, and the river flows out into a
broad basin, whence it ere long finds its way into Lake Champlain. The banks are wooded with
pines, hemlocks, spruce, arbor vitaæ, beech, birch, and basswood, and the ground is covered
with ferns, harebells, arbutus, linnæa, mitchella, blue lobelia, and other wild flowers.

There is an excellent inn, the Adirondac House, in Keeseville. Our attentive host told us of
Professor Agassiz, and the fiery nature of his speculations regarding the probable history
of the sandstone, whose strata, laid as at Trenton Falls, horizontally, layer above layer,
add such interest and beauty to the stupendous walls, with their unseen, water-covered depths
below, and their graceful wreaths of arbor vittæ nodding and swaying above.

He also told us a tale of the war of 1812, when a bridge, known as the 'High Bridge,' crossed
the Au Sable at the narrowest point, some eleven feet in width. A rumor was abroad that the
British were about to march up from Plattsburg; whereupon the bridge, consisting of three beams,
each nine inches wide, was stripped of its planking. A gentleman had left his home in the morning,
and, ignorant of the fate of the bridge, returned quite late at night. Urging his steed forward,
it refused to cross the bridge, and not until after repeated castigation would it make the
attempt. The crossing was safely accomplished, and the rider suspected nothing amiss until
he reached home and was asked how he had come. 'By the High Bridge,' was his reply; whereupon
he was informed that the planking had been torn away, and he must have crossed upon a string
piece nine inches wide, hanging some hundred feet above the surface of the water. His sensations
may be imagined.

A venturesome expedition had also been essayed by our host, in the shape of a voyage down the
chasm in a boat. We presume he went at high water, when the rapids would be less dangerous.

Keeseville is only four miles from Port Kent, a steamboat landing on Lake Champlain nearly
opposite Burlington, and the Adirondacs may then be approached in several ways. A stage runs
three times per week from Keeseville through Elizabethtown and Schroon River to Schroon Lake.
North Elba and Lake Placid are some thirty-six miles distant, and may be reached by a good
road through the Wilmington Pass. Saranac is somewhat farther, but readily accessible. Strong
wagons and good teams are everywhere to be found, and the only recommendation we here think
needful to make to the traveller is to have a good umbrella, a thick shawl or overcoat, and
as little other baggage as he or she can possibly manage to find sufficient. Trunks are sadly
in the way, and carpet bags or valises the best forms for stowage under seats or among feet.

LOIS PEARL BERKELEY.

The fiery July noon was blazing over the unsheltered depot platform, where everybody was in
the agony of trying to compress half an hour's work into the fifteen minutes' stop of the long
express train. The day was so hot that even the group of idlers which usually formed the still
life of the picture was out of sight on the shady side of the buildings. Hackmen bustled noisily
about; baggage masters were busier and crosser than ever; there was the usual mêlée of leave-takings
and greetings. With the choking dust and scalding glare of the sun, the whole scene might have
been an anteroom to Tophet.

From the car window, Clement Moore, brown, hollow-cheeked, and clad in army blue, looked out
with weary eyes on all the confusion. Half asleep in the parching heat, visions of cool, green
forest depths, and endless ripple of leaves, of the ceaseless wash and sway of salt tides,
drifted across his brain, and rapt him out of the sick, comfortless present. But they vanished
like a flash with the sudden cessation of motion, and the reality of his surroundings came
back with a great shock. Captain George, coming in five minutes after with a glass of iced
lemonade in one hand and a half dozen letters in the other, found necessary so much of cheer
and comfort as lay in--

'Keep courage, Clement, old fellow, it's only a few hours longer now.'

And then he fell to reading his epistles, testifying his disapprobation of their contents presently
by sundry grunts, ending finally in a 'Confound it!' given explosively and an explanation:

'Too bad, Moore! Here am I taking you home to get well in peace and quiet, and Ellen has filled
the house up with half a dozen girls, more or less. Writes me to come home and be 'made a lion
of;' as sensible as most women!' And the grumble subsided. He broke out again shortly: 'Louise
Meller--Lois Berkeley--Susy--' the other names were drowned in the rattle of the starting train.
The captain finished his letters, and Clement Moore took up his broken dreams, but this time
with a new element.

Lois Berkeley. With the name came back a fortnight of the last summer--perfect bright days,
far-off skies filled with drifting fleets of sunny vapor, summer green piled deep over the
land, the gurgle of falling waters, the shimmer of near grain fields, deep-hued flowers glowing
in the garden borders, all the prodigality of splendor that July pours over the world. And
floating through these memories, scarce recognized, but giving hue and tone to them like a
far-off, half-heard strain of music--a woman's presence. By some fine, subtile harmony, such
as spirits recognize, all the summer glow and depth of color, as it came back to him, came
only as part of an exquisite clothing and setting for a slender figure and dark face. All the
dainty adaptations of nature were but an expression, in a rude, material way, for those elegances
and fitnesses which surrounded her, and which were as natural to her very existence as to the
birds and flowers. Only a fortnight, and in that fortnight every look and word of hers, every
detail of dress, even to the texture of the garments she wore, were indelibly fixed in his
memory. She was so daintily neat in everything, nothing soiled or coarse ever came near her.
Careless, too, he thought, remembering how, coming through the parlor in the evening dusk,
he had entangled himself in the costly crape shawl left trailing across a chair, of the gloves
he had picked up fluttering with the leaves on the veranda, and the handkerchiefs always lying
about. Perhaps Clement Moore was over critical in his fancies about ladies' dresses, and felt
that inner perfect cleanliness and refinement worked itself out in such little matters as the
material and color and fit of garments, and all the trifles of the toilet. A soiled or rumpled
article of attire showed a dangerous lack of something that should make up the womanly character.
He had not reduced all these unreasonable men's notions to a system by which to measure femininity.
He did not even know he had them. An excessive constitutional refinement and keenness of perception
made him involuntarily look for such scrupulous delicacy as belonging of course to every woman
he was thrown in contact with. He had always been disappointed, at first with a feeling of
half disgust with himself and others, that his dreams were so different from the reality. It
drove him apart from the sex, and gained him the reputation of being shy or ill natured. After
finding that disappointments repeated themselves, he accepted them as the natural order of
events, let his fancies go as the beau ideal that he was to seek for through life, and became
the polished, unimpressible man of society.

But this little Yankee girl had of a sudden realized his ideal. Something in their first meeting,
momentary though it was, and strange according to conventional notions, struck the chord in
his heart that was waiting silent for the magic fingers that knew the secret of waking it.
If he had fancied that those fingers would never come, or coming, never find it, that something
in his unhappy birth set him apart with that strange pain of yearning as his portion in life,
and so had tried to forget or choke the want under commonplace attachments and ties, he was
no worse than, nor different from, the rest of humanity. But all humanity does not meet trial
as unflinchingly and honorably--does not put temptation out of its way as purely and honestly
as did this undisciplined life. It is hard to take at once the path that duty orders: we linger
to play with possibilities, shed some idle tears, waste life before the necessity, and go back
to everyday work weakened and scarred and aching. And once or twice in a lifetime that black,
hopeless never drops down, not the less grievous and inexorable because simply a moral obligation.

Well, only babies cry for the moon. Anything clearly impossible and out of our reach we very
soon cease sighing for. Men do not cherish a passion which they recognize as utterly hopeless;
and Clement Moore, being a man, and moreover an honorable one, put this summer idyl out of
his head and heart with all despatch. 'All blundering is sin.' If he had blundered in allowing
it to take such hold of his life, he expiated the sin bravely. Sympathies bud and blossom with
miraculous quickness in this tropical atmosphere of affinity. He did not know till the excitement
of actual presence was over, and he had time to think soberly, in the dead blank and quiet
that followed, how it had grown to be a part of his very existence. But whether that part was
to be just a pleasant remembrance through the dusty and hot years before him, or whether it
was to go deeper and wring his heart with bitterest sense of loss, he did not quite realize.
At any rate there was a risk in dwelling on it. He had no more right to be running that risk
than he had to be trifling with a cup of deadliest poison; and so he shut away all the golden-winged
fancies that had sprung into life with those long, fervid days. Shut them away and sealed their
prison place. If they were dead, or pleading for freedom in his still moments, he never asked
nor thought. He came back from his lounging summer trip with a certain new, strange drive of
purpose in him never seen before. The many events that had crowded themselves into the next
year did not smother his prisoners. He never saw their corpses or thought of them sneeringly,
and by that sign knew they existed still. But dust and all the desolation of desertion gathered
about the hidden chamber that he never recurred to now. Still he kept away from its neighborhood;
at first setting a guard of persistent physical action. He was always reading or writing or
going somewhere with a kind of hidden, misty aim in his most objectless journeys. After--as
the necessity for such occupation wore away, and he lapsed back into the old listless ways
of dreaming--his thoughts were always busy with the future; never now did he indulge in those
wayward dreams of old. They had a dangerous tendency to take a certain forbidden way. Finally,
this self-control became a habit, and he scarcely felt its necessity. The 'might have been'
never came back more poignantly than as a vague, shadowy regret, that gave everything a slightly
flat and unpalatable taste. But he did not take life any less fully, or with any abatement
of whatever earnestness was in him.

Men are not patient under sickness, at least not that unquestioning, unresisting patience which
most women and the lower animals show. These especially who are usually well and robust are
a trial to the flesh and spirit of those about them. Moore was not the wonderful exception.
His first few weeks in the hospital were not so bad; but when the actual racking pain was over,
and nothing remained but that halting of the physical machinery to which we never give a thought
during perfect action--the weakness hanging leaden weights to every limb, the unwonted nervousness
and irritability, the apparently causeless necessity for inaction--he was anything but a resigned
man. Captain George, getting his furlough and carrying him off, was blessed from the deepest
heart of the ward nurses. He had a kind of feeling that this his first illness was a matter
in which the universe should be concerned, and with that fretful self-exaggeration came that
other unutterable yearning that attends the first proof that we are coheirs with others to
the ills flesh is heir to, weary homesickness and childish desire for sympathy.

So now, weakened physically with that strange new heartsickness, paralyzing his will and giving
freer scope to is feverish impatience, George's careless words had rolled away the stone from
the sepulchre, and its prisoners were free. Not dead, not having lost a shade of color from
their wings, they nestled and gleamed through his heart, filling the summer day with just such
intangible perfect witchery as those other days had been full of. Perhaps, too, time and absence
had heightened the charm. Imagination has such a way of catching up little scenes and words
and looks, and, without altering one of the facts, haloing them with such a golden deceptive
atmosphere, adding, day by day, faintest touches, that they grow by and by into a something
wholly different. So that fortnight came back to him, an illuminated poem, along rich strains
of music, making every nerve thrill with the pleasure-pain of its associations.

And by degrees, as the tide of sensation, thinned itself, lying back with closed eyes, while
the long train swept on through the torrid day, separate pictures came before his inner sight.
Just as keen and clear were they as when they first fell on his vision. He had not blurred
nor dimmed their outlines with frequent recalling and suggestions of difference.

A narrow strip of gray sand, ribbed with the wave wash to the very foot of the reddish brown
bowlders that bounded it. Standing thereon a slender woman's figure, clad in quiet gray. The
face was turned toward him--a dark, unflushed face, with calm, fixed mouth, and clear gray
eyes under straight-drawn brows and long, separate, lashes. Fine, lustreless, silky hair was
pushed back into a net glittering with shining specks under the narrow-brimmed straw hat. A
face full of a waiting look, not hopeful nor expectant, simply unsettled and watchful, yet
fresh, and rounded with the dimples and childlike curves of eighteen. Whatever of yearning
and unrest the years had brought lingered only about the shadowy eyes and fine mouth. There
were no haggard nor worn outlines, and a baby's skin could not have been softer and finer.

At her feet crisped the shining ripples of the incoming tide. Far beyond, calm and burnished,
stretched the summer sea into the dreamy distance, where the white noon sky, stricken through
with intensest light and heat, dropped down a palpitating arch to meet it. And in all the dazzle
of blue and white and silver and bare shining gray, she stood, a straight, slender, haughty
little figure, as indefinite of color as all the rest; all but a narrow strip of scarlet at
her throat, falling in a flaming line to her waist. The shimmering atmosphere seemed to pant
about her; and through the high noon, over the still waters and sleeping shore, hummed the
peering strains of a weird little song. Deep in a crimson couch and haloed with the last brightness,
lay the long, white outlines of a reclining figure. A handful of Japan lilies burned against
the pure drapery, and another handful of tea violets lay crushed in the fleecy handkerchief
on the floor. Against the cushions the exquisite contour of the sleeping face showed plainly.
Coolest quiet sphered the whole figure; not a suggestion of anything but slowest calm grace
disturbed its repose. But with the hushing rustle of leaves with the summer murmur flowing
in, seemed to come also the deep monotone of the waves, when this inanimate statue was striking
out at his side through the rattle and rush of the surf, the wide eyes filled with fierce light,
the whole face fixed and stern with the strain of heart muscle, toward the helpless shape shooting
out on the undertow. He had not seen her after, and, coming to seek her that night with words
of compliment and thanks, he was met by this white vision that had absorbed all the fire and
force of the afternoon into its blankness.

A depot platform--long afternoon shadows fell over the pretty country station--standing alone
in the woods. The small, temporary bustle about the waiting train was not discordant with the
dreamy, restful look of the whole picture. Then the culminating hurry, the shriek and rattle
of the starting train--a little figure poising itself for an instant on the car step--a face
flushed a little, and dark eyes brightened with a flash of surprised recognition--a quick gesture
of greeting and farewell, and then she was gone into the purple shades of evening.

Once again he had seen her, but from afar off, in the glare and heat of a crowded assembly
room. The face was a little thinner now, and the eyes were looking farther away than ever.
The blood-red light of rubies flashed in the soft lace at her throat and wrists, and dropped
in glittering pendants against the slender neck. She was talking evidently of a brilliant bouquet
of pomegranates and daphnes that lay in her lap, swinging dreamily the dainty, glittering white
fan. And while he looked, she drew away the heavy brocade she wore, from under a careless tread--a
slight, slow motion, wholly unlike the careless sweeps of other women. The imperious nature
that thrilled her even to the tips of the long fingers, manifested itself, as inborn natures
always do, under the deepest disguises, in just this unconscious, most trifling of acts; and,
remembering the gesture, he asked, with words far lighter than the tone or feeling:

'As much of a princess as ever?'

And Captain George answered:

'As much of a princess!' both unmindful that no word had been spoken to token who was in the
thought of each.

Very trifling things these were to remember. Very likely he had seen scores of far more graceful
and memorable scenes; but just these trifles, coming back so vividly, proved to him, as nothing
else could have done, with what a keen, intense sympathy every word and look of hers had been
noted.

The spoken words roused him. In the ride that followed, twenty different persons and things
came into their talk; but never once the princess. That, arousing himself again from his half-dreamful
lapse from the old guarded habit, was put away steadily and quietly. His battle had been fought
once. He was not to weaken his victory with fancies of the 'might have been.' He had not been
tempted, through all these months; he would not tempt himself, now that real trial was so near
at hand. Man as he was, if escape had been possible, he would have fled. But there was nothing
to do but to go forward, and he called up that old, mighty, intangible safeguard of honor.
The matter was settled beyond any question of surprise--he must avoid the long, sapping days
of contact, the wasting, feverish yearnings of absence coming after.

Flying over miles and miles of the summer land, heaped with the red tangled sweets of clover
fields, belted with white starry mayweed, blue with marshy growth of wild flag, with hazy lines
of far-off hills, fading into purple depths of distance, and near low ones lying green and
calm close beside them, with brown clear brooks, famous trout streams, after the New England
fashion, went running across their way, the old home pride leaped up in George's eyes and voice,
and even Moore forgot his weariness, and talked with a flash of the old, careless spirit.

The hack that brought them to their destination left them, deep in the summer night, at the
foot of the long avenue of elms--going up which, with slow steps, on a sudden the house broke
on them, ablaze with lights, athrob with music, whereat there was a renewal of explosive utterances,
and the captain led his friend to the rear of the house to insure a quiet entrance.

From the dark piazza, where he waited while George summoned some one to receive them, he caught,
through the long, open casement, the vista of the parlors, with their glitter and confusion
of light drapery and glimpses of bright faces and light forms, and softened hum of voices,
as the dancers circled with the music. And through it all, straight down toward him, floating
in one of the weird Strauss waltzes, came the princess, swathed in something white, airy, wide-falling.
The same dark, unflushed face, the same wide, far-looking eyes, and fixed mouth, the same silky
falling hair, but cut short now, and floating back as she moved. It was only for a moment:
the perfumed darkness that seemed to throb with a sudden life of its own, the great, slow,
summer stars above him, the wailing, passionate music that came trembling out among the heavy
dew-wet foliage, the dark, calm earth about him, and the light and color and giddy motion that
filled the gleaming square before him, struck in on his senses with staggering force; and then
she swayed out of his sight, and Mrs. Morris came forward with words of cheer and welcome.

That night, lying sleepless after the music was hushed and the wheels had done rolling away
from the door, as if material enough for all fever fancies had not been given, backward and
forward through the corridor a woman's garments trailed with light rustle, and a low voice
hummed brokenly the waltz he had heard. His wound, aggravated by fatigue, racked him with renewed
pain; and when that was over, vitality was at too low an ebb for anything but the most passive
quiet. Before listless, unnoting eyes drifted the crystal mornings, the golden hours steeped
deep in summer languors, the miracles of sun-settings and star-filled holy nights. From his
window he saw and heard always the ocean, blue and calm, lapping the shore with dreamy ripple
in bright days--driving ghostly swirls of spray and fog clown the beach in stormy, gray ones.
The house itself seemed set in the deepest haunt of summertime. Great trees, draped in the
fullest growth of the year, rippled waves of green high about it. All day long the leaf sounds
and leaf shadows came drifting in at the windows. Perfectest hush and quiet wrapped its occasional
faint strains of music, or chime of voices came up to him, but did not break the silence. A
place for a well soul to find its full stature, for a tired or sick one to gather again its
lost forces. And by slow degrees the life held at first with so feeble a grasp came back to him.

By and by there came a day when, from his balcony, he witnessed a departure, full of girls'
profuse adieux, and then the hush of vacancy fell on the wide halls and airy rooms of the great
house. That evening, with slow steps, he came down the staircase. In the twilight of the parlors
showed dimly outlined a drift of woman's drapery, and the piano was murmuring inarticulately.
Outside, on the broad stone doorstep, showed another drift, resolving itself into the muslins
of Miss Nelly Morris, springing up with glad words of welcome as his unsteady frame came into
view. Before half the protracted and vehement hand shaking was over, Moore turned at a soft
rustle behind him, and Nelly found her introduction forestalled. Moore hoped, with his courtliest
reverence, that Miss Berkeley had not forgotten him.

She made two noiseless steps forward, and put out a small, brown band. He took it in his left,
with a smiling glance of apology at the sling-fettered right arm. It was not often that Miss
Berkeley's broad lids found it worth their while to raise themselves for such a wide, clear
look as they allowed with the clasp. And then Nelly broke in:

'Then you two people know each other. Grand! And I've been wondering these two weeks what to
do with you! Why didn't you tell me, Leu?'

'How was I to identify Mr. Moore with 'George's friend from the army'? Mr. Moore remembers
he was on debatable ground last summer.'

Her soft, slow speech fell on his hearing like the silver ripple of water, clear and fine cut,
but without a bit of the New England incisiveness of tone that filled his delicate Southern
ear with slight, perpetual irritation.

'But I've made my calling and election sure at last. I was transformed into a mudsill and Northern
hireling last spring.'

'In spite of the transformation, I recognized you as soon as you spoke. I was not quite willing
to be forgotten, you see, by any one who wore the glorifying army cloth.'

They were out on the veranda now. Nelly was gazing with pitiful eyes at the sleeve fastened
away, while the wasted left hand drew forward a great wicker chair into the circle of the moonlight.
He caught the look:

'Not so very bad, Miss Nelly; not off, you see, only useless for the present;' and he took
a lowly seat at her side, near the princess's feet.

'You are guiltless of shoulder straps. You might have obtained a commission, I think. Why didn't
you, I wonder,' she said speculatively.

'Because I knew nothing of military matters, for one thing, and hadn't the assurance to take
my first lesson as lieutenant or captain.'

Miss Berkeley's white lids lifted themselves again.

'More nice then wise, sir. Others do it,' was Nelly's comment.

'Yes, but I haven't forgotten the old copy-book instructions, 'Learn to obey before you command,'
and began at the beginning. I've taken the first step toward the starred shoulder straps'--he
wore the corporal's stripes--' and am hopeful.'

'You'll never attain to them, you lazy Southron. Tell as about your camp life.'

'There's very little to tell. Drill, smoke, loaf--begging your pardon for the rough expression
of a rough fact--drill again. As one day is, so is another; they're all alike.'

'Well, tell us about your getting wounded, then, and the fight. George will not get wounded
himself, in spite of my repeated requests to that effect.'

And so Moore fought his battle over again, in the midst of which Miss Berkeley dropped out
of the talk, folded some soft brilliant net over her light dress, and went down the walk leading
to the shore, and he did not see her again that night.

After that he spent much of his time below stairs. Much alone; there were walks and rides in
which he could take no part. Despite of George's prediction, he had peace and quiet, and gathered
strength hourly. Whatever of graciousness he had seen or fancied in Miss Berkeley's manner
in that first unexpected meeting had all vanished. A subtile, unconquerable something shut
her out from all friendliness of speech or action. She went about the house in her slow, abstracted
way, or in her other mood, with sudden darting motions like a swallow, or dreamed all day beside
the summer sea, coming back browner and with mistier looks in her gray eyes, but always alone
and unapproachable. So that in half a dozen days he had not received as many voluntary sentences
from her.

But one morning the clouds had gathered black and heavy. The sea fogs had pitched their tents
to landward, and their misty battalions were driving gray across the landscape. Dim reaches
of blank water--lay beyond, weltering with an uneasy, rocking motion against the low, dark
sky. White, ghostly sea birds wheeled low, a fretful wind grieved about the house, and a New
England northeast storm was in progress. She was standing at the window, looking out with eyes
farther away than ever over the haze-draped sea. Some fine, heavy material, the same indistinct
hue as the day outside, fell about her in large, sweeping folds. A breath of sudden, penetrating
perfume struck across his senses as he approached her. 'And gray heliotrope!' he said; but
the heliotrope vanished as she turned and displayed the blaze of carnations at her throat,
and the gleam of crimson silk under the jaunty zouave.

'Lois Pearl Berkeley,' he read from the golden thimble he had nearly crushed under foot. He
half wondered if she would know what it was. He never saw her do anything. She was never 'engaged,'
nor in haste about any occupation. The perfect freedom from the universal Yankee necessity
of motion, with which the brown, small hands fell before her, was as thoroughly a part of her
as the strange Indian scent which clung to everything she touched, and sphered her like the
atmosphere of another world. He never could associate the idea of any kind of personal care-taking
with her dainty leisure, more than with the lilies of the field, though they never appeared
in as many graceful arrays as she.

'Yes, mine, thank you,' she said, and composedly dropped it into its place in the most orderly
of useless conglomerations of silken pockets and puzzling pigeon holes. He watched her fingers,
and then looked back at her.

'Lois--such an odd name for you--such a quaint, staid Puritan name.'

'And I am neither quaint nor staid nor Puritan. Thank you. Yes, my mother must have had recollections
of her New England home strong on her when she gave it me, down on the Louisiana shores. It
always sounded even to me a little strange and frigid among such half-tropical surroundings.'

As she spoke a sudden pang of utter weariness and longing seized him. A rush of the boyish
malady of homesickness, concentrated from all the dreary months of his long absence, and none
the less poignant because it was involuntary. The wide, cool, shadowy halls of his mother's
house, always aglow with blossoms and haunted with their odors, all the superficial lotus-charm
of Southern life--and he had lived it superficially enough to catch all its poetry rose before
him. It caught away his breath and choked sudden tears into his eyes. Came and went like a
flash--for before she had done speaking a sudden new bond of sympathy put away the stranger
forevermore, and he was no longer alone.

'Then you are Southern born too,' he said, with a quick step forward, and involuntarily outstretched
hand. Hers dropped into it.

'Yes, I am hardly acclimated yet. I shiver under these pale Northern skies from August till
June. O my Louisiana, you never made 'life a burden' with such dark, chill days, and sobbing,
cruel winds!' She turned to the windows. A sudden uncontrollable quaver of impatience and longing
ran through her speech and hurried the words with unusual vehemence.

'I thought you must have liked the day, since you robed yourself in its haze and mist.' He
laid his hand lightly on her gray drapery with reverent touch.

'And I thought my carnations would redeem that. Since they didn't--'and she tossed the whole
bright, spicy handful on the table.

In a vase on the mantle, gray, passionate, odorous blooms were massed loosely about a cluster
of fragile, intense day lilies, and a dash of purple and crimson trailed with the fuchsias
over its edge, and gleamed up from the white marble ledge. He went to the vase, shook out the
fuchsias, and laid the residue in her lap.

'Heliotrope, finally,' he said.

She brushed it lightly away with a half shudder.

'Not that. I don't like heliotrope. Its perfume is heart-breaking, hopeless. It belongs in
coffins, about still, dead faces. If it had a voice, we should hear continual moans. It would
be no worse than this, though.'

'You will wear the lilies then, unless the heliotrope scent clings to them too,' he said, gathering
up the obnoxious flowers.

'Yes, if it doesn't jar your ideal to see them worn against such a stormy day dress. To me
they are the perfection of summer. No color could be more intense than this spotless whiteness.
There!' Fastening them, the brittle stems snapped, and the flowers fell at her feet. 'No flowers
for me to-day, of your choosing at least. Practically, lilies have such an uncomfortable way
of breaking short off.'

A broad, bright ribbon lay drawn through 'Charles Anchester' on the table. She knotted it carelessly
at her throat.

'That will do for the now; but, O my carnations, how your mission failed!' hovering over them
a minute.

'Then you are not satisfied with the New England mean of perfection, in everything, mentally,
morally, and meteorologically?' going back to the weather again.

'Satisfied! I'd exchange this whole pale summer for one hour of broad, torrid noonlight. Deep,
far-off tropical skies, great fronds of tropical foliage, drawing their sustenance from the
slowest, richest juices of nature, gorgeous depths of color blazing with the very heart of
the sun, deep, intoxicating odors poured from creamy white or flaming flower chalices, and
always the silver-sprayed wash of the blue sea. I remember that of my home. It is months and
months since I have seen a magnolia or jasmine.'

Fate sent Miss Morris to the parlor just then, luckily enough, perhaps, and the first dash
of rain from the coming storm struck the windows sharply. Miss Berkeley shivered; a gray shadow
swept up over her face, and absorbed all the gleam and unrest. She moved off with her book
to a window; shut herself out from the room, and into the storm, with a heavy fall of curtains;
and Nelly's voice rippled through a tripping, Venetian barcarole.

It stormed all the next day, and when twilight came, it rained still with desperation. A narrow
sphere of light from the flame low down in its alabaster shade held the piano, and through
the warm scented gloom that filled the rest of the parlor thrilled echoing chords. Moore, coming
in, stopped in the dimness to listen. A troubled uncertainty made itself felt through the strains,
a sudden discordant crash jarred through the room, and the performer rose abruptly. He came
forward.

'O my prophetic soul, magnolias!' said Nelly, from her lounge, just outside the lighted circle.

It had just come from him, the light, exquisite basket he held filled with great, pink, flushed
magnolia blooms. Nelly raved in most fashionably extravagant adjectives. Lois looked at it
with hungry eyes, but motionless and speechless. He laid it before her on the table, and turned
away. She stood for a moment looking gravely down on it, then buried her face among the cool
petals with a sudden caressing motion. Looking up again shortly, 'Thank you,' she said simply
to the giver chatting carelessly.

A broad illumination flooded the other end of the parlor a minute after, and the chess board
came into requisition. If Miss Morris found little skill necessary to discomfit her opponent,
and wondered thereat, she could not see, as he saw, a dark face, bowed on tropic blooms, flushed
with unwonted glad color, lips apart and aquiver, wide eyes lustrous with purple light, shining
through the tears that gathered in them.

Then the piano began, played dreamily, irregularly, with slender, single threads of tune, and
frequent pauses, as if the preoccupied mind let the listless fingers fall away from the keys.
They gathered up finally all the broken strains into a low, slow-moving harmony. Through it
Moore heard the soft lap of waves, the slow rock of Pacific tidal swells, flowing and ebbing
and flowing again through flaming noons, about half-submerged bits of world, palm-shaded, sun-drenched,
or swaying white with moonlight under purple midnights, holy with the clear burning stars:
heard the gurgle and ripple of falling streams, deepening into the wide flow of mighty rivers,
bearing in their calm sweep the secrets of a zone--of ice-choked springs, of the dead stillness
of Northern forests, and the overgrowth, and passionate life of endless summers.

The red and white combatants now held truce over a queen check, while the players sat silent,
listening.

Suddenly, through the murmur and rhythmic flow of water sounds, struck shrill and sharp the
opening strains of a march--not such marches as mark time for dainty figures crowding ballroom
floors, but triumphant, cruel, proud, with throbbing drum-beat--steadying the tramp of weary
feet over red battle fields. Its unswerving hurry, its terrible, calm excitement, brought before
his vision long blue lines--the fixed faces sterner than death, with steady eyes and quickened
breath--the nervous clutch of muskets, as the rattle of small arms and boom of cannon came
nearer and nearer, the fluttering silken banners, the calm sunshine, and sweet May breath--and
the quick, questioning note of a meadow lark dropped down through the silence of the advancing
column. As the maddening music stormed and beat about him, his heart throbbed audibly, and
the rushing currents of his fiery Southern blood sounded in his ears. Honor, prudence, resolution,
everything was swept away in the lava tide of excitement. Before him he saw the crown of his
life. All heaven and all earth should not stop him short of it. He rose and began crossing
the room, with heavy, resolute tread. In the dimness, the player was hardly visible; he would
assure himself of her mortality at least. A sudden, fierce hunger for sight and touch thrilled him.

Midway he stopped. The music dropped with a shock from its fiery enthusiasm. Was it only an
echo, or an army of ghosts crossing a dim field, long since fought over--the steady tramp,
tramp, the pendulum of time? Unutterably wailing, pitiful, it sent plaintive, piercing cries
up to the calm, dead heavens. All the fearful sights he had seen rose before him. Upturned
lay faces calm in death as in a child's sleep, with all camp roughnesses swept away in that
still whiteness; strong men's, with that terrible scowl of battle or the distortion of agonized
death on them--mangled and crushed forms--all the wreck of a fought battle, terrible in its
suggestive pathos. It sank away into the minor of water voices, soft, monotonous, agonizing
in its utter passivity, a brilliant arpeggio flashed up the keys like a shower of gold, and
Miss Berkeley rose with white face and trembling breath, and Nelly was alone in the room, sobbing
nervously in her armchair.

The storm passed that night, with great swayings of trees, and dash of broad raindrops, and
piled up broken masses of fleecy white clouds, tossed about by the rough, exultant September
wind. Bright days followed, mellowing with each one to sunnier, calmer perfection. Moore passed
them in his own room. That night had torn away all the disguises that he had put upon his heart.
He knew now that he loved this woman--knew it with such a bitter sense of humiliation as such
proud spirits writhe under when honor turns traitor and betrays them to the enemy. 'Lead us
not into temptation.' If it meant anything in the old habit of child's prayer which clung to
him yet, it meant that he should put himself out of its way, since he had proved himself too
weak to meet it. His inborn honesty let him build no excuses for his failure. He saw, and acknowledged
with a flush of scorn and curling lip, his own treachery to himself in his hour of need. That
he had not committed himself--that his self-betrayal was only known to self--was no merit of
his--simply a circumstance. And circumstances seemed mighty in their influence upon him, he
thought, with a feeling of deepest contempt. All pride and self-reliance were taken out of
him. Absence, at least, would be a safeguard, since it would render harmless such impulses
as those of that night. However much he might sin in yearning, she; should never know, never
be exposed to the risk of being drawn into his guilt and pain. He had come at last to the place
where all the old delicate pride was merged in the one anxious fear that she should suffer.
He would go away the next day; he would not see her again--never see her voluntarily--putting
away fiercely the sudden pang of yearning: not that he came at once to such a conclusion.

Honor, pride, self-respect, having failed him once, were not easily recalled to their allegiance.
His was no feeble nature, to sin and repent in an hour. He fought over every inch of his way,
and came out at last conqueror, but scarred and weary and very weak in heart, and distrustful
of himself.

They had gone to ride that afternoon--he had seen them drive away. He would go down and make
the necessary arrangements for his departure. And so it happened that he stood an hour before
sunset in the parlor. A sudden heart sickness drove the blood from his lips with the wrench
of remembrance. It did not strengthen him to meet her, cool and royal, in filmy purple, putting
out her hand with frank friendliness, and with a new quaver of interest in her voice. Those
fatal magnolias: all the outside world seemed pressing nearer these two strangers in a strange
land.

'How pale you are! You have been ill again.'

'No,' he said, almost harshly. 'You like tiger lilies,' lifting a stem crowded with the flaming
whirls.

'Like them? yes--don't you? As I like the fiery, deafening drum-roll and screaming fife, and
silver, sweet bugle-calls. Think where they found these wide, free curves of outline--that
flaming contrast of color. Indian skies have rounded over them, Indian suns poured their fervor
into their hearts. In the depth of forest jungles the velvet-coated tiger has shaken off their
petals--glittering, deadly cobras crushed them in their slow coils; gorgeous-winged birds and
insects swept them in their flight.'

Some new mental impulse sent a rare, faint flush to the olive cheeks, and filled the uplooking
clear eyes with light. This purple-clad shape, with fiery nasturtiums burning on the breast
and filling the air with their peculiar odor, with the barbaric splendor of tiger lilies reflecting
their lurid glare about her as she stood, bore no more likeness to the ordinary haughty woman
than fire to snow. He would have liked to have crowned her with pomegranate blossoms--have
dropped the silvery sheen of ermine under her feet, and have knelt there to worship.

She moved away impatiently, trailed her noiseless drapery through the room once or twice, and
came back to the window, where he stood looking out. Before them lay the sea, calm in a sheen
of blue, gathering faint amethystine vapors, that the sunset would light up in a miracle of
bronze and purple and rose.

'You should have been with us last night! A soft, rushing south wind filled all the air with
whispers, and drew up a veil of lace round the horizon, very high up in the east. Stars were
few; the new moon dropped tender, faint beams down into the gray mist and grayer water that
broke in ripples of white fire against the dark in the west, and mingled with the mystery in
the east. I want to go again. Mr. Moore, I can manage a boat; will you go with me?'

With every minute he saw his hard-earned victory slipping away. With every minute his reeling
sense lost foothold in the strange, new fascination of her excited presence. Will rallied to
a last effort; he muttered some broken excuse, that she must have thought an assent, for she
dropped a soft, white, clinging shawl over her shoulders, slipped the tie of the jaunty hat
beneath her chin, and he could only follow her as she slid through the flicker of shade and
sunshine down to the beach, where the summer sea washed lazily.

Low in the west and northwest lay piled ominous clouds; white, angry thunder heads began showing
themselves.

'A grand sunset for to-night, and a shower perhaps. We shall be back before it breaks.'

A small boat--a frail thing of white and gilding--floated at anchor. Lois shook out the sail
in her character of manager, seated herself at the helm, and they drifted out. No word was
spoken; the light in her eyes grew brighter and brighter; the scarlet curves of her mouth more
and more intense. Sitting with face turned away from the west, she did not see, as he did,
the rising blackness. The wind freshened, skimming in fitful gusts over the waves, and the
little craft flung off the spray like rain. Away off in the shadow of the cloud the water was
black as death, a faint line of white defining its edge. Was she infatuated? As for him, he
grew very calm, with a kind of desperation. Better to die so, with her face the last sight
on earth--his last consciousness her clinging arms, sinking down to the dark, still caverns
beneath--than to live out the life that lay before him. He leaned forward and looked over into
the green depths of the sea. Sunshine still struck down in rippling lines, a golden network.
Soft emerald shadows hung far down, breaking up into surface rifts of cool dimness as the waves
swung over them.

Her hat had fallen back; her whole face was alive with a proud, exultant delight in the exhilarating
motion. Higher and higher rose the veil of cloud, and the blackness in the water was creeping
toward them. Sea birds wheeled low about them, with their peculiar quavering cry, and a low
swell made itself felt. Miss Berkeley turned her head; a sudden look of affright blanched her
face to deadliest whiteness. A hand's breadth of clear sky lay beneath the sun, and down after
them, with the speed of a racer, came that great black wave. Before it the blue ripples shivered
brightly; behind it the angry water tossed and seethed. In its bosom, lurid, phosphorescent
lights seemed to flit to and fro. Its crest was ragged and white with dashes of foam. She took
in the whole in a second's glance, and made a movement to bring the boat's head up to the wind.
As the white face turned toward him, a quick instinct of self-preservation seized him, and
he sprang up to lower the sail. Something caught the halliards. His left arm was of little
service; his right hung useless at his side. She reached forward--one hand on the tiller--to
help him. The rim of the storm slipped up over the sun--a sudden flaw struck them--the rudder
flew sharp round, wrenched out of her slight hold--the top-heavy sail caught the full force
of the blow, surged downward with a heavy lurch, and the gale was on them. A great blow, and
swift darkness, then fierce currents rushing coldly past him; strange, wild sounds filling
his ears; and when his vision cleared itself, he saw Lois, unimpeded by her light drapery,
striking out for the sunken ledge, half a dozen yards away, over which the spray was flying
furiously. He ground his teeth with impatience as his nerveless arm fell helpless; but he reached
her side at last. A narrow shelf, with barely sufficient standing room for two. Great, dark
waves, with strange lights flashing through them, whirled blinding deluges high above their
heads, as he held her close. With the instinct of the weaker toward the stronger, she grasped
and clung to him; and the fierce exultation that thrilled through his veins with actual contact,
made him strong as a giant. And then, close on the gale, came the rain, beating down the waves
with its heavy pour. In the thunder and tramp of the storm no human voice could have made itself
audible, if speech had been needed.

The storm passed as suddenly as it had risen. Through a rift in the clouds a dash of blood-red
light burst over the troubled waters, and with it a sudden quiet fell about them. They were
to have their 'grand sunset' finally.

'We are too far from the mainland to reach it without help; no boats are likely to pass this
way after this storm; the tide is at its lowest now; it rises high over this ledge.'

In his quiet voice a half-savage triumph made itself heard. This near-coming fate, that he
believed inevitable, put away completely all claims of that world that lay behind him--shut
out everything but their own individuality. Time had narrowed to a point; all landmarks were
swept away.

Miss Berkeley's face had lost none of its whiteness; but the pallor was not of fear. The great
eyes burned star-like, and the mouth was like iron. She looked up as his even tones fell on
her ear. Something in his gaze fixed hers; through fearless, unveiled eyes, the soul looked
straight out to his. What he saw there dazzled and blinded him. He caught her up to his heart
suddenly and fiercely. His lips crushed hers in a long, clinging kiss, that seemed to drink
up her very life. For them, the brightness that for others is dissipated over long years of
the future, was concentrated into the single intense moment of the present--this one moment,
that seemed to burst into bud and blossom, the fruition of a lifetime. The sky lifted away
and poured down fuller floods of light; the air vibrated with strange, audible throbs. When
he released her, she did not move away. Never again, though they lived out a century, could
the past be quite what it had been before; through it they had come to this, the crowning perfection
of their lives. Through the future would run the memory of a caress in which--she was not a
woman who measured her gifts--she had dissolved all the hope and promise of that future for
him. Desperation was no small element in the whirl. Only into the eternities could he carry
the now pure and loyal. It had nothing to do with time; only through the shadow of the coming
death had he attained to it.

The fancy that had always haunted him with her peculiar name and dainty presence, prompted
the 'Marguerite!'

She was not a woman to whom people give pet names. A rested, loving smile gleamed over her
face, and her lips sought his again.

'My darling!'

'Mine!' and then time drifted on, unbroken by the speech which would have jarred the new, perfect
harmony. Neither thought--the life currents that had met so wildly and suddenly, left space
in their full, disturbed flow, for just the one consciousness of delirious, satisfying love.
While the fiery sunset paled, he held the little drenched figure close, her warm breath flowing
across his cheek.

Out of the gathering dimness shoreward, came a hail. It struck him with an icy chill that death
could never have brought. She raised her head, listening. The longing and temptation to hold
her to his breast, and sink down through the green, curling waves, came back stronger than
ever. Only so could he hope to keep her. That inexorable future of time reaching out to grasp
him back again, would put them apart so hopelessly. His voice was hoarse--broken up with the
heart wrench.

'Marguerite, will you die here with me, or go back again to the life that will separate us?'

She did not understand him. Why should she? Did she not love him, and he her? and what could
come between them? For her a future burst suddenly into hope with that faint call. In it lay
untried, unfathomable sources of happiness.

Another breathless kiss--this time crowded with the agony of a parting for him--and then, as
the hail came again, nearer and more distinct, the white shawl, that still clung about her,
floated in the air as a signal.

They lifted her into the rescuing boat shortly, white and breathless, and wrapped her in heavy
shawls. Not senseless, lying against his breast, the dark eyes opened once to meet his, and
the pallid face nestled a little closer to its resting place. He could not tell if the time
were long or short, before Nelly's voice broke on his ear.

'Only a comedy, instead of the tragedy which mother is arranging up at the house!'

The half-hysterical quaver broke into the woman's refuge of tears, and sobs with that; and
Moore gave up his burden to stronger arms.

'Up at the house,' Mrs. Morris, busied with her blazing fires and multitudinous appliances
for any stage of disaster, met them with the quiet tears that mothers learn to shed, and the
reverent 'Thank God!' that comes oftenest from mothers' lips.

And the bustle being over, he looked reality and duty straight in the face. The man was in
no sense a coward--flinch was not in him. He came out on the upper balcony two hours later,
with the face of a man over whom ten years more of life had gone heavily. A dozen steps away
sat Marguerite--the white heart of a softened glow of light. She came out at his call quiet
and stately, but with a kind of shy happiness touching eye and cheek with light and flame.
At sight of her, all the mad passion in his heart leaped up--a groan came in place of the words
he had promised himself. He strode away with heavy, hard footfalls. Not strange, since he was
trampling Satan and his own heart under his feet. He came back again, quickly, eagerly, as
a man forcing himself forward to a mortal sacrifice, who feels that resolution may fail. The
words that came finally were half a groan, half an imprecation, hissed through clenched teeth.

'Three years ago, a Louisiana lady promised to be my wife. She is not dead; the engagement
is not broken.'

There were no words beyond the plain statement of facts that he had any right to use--harsh
and brutal though they seemed. Seen in the earth-light that had broken on him with that rescuing
hail, he had acted the coward and villain. If she thought him so, he had no right to demur.

There was no need of other words. The eyes, after their first terrified glance, had fixed themselves
out on the night, and then the lids fell, and the wondering, stunned look changed slowly into
one of perfect comprehension. Not a muscle moved. The present, leaping forward, laid before
her the future, scorched and seared, beyond possibility of bloom again. She looked into it
with just the same attitude--even to the tapering fingers laid lightly on the railing--as five
minutes before she had dreamed over a land of promise. He, looking down on her white face--whiter
in the silver powder of the moonlight--saw a look of utter, hopeless quiet settle there--such
quiet as one sees in an unclosed coffin, such marble, impassive calm, neither reproachful nor
grieving, as covers deadly wounds--settle never again to rise till Death shall sweep it off.
Some lives are stamped at once and forever; and faces gather in an hour the look that haunts
them for a lifetime.

Then he knew that no one ever bears the consequences of a sin alone. On this woman, for whom
he would have gone to death, he had drawn down the curse. He was powerless to help her; all
that he could give--the promise of lifelong love and tenderness--was itself a deadly wrong--would
blast his life in giving, hers in receiving. In the minutes that he stood there, gazing into
her face, all the waves and billows of bitterest realization of helplessness went over his heart.

She turned to go away. 'Marguerite!' The man's despairing soul, his bitter struggles and failures,
atoned for in this last agony, made itself utterance in that one cry. She turned back, without
looking up; even his eager gaze could not force up the heavy lids. Then, with that sweet, miraculous
woman's grace of patience and pity, she put out her hand, and as he bowed his head over it,
touched her lips to his cheek with quick, light contact, and glided away.

Earliest morning shimmered lances of gray, ghostly light on the horizon, and across the sea
to the waiting shore. They struck grayest and ghostliest on a high balcony, where a woman's
figure crouched, swathed in damp, trailing drapery, with silky, falling hair about a still
face, and steadfast eyes that had burned just as steadfastly through the long hours gone by.
Great, calm stars, circling slowly, had slipped out of sight into the waves; the restless,
grieving ocean had swayed all night with heavy beat against the beach; mysterious whisperings
had stirred the broad summer leaves, heavy with dew and moonlight; faint night noises had drifted
up to her, leaving the silence unrippled by an echo; till the old moon dropped a wasted, blood-red
crescent out of sight, and the world, exhausted with the passion of the yearning night, shrouded
itself in the gloom and quiet that comes before the dawn.

To the watcher, who, with strained, unconscious attention, had taken in every change of the
night, the promise of the day came almost as a personal wrong. That the glare of the sunshine
should fall on her pain--that the necessity for meeting mere acquaintances with the same face
as yesterday should exist, now that her life lay so scorched and sere before her, filled her
with rebellious impatience.

But when, with the growing light, the first sounds of household waking came to her, she rose
wearily, and went, with tired, heavy steps to her own room. And Nelly, coming in half an hour
later, with an indefinite sense of uneasiness, found an older face than last evening's on the
pillow, with harder lines about the mouth, and with a wearier droop of the eyelids. The voice,
too, that answered her good morning, had a kind of echoing dreariness in it. But such traces
are not patent to many eyes or ears, and Nelly did not realize them.

There are a few women, mostly of this dark, slender type, who bear these wrenching heart agonies
as some animals bear extremest suffering of body--not a sound or struggle testifies to pain--receiving
blow after blow without hope or thought of appeal--going off by and by to die, or to suffer
back to life alone. Not much merit in it, perhaps--a passive, hopeless endurance of an inevitable
torture; but such tortures warp or shape a lifetime. Rarely ever eyes that have watched out
such a night see the sun rise with its old promise.

Clement Moore, coming slowly back to life after a fortnight of delirium, found the woods ablaze
with October, and Miss Berkeley gone. Another fortnight, and he was with his regiment. Captain
George--off on some scouting expedition--was not in camp to meet him. But stretched out on
the dry turf a night or two after, through the clash of the band on the hillside above broke
Captain George's sonorous voice, and straightway followed such a catalogue of questions as
dwellers in camps have always ready to propound to the latest comer from the northward. Concluding
finally with--

'And you didn't fall in love with 'the princess'?' Poor Captain George! The prodigious effort
ought to have kept the heart throb out of his voice, though it didn't. Moore's quick ear caught
it (sympathy has a wonderfully quickening effect on the perceptions sometimes), and he took
refuge in a truth that in no way touched the past few months--feeling like a coward and traitor
meanwhile, and yet utterly helpless to save either himself or his friend from coming evil.
Another item added to retributive justice.

'I thought you knew'--flashing the diamond on his hand in the moonlight--'somewhere beyond
the lines yonder a lady wears the companion to this--or did, last spring.'

And George's spirits rose immensely thereupon.

The old, miserable monotony of camp life began again. It wore on him, this machine-like existence,
this blind, unquestioning obedience, days and nights of purposeless waiting, brightened by
neither hope nor memory. He had hated it before; now he loathed it with the whole strength
of his unrestful soul. But it did him good. Brought face to face with his life, he met the
chances of his future like the man he was, and at last, out of the blackness end desolation,
came the comfort of conquering small, every-day temptations, more of a comfort than we are
willing to admit at first thought.

This bare, unbroken life cuts straight down to the marrow of a man. Stripped of all conventionalities,
individuals come out broadly. The true metal shows itself grandly in this strange, impartial
throwing together of social elements--this commingling on one level of all ranks and conditions
of men in the same broad glare of every-day trial, unmodified by any of society's false lights.
The factitious barriers of rank once broken over, all early associations, whether of workshop
or college, go for nought, or, rather, for what they are worth. The man gravitates to his proper
place, whether he makes himself known with the polished sentences of the school, or in terse,
sinewy, workman's talk. And through the months Moore learned to respect humanity as it showed
itself, made gentler to every one, driven out from himself, perhaps, by the bitterness and
darkness that centred in his own heart. It was a new phase of life for him, but he bated his
haughty Southern exclusiveness to meet it. Before, he had kept himself aloof as far as the
surroundings allowed from those about him--now, his never-failing good nature, his flow of
song and story, his untiring physical endurance, all upborne by a certain proud delicacy and
reticence, made him a general favorite. But he hailed as a relief the long, exhausting marches
that came after a while. Bodily weariness stood in the place of head or heart exercise, and
men falling asleep on the spot where they halted for the night, after a day in the clinging
Virginia mud, had little time for the noisy outbreaks that filled the evenings in days of inaction.
So he did his private's duty bravely, with cheery patience, relieving many a slender boy's
arms of his gun, helping many another with words of cheer as he slumped on at his side, always
with some device for making their dreary night-stops more endurable. Thanksgiving came and
went. George went home on furlough. Moore refused one, and ate the day's extra allowance of
tough beef and insipid rice with much fought-against memories of his New England festivals.
The winter went on. Christmas days came. The man's brown face was getting positively thinner
with homesick recollections of the Southern carnival. This brilliant, ready spirit, who never
grew sour nor selfish under any circumstances, actually spent two good hours, the afternoon
before Christmas day, in a brown study, and with a suspicious, tightened feeling in his throat,
and mistiness in his eyes. Coming in at nightfall from his picket duty, tired and hungry, Jim
Murphy, stretching his long length before the fire, rose on his elbow to find half a dozen
epistles he had brought down to camp that day.

'Yer letthers, Musther Moore.' Jim, even with his sudden accession of independence as an American
citizen, paid unconscious deference to the world-old subtile difference between gentleman and
'rough,' and used the title involuntarily.

He opened them sitting by the same fire, munching his hard tack as he read. Murphy, watching
him, saw his lips quiver and work over one bearing half a dozen postmarks--a letter from his
mother, conveyed across the lines by some sleight-of-hand of influence or pay, and mailed and
remailed from place to place, till weeks had grown into months since it was written. Noncommittal
as it had need to be--filled with home items to the last page--there his heart stood still,
to bound again furiously back, and his breath came sharp and hot. He rose blinded and staggering.
Jim Murphy, seeing how white and rigid his face had grown, came toward him, putting out his
hand with a dumb impulse of sympathy, not understanding how the shock of a great hope, springing
full grown into existence, sometimes puts on the semblance of as great a loss.

Private Moore's application for a furlough being duly made, that night was duly granted.

'Just in time--the last one for your regiment!' said the good-natured official, registering
the necessary items.

In another hour he was whirling away, and in early evening two days later he stepped out into
the clear moonlight and crisp air of a Northern city.

A New England sleighing season was at its height. The streets were crowded with swift-flying
graceful vehicles, the air ringing with bell music and chimes of voices. Out through the brilliant
confusion he went to the quiet square where the great trees laid a dark tracery of shadow upon
the snow beneath. No thought of the accidents of absence or company, or any of the chances
of everyday life, had occurred to him before. A carriage stood at the door. He almost stamped
with impatience till the door opened and he was admitted. The change to the warm, luxurious
gloom of the parlors quieted him a little, but he paced up and down with long strides while
he waited. The strong stillness that he had resolutely maintained was broken down now with
a feverish restlessness.

She came at length--it seemed to him forever first--with the rustle and shimmer of trailing
lengths of silk down the long room. A fleecy mist covered neck and arms, and some miracle of
a carriage wrapping lay white and soft about her face. She did not recognize him in the obscurity;
his message of 'a friend' had not betrayed him. But his voice, with its new, proud hopefulness,
its under vein triumphant and eager, struck her into a blinding, giddy whirl, in which voice
and words were lost. It passed in a moment, and he was saying, 'And I am free now--honorably
free--and have come where my heart has been, ever since that month on the seaside. Most gracious
and sovereign lady,'--he broke into sudden, almost mirthful speech, dropping on one knee with
a semblance of humility proved no mockery by the diamond light in the brown eyes and the reverent
throb that came straight from his voice.

She bent over him as he knelt, and drew her cool, soft hands across his forehead and down his
face, and her even, silvery syllables cut like death:

'Mr. Moore, last night I promised to marry your friend, Captain Morris.'

For the space of a minute stillness like the grave filled the room, and then all the intense
strain of heart and nerve gave way, as the bitter tide of disappointment broke in and rolled
over his future; and without word or sound he dropped forward at her feet.

She knelt down beside him with a low, bitter cry. It reached his dulled sense; he rose feebly.

'Forgive me; I have not been myself of late, I think; and this--this was so sudden,' and he
walked away with dull, nerveless tread.

On the table, near her, lay her handkerchief. It breathed of heliotrope. Her words came back
to him: 'Only in coffins, about still, dead faces.' He stopped in his walk and looked down
on her. Forever he should remember all that ghostly sheen of silvery white about a rigid face
with unutterably sad fixed mouth and drooping lids. He thrust the fleecy handful into his breast.

'I may keep this?' and took permission from her silence.

'Good-by;' the words came through ashy lips, a half sob. She knelt as impassive as marble,
as cold and white. He waited a moment for the word or look that did not come, turned away,
the hall door fell heavily shut, and he was gone.

Fifteen minutes after, Miss Berkeley was whirling to the house where she was to officiate as
bridesmaid, and where she was haughtier, and colder, and ten times more attractive than ever.

Private Moore, waiting for the midnight return train, found life a grim prospect.

Three weeks after, a summons came from the captain's tent. George had just returned from his
own furlough, and this was their first meeting. Even while their hands clasped, his new, happy
secret told itself.

'Congratulate me, Clement Moore! You remember Lois Berkeley? She has promised to be Lois Berkeley
Morris one day!' and, with happy lover's egotism, did not notice the gray shade about his hearer's
lips.

Various items of news followed.

'A truce boat goes over to-morrow,' remembering the fact suddenly; 'there will be opportunity
to send a few letters; so, if you wish to write to that lady 'beyond the lines'--

The voice that replied was thin and harsh:

'Miss Rose declined alliance with a 'Yankee hireling,' and was married last October.'

Honest George wrung his friend's hand anew, and heaped mental anathemas on his own stupidity
for not seeing how haggard and worn the dark face had grown--anathemas which were just enough,
perhaps, only he hardly saw the reason in quite the right light. But he spared all allusions
to his own prospects thereafter, and finding that Moore rather avoided than sought him, measured
and forgave the supposed cause by his own heart.

At length came a time when a new life and impulse roused into action even that slowly moved
great body, the officers of the Potomac Army, and that much-abused and sorely tried insignificant
item, the army itself. On every camp ground reigned the confusion of a flitting. All the roads
were filled with regiments hurrying southward, faces growing more and more hazard with fatigue
and privation, weak and slender forms falling from the ranks, cowards and traitors skulking
to the rear, till at length on the banks of the river stood an army, hungry, footsore, marchworn,
but plucky, and ready for any service that might be required of them, even if that service
were but to 'march up the hill and then march down again'--what was left of them.

An atom in the moving mass of blue, Clement Moore shared the pontoon crossing, was silent through
the storms of cheers that greeted each regiment as they splashed over and up the bank, and,
drawn up in line of battle at last, surveyed the field without a pulsation of emotion. Other
men about him chafed at the restraint; he stood motionless, with eyes a thousand miles away.
And when the advance sounded, and the line started with a cheer, no sound passed his lips.
A half-unconscious prayer went up that he might fall there, and have it over with this life
battle, that had gone so sorely against him. He moved as in a dream. The whirl and roar of
battle swept around and by him; he charged with the fiercest, saw the blue lines reel and break
only to close up and charge again, took his life in his hand a dozen times, and stood at length
with the few who held that first line of rifle pits, gazing in each other's faces in the momentary
lull, and wondering at their own existence. Then came a shock, shivers of red-hot pain ran
through every nerve, and then--blissful, cool unconsciousness. Captain George, galloping by,
with the red glare of battle on his face, saw the fall, and halted. A half dozen ready hands
swung the body to his saddle. For a little the tide of battle eddied away, and in the comparative
quiet, George tore down the hill to a spring bubbling out under the cedars.

The darkness that wrapped the wounded man dissolved gradually. The thunder and crash of guns,
the mad cheers, the confusion of the bands withdrew farther and farther, and drifted away from
his failing senses. He was back in his Southern home; the arm under his head was his mother's;
and he murmured some boyish request. Jasmine and clematis oppressed him with their oversweetness;
overhead the shining leaves of the magnolia swung with slow grace. So long since he had seen
a magnolia, not since that evening--a life time ago, it seemed; the sight and fragrance fell
on him as her cool touch did that last time. The heart throbs choked him then; he was choking
again. 'Water, mother--a drink!' and something wet his lips and trickled down his throat, not
cool and sweet as the rippling water he longed for, and he turned away with sickly fretfulness;
but a new strength thrilled through his limbs. He opened his eyes; a face, battle-stained,
but tear-wet like a woman's, bent over him.

'O Clement, dear old fellow, do you know me?'

He smiled faintly, with stiffening lips. 'Yes, I know. I've prayed for it, George. I couldn't
live to see her your wife. Good-by, dear boy. Tell mother--' He wandered again. 'Kiss me, mother--now
Lois, my Marguerite. Into thy hands, O Lord--' A momentary struggle for breath, and then Morris
laid back the grand head, and knelt, looking down on the beautiful face, over which the patient
strength of perfect calm had settled forever.

'So that was it, after all,' he said, bitterly. 'Fool not to see; and he was worth a generation
of such as I.'

He turned away, tightened his saddle girths, cast a look on the pandemonium before him, looked
back with one foot already in the stirrup.

'I sha'n't see him again in this hell, even if I come out of it myself.' And going back, with
gentle fingers he removed the few trinkets on the body. In an inner pocket of the blouse he
found a small packet. He opened it on the spot. A lady's handkerchief, silky fine, white as
ever. No need of the delicate tracery in the corners to tell him whose. The perfume that haunted
it still called back too vividly that evening when he had wondered at and loved her more for
the strange, perfect calm that chilled a little his outburst of happiness. He folded it back
carefully, touched his lips as a woman might have done to the cold forehead, and mounted, plunging
up the hill to the fight that had recommenced over the trench. Later in the day, the ball that
fate moulded for Captain George found him. He gave one low, pitiful cry as it crashed through
his bridle arm, and then a merciful darkness closed about him.

Two months after, white and thin, with one empty sleeve fastened across his chest, he stood
where another had stood waiting for the same woman. Through the window drifted in the early
spring fragrance; a handful of early spring flowers lay on the table. A soft rustle and slow
step through the hall, and he rose as Lois came in. She glanced at the empty sleeve with grave,
wide eyes, and sat down near him. He would not have known the face before him, it had so altered;
the hair pushed back from hollow, blue-veined temples, the sharpened, angular outlines, and
an old, suffering look about the mouth and sunken eyes.

Few words were spoken--nothing beyond the most commonplace greetings. Then she said:

'I should have come to you, but I have been ill myself; near death, I believe,' she added, wearily.

She gave the explanation with no throb of feeling. She would have apologized for a careless
dress with more spirit once.

He rose and laid a packet before her.

'A lady's handkerchief--yours, I think. I was with him when he died, though his body was not
found afterward. I was hurt myself, you know, and could not attend to it,' he said, deprecatingly.

She did not touch it, looking from it up to him with eyes filled with just such a grieved,
questioning look as might come into the eyes of some animal dying in torture. He could not
endure it. He put out his white, wasted left hand.

'My poor child!' She shivered, caught her breath with a sob, and, burying her face in the pillows
of a couch, gave way to her first tears in an agony of weeping. And he sat apart, not daring
to touch her, nor to speak--wishing, with unavailing bitterness, that it had been he who was
left lying stark and still beneath the cedars.

The storm passed. She lay quiet now, all but the sobs that shook her whole slight frame. He
said, at last, very gently:

'If I had known--you should have told me. He was my best friend.' His voice trembled a little.
'I know how I must seem to you. His murderer, perhaps; surely the murderer of your happiness.'
A deeper quaver in the sorrowful tones. 'It is too late now, I know; but if it would help you
ever so little to be released from your promise--'

There was no reply.

'You are free. I am going now.' He bent over her for a breath, making a heart picture of the
tired face, the closed eyes, and grieved mouth. Only to take her up for a moment, with power
to comfort her--he would have given his life for that--and turned away with a great, yearning
pain snatching at his breath. In the hall he paused a moment, trying to think. A light step,
a frail hand on his arm, a wistful face lifted to his.

'Forgive me; I have been very unkind. You are so good and noble. I will be your wife, if you
will be any happier.'

He looked down at her pityingly. 'You are very tired. Shall you say that when you are rested
again? Remember, you are free.'

'If not yours, then never any one's.'

His arm fell about her, his lips touched her forehead quietly; he led her back to her couch,
and arranged her pillow, smiling a little at his one awkward hand.

'I shall not see you again before I go back, unless you send for me.'

She put out her hand and touched the bowed face quickly and lightly; and with that touch thrilling
in his veins he went away.

Through Chancellorsville, Gettysburg, and the Charleston siege, Captain George, no longer captain,
now twice promoted for cool bravery, has borne a charmed life--a grave, calm man, remembering
always a still face, 'pathetic with dying.'

Out from the future is turned toward him another face, no less pathetic in its unrest of living.
The soldiers in the Capital hospitals, dragging through the weary weeks of convalescence, know
that face well. For hours of every day she goes about busied with such voluntary service as
she is permitted to do. She sees tired faces brighten at her coming--is welcomed by rough and
gentle voices. Always patient, ready, thoughtful, she is 'spending' herself--waiting for the end.

THE SCIENTIFIC UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE: ITS CHARACTER AND RELATION TO OTHER LANGUAGES.

ARTICLE TWO.

CORRESPONDING FIRST DISCRIMINATIONS IN THOUGHT AND LANGUAGE.

The purpose of these papers, as announced and partially carried forward in the preceding one,
is to explain the nature of the NEW SCIENTIFIC UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE, a component part of the
new Science of UNIVERSOLOGY, and to exhibit its relation to the Lingual Structures hitherto
extant. For this purpose we entered upon the necessary preliminary consideration of the fundamental
question of the Origin of Speech. We found that the latest developments of Comparative Philology
upon this subject, as embodied in Prof. Müller's recent work, 'Lectures on the Science of Language,'
brought us no farther along to the goal of our investigation than Compound Roots--one-, two-,
three-, four-, five--(or more) letter Roots--some four or five hundred of which are the insoluble
residuum which the Philologists furnish as the Ultimate Elements of Language. It was pointed
out that these Roots are not, however, the Ultimate Elements of Language, any more than Compound
Substances are the Prime Constituents of Matter; and that, as Chemistry, as a Science, could
begin its career, only after a knowledge of the veritable Ultimate Elements of the Physical
Constitution of the Globe was obtained, so a True Science of Language must be based upon an
understanding of the value and meaning of the True Prime or Ultimate Elements of Speech--the
Vowels and Consonants.

It is with the exposition of the nature of these Fundamental Constituents of Language, and
of their Correspondential Relationship or Analogy with the Fundamental Constituents of Thought,
the Ultimate Rational Conceptions of the Mind, that the New UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE begins its developments.
Through its agency we may hope to find, therefore, a satisfactory solution to the problem of
the Origin of Speech, which Comparative Philology abandons at the critical point, and so to
be able to pass to the consideration of the more specific objects of our present inquiry.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNIVERSOLOGY establishes the fact that there is Analogy or Repetition of Plan throughout the
various Departments of the Universe. It demonstrates, in other words, that the same Principles
which generate, and the same Laws which regulate, the Phenomena of the Universe as a whole,
fulfil the same functions in connection with the Phenomena of every one of its parts. The Mathematical,
Psychological, or any other specific Domain is, therefore, an expression or embodiment of the
same System of Principles and Laws, with reference to both Generals and Details, which is otherwise
exhibited in Mechanics, Physics, Chemistry, and elsewhere universally; just as the same Architectural
Plan may be variously employed in constructions of different size, material, color, modes of
ornamentation, etc.; and may be modified to suit the requirements of each individual construction.
To every Elementary Form of Thought there is, consequently, a corresponding and related Law
of Number, of Form, of Color, of Chemical Constitution, and of Oral Sound or Speech. Every
Basic Idea, to state it otherwise, pertaining to the Universe at large or to any of its Divisions,
has its counterpart or double in every other Division. Or, to express it yet another way: the
manifold, diverse, and unlike Appearances or Phenomena which the Universe presents to our understanding,
are not radically and essentially different; but are the same Typal Ideas or Thoughts of God
or of Nature, arrayed in various garbs, and, hence, assuming varying presentations. The Numerical
Unit, the Geometrical Point, the Written Dot, the Globule, the Chemical Atom, the Physical
Molecule, the Physiological Granule, the Yod or Iota, the least Element of Sound, are, for
example, Identical Types, differently modified or clothed upon in accordance with the medium
through which they are to be phenomenally presented. It is with this Echo or Repetitory Relationship,
existing between all the Domains of the Universe, but more particularly as exhibited between
the two Domains of Ideas and Language, that we are at present concerned.

It is sufficiently obvious that Analogy should be sought for first, in the Generals of any
department under examination, and, subsequently, through them, in the Particulars. In respect
to the two Domains now under special consideration, this relation is between the Fundamental
Elements of Thought, including those called by the Philosophers the Categories of the Understanding,
and the Fundamental Elements of Language. In pointing out the Correspondence subsisting between
the Elements of these two Domains, I shall use, partly by way of condensation, and partly by
copious extracts, the Elaborate Expositions contained in the yet unpublished text books of
Universology. And, as what follows relating to this subject will consist, almost wholly, of
this material, I do not deem it essential to encumber the page with numerous and unnecessary
quotation marks. It is advisable to caution the Reader, however, that as my present purpose
is explanation and illustration only, and not formal demonstration, what is about to be given
will be mostly in the nature of mere statement, unaccompanied by any other evidence of its
truthfulness than may be found in the self-supporting reasonableness of the statements themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the basic and axiomatic proposition of Hegel's Philosophy, that the first discrimination
of Thought and Being in any sphere is into two factors, a Something and a Nothing;--that which
constitutes the main or predominant element of the Conception or Creation, and that which we
endeavor to exclude from contemplation or activity, but which, nevertheless, by virtue of the
impossibility of perfect or absolute abstraction, inevitably becomes a minor or subordinate
element in the Idea or the Act which may be engaging the attention. Something and Nothing are
also averred to be equal factors in the Constitution of Thoughts or Things, because both are
alike indispensable to the cognition of either; because, in other words, it is only by the
presence of the Nothing as a background or contrasting element, that the Something has an independent
or cognizable existence. If there were no blank space, for instance, there could be no Moon,
relatively, or so far as our ability to perceive it is concerned. For the Moon is, in this
illustration, a Something which is visible to us, and of which we have a knowledge, only by
reason of the fact that it is surrounded by and contrasted with that which is not Moon, and
which, in reference to the particular aspect under consideration is, therefore, a Nothing;
though it in turn may be a Something or main object of attention in some other view or conception,
where some other factor shall be the Nothing.

That this Relationship of Antithesis and Rank existed, as between the Constituents of some
Thoughts or Things, was known from the earliest times, and gave rise to the terms Positive
and Negative, expressive of it. But Hegel was the first--of modern Philosophers, at least--to
point out its necessarily Universal and fundamental character, and to assume it as the starting-point
in the development of all Philosophy and Science.

So far as concerns the investigation of the Universe from the Philosophical point of view (which
is the less precise and definite aspect), Hegel is right in affirming that the first discrimination
of all Thought and Being is that between Something and Nothing. But he is wrong in regarding
the starting-point or first differentiation of Science, as being identical with that of Philosophy.
Science considers, primarily and predominantly, the more exact and rigorous relations of Phenomena;
and the existence of an exact and definite point of departure in Thought and Being, more fundamental,
from the Scientific or rigorously precise point of view, than that of Hegel, is the initiatory
proposition of UNIVERSOLOGY.

A full explanation of the nature of this Starting-point is not, however, in place here. And
as the discrimination into Something and Nothing serves all the purposes of our present inquiry,
a single word respecting the character of the Universological Point of Departure in question
is all that it is now necessary to say concerning it.

This Starting-point of Thought and Action has reference to the Ideas of Oneness (Primitive
Unity) and Twoness (Plurality). These conceptions give rise to two Primordial Principles, which
form the basis of the development of UNIVERSOLOGY, and which are fundamental in every Department
of the Universe and in the Universe as a whole, namely: The Principle of Unism (from the Latin
unus, one), the Spirit of the Number One, the Principle of Undifferentiated, Unanalyzed, Agglomerative
Unity; and The Principle of DUISM (from the Latin duo, two), the Spirit of the Number Two,
the Principle of Differentiation, Analysis, Separation, Apartness, or Plurality, typically
embodied in Two, the first division of the Primitive Unity, and especially representative of
the Principle of Disunity, the essence of all division or plurality. One, in the Domain of
Number, and UNISM, in the Department of Primordial Principles, correspond, it must be added,
with The Absolute (the Undifferentiated and Unconditioned), as one of the Aspects of Being;
while Two, in the Domain of Number, and Duism, among Primordial Principles, are allied with
The Relative (the Differentiated and Conditioned), of which latter Domain Something and Nothing
are the two Prime Factors. The distinction between One and Two, or their analogous Aspects
of Being, Absolute and Relative, is, therefore, prior to that between Something and Nothing,
because Something and Nothing are two terms of The Relative (Two), which has first to be itself
discriminated from The Absolute (One) before it can be sub-divided into these two factors.

While the nature of this discrimination into Something and Nothing may be sufficiently intelligible
to the student of Metaphysics, it may not be so to the Reader unaccustomed to Philosophical
Speculation. For the purpose, therefore, of rendering it somewhat clearer, I will point out
the manner in which it exhibits itself in respect to the Constitution of the External World
and elsewise.

The Totality of all material objects and substances is the Positive Material Universe. This
is contained in Space, which is the Negative Material Universe. Compoundly the two, Matter
and Space, are the whole Material Universe, as to the Parts or Constituent Factors of which
it consists.

Theoretically, and in one, and by no means an unimportant sense, the Zero-Element or Nothing-side
of the Universe or of a given Department of Being, is one whole half, or an equal hemisphere
of the Totality of Being. Thus, for example, Zero (0) in the usage of the Arabic Numbers, while
it is represented in an obscure way merely by a single figure below the nine digits, yet stands
over, in a sense, against all the digits, and all their possible combinations, as equal to
them all in importance. For it is by means of this Zero (0) that the One (1) for instance,
becomes 10, 100, 1000, etc.; and that all the Positive Numbers acquire their relative values,
according to the places or positions in space which they occupy.

In another sense, however, the Negative Ground of Being, in the Universe at large, or in any
given Domain, quickly sinks out of view, and Positive Being becomes the whole of what is commonly
regarded. It is in this sense that, ordinarily, in speaking of The Digits of Number, the Zero
is left out of the count.

In the same manner, when speaking or thinking of the Material Universe, while the notion of
Space is ever present, and is, in the absolute sense, an equal half of the whole conception,
still it is Matter, the total congeries of objects and substances in Space, of which we mainly
think; the Space, as such, being understood and implied, but subordinated as a mere negative
adjunct of the positive idea.

In strictness, Matter and Space are so mutually dependent on each other, that either without
the other is an impossible conception. The notion of Space permeates that of Matter; passing
through it, so to speak, as well as surrounding it; so that it needs no proof that Matter cannot
be conceived of as existing without Space. But, on the other hand, Space is only the negation
of Matter; the shadow, as it were, cast by Matter; and, so, dependent on Matter for the very
origin of the idea in the mind.

If Space, therefore, be the analogue of Nothing; Matter, wholly apart from Space, is only a
theoretical Something, really and actually as much a Nothing as Space itself, when abstractly
considered in its equally impossible separation from Matter. But Matter, completely separated
from Space, is the exact external analogue of the Something opposed to the Nothing of abstract
Metaphysical Thinking. Here, then, is a lucid exposition, by virtue of these analogies, of
the famous Metaphysical Axiom of Hegel, which, at its announcement, threw all Europe into amazement:

  Something = (equal to) Nothing.

It is the logic of this statement that all Reality or Relative Being is a product of two factors,
each of which is a Nothing. The strangeness of this proposition will disappear when it is recognized
that these two Nothings are mere aspects or sides of presentation of the Product, which is
itself the only Reality. In respect to the Real Being, those two sides are Nothings. But, as
appearances or ideal views of the Reality under the process of analytical abstraction in the
mind, they are so far Somethings as to receive names and to be treated of and considered as
if they were Realities. Reality in the Absolute aspect, the aspect of Undifferentiated Unity,
(Unismal), contains these two factors interblended and undiscriminated. In the Relative aspect,
that of Duality, (Duismal), it is the compound of these two factors separated and distinguished.
Finally, in the Integral aspect of Compound Unity (Trinismal), it consists of the Unismal and
the Duismal aspects contrasted--the only real state, or possible condition of actual existence.
And this is the Type of all Reality or Real Existence in every department of Being in the Universe.

But practically and ordinarily, these strictly analytical views of the question of existence
are abandoned. Reality, compounded, as we have seen that it is when viewed in this way, of
a Positive and a Negative Factor, is assumed as itself a Simple Element and set over against
the grand residuum of Negation in the Universe of Being. This is what Kant, less analytical
than Hegel, has done, when, in distributing the Categories of Thought, he has contrasted REALITY
with NEGATION.

This is, as if, in respect to the External Material World, we were to divide Matter--the Planets,
for example, first assigning to them the portions of Space which they bodily and respectively
fill as if it were a part of themselves--from the remaining ocean or grand residuum of Space
which surrounds them and in which they float. This residuum of Space would then be spoken of
as Space, and the Planetary Bodies, along with and including the spaces which they fill, would
be spoken of as Matter. This is a kind of division, less analytical, but more convenient, obvious,
and practical, than the other which would attempt to separate the whole of Space from the Matter
within Space. It is in this more practical manner that we ordinarily think of the division
of the Heavens into the Domains of Matter and Space.

Between Reality, then, including a subordinate portion of Space--the content and volume of
the Planet--and the grand ocean of Space, outlying and surrounding the Planet, there is Limitation,
the outline of the Planet, the Limit or dividing surface between the space within it and the
space without.

It is this Congeries of the Aspects of Being which Kant denominates QUALITY, as a name of a
Group of the Categories of the Understanding; and which he divides into

  1. REALITY.
  2. NEGATION.
  3. LIMITATION.

He then treats REALITY as synonymous with the Affirmative (Positive), and NEGATION as synonymous
with the Negative; although, as we have seen, this Affirmative is not strictly equivalent to
the Something of Hegel, nor this Negative to his Nothing. For Reality we may, in a general
sense, put Substance, and for Limitation we may put Form, Omitting Negation which repeats the
Nothing, as Reality repeats the Something, it may now be said that the next Grand Division
of the Elements of Universal Being (after that into Something and Nothing) is into

  1. SUBSTANCE. )
                            = 3. EXISTENCE.
  2. FORM.      )

That is to say: The Relative (The Domain of Cognizable Being) is first made known to us through
the differentiation and discrimination of the two Factors Something and Nothing which lie undifferentiated
and indistinguishable in The Absolute (The Primitive Ground of Being). The Relative then subdivides
into 1. Substance (Reality), and, 2. Form (Limitation), which reunite to constitute that actualized
Being which we denominate Existence. Or, tabulated, thus:

  THE ABSOLUTE (THE PRIMITIVE
  GROUND OF BEING)
  CONTAINS UNDIFFERENTIATED AND INDISTINGUISHABLE
  THE TWO FACTORS
  SOMETHING and NOTHING
  WHICH CONSTITUTE THE FIRST TERMS
  AND DISCRIMINATIONS OF
  THE RELATIVE (THE DOMAIN OF
  COGNIZABLE BEING);
  WHICH ITSELF DIVIDES INTO
  SUBSTANCE (REALITY) and FORM
  (LIMITATION),
  THE PRIME CONSTITUENTS OF
  EXISTENCE.

To comprehend the vast importance of these discriminations, it is necessary to understand that
precisely those Principles of Distribution which are applicable to the Universe at large are
found to be applicable to every minor sphere or domain of the Universe; in the same manner
as the same Geometrical Laws which prevail in the largest circle prevail equally in the smallest.
It is the prevalence of Identical Principles in diverse spheres which is the source of that
Universal Analogy throughout all spheres that lies at the basis of UNIVERSOLOGY, and gives
the possibility of such a Science. The nature of this Analogy, as well as the value of the
discriminations themselves, will be more clearly seen by glancing at corresponding discriminations
in other spheres.

In the Constitution of the External World, Something is represented, as we have seen, by the
solid and tangible substance which we call Matter, and Nothing by the Expanse of Space.

In the Science of Acoustics, Sound, the pure Phonos, is the Something, the Reality, as it is
denominated by Kant, the Positive Factor of Speech. Silence is the relative Nothing, the Negation,
so called by Kant, the Negative Factor of Speech. The Silences, or Intervals of Rest which
intervene between Sounds (and also between Syllables, Words, Sentences, and still larger divisions
of Speech), are only so many successive reappearances of this negative element. Silence, the
Nothing of Sound, is, in fact, in the most radical aspect of the subject, one entire half or
hemisphere or equal Factor of the whole of Speech or Music. Josiah Warren, the author of a
work entitled 'Music as an Exact Science,' is the only writer I have noticed who has had the
discrimination distinctively to recognize Silence as one of the Elements of the Musical Structure.

Impliedly it is, however, always so recognized. The Silences intervening between tones tunewise,
or in respect to altitude, are, in Musical Nomenclature, denominated Intervals. Timewise Silences,
or those which intervene between Tones rhythmically considered, are called Rests. The Intervals
of Silence between Syllables and Words, in Oral Speech, are represented in the printed book
by what the Printer calls Spaces, which are blank or negative Types interposed between the
positive Types expressive of Sounds. This term Space or Spaces carries us to the analogous
Total Space or Blank Space and intervening reaches of Space between the Planets, Orbs or Material
Worlds, the former the corresponding Nothing of the total Material Universe of which these
worlds are the Something; as exhibited in the demonstrations of UNIVERSOLOGY.

In the Domain of Optics, covering the Phenomena of Light, Shade and Color, Light is the Positive
Factor or Something, and Darkness the Negative Factor or Nothing. Light is, therefore, the
analogue of Sound, and Darkness the analogue of Silence. That is to say, each of these two,
Silence and Darkness, denote the absence, the lack, the want or the negation of the opposite
and Positive Element or Factor.

So in Thermotics, the Science of Heat, Heat itself is the Positismus or Something of the Domain;
and Cold the Negatismus or Correlative Nothing. Heat is, consequently, the analogue of Sound
and Light; while Cold is the analogue of Silence and Darkness.

In respect to the Domain of Mind, Positive Mental Experience (Feelings, Thoughts, and Volitions,
including self-consciousness) are the Positive Factor, the Something of Mentality. Inexperience,
the lack of mental exercitation, hence Ignorance, is the Negative Factor, or Nothing. The Correspondential
Relationship or Analogy existing between this Domain of the Universe and others already mentioned
is testified to in a remarkable manner by our use of Language. We denominate the want of Feeling
Cold or Frigidity--in respect to the Mind or the individual character. The absence of Thought
and Knowledge, or, in other words, Intellectual Barrenness, is called Darkness or Obscurity
of the Mind. While the lack of Will or Purpose in the Mind is said to be the absence of Tension
or Strain (the great Musical term); and the Stillness or quiet hence resulting may be appropriately
designated as the Silence of the Mind; Musical Silences being, as pointed out above, technically
termed Rests.

With this superficial exhibition of the most radical aspect of the Echo of Idea or Repetition
of Type which subsists between all the departments of the Universe, I pass to the more specific
consideration of this Analogy as concerning the Domain of Thought and the Domain of Language.

Setting aside from our present consideration Silence, the Negative factor or Negatismus of
Language, and fixing our attention upon Sound, the Positive factor or Positismus of Language,
we discover it to be composed of two constituents, Vowels and Consonants.

The Vowel is the Substance, the Reality of Language, and the Consonant is the Form, the Limitation.

By Vowel sound is meant the free or unobstructed, and as such unlimited flow of the vocalized
or sounding breath. Vowels are defined in the simplest way as those sounds which are uttered
with the month open; as a (ah) in Father, o in roll, etc.

Consonants are, on the contrary, those sounds which are produced by the crack of commencing
or by obstructing, breaking, or cutting off the sounding breath, by completely or partially
closing the organs of speech; as, for instance, by closing the lips, as when we pronounce pie,
by, my, etc.; or by pressing the point of the tongue against the gums and teeth, as when we
say tie, die, etc.; or by lifting the body of the tongue against the hard palate or roof of
the mouth, as when we give the k or hard g sound, as in rack, rag, or in any other similar way.

Consonants are, therefore, the breaks or limitations upon the otherwise unbroken and continuous
vocality, voice, or vocalized breath. In other words, as already said, Vowel-Sound is the Elemental
Substance, and Consonant-Sound the Elemental Form of Language, or Speech. (By Vowels and Consonants
are here meant, the Reader should closely observe, Vowel-Sounds and Consonant-Sounds, as produced
by the Organs of Speech, and as they address themselves to the Ear, distinguished and wholly
apart from the letters or combinations of letters by which they are diversely represented to
the Eye in different languages.)

By a valid but somewhat remote analogy, the Vowel-Sounds of Language may be regarded collectively
as the Flesh, and the Consonant-Sounds as the Bone or Skeleton of the Lingual Structure. Flesh
is an Analogue or Correspondential Equivalent of Substance. Bone or Skeleton, which gives outline
or shape to the otherwise soft, collapsing, and lumpy flesh-mass of the Human or Animal Body,
is an Analogue of Correspondential Equivalent of Limitation or Form; as the framework of a
house is the shaping or form-giving factor or agent of the entire structure.

Vowel-Sounds are soft, fluent, changeful, and evanescent. One passes easily into another by
slight deviations of pronunciation, resulting from trivial differences in National and Individual
condition and culture; like the Flesh of the animal, which readily decays from the Bony Skeleton,
while the last remains preserved for ages as a fossil. The Vowel-Sounds so readily lose their
identity, that they are of slight importance to the Etymologist or Comparative Philologist,
who is, in fact, dealing in the Paleontology of Language.

The Consonants are, on the contrary, the Fossils of Speech; bony and permanent representatives
of Framework, of Limitation, of Form. Consonant-Sounds are also sometimes denominated Articulations.
This word means joinings or jointings. It is from the Latin articulus, a JOINT, and is instinctually
applied to the Consonant-Sounds in accordance with their analogy with the Skeleton of the Human
or Animal System.

By an easy and habitual slide in the meaning of Words, a term like Joint is sometimes used
to denote the break or opening between parts, and sometimes to denote one of the parts intervening
between such breaks; as when we speak of a joint of meat, meaning thereby what a Botanist would
signify by the term Internode, the stretch or reach or shaft of bone extending from one joint
(break) to another, with the meat attached to it.

Consonants have, in like manner, a double aspect as Articulations or Joints. In a rigorous
and abstract sense, the Consonant has no sound of its own. It is simply a break or interruption
of Sound. Etymologically, it is from the Latin con, WITH, and sonans, SOUNDING; as if it were
a mere accessory to a (vowel) Sound; the Vowels being, in that sense, the only sounds. In this
sense, the Consonants are analogous with the mere cracks or opening joints, which intervene
between the bones of the Skeleton. In other words, they are no sounds, but mere nothings; the
analogy, in that case, of Abstract Limitation.

Practically, on the contrary, the Consonant takes to itself such a portion of the vocalized
or sounding breath which it serves primarily to limit, that it becomes not merely a sound ranking
with the Vowel; but the more prominent and abiding sound of the two. It is in this latter sense,
that it is the Analogue of the Bone.

In Phonography, as in Hebrew and some other Languages, the letters representing the Consonant-Sounds
only are written or printed; the Vowel-Sounds being either represented by mere points added
to the Consonant characters, or left wholly unrepresented, to be supplied by the intelligence
of the Reader. The written words so constructed, represent the real words with about the degree
of accuracy with which a skeleton represents the living man; so that the meaning can be readily
gathered by the practised reader, by the aid of the context. In Phonography, the Consonant-Sounds,
which are simple straight or curved lines, are joined together at their ends, forming an outline
shape, somewhat like a single script (written) letter of our ordinary writing. These outline
words are then instinctually and technically called Skeleton-words, from the natural perception
of a genuine Scientific Analogy.

Consonants constitute, then, what may be denominated the Limitismus (Limiting Domain) of Language.
The Limit is primarily represented by the Line (a line, any line); then by the Line embodying
Substance as seam, ridge, bar, beam, shaft, or bone; and, finally, by a System of Lines, Shafts
or Bones which may then be jointed or limited in turn among themselves, forming a concatenation
of Lines, Bars or Shafts, the framework of a machine or house or other edifice, or the ideal
columnar and orbital structure of the Universe itself. All these conceptions or creations belong
to the practical Limitismus, the Form Aspect or Framework of Being in Universals and in Particulars
in every Sphere and Department of the Universe.

The Limitismus of Being so defined then stands over against or contrasted with the Substancismus
(Substance-Domain) of Being which embraces the Substances, Materials or Stuffs of creation
of whatsoever name that infill the interstices of the Framework or are laid upon it, and constitute
the richness and fulness and plumpness of the Structure, as the Flesh does of the Body.

The wholeness or Integrality of the structure then consists of the composity of these Two (Limitismus
and Substancismus), as the wholeness of the Body consists of the Flesh and the Bone. The Consonants
being the Limitismus, and the Vowels the Substancismus of Language; the Two united and coordinated
comprise the Trinismal Integrality or Integralismus of Speech.

The Vowels denote, then, Reality, as distinguished from Limitation, or, what is nearly the
same thing, Substance, as distinguished from Form.

There are in all Seven (7); or if we include one somewhat more obscure than the rest, a kind
of semi-tone, there are Eight (8) full-toned, perfectly distinct and primary Vowel-Sounds,
which constitute the Fundamental Vowel Scale of the Universal Alphabet. Their number and nature
is governed by the Mechanical Law of their organic production in the mouth. And the number
can only be increased by interposing minor shades of sound, as we produce minor shades of color
by blending the Seven (7) Prismatic Colors. The new Sound will then belong, in predominance
and as a mere variety, to one of these Seven (7) Primary Sounds.

These Seven (7) Sounds constitute the Leading Vowel-System of all Languages; with certain irregularities
of omission in the Vowel-System of some Languages.

By the addition of Five (5) equally leading Diphthongs (or Double Vowels) the number of leading
Vowel representations is carried up to Twelve (12) or Thirteen (13)--which may then be regarded
as the Completed Fundamental Vowel Scale of the Universal Lingual Alphabet.

There are, in like manner, Seven (7)--or Eight (8)--Leading Realities of the Universe, AND
OF EVERY MINOR SPHERE OR DOMAIN OF BEING IN THE UNIVERSE, which correspond with, echo or repeat,
and are therefore the Scientific Analogues of, these Seven (7) Leading Vowel-Sounds, as they
occur among the Elements of Speech.

In representing the Vowel-Sounds, it is better, for numerous reasons, to use the letters with
their general European Values, than it is to conform to their altered or corrupted English
Values. For instance, the Vowel I (i) is pronounced in nearly every language of Europe, and
in all those languages which the Missionaries have reduced to writing, as we pronounce e or
ee, or as i in machine, or pique; E (e) is pronounced as we enunciate a in paper; and A is
reserved for the full Italian sound of a (ah), as in father; U is pronounced like oo, as in
German, Spanish, Italian and many other languages.

The Seven (7) Vowels in question are then as follows:

  1. I, i (ee in feel).
  2. E, e (a in mate).
  3. A, a (a in fa-ther).
  4. o, o (aw in awful).
  5. u, u (u in curd).
  6. O, o (o in no-ble).
  7. U, u (oo in fool).

These sounds are produced in the middle, at the back, and at the front of the mouth respectively.
These localities, and something of the nature of the sounds themselves, as slender or full,
will be plainly illustrated by the annexed figure:

  3. Front-   1. Middle-     2. Back-
     Mouth       Mouth          Mouth

      ou           i         e (^a) a; o u

The following description of the organic formation or production of these sounds now becomes
important.

The Vowel-Sound I (ee) is the most slender and condensed of the Vowel-Scale. It is produced
at the middle or central part of the mouth, by forcing a slight, closely-squeezed current of
Sounding Breath, through a small, smooth channel or opening made by forming a gutter or scoop
of the flattened point of the tongue; while, at the same time, the tongue is applied at the
edges to the teeth and gums. This sound has, therefore, an actual form resembling that of a
thread or line; or still better, like that of a wire drawn through one of the iron openings
by means of which wire is manufactured. It resembles also a slight, smooth, roundish stream
of fluid escaping through a tube or trough.

This sound has relation, therefore, in the first place, to Centrality or CENTRE; and then to
LENGTH (or Line), which is the First Dimension of Extension. The I-sound continued or prolonged
gives the idea of Length. But broken into Least Units of the same quality of Sound, we have
individualized Vowel-Sounds of this quality, each one of which is a new Centre; like the successive
Points of which a Line is composed.

An individual sound, I, has relation, therefore, to Centre and to Point generally. As such
it stands representatively for the Soul or Identity or Central Individuality of Being--for
that which gives to anything its distinctive character, as existing in the Point or the Unit,
or the Atom, or in any Individual Object or Thing from the Atom up to a World and to the Universe
as a whole. Identity is, perhaps, the best single term furnished by our Language to signify
this basic idea. Individuality approximates the meaning. It is the pivotal notion of Being
itself, and has relation, therefore, to Ontology, the Science of Abstract Being. Essence and
Essential Being are terms which may also be used in defining it. The Reader should understand,
however, that with reference to this Sound, as to those to be hereafter considered, there is
no term or terms in any Language which will indicate their meaning exactly. The analysis of
Ideas upon which UNIVERSOLOGY is based is more fundamental than any which has preceded it.
Its Primary Conceptions are, therefore, broader and more inclusive than any former ones which
existing terms are employed to denote. In explaining the meaning of these First Elements of
Sound, then, as related to the First Elements of Thought, all that is now attempted is to convey
as clear a notion of this meaning as is possible with our present terminology, without any
expectation that the precise meaning intended will be at once or entirely apprehended.

The sound E (a in mate) is likewise a slender, abstract-like, middle-mouth sound; but differs
from I in the fact that it is produced by flattening the opening for the Sounding Breath instead
of retaining it in a roundish position. The angles of the mouth are drawn asunder, as if pointing
outward to the sides of the head, and the sound is, as it were, elongated in the crosswise
direction, as if a stick or a quill were held in the teeth, the extremities extending outward
to the sides. A line, in this direction, is the measurer of BREADTH, which is the Second Dimension
of Extension, crossing the Length-line represented by I at right angles. Side-wise-ness is
synonymous with RELATION, as one of the Sub-divisions of Reality, or, in other words, of the
Realities of Being. Re-lation is, etymologically, from the Latin re, BACK or REFLECTED, and
latus, SIDE; that which mutually and reciprocally re-sides the Centre, or furnishes it with
sides or wings. The Vowel-Sound E (a, in mate) is, therefore, the Analogue or Corresponding
Representative or Equivalent in the Domain of Sound of that Fundamental Conception which, in
respect to Thought, is denominated Relation, in respect to Position Collaterality or Sideness,
and in respect to Dimension Breadth or Width.

The Sound A (a in father) is made farther back in the mouth, with the mouth stretched quite
open, and is the richest and most harmonious of the Vowel Sounds--the Queen of the Vowels.
It is the Italian A, the sound most allied with Music and Euphony, and yet a sound which is
greatly lacking in the English Language.

The English Reader must guard himself from confounding the Vowel-Sound of which we are here
speaking, with the Consonant R, the alphabetical name of which is by a lax habit of pronunciation
made to be nearly identical with this Vowel-Sound; while for this beautiful and brilliant and
leading Vowel in the Alphabet of Nature we have no distinct letter in English, and reckon it
merely as one of the values or powers of the Letter A, to which we ordinarily give the value
of E (a in mate, ai in pain).

This Vowel A (ah, a in father) is made with the mouth so open that the form of its production
suggests the insertion of a stick or other elongated object in a perpendicular direction to
retain the jaws in their position; a practice said sometimes to be resorted to by the Italian
Music Teacher, in order to correct the bad habit of talking through the teeth, common among
his English pupils.

This height and depth involved in the Sound of the Vowel A (ah) relates it to THICKNESS, the
Third Dimension of Extension; as the Sound I is related to Length, the First of these Dimensions,
and the Sound E to Breadth, the Second of them.

Thickness is again related to richness and sweetness, to fulness and fatness, as of the good
condition of an Animal in flesh, or of rich and productive soils. And these ideas are again
related to wealth or to riches generally; and, hence, again to SUBSTANCE. The objects of wealth
are called goods, and a wealthy man is said to be a 'man of substance.' A (ah) is the representative
or pivotal Vowel; that one which embodies most completely the Vowel Idea. Its inherent meaning
is especially, therefore, that of SUBSTANCE or REALITY, which, is, in a more general way, as
we have seen, the meaning of all the Vowels. The most real, tangible, sensible substance from
an ordinary point of view being. Matter, this Vowel-Sound allies itself also with Matter or
Materiality as contrasted with Spiritual Substance.

There is, it must now be observed, a flattened variety of A (ah), which will here be represented
by the same letter italicized, thus, A, a, which is the so-called flat sound of A (ah) as when
heard prolonged in mare, pear, etc., or when stopped, in man, mat, etc. This sound is intermediate
in position between E and A (ah). That is to say, it is produced farther back in the mouth
and with the mouth somewhat more open than when we say E, and not so far back as when we say
A (ah); and with the mouth less open. As contrasted with the A (ah), it is a thin, flat, and
slightly unsatisfactory and disagreeable sound, analogically related to the natural semitone
fa of the Diatonic Scale of Musical Tones. This Sound signifies accordingly, THINNESS, ATTENUATED
MATTER, the Ghost or Spirit of Nature, related to Odic Force, Magnetisms, Electricity, etc.;
still not, however, Spirit in the sense of Mind, or in the Religio-Spiritual sense of the word.
This is the exceptional or bastard Vowel-Sound which has but an imperfect or half claim to
be inserted in the Leading Vowel Scale. When inserted, its natural position is between the
E and the A (ah), although for certain reasons it sometimes changes position with the A (ah),
following instead of preceding it.

The next two Vowel-Sounds, o (aw in awful), and u (u in curd), are somewhat like the a (a in
mare), exceptional or bastard Sounds. They are unheard in many Languages, and unrecognized
as distinct sounds in many Languages where they are, in fact, heard. Very few Languages have
distinct Letter-Signs for them. In using the Roman Alphabet, I am compelled to adopt a contrivance
to represent them; which is, as in the case of the a, to print them in italic types, for which,
when the remainder of the word is in italic, small capitals are substituted, thus: Oful (awful);
Urgent; or, in case the whole word is intended to be italicized, for the sake of emphasis,
Oful, Urgent. In script or handwriting, the italic Letter is marked by underscoring a single
line, and the small capital by underscoring two lines.

O (aw) is the fullest of the Vowel-Sounds. It is made with the mouth still farther open than
when we say A (ah), and somewhat farther back; or, rather, with the cavity enlarged in all
directions, and especially deepened. The mouth is stretched in all ways to its utmost capacity,
giving a hollow, vacant effect to the voice, instead of the rich, mellow and substantial sound
of the A (ah). The Sound so produced is, nevertheless, on the one hand, a broader quality of
the A (ah), and there is a strong tendency on the part of the A (ah) to degenerate into it,
as when the uneducated German, says Yaw for Ja (yah). On the other hand, this sound has something
of the quality of O. It is, therefore, intermediate in quality between A (ah) and O. In respect
to meaning, it is the Type, Analogue, Equivalent, or Representative of Volume or SPACE, whether
filled or unfilled by Substance. That is to say, it is the Analogue of Space, not in the sense
in which we formerly regarded Space as the negation of Matter; but in the sense of Infinite
Dimensionality, or of Dimensionality in all directions, as a vague generalization from the
three special dimensions Length, Breadth, and Thickness. It is, therefore, round or ball-like,
and huge, and, in respect to the nature of the tone, vague and vacant.

Space as mere nothing has no Letter-Sign in the Alphabet; but is represented by the blank types
or spaces used by the printer to separate his syllables and words, as shown heretofore. Space
as a Department of Reality, as one of the Realities of the Universe, a bastard or semi-Reality
it is true, but nevertheless, belonging to that Domain, is denoted by the Vowel-Sound o (aw).

The Sound u (uh, u in curd), the fifth of the Scale, is called among Phoneticians, the Natural
Vowel. It is the simple, unmodulated or unformed vocal breath permitted to flow forth from
the throat or larynx with no effort to produce any specific sound. It is the mere grunt, a
little prolonged; the unwrought material out of which the other and more perfect Vowel Sounds
are made by modulation, or, in other words, by the shapings and strains put upon the machinery
of utterance. The Hebrew scheva, the French eu, and e mute, are varieties of this easily-flowing,
unmodulated, unstable, unsatisfactory sound. Like the o (aw), this sound u (uh) has a vacant,
unfinished, and inorganic character as a sound, while yet, from its great fluency, its frequent
occurrence tends, more than that of any other sound, to give to Language that conversational
fluency, rapidity and ease which are especially characteristic of the French Tongue. From this
same easy laxity of its nature all the other Vowel Sounds tend, in English particularly, when
they are not accented, to fall back into this Natural Vowel; as in the following instances:
Roman, broken, mirth, martyr, Boston, curd, etc.; words which we pronounce nearly Romun, brokun,
murth, martur, Bostun, curd, etc.

This Sound, as to inherent meaning, is, by its alliance with the idea of flux, flow and continuity,
the Type, Analogue, Equivalent or Representative in the Domain of Oral Sound of that Fundamental
Conception which, in respect to Idea, we denominate TIME; and of Stream-like or Currental Being
of all kinds.

Space, denoted by o (aw), has relation to the Air as an atmosphere, and to the Ocean of Ether
in filling the Great Spheral Dome of Empyrean or Firmament. The Vowel-Sound u (uh) has a similar
relation to Fluidity or Liquidity, and, hence, to Water as a typical fluid, to the Ocean Flux
or Tide, to the Flowing Stream, etc. This Time-like idea is uni-dimensional or elongate in
a general or fluctuating sense; not specifically like I. It is in view of this characteristic,
that it is broadly and primarily contrasted with the Spacic significance of o (aw), which is
omnidimensional.

The two remaining Vowel-Sounds, the O and U (oo), repeat the o (aw) and u (uh), in a sense,
but in a new and more refined stage or degree of development. The sound O is made at the front
mouth--the locality the most openly in sight of any at which Sound is produced--by rounding
the lips into an irregularly-circular, face-like, or disk-like presentation. The O Sound so
produced denotes Presence, as of an object by virtue of its reflection of Light; and, hence,
LIGHT, Clearness, Purity, Reflection.

The U (oo in fool) is an obscured or impure pronunciation of the O. The lips are protruded
as if to say O; but not being sufficiently so for the production of the pure Sound, the Sound
actually given is mixed, or made turbid or thick. The U-Sound denotes accordingly Retiracy,
Obscurity, Shade, Turbidity, Mixedness, or Impurity, as of Colors in a dim light, or as of
Materials in a slime or plasma, etc.

Metaphysically, O denotes PURE THEORY, the Abstract; and U (oo) signifies the ACTUAL or PRACTICAL,
the Tempic, the Concrete (the Temporal or Profane), which is always mixed with contingency.

Other Vowel-Sounds, shades more or less distinct of some one of these Leading Sounds, are interspersed
by nature between these diatonic Sounds, like the half tones and quarter tones in Music. Two
of these French eu and e muet modifications of u (uh) have been mentioned. Eu is modulated
at the lips, and e muet at the middle mouth, but both have the general character of u (uh).
The French U is a modification of the U (oo), of the Scale just given, but made finer, and
approximating I (ee). The Italian O is a modification of o (aw). These four are the Leading
Semi-tone Sounds; which along with a carry the Scale from Seven (7) diatonic up to twelve (12)
chromatic. As they will be passed over for the present with this mere mention, the points of
the Scale at which they intervene will not be now considered.

Discarding these minor shades of Sounds, the Leading Scale of Vowel-Sounds is augmented from
Seven (7) or Eight (8) to Twelve (12) or Thirteen (13), by the addition of the following five
(5) Diphthongs or Double Vowels. In respect to the quality of Sound, they are pronounced just
as the Vowels of which they are composed would be if separated and succeeding each other. To
make the Diphthong long, the two Sounds are kept quite distinct. To make it short, they are
closely blended; as, AU (ah-oo), long; A[)U] (ahoo), short. With no diacretical mark they are
pronounced ad libidum, or neither very long nor short.

The following are the five (5) Diphthongs which complete the Vowel Scale:

The IU is composed of the first Vowel I (ee) and the last U (oo). The I-sound, so placed before
another Vowel-Sound, tends readily to be converted into or more properly to prefix to itself
the weak Consonant-Sound represented in English by Y (in German and Italian by J); thus YIU
for IU. The whole of the three Sounds so involved (a real Triphthong) are represented by the
English U long--which is never a simple Vowel-Sound--as in union, pronounced yioonyun.

This Diphthong IU (or yiu) denotes Conjunction, Conjuncture, Event (the two ends meeting);
and also Coupling or Unition; a central point between extremes.

The next and the most important of the Diphthongs (except AU) is AI, compounded of the third
(A) and the first (I) of the simple Vowel-Sounds. It is pronounced very nearly like the English
long I, as in pine, fine, etc., which is not a simple Vowel; but is compounded of the two simple
Vowels above mentioned (A and I, ahee) in a very close union with each other; or, as it were,
squeezed into each other. The Tikiwa (Tee-kee-wah) combination (this is the name of the Scientific
Universal Language), AI, is not ordinarily quite so close, and when pronounced long, is quite
open, so that each Vowel is distinctly heard (ah-ee).

This Diphthong AI may be regarded as embracing and epitomizing the lower or ground wing or
half of the Simple Vowel-Scale (I E a A); its meaning is, therefore, that of BASIC or SUBSTANTIAL
REALITY: the GROUND of Existence.

Contrasted with this is the next Diphthong, OI (aw-ee), compounded of the fifth (o) and the
first (I) Vowel-Sounds. It is the Sound of oy in boy. The I contained in this Diphthong may
be regarded as standing in the place of U at the other extremity of the Scale. This last Sound
has a tendency to return into I through the French slender U, illustrating the Principle of
the Contact of Extremes. The Diphthong OI may, therefore, be viewed as embracing and epitomizing
the upper or ethereal wing or half of the Simple Vowel Scale (o u O U); its meaning is, therefore,
that of AERIAL or ASCENDING REALITY; LOFTINESS or LOFT.

Next there occurs a Diphthong OI, pronounced as the same letters in the English word going,
which has a half claim to be ranked with the Leading Diphthongs. It is sometimes reckoned into,
and sometimes out of, the Scale--like a among the Simple Vowels. Its meaning is that of FRONTNESS,
PROSPECT.

Finally, the great Focal Diphthong, that which includes and epitomizes the whole Vowel Scale,
is AU (ah-oo), compounded of the third Vowel-Sound (A) and the Seventh (or Eighth) U. It is
the sound heard in our, or in the Spanish causa. The meaning of this Supreme Diphthong and
general Vowel Representative is UNIVERSAL REALITY. It stands practically in the place of all
the Vowels, in the Composition of Words of an inclusive meaning. That is to say, it integrates
in its signification, all that is inherently signified by all the other Vowels.

While, however, AU is practically and usually the Representative, Analogue or Equivalent, in
the Domain of Language, of Universal Reality among the Elements of Being, this is so only in
practice. Theoretically, the Diphthong best adapted to represent this Idea is AO; the A and
the O being, in a supreme sense, the two most prominent or leading Vowels. But it is a little
difficult to retain the Organs of Utterance in the position which they must assume in order
to pronounce these two Vowel-Sounds in conjunction. The organs readily and naturally slide
into the easier position in which they utter AU. This is correspondential with the difficulty
always experienced in adhering to Pure Theory (O); and the natural tendency to glide from it,
as ground too high for permanent occupation, into the more accommodating Domain of the Practical
(U).

The Full Scale of Vowel Sounds coupled with the Full Scale of the (Indeterminate) Realities
of Universal Being is, therefore, as follows:

       1. SOUNDS.                          2. REALITIES OF BEING.

 1. I, i (ee as in feel).             ENTITY or IDENTITY (Centre, Least
                                        Element, Essential Being,
                                        Individuality).

 2. E, e (a as in mate).              RELATION (Sideness, Collaterality,
                                        Adjectivity).

 3. A, a (a as in mare).          UNSUBSTANTIALITY (Thinness, Ghost,
                                        Apparition).

 4. A, a (a as in fa-ther).           SUBSTANCE (Thickness, Materiality,
                                        Richness, Goodness).

 5. O, o (aw as in awful).        SPACE (Volume, Expansion).

 6. U, u (u as in curd).          TIME (Flux, Flow).

 7. O, o (o as in noble).             LIGHT (Reflection, Parity, Clearness,
                                        Theory).

 8. U, u (oo as in fool).             SHADE (Retiracy, Turbidity, Mixture,
                                        Practice).

 9. IU, iu (YIU), (u in union, use).  CONJUNCTION (Event, Joining).

 10. AI, ai (ah-ee, i in fine).       BASIC REALITY (Ground of Existence).

 11. OI, oi (aw-ee, oy in boy).       AERIAL or ASCENDING REALITY (Loft,
                                        Loftiness).

 12. OI, oi (o-ee, oi in going).  FRONTNESS, PROSPECT.

 13. AU, au (ou in our).              UNIVERSAL REALITY.

The Vowels and Diphthongs of this Basic Scale may be Long or Short, without any change of quality.
This difference is indicated by diacritical marks, which it is not now necessary to exhibit.

In addition to these merely quantitative differences in the Vowel-Sounds, there is a corresponding
difference of Quality, which produces a Counter-Scale of Vowel-Sounds; an echo or repetition
of the Basic Scale throughout its entire length. This new Scale is a Series of Sounds predominantly
short in quantity. They are called by Mr. Pitman the Stopped Vowels. (In German they are denominated
the Sharp Vowels.) These Sounds are nearly always followed by a Consonant-Sound in the same
syllable, by which they are stopped or broken abruptly off, and the purity of their quality
as Vowels affected or disturbed.

It is not essential for our present purpose to give a detailed list of these Vowels; more especially
as every Reader will readily recall them; as I, in pIn; E, in pEt; A in pAt; o, in not; u,
in but; O, in stOne, cOAt; U, in fUll.

In respect to the Vowel Diphthongs, the Stopped Sounds are not materially different from the
short quantities of the corresponding Full ones; and no effort need be made to distinguish
the two former varieties of Sound. The same is true of the Short and Stopped Sounds of A (ah).
But the difference is very marked in the remaining Seven (7) Simple Vowels; the Stopped Sounds
of which are given above. For the ordinary purposes of Language it is not necessary to distinguish
these Stopped Sounds by any diacritical mark. But in the short Root-Words, where a difference
of meaning depends upon the difference between the full and stopped Vowel, the so-called grave
accent is employed to denote the stopped quality, as pique, pick, for example, written thus:
pik, pik.

The meaning of the Stopped Vowel-Sounds is merely the broken or fractionized aspect of the
same ideas which are symbolized by the corresponding Full Vowel-Sounds.

The nature and meaning of the Vowels being thus explained with sufficient amplitude for the
uses now in view, we are prepared to advance, in a subsequent paper, to the consideration of
the individual Consonant-Sounds, their character and inherent signification.

THE TWO PLATFORMS.

It was the opprobrium of the Republican party in the Presidential campaign of 1860, that the
Southern States were not, in any but a limited degree, represented in its ranks; and so it
was called a sectional party. The Presidential campaign of 1864 is not less remarkable, on
the other hand, because the party which now appropriates the honored name of Democratic seems
to ignore the crime of rebellion on the part of those Southern States, and thus invites an
even more obnoxious appellation. History will record with amazement, as among the strange phenomena
of a war the most wicked of all the wicked wars with which ambition has desolated the earth
(phenomena that will perplex men and women of loyal instincts and righteous common sense to
the latest day), the resolutions of the Chicago Convention of 1864.

It is the purpose of this article to consider as dispassionately as may be, those Chicago resolutions,
as well as the ones previously adopted at Baltimore; desiring to look at them both from the
standpoint of a patriotism which loves the whole country as one indivisible nation--the gift
of God, to be cherished as we cherish our homes and our altars.

A convention called of all those, without respect to former political affinities, who believed
in an uncompromising prosecution of the war for the Union till the armed rebellion against
its authority should be subdued and brought to terms, met at Baltimore on the 7th of June last,
and nominated Abraham Lincoln, of Illinois, for reëlection as President, and Andrew Johnson,
of Tennessee, for election as Vice-President. The convention, with exceeding good sense, and
obedient to the just and patriotic impulses of the people, disregarded all party names of the
past, and called itself simply a National Union Convention. Two months later, and on the 29th
of August last, obedient to the call of Democratic committees, a convention met at Chicago,
composed of men whose voices were for peace, and nominated for President General George B.
McClellan, of New Jersey, and for Vice-President George H. Pendleton, of Ohio. This convention
took the name of Democratic, indicating thereby not the idea of the equal rule of all the people,
as the name imports, but the traditions and policies of those degenerate days before the war,
when Democracy had strangely come to mean the rule of a few ambitious men. In other words,
it ignored the crime of those men (who have sacrificed their country to their ambition), and
assumed that the country could also overlook the crime. It supposed the people ready to strike
hands with rebellion and elevate the authors of rebellion to power again.

Perhaps the difference between the two conventions may be concisely stated thus: The Chicago
Convention was for peace first, and Union afterward; the Baltimore Convention for Union first,
then peace. Let us see.

THE CHICAGO PLATFORM.

We suppose that no one will think us wanting in fairness when we characterize the Chicago Platform
as one of peace.[4] If there is any reproach in the term, it surely is not the fault of those
who take men to mean what they say.

[Footnote 4: It is presumed that every one is familiar with the two platforms, as they are
so easily obtained, and it is, therefore, not deemed necessary to encumber the pages of the
Magazine with inserting them in full.]

Indeed, it is simply the truth to declare that the general impression on the first publication
of it confirmed the view we have taken, and that even among the supporters of the convention
there were many who proclaimed their confident expectation that General McClellan, if he should
accept the nomination, would disregard the platform, and stake his chances on his own more
warlike record. We will not stop to consider in this place whether that expectation has been
fulfilled. It suffices for our present purpose to remind our readers that the great doctrine
of the Democratic party of former days was expressed in the motto, 'Principles, not men;' and
that the rigid discipline of the party has always required the nominee to be the mere representative
of the platform--its other self, so to speak: as witness the case of Buchanan, who declared
himself, following the approved formulas of his party, no longer James Buchanan, but the Cincinnati
Platform. It ought also to be borne in mind, that General McClellan's letter of acceptance
does not, in terms, repudiate the platform, and is not necessarily inconsistent with it.

The first one of the six resolutions that constitute the Chicago Platform, has the sound of
true doctrine. 'Unswerving fidelity to the Union under the Constitution,' is the duty of every
citizen, and has always been the proud war-cry of every party; and they who swerve from it
are subject not simply to our individual censure, but to the sanction of our supreme law. The
just complaint against this platform is, that, while thus proclaiming good doctrine, it overlooks
the departure therefrom of a large portion of the people, misled by wicked men. When we look
at the other resolutions, the first one seems all 'sound and fury, signifying nothing.'

Nor will we withhold what of approval may possibly be due, in strict justice, to the sixth
and last resolution; although the approval can only be a limited one. No one can overlook the
entire lack in that resolution of cordial sympathy with the sacred cause of nationality, to
which the brave heroes of the war have given their lives and fortunes. It restricts itself
to a simple recognition of the 'soldiery of our army,' as entitled to 'sympathy,' with a promise
of 'protection' to them, 'in the event of our attaining power.' It ignores the navy, and passes
by the gallant heroes who on sea and river have upheld the flag of our country with a lustre
that pales not before the names of Paul Jones, and Perry, and Decatur. Moreover, the sympathy
'extended to the soldiery' is the sympathy not of the American people, but of 'the Democratic
party.' Surely, this phrase was ill conceived. It has a touch of partisan exclusiveness that
is sadly out of place. But the resolution is unpartisan and patriotic in another respect that
deserves notice. It extends the 'sympathy of the Democratic party to the soldiery of our army,'
without making any discrimination to the prejudice of the negro soldiers; and thus commits
the 'Democratic party,' with honorable impartiality, to the 'care and protection' of all 'the
brave soldiers of the Republic.'

With these criticisms upon the first and sixth resolutions, we proceed to record our total
disapprobation of the remaining four. In all candor, we contend that those four resolutions
are a surrender of the national honor, and a violation of the national faith. They are unworthy
the old glory of the Democratic party. For what is the purport of them? Is it condemnation
of a rebellion that has 'rent the land with civil feud, and drenched it in fraternal blood'?
Is it to stimulate the heroism of those whose breasts are bared to the bullets of traitors
in Virginia and Georgia, and who have 'borne aloft the flag and kept step to the music of the
Union' these three years and a half in unwearied defence of the nation? Ah, no; they declare
the war a 'failure'! It can never be forgotten that on the fourth of July, 1863, Governor Seymour,
in a public discourse at the Academy of Music, in New York, drew a deplorable picture of the
straits to which the nation was at last reduced, with the enemy marching defiantly across the
fertile fields of Pennsylvania, and men's hearts failing them for fear of danger, not alone
to the political capital, Washington, but also to the financial capital, New York; and that,
even while the words fell from the speaker's lips, that defiant enemy, already beaten, was
rapidly retreating before the magnificent old Army of the Potomac at Gettysburg: while victorious
Grant had already broken the left of the rebel line, and was celebrating the nation's anniversary
in the triumph of Vicksburg. Even so, let it never be forgotten that the delegates who adopted
this second resolution, so burdened with despair, had scarcely reached their homes, ere the
stronghold of the Southern Confederacy, which, ever since the war was begun, has been boastfully
proclaimed the key of its military lines, and as impregnable as Gibraltar, fell before the
unconquerable progress of the armies of the West, under General Sherman; and thus the rebel
centre, as well as left, had been broken, and only the rebel right, at Richmond, yet remains
to the Southern army.

In further answer to the discouraging language of this resolution, let us offset the following
terse and comprehensive statement of what has been accomplished in the course of the nation's
'experiment of war.' It is copied from The Evening Post of a recent date, and the writer supposes
the soldiers to speak thus:

     'We have not failed; on the contrary, we have fought bravely and
     conquered splendidly. In proof of our words we can point to such
     trophies as few wars can equal and none surpass. Besides defending
     with unusual vigilance and completeness two thousand miles of
     frontier, in three years we have taken from the enemies of the
     Union, by valor and generalship, thirty complete and thoroughly
     furnished fortresses; we have captured over two thousand cannon; we
     have reconquered and now hold nearly four thousand miles of
     navigable river courses; we have taken ten of the enemy's principal
     cities, three of them capitals of States; in thirty days last
     summer we captured sixty thousand prisoners; we have penetrated
     more than three hundred miles into the territory claimed by the
     enemy; we have cut that territory into strips, leaving his armies
     without effectual communication with each other; the main
     operations and interests of the war, which were lately concentrated
     about Baltimore, Paducah, and St. Louis, have been transferred, by
     our steady and constant advance, to the narrow limits of the
     seaboard Slave States; we hold every harbor but one, of a coast six
     thousand miles long. And whatever we have taken we hold; we have
     never turned back, or given up that which we once fairly
     possessed.'

It has, however, been fittingly reserved for the chief of the rebellion himself to give the
full and complete answer to this dishonorable complaint of failure. Not a month after the meeting
of the Chicago Convention, and on the 23d of September last, Jeff. Davis uttered these words,
in a public speech, at Macon, Geo.: 'You have not many men between eighteen and forty-five
left.... Two-thirds of our men are absent, some sick, some wounded, but most of them absent
without leave. ... In Virginia the disparity of numbers is just an great as it is in Georgia.'

But let it be granted that after these three years and a half of war, and having accomplished
such unquestionably important results, the Union is not yet restored, what then? Is that a
reason for giving up now? Our fathers fought the British seven years without flinching; and
under the indomitable leader God had given them, they would have fought seven years longer
with equal determination. Are we less determined than they were? Are we such degenerate sons
that we are willing to give up the legacy they left us, at half its original cost? There is
just the same reason that we should yield the contest now as there was in 1861 that we should
yield it then; neither more nor less. The integrity of the nation, the perpetuity of our institutions,
the safety, honor, and welfare of the people are still at stake. If the United States Government
was the assailant, it did wrong, and has continued doing wrong ever since; and not a century
of such wrong-doing can make the war just and right on our part. This brings us face to face
with the question, Who began the war? Who, in this contest, has assailed the principles of
'justice, humanity, and liberty'? Who has attacked the 'public welfare'? Has it been the United
States Government? Let us revert to the occasion of the war. Confining ourselves to what all
parties admit--even the rebels themselves--the immediate occasion of the war was the election
of a President distasteful, for whatever cause, to the Southern leaders. Abraham Lincoln was
elected President of the United States under the organic law of the nation, in strict accordance
with all its modes and requirements, and none ever disputed the fairness of the election. That
organic law is the Constitution, to which the South is bound equally with the North. The men
of the Chicago Convention, who have recalled to our minds its high supremacy, neglected to
express their opinion of those who, immediately on the election of President Lincoln, contemptuously
spurned it, and have sought these three years and a half to overthrow it and destroy the Union
which it upholds.

Every sentiment of 'justice' was outraged when wicked sedition thus without cause reared its
head against the covenant of the nation. Every instinct of 'humanity' was stifled by the traitors
who surrounded a gallant garrison of seventy men with a force of ten thousand, and opened fire
on the heroes who stood by the flag that had been the glory and defence of both for more than
half a century. 'Liberty,' in all its blessed relations of home, and country, and religion,
was struck at when blind ambition thus set at defiance the power of the Union, to which liberty
owes its life on this continent, and its hopes throughout the world. The constitutional liberty
that is the glory of our civilization, the liberty regulated by law that is the pride of our
institutions, was attacked by those who at Montgomery fiercely defied the Constitution and
laws. And what shall we say of the constitution which these traitors to their country and humanity
affected to establish, instead of that, the heritage of their and our Washington and his compeers,
which had made our country powerful among nations, and blessed it with equal laws and equal
protection to all? What shall we say of the constitution that ordained slavery as the corner
stone of a new confederacy, to teach mankind the folly of Christian civilization, and bring
back the 'statelier Eden' of the dark ages? To which party in this terrible strife of brothers
does 'liberty' look for protection to-day? Which of the two armies of brothers now arrayed
against each other on the plains of Virginia and Georgia, is fighting for the principle of
order, which is the 'public welfare'? Let these questions be answered, and then it will appear
how much reason there is in the declaration that 'liberty, justice, humanity, and the public
welfare' demand the 'cessation of hostilities.' On the contrary, these very principles demand
that the war be continued without abatement till they are guaranteed safe residence and sure
protection under the United States Constitution.

But, it is objected, you ignore the basis on which, this 'cessation of hostilities' is proposed,
namely, 'the Federal Union of the States.' There is a word to be said in reference to this
clause which will illustrate the high-toned patriotism of some of the convention which adopted
it. There was an alteration in the wording of the resolution, and some of the papers printed
it accordingly, 'the basis of the Federal States.' The editor of the New York Freeman's Journal
(a paper which zealously supports the Chicago platform and all peace measures, and is called
Democratic), being requested to explain which version was correct, said, in a late issue of
his journal, that in the original draft of the resolution 'it was not the bold doctrine of
Federal States;' it was the delusion and snare of a Federal 'Union,' and that therefore the
latter must be taken as the correct version.

Replying to the above objection, we say that we neither ignore this 'delusion and snare' of
the Federal Union as the basis of the proposed peace, nor those other words in the fourth resolution,
'that the aim and object of the Democratic party is to preserve the Federal Union and the rights
of the States unimpaired.' The question is, how possibly to reconcile the demand for an immediate
'cessation of hostilities' with this great anxiety to preserve the Federal Union? For the Federal
Union can only be preserved by subduing the armed rebellion that menaces it. Anything short
of the absolute and thorough defeat of the Southern armies must lower the dignity of the nation,
and weaken and subvert the foundations of the Union. Thus far, by the grace of God and our
right arm, the Constitution and Union are preserved, and so long as they 'still stand strong,'
the basis of settlement remains; and whenever the rebels are tired of trying their strength
against them, the nation stands ready to welcome them back, as penitent prodigals. It is not
we who are unreconciled to them: it is they who refuse to be reconciled to us. If the illustration
offend no weaker brother, we may say that, like the ever-surrounding love of God, the Federal
Union is still watching over the rebels, and is only waiting the first symptom of their returning
conscience to run and fall on their necks and kiss them, and bring them in peace to the home
they so foolishly left. They are striving to destroy the Constitution and the Union. We oppose
them. Let us consider what, under these circumstances, 'a cessation of hostilities' means.

In the first place, how are hostilities to cease, unless the power that controls the Southern
armies so wills it? That power is a military despotism. It has usurped all other power within
the limits of the rebellion, and the United States Government is seeking to overthrow it, in
order that the Constitution may be restored, in all its benignity, to the people of the South,
whom the usurpation has deprived of it. Is it, then, for the United States Government to propose
to the authors of this usurpation to cease seeking its total overthrow? The question recurs,
moreover, what 'cessation' have we to propose? It is for them to offer to yield: they are the
aggressors, threatening the life of the nation. Is any among us so base he would have peace
with dishonor? A nation cannot submit to be dishonored before the world--for its honor is its
life. Yet what sort of peace would that be which we should thus begin by seeking? It is far
from pertinent to cite, as some have done, the example of Napoleon on this point: even supposing
that civil war were, in respect of this thing, the same as war between independent nations.
For Napoleon never proposed suspensions of hostilities except in his own extremity, and as
a convenient means to extricate himself from difficulties which he had the art of concealing
from his adversaries. Are we in extremity, that this example of Napoleon should be suggested
in support of the Chicago platform?

As to how our overtures might be received at Richmond, we are no longer left any excuse for
doubting. The oft-repeated assurances of all who have fled from the rebel tyranny since the
war was begun, are, at length, confirmed by the authoritative declaration of Jeff. Davis himself.
It is a declaration promulgated not only by Colonel Jaquess and Mr. Gilmore, in the account
given by the latter of their recent visit to Richmond, but also by Mr. Benjamin, the rebel
Secretary of State, in a circular letter written for the purpose of giving the rebel account
of that visit. We are told by the rebel chief himself, that as preliminary to any negotiations,
the independence of the Southern Confederacy must be first acknowledged. Why does not the Chicago
platform suggest a way of avoiding this difficulty? Why has it left the country in uncertainty
on a question so vital?

But, in the second place, suppose it were possible to have a 'cessation of hostilities' without
this preliminary acknowledgment of the Confederate independence, and that the war might be
at an absolute stand still for a definite season, are we fully aware of the risks attending
this measure? For the Chicago platform has left them out of sight. 'A cessation of hostilities'
is an armistice; and there is no such thing known in the authorities on international law,
or in history, as 'a cessation of hostilities' distinct from an armistice. In defining the
incidents of war, Wheaton speaks of a 'suspension of hostilities by means of a truce, or armistice,'
and uses the three terms interchangeably. In other words, whatever 'cessation (or suspension,
as it is called in the books) of hostilities,' there may occur between the parties to a war,
it is known among men and in history as an armistice, which is also the technical term for
it. There would be no need to enlarge upon this point, if it had not been made already the
basis of fallacious appeals to popular ignorance. Now, the incidents of an armistice are well
defined, giving to both parties, besides the advantage of time to rest, full liberty to repair
damages and make up losses of men and material; and it is perfect folly, or worse, to talk
of 'a cessation of hostilities' without giving to the rebels these important advantages. But
the controlling consideration in reference to this whole thing, and which every person ought
to ponder carefully, is the effect of the proposed 'cessation of hostilities' upon our neutral
neighbors. On this point the doctrine of international law is thus stated by the distinguished
French writer, Hautefeuille, 'the eminent advocate of neutral rights,' as he is justly called
by the American editor of Wheaton, and whose works on neutral relations are always cited with
respect, and recognized as authority.

     'The duties imposed on neutrals by the state of war belong
     essentially to the state of war itself. From the moment it ceases,
     for whatever cause, even temporarily, the duties of neutrals
     likewise cease; as to them, peace is completely restored during
     the suspension of arms. They resume then all the rights which had
     been modified by the war, and can exercise them in their full
     extent during the whole time fixed for the duration of the truce,
     if this time has been limited by the agreement; and until the
     resumption of hostilities has been officially announced to them, if
     it has not been limited.'[5]

[Footnote 5: 'Des Droits des Nations Neutres,' t. I., p. 301]

Can language be clearer? It will not do to treat it lightly. It is a statement of what international
law is on this point from an authority; and the reasons for the doctrine are clear and incontrovertible.
Neutrality depends on the fact of war; when, for any cause, that fact no longer exists, neutrality
ceases likewise, of course. It is only the application of a well-known maxim of law, that when
the reason of a rule fails, the rule itself fails. Let there be 'a cessation of hostilities,'
then, as proposed in the Chicago platform, and how long would it be before rebel ships of war
from English ports would be ready to desolate our coast, destroy our shipping, raise the blockade,
and give to the rebellion the aid and sustenance it must have ere long or perish?

There is still another difficulty in the way of suspending hostilities, which it is well for
us not to ignore. If we propose to the rebels 'a cessation of hostilities,' does not the question
immediately become one of negotiation between separate Governments? Have we not in that moment,
and in that thing, then recognized the Southern Confederacy as a separate and independent Power?
For does not 'a cessation of hostilities' presuppose parties of equal sovereignty on both sides?
Indeed, The London Times of a recent date already declares that 'it would concede to the South
a position of equality.' Such a concession cannot, for a moment, be thought of. For the very
question at issue is our constitutional supremacy. When that is yielded, all is yielded. The
exchanging of prisoners, and the numerous like questions that perpetually arise in the progress
of war, are matters of common humanity, that depend upon their own law. They are totally independent
of the questions at issue between the parties belligerent; and our dealings with the South,
in reference to such matters, cannot be construed into a recognition of its separate independence.
If we consent to treat with the rebel chiefs, however, in regard to the very question involved
in the war, how can we longer compel the non-interference of foreign Powers? If we acknowledge
the authority of Jeff. Davis to speak for the Southern people, we cannot then take offence
if other nations acknowledge him as the representative and head of a new Government.

Such and so great are the consequences of a 'cessation of hostilities,' which the Chicago platform
proposes to the serious consideration of the American people.

It thus appears how irreconcilable are the expressions in that platform in regard to the preservation
of the Federal Union, with the clearly announced determination to propose immediately 'a cessation
of hostilities.' They are vague generalities, and can have no other purpose than to catch the
popular ear so as more effectually to deceive the popular heart. That this is not a harsh judgment,
consider how the four resolutions that treat of the war all hinge upon the proposition to suspend
hostilities. For they concern themselves with what? With condemnation of the rebellion, its
authors, and objects, suggesting, at the same time, how more effectually to bring upon it its
righteous retribution? Far from it. Indeed, a stranger to all that has passed in our country
during the last three years, would suppose, from a study of these resolutions, that the United
States Government had usurped the power of a despotism, and that all who are not arrayed in
open rebellion, against its authority were groaning under the yoke of a tyrant. The platform
throughout ignores the one supreme question that is before the people to-day. That one question
is, Shall we maintain the integrity of the nation? It is vain to introduce other issues; they
must abide the event of arms. The old maxim that in the midst of war the laws are silent, is
not to be condemned. For our laws are of no avail, the nation cannot enforce them, so long
as armed rebellion threatens its existence. With the nation, all its laws, principles, vital
forces, are equally menaced and imperilled; and they are, in virtue of that very fact, in abeyance,
in order that they may be saved. It is said that the Constitution is not suspended because
of rebellion, and this is the basis of much declamation, both in the Chicago platform and elsewhere,
against the exercise of extraordinary powers on the part of the President. But the Constitution
authorizes the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus, that great writ of right which is the
bulwark of our Anglo-Saxon liberty, 'when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety
may require it;' and confers upon Congress full power to legislate for the defence of the nation,
making it then the duty of the President to 'take care that the laws be faithfully executed.'
What more is needed as a warrant for extraordinary power? The Chicago Convention has appealed
to the Constitution, and in that has done wisely. But what is the Constitution? It is the organic
law of the nation. In virtue of it the nation exists, and by the supreme warrant of it the
nation maintains its existence against parricidal treason. Under the Constitution all power
is granted to the public authorities to quell insurrection; and the grant of a power, by one
of the first principles of law, as also of common sense, implies every essential incident to
make the grant effectual.

In support of these views it is pertinent to cite the authority of an approved text writer
on municipal law, whose book has appeared since they were first written, and who has elaborately
investigated the points involved. The result of his patient and thorough study is stated in
these propositions:

     'That no civil power resides in any department of the Government to
     interfere with the fundamental, personal rights of life, liberty,
     and property, guaranteed by the Constitution; that a warlike power
     is given by the Constitution to the President temporarily to
     disregard these rights by means of the martial law; that under the
     sanction of this species of law, the President and his subordinate
     military officers may, within reasonable limits, suspend the
     privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, cause arrests to be made,
     trials and condemnations to be had, and punishments to be
     inflicted, in methods unknown to the civil procedure, but are
     responsible for an abuse of the power; and that the martial law, as
     a necessary adjunct of military movements, may be enforced in time
     of invasion or rebellion, wherever the influence and effect of
     these movements directly extends.'[6]

[Footnote 6: §716 of 'An Introduction to Municipal Law,' by John Norton Pomeroy, Esq., Professor
of Law in the New York University Law School. The whole chapter from which the extract is taken
is worthy of diligent perusal, and the writer regrets that want of space alone prevents him
quoting more fully from Professor Pomeroy's lucid exposition of the doctrine of martial law
under our Constitution.]

These conclusions of the law are worthy to be considered carefully in view of the solemn resolutions
of the Chicago platform, that 'military necessity' and the 'war power' are 'mere pretences'
to override the Constitution.

It remains to say, with reference to the third and fifth resolutions of this platform, that
they are chargeable with an equal and common ignorance: the third, in ignoring the necessity
of the presence of the military at the elections referred to, in order that disloyalty and
treason might not openly defy the authority of the nation; the fifth, in ignoring two things,
first, the monstrous baseness of the rebel treatment of our prisoners, who have been starved
alive, with a refinement of cruelty reserved for this Christian age, and practised only by
the Christian chivalry of the South; and secondly, the rebel refusal to exchange prisoners
man for man; the resolution seeking, moreover, to charge upon the United States Government
the fault of both these rebel violations of humanity. It may be asked, moreover, in further
reference to the third resolution, if the convention really meant to pledge itself to revolution;[7]
and why, if the President, as chief of 'the military authority of the United States,' should
be guilty of any abuses, the proper remedy is not by impeachment, as provided in the Constitution?
The language of this resolution is gravely suggestive, and cannot be too closely criticised.
It seems to shadow forth some dark design, which surely is in harmony with the whole tone of
hostility to our Government that pervades the platform. Taken, moreover, in connection with
the fact that the Chicago Convention declared itself a permanent body, subject to the call
of the chairman, this criticism does not seem unreasonable; for permanent conventions have
generally been the beginning of revolution.

[Footnote 7: The third resolution is, 'That the direct interference of the military authority
of the United States in the recent elections held in Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, and Delaware,
was a shameful violation of the Constitution, and the repetition of such acts in the approaching
election will be held as revolutionary, and resisted with all the means and power under our
control.']

THE BALTIMORE PLATFORM.

The Baltimore platform consists of eleven resolutions; and we may perceive at a glance the
important respect in which it differs from the one adopted at Chicago. That confines itself
to criticism and censure of those who are striving to uphold the Constitution and the Union
against an armed rebellion, which it does not so much as by a single word condemn. This declares
the purpose of the people 'to aid the Government in quelling by force the rebellion now raging
against its authority;' so that its power shall be felt throughout the whole extent of our
territory, and its blessings be restored to every section of the Union.

It is impossible to overlook this essential distinction of the two platforms. The one is full
of the captious complaint of partisanship, intent on power, and oblivious of the highest duty
of patriotism in this hour of the country's need; the other recognizes no higher duty now than
the union of all parties for the sake of the Union. The one vainly cries peace when there is
no peace; the other thinks not of peace except in and through the Union, without which there
cannot be peace. Above all, the one takes us back to the former times of purely party strife,
and seeks to revive the political issues of the past; the other, leaving 'the dead past to
bury its dead,' keeps pace with the living present, and looks forward to a future of glory
in a restored and regenerated Union. For it is folly to suppose there can ever again be 'the
Union as it was.' This is a superficial phrase, which it is marvellous that any reflecting
person can delude himself with. 'The Constitution as it is' is the motto that condemns it;
for under the Constitution we are to have 'a more perfect Union,' as our fathers designed,
and so stated in the Constitution itself. We are to have a constitutional Union in which every
right guaranteed by the Constitution shall be maintained; and this was not so in 'the Union
as it was.'

Thus it is that the Baltimore platform, after pledging the people to maintain 'the paramount
authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States,' and approving the 'determination
of the Government not to compromise' this authority, but holding out the same Constitution
and laws as our only and the sufficient 'terms of peace' to all who will accept them, proceeds
to take notice of what none but the wilfully blind fail to perceive, the changed aspect of
the slavery question. It is impossible to hold the same position to-day in regard to this vexed
question as in the days before the war. As an element of the politics of this country its aspect
is wholly changed, and there is no sort of consistency in upholding our opinions of four years
ago in reference to it. We do well to remember that consistency is not obstinacy. It is not
an absolute, but a relative thing, and takes note of all the new elements which are ever entering
into public affairs. The criterion of one's political consistency in our country is unfaltering
devotion to the Union. If the measures he advocates look always to its paramount authority,
his record is truly and honorably inconsistent. On the other hand, he who forgets the end of
his labors in the ardor of seeking to save the means, is chargeable with the grossest inconsistency.
What, therefore, consists with the perpetuity and strength of the Union? is the question which
the American patriot proposes to himself.

It is in reference to this question that the Baltimore Platform challenges comparison with
the one adopted at Chicago. For guided by the experience of the past four years (the culmination
of fifty years' experience), and noting without fear the facts which that experience has revealed
as in the clear light of midday, it declares that slavery is inconsistent with the existence
of the Union. Does anybody deny it? Men tell us that the Union and slavery have heretofore,
for more than half a century, existed together, and why may they not continue to exist in harmonious
conjunction for the next half century? We are asked, moreover, with sarcastic disdain, if our
wisdom is superior to that of the fathers. Our wisdom is not, indeed, superior to that of the
fathers of the republic, but it would be far beneath it, and we should be unworthy sons of
such fathers, if we undertook to carry out, in 1864, the policies and measures of 1764. The
progress of affairs has developed the antagonism that was only latent before, but which, nevertheless,
some of the wisest of our fathers foresaw; and it is now very clear that there is a terrible
antagonism (no longer latent) between slavery and the principles that underlie the Constitution.
The time has come to vindicate the wisdom of the Constitution by utterly removing what seeks
to disgrace and destroy it--as it were a viper in the bosom of the nation.

We must show that our Government is strong enough not only to control, but also destroy, the
interest which arrays itself in arms and war against it. It is useless, surely, to deny that
the Southern Confederacy means slavery. Over and over again the Southern journals have asserted,
and Southern politicians have said, that free labor was a mistake, and that slavery was the
true condition of labor. That these are the deliberate convictions of the Southern leaders,
and these the doctrines on which the Montgomery constitution is based, no reflecting person
can hesitate to believe; and the boastful declaration of the rebel vice-president, that slavery
was the corner stone of the rebel confederacy, serves to confirm our conclusion beyond possibility
of doubt. What these things prove is nothing more nor less than that the Union with such an
element in it to feed the ambition of politicians with, as this slavery has shown itself to
be, is henceforth impossible. For we see now that for the sake of slavery the slaveholding
leaders are willing to destroy the Government. Who can complain if the basis of their rebellious
scheme is annihilated? The answer to those who say, Touch tenderly the institutions of the
South, is, Nay, but let them first cease their rebellion. Therefore, so long as the rebellion
lifts its unblushing front against the Government, so long it is the duty of every lover of
the Government, in the language of the third resolution of this platform, to 'uphold and maintain
the acts and proclamations by which the Government, in its own defence, has aimed a death blow
at this gigantic evil.'

But that makes us, Abolitionists, says the reader. Be it so. Are we not willing to be Abolitionists
for the sake of saving the Constitution and the Union? And if, despising our proffers of 'the
Constitution as it is,' which we have now held out to them for three years and a half, the
rebels continue to defy the authority of the Government, who can complain if we proceed to
adopt an amendment to the Constitution that shall leave no possibility of slaveholding treason
hereafter? Surely none but themselves. Let them, then, come back and vote against it; for three
fourths of all the States must concur in such an amendment before it can become part of the
Constitution. Ah, the leaders of the Southern rebellion know full well how the great masses
at the South would vote on such a measure! Let us be ready, then, acting not for ourselves
alone, but also for our deluded brethren of the South, who are to-day the victims of a military
usurpation the most monstrous the world ever saw, to put the finishing stroke to the scheme
of this Confederate rebellion by adopting the proposed amendment.

We are to consider, furthermore, that from the issuing of the Proclamation dates the organization
of negro troops--a measure that is destined to affect materially the future composition, as
it is believed, of our regular army. This is 'the employment as Union soldiers of men heretofore
held in slavery,' which the fifth resolution asks us to approve. Can we not approve it? The
fighting qualities of the despised 'niggers' (as South Carolina chivalry terms the gallant
fellows who followed Colonel Shaw to the deadly breach of Wagner, reckless of all things save
the stars and stripes they fought under) have been tested on many battle fields. He whose heart
does not respond in sympathy with their heroism on those fields, while defending from disgrace
his country's flag, need not approve. The approval of the country will be given, nevertheless.
There can be nothing better said, on this point than President Lincoln's own words, as reported
lately by Judge Mills, of Wisconsin, to whom the President uttered them in conversation. They
are full of a feeling of the speaker's responsibility to God and his country; and the man who
cares not for his responsibility to God, may well be distrusted by his country. Is he who speaks
these words of patriotism a tyrant and usurper? Are not the words convincing proof that President
Lincoln is honest and faithful and capable? That in this hour of the country's crisis, in this
life struggle of the nation with foes both open and secret, there should be 'harmony in the
national councils;' that men once clothed in the uniform of United States soldiers become entitled
to 'the full protection of the laws of war,' as forming part of the nation's defenders when
those who ought to be its defenders have joined in an unholy sedition to destroy its life;
that 'foreign immigration,' deserves especial encouragement at a time when the demands of the
army leave the places of home labor without adequate means of refilling them; that a Pacific
Railroad, uniting the extreme Western portion of the Union with all the other sections, and
thus bringing within nearer reach of our California and Oregon countrymen all the advantages
and facilities of the Government, while at the same time binding more closely the ties that
make us one people with the West equally with the South; and that the nation's faith with all
its creditors must be strictly kept, be the cost what it may; all these are duties which the
terrible emergency of the hour only makes more imperative and exacting of fulfilment than ever
before.

The eleventh and last resolution commits the country anew to the Monroe Doctrine. In view of
the great crime that is enacting in Mexico, where a foreign power has assumed to change the
Government of that afflicted country at its own arbitrary will, the declaration that we have
not abandoned the doctrine is appropriate and necessary. It is a warning that our eyes are
not closed to the schemes on foot for the suppression of republican government on this continent.
While our present necessity compels us, as of course, to act with great circumspection, yet
it would be unbecoming our dignity to quietly ignore the spoliation of Mexico. It is often
said that President Lincoln, in his letter accepting the Baltimore nomination, has repudiated
this resolution. The time for the enforcement of that doctrine has not yet come, and this seems
to be the position that has been assumed by the Government. It certainly is the position of
common sense and patriotism.

       *       *       *       *       *

The candid reader has now before him a brief exposition of the two platforms, and of the doctrines
and bearing of each. It is believed that nothing has been extenuated; nor, on the other hand,
has aught been here set down in malice. Let every one study the platforms and try conclusions
for himself; then say whether the foregoing discussion could well have shaped itself differently.
The sum of the whole matter seems to be, War and Union, or Peace and Disunion. If we have Union,
it can only be now through war. We must 'seek peace with the sword.' The rebels have appealed
from the civil law to the military law, from the Constitution to the sword; let us not shrink
from the ordeal. No revolution to perpetuate oppression can hope for the favor of a God of justice.

There are two platforms in this Presidential campaign, representing the two parties into which
the voters will be divided. But there is a third party, without platform and without vote,
which has, nevertheless, interests at stake transcending even ours. Let the calmly considered
words of an impartial English journal,[8] which wishes well to our country, speak, in conclusion,
on behalf of that third party:

     'There are three parties to the American war. There are the slaves,
     the bondsmen of the South, whose flight was restrained by the
     Fugitive Bill, and whose wrongs have brought about the disruption;
     there are the Confederates, who, when Southern supremacy in the
     republic was menaced by the election of Abraham Lincoln, threw off
     their allegiance; and there are the Government and its supporters,
     who are striving to restore the integrity of the Union. These are
     the three parties; and as the war has gone on from year to year,
     the cause of the negro has brightened, and hundreds of thousands of
     the African race have passed out of slavery into freedom. They
     flock in multitudes within the Federal lines, and take their stand
     under the Constitution as free men. Abandoned by their former
     masters, or flying from their fetters, the chattels become
     citizens, and rejoice. No matter what their misery, they keep their
     faces to the North, and bear up under their privations. Every
     advance of the national army liberates new throngs, and they rush
     eagerly to the camps where their brethren are cared for. The
     exodus, continually going on, increases in volume.

     [Footnote 8: London Inquirer.]

     'Such are the colored freedmen, the innocent victims of the war,
     the slaves whom it has marvellously enfranchised; such are the
     dusky clouds that flit o'er the continent of America and settle
     down on strange lands--the harbingers of a social revolution in the
     great republic of the West. More than fifty thousand are formed
     into camps in the Mississippi Valley, and not fewer in Middle and
     East Tennessee and North Alabama. It is a vast responsibility which
     is cast upon the Government and the people of the North, a sore and
     mighty burden; and proportionate are the efforts which have been
     made to meet the trying emergency. The Government finds rations for
     the negro camps, provides free carriage for the contributions of
     the humane, appoints surgeons and superintendents, enlists in the
     army the men who are suitable, and, as far as possible, gives
     employment to all. Clothing and other necessaries are forwarded to
     the camps by the ton by benevolent hands, and books for the schools
     by tens of thousands. All along the banks of the Mississippi, from
     Cairo to New Orleans, and in Arkansas and Tennessee, the aged and
     infirm fugitives, the women and children, are collected into
     colored colonies, and tended and taught with a care that is worthy
     of a great and Christian people. All that can work are more than
     willing to do so; they labor gladly; and among old and young there
     is an eager desire for education. Books are coveted as badges of
     freedom; and the negro soldier carries them with him wherever he
     goes, and studies them whenever he can. It is a great work which is
     in progress across the Atlantic. Providence, in a manner which man
     foresaw not, is solving a dark problem of the past, and we may well
     look on with awe and wonder. There were thousands of minds which
     apprehended the downfall of the 'peculiar institution.' There were
     a prophetic few, who clearly perceived that it would be purged away
     by no milder scourge than that of war. But there were none who
     dreamed that the slaveholder would be the Samson to bring down the
     atrocious system of human slavery by madly taking arms in its
     defence! Yet so it was; and the Divine penalty is before us. The
     wrath of man has worked out the retributive justice of God. The
     crime which a country would not put away from it has ended in war,
     and slavery is a ruin.'

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY NOTICES unavoidably postponed until the ensuing issue of THE CONTINENTAL.

