THE

LONDON and COUNTRY

BREWER

1736

Containing an Account,

I.     Of the Nature of the Barley-Corn, and of the proper Soils and
       Manures for the Improvement thereof.

II.    Of making good Malts.

III.   To know good from bad Malts.

IV.    Of the Use of the Pale, Amber, and Brown Malts.

V.     Of the Nature of several Waters, and their Use in Brewing.

VI.    Of Grinding Malts.

VII.   Of Brewing in general.

VIII.  Of the London Method of Brewing Stout, But-Beer, Pale and Brown
       Ales.

IX.    Of the Country or Private Way of Brewing.

X.     Of the Nature and Use of the Hop.

XI.    Of Boiling Malt liquors, and to Brew a Quantity of Drink in a little
       Room, and with a few Tubs.

XII.   Of Foxing or Tainting of Malt Liquors; their Prevention and Cure.

XIII.  Of Fermenting and Working of Beers and Ales, and the unwholesome
       Practice of Beating in the Yeast, detected.

XIV.   Of several artificial Lees for feeding, fining, preserving, and
       relishing Malt Liquors.

XV.    Of several pernicious Ingredients put into Malt Liquors to encrease
       their Strength.

XVI.   Of the Cellar or Repository for keeping Beers and Ales.

XVII.  Of Sweetening and Cleaning Casks.

XVIII. Of Bunging Casks and Carrying them to some Distance.

XIX.   Of the Age and Strength of Malt Liquors.

XX.    Of the Profit and Pleasure of Private Brewing and the Charge of
       Buying Malt Liquors.

To which is added,

XXI.   A Philosophical Account of Brewing Strong October Beer.
       By an Ingenious Hand.

By a Person formerly concerned in a Common Brewhouse at London, but for twenty Years past has
resided in the Country.

The SECOND EDITION, Corrected.

LONDON

Printed for Messeurs Fox, at the Half-Moon and Seven Stars, in Westminster-Hall.  M.DCC.XXXVI.

[Price Two Shillings.]

THE PREFACE.

The many Inhabitants of Cities and Towns, as well as Travellers, that have for a long time
suffered great Prejudices from unwholsome and unpleasant Beers and Ales, by the badness of
Malts, underboiling the Worts, mixing injurious Ingredients, the unskilfulness of the Brewer,
and the great Expense that Families have been at in buying them clogg'd with a heavy Excise,
has moved me to undertake the writing of this Treatise on Brewing, Wherein I have endeavour'd
to set in sight the many advantages of Body and Purse that may arise from a due Knowledge and
Management in Brewing Malt Liquors, which are of the greatest Importance, as they are in a
considerable degree our Nourishment and the common Diluters of our Food; so that on their goodness
depends very much the Health and Longevity of the Body.

This bad Economy in Brewing has brought on such a Disrepute, and made our Malt Liquors in general
so odious, that many have been constrain'd, either to be at an Expence for better Drinks than
their Pockets could afford, or take up with a Toast and Water to avoid the too justly apprehended
ill Consequences of Drinking such Ales and Beers.

Wherefore I have given an Account of Brewing Beers and Ales after several Methods; and also
several curious Receipts for feeding, fining and preserving Malt Liquors, that are most of
them wholsomer than the Malt itself, and so cheap that none can object against the Charge,
which I thought was the ready way to supplant the use of those unwholsome Ingredients that
have been made too free with by some ill principled People meerly for their own Profit, tho'
at the Expence of the Drinker's Health.

I hope I have adjusted that long wanted Method of giving a due Standard both to the Hop and
Wort, which never was yet (as I know of) rightly ascertain'd in Print before, tho' the want
of it I am perswaded has been partly the occasion of the scarcity of good Drinks, as is at
this time very evident in most Places in the Nation. I have here also divulg'd the Nostrum
of the Artist Brewer that he has so long valued himself upon, in making a right Judgment when
the Worts are boiled to a true Crisis; a matter of considerable Consequence, because all strong
Worts may be boiled too much or too little to the great Loss of the Owner, and without this
Knowledge a Brewer must go on by Guess; which is a hazard that every one ought to be free from
that can; and therefore I have endeavor'd to explode the old Hour-glass way of Brewing, by
reason of the several Uncertainties that attend such Methods and the hazard of spoiling both
Malt and Drink; for in short where a Brewing is perform'd by Ladings over of scalding Water,
there is no occasion for the Watch or Hour-glass to boil the Wort by, which is best known by
the Eye, as I have both in this and my second Book made appear.

I have here observed that necessary Caution, which is perfectly requisite in the Choice of
good and the Management of bad Waters; a Matter of high Importance, as the Use of this Vehicle
is unavoidable in Brewing, and therefore requires a strict Inspection into its Nature; and
this I have been the more particular in, because I am sensible of the great Quantities of unwholsome
Waters used not only by Necessity, but by a mistaken Choice.

So also I have confuted the old received Opinion lately published by an Eminent Hand, that
long Mashings are the best Methods in Brewing; an Error of dangerous Consequence to all those
who brew by Ladings over of the hot Water on the Malt.

The great Difficulty and what has hitherto proved an Impediment and Discouragement to many
from Brewing their own Drinks, I think, I have in some measure removed, and made it plainly
appear how a Quantity of Malt Liquor may be Brewed in a little Room and in the hottest Weather,
without the least Damage by Foxing or other Taint.

The Benefit of Brewing entire Guile small Beer from fresh Malt, and the ill Effects of that
made from Goods after strong Beer or Ale; I have here exposed, for the sake of the Health and
Pleasure of those that may easily prove their advantage by drinking of the former and refusing
the latter.

By the time the following Treatise is read over and thoroughly considered, I doubt not but
an ordinary Capacity will be in some degree a better Judge of good and bad Malt Liquors as
a Drinker, and have such a Knowledge in Brewing that formerly he was a stranger to; and therefore
I am in great Hopes these my Efforts will be one Principal Cause of the reforming our Malt
Liquors in most Places; and that more private Families than ever will come into the delightful
and profitable Practice of Brewing their own Drinks, and thereby not only save almost half
in half of Expence, but enjoy such as has passed thro' its regular Digestions, and is truly
pleasant, fine, strong and healthful.

I Question not but this Book will meet with some Scepticks, who being neither prejudiced against
the Introduction of new Improvements, or that their Interests will be hereby eclipsed in time;
To such I say I do not write, because I have little hopes to reform a wrong Practice in them
by Reason and Argument. But those who are above Prejudice may easily judge of the great Benefits
that will accrue by the following Methods, I have here plainly made known, and of those in
my Second Book that I have almost finished and hope to publish in a little time, wherein I
shall set forth how to Brew without boiling Water or Wort, and several other Ways that will
be of considerable Service to the World.

CHAP.

This Grain is well known to excel all others for making of Malts that produce those fine British
Liquors, Beer and Ale, which no other Nation can equalize; But as this Excellency cannot be
obtain'd unless the several Ingredients are in a perfect State and Order, and these also attended
with a right judgment; I shall here endeavour to treat on their several particulars, and first
of Soils.

This Grain I annually sow in my Fields on diversities of Soils, and thereby have brought to
my knowledge several differences arising therefrom. On our Red Clays this Grain generally comes
off reddish at both ends, and sometimes all over, with a thick skin and tuff nature, somewhat
like the Soil it grows in, and therefore not so valuable as that of contrary qualities, nor
are the black blewish Marly Clays of the Vale much better, but Loams are, and Gravels better
than them, as all the Chalks are better then Gravels; on these two last Soils the Barley acquires
a whitish Body, a thin skin, a short plump kernel, and a (unreadable) flower, which occasions
those, fine pale and amber Malts made at Dunstable, Tring and Dagnal from the Barley that comes
off the white and gravelly Grounds about those Places; for it is certain there is as much difference
in Barley as in Wheat or other Grain, from the sort it comes off, as appears by the excellent
Wheats that grow in the marly vale Earths, Peas in Sands, and Barley in Gravels and Chalks,
&c. For our Mother Earth, as it is destinated to the service of Man in the production of Vegetables,
is composed of various sorts of Soils for different Seeds to grow therein. And since Providence
has been pleased to allow Man this great privilege for the imployment of his skill and labour
to improve the same to his advantage; it certainly behoves us to acquaint ourselves with its
several natures, and how to adapt an agreeable Grain and Manure to their natural Soil, as being
the very foundation of enjoying good and bad Malts. This is obvious by parallel Deductions
from Turneps sown on rank clayey loamy Grounds, dressed with noxious Dungs that render them
bitter, tuff, and nauseous, while those that grow on Gravels, Sands and Chalky Loams under
the assistance of the Fold, or Soot, Lime, Ashes, Hornshavings, &c. are sweet (unreadable)
and pleasant. 'Tis the same also with salads, Asparagus, Cabbages, Garden-beans and all other
culinary Ware, that come off those rich Grounds glutted with the great quantities of London
and other rank Dungs which are not near so pure, sweet and wholsome, as those produced from
Virgin mould and other healthy Earths and Manures.

There is likewise another reason that has brought a disreputation on some of the Chiltern-barley,
and that is, the too often sowing of one and the same piece of Ground, whereby its spirituous,
nitrous and sulphureous qualities are exhausted and worn out, by the constant attraction of
its best juices for the nutriment of the Grain: To supply which, great quantities of Dungs
are often incorporated with such Earths, whereby they become impregnated with four, adulterated,
unwholsome qualities, that so affect the Barley that grows therein, as to render it incapable
of making such pure and sweet Malts, as that which is sown in the open Champaign-fields, whose
Earths are constantly rested every third Year called the Fallow-season, in order to discharge
their crude, phlegmatick and sour property, by the several turnings that the Plough gives them
part of a Winter and one whole Summer, which exposes the rough, clotty loose parts of the Ground,
and by degrees brings them into a condition of making a lodgment of those saline benefits that
arise from the Earths, and afterwards fall down, and redound so much to the benefit of all
Vegetables that grow therein, as being the essence and spring of Life to all things that have
root, and tho' they are first exhaled by the Sun in vapour from the Earth as the spirit or
breath thereof, yet is it return'd again in Snows, Hails, Dews, etc. more than in Rains, by
which the surface of the Globe is saturated; from whence it reascends in the juices of Vegetables,
and enters into all those productions as food, and nourishment, which the Creation supplies.

Here then may appear the excellency of steeping Seed-barley in a liquor lately invented, that
impregnates and loads it with Nitre and other Salts that are the nearest of all others to the
true and original Spirit or Salt of the Earth, and therefore in a great measure supplies the
want thereof both in inclosure and open Field; for even in this last it is sometimes very scarce,
and in but small quantities, especially after a hot dry Summer and mild Winter, when little
or no Snows have fell to cover the Earth and keep this Spirit in; by which and great Frosts
it is often much encreased and then shews itself in the warmth of well Waters, that are often
seen to wreak in the cold Seasons. Now since all Vegetables more or less partake of those qualities
that the Soil and Manures abound with in which they grow; I therefore infer that all Barley
so imbibed, improves its productions by the ascension of those saline spirituous particles
that are thus lodged in the Seed when put into the Ground, and are part of the nourishment
the After-Crop enjoys; and for this reason I doubt not, but when time has got the ascendant
of prejudice, the whole Nation will come into the practice of the invaluable Receipt published
in two Books, entituled, Chiltern and Vale Farming Explained, and, The Practical Farmer; both
writ by William Ellis of Little Gaddesden near Hempstead in Hertfordshire, not only for Barley,
but other Grains.

But notwithstanding Barley may grow on a light Soil with a proper Manure; and improved by the
liquor of this Receipt, yet this Grain may be damaged or spoiled by being mown too soon, which
may afterwards be discovered by its shrivelled and lean body that never will make right good
Malt; or if it is mown at a proper time, and if it be housed damp, or wettish, it will be apt
to heat and mow-burn, and then it will never make so good Malt, because it will not spire,
nor come so regularly on the floor as that which was inned dry.

Again, I have known one part of a Barley-crop almost green at Harvest, another part ripe, and
another part between both, tho' it was all sown at once, occasion'd by the several situations
of the Seed in the Ground, and the succeeding Droughts. The deepest came up strong and was
ripe soonest, the next succeeded; but the uppermost, for want of Rain and Cover, some of it
grew not at all, and the rest was green at Harvest. Now these irregularities are greatly prevented
and cured by the application of the ingredients mentioned in the Receipt, which infuses such
a moisture into the body of the Seed, as with the help of a little Rain and the many Dews,
makes it spire, take root and grow, when others are ruined for want of the assistance of such
steeping.

Barley like other Grain will also degenerate, and become rank, lean and small bodied, if the
same Seed is sown too often in the Soil; 'tis therefore that the best Farmers not only change
the Seed every time, but take due care to have it off a contrary Soil that they sow it in to;
this makes several in my neighbourhood every Year buy their Barley-seed in the Vale of Ailsbury,
that grew there on the black clayey marly Loams, to sow in Chalks, Gravels, &c. Others every
second Year will go from hence to Fullham and buy the Forward or Rath-ripe Barley that grows
there on Sandy-ground; both which Methods are great Improvements of this Corn, and whether
it be for sowing or malting, the plump, weighty and white Barley- corn, is in all respects
much kinder than the lean flinty Sorts.

CHAP. II

Of making Malts.

As I have described the Ground that returns the best Barley, I now come to treat of making
it into Malt; to do which, the Barley is put into a leaden or tyled Cistern that holds five,
ten or more Quarters, that is covered with water four or six Inches above the Barley to allow
for its Swell; here it lyes five or six Tides as the Malster calls it, reckoning twelve Hours
to the Tide, according as the Barley is in body or in dryness; for that which comes off Clays,
or has been wash'd and damag'd by Rains, requires less time than the dryer Grain that was inned
well and grew on Gravels or Chalks; the smooth plump Corn imbibing the water more kindly, when
the lean and steely Barley will not so naturally; but to know when it is enough, is to take
a Corn end-ways between the Fingers and gently crush it, and if it is in all parts mellow,
and the husk opens or starts a little from the body of the Corn, then it is enough: The nicety
of this is a material Point; for if it is infus'd too much, the sweetness of the Malt will
be greatly taken off, and yield the less Spirit, and so will cause deadness and sourness in
Ale or Beer in a short time, for the goodness of the Malt contributes much to the preservation
of all Ales and Beers. Then the water must be drain'd from it very well, and it will come equal
and better on the floor, which may be done in twelve or sixteen Hours in temperate weather,
but in cold, near thirty. From the Cistern it is put into a square Hutch or Couch, where it
must lye thirty Hours for the Officer to take his Gage, who allows four Bushels in the Score
for the Swell in this or the Cistern, then it must be work'd Night and Day in one or two Heaps
as the weather is cold or hot, and turn'd every four, six or eight Hours, the outward part
inwards and the bottom upwards, always keeping a clear floor that the Corn that lies next to
it be not chill'd; and as soon as it begins to come or spire, then turn it every three, four
or five Hours, as was done before according to the temper of the Air, which greatly governs
this management, and as it comes or works more, so must the Heap be spreaded and thinned larger
to cool it. Thus it may lye and be work'd on the floor in several parallels, two or three Foot
thick, ten or more Foot broad, and fourteen or more in length to Chip and Spire; but not too
much nor too soft; and when it is come enough, it is to be turned twelve or sixteen times in
twenty-four Hours, if the Season is warm, as in March, April or May; and when it is fixed and
the Root begins to be dead, then it must be thickned again and carefully kept often turned
and work'd, that the growing of the Root may not revive, and this is better done with the Shoes
off than on; and here the Workman's Art and Diligence in particular is tryed in keeping the
floor clear and turning the Malt often, that it neither moulds nor Aker-spires, that is, that
the Blade does not grow out at the opposite end of the Root; for if it does, the flower and
strength of the Malt is gone, and nothing left behind but the Aker-spire, Husk and Tail: Now
when it is at this degree and fit for the Kiln, it is often practised to put it into a Heap
and let it lye twelve Hours before it is turned, to heat and mellow, which will much improve
the Malt if it is done with moderation, and after that time it must be turned every six Hours
during twenty four; but if it is overheated, it will become like Grease and be spoiled, or
at least cause the Drink to be unwholsome; when this Operation is over, it then must be put
on the Kiln to dry four, six or twelve Hours, according to the nature of the Malt, for the
pale sort requires more leisure and less fire than the amber or brown sorts: Three Inches thick
was formerly thought a sufficient depth for the Malt to lye on the Hair-cloth, but now six
is often allowed it to a fault; fourteen or sixteen Foot square will dry about two Quarters
if the Malt lyes four Inches thick, and here it should be turned every two, three or four Hours
keeping the Hair-cloth clear: The time of preparing it from the  Cistern to the Kiln is uncertain;
according to the Season of the Year; in moderate weather three Weeks is often sufficient. If
the Exciseman takes his Gage on the floor he allows ten in the Score, but he sometimes Gages
in Cistern, Couch, Floor and Kiln, and where he can make most, there he fixes his Charge: When
the Malt is dryed, it must not cool on the Kiln, but be directly thrown off, not into a Heap,
but spreaded wide in an airy place, till it is thoroughly cool, then put it into a Heap or
otherwise dispose of it.

There are several methods used in drying of Malts, as the Iron Plate-frame, the Tyle-frame,
that are both full of little Holes: The Brass-wyred and Iron-wyred Frame, and the Hair-cloth;
the Iron and Tyled one, were chiefly Invented for drying of brown Malts and saving of Fuel,
for these when they come to be thorough hot will make the Corns crack and jump by the fierceness
of their heat, so that they will be roasted or scorch'd in a little time, and after they are
off the Kiln, to plump the body of the Corn and make it take the Eye, some will sprinkle water
over it that it may meet with the better Market. But if such Malt is not used quickly, it will
slacken and lose its Spirits to a great degree, and perhaps in half a Year or less may be taken
by the Whools and spoiled: Such hasty dryings or scorchings are also apt to bitter the Malt
by burning its skin, and therefore these Kilns are not so much used now as formerly: The Wyre-frames
indeed are something better, yet they are apt to scorch the outward part of the Corn, that
cannot be got off so soon as the Hair-cloth admits of, for these must be swept, when the other
is only turned at once; however these last three ways are now in much request for drying pale
and amber Malts, because their fire may be kept with more leisure, and the Malt more gradually
and truer dyed, but by many the Hair-cloth is reckoned the best of all.

Malts are dryed with several sorts of Fuel; as the Coak, Welch-coal, Straw, Wood and Fern,
&c. But the Coak is reckoned by most to exceed all others for making Drink of the finest Flavour
and pale Colour, because it sends no smoak forth to hurt the Malt with any offensive tang,
that Wood, Fern and Straw are apt to do in a lesser or greater degree; but there is a difference
even in what is call'd Coak, the right sort being large Pit- coal chark'd or burnt in some
measure to a Cinder, till all the Sulphur is consumed and evaporated away, which is called
Coak, and this when it is truly made is the best of all other Fuels; but if there is but one
Cinder as big as an Egg, that is not thoroughly cured, the smoak of this one is capable of
doing a little damage, and this happens too often by the negligence or avarice of the Coak-maker:
There is another sort by some wrongly called Coak, and rightly named Culme or Welch-coal, from
Swanzey in Pembrokeshire, being of a hard stony substance in small bits resembling a shining
Coal, and will burn without smoak, and by its sulphureous effluvia cast a most excellent whiteness
on all the outward parts of the grainy body: In Devonshire I have seen their Marble or grey
Fire-stone burnt into Lime with the strong fire that this Culme makes, and both this and the
Chark'd Pit-coal affords a most sweet moderate and certain fire to all Malt that is dryed by it.

Straw is the next sweetest Fuel, but Wood and Fern worst of all.

Some I have known put a Peck or more of Peas, and malt them with five Quarters of Barley, and
they'll greatly mellow the Drink, and so will Beans; but they won't come so soon, nor mix so
conveniently with the Malt, as the Pea will.

I knew a Farmer, when he sends five Quarters of Barley to be Malted, puts in half a Peck or
more of Oats amongst them, to prove he has justice done him by the Maker, who is hereby confin'd
not to Change his Malt by reason others won't like such a mixture.

But there is an abuse sometimes committed by a necessitous Malster, who to come by Malt sooner
than ordinary, makes use of Barley before it is thoroughly sweated in the Mow, and then it
never makes right Malt, but will be steely and not yield a due quantity of wort, as I knew
it once done by a Person that thrashed the Barley immediately from the Cart as it was brought
out of the Field, but they that used its Malt suffered not a little, for it was impossible
it should be good, because it did not thoroughly Chip or Spire on the floor, which caused this
sort of Malt, when the water was put to it in the Mash-tub, to swell up and absorb the Liquor,
but not return its due quantity again, as true Malt would, nor was the Drink of this Malt ever
good in the Barrel, but remain'd a raw insipid beer, past the Art of Man to Cure, because this,
like Cyder made from Apples directly off the Tree, that never sweated out their phlegmatick
crude juice in the heap, cannot produce a natural Liquor from such unnatural management; for
barley certainly is not fit to make Malt of until it is fully mellowed and sweated in the Mow,
and the Season of the Year is ready for it, without both which there can be no assurance of
good Malt: Several instances of this untimely making Malt I have known to happen, that has
been the occasion of great quantities of bad Ales and Beers, for such Malt, retaining none
of its Barley nature, or that the Season of the Year is not cold enough to admit of its natural
working on the Floor, is not capable of producing a true Malt, it will cause its Drink to stink
in the cask instead of growing fit for use, as not having its genuine Malt-nature to cure and
preserve it, which all good Malts contribute to as well as the Hop.

There is another damage I have known accrue to the Buyer of Malt by Mellilet, a most stinking
Weed that grows amongst some Barley, and is so mischievously predominant, as to taint it to
a sad degree because its black Seed like that of an Onion, being lesser than the Barley, cannot
be entirely separated, which obliges it to be malted with the Barley, and makes the Drink so
heady that it is apt to fuddle the unwary by drinking a small quantity. This Weed is so natural
to some Ground that the Farmer despairs of ever extirpating it, and is to be avoided as much
as possible, because it very much hurts the Drink that is made from Malt mixed with it, by
its nauseous Scent and Taste, as may be perceived by the Ointment made with it that bears its
Name: I knew a Victualler that bought a parcel of Malt that this weed was amongst, and it spoiled
all the Brewings and Sale of the Drink, for it's apt to cause Fevers, Colicks and other Distempers
in the Body.

Darnel is a rampant Weed and grows much amongst some Barley, especially in the bad Husbandman's
Ground, and most where it is sown with the Seed-barley: It does the least harm amongst Malt,
because it adds a strength to it, and quickly intoxicates, if there is much in it; but where
there is but little, the Malster regards it not, for the sake of its inebriating quality.

There are other Weeds or Seeds that annoy the Barley; but as the Screen, Sieve and throwing
will take most of them out, there does not require here a Detail of their Particulars. Oats
malted as Barley is, will make a weak, soft, mellow and pleasant Drink, but Wheat when done
so, will produce a strong heady nourishing well-tasted and fine Liquor, which is now more practised
then ever.

CHAP. III.

To know good from bad Malts.

This is a Matter of great Importance to all Brewers, both publick and private, for 'tis common
for the Seller to cry all is good, but the Buyer's Case is different; wherefore it is prudential
to endeavour to be Master of this Knowledge, but I have heard a great Malster that lived towards
Ware, say, he knew a grand Brewer, that wetted near two hundred Quarters a Week, was not a
judge of good and bad Malts, without which 'tis impossible to draw a true length of Ale or
Beer. To do this I know but of few Ways, First, By the Bite; Is to break the Malt Corn across
between the Teeth, in the middle of it or at both Ends, and if it tasteth mellow and sweet,
has a round body, breaks soft, is full of flower all its length, smells well and has a thin
skin, then it is good; Secondly, By Water; Is to take a Glass near full, and put in some Malt;
and if it swims, it is right, but if any sinks to the bottom, then it is not true Malt, but
steely and retains somewhat of its Barley nature; yet I must own this is not an infallible
Rule, because if a Corn of Malt is crack'd, split or broke, it will then take the water and
sink, but there may an allowance be given for such incidents, and still room enough to make
a judgment. Thirdly, Malt that is truly made will not be hard and steely, but of so mellow
a Nature, that if forced against a dry Board, will mark and cast a white Colour almost like
Chalk. Fourthly, Malt that is not rightly made will be part of it of a hard Barley nature,
and weigh heavier than that which is true Malt.

CHAP. IV.

 Of the Nature and Use of Pale, Amber and Brown Malts.

The pale Malt is the slowest and slackest dryed of any, and where it has had a leisure fire,
a sufficient time allowed it on the Kiln, and a due care taken of it; the flower of the grain
will remain in its full quantity, and thereby produce a greater length of wort, than the brown
high dryed Malt, for which reason it is sold for one or two shillings per Quarter more than
that: This pale Malt is also the most nutritious sort to the body of all others, as being in
this state the most simple and nearest to its Original Barley-corn, that will retain an Alcalous
and Balsamick quality much longer than the brown sort; the tender drying of this Malt bringing
its body into so soft a texture of Parts, that most of the great Brewers, brew it with Spring
and Well-waters, whose hard and binding Properties they think agrees best with this loose-bodied
Malt, either in Ales or Beer's and which will also dispense with hotter waters in brewing of
it, than the brown Malt can. The amber-colour'd Malt is that which is dryed in a medium degree,
between the pale and the brown, and is very much in use, as being free of either extream. Its
colour is pleasant, its taste agreeable and its nature wholsome, which makes it be prefer'd
by many as the best of Malts; this by some is brewed either with hard or soft waters, or a
mixture of both.

The brown Malt is the soonest and highest dryed of any, even till it is so hard, that it's
difficult to bite some of its Corns asunder, and is often so crusted or burnt, that the farinous
part loses a great deal of its essential Salts and vital Property, which frequently deceives
its ignorant Brewer, that hopes to draw as much Drink from a quarter of this, as he does from
pale or amber sorts: This Malt by some is thought to occasion the Gravel and Stone, besides
what is commonly called the Heart-burn; and is by its steely nature less nourishing than the
pale or amber Malts, being very much impregnated with the fiery fumiferous Particles of the
Kiln, and therefore its Drink sooner becomes sharp and acid than that made from the pale or
amber sorts, if they are all fairly brewed: For this reason the London Brewers mostly use the
Thames or New River waters to brew this Malt with, for the sake of its soft nature, whereby
it agrees with the harsh qualities of it better than any of the well or other hard Sorts, and
makes a luscious Ale for a little while, and a But-beer that will keep very well five or six
Months, but after that time it generally grows stale, notwithstanding there be ten or twelve
Bushels allowed to the Hogshead, and it be hopp'd accordingly.

Pale and amber Malts dryed with Coak or Culm, obtains a more clean bright pale Colour than
if dryed with any other Fuel, because there is not smoak to darken and sully their Skins or
Husks, and give them an ill relish, that those Malts little or more have, which are dryed with
Straw, Wood, or Fern, &c. The Coak or Welch Coal also makes more true and compleat Malt, as
I have before hinted, than any other Fuel, because its fire gives both a gentle and certain
Heat, whereby the Corns are in all their Parts gradually dryed, and therefore of late these
Malts have gained such a Reputation that great quantities have been consumed in most Parts
of the Nation for their wholsome Natures and sweet fine Taste: These make such fine Ales and
But-beers, as has tempted several of our Malsters in my Neighbour-hood to burn Coak or Culm
at a great expence of Carriage thirty Miles from London.

Next to the Coak-dryed Malt, the Straw-dryed is the sweetest and best tasted: This I must own
is sometimes well Malted where the Barley, Wheat, Straw, Conveniencies and the Maker's Skill
are good; but as the fire of the Straw is not so regular as the Coak, the Malt is attended
with more uncertainty in its making, because it is difficult to keep it to a moderate and equal
Heat, and also exposes the Malt in some degree to the taste of the smoak.

Brown Malts are dryed with Straw, Wood and Fern, &c. the Straw-dryed is not the best, but the
Wood sort has a most unnatural Taste, that few can bear with, but the necessitous, and those
that are accustomed to its strong smoaky tang; yet is it much used in some of the Western Parts
of England, and many thousand Quarters of this Malt has been formerly used in London for brewing
the Butt-keeping-beers with, and that because it sold for two Shillings per Quarter cheaper
than the Straw-dryed Malt, nor was this Quality of the Wood-dryed Malt much regarded by some
of its Brewers, for that its ill Taste is lost in nine or twelve Months, by the Age of the
Beer, and the strength of the great Quantity of Hops that were used in its Preservation.

The Fern-dryed Malt is also attended with a rank disagreeable Taste from the smoak of this
Vegetable, with which many Quarters of Malt are dryed, as appears by the great Quantities annually
cut by Malsters on our Commons, for the two prevalent Reasons of cheapness and plenty.

At Bridport in Dorsetshire, I knew an Inn-keeper use half Pale and half Brown Malt for Brewing
his Butt-beers, that, proved to my Palate the best I ever drank on the Road, which I think
may be accounted for, in that the Pale being the slackest, and the Brown the hardest dryed,
must produce a mellow good Drink by the help of a requisite Age, that will reduce those extreams
to a proper Quality.

CHAP. V.

Of the Nature of several Waters and their use in Brewing. And first of Well-waters.

Water next to Malt is what by course comes here under Consideration as a Matter of great Importance
in Brewing of wholsome fine Malt-liquors, and is of such Consequence that it concerns every
one to know the nature of the water he Brews with, because it is the Vehicle by which the nutritious
and pleasant Particles of the Malt and Hop are conveyed into our Bodies, and there becomes
a diluter of our Food: Now the more simple and freer every water is from foreign Particles,
the better it will answer those Ends and Purposes; for, as Dr.Mead observes, some waters are
so loaded with stony Corpuscles, that even the Pipes thro' which they are carried, in time
are incrusted and stopt up by them, and is of that petrifying nature as to breed the Stone
in the Bladder, which many of the Parisians have been instances of, by using this sort of water
out of the River Seine. And of this Nature is another at Rowel in Northamptonshire, which in
no great distance of time so clogs the Wheel of an overshot Mill there, that they are forced
with, convenient Instruments to cut way for its Motion; and what makes it still more evident,
is the sight of those incrusted Sides of the Tea-kettles, that the hard Well-waters are the
occasion of, by being often boiled in them: And it is further related by the same Doctor, that
a Gentlewoman afflicted with frequent returns of violent Colick Pains was cured by the Advice
of Van Helmont, only by leaving off drinking Beer brewed with Well-water; It's true, such a
fluid has a greater force and aptness to extract the tincture out of Malt, than is to be had
in the more innocent and soft Liquor of Rivers: But for this very reason it ought not, unless
upon meer necessity, to be made use of; this Quality being owing to the mineral Particles and
alluminous Salts with which it is impregnated. For these waters thus saturated, will by their
various gravities in circulation, deposit themselves in one part of the animal Body or other,
which has made some prove the goodness of Water by the lightness of its body in the Water Scales,
now sold in several of the London Shops, in order to avoid the Scorbutick, Colicky, Hypochondriack,
and other ill Effects of the Clayey and other gross Particles of stagnating Well-waters, and
the calculous Concretions of others; and therefore such waters ought to be mistrusted more
than any, where they are not pure clear and soft or that don't arise from good Chalks or stony
Rocks, that are generally allowed to afford the best of all the Well sorts.

Spring-waters are in general liable to partake of those minerals thro' which they pass, and
are salubrious or mischievous accordingly. At Uppingham in Rutland, their water is said to
come off an Allum-rock, and so tints their Beer with its saline Quality, that it is easily
tasted at the first Draught. And at Dean in Northamptonshire, I have seen the very Stones colour
the rusty Iron by the constant running of a Spring-water; but that which will Lather with Soap,
or such soft water that percolates through Chalk, or a Grey Fire-stone, is generally accounted
best, for Chalks in this respect excell all other Earths, in that it administers nothing unwholsome
to the perfluent waters, but undoubtedly absorps by its drying spungy Quality any ill minerals
that may accompany the water that runs thro' them. For which reason they throw in, great Quantities
of Chalk into their Wells at Ailsbury to soften their water, which coming off a black Sand-stone,
is so hard and sharp that it will often turn their Beer sour in a Week's time, so that in its
Original State it's neither fit to Wash nor Brew with, but so long as the Alcalous soft Particles
of the Chalk holds good, they put it to both uses.

River-waters are less liable to be loaded with metallick, petrifying, saline and other insanous
Particles of the Earth, than the Well or Spring sorts are, especially at some distance from
the Spring-head, because the Rain water mixes with and softens it, and are also much cured
by the Sun's heat and the Air's power, for which reason I have known several so strict, that
they won't let their Horses drink near the first rise of some of them; this I have seen the
sad Effects of, and which has obliged me to avoid two that run cross a Road in Bucks and Hertfordshire:
But in their runnings they often collect gross Particles from ouzy muddy mixtures, particularly
near Town, that make the Beer subject to new fermentations, and grow foul upon alteration of
weather as the Thames water generlly does; yet is this for its softness much better than the
hard sort, however both these waters are used by some Brewers as I shall hereafter observe;
but where a River-water can be had clear in a dry time, when no great Rain has lately fell
out of Rivulets or Rivers that have a Gravelly, Chalky, Sandy or Stone-bottom free from the
Disturbance of Cattle, &c. and in good Air, as that of Barkhamstead St. Peters in Hertfordshire
is; it may then justly claim the name of a most excellent water for Brewing, and will make
a stronger Drink with the same quantity of Malt than any of the Well-waters; insomuch that
that of the Thames has been proved to make as strong Beer with seven Bushels of Malt, as Well-water
with eight; and so are all River-waters in a proportionable degree, and where they can be obtain'd
clean and pure, Drink may be drawn fine in a few Days after Tunning.

Rain-water is very soft, of a most simple and pure nature, and the best Diluter of any, especially
if received free from Dirt, and the Salt of Mortar that often mixes with it as it runs off
tyled Roofs; this is very agreeable for brewing of Ales that are not to be kept a great while,
but for Beers that are to remain some time in the Casks, it is not so, well, as being apt to
putrify the soonest of any.

Pond-waters; this includes all standing waters chiefly from Rain, and are good or bad as they
happen; for where there is a clean bottom, and the water lies undisturbed from the tread of
Cattle, or too many Fish, in an open sound Air, in a large quantity, and where the Sun has
free access; it then comes near, if not quite as good as Rain or River-waters, as is that of
Blew-pot Pond on the high Green at Gaddesden in Hertfordshire and many others, which are often
prefer'd for Brewing, even beyond many of the soft Well-waters about them. But where it is
in a small quantity, or full of Fish (especially the sling Tench) or is so disturbed by Cattle
as to force up Mud and Filth; it is then the most foul and disagreeable of all others: So is
it likewise in long dry Seasons when our Pond-waters are so low as obliges us to strain it
thro' Sieves before we can use it, to take out the small red Worms and other Corruptions, that
our stagnant waters are generally then too full of. The latest and best Doctors have so far
scrutinized into the prime Cause of our British malady the Scurvy, as to affirm its first rise
is from our unwholesome stagnating waters, and especially those that come off a clayey surface,
as there are about Londonderry and Amsterdam, for that where the waters are worst, there this
Distemper is most common, so that in their Writings they have put it out of all doubt, that
most of our complicated symptoms that are rank'd under this general Name, if they don't take
their beginning from such water, do own it to be their chief Cause.

CHAP. VI.

 Of Grinding Malts.

As trifling as this Article in Brewing may seem at first it very worthily deserves the notice
of all concern'd therein, for on this depends much the good of our Drink, because if it is
ground too small the flower of the Malt will be the easier and more freely mix with the water,
and then will cause the wort to run thick, and therefore the Malt must be only just broke in
the Mill, to make it emit its Spirit gradually, and incorporate its flower with the water in
such a manner that first a stout Beer, then an Ale, and afterwards a small Beer may be had
at one and the same Brewing, and the wort run off fine and clear to the last. Many are likewise
so sagacious as to grind their brown Malt a Fortnight before they use it, and keep it in a
dry Place from the influence of too moist an Air, that it may become mellower by losing in
a great measure the fury of its harsh fiery Particles, and its steely nature, which this sort
of Malt acquires on the Kiln; however this as well as many other hard Bodies may be reduced
by Time and Air into a more soluble, mellow and soft Condition, and then it will imbibe the
water and give a natural kind tincture more freely, by which a greater quantity and stronger
Drink may be made, than if it was used directly from the Mill, and be much smoother and better
tasted. But the pale Malt will be fit for use at a Week's end, because the leisureness of their
drying endows them with a softness from the time they are taken off the Kiln to the time they
are brewed, and supplies in them what Time and Air must do in the brown sorts. This method
of grinding Malt so long before-hand can't be so conveniently practised by some of the great
Brewers, because several of them Brew two or three times a Week, but now most of them out of
good Husbandry grind their Malts into the Tun by the help of a long descending wooden Spout,
and here they save the Charge of emptying or uncasing it out of the Bin (which formerly they
used to do before this new way was discovered) and also the waste of a great deal of the Malt-flower
that was lost when carryed in Baskets, whereas now the Cover of the Tun presents all that Damage
In my common Brewhouse at London I ground my Malt between two large Stones by the Horse-mill
that with one Horse would grind [blank space] quarters an Hour, But in the Country I use a
steel Hand-mill,  that Cost at first forty Shillings; which will by the help of only one Man
grind six or eight Bushels in an Hour, and will last a Family many Years without hardning or
cutting: There are some old-fashion'd stone Hand-mills in being, that some are Votaries for
and prefer to the Iron ones, because they alledge that these break the Corn's body, when the
Iron ones only cut it in two, which occasions the Malt so broke by the Stones, to give the
water a more easy, free and regular Power to extract its Virtue, than the Cut-malt can that
is more confin'd within its Hull. Notwithstanding the Iron ones are now mostly in Use for their
great Dispatch and long Duration. In the Country it is frequently done by some to throw a Sack
of Malt on a Stone or Brick-floor as soon as it is ground, and there let it lye, giving it
one turn, for a Day or two, that the Stones or Bricks may draw out the fiery Quality it received
from the Kiln, and give the Drink a soft mild Taste.

CHAP. VII.

Of Brewing in general.

Brewing, like several other Arts is prostituted to the opinionated Ignorance of many conceited
Pretenders, who if they have but seen or been concern'd in but one Brewing, and that only one
Bushel of Malt, assume the Name of a Brewer and dare venture on several afterwards, as believing
it no other Task, than more Labour, to Brew a great deal as well as a little; from hence it
partly is, that we meet with such hodge-podge Ales and Beers, as are not only disagreeable
in Taste and Foulness, but indeed unwholsome to the Body of Man, for as it is often drank thick
and voided thin, the Feces or gross part must in my Opinion remain behind in some degree. Now
what the Effects of that may be, I must own I am not Physician enough to explain, but shrewdly
suspect it may be the Cause of Stones, Colicks, Obstructions, and several other Chronical Distempers;
for if we consider that the sediments of Malt-liquors are the refuse of a corrupted Grain,
loaded with the igneous acid Particles of the Malt, and then again with the corrosive sharp
Particles of the Yeast, it must consequently be very pernicious to the British human Body especially,
which certainly suffers much from the animal Salts of the great Quantities of Flesh that we
Eat more than People of any other Nation whatsoever; and therefore are more then ordinarily
obligated not to add the scorbutick mucilaginous Qualities of such gross unwholsome Particles,
that every one makes a lodgment of in their Bodies, as the Liquors they drink are more or less
thick; for in plain Truth, no Malt-liquor can be good without it's fine. The late Curious Simon
Harcourt Esq; of Penly, whom I have had the honour to drink some of his famous October with,
thought the true Art of Brewing of such Importance, that it is said to Cost him near twenty
Pounds to have an old Days-man taught it by a Welch Brewer, and sure it was this very Man exceeded
all others in these Parts afterwards in the Brewing of that which he called his October Beer.
So likewise in London they lay such stress on this Art, that many have thought it worth their
while to give one or two hundred Guineas with an Apprentice: This Consideration also made an
Ambassador give an extraordinary Encouragement to one of my Acquaintance to go over with him,
that was a great Master of this Science. But notwithstanding all that can be said that relates
to this Subject, there are so many Incidents attending Malt-liquors, that it has puzled several
expert Men to account for their difference, though brewed by the same Brewer, with the same
Malt, Hops and Water, and in the same Month and Town, and tapp'd at the same time: The Beer
of one being fine, strong and well Tasted, while the others have not had any worth drinking,
now this may be owing to the different Weather in the same Month, that might cause an Alteration
in the working of the Liquors, or that the Cellar may not be so convenient, or that the Water
was more disturbed by Winds or Rains, &c. But it has been observed that where a Gentleman has
imployed one Brewer constantly, and uses the same sort of Ingredients, and the Beer kept in
dry Vaults or Cellars that have two or three Doors; the Drink has been generally good. And
where such Malt-liquors are kept in Butts, more time is required to ripen, meliorate and fine
them, than those kept in Hogsheads, because the greater quantity must have the longer time;
so also a greater quantity will preserve itself better than a lesser one, and on this account
the Butt and Hogshead are the two best sized Casks of all others; but all under a Hogshead
hold rather too small a quantity to keep their Bodies. The Butt is certainly a most noble Cask
for this use, as being generally set upright, whereby it maintains a large Cover of Yeast,
that greatly contributes to the keeping in the Spirits of the Beer, admits of a most convenient
broaching in the middle and its lower part, and by its broad level Bottom, gives a better lodgment
to the fining and preserving Ingredients, than any other Cask whatsoever that lyes in, the
long Cross-form. Hence it partly is, that the common Butt-beer is at this time in greater Reputation
than ever in London, and the Home-brew'd Drinks out of Credit; because the first is better
cured in its Brewing, in its Quantity, in its Cask, and in its Age; when the latter has been
loaded with the pernicious Particles of great Quantities of Yeast, of a short Age, and kept
in small Casks, that confines its Owner, only to Winter Brewing and Sale, as not being capable
of sustaining the Heat of the Weather, for that the acidity of the Yeast brings on a sudden
hardness and staleness of the Ale, which to preserve in its mild Aley Taste, will not admit
of any great Quantity of Hops; and this is partly the reason that the handful of Salt which
the Plymouth Brewers put into their Hogshead, hinders their Ale from keeping, as I shall hereafter
take notice of.

CHAP. VIII.

The London Method of Brewing.

In a great Brewhouse that I was concern'd in, they wetted or used a considerable Quantity of
Malt in one Week in Brewing Stout-beer, common Butt-beer, Ale and small Beer, for which purpose
they have River and Well Waters, which they take in several degrees of Heat, as the Malt, Goods
and Grain are in a condition to receive them, and according to the Practice there I shall relate
the following Particulars, viz.

For Stout Butt Beer.

This is the strongest Butt-Beer that is Brewed from brown Malt, and often sold for forty Shillings
the Barrel, or six Pound the Butt out of the wholesale Cellars: The Liquor (for it is Sixpence
forfeit in the London Brewhouse if the word Water is named) in the Copper designed for the
first Mash, has a two Bushel Basket, or more, of the most hully Malt throw'd over it, to cover
its Top and forward its Boiling; this must be made very hot, almost ready to boil, yet not
so as to blister, for then it will be in too high a Heat; but as an indication of this, the
foul part of the Liquor will ascend, and the Malt swell up, and then it must be parted, look'd
into and felt with the Finger or back of the Hand, and if the Liquor is clear and can but be
just endured, it is then enough, and the Stoker must damp his fire as soon as possible by throwing
in a good Parcel of fresh Coals, and shutting his Iron vent Doors, if there are any; immediately
on this they let as much cold Liquor or Water run into the Copper as will make it all of a
Heat, somewhat more than Blood-warm, this they Pump over, or let it pass by a Cock into an
upright wooden square Spout or Trunk, and it directly rises thro' the Holes of a false Bottom
into the Malt, which is work'd by several Men with Oars for about half an Hour, and is called
the first and stiff Mash: While this is doing, there is more Liquor heating in the Copper that
must not be let into the mash Tun till it is very sharp, almost ready to boil, with this they
Mash again, then cover it with several Baskets of Malt, and let it stand an Hour before it
runs into the Under-back, which when boiled an Hour and a half with a good quantity of Hops
makes this Stout. The next is Mash'd with a cooler Liquor, then a sharper, and the next Blood-warm
or quite Cold; by which alternate degrees of Heat, a Quantity of small Beer is made after the
Stout.

For Brewing strong brown Ale called Stitch.

This is most of it the first running of the Malt, but yet of a longer Length than is drawn
for the Stout; It has but few Hops boiled in it, and is sold for Eight-pence per Gallon at
the Brewhouse out of the Tun, and is generally made to amend the common brown Ale with, on
particular Occasions. This Ale I remember was made use of by [Blank space] Medlicot Esq; in
the beginning of a Consumption, and I heard him say, it did him very great Service, for he
lived many Years afterwards.

For Brewing common brown Ale and Starting Beer.

They take the Liquors from the brown Ale as for the Stout, but draw a greater Quantity from
the Malt, than for Stout or Stitch, and after the fifth and second Mash they Cap the Goods
with fresh Malt to keep in the Spirit and Boil it an Hour; after this, small Beer is made of
the same Goods. Thus also the common brown Starting Butt-Beer is Brewed, only boiled with more
Hops an Hour and a half, and work'd cooler and longer than the brown Ale, and a shorter Length
drawn from the Malt. But it is often practised after the brown Ale, and where a Quantity of
small Beer is wanted, or that it is to be Brewed better than ordinary, to put so much fresh
Malt on the Goods as will answer that purpose.

For Brewing Pale and Amber Ales and Beers.

As the brown Malts are Brewed with River, these are Brewed with Well or Spring Liquors. The
Liquors are by some taken sharper for pale than brown Malts, and after the first scalding Liquor
is put over, some lower the rest by degrees to the last which is quite Cold, for their small
Beer; so also for Butt-Beers there is no other difference than the addition of more Hops, and
boiling, and the method of working. But the reasons for Brewing pale Malts with Spring or hard
Well waters, I have mentioned in my second Book of Brewing.

For Brewing Entire Guile Small Beer.

On the first Liquor they throw some hully Malt to shew the break of it, and when it is very
sharp, they let in some cold Liquor, and run it into the Tun milk warm; this is mash'd with
thirty or forty pulls of the Oar, and let stand till the second Liquor is ready, which must
be almost scalding hot to the back of the Hand, then run it by the Cock into the Tun, mash
it up and let it stand an Hour before it is spended off into the Under-back: These two pieces
of Liquor will make one Copper of the first wort, without putting any fresh Malt on the Goods;
the next Liquor to be Blood-warm, the next sharp, and the next cool or cold; for the general
way in great Brewhouses is to let a cool Liquor precede a sharp one, because it gradually opens
the Pores of the Malt and Goods, and prepares the way for the hotter Liquor that is to follow.

The several Lengths or Quantities of Drinks that have been made from Malt, and their several
Prices, as they have been sold at a common Brewhouse.

For Stout-Beer, is commonly drawn one Barrel off a quarter of Malt, and sold for thirty Shillings
per Barrel from the Tun. For Stitch or strong brown Ale, one Barrel and a Firkin, at one and
twenty Shillings and Fourpence per Barrel from the Tun. For common brown Ale, one Barrel and
a half or more, at sixteen Shillings per Barrel, that holds thirty two Gallons, from the Tun.
For Intire small Beer, five or six Barrels off a Quarter, at seven or eight Shillings per Barrel
from the Tun. For Pale and Amber Ale, one Barrel and a Firkin, at one Shilling per Gallon from
the Tun.

CHAP. IX.

The Country or private way of Brewing.

Several Countries have their several Methods of Brewing, as is practised in Wales, Dorchester,
Nottingham, Dundle, and many other Places; but evading Particulars, I shall here recommend
that which I think is most serviceable both in Country and London private Families. And first,
I shall observe that the great Brewer has some advantages in Brewing more than the small one,
and yet the latter has some Conveniences which the former can't enjoy; for 'tis certain that
the great Brewer can make more Drink, and draw a greater Length in proportion to his Malt,
than a Person can from a lesser Quantity, because the greater the Body, the more is its united
Power in receiving and discharging, and he can Brew with less charge and trouble by means of
his more convenient Utensils. But then the private Brewer is not without his Benefits; for
he can have his Malt ground at pleasure, his Tubs and moveable Coolers sweeter and better clean'd
than the great fixed Tuns and Backs, he can skim off his top Yeast and leave his bottom Lees
behind, which is what the great Brewer can't so well do; he can at discretion make additions
of cold wort to his too forward Ales and Beers, which the great Brewer can't so conveniently
do; he can Brew how and when he pleases, which the great ones are in some measure hindred from.
But to come nearer the matter, I will suppose a private Family to Brew five Bushels of Malt,
whose Copper holds brim-full thirty six Gallons or a Barrel: On this water we put half a Peck
of Bran or Malt when it is something hot, which will much forward it by keep in the Steams
or Spirit of the water, and when it begins to Boil, if the water is foul, skim off the Bran
or Malt and give it the Hogs, or else lade both water and that into the mash Vat, where it
is to remain till the steam is near spent, and you can see your Face in it, which will be in
about a quarter of an Hour in cold weather; then let all but half a Bushel of the Malt run
very leisurely into it, stirring it all the while with an Oar or Paddle, that it may not Ball,
and when the Malt is all but just mix'd with water it is enough, which I am sensible is different
from the old way and the general present Practice; but I shall here clear that Point. For by
not stirring or mashing the Malt into a Pudding Consistence or thin Mash, the Body of it lies
in a more loose Condition, that will easier and sooner admit of a quicker and more true Passage
of the after- ladings of the several Bowls or Jets of hot water, which must run thorough it
before the Brewing is ended; by which free percolation the water has ready access to all the
parts of the broken Malt, so that the Brewer is capacitated to Brew quicker or slower, and
to make more Ale or small Beer; If more Ale, then hot Boiling water must be laded over to slow
that one Bowl must run almost off before another is put over, which will occasion the whole
Brewing to last about sixteen Hours, especially if the Dundle way is followed, of spending
it out of the Tap as small as a Straw, and as fine as Sack, and then it will be quickly so
in the Barrel: Of if less or weaker Ale is to be made and good small Beer, then the second
Copper of boiling water may be put over expeditiously and drawn out with a large and fast steam.
After the first stirring of the Malt is done, then put over the reserve of half a Bushel of
fresh Malt to the four Bushels and half that is already in the Tub, which must be spread all
over it, and also cover the top of the Tub with some Sacks or other Cloths to keep in the Steam
or Spirit of the Malt; then let it stand two or three Hours, at the end of which, put over
now and then a Bowl of the boiling water in the Copper as is before directed, and so continue
to do till as much is run off as will almost fill the Copper; then in a Canvas or other loose
woven Cloth, put in half a Pound of Hops and boil them half an Hour, when they must be taken
out, and as many fresh ones put in their room as is judged proper to boil half an Hour more,
if for Ale: But if for keeping Beer, half a Pound of fresh ones should be put in at every half
Hour's end, and Boil an Hour and a half briskly: Now while the first Copper of wort is Boiling,
there should be scalding water leisurely put over the Goods, Bowl by Bowl, and run off, that
the Copper may be filled again immediately after the first is out, and boiled an Hour with
near the same quantity of fresh Hops, and in the same manner as those in the first Copper of
Ale- wort were. The rest for small Beer may be all cold water put over the Grains at once,
or at twice, and Boil'd an Hour each Copper with the Hops that has been boil'd before. But
here I must observe, that sometimes I have not an opportunity to get hot water for making all
my second Copper of wort, which obliges me then to make use of cold to supply what was wanting.
Out of five Bushels of Malt, I generally make a Hogshead of Ale with the two first Coppers
of wort, and a Hogshead of small Beer with the other two, but this more or less according to
please me, always taking Care to let each Copper of wort be strained off thro' a Sieve, and
cool in four or five Tubs to prevent its foxing. Thus I have brewed many Hogsheads of midling
Ale that when the Malt is good, has proved strong enough for myself and satisfactory to my
friends: But for strong keeping Beer, the first Copper of wort may be wholly put to that use,
and all the rest small Beer: Or when the first Copper of wort is intirely made use of for strong
Beer, the Goods may be help'd with more fresh Malt (according to the London Fashion) and water
lukewarm put over at first with the Bowl, but soon after sharp or boiling water, which may
make a Copper of good Ale, and small Beer after that. In some Parts of the North, they take
one or more Cinders red hot and throw some Salt on them to overcome the Sulphur of the Coal,
and then directly thrust it into the fresh Malt or Goods, where it lies till all the water
is laded over and the Brewing done, for there is only one or two mashings or stirrings at most
necessary in a Brewing: Others that Brew with Wood will quench one or more Brands ends of Ash
in a Copper of wort, to mellow the Drink as a burnt Toast of Bread does a Pot of Beer; but
it is to be observed, that this must not be done with Oak, Firr, or any other strong-scented
Wood; lest it does more harm than good.

Another Way.

When small Beer is not wanted, and another Brewing is soon to succeed the former, then may
the last small Beer wort, that has had no Hops boiled in it, remain in the Copper all Night,
which will prevent its foxing, and be ready to boil instead of so much water to put over the
next fresh Malt: This will greatly contribute to the strengthening, bettering and colouring
of the next wort, and is commonly used in this manner when Stout or October Beer is to be made,
not that it is less serviceable if it was for Ale, or Intire Guile small Beer; but lest it
should taste of the Copper by remaining all Night in it, it may be dispersed into Tubs and
kept a Week or more together if some fresh cold water is daily added to it, and may be brewed
as I have mentioned, taking particular Care in this as well as in the former ways to return
two, three, or more Hand-bowls of wort into the Mash Tub, that first of all runs off, till
it comes absolutely fine and clear, and then it may spend away or run off for good: Others
will reserve this small Beer wort unboiled in Tubs, and keep it there a Week in Winter, or
two or three Days in Summer, according to Conveniency, by putting fresh water every Day to
it, and use it instead of water for the first Mash, alledging it is better so than boiled,
because by that it is thickened and will cause the wort to run foul; this may be a Benefit
to a Victualler that Brews to Sell again, and can't Vent his small Beer; because for such small
raw wort that is mix'd with any water, there is no Excise to be pay'd.

For Brewing Intire Guile Small Beer.

There can be no way better for making good small Beer, than by Brewing it from fresh Malt,
because in Malt as well as in Hops, and so in all other Vegetables, there is a Spirituous and
Earthy part, as I shall further enlarge on in writing of the Hop; therefore all Drink brewed
from Goods or Grains after the first or second worts are run off, is not so good and wholsome,
as that intirely brewed from fresh Malt, nor could any thing but Necessity cause me to make
use of such Liquor; yet how many thousands are there in this Nation that know nothing of the
matter, tho' it is of no small Importance, and ought to be regarded by all those that value
their Health and Taste. And here I advertise every one who reads or hears this, and is capable
of being his own Friend, so far to mind this Item and prefer that small Beer which is made
entirely from fresh Malt, before any other that is brewed after strong Beer or Ale. Now to
brew such Guile small Beer after the boiling water has stood in the Tub till it is clear, put
in the Malt leisurely, and mash it that it does not Ball or Clot, then throw over some fresh
Malt on the Top, and Cloths over that, and let it stand two Hours before it is drawn off, the
next water may be between hot and cold, the next boiling hot, and the next Cold; or if conveniency
allows not, there may be once scalding water, and all the rest cold instead of the last three.
Thus I brew my Intire Guile small Beer, by putting the first and last worts together, allowing
half, or a Pound of Hops to a Hogshead and boiling it one Hour, but if the Hops were shifted
twice in that time, the Drink would plainly discover the benefit. Sometimes, when I have been
in haste for small Beer, I have put half a Bushel of Malt and a few Hops into my Barrel-Copper,
and boil'd a Kettle gallop as some call it an Hour, and made me a present Drink, till I had
more leisure to brew better.

A particular way of Brewing strong October Beer.

There was a Man in this Country that brewed for a Gentleman constantly after a Very precise
Method, and that was, as soon as he had put over all his first Copper of water and mash'd it
some time, he would directly let the Cock run a small stream and presently put some fresh Malt
on the former, and mash on the while the Cock was spending, which he would put again over the
Malt, as often as his Pail or Hand-bowl was full, and this for an Hour or two together; then
he would let it run off intirely, and put it over at once, to run off again as small as a Straw.
This was for his October Beer: Then he would put scalding water over the Goods at once, but
not mash, and Cap them with more fresh Malt that stood an Hour undisturbed before he would
draw it off for Ale; the rest was hot water put over the Goods and mash'd at twice for small
Beer: And it was observed that his October Beer was the most famous in the Country, but his
Grains good for little, for that he had by this method wash'd out all or most of their goodness;
this Man was a long while in Brewing, and once his Beer did not work in the Barrel for a Month
in a very hard Frost, yet when the weather broke it recovered and fermented well, and afterwards
proved very good Drink, but he seldom work'd, his Beer less than a Week in the Vat, and was
never tapp'd under three Years.

This way indeed is attended with extraordinary Labour and Time, by the Brewers running off
the wort almost continually, and often returning the same again into the mash Vat, but then
it certainly gives him an opportunity of extracting and washing out the goodness of the Malt,
more than any of the common Methods, by which he is capacitated to make his October or March
Beer as strong as he pleases. The Fame of Penly October Beer is at this time well known not
only throughout Hertfordshire, but several other remote Places, and truly not without desert,
for in all my Travels I never met with any that excell'd it, for a clear amber Colour, a fine
relish, and a light warm digestion. But what excell'd all was the generosity of its Donor,
who for Hospitality in his Viands and this October Beer, has left but few of his Fellows. I
remember his usual Expression to be, You are welcome to a good Batch of my October, and true
it was, that he proved his Words by his Deeds, for not only the rich but even the poor Man's
Heart was generally made glad, even in advance, whenever they had Business at Penly, as expecting
a refreshment of this Cordial Malt Liquor, that often was accompany'd with a good Breakfast
or Dinner besides, while several others that had greater Estates would seem generous by giving
a Yeoman Man Neighbour, the Mathematical Treat of a look on the Spit, and a standing Drink
at the Tap.

Of Brewing Molosses Beer.

Molosses or Treacle has certainly been formerly made too much use of in the brewing of Stout
Beer, common Butt Beers, brown Ales and small Beer when Malts have been dear: But it is now
prohibited under the Penalty of fifty Pounds for every ten Pounds weight found in any common
Brewhouse, and as Malts are now about twenty Shillings per Quarter, and like to be so by the
Blessing of God, and the Assistance of that invaluable excellent Liquor for steeping Seed Barley
in, published in a late Book intituled, Chiltern and Vale Farming Explained: There is no great
danger of that, Imposition being rife again, which in my Opinion was very unwholsome, because
the Brewer was obliged to put such a large quantity of Treacle into his water or small wort
to make it strong Beer or Ale, as very probably raised a sweating in some degree in the Body
of the drinker: Tho' in small Beer a lesser quantity will serve; and therefore I have known
some to brew it in that for their Health's sake, because this does not breed the Scurvy like
Malt-liquors, and at the same time will keep open the Pipes and Passages of the Lungs and Stomach,
for which purpose they put in nine Pounds weight into a Barrel-Copper of cold water, first
mixing it well, and boiling it briskly with a quarter of a Pound of Hops or more one Hour,
so that it may come off twenty seven Gallons.

A Method practiced by a Victualler for Brewing of Ale or October  Beer from Nottingham.

His Copper holds twenty four Gallons, and the Mash Tub has room enough for four and more Bushels
of Malt. The first full Copper of boiling water he puts into the Mash Tub, there to lye a quarter
of an Hour, till the steam is so far spent, that he can see his Face in it, or as soon as the
hot water is put in, throws a Pail or two of cold water into it, which will bring it at once
into a temper; then he lets three Bushels of Malt be run leisurely into it, and stirred or
mash'd all the while, but as little as can be, or no more than just to keep the Malt from clotting
or balling; when that is done, he puts one Bushel of dry Malt on the Top to keep in the Vapour
or Spirit, and so lets it stand covered two Hours, or till the next Copper full of water is
boiled hot, which he lades over the Malt or Goods three Hand-bowls full at a time, that are
to run off at the Cock or Tap by a very small stream before more is put on, which again must
be returned into the Mash Tub till it comes off exceeding fine, for unless the wort is clear
when it goes into the Copper, there are little hopes it will be so in the Barrel, which leisure
way obliges him to be sixteen Hours in brewing these four Bushels of Malt. Now between the
ladings over he puts cold water into the Copper to be boiling hot, while the other is running
off; by this means his Copper is kept up near full, and the Cock spending to the end of brewing
his Ale or small Beer, of which only twenty one Gallons must be saved of the first wort that
is reserved in a Tub, wherein four Ounces of Hops are put and then it is to be set by. For
the second wort I will suppose there are twenty Gallons of water in the Copper boiling hot,
that must be all laded over in the same manner as the former was, but no cold water need here
be mixed; when half of this is run out into a Tub, it must be directly put into the Copper
with half of the first wort, strain'd thro' the Brewing Sieve as it lies on a small loose wooden
Frame over the Copper, to keep back those Hops that were first put in to preserve it, which
is to make the first Copper twenty one Gallons; then upon its beginning to boil he puts in
a Pound of Hops in one or two Canvas or other coarse Linnen Bags, somewhat larger than will
just contain the Hops, that an allowance may be given for their swell; this he boils away very
briskly for half an Hour, when he takes the Hops out and continues boiling the wort by itself
till it breaks into Particles a little ragged, and then it is enough and must be dispers'd
into the cooling Tubs very thin: Then put the remainder of the first and second wort together
and boil that, the same time, in the same manner, and with the same quantity of fresh Hops
the first was. The rest of the third or small Beer wort will be about fifteen or twenty Gallons
more or less, he mixes directly with some cold water to keep it free of Excise, and puts it
into the Copper as the first Liquor to begin a second Brewing of Ale with another four Bushels
of Malt as he did before, and so on for several Days together if necessary; but at last there
may be some small Beer made, tho' some will make make none, because the Goods or Grains will
go the further in feeding of Hogs.

Observations on the foregoing Method.

The first Copper of twenty four Gallons of water is but sufficient to wet three Bushels of
Malt, and by the additions of cold water as the hot is expended, it matters not how much the
Malt drinks up: Tho' a third part of water is generally allowed for that purpose that is never
returned.

By the leisure putting over the Bowls of water, the goodness of the Malt is the more extracted
and washed out, so that more Ale may be this way made and less small Beer, than if the wort
was drawed out hastily; besides the wort has a greater opportunity of coming off finer by a
slow stream than by a quicker one, which makes this Method excel all others that discharge
the wort out of the Mash Tub more hastily. Also by the continual running of the Cock or Tap,
the Goods or Grains are out of danger of sowring, which often happens in Summer Brewings, especially
when the Cook is stopt between the several boilings of the wort, and what has been the very
Cause of damaging or spoiling many Guiles of Drink.

This Brewer reposes such a Confidence in the Hops to preserve the wort from fixing even in
the very hottest time in Summer, that he puts all his first running into one Tub, till he has
an opportunity of boiling it, and when Tubs and Room are so scarce that the wort is obliged
to be laid thick to cool, then the security of some fresh Hops (and not them already boiled
or soak'd) may be put into it, which may be got out again by letting the Drink run thro' the
Cullender, and after that a Hair Sieve to keep the Seeds of the Hop back as the Drink goes
into the Barrel: But this way of putting Hops into the cooling Tubs is only meant where there
is a perfect Necessity, and Tubs and Room enough can't be had to lay the wort thin.

By this Method of Brewing, Ale may be made as strong or as small as is thought fit, and so
may the small Beer that comes after, and is so agreeable that this Brewer makes his Ale and
strong keeping October Beer, all one and the same way, only with this Difference, that the
latter is stronger and more hopp'd than the former. Where little or no small Beer is wanted,
there may little or none be Brewed, according to this manner of Working, which is no small
Conveniency to a little Family that uses more strong than small, nor is there any Loss by leaving
the Grainy in some Heart, where Horse, Cows, Hogs, or Rabbits are kept.

I am very sensible that the Vulgar Error for many Years, has been a standard Sign to the ignorant
of boiling strong Worts only till they break or curdle in the Copper, which sometimes will
be in three quarters of an Hour, or in an Hour or more, according to the nature of the Malt
and Water; but from these in some measure I dissent, and also from those that boil it two or
three Hours, for it is certain the longer worts boil, the thicker they are made, because the
watry or thin parts evaporate first away, and the thicker any Drink is boiled, the longer it
requires to lye in the Barrel to have its Particles broke, which Age must be then the sole
cause of, and therefore I have fixed the time and sign to know when the wort is truly enough,
and that in such, a manner that an ordinary Capacity may be a true judge of, which hereafter
will prevent prodigious Losses in the waste of strong worts that have often been boiled away
to greater Loss than Profit.

I have here also made known, I think, the true Method of managing the Hop in the Copper, which
has long wanted adjusting, to prevent the great damage that longer boilings of them has been
the sole occasion of to the spoiling of most of our malt Drinks brewed in this Nation.

CHAP. X.

The Nature and Use of the Hop.

This Vegetable has suffered its degradation, and raised its Reputation on the most of any other.
It formerly being thought an unwholsome Ingredient, and till of late a great breeder of the
Stone in the Bladder, but now that falacious Notion is obviated by Dr.Quincy and others, who
have proved that Malt Drink much tinctured by the Hop, is less prone to do that mischief, than
Ale that has fewer boiled in it. Indeed when the Hop in a dear time is adulterated with water,
in which Aloes, etc. have been infused, as was practised it is said about eight Years ago to
make the old ones recover their bitterness and seem new, then they are to be looked on as unwholsome;
but the pure new Hop is surely of a healthful Nature, composed of a spirituous flowery part,
and a phlegmatick terrene part, and with the best of the Hops I can either make or mar the
Brewing, for if the Hops are boiled in strong or small worts beyond their fine and pure Nature,
the Liquor suffers, and will be tang'd with a noxious taste both ungrateful and unwholsome
to the Stomach, and if boiled to a very great Excess, they will be apt to cause Reachings and
disturb a weak Constitution. It is for these Reasons that I advise the boiling two Parcels
of fresh Hops in each Copper of Ale-wort, and if there were three for keeping Beer, it would
be so much the better for the taste, health of Body and longer Preservation of the Beer in
a sound smooth Condition. And according to this, one of my Neighbours made a Bag like a Pillow-bear
of the ordinary sixpenny yard Cloth, and boil'd his Hops in it half an Hour, then he took them
out, and put in another Bag of the like quantity of fresh Hops and boiled them half an Hour
more, by which means he had an opportunity of boiling both Wort and Hops their due time, sav'd
himself the trouble of draining them thro' a Sieve, and secured the Seeds of the Hops at the
same time from mixing with the Drink, afterwards he boiled the same Bags in his small Beer
till he got the goodness of it out, but observe that the Bags were made bigger than what would
just contain the Hops, otherwise it will be difficult to boil out their goodness. It's true,
that here is a Charge encreased by the Consumption of a greater quantity of Hops than usual,
but then how greatly will they answer the desired end of enjoying fine palated wholsome Drink,
that in a cheap time will not amount to much if bought at the best Hand; and if we consider
their after-use and benefit in small Beer, there is not any loss at all in their Quantity:
But where it can be afforded, the very small Beer would be much improved if fresh Hops were
also shifted in the boiling of this as well as the stronger worts, and then it would be neighbourly
Charity to give them away to the poorer Person. Hence may appear the Hardship that many are
under of being necessitated to drink of those Brewers Malt Liquors, who out of avarice boil
their Hops to the last, that they may not lose any of their quintessence: Nay, I have known
some of the little Victualling Brewers so stupendiously ignorant, that they have thought they
acted the good Husband, when they have squeezed the Hops after they have been boiled to the
last in small Beer, to get out all their goodness as they vainly imagin'd, which is so reverse
to good management, that in my Opinion they had much better put some sort of Earth into the
Drink, and it would prove more pleasant and wholsome. And why the small Beer should be in this
manner (as I may justly call it) spoiled for want of the trifling Charge of a few fresh Hops,
I am a little surprized at, since is the most general Liquor of Families and therefore as great
Care is due to as any in its Brewing, to enjoy it in pure and wholsome Order.

After the Wort is cooled and put into the working Vat or Tub, some have thrown fresh Hops into
it, and worked them with the Yeast, at the same time reserving a few Gallons of raw Wort to
wash the Yeast thro' a Sieve to keep back the Hop. This is a good way when Hops enough have
not been sufficiently boiled in the Wort, or to preserve it in the Coolers where it is laid
thick, otherwise I think it needless.

When Hops have been dear, many have used the Seeds of Wormwood, the they buy in the London
Seed Shops instead of them: Others Daucus or wild Carrot Seed, that grows in our common Fields,
which many of the poor People in this Country gather and dry in their Houses against their
wanting of them: Others that wholsome Herb Horehound, which indeed is a fine Bitter and grows
on several of our Commons.

But before I conclude this Article, I shall take notice of a Country Bite, as I have already
done of a London one, and that is, of an Arch Fellow that went about to Brew for People, and
took his opportunity to save all the used Hops that were to be thrown away, these he washed
clean, then would dry them in the Sun, or by the Fire, and sprinkle the juice of Horehound
on them, which would give them such a greenish colour and bitterish taste, that with the help
of the Screw-press he would sell them for new Hops.

Hops in themselves are known to be a subtil grateful Bitter, whose Particles are Active and
Rigid, by which the viscid ramous parts of the Malt are much divided, that makes the Drink
easy of Digestion in the Body; they also keep it from running into such Cohesions as would
make it ropy, valid and sour, and therefore are not only of great use in boiled, but in raw
worts to preserve them sound till they can be put into the Copper, and afterwards in the Tun
while the Drink is working, as I have before hinted.

Here then I must observe, that the worser earthy part of the Hop is greatly the cause of that
rough, harsh unpleasant taste, which accompany both Ales and Beers that have the Hops so long
boiled in them as to tincture their worts with their, mischievous Effects; for notwithstanding
the Malt, be ever so good, the Hops, if boiled too long in them, will be so predominant as
to cause a nasty bad taste, and therefore I am in hopes our Malt Liquors in general will be
in great Perfection, when Hops are made use of according to my Directions, and also that more
Grounds will be planted with this most serviceable Vegetable than ever, that their Dearness
may not be a disencouragement to this excellent Practice.

For I know an Alehouse-keeper and Brewer, who, to save the expence of Hops that were then two
Shillings per Pound, use but a quartern instead of a Pound, the rest he supplied with Daucus
Seeds; but to be more particular, in a Mug of this Person's Ale I discovered three several
Impositions. First, He underboil'd his Wort to save its Consumption: Secondly, He boiled this
Seed instead of the Hop; and Thirdly, He beat the Yeast in for some time to encrease the strength
of the Drink; and all these in such a Legerdemain manner as gull'd and infatuated the ignorant
Drinker to such a degree as not to suspect the Fraud, and that for these three Reasons: First,
The underboil'd wort being of a more sweet taste than ordinary, was esteemed the Produce of
a great allowance of Malt. Secondly, The Daucus Seed encreased their approbation by the fine
Peach flavour or relish that it gives the Drink; and Thirdly, The Yeast was not so much as
thought of, since they enjoyed a strong heady Liquor. These artificial Qualities, and I think
I may say unnatural, has been so prevalent with the Vulgar, who were his chief Customers, that
I have known this Victualler have more Trade for such Drink than his Neighours, who had much
more wholsome at the same time; for the Daucus Seed tho' it is a Carminative, and has some
other good Properties, yet in the unboil'd Wort it is not capable of doing the Office of the
Hop, in breaking thro' the clammy parts of it; the Hop being full of subtil penetrating Qualities,
a Strengthener of the Stomach, and makes the Drink agreeble, by opposing Obstructions of the
Viscera, and particularly of the Liver and Kidneys, as the Learned maintain, which confutes
the old Notion, that Hops are a Breeder of the Stone in the Bladder.

CHAP. XI.

Of Boiling Malt Liquors.

Altho' I have said an Hour and a half is requisite for boiling October Beer, and an Hour for
Ales and small Beer; yet it is to be observed, that an exact time is not altogether a certain
Rule in this Case with some Brewers; for when loose Hops are boiled in the wort so long till
they all sink, their Seeds will arise and fall down again; the wort also will be curdled, and
broke into small Particles if examin'd in a Hand-bowl, but afterwards into larger, as big as
great Pins heads, and will appear clean and fine at the Top. This is so much a Rule with some,
that they regard not Time but this Sign to shew when the Wort is boiled enough; and this will
happen sooner or later according to the Nature of the Barley and its being well Malted; for
if it comes off Chalks or Gravels, it generally has the good Property of breaking or curdling
soon; but if of tough Clays, then it is longer, which by some Persons is not a little valued,
because it saves time in boiling, and consequently the Consumption of the Wort.

It is also to be observed, that pale Malt Worts will not break so soon in the Copper, as the
brown Sorts, but when either of their Worts boil, it should be to the purpose, for then they
will break sooner and waste less than if they are kept Simmering, and will likewise work more
kindly in the Tun, drink smoother, and keep longer.

Now all Malt Worts may be spoiled by too little or too much boiling; if too little, then the
Drink will always taste raw, mawkish, and be unwholsome in the Stomach, where, instead of helping
to dilute and digest our Food, it will cause Obstructions, Colicks, Head-achs, and other misfortunes;
besides, all such underboil'd Drinks are certainly exposed to staleness and sowerness, much
sooner than those that have had their full time in the Copper. And if they are boiled too long,
they will then thicken (for one may boil a Wort to a Salve) and not come out of the Copper
fine and in a right Condition, which will cause it never to be right clear in the Barrel; an
Item sufficient to shew the mistake of all those that think to excel in Malt Liquors, by boiling
them two or three Hours, to the great Confusion of the Wort, and doing more harm than good
to the Drink.

But to be more particular in those two Extreams, it is my Opinion, as I have said before, that
no Ale Worts boiled less than an Hour can be good, because in an Hour's time they cannot acquire
a thickness of Body any ways detrimental to them, and in less than an Hour the ramous viscid
parts of the Ale cannot be sufficiently broke and divided, so as to prevent it running into
Cohesions, Ropyness and Sowerness, because in Ales there are not Hops enough allowed to do
this, which good boiling must in a great measure supply, or else such Drink I am sure can never
be agreeable to the Body of Man; for then its cohesive Parts being not thoroughly broke and
comminuted by time and boiling, remains in a hard texture of Parts, which consequently obliges
the Stomach to work more than ordinary to digest and secrete such parboiled Liquor, that time
and fire should have cured before: Is not this apparent in half boil'd Meats, or under-bak'd
Bread, that often causes the Stomach a great fatigue to digest, especially in those of a sedentary
Life; and if that suffers, 'tis certain the whole Body must share in it: How ignorant then
are those People, who, in tipling of such Liquor, can praise it for excellent good Ale, as
I have been an eye-witness of, and only because its taste is sweetish, (which is the nature
of such raw Drinks) as believing it to be the pure Effects of the genuine Malt, not perceiving
the Landlord's Avarice and Cunning to save the Consumption of his Wort by shortness of boiling,
tho' to the great Prejudice of the Drinker's Health; and because a Liquid does not afford such
a plain ocular Demonstration, as Meat and Bread does, these deluded People are taken into an
Approbation of indeed an Ignis fatuus, or what is not.

To come then to the Crisis of the Matter, both Time and the Curdling or Breaking of the Wort
should be consulted; for if a Person was to boil the Wort an Hour, and then take it out of
the Copper, before it was rightly broke, it would be wrong management, and the Drink would
not be fine nor wholsome; and if it should boil an Hour and a half, or two Hours, without regarding
when its Particles are in a right order, then it may be too thick, so that due Care must be
had to the two extreams to obtain it its due order; therefore in October and keeping Beers,
an Hour and a quarter's good boiling is commonly sufficient to have a thorough cured Drink,
for generally in that time it will break and boil enough, and because in this there is a double
Security by length of boiling, and a quantity of Hops shifted; but in the new way there is
only a single one, and that is by a double or treble allowance of fresh Hops boiled only half
an Hour in the Wort, and for this Practice a Reason is assigned, that the Hops being endowed
with discutient apertive Qualities, will by them and their great quantity supply the Defect
of underboiling the Wort; and that a further Conveniency is here enjoyed by having only the
fine wholsome strong flowery spirituous Parts of the Hop in the Drink, exclusive of the phlegmatick
nasty earthy Parts which would be extracted if the Hops were to be boiled above half an Hour;
and therefore there are many now, that are so attach'd to this new Method, that they won't
brew Ale or October Beer any other way, vouching it to be a true Tenet, that if Hops are boiled
above thirty Minutes, the wort will have some or more of their worser Quality. The allowance
of Hops for Ale or Beer, cannot be exactly adjusted without coming to Particulars, because
the Proportion should be according to the nature and quality of the Malt, the Season of the
Year it is brew'd in, and the length of time it is to be kept.

For strong brown Ale brew'd in any of the Winter Months, and boiled an Hour, one Pound is but
barely sufficient for a Hogshead, if it be Tapp'd in three Weeks or a Month.

If for pale Ale brewed at that time and for that Age, one Pound and a quarter of Hops; but
if these Ales are brewed in any of the Summer Months, there should be more Hops allowed.

For October or March brown Beer, a Hogshead made from Eleven Bushels of Malt, boiled an Hour
and a quarter to be kept Nine Months, three Pounds and a half ought to be boiled in such Drink
at the least.

For October or March, pale Beer made from fourteen Bushels, boiled an Hour and a quarter, and
kept Twelve Months, six Pound ought to be allowed to a Hogshead of such Drink, and more if
the Hops are shifted in two Bags, and less time given the Wort to boil.

Now those that are of Opinion, that their Beer and Ales are greatly improved by boiling the
Hops only half an Hour in the Wort, I joyn in Sentiment with them, as being very sure by repeated
Experience it is so; but I must here take leave to dissent from those that think that half
an Hour's boiling the Wort is full enough for making right sound and well relished Malt Drinks;
however of this I have amply and more particularly wrote in my Second Book of Brewing in Chapter
IV, where I have plainly publish'd the true Sign or Criterion to know when the Wort is boiled
just enough, and which I intend to publish in a little time.

CHAP. XII.

Of Foxing or Tainting Malt Liquors.

Foxing is a misfortune, or rather a Disease in Malt Drinks, occasioned by divers Means, as
the Nastiness of the Utensils, putting the Worts too thick together in the Backs or Cooler,
Brewing too often and soon one after another, and sometimes by bad Malts and Waters, and the
Liquors taken in wrong Heats, being of such pernicious Consequence to the great Brewer in particular,
that he sometimes cannot recover and bring his Matters into a right Order again under a Week
or two, and is so hateful to him in its very Name, that it is a general Law among them to make
all Servants that Name the word Fox or Foxing, in the Brewhouse to pay Sixpence, which obliges
them to call it Reynards; for when once the Drink is Tainted, it may be smelt at some Distance
somewhat like a Fox; It chiefly happens in hot weather, and causes the Beer and Ale so Tainted
to acquire a fulsome sickish taste, that will if it is receive'd in a great degree become Ropy
like Treacle, and in some short time turn Sour. This I have known so to surprize my small Beer
Customers, that they have asked the Drayman what was the matter: He to act in his Master's
Interest tells them a Lye, and says it is the goodness of the Malt that causes that sweetish
mawkish taste, and then would brag at Home how cleverly he came off. I have had it also in
the Country more than once, and that by the idleness and ignorance of my Servant, who when
a Tub has been rinced out only with fair Water, has set it by for a clean one but this won't
do with a careful Master for I oblige him to clean the Tub with a Hand-brush, Ashes, or Sand
every Brewing, and so that I cannot scrape any Dirt up under my Nail. However as the Cure of
this Disease has baffled the Efforts of many, I have been tempted to endeavour the finding
out a Remedy for the great Malignity, and shall deliver the best I know on this Score.

And here I shall mention the great Value of the Hop in preventing and curing the Fox in Malt
Liquors. When the Wort is run into the Tub out of the mashing Vat, it is a very good way to
throw some Hops directly into it before it is put into the Copper, and they will secure it
against Sourness and Ropyness, that are the two Effects of fox'd Worts or Drinks, and is of
such Power in this respect, that raw Worts may be kept some time, even, in hot weather, before
they are boiled, and which is necessary; where there is a large Quantity of Malt used to a
little Copper; but it is certain that the stronger Worts will keep longer with Hops than the
smaller Sorts: So likewise if a Person has fewer Tubs than is wanting, and he is apprehensive
his Worts will be Fox'd by too thick lying in the Coolers or working Tubs, then it will be
a safe way to put some fresh Hops into such Tubs and work them with the Yeast as I have before
hinted; or in case the Drink is already Foxed in the Fat or Tun, new Hops should be put in
and work'd with it, and they will greatly fetch it again into a right Order; but then such
Drink should be carefully taken clear off from its gross nasty Lee, which being mostly Tainted,
would otherwise lye in the Barrel, corrupt and make it worse.

Some will sift quick Lime into foxed Drinks while they are working in the Tun or Vat, that
its Fire and Salts may break the Cohesions of the Beer or Ale, and burn away the stench, that
the Corruption would always cause; but then such Drink should by a Peg at the bottom of the
Vat be drawn off as fine as possible, and the Dregs left behind.

There are many that do not conceive how their Drinks become Fox'd and Tainted for several Brewings
together; but I have in Chapter VI, in my Second Book, made it appear, that the Taint is chiefly
retain'd and lodged in the upright wooden Pins that fasten the Planks to the Joists, and how
scalding Lye is a very efficacious Liquor to extirpate it out of the Utensils in a little time
if rightly applied; and one other most powerful Ingredient that is now used by the greatest
Artists for curing of the same.

CHAP. XIII

Of fermenting and working of Beers and Ales, and the pernicious Practice of Beating in the
Yeast detected.

This Subject in my Opinion has, long wanted a Satyrical Pen to shew the ill Effects of this
unwholsome Method, which I suppose has been much discouraged and hindered hitherto, from the
general use it has been under many Years, especially by the Northern Brewers, who tho' much
famed for their Knowledge in this Art, and have induced many others by their Example in the
Southern and other Parts to pursue their Method; yet I shall endeavour to prove them culpable
of Male-practice, that beat in the Yeast, as some of them have done a Week together; and that
Custom ought not to Authorize an ill Practice. First, I shall observe that Yeast is a very
strong acid, that abounds with subtil spirituous Qualities, whose Particles being wrapped up
in those that are viscid, are by a mixture with them in the Wort, brought into an intestine
Motion, occasion'd by Particles of different Gravities; for as the spirituous Parts of the
Wort will be continually striving to get up to the Surface, the glutinous adhesive ones of
the Yeast will be as constant in retarding their assent, and so prevent their Escape; by which
the spirituous Particles are set loose and free from their viscid Confinements, as may appear
by the Froth on the Top, and to this end a moderate warmth hastens the Operation, as it assists
in opening the viscidities in which some spirituous Parts may be entangled, and unbends the
Spring of the included Air: The viscid Parts which are raised to the Top, not only on account
of their own lightness, but by the continual efforts and occursions of the Spirits to get uppermost,
shew when the ferment is at the highest, and prevent the finer Spirits making their escape;
but if this intestine Operation is permitted to continue too long, a great deal will get away,
and the remaining grow flat and vapid, as Dr. Quincy well observes. Now tho' a small quantity
of Yeast is necessary to break the Band of Corruption in the Wort, yet it is in itself of a
poisonous Nature, as many other Acids are; for if a Plaister of thick Yeast be applied to the
Wrist as some have done for an Ague, it will there raise little Pustules or Blisters in some
degree like that Venomous! (As I have just reason in a particular Sense to call it) Ingredient
Cantharide, which is one of the Shop Poisons. Here then I shall observe, that I have known
several beat the Yeast into the Wort for a Week or more together to improve it, or in plainer
terms to load the Wort with its weighty and strong spirituous Particles; and that for two Reasons,
First, Because it will make the Liquor so heady, that five Bushels of Malt may be equal in
strength to six, and that by the stupifying Narcotick Qualities of the Yeast; which mercenary
subtilty and imposition has so prevailed to my Knowledge with the Vulgar and Ignorant, that
it has caused many of them to return the next Day to the same Alehouse, as believing they had
stronger and better Drink than others: But alas, how are such deceived that know no other than
that it is the pure Product of the Malt, when at the same time they are driving Nails into
their Coffins, by impregnating their Blood with the corrupt Qualities of this poisonous acid,
as many of its Drinkers have proved, by suffering violent Head-achs, loss of Appetite, and
other Inconveniencies the Day following, and sometimes longer, after a Debauch of such Liquor;
who would not perhaps for a great reward swallow a Spoonful of thick Yeast by itself, and yet
without any concern may receive for ought they know several, dissolved in the Vehicle of Ale,
and then the corrosive Corpuscles of the Yeast being mix'd with the Ale, cannot fail (when
forsaken in the Canals of the Body of their Vehicle) to do the same mischief as they would
if taken by themselves undiluted, only with this difference, that they may in this Form be
carried sometimes further in the animal Frame, and so discover their malignity in some of the
inmost recesses thereof, which also is the very Case of malignant Waters, as a most learned
Doctor observes.

Secondly, They alledge for beating the Yeast into Wort, that it gives it a fine tang or relish,
or as they call it at London, it makes the Ale bite of the Yeast; but this flourish indeed
is for no other reason than to further its Sale, and tho' it may be agreeable to some Bigots,
to me it proves a discovery of the infection by its nauseous taste; however my surprize is
lessen'd, when I remember the Plymouth People, who are quite the reverse of them at Dover and
Chatham; for the first are so attach'd to their white thick Ale, that many have undone themselves
by drinking it; nor is their humour much different as to the common Brewers brown Ale, who
when the Customer wants a Hogshead, they immediately put in a Handful of Salt and another of
Flower, and so bring it up, this is no sooner on the Stilling but often Tapp'd, that it may
carry a Froth on the Top of the Pot, otherwise they despise it: The Salt commonly answered
its End of causing the Tiplers to become dryer by the great Quantities they drank, that it
farther excited by the biting pleasant stimulating quality the Salt strikes the Palate with.
The Flower also had its seducing share by pleasing the Eye and Mouth with its mantling Froth,
so that the Sailors that are often here in great Numbers used to consume many Hogsheads of
this common Ale with much delight, as thinking it was intirely the pure Product of the Malt.

Their white Ale is a clear Wort made from pale Malt, and fermented with what they call ripening,
which is a Composition, they say, of the Flower of Malt, Yeast and Whites of Eggs, a Nostrum
made and sold only by two or three in those Parts, but the Wort is brewed and the Ale vended
by many of the Publicans; which is drank while it is fermenting in Earthen Steens, in such
a thick manner as resembles butter'd Ale, and sold for Twopence Halfpenny the full Quart. It
is often prescribed by Physicians to be drank by wet Nurses for the encrease of their Milk,
and also as a prevalent Medicine for the Colick and Gravel. But the Dover and Chatham People
won't drink their Butt-Beer, unless it is Aged, fine and strong.

Of working and fermenting London Stout Beer and Ale.

In my Brewhouse at London, the Yeast at once was put into the Tun to work the Stout Beer and
Ale with, as not having the Conveniency of doing otherwise, by reason the After-worts of small
Beer comes into the same Backs or Coolers where the strong Worts had just been, by this means,
and the shortness of time we have to ferment our strong Drinks, we cannot make Reserves of
cold Worts to mix with and check the too forward working of those Liquors, for there we brewed
three times a Week throughout the Year, as most of the great ones do in London, and some others
five times. The strong Beer brewed for keeping is suffered to be Blood-warm in the Winter when
the Yeast is put into it, that it may gradually work two Nights and a Day at least, for this
won't admit of such a hasty Operation as the common brown Ale will, because if it is work'd
too warm and hasty, such Beer won't keep near so long as that fermented cooler. The brown Ale
has indeed its Yeast put into it in the Evening very warm, because they carry it away the very
next Morning early to their Customers, who commonly draw it out in less than a Week's time.
The Pale or Amber Ales are often kept near it, not quite a Week under a fermentation, for the
better incorporating the Yeast with Wort, by beating it in several times for the foregoing Reasons.

Of working or fermenting Drinks brewed by Private Families.

I mean such who Brew only for their own use, whether it be a private Family or a Victualler.
In this Case be it for Stout Beers, or for any of the Ales; the way that is used in Northamptonshire,
and by good Brewers elsewhere; is, to put some Yeast into a small quantity of warm Wort in
a Hand-bowl, which for a little while swims on the Top, where it works out and leisurely mixes
with the Wort, that is first quite cold in Summer, and almost so in Winter; for the cooler
it is work'd the longer it will keep, too much Heat agitating the spirituous Particles into
too quick a motion, whereby they spend themselves too fast, or fly away too soon, and then
the Drink will certainly work into a blister'd Head that is never natural; but when it ferments
by moderate degrees into a fine white curl'd Head, its Operation is then truly genuine, and
plainly shews the right management of the Brewer. To one Hogshead of Beer, that is to be kept
nine Months, I put a Quart of thick Yeast, and ferment it as cool as it will admit of, two
Days together, in October or March, and if I find it works too fast, I check it at leisure
by stirring in some raw Wort with a Hand-bowl: So likewise in our Country Ales we take the
very same method, because of having them keep some time, and this is so nicely observed by
several, that I have seen them do the very same by their small Beer Wort; now by these several
Additions of raw Wort, there are as often new Commotions raised in the Beer or Ale, which cannot
but contribute to the rarefaction and comminution of the whole; but whether it is by these
joining Principles of the Wort and Yeast, that the Drink is rendered smoother, or that the
spirituous Parts are more entangled and kept from making their Escape, I can't determine; yet
sure it is, that such small Liquors generally sparkle and knit out of the Barrel as others
out of a Bottle, and is as pleasant Ale as ever I drank.

Others again for Butt or Stout Beer will, when they find it works up towards a thick Yeast,
mix it once and beat it in again with the Hand-bowl or Jett; and when it has work'd up a second
time in such a manner, they put it into the Vessel with the Yeast on the Top and the Sediments
at Bottom, taking particular Care to have some more in a Tub near the Cask to fill it up as
it works over, and when it has done working, leave it with a thick Head of Yeast on to preserve it.

But for Ale that is not to be kept very long, they Hop it accordingly, and beat the Yeast in
every four or five Hours for two Days successively in the warm weather, and four in the Winter
till the Yeast begins to work heavy and sticks to the hollow part of the Bowl, if turned down
on the same, then they take all the Yeast off at Top and leave all the Dregs behind, putting
only up the clear Drink, and when it is a little work'd in the Barrel, it will be fine in a
few Days and ready for drinking. But this, last way of beating in the Yeast too long, I think
I have sufficiently detected, and hope, as it is how declining, it will never revive again,
and for which reason I have in my second Book encouraged all light fermentations, as the most
natural for the Malt Liquor and the human Body.

Of forwarding and retarding the fermentation of malt Liquors.

In case Beer or Ale is backward in working, it is often practised to cast some Flower out of
the Dusting Box, or with the Hand over the Top of the Drink, which will become a sort of Crust
or Cover to help to keep the Cold out: Others will put in one or two Ounces of powder'd Ginger,
which will so heat the Wort as to bring it forward: Others will take a Gallon Stone Bottle
and fill it with boiling water, which being well Cork'd, is put into the working Tub, where
it will communicate a gradual Heat for some time and forward the fermentation: Others will
reserve some raw Wort, which they heat and mix with the rest, but then due Care must be taken
that the Pot in which it is heated has no manner of Grease about it lest it impedes, instead
of promoting the working, and for this reason some nice Brewers will not suffer a Candle too
near the Wort, lest it drop into it. But for retarding and keeping back any Drink that is too
much heated in working, the cold raw Wort, as I have said before, is the most proper of any
thing to check it with, tho' I have known some to put one or more Pewter Dishes into it for
that purpose, or it may be broke into several other Tubs, where by its shallow lying it will
be taken off its Fury. Others again, to make Drink work that is backward, will take the whites
of two Eggs and beat them up with half a Quartern of good Brandy, and put it either into the
working Vat, or into the Cask, and it will quickly bring it forward if a warm Cloth is put
over the Bung. Others will tye up Bran in a coarse thin Cloth and put it into the Vat, where
by its spungy and flowery Nature and close Bulk it will absorp a quantity of the Drink, and
breed a heat to forward its working. I know an Inn-keeper of a great Town in Bucks that is
so curious as to take off all the top Yeast first, and then by a Peg near the bottom of his
working Tub, he draws off the Beer or Ale, so that the Dreggs are by this means left behind.
This I must own is very right in Ales that are to be drank soon, but in Beers that are to lye
nine or twelve Months in a Butt or other Cask, there certainly will be wanted some Feces or
Sediment for the Beer to feed on, else it must consequently grow hungry, sharp and eager; and
therefore if its own top and bottom are not put into a Cask with the Beer, some other Artificial
Composition or Lee should supply its Place, that is wholsomer, and will better feed with such
Drink than its own natural Settlement, and therefore I have here inserted several curious Receipts
for answering this great End.

CHAP. XIV.

 Of an Artificial Lee for Stout or Stale Beer to feed on.

This Article, as it is of very great Importance in the curing of our malt Liquors, requires
a particular regard to this last management of them, because in my Opinion the general misfortune
of the Butt or keeping Beers drinking so hard and harsh, is partly owing to the nasty foul
Feces that lye at the bottom of the Cask, compounded of the Sediments of Malt, Hops and Yeast,
that are, all Clogg'd with gross rigid Salts, which by their long lying in the Butt or other
Vessel, so tinctures the Beer as to make it partake of all their raw Natures: For such is the
Feed, such is the Body, as may be perceived by Eels taken out of dirty Bottoms, that are sure
to have a muddy taste, when the Silver sort that are catched in Gravelly or Sandy clear Rivers
Eat sweet and fine: Nor can this ill property be a little in those Starting (as they call it
in London) new thick Beers that were carry'd directly from my Brewhouse, and by a Leather Pipe
or Spout conveyed into the Butt as they stood in the Cellar, which I shall further demonstrate
by the Example of whole Wheat, that is, by many put into such Beer to feed and preserve it,
as being reckoned a substantial Alcali; however it has been proved that such Wheat in about
three Years time has eat into the very Wood of the Cask, and there Hony-comb'd it by making
little hollow Cavities in the Staves. Others there are that will hang a Bag of Wheat in the
Vessel that it mayn't touch the Bottom, but in both Cases the Wheat is discovered to absorp
and collect the saline acid qualities of the Beer, Yeast and Hop, by which it is impregnated
with their sharp qualities, as a Toast of Bread is put into Punch or Beer, whose alcalous hollow
Nature will attract and make a Lodgment of the acid strong Particles in either, as is proved
by eating the inebriating Toast, and therefore the Frenchman says, the English are right in
putting a Toast into the Liquor, but are Fools for eating it: Hence it is that such whole Wheat
is loaded with the qualities of the unwholsome Settlements or Grounds of the Beer, and becomes
of such a corroding Nature, as to do this mischief; and for that reason, some in the North
will hang a Bag of the Flower of malted Oats, Wheat, Pease and Beans in the Vessels of Beer,
as being a lighter and mellower Body than whole Wheat or its Flower, and more natural to the
Liquor: But whether it be raw Wheat or Malted, it is supposed, after this receptacle has emitted
its alcalous Properties to the Beer, and taken in all it can of the acid qualities thereof,
that such Beer will by length of Age prey upon that again, and so communicate its pernicious
Effects to the Body of Man, as Experience seems to justify by the many sad Examples that I
have seen in the Destruction of several lusty Brewers Servants, who formerly scorn'd what they
then called Flux Ale, to the preference of such corroding consuming Stale Beers; and therefore
I have hereafter advised that such Butt or keeping Beers be Tapp'd at nine or twelve Months
end at furthest, and then an Artificial Lee will have a due time allowed it to do good and
not harm.

An Excellent Composition for feeding Butts or keeping Beers with.

Take a Quart of French Brandy, or as much of English, that is free from any burnt Tang, or
other ill taste, and is full Proof, to this put as much Wheat or Flower as will knead it into
a Dough, put it in long pieces into the Bung Hole, as soon as the Beer has done working, or
afterwards, and let it gently fall piece by piece to the bottom of the Butt, this will maintain
the Drink in a mellow freshness, keep staleness off for some time, and cause it to be the stronger
as it grows Aged.

ANOTHER.

Take one Pound of Treacle or Honey, one Pound of the Powder of dryed Oyster-shells or fat Chalk,
mix them well and put it into a Butt, as soon as it has done working or some time after, and
Bung it well, this will both fine and preserve the Beer in a soft, smooth Condition for a great
while.

ANOTHER.

Take a Peck of Egg-shells and dry them in an Oven, break and mix them with two Pound of fat
Chalk, and mix them with water wherein four Pounds of coarse Sugar has been boiled, and put
it into the Butt as aforesaid.

To fine and preserve Beers and Ales by boiling an Ingredient in the Wort.

This most valuable way I frequently follow both for Ale, Butt-beer and Small Beer, and that
is, in each Barrel Copper of Wort, I put in a Pottle, or two Quarts of whole Wheat as soon
as I can, that it may soak before it boils, then I strain it thro' a Sieve, when I put the
Wort in cooling Tubs, and if it is thought fit the same Wheat may be boiled in a second Copper:
Thus there will be extracted a gluey Consistence, which being incorporated with the Wort by
boiling, gives it a more thick and ponderous Body, and when in the Cask, soon makes a Sediment
or Lee, as the Wort is more or less loaded with the weighty Particles of this fizy Body; but
if such Wheat was first parched or baked in an Oven, it would do better, as being rather too
raw as it comes from the Ear.

Another Way.

A Woman, who lived at Leighton Buzzard in Bedfordshire, and had the best Ale in the Town, once
told a Gentleman, she had Drink just done working in the Barrel, and before it was Bung'd would
wager it was fine enough to Drink out of a Glass, in which it should maintain a little while
a high Froth; and it was true, for the Ivory shavings that she boiled in her Wort, was the
Cause of it, which an Acquaintance of mine accidentally had a View of as they lay spread over
the Wort in the Copper; so will Hartshorn shavings do the same and better, both of them being
great finers and preservers of malt Liquors against staleness and sourness, and are certainly
of a very alcalous Nature. Or if they are put into a Cask when you Bung it down, it will be
of service for that purpose; but these are dear in Comparison of the whole Wheat, which will
in a great measure supply their Place, and after it is used, may be given to a poor Body, or
to the Hog.

To stop the Fret in Malt Liquors.

Take a Quart of Black Cherry Brandy, and pour it in at the Bung-hole of the Hogshead and stop
it close.

To recover deadish Beer.

When strong Drink grows flat, by the loss of its Spirits, take four or five Gallons out of
a Hogshead, and boil it with five Pound of Honey, skim it, and when cold, put it to the rest,
and stop it up close: This will make it pleasant, quick and strong.

 To make stale Beer drink new.

Take the Herb Horehound stamp it and strain it, then put a Spoonful of the juice (which is
an extream good Pectoral) to a pitcher-full of Beer, let it stand covered about two Hours and
drink it.

 To fine Malt Liquors.

Take a pint of water, half an Ounce of unslack'd Lime, mix them well together, let it stand
three Hours and the Lime will settle to the Bottom, and the water be as clear as Glass, pour
the water from the Sediment, and put it into your Ale or Beer, mix it with half an Ounce of
Ising-glass first cut small and boiled, and in five Hours time or less the Beer in the Barrel
will settle and clear.

There are several other Compositions that may be used for this purpose, but none that I ever
heard of will answer like those most Excellent Balls that Mr. Ellis of Little Gaddesden in
Hertfordshire has found out by his own Experience to be very great Refiners, Preservers and
Relishers of Malt Liquors and Cyders, and will also recover damag'd Drinks, as I have mentioned
in my Second Book, where I have given a further Account of some other things that will fine,
colour and improve Malt Drinks: The Balls are sold at [missing text]

CHAP.

Malt Liquors, as well as several others, have long lain under the disreputation of being adulterated
and greatly abused by avaricious and ill-principled People, to augment their Profits at the
Expence of the precious Health of human Bodies, which, tho' the greatest Jewel in Life, is
said to be too often lost by the Deceit of the Brewer, and the Intemperance of the Drinker:
This undoubtedly was one, and I believe the greatest, of the Lord Bacon's Reasons for saying,
he thought not one Englishman in a thousand died a natural Death. Nor is it indeed to be much
wondered at, when, according to Report, several of the Publicans make it their Business to
study and practise this Art, witness what I am afraid is too true, that some have made use
of the Coculus India Berry for making Drink heady, and saving the Expence of Malt; but as this
is a violent Potion by its narcotick stupifying Quality, if taken in too large a degree, I
hope this will be rather a prevention of its use than an invitation, it being so much of the
nature of the deadly Nightshade, that it bears the same Character; and I am sure the latter
is bad enough; for one of my Neighbour's Brothers was killed by eating its Berries that grow
in some of our Hedges, and so neatly resembles the black Cherry, that the Boy took the wrong
for the right.

There is another sinister Practice said to be frequently used by ill Persons to supply the
full quantity of Malt, and that is Coriander Seeds: This also is of a heady nature boiled in
the Wort, one Pound of which will answer to a Bushel of Malt, as was ingenuously confess'd
to me by a Gardener, who own'd he sold a great deal of it to Alehouse Brewers (for I don't
suppose the great Brewer would be concern'd in any such Affair) for that purpose, purpose,
at Ten-pence per Pound; but how wretchedly ignorant are those that make use of it, not knowing
the way first to cure and prepare it for this and other mixtures, without which it is a dangerous
thing, and will cause Sickness in the Drinkers of it. Others are said to make use of Lime-stones
to fine and preserve the Drink; but to come off the fairest in such foul Artifices, it has
been too much a general Practice to beat the Yeast so long into the Ale, that without doubt
it has done great Prejudice to the Healths of many others besides the Person I have writ of
in the Preface of my Second Book. For the sake then of Seller and Buyer, I have here offered
several valuable Receipts for fining, preserving and mellowing Beers and Ales, in such a true
healthful and beneficial manner, that from henceforth after the Perusal of this Book, and the
knowledge of their worth are fully known, no Person, I hope, will be so sordidly obstinate
as to have any thing to do with such unwholsome Ingredients; because these are not only of
the cheapest sort, but will answer their End and Purpose; and the rather, since Malts are now
only twenty Shillings per Quarter, and like to hold a low Price for Reasons that I could here
assign.

I own, I formerly thought they were too valuable to expose to the Publick by reason of their
Cheapness and great Virtues, as being most of them wholsomer than the Malt itself, which is
but a corrupted Grain. But, as I hope they will do considerable Service in the World towards
having clear salubrious and pleasant Malt Liquors in most private Families and Alehouses, I
have my Satisfaction.

CHAP. XVI.

Of the Cellar or Repository for keeping Beers and Ales.

It's certain by long Experience, that the Weather or Air has not only a Power or Influence
in Brewings; but also after the Drink is in the Barrel, Hogshead or Butt, in Cellars or other
Places, which is often the cause of forwarding or retarding the fineness of Malt Liquors; for
if we brew in cold Weather, and the Drink is to stand in a Cellar of Clay, or where Springs
rise, or Waters lye or pass through, such a Place by consequence will check the due working
of the Drink, chill, flat, deaden and hinder it from becoming fine. So likewise if Beer or
Ale is brewed in hot Weather and put into Chalky, Gravelly or Sandy Cellars, and especially
if the Windows open to the South, South-East, or South-West, then it is very likely it will
not keep long, but be muddy and stale: Therefore, to keep Beer in such a Cellar, it should
be brewed in October, that the Drink may have time to cure itself before the hot Weather comes
on; but in wettish or damp Cellars, 'tis best to Brew in March, that the Drink may have time
to fine and settle before the Winter Weather is advanced. Now such Cellar Extremities should,
if it could be done, be brought into a temperate State, for which purpose some have been so
curious as to have double or treble Doors to their Cellar to keep the Air out, and then carefully
shut the outward, before they enter the inward one, whereby it will be more secure from aerial
Alterations; for in Cellars and Places, that are most exposed to such Seasons, Malt Liquors
are frequently disturb'd and made unfit for a nice Drinker; therefore if a Cellar is kept dry
and these Doors to it, it is reckoned warm in Winter and cool in Summer, but the best of Cellars
are thought to be those in Chalks, Gravels or Sands, and particularly in Chalks, which are
of a drying quality more than any other, and consequently dissipates Damps the most of all
Earths, which makes it contribute much to the good keeping of the Drink; for all damp Cellars
are prejudicial to the Preservation of Beers and Ales, and sooner bring on the rotting of the
Casks and Hoops than the dry ones; Insomuch that in a chalky Cellar near me, their Ashen broad
Hoops have lasted above thirty Years. Besides, in such inclosed Cellars and temperate Air,
the Beers and Ales ripen more kindly, are better digested and softned, and drink smoother:
But when the Air is in a disproportion by the Cellars letting in Heats and Colds, the Drink
will grow Stale and be disturbed, sooner than when the Air is kept out. From hence it is, that
in some Places their Malt Liquors are exceeding good, because they brew with Pale or Amber
Malts, Chalky Water, and keep their Drinks in close Vaults or proper dry Cellars, which is
of such Importance, that notwithstanding any Malt Liquor may be truly brewed, yet it may be
spoiled in a bad Cellar that may cause such alternate Fermentations as to make it thick and
sour, tho' it sometimes happens that after such Changes it fines itself again; and to prevent
these Commotions of the Beer, some brew their pale Malt in March and their brown in October,
for that the pale Malt, having not so many fiery Particles in it as the brown, stands more
in need of the Summer's Weather to ripen it, while the brown sort being more hard and dry is
better able to defend itself against the Winter Colds that will help to smooth its harsh Particles;
yet when they happen to be too violent, Horse-dung should be laid to the Windows as a Fortification
against them; but if there were no Lights at all to a Cellar, it would be better.

Some are of Opinion, that October is the best of all other Months to brew any sort of Malt
in, by reason there are so many cold Months directly follow, that will digest the Drink and
make it much excel that Brewed in March because such Beer will not want that Care and Watching,
as that brewed in March absolutely requires, by often taking out and putting in the Vent-peg
on Change of Weather; and if it is always left out, then it deadens and palls the Drink; yet
if due Care is not taken in this respect, a Thunder or Stormy Night may marr all, by making
the Drink ferment and burst the Cask; for which Reason, as Iron Hoops are most in Fashion at
this time, they are certainly the greatest Security to the safety of the Drink thus exposed;
and next to them is the Chesnut Hoop; both which will endure a shorter or longer time as the
Cellar is more or less dry, and the Management attending them. The Iron Hoop generally begins
to rust first at the Edges, and therefore should be rubbed off when opportunity offers, and
be both kept from wet as much as possible; for 'tis Rust that eats the Iron Hoop in two sometimes
in ten or twelve Years, when the Ashen and Chesnut in dry Cellars have lasted three times as long.

CHAP. XVII.

Of Cleaning and Sweetening of Casks.

In Case your Cask is a Butt, then with cold Water first rince out the Lees clean, and have
ready, boiling or very hot Water, which put in, and with a long Stale and a little Birch fastened
to its End, scrub the Bottom as well as you can. At the same time let there be provided another
shorter Broom of about a Foot and a half long, that with one Hand may be so imployed in the
upper and other Parts as to clean the Cask well: So in a Hogshead or other smaller Vessel,
the one-handed short Broom may be used with Water, or with Water, Sand or Ashes, and be effectually
cleaned; the outside of the Cask about the Bung-hole should be well washed, lest the Yeast,
as it works over, carries some of its Filth with it.

But to sweeten a Barrel, Kilderkin, Firkin or Pin in the great Brewhouses, they put them over
the Copper Hole for a Night together, that the Steam of the boiling Water or Wort may penetrate
into the Wood; this Way is such a furious Searcher, that unless the Cask is new hooped just
before, it will be apt to fall in pieces.

Another Way.

Take a Pottle, or more, of Stone Lime, and put it into the Cask; on this pour some Water and
stop it up directly, shaking it well about.

Another Way.

Take a long Linnen Rag and dip it in melted Brimstone, light it at the end, and let it hang
pendant with the upper part of the Rag fastened to the wooden Bung; this is a most quick sure
Way, and will not only sweeten, but help to fine the Drink.

 Another.

Or to make your Cask more pleasant, you may use the Vintners Way thus: Take four Ounces of
Stone Brimstone, one Ounce of burnt Alum, and two Ounces of Brandy; melt all these in an Earthen
Pan over hot Coals, and dip therein a piece of new Canvas, and instantly sprinkle thereon the
Powders of Nutmegs, Cloves, Coriander and Anise-seeds: This Canvas set on fire, and let it
burn hanging in the Cask fastened at the end with the wooden Bung, so that no Smoke comes out.

 For a Musty Cask.

Boil some Pepper in water and fill the Cask with it scalding hot.

 For a very stinking Vessel.

The last Remedy is the Coopers taking out one of the Heads of the Cask to scrape the inside,
or new-shave the Staves, and is the surest way of all others, if it is fired afterwards within-side
a small matter, as the Cooper knows how.

These several Methods may be made use of at Discretion, and will be of great Service where
they are wanted. The sooner also a Remedy is applied, the better; else the Taint commonly encreases,
as many have to their prejudice proved, who have made use of such Casks, in hopes the next
Beer will overcome it; but when once a Cask is infected, it will be a long while, if ever,
before it becomes sweet, if no Art is used. Many therefore of the careful sort, in case they
han't a Convenience to fill their Vessel as soon as it is empty, will stop it close, to prevent
the Air and preserve the Lees sound, which will greatly tend to the keeping of the Cask pure
and sweet against the next Occasion.

 To prepare a new Vessel to keep Malt Liquors in.

A new Vessel is most improperly used by some ignorant People for strong Drink after only once
or twice scalding with Water, which is so wrong, that such Beer or Ale will not fail of tasting
thereof for half, if not a whole Year afterwards; such is the Tang of the Oak and its Bark,
as may be observed from the strong Scents of Tan-Yards, which the Bark is one cause of. To
prevent then this Inconvenience, when your Brewing is over put up some Water scalding hot,
and let it run throu' the Grains, then boil it and fill up the Cask, stop it well and let it
stand till it is cold, do this twice, then take the Grounds of strong Drink and boil in it
green Wallnut Leaves and new Hay or Wheat Straw, and put all into the Cask, that it be full
and stop it close. After this, use it for small Beer half a Year together, and then it will
be thoroughly sweet and fit for strong Drinks; or

 Another Way.

Take a new Cask and dig a Hole in the Ground, in which it may lye half depth with the Bung
downwards; let it remain a Week, and it will greatly help this or any stinking musty Cask.
But besides these, I have writ of two other excellent Ways to sweeten musty or stinking Casks,
in my Second Book of Brewing.

Wine Casks.

These, in my Opinion, are the cheapest of all others to furnish a Person readily with, as being
many of them good Casks for Malt Liquors, because the Sack and White-Wine sorts are already
season'd to Hand, and will greatly improve Beers and Ales that are put in them: But beware
of the Rhenish Wine Cask for strong Drinks; for its Wood is so tinctured with this sharp Wine,
that it will hardly ever be free of it, and therefore such Cask is best used for Small Beer:
The Claret Cask will a great deal sooner be brought into a serviceable State for holding strong
Drink, if it is two or three times scalded with Grounds of Barrels, and afterwards used for
small Beer for some time. I have bought a Butt or Pipe for eight Shillings in London with some
Iron Hoops on it, a good Hogshead for the same, and the half Hogshead for five Shillings, the
Carriage for a Butt by the Waggon thirty Miles is two Shillings and Sixpence, and the Hogshead
Eighteen-pence: But, to cure a Claret Cask of its Colour and Taste, put a Peck of Stone-Lime
into a Hogshead, and pour upon it three Pails of Water; bung immediately with a Wood-or Cork
Bung, and shake it well about a quarter of an Hour, and let it stand a Day and Night and it
will bring off the red Colour, and alter the Taste of the Cask very much. But of three several
other excellent Methods for curing musty, stinking, new and other tainted Casks, I have writ
of in my Account of Casks in my Second Book.

CHAP. XVIII.

Of Bunging Casks and Carrying of Malt Liquors to some distance.

I am sure this is of no small Consequence, however it may be esteemed as a light matter by
some; for if this is not duly perform'd, all our Charge, Labour and Care will be lost; and
therefore here I shall dissent from my London Fashion, where I bung'd up my Ale with Pots of
Clay only, or with Clay mix'd with Bay Salt, which is the better of the two, because this Salt
will keep the Clay moist longer than in its Original State; and the Butt Beers and fine Ales
were Bung'd with Cork drove in with a piece of Hop-Sack or Rag, which I think are all insipid,
and the occasion of spoiling great Quantities of Drink, especially the small Beers; for when
the Clay is dry, which is soon in Summer, there cannot be a regular Vent thro' it, and then
the Drink from that time flattens and stales to the great loss in a Year to some Owners, and
the Benefit of the Brewer; for then a fresh Cask must be Tapp'd to supply it, and the remaining
part of the other throw'd away. Now, to prevent this great Inconvenience, my Bung-holes are
not quite of the largest size of all, and yet big enough for the common wooden Iron Hoop'd
Funnel used in some Brew-houses: In this I put in a turned piece of Ash or Sallow three Inches
broad at Top, and two Inches and a half long, first putting in a double piece of dry brown
Paper, that is so broad that an Inch or more may be out of it, after the wooden Bung is drove
down with a Hammer pretty tight; this Paper must be furl'd or twisted round the Bung, and another
loose piece upon and around that, with a little Yeast, and a small Peg put into the Bung, which
is to be raised at Discretion when the Beer is drawing, or at other times to give it Vent if
there should be occasion: Others will put some Coal or Wood Ashes wetted round this Bung, which
will bind very hard, and prevent any Air getting into or out of the Cask; but this in time
is apt to rot, and wear the Bung-hole by the Salt or Sulphur in the Ashes, and employing a
Knife to scrape it afterwards. Yet, for keeping Beers, it's the best Security of all other
ways whatsoever.

There is also a late Invention practised by a common Brewer in the Country that I am acquainted
with, for the safe Carriage of Drink on Drays, to some distance without losing any of it, and
that is in the Top Center of one of these Bungs, he puts in a wooden Funnel, whose Spout is
about four Inches long, and less than half an Inch Diameter at Bottom; this is turned at Top
into a concave Fashion like a hollow round Bowl, that will hold about a Pint, which is a constant
Vent to the Cask, and yet hinders the Liquor from ascending no faster than the Bowl can receive,
and return it again into the Barrel: I may say further, he has brought a Barrel two Miles,
and it was then full, when it arrived at his Customers, because the Pint that was put into
the Funnel, at setting out, was not at all lost when he took it off the Dray; this may be also
made of Tin; and will serve from the Butt to the small Cask.

In the Butt there is a Cork-hole made about two Inches below the upper Head, and close under
that a piece of Leather is nailed Spout-fashion, that jetts three Inches out, from which the
Yeast works and falls into a Tub, and when the working is over the Cork is put closely in,
for the Bung in the Head of the upright Cask is put in as soon as it is filled up with new
Drink: Now when such a Cask is to be broach'd and a quick Draught is to follow, then it may
be tapp'd at Bottom; but if otherwise, the Brass Cock ought to be first put in at the middle,
and before the Drink sinks to that it should be Tapp'd at Bottom to prevent the breaking of
the Head of Yeast, and its growing stale, flat and sour.

In some Places in the Country when they brew Ale or Beer to send to London at a great Distance,
they let it be a Year old before they Tap it, so that then it is perfectly fine; this they
put into small Casks that have a Bung-hole only fit for a large Cork, and then they immediately
put in a Role of Bean-flour first kneaded with Water or Drink, and baked in an Oven, which
is all secured by pitching in the Cork, and so sent in the Waggon; the Bean-flour feeding and
preserving the Body of the Drink all the way, without fretting or causing it to burst the Cask
for want of Vent, and when Tapp'd will also make the Drink very brisk, because the Flour is
in such a hard Consistence, that it won't dissolve in that time; but if a little does mix with
the Ale or Beer, its heavy Parts will sooner fine than thicken the Drink and keep it mellow
and lively to the last, if Air is kept out of the Barrel.

CHAP.  XIX.

Of the Strength and Age of Malt Liquors.

Whether they be Ales or strong Beers, it is certain that the midling sort is allowed by Physicians
to be the most agreeable of any, especially to those of a sedentary Life, or those that are
not occupied in such Business as promotes Perspiration enough to throw out and break the Viscidities
of the stronger sorts; on which account the laborious Man has the advantage, whose Diet being
poor and Body robust, the strength of such Liquors gives a Supply and better digests into Nourishment:
But for the unactive Man a Hogshead of Ale which is made from six Bushels of Malt is sufficient
for a Diluter of their Food, and will better assist their Constitution than the more strong
sort, that would in such produce Obstructions and ill Humours; and therefore that Quantity
for Ale, and ten Bushels for a Hogshead of strong Beer that should not be Tapp'd under nine
Months, is the most healthful. And this I have experienc'd by enjoying such an Amber Liquor
that has been truly brewed from good Malt, as to be of a Vinous Nature, that would permit of
a hearty Dose over Night, and yet the next Morning leave a Person light, brisk and unconcern'd.
This then is the true Nostrum of Brewing, and ought to be studied and endeavoured for by all
those that can afford to follow the foregoing Rules, and then it will supply in a great measure
those chargeable (and often adulterated tartarous arthritick) Wines. So likewise for small
Beer, especially in a Farmer's Family where it is not of a Body enough, the Drinkers will be
feeble in hot Weather and not be able to perform their Work, and will also bring on Distempers,
besides the loss of time, and a great waste of such Beer that is generally much thrown away;
because Drink is certainly a Nourisher of the Body, as well as Meats, and the more substantial
they both are, the better will the Labourer go through his Work, especially at Harvest; and
in large Families the Doctor's Bills have proved the Evil of this bad Oeconomy, and far surmounted
the Charge of that Malt that would have kept the Servants in good Health, and preserved the
Beer from such Waste as the smaller sort is liable to.

'Tis therefore that some prudent Farmers will brew their Ale and small Beer in March, by allowing
of five or six Bushels of Malt, and two Pounds of Hops to the Hogshead of Ale, and a quarter
of Malt and three Pounds of Hops to five Barrels of small Beer. Others there are, that will
brew their Ale or strong Beer in October, and their small Beer a Month before it is wanted.
Others will brew their Ale and small Beer in April, May and June; but this according to humour,
and therefore I have hinted of the several Seasons for Brewing these Liquors: However in my
Opinion, whether it be strong or small Drinks, they should be clear, smooth and not too small,
if they are design'd for Profit and Health; for if they are otherwise, it will be a sad Evil
to Harvest Men, because then they stand most in need of the greatest Balsamicks: To this end
some of the softning Ingredients mentioned in the foregoing Receipts should be made use of
to feed it accordingly, if these Drinks are brewed forward. And that this particular important
Article in the Brewing Oeconomy may be better understood, I shall here recite Dr. Quincy's
Opinion of Malt Liquors, viz. The Age of Malt Drinks makes them more or less wholsome, and
seems to do somewhat the same as Hops; for those Liquors which are longest kept, are certainly
the least viscid; Age by degrees breaking the viscid Parts, and rendering them smaller, makes
them finer for Secretion; but this is always to be determined by their Strength, because in
Proportion to that will they sooner or later come to their full Perfection and likewise their
Decay, until the finer Spirits quite make their Escape, and the remainder becomes vapid and
sour. By what therefore has been already said, it will appear that the older Drinks are the
more healthful, so they be kept up to this Standard, but not beyond it. Some therefore are
of Opinion, that strong Beer brewed in October should be Tapp'd at Midsummer, and that brewed
in March at Christmas, as being most agreeable to the Seasons of the Year that follow such
Brewings: For then they will both have part of a Summer and Winter to ripen and digest their
several Bodies; and 'tis my humble Opinion, that where the Strength of the Beer, the Quantity
of Hops, the boiling Fermentation and the Cask are all rightly managed, there Drink may be
most excellent, and better at nine Months Age, than at nine Years, for Health and Pleasure
of Body. But to be truly certain of the right Time, there should be first an Examination made
by Pegging the Vessel to prove if such Drink is fine, the Hop sufficiently rotted, and it be
mellow and well tasted.

CHAP.  XX.

Of the Pleasure and Profit of Private Brewing, and the Charge of buying Malt Liquors.

Here I am to treat of the main Article of shewing the difference between brewing our own Ales
and Beers, and buying them, which I doubt not will appear so plain and evident, as to convince
any Reader, that many Persons may save well towards half in half, and have their Beer and Ale
strong, fine and aged at their own Discretion: A satisfaction that is of no small weight, and
the rather since I have now made known a Method of Brewing a Quantity of Malt with a little
Copper and a few Tubs, a Secret that has long wanted Publication; for now a Person may Brew
in a little Room, and that very safely by keeping his Wort from Foxing, as I have already explained,
which by many has been thought impossible heretofore; and this Direction is the more Valuable
as there are many Thousands who live in Cities and Towns, that have no more than a few Yards
Square of Room to perform a private Brewing in. And as for the trouble, it is easy to account
for by those who have time enough on their Hands, and would do nothing else if they had not
done this: Or if a Man is paid half a Crown a Day for a Quantity accordingly: Or if a Servant
can do this besides his other Work for the same Wages and Charge, I believe the following account
will make it appear it is over-ballanc'd considerably, by what such a Person may save in this
undertaking, besides the Pleasure of thoroughly knowing the several Ingredients and Cleanliness
of the Brewer and Utensils. In several of the Northern Counties of England, where they have
good Barley, Coak-dryed Malt, and the Drink brewed at Home, there are seldom any bad Ales or
Beers, because they have the Knowledge in Brewing so well, that there are hardly any common
Brewers amongst them: In the West indeed there are some few, but in the South and East Parts
there are many; and now follows the Account, that I have Stated according to my own general
Practice, viz.

A Calculation of the Charge and Profit of Brewing six Bushels of Malt for a private Family.

                                         L.   s.  d.
Six Bushels of Malt at 2s. 8d.
   per Bushel, Barley being this )
   Year 1733. sold for 14s. per  )     0   16   0
   Quarter by the Farmer           )

Hops one Pound                           0    1   6

Yeast a Quart                            0    0   4

Coals one Bushel, or if Wood or Furze    0    1   0

A Man's Wages a Day                      0    2   6
                                        ------------
                                 Total   1    1   4

Of these six Bushels of Malt I make one Hogshead of Ale and another of Small Beer: But if I
was to buy them of some common Brewers, the Charge will be as follows, viz.

                                         L    s.   d.

One Hogshead of Ale containing 48   )
   Gallons, at 6 d. per Gallon is )    1    4    0

One Hogshead of Small Beer          )
containing 54 Gallons, at 2 d.    )
0  9  0  per Gallon is            )    0    9    0
                                        ..

                                         1   13    0
                                        ..

                            Total Saved  0   11    8

By the above Account it plainly appears, that 11 s. and 8 d. is clearly gained in Brewing of
six Bushels of Malt at our own House for a private Family, and yet I make the Charge fuller
by 2 s. and 6 d. then it will happen with many, whose Conveniency by Servants, &c. may intirely
take it off; besides the six Bushels of Grains that are currently sold for Three-pence the
Bushel, which will make the Eleven and Eight-pence more by four Shillings, without reckoning
any thing for yeast, that in the very cheapest time sells here for Four-pence the Quart, and
many times there happens three Quarts from so much Drink; so that there may possibly be gained
in all sixteen Shillings and Eight-pence: A fine Sum indeed in so small a Quantity of Malt.
But here by course will arise a Question, whether this Ale is as good as that bought of some
of the common Brewers at Six-pence a Gallon; I can't say all is; however I can aver this, that
the Ale I brew in the Country from six Bushels of Malt for my Family, I think is generally
full as good, if not better than any I ever sold at that Price in my London Brewhouse: And
if I should say, that where the Malt, Water and Hops are right good, and the Brewer's Skill
answerable to them, there might be a Hogshead of as good Ale and another of small Beer made
from five Bushels as I desire to use for my Family, or for Harvest Men; It is no more than
I have many times experienced, and 'tis the common length I made for that Purpose. And whoever
makes use of true Pale and Amber Malts, and pursues the Directions of this Book, I doubt not
but will have their Expectation fully answered in this last Quantity, and so save the great
Expence of Excise that the common Brewers Drink is always clogg'd with, which is [blotted text]
than five Shillings for Ale and Eighteen-pence per Barrel for Small Beer.

CHAP.

In Brewing, your Malt ought to be sound and good, and after its making to lye two or more Months
in the Heap, to come to such a temper, that the Kernel may readily melt in the washing.

The well dressing your Malt, ought to be one chief Care; for unless it be freed from the Tails
and Dust, your Drink will not be fine and mellow as when it is clean dressed.

The grinding also must be considered according to the high or low drying of the Malt; for if
high dryed, then a gross grinding is best, otherwise a smaller may be done; for the Care in
grinding consists herein, lest too much of the Husk being ground small should mix with the
Liquor, which makes a gross Feces, and consequently your Drink will have too fierce a Fermentation,
and by that means make it Acid, or that we call Stale.

When your Malt is ground, let it stand in Sacks twenty-four Hours at least, to the end that
the Heat in grinding may be allayed, and 'tis conceived by its so standing that the Kernel
will dissolve the better.

The measure and quantity we allow of Hops and Malt, is five Quarter of Malt to three Hogsheads
of Beer, and eighteen Pounds of Hops at least to that Quantity of Malt, and if Malt be pale
dryed, then add three or four Pounds of Hops more.

The Choice of Liquor for Brewing is of considerable advantage in making good Drink, the softest
and cleanest water is to be prererr'd, your harsh water is not to be made use of.

You are to boil your first Liquor, adding a Handful or two of Hops to it, then before you strike
it over to your Goods or Malt, cool in as much Liquor, as will bring it to a temper not to
scald the Malt, for it is a fault not to take the Liquor as high as possible but not to scald.
The next Liquors do the same.

And indeed all your Liquors ought to be taken as high as may be, that is not to scald.

When you let your Wort from your Malt into the Underback, put to it a Handful or two of Hops,
'twill preserve it from that accident which Brewers call Blinking or Foxing.

In boiling your Worts, the first Wort boil high or quick; for the quicker the first Wort is
boiled, the better it is.

The second boil more than the first, and the third or last more than the second.

In cooling lay your Worts thin, and let each be well cooled, and Care must be taken in letting
them down into the Tun, that you do it leisurely, to the end that as little of the Feces or
Sediment which causes the Fermentation to be fierce or mild, for Note, there is in all fermented
Liquors, Salt and Sulphur, and to keep these two Bodies in a due Proportion, that the Salt
does not exalt itself above the Sulphur, consists a great part of the Art in Brewing.

When your Wort is first let into your Tun, put but a little Yeast to it, and let it work by
degrees quietly, and if you find it works but moderate, whip in the Yeast two or three times
or more, till you find your Drink well fermented, for without a full opening of the Body by
fermentation, it will not be perfect fine, nor will it drink clean and light.

When you cleanse, do it by a Cock from your Tun, placed six Inches from the Bottom, to the
end that most of the Sediment may be left behind, which may be thrown on your Malt to mend
your Small Beer.

When your Drink is Tunn'd, fill your Vessel full, let it work at the Bung-hole, and have a
reserve in a small Cask to fill it up, and don't put any of the Drink which will be under the
Yeast after it is work'd over into your Vessels, but put it by itself in another Cask, for
it will not be so good as your other in the Cask.

This done, you must wait for the finishing of the fermentation, then stop it close, and let
it stand till the Spring, for Brewing ought to be done in the Month of October, that it may
have time to settle and digest all the Winter Season.

In the Spring you must unstop your Vent-hole and thereby see whether your Drink doth ferment
or not, for as soon as the warm Weather comes, your Drink will have another fermentation, which
when it is over, let it be again well stopped and stand till September or longer, and then
Peg it; and if you find it pretty fine, the Hop well rotted and of a good pleasant taste for
drinking.

Then and not before draw out a Gallon of it, put to it two Ounces of Ising-glass cut small
and well beaten to melt, stirring it often and whip it with a Wisk till the Ising-glass be
melted, then strain it and put it into your Vessel, stirring it well together, stop the Bung
slightly, for this will cause a new and small fermentation, when that is over stop it close,
leaving only a Vent-hole a little stopp'd, let it stand, and in ten Days or a little more,
it will be transparently fine, and you may drink of it out of the Vessel till two parts in
three be drawn, then Bottle the rest, which will in a little time come to drink very well.
If your Drink in September be well condition'd for taste, but not fine, and you desire to drink
it presently, rack it before you put your Ising-glass to it, and then it will fine the better
and drink the cleaner.

To make Drink fine quickly, I have been told that by separating the Liquor from the Feces,
when the Wort is let out of the Tun into the Underback, which may be done in this manner, when
you let your Wort into your Underback out of your Tun, catch the Wort in some Tub so long,
and so often as you find it run foul, put that so catched on the Malt again, and do so till
the Wort run clear into the Underback. This is to me a very good way (where it may be done)
for 'tis the Feces which causes the fierce and violent fermentation, and to hinder that in
some measure is the way to have fine Drink: Note that the finer you make your Wort, the sooner
your Drink will be fine, for I have heard that some Curious in Brewing have caused Flannels
to be so placed, that all the Wort may run thro' one or more of them into the Tun before working,
by which means the Drink was made very fine and well tasted.

 Observations on the foregoing Account.

This Excellent Philosophical Account of Brewing October Beer, has hitherto remained in private
Hands as a very great Secret, and was given to a Friend of mine by the Author himself, to whom
the World is much obliged, altho' it comes by me; In justice therefore to this ingenious Person,
I would here mention his Name, had I leave for so doing; but at present this Intimation must
suffice. However, I shall here take notice, that his Caution against using tailed or dusty
Malt, which is too commonly sold, is truly worthy of Observation; for these are so far from
producing more Ale or Beer, that they absorb and drink part of it up.

In Grinding Malts he notifies well to prevent a foul Drink.

The quantity he allows is something above thirteen Bushels to the Hogshead which is very sufficient;
but this as every body pleases.

The Choice of Liquors or Waters for Brewing, he says, is of considerable advantage; and so
must every body else that knows their Natures and loves Health, and pleasant Drink: For this
purpose, in my Opinion, the Air and Soil is to be regarded where the Brewing is performed;
since the Air affects all things it can come at, whether Animal, Vegetable or Mineral, as may
be proved from many Instances: In the Marshes of Kent and Essex, the Air there is generally
so infectious by means of those low vaesy boggy Grounds, that seldom a Person escapes an Ague
one time or other, whether Natives or Aliens, and is often fatally known to some of the Londoners
and others who merrily and nimbly travel down to the Isles of Grain and Sheppy for a valuable
Harvest, but in a Month's time they generally return thro' the Village of Soorne with another
Mien. There is also a little Moor in Hertfordshire, thro' which a Water runs that frequently
gives the Passant Horses that drink of it, the Colick or Gripes, by means of the aluminous
sharp Particles of its Earth; Its Air is also so bad, as has obliged several to remove from
its Situation for their Healths: The Dominion of the Air is likewise so powerful over Vegetables,
that what will grow in one Place won't in another, as is plain from the Beech and Black Cherry
Tree, that refuse the Vale of Ailesbury tho' on some Hills there, yet will thrive in the Chiltern
or Hilly Country: So the Limes and other Trees about London are all generally black-barked,
while those in the Country are most of them of a Silver white. Water is also so far under the
Influence of the Air and Soil, as makes many excellent for Brewing when others are as bad.
In Rivers, that run thro' boggy Places, the Sullage or Washings of such Soils are generally
unwholsome as the nature of such Ground is; and so the Water becomes infected by that and the
Effluvia or Vapour that accompanies such Water: So Ponds are surely good or bad, as they are
under too much Cover or supply'd by nasty Drains, or as they stand situated or exposed to good
and bad Airs. Thus the Well-waters by consequence share in the good or bad Effects of such
Soils that they run thorough, and the very Surface of the Earth by which such Waters are strained,
is surely endowed with the quality of the Air in which it lies; which brings me to my intended
purpose, to prove that Water drawn out of a Chalky, or Fire-stone Well, which is situated under
a dry sweet loamy Soil, in a fine pure Air, and that is perfectly soft, must excel most if
not all other Well-waters for the purpose in Brewing. The Worts also that are rooted in such
an Air, in course partakes of its nitrous Benefits, as being much exposed thereto in the high
Backs or Coolers that contain them. In my own Grounds I have Chalks under Clays and Loams;
but as the latter is better than the former, so the Water proves more soft and wholsome under
one than the other. Hence then may be observed the contrary Quality of those harsh curdling
Well-waters that many drink of in their Malt Liquors, without considering their ill Effects,
which are justly condemn'd by this able Author as unfit to be made use of in Brewing October Beer.

The boiling a few Hops in the first Water is good, but they must be strained thro' a Sieve
before the Water is put into the Malt; and to check its Heat with cold Liquor, or to let it
stand to cool some time, is a right Method, lest it scalds and locks up the Pores of the Malt,
which would then yield a thick Wort to the end of the Brewing and never be good Drink.

His putting Hops into the Underback, is an excellent Contrivance to prevent foxing, as I have
already hinted.

The quick boiling of the Wort is of no less Service, and that the smaller Wort should be boiled
longer than the strong is good Judgment, because the stronger the Wort, the sooner the Spirits
flie away and the waste of more Consequence; besides if the first Wort was to be boiled too
long, it would obtain so thick a Body, as to prevent in great measure its fining hereafter
after so soon in the Barrel; while the smaller sort will evaporate its more watry Parts, and
thereby be brought into a thicker Confidence, which is perfectly necessary in thin Worts; and
in this Article lies so much the Skill of the Brewer, that some will make a longer Length than
ordinary from the Goods for Small Beer, to shorten it afterwards in the Copper by Length of
boiling, and this way of consuming it is the more natural, because the remaining part will
be better Cured.

The laying Worts thin is a most necessary Precaution; for this is one way to prevent their
running into Cohesions and Foxing, the want of which Knowledge and Care has undoubtedly been
the occasion of great Losses in Brewing; for when Worts are tainted in any considerable degree,
they will be ropy in time and unfit for the human Body, as being unwholsome as well as unpleasant.
So likewise is his Item of great Importance, when he advises to draw the Worts off fine out
of the Backs or Coolers, and leave the Feces or Sediments behind, by reason, as he says, they
are the cause of those two detested Qualities in Malt Liquors, staleness and foulness, two
Properties that ought to imploy the greatest Care in Brewers to prevent; for 'tis certain these
Sediments are a Composition of the very worst part of the Malt, Hops and Yeast, and, while
they are in the Barrel, will so tincture and impregnate the Drink with their insanous and unpleasant
nature, that its Drinkers will be sure to participate thereof more or less as they have lain
together a longer or a shorter time. To have then a Malt Drink balsamick and mild, the Worts
cannot be run off too fine from the Coolers, nor well fermented too slow, that there may be
a Medium kept, in both the Salt and Sulphur that all fermented Malt Drinks abound with, and
herein, as he says, lies a great part of the Art of Brewing.

He says truly well, that a little Yeast at first should be put to the Wort, that it may quietly
work by degrees, and not be violently forc'd into a high Fermentation; for then by course the
Salt and Sulphur will be too violently agitated into such an Excess and Disagreement of Parts,
that will break their Unity into irregular Commotions, and cause the Drink to be soon stale
and harsh. But if it should be too backward and work too moderate, then whipping the Yeast
two or three times into it will be of some service to open the Body of the Beer, for as he
observes, if Drink has not a due fermentation, it will not be fine, clean, nor light.

His advice to draw the Drink out of the Tun by a Cock at such a distance from the bottom is
right; because that room will best keep the Feces from being disturb'd as the Drink is drawing
off, and leaving them behind; but for putting them afterwards over the Malt for Small Beer,
I don't hold it consonant with good Brewing, by reason in this Sediment there are many Particles
of the Yeast, that consequently will cause a small Fermentation in the Liquor and Malt, and
be a means to spoil rather than make good Small Beer.

What he says of filling up the Cask with a reserve of the same Drink, and not with that which
has once worked out, is past dispute just and right.

And so is what he says of stopping up the Vessel close after the Fermentation is over; but
that it is best to Brew all strong Beer in October, I must here take leave to dissent from
the Tenet, because there is room for several Objections in relation to the sort of Malt and
Cellar, which as I have before explained, shall say the less here.

As he observes Care should be taken in the Spring to unstop the Vent, lest the warm Weather
cause such a Fermentation as may burst the Cask, and also in September, that it be first try'd
by Pegging if the Drink is fine, well tasted and the Hop rotted; and then if his Way is liked
best, bring the rest into a transparent Fineness; for Clearness in Malt Liquors, as I said
before, and here repeat it again, is a most agreeable Quality that every Man ought to enjoy
for his Health and Pleasure, and therefore he advises for dispatch in this Affair, and to have
the Drink very fine, to rack it off before the Ising-glass is put in; but I can't be a Votary
for this Practice, as believing the Drink must lose a great deal of its Spirits by such shifting;
yet I must chime in with his Notion of putting the Wort so often over the Malt till it comes
off fine as I have already taught, which is a Method that has been used many Years in the North
of England, where they are so curious as to let the Wort lie some time in the Underback to
draw it off from the Feces there; nor are they less careful to run it fine out of the Cooler
into the Tun, and from that into the Cask; in all which three several Places the Wort and Drink
may be had clear and fine, and then there will be no more Sediments than is just necessary
to assist and seed the Beer, and preserving its Spirits in a due Temper. But if Persons have
Time and Conveniency, and their Inclination leads them to, obtain their Drink in the utmost
Fineness, it is an extraordinary good way to use Hippocrates Sleeve or Flannel Bag, which I
did in my great Brew-house at London for straining off the Feces that were left in the Backs.
As to the Quantity of Malt for Brewing a Hogshead of October Beer, I am of Opinion thirteen
Bushels are right, and so are ten, fifteen and twenty, according as People approve of; for
near Litchfield, I know some have brewed a Hogshead of October Beer from sixteen Bushels of
Barley Malt, one of Wheat, one of Beans, one of Pease and one of Oat Malt, besides hanging
a Bag of Flower taken out of the last four Malts in the Hogshead for the Drink to feed on,
nor can a certain Time Be limited and adjusted for the Tapping of any Drink (notwithstanding
what has been affirmed to the contrary) because some Hops will not be rotted so soon as others,
and some Drinks will not fine so soon as others; as is evident in the Pale Malt Drinks, that
will seldom or never break so soon in the Copper as the Brown sort, nor will they be so soon
ripe and fit to Tap as the high dryed Malt Drink will. Therefore what this Gentleman says of
trying Drink by first Pegging it before it is Tapp'd, in my Opinion is more just and right
than relying on a limited time for Broaching such Beer.

