The supplication ended, she seemed about to raise her hand to give the anticipated signal when
a look of amazement passed over her features; she brushed her hand over her eyes and looked
again, then folded her arms and gazed steadily seawards. What she saw might have shattered
even her nerves of iron. At the close of her prayer, which had exactly coincided with the moment
when Hilda stepped from her cell, the bosom of the sea heaved and rose: a wave, ten feet high,
glided, stole as it were, so gently did it move, into the forest; but so rapidly, that in one
minute every human being except herself and Jean was engulphed. They were gone, the high-couraged
and the craven, the frenzied priest and the laughing child, with their passions, their hopes,
and their fears, without the faintest note of warning of coming danger! Judith glanced at Jean,
almost contemptuously; he, not having seen what had happened, was still momentarily expecting
the application of the torch. A second wave crept in, smaller than the former, but overwhelming
the pyre. The dazed warrior on the Guet reported that after this second wave had passed he
saw the tall form still towering on the peak, but that when he looked again the rock, though
still above water, was tenantless; a little later the granite mass, together with the tops
of the tallest trees, lay under an unruffled surface.

When the pyre was submerged the litter, to which Jean was attached, floated off and formed
a tolerably secure raft. His life was safe for a time; but he would have been exposed to a
still more ghastly fate from the swooping sea-birds had he not been able by a supreme effort
to wrest one of his arms from its bands. In speechless wonderment he was carried seaward by
the slowly receding tide. Suddenly his raft was hailed by a well-known voice. Friendly hands
cut the ropes that bound him, and he was lifted into a boat. The occupant was Haco who, attracted
to the spot when hurrying to the Vale, by the cries of the clustering gulls, had thus again
saved his life.

The giant pulled vigorously to the point which, now known as the Hommet, terminates the northern
arm of Vazon Bay; there he landed the youth, to enable him to stretch his cramped limbs, and
to clothe him in such articles as he could spare from his own equipment. A rapid explanation
passed between them. Haco told him how the force investing Lihou had, when apparently waiting
for a signal to move, been overwhelmed by a wave which cut off the promontory from L'Erée,
and had perished to a man. Jean could tell of nothing but the sudden cessation of the tumult
and the floating of his litter. The minds of both were wandering, burningly anxious as they
were to know what had passed at the Vale. Scaling the Hommet, they obtained a sufficient view
to satisfy them that Lancresse Common no longer formed a portion of the mainland; an hour afterwards,
entering the Grand Havre, they saw an unbroken channel between that inlet and St. Sampson's:
every trace of the invading host had disappeared. Jean was soon in Hilda's arms; and the two
lovers, with Haco, spent the remainder of the day in pious thanksgiving to the Holy Mother
by whose special interposition, testified so miraculously to the maiden, the cause of Christ
had triumphed and the parted had been reunited, when the last gleam of safety seemed to have
been extinguished.

The next morning Father Austin arrived. Hilda was then made acquainted with her relationship
to Haco, whose tender attentions during her late troubles had already won her unreserved affection.
The news was an inexpressible joy to her, and it was touching to see how she nestled in the
deep embrace of her father, whose feelings, so long pent up, now at last found vent. Jean absented
himself during the day, but on the following morning insisted that his nuptials should no longer
be deferred. The same evening, in the little chapel of the nunnery, Austin bestowed his blessing
on a union which had been sanctified by such special manifestations of Divine approval.

The readjustment of the shattered organization of the island was imperative. The inhabitants
of the eastern side, and those of the Vale, had for the most part preserved their lives by
their absence from the forest; the Christian converts who had aided in the struggle were also
safe; with these exceptions the island was practically depopulated. Jean was elected chief
by acclamation. After giving such pressing directions as immediate exigencies required, he
acceded to his wife's ardent wish to obtain intelligence respecting Judith, and also to ascertain
the fate of Tita.

The Lihou monks had already reported that all communication was broken between the Hanois and
the shore, but that the tower appeared to be intact. On an April morning Haco and the young
couple sailed across Rocquaine Bay, and landed close to the tower, which now stood on a rugged
and inhospitable island. The door was opened by Tita, who smiled, and prattled, and caressed
her young mistress like a lap-dog. She recognised Jean with indifference, but a start, followed
by a shudder, seized her when she observed Haco; her terror, however, seemed to pass away when
he spoke a few soothing words to her. It was evident that a shock, or a succession of shocks,
had unsettled the poor woman's brain. On the name of Judith being mentioned, she pointed fearfully
to the upper story. Uncertain as to her meaning, Jean cautiously ascended the ladder, and ascertained
that the sorceress was in truth there. After a consultation it was decided that Haco and Hilda
should seek her presence.

As father and daughter entered the apartment, they saw the old woman half-seated, half-lying,
on a couch placed close to the window; her face, which was turned seaward, was haggard, the
leanness bringing into strong relief the handsome chiselling of her profile; the sternness
of her mouth was somewhat relaxed; there was an indication almost of softness in its corners.
Her high spirit had accepted, not resented, defeat.

As her eye fell on her two visitors there was no gleam of defiance, no mark of anger, or even
surprise; but, when Haco stood fully revealed before her, a flash of triumph and pleasure shot
into it, kindling every feature with its glow. "You here, Haco!" she cried, "and with her!
The Gods have relented. You will hold her fast in their worship, and lead her steps to the
land of her sires! I die contented." She fell back exhausted. "Sister," said the giant, laying
his hand softly on her shoulder, "it is too late; when Algar slew my loved one the Pagan died
in me; I am a servant of the God of the Christians." Hilda awaited fearfully the result of
this announcement, but she knew not the greatness of the old woman's soul. It was long ere
her voice was heard again. Presently, raising herself, she said, "I would it had been otherwise;
but I have erred, I have misjudged. I thought that your Gods were false; puny creations of
a nerveless brain; but they are strong, I own their power! It may be that the great ones of
old have wearied of our spiritless race, and abandoned us. So perchance you may be wise to
turn to the new-comers!" Her voice failed her, but as they knelt by her side her hands wandered
over their heads and lingered with a caressing movement among Hilda's locks. She seemed to
have forgotten Jean, whom she doubtless believed to have been lost in the general calamity.
Suddenly she started up and pointed to a storm-cloud rising rapidly from the western horizon,
assuming a succession of fantastic shapes as it passed upwards. "Do you not see them?" she
cried--"the great, the glorious ones! they bend from their seats; they smile! see their power!
Their majesty! their locks stream, their swords are half drawn! they sheathe them, they lean
forward, they extend their arms! they beckon!--I come, I come!" She stretched out her arms
with the old familiar gesture and sank back, having breathed her spirit to the tempest which
she loved so well.

They buried her on the cliffs of Pleinmont, where a cairn long marked her resting-place. Tita
was taken to the Vale; all attempts to restore her from the shock which her nerves had received
failed till on one sunny morning Hilda's infant was placed on her knees: when the child crowed,
and smiled at her, the cloud imperceptibly passed away, never to return. From that time she
assumed her regular place in the household.

Haco abandoned his Lihou cell; his rough readiness of resource, unfailing good-humour, and
skill in managing men, proved invaluable during the task of the restoration of the broken links
of government and society.

The labours of Father Austin and his coadjutors did not relax, but their course lay in smoother
waters: if their prospects of martyrdom were diminished they were more than consoled by the
knowledge that they possessed among them a veritable saint, to whom the Holy Virgin had vouchsafed
the honour of a personal appearance, and that they had been witnesses of a miraculous interposition,
the evidence of which would be indelible as long as the sea should wash the storm-beaten cliffs
of their beloved island.