This time I took the precaution of fitting them on in my room. I walked about in them, and
was happy. Next day I got to work again: gingerly I brought my chair into action, but I was
wholly unprepared for the extreme slipperiness of the ice, even though forewarned to some extent
by the painful experiences of Mr. Winkle. I had read that the skater "is very highly favoured
when contending with the great enemy of motion, viz., friction," a proposition which I found
to be perfectly true. My legs developed separatist tendencies, and started on independent orbits.
Often I found myself sitting down in a position affected by acrobats, but unusual in Society.
As for the chair, it would rear and plunge like a horse, or escape across the ice, where I
had to crawl to it on my knees. It was while thus engaged that I heard a sound of female voices,
and, lo! there were CECILIA and two other girls, who had heard of this pond in the wood, and
come to try it. I presented a singular spectacle, kneeling before a bed-room chair in the middle
of a lonely pond. They laughed, a lover should never be ridiculous, but how could I help it!
I thought it best to be frank, indeed, what excuse could I make, what explanation could I offer?
In the evening I told CECILIA that I had undergone all this for her sake; that, expert in other
pastimes (except dancing), I had hoped to make myself more worthy of "figuring" in her society.
But, as a matter of fact, I never got so far as figures.

Next day there was a thaw, and soon I had an opportunity of riding with CECILIA. It was "The
Last Ride Together," as in Mr. BROWNING. I don't like to speak about it. When we got off the
road on to the turf my horse began to kick and plunge. I have read that it is not right, but
I did what I always do, I held on by the pummel. Would you not hold on by the carpet, in an
earthquake. It felt like a young and lively earthquake. We came home soon, CECILIA leading
my horse. People staying in the house met us.

I did not propose to CECILIA. I thought, like Sir Andrew Aguecheek, "It is four to one she'll
none of me." Nay, the odds were probably even longer. Ah, CECILIA, if these lines meet thine
eyes, thou wilt know that one heart still is true. In another life, less begirt by material
difficulties, we may meet amongst the asphodel, where there is no opportunity for the display
of mere mechanical accomplishments. Till then, au revoir!

       *       *       *       *       *

APPROPRIATE.--At Nancy, the Maire pledged the Czech gymnasts, in a goblet of Pommery. Their
chief, returning thanks in French, with a strong Bohemian accent, remarked that he took this
as a great compliment to his own nationality, the champagne being "très Czech."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LADY GAY'S SELECTIONS.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--Of my two selections to supply the last Horse in the Derby--one--La Flêche,
so far forgot what was due to my prophetic utterances as to finish second--and indeed, very
nearly win! However, as such reprehensible conduct was mainly owing to the absurd wish of her
jockey, BARRETT, to be first, my readers will see that no blame attaches to me--as the mare
would doubtless not have hurried so much had she been left to her own devices--(the sex notoriously
dislikes hurry)--it being a well-known fact that she would make a race with a donkey!--though
why donkey races should be spoken of with such contempt. I don't know, for I once rode one
with Lord ARTHUR on Hampstead Heath--(it was during our engagement, when people will do foolish
things; we had been "slumming," and he was disguised in "pearlies," whilst I was gowned "à
la 'ARRIETT")--and I assure you our Donkeys went very fast. However--this is a digression--as
the man said when he walked over the cliff, so let us "noch einmal zu unser schafen," as the
German proverb runs. Although disappointed in the behaviour of La Flêche, my second string
Llanthony maintained my reputation for correct tips, by running last, as I said he would!--It
is true that some papers report him as having finished seventh and El Diablo last; but as he
did not win, he might just as well have been last as seventh--and as I am sure my friend Lord
ELTHAM will not mind the placings being reversed--I therefore place Llanthony last--and those
of my readers who took my advice and backed him, will have every reason to congratulate themselves
when they draw their money!

With regard to the winner, Sir Hugo, whose success was a general surprise to all except myself--(surprise
is bad form)--I can only follow the example of all other writers on turf matters in declaring
that, "he always had my good word, and was in fact my winter favourite, as anyone can see who
will take the trouble to glance through my earlier advices!"--these will be difficult to find,
as they were only conveyed in private letters which will not be published until my biography
is written later on!--(very much, I hope). Still, had I pursued the ordinary course of trying
to tip the Winner, Sir Hugo would undoubtedly have been my sole selection--a fact which should
not fail to weigh with my followers--and I have followers in plenty, as Lord ARTHUR knows!

Having done the whole of Epsom week, I shall be glad of a rest to get ready for Ascot--(four
new gowns to try on)--and besides there are some smart parties to attend next week, so Doncaster
will not be blessed with my sweet presence. However, I have a friend there on the Press who
can be trusted. So, in concluding this letter with my selection for the last horse in the Manchester
Cup, I am able to recommend it very strongly, as my friend will do the placing; and as I am
not there, no collusion can be suspected!

I must just mention that among the shows provided on Epsom Downs for the entertainment of the
multitude, was one which I should like to see done away with, namely, the so-called "glove
contests"--which to my mind are not calculated to advance "England's greatness" nor are they
pleasing to look on at. The "abolition of Slavin(g)" is undoubtedly a fine thing, but is hardly
perhaps an unmixed blessing when it makes heroes of Dusky Warriors!

I hear from my friend Major CLEMENT that we are going to have a most successful Ascot in spite
of the regrettable absence of Royalty; indeed he could have let all the Boxes twice over--and
as I shall be staying there all the week with my friends the Baron and Baroness LUTHER VON
MONTAG, I hope to collect some valuable information for my betting readers.

Yours devotedly, LADY GAY.

THE TIP.

  To ride the first horse in the Manchester Cup
    Is a thing for which jockeys might quarrel!
  But if modest young WOODBURN should have the "leg up,"
    He's content to be last on "Balmoral." SPEAKER in Chair; Mace on
Table; paper loaded with questions; House even moderately full. Mr.
G. not present, but SQUIRE OF MALWOOD makes up for that, and all
other deficiencies. Quite radiant in white waistcoat and summer
pants; wish he would crown the effect by wearing white hat; draws the
line at that. "People are apt to forget," he says, "that my father
was a dignitary of the Church. It is well sometimes to hint at the
circumstance, and it would be impossible to do it from under the
brim of a white hat." The item scarcely needed to complete joviality
of Squire's appearance and bearing; looks like the best man at a
wedding-party. "That's just what I am, TOBY," he said; "Mr. G. is
going to the country to wed the majority at the polls, and I'm the
best man."

