Mr. Pope is so kind gravely to inform us, “That Homer in This, as in many other Places, seems
to allude to the Laws of Athens, where Death was the Punishment of Adultery.” But how is this
significant Observation made out? Why, who can possibly object any Thing to the contrary?—Does
not PAUSANIAS relate that DRACO the Lawgiver to the ATHENIANS granted Impunity to any Person
that took Revenge upon an Adulterer? And was it not also the Institution of SOLON, that if
Any One took an Adulterer in the Fact, he might use him as he pleas’d? These Things are very
true: and to see what a good Memory, and sound Judgment in Conjunction can atchieve! Tho’ Homer’s
Date is not determin’d down to a single Year, yet ’tis pretty generally agreed that he liv’d
above 300 Years before Draco and Solon: And That, it seems, has made him seem to allude to
the very Laws which these Two Legislators propounded about 300 Years after. If this Inference
be not something like an Anachronism or Prolepsis, I’ll look once more into my Lexicons for
the true Meaning of the Words. It appears to me that somebody besides Mars and Venus has been
caught in a Net by this Episode: and I could call in other Instances to confirm what treacherous
Tackle this Net-work is, if not cautiously handled.

How just, notwithstanding, I have been in detecting the Anachronisms of my Author, and in defending
him for the Use of them, our late Editor seems to think, they should rather have slept in Obscurity:
and the having discovered them is sneer’d at, as a sort of wrong-headed Sagacity.

The numerous Corrections which I have made of the Poet’s Text in my Shakespeare Restor’d, and
which the Publick have been so kind to think well of, are, in the Appendix of Mr. Pope’s last
Edition, slightingly call’d Various Readings, Guesses, &c. He confesses to have inserted as
many of them as he judg’d of any the least Advantage to the Poet; but says, that the whole
amounted to about 25 Words: and pretends to have annexed a compleat List of the rest, which
were not worth his embracing. Whoever has read my Book, will at one Glance see, how in both
these Points Veracity is strain’d, so an Injury might but be done. Malus, etsi obesse non potest,
tamen cogitat.

Another Expedient, to make my Work appear of a trifling Nature, has been an Attempt to depreciate
Literal Criticism. To this end, and to pay a servile Compliment to Mr. Pope, an Anonymous Writer
has, like a Scotch Pedlar in Wit, unbraced his Pack on the Subject. But, that his Virulence
might not seem to be levelled singly at me, he has done me the Honour to join Dr. Bentley in
the Libel. I was in hopes, we should have been both abused with Smartness of Satire at least,
tho’ not with Solidity of Argument; that it might have been worth some Reply in Defence of
the Science attacked. But I may fairly say of this Author, as Falstaffe does of Poins;—Hang
him, Baboon! his Wit is as thick as TEWKSBURY Mustard; there is no more Conceit in him, than
is in a MALLET. If it be not Prophanation to set the Opinion of the divine Longinus against
such a Scribler, he tells us expressly, “That to make a Judgment upon Words (and Writings)
is the most consummate Fruit of much Experience.” ἡ γὰρ τῶν λόγων κρίσις πολλῆς ἔστι πείρας
τελευταῖον ἐπιγέννημα. Whenever Words are depraved, the Sense of course must be corrupted;
and thence the Reader’s betray’d into a false Meaning.

If the Latin and Greek Languages have receiv’d the greatest Advantages imaginable from the
Labours of the Editors and Criticks of the two last Ages; by whose Aid and Assistance the Grammarians
have been enabled to write infinitely better in that Art than even the preceding Grammarians,
who wrote when those Tongues flourish’d as living Languages: I should account it a peculiar
Happiness, that, by the faint Assay I have made in this Work, a Path might be chalk’d out,
for abler Hands, by which to derive the same Advantages to our own Tongue: a Tongue, which,
tho’ it wants none of the fundamental Qualities of an universal Language, yet, as a noble Writer
says, lisps and stammers as in its Cradle; and has produced little more towards its polishing
than Complaints of its Barbarity.

Having now run thro’ all those Points which I intended should make any Part of this Dissertation,
and having in my former Edition made publick Acknowledgments of the Assistances lent me, I
shall conclude with a brief Account of the Methods taken in This.

It was thought proper, in order to reduce the Bulk and Price of the Impression, that the Notes,
where-ever they would admit of it, might be abridg’d: for which Reason I have curtail’d a great
Quantity of Such, in which Explanations were too prolix, or Authorities in Support of an Emendation
too numerous: and Many I have entirely expung’d, which were judg’d rather Verbose and Declamatory
(and, so, Notes merely of Ostentation), than necessary or instructive.

The few literal Errors which had escap’d Notice, for want of Revisals, in the former Edition,
are here reform’d: and the Pointing of innumerable Passages is regulated, with all the Accuracy
I am capable of.

I shall decline making any farther Declaration of the Pains I have taken upon my Author, because
it was my Duty, as his Editor, to publish him with my best Care and Judgment: and because I
am sensible, all such Declarations are construed to be laying a sort of a Debt on the Publick.
As the former Edition has been received with much Indulgence, I ought to make my Acknowledgments
to the Town for their favourable Opinion of it: and I shall always be proud to think That Encouragement
the best Payment I can hope to receive from my poor Studies.

SIR THOMAS HANMER: PREFACE TO EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE. 1744.

What the Publick is here to expect is a true and correct Edition of Shakespear’s works cleared
from the corruptions with which they have hitherto abounded. One of the great Admirers of this
incomparable Author hath made it the amusement of his leisure hours for many years past to
look over his writings with a careful eye, to note the obscurities and absurdities introduced
into the text, and according to the best of his judgment to restore the genuine sense and purity
of it. In this he proposed nothing to himself but his private satisfaction in making his own
copy as perfect as he could: but as the emendations multiplied upon his hands, other Gentlemen
equally fond of the Author desired to see them, and some were so kind as to give their assistance
by communicating their observations and conjectures upon difficult passages which had occurred
to them. Thus by degrees the work growing more considerable than was at first expected, they
who had the opportunity of looking into it, too partial perhaps in their judgment, thought
it worth being made publick; and he, who hath with difficulty yielded to their perswasions,
is far from desiring to reflect upon the late Editors for the omissions and defects which they
left to be supplied by others who should follow them in the same province. On the contrary,
he thinks the world much obliged to them for the progress they made in weeding out so great
a number of blunders and mistakes as they have done, and probably he who hath carried on the
work might never have thought of such an undertaking if he had not found a considerable part
so done to his hands.

From what causes it proceeded that the works of this Author in the first publication of them
were more injured and abused than perhaps any that ever pass’d the Press, hath been sufficiently
explained in the Preface to Mr. Pope’s Edition which is here subjoined, and there needs no
more to be said upon that subject. This only the Reader is desired to bear in mind, that as
the corruptions are more numerous and of a grosser kind than can well be conceived but by those
who have looked nearly into them; so in the correcting them this rule hath been most strictly
observed, not to give a loose to fancy, or indulge a licentious spirit of criticism, as if
it were fit for any one to presume to judge what Shakespear ought to have written, instead
of endeavouring to discover truly and retrieve what he did write: and so great caution hath
been used in this respect, that no alterations have been made but what the sense necessarily
required, what the measure of the verse often helped to point out, and what the similitude
of words in the false reading and in the true, generally speaking, appeared very well to justify.

Most of those passages are here thrown to the bottom of the page and rejected as spurious,
which were stigmatized as such in Mr. Pope’s Edition; and it were to be wished that more had
then undergone the same sentence. The promoter of the present Edition hath ventured to discard
but few more upon his own judgment, the most considerable of which is that wretched piece of
ribaldry in King Henry V. put into the mouths of the French Princess and an old Gentlewoman,
improper enough as it is all in French and not intelligible to an English audience, and yet
that perhaps is the best thing that can be said of it. There can be no doubt but a great deal
more of that low stuff which disgraces the works of this great Author, was foisted in by the
Players after his death, to please the vulgar audiences by which they subsisted: and though
some of the poor witticisms and conceits must be supposed to have fallen from his pen, yet
as he hath put them generally into the mouths of low and ignorant people, so it is to be remember’d
that he wrote for the Stage, rude and unpolished as it then was; and the vicious taste of the
age must stand condemned for them, since he hath left upon record a signal proof how much he
despised them. In his Play of The Merchant of Venice a Clown is introduced quibbling in a miserable
manner, upon which one who bears the character of a man of sense makes the following reflection:
How every fool can play upon a word! I think the best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence,
and discourse grow commendable in none but parrots. He could hardly have found stronger words
to express his indignation at those false pretences to wit then in vogue; and therefore though
such trash is frequently interspersed in his writings, it would be unjust to cast it as an
imputation upon his taste and judgment and character as a Writer.

There being many words in Shakespear which are grown out of use and obsolete, and many borrowed
from other languages which are not enough naturalized or known among us, a Glossary is added
at the end of the work, for the explanation of all those terms which have hitherto been so
many stumbling-blocks to the generality of Readers; and where there is any obscurity in the
text not arising from the words but from a reference to some antiquated customs now forgotten,
or other causes of that kind, a note is put at the bottom of the page to clear up the difficulty.

With these several helps if that rich vein of sense which runs through the works of this Author
can be retrieved in every part and brought to appear in its true light, and if it may be hoped
without presumption that this is here effected; they who love and admire him will receive a
new pleasure, and all probably will be more ready to join in doing him justice, who does great
honour to his country as a rare and perhaps a singular Genius: one who hath attained an high
degree of perfection in those two great branches of Poetry, Tragedy and Comedy, different as
they are in their natures from each other; and who may be said without partiality to have equalled,
if not excelled, in both kinds, the best writers of any age or country who have thought it
glory enough to distinguish themselves in either.

Since therefore other nations have taken care to dignify the works of their most celebrated
Poets with the fairest impressions beautified with the ornaments of sculpture, well may our
Shakespear be thought to deserve no less consideration: and as a fresh acknowledgment hath
lately been paid to his merit, and a high regard to his name and memory, by erecting his Statue
at a publick expence; so it is desired that this new Edition of his works, which hath cost
some attention and care, may be looked upon as another small monument designed and dedicated
to his honour.

WILLIAM WARBURTON: PREFACE TO EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE. 1747.

It hath been no unusual thing for Writers, when dissatisfied with the Patronage or Judgment
of their own Times, to appeal to Posterity for a fair Hearing. Some have even thought fit to
apply to it in the first Instance; and to decline Acquaintance with the Public till Envy and
Prejudice had quite subsided. But, of all the Trusters to Futurity, commend me to the Author
of the following Poems, who not only left it to Time to do him Justice as it would, but to
find him out as it could. For, what between too great Attention to his Profit as a Player,
and too little to his Reputation as a Poet, his Works, left to the Care of Door-keepers and
Prompters, hardly escaped the common Fate of those Writings, how good soever, which are abandon’d
to their own Fortune, and unprotected by Party or Cabal. At length, indeed, they struggled
into Light; but so disguised and travested, that no classic Author, after having run ten secular
Stages thro’ the blind Cloisters of Monks and Canons, ever came out in half so maimed and mangled
a Condition. But for a full Account of his Disorders, I refer the Reader to the excellent Discourse
which follows, and turn myself to consider the Remedies that have been applied to them.

Shakespear’s Works, when they escaped the Players, did not fall into much better Hands when
they came amongst Printers and Booksellers: who, to say the Truth, had, at first, but small
Encouragement for putting him into a better Condition. The stubborn Nonsense, with which he
was incrusted, occasioned his lying long neglected amongst the common Lumber of the Stage.
And when that resistless Splendor, which now shoots all around him, had, by degrees, broke
thro’ the Shell of those Impurities, his dazzled Admirers became as suddenly insensible to
the extraneous Scurf that still stuck upon him, as they had been before to the native Beauties
that lay under it. So that, as then he was thought not to deserve a Cure, he was now supposed
not to need any.

His growing Eminence, however, required that he should be used with Ceremony: And he soon had
his Appointment of an Editor in form. But the Bookseller, whose dealing was with Wits, having
learnt of them, I know not what silly Maxim, that none but a Poet should presume to meddle
with a Poet, engaged the ingenious Mr. Rowe to undertake this Employment. A Wit indeed he was;
but so utterly unacquainted with the whole Business of Criticism, that he did not even collate
or consult the first Editions of the Work he undertook to publish; but contented himself with
giving us a meagre Account of the Author’s Life, interlarded with some common-place Scraps
from his Writings. The Truth is, Shakespear’s Condition was yet but ill understood. The Nonsense,
now, by consent, received for his own, was held in a kind of Reverence for its Age and Author:
and thus it continued, till another great Poet broke the Charm; by shewing us, that the higher
we went, the less of it was still to be found.

For the Proprietors, not discouraged by their first unsuccessful Effort, in due time made a
second; and, tho’ they still stuck to their Poets, with infinitely more Success in their Choice
of Mr. POPE. Who, by the mere force of an uncommon Genius, without any particular Study or
Profession of this Art, discharged the great Parts of it so well as to make his Edition the
best Foundation for all further Improvements. He separated the genuine from the spurious Plays:
And, with equal Judgment, tho’ not always with the same Success, attempted to clear the genuine
Plays from the interpolated Scenes: He then consulted the old Editions; and, by a careful Collation
of them, rectified the faulty, and supplied the imperfect Reading, in a great number of places:
And lastly, in an admirable Preface, hath drawn a general, but very lively, Sketch of Shakespear’s
poetic Character; and, in the corrected Text, marked out those peculiar Strokes of Genius which
were most proper to support and illustrate that Character. Thus far Mr. POPE. And altho’ much
more was to be done before Shakespear could be restored to himself (such as amending the corrupted
Text where the printed Books afford no Assistance; explaining his licentious Phraseology and
obscure Allusions; and illustrating the Beauties of his Poetry); yet, with great Modesty and
Prudence, our illustrious Editor left this to the Critic by Profession.

But nothing will give the common Reader a better idea of the Value of Mr. Pope’s Edition, than
the two Attempts which have been since made, by Mr. Theobald and Sir Thomas Hanmer, in Opposition
to it. Who, altho’ they concerned themselves only in the first of these three Parts of Criticism,
the restoring the Text (without any Conception of the second, or venturing even to touch upon
the third), yet succeeded so very ill in it, that they left their Author in ten times a worse
Condition than they found him. But, as it was my ill Fortune to have some accidental Connexions
with these two Gentlemen, it will be incumbent on me to be a little more particular concerning
them.

The One was recommended to me as a poor Man; the Other as a poor Critic: and to each of them,
at different times, I communicated a great number of Observations, which they managed, as they
saw fit, to the Relief of their several Distresses. As to Mr. Theobald, who wanted Money, I
allowed him to print what I gave him for his own Advantage: and he allowed himself in the Liberty
of taking one Part for his own, and sequestering another for the Benefit, as I supposed, of
some future Edition. But, as to the Oxford Editor, who wanted nothing but what he might very
well be without, the Reputation of a Critic, I could not so easily forgive him for trafficking
with my Papers without my Knowledge; and, when that Project fail’d, for employing a number
of my Conjectures in his Edition against my express Desire not to have that Honour done unto me.

Mr. Theobald was naturally turned to Industry and Labour. What he read he could transcribe:
but, as what he thought, if ever he did think, he could but ill express, so he read on; and
by that means got a Character of Learning, without risquing, to every Observer, the Imputation
of wanting a better Talent. By a punctilious Collation of the old Books, he corrected what
was manifestly wrong in the latter Editions, by what was manifestly right in the earlier. And
this is his real merit; and the whole of it. For where the Phrase was very obsolete or licentious
in the common Books, or only slightly corrupted in the other, he wanted sufficient Knowledge
of the Progress and various Stages of the English Tongue, as well as Acquaintance with the
Peculiarity of Shakespear’s Language, to understand what was right; nor had he either common
Judgment to see, or critical Sagacity to amend, what was manifestly faulty. Hence he generally
exerts his conjectural Talent in the wrong Place: He tampers with what is found in the common
Books; and, in the old ones, omits all Notice of Variations the Sense of which he did not understand.

How the Oxford Editor came to think himself qualified for this Office, from which his whole
Course of Life had been so remote, is still more difficult to conceive. For whatever Parts
he might have either of Genius or Erudition, he was absolutely ignorant of the Art of Criticism,
as well as the Poetry of that Time, and the Language of his Author: And so far from a Thought
of examining the first Editions, that he even neglected to compare Mr. Pope’s, from which he
printed his own, with Mr. Theobald’s; whereby he lost the Advantage of many fine Lines which
the other had recovered from the old Quartos. Where he trusts to his own Sagacity, in what
affects the Sense, his Conjectures are generally absurd and extravagant, and violating every
Rule of Criticism. Tho’, in this Rage of Correcting, he was not absolutely destitute of all
Art. For, having a Number of my Conjectures before him, he took as many of them as he saw fit,
to work upon; and by changing them to something, he thought, synonymous or similar, he made
them his own; and so became a Critic at a cheap Expence. But how well he hath succeeded in
this, as likewise in his Conjectures which are properly his own, will be seen in the course
of my Remarks: Tho’, as he hath declined to give the Reasons for his Interpolations, he hath
not afforded me so fair a hold of him as Mr. Theobald hath done, who was less cautious. But
his principal Object was to reform his Author’s Numbers; and this, which he hath done, on every
Occasion, by the Insertion or Omission of a set of harmless unconcerning Expletives, makes
up the gross Body of his innocent Corrections. And so, in spite of that extreme Negligence
in Numbers which distinguishes the first Dramatic Writers, he hath tricked up the old Bard,
from Head to Foot, in all the finical Exactness of a modern Measurer of Syllables.

For the rest, all the Corrections which these two Editors have made on any reasonable Foundation,
are here admitted into the Text, and carefully assigned to their respective Authors: A piece
of Justice which the Oxford Editor never did; and which the Other was not always scrupulous
in observing towards me. To conclude with them in a word, They separately possessed those two
Qualities which, more than any other, have contributed to bring the Art of Criticism into disrepute,
Dulness of Apprehension, and Extravagance of Conjecture.

I am now to give some Account of the present Undertaking.

The whole a Critic can do for an Author who deserves his Service, is to correct the faulty
Text; to remark the Peculiarities of Language; to illustrate the obscure Allusions; and to
explain the Beauties and Defects of Sentiment or Composition. And surely, if ever Author had
a Claim to this Service, it was our Shakespear: Who, widely excelling in the Knowledge of Human
Nature, hath given to his infinitely varied Pictures of it, such Truth of Design, such Force
of Drawing, such Beauty of Colouring, as was hardly ever equalled by any Writer, whether his
Aim was the Use, or only the Entertainment of Mankind. The Notes in this Edition, therefore,
take in the whole Compass of Criticism.

I. The first sort is employed in restoring the Poet’s genuine Text; but in those Places only
where it labours with inextricable Nonsense. In which, how much soever I may have given Scope
to critical Conjecture, where the old Copies failed me, I have indulged nothing to Fancy or
Imagination; but have religiously observed the severe Canons of literal Criticism; as may be
seen from the Reasons accompanying every Alteration of the common Text. Nor would a different
Conduct have become a Critic whose greatest Attention, in this part, was to vindicate the established
Reading from Interpolations occasioned by the fanciful Extravagancies of others. I once intended
to have given the Reader a body of Canons, for literal Criticism, drawn out in form; as well
such as concern the Art in general, as those that arise from the Nature and Circumstances of
our Author’s Works in particular. And this for two Reasons. First, To give the unlearned Reader
a just Idea, and consequently a better Opinion of the Art of Criticism, now sunk very low in
the popular Esteem, by the Attempts of some who would needs exercise it without either natural
or acquired Talents; and by the ill Success of others, who seemed to have lost both, when they
came to try them upon English Authors. Secondly, To deter the unlearned Writer from wantonly
trifling with an Art he is a Stranger to, at the Expence of his own Reputation, and the Integrity
of the Text of established Authors. But these Uses may be well supplied by what is occasionally
said upon the Subject, in the Course of the following Remarks.

II. The second sort of Notes consists in an Explanation of the Author’s Meaning, when, by one
or more of these Causes, it becomes obscure; either from a licentious Use of Terms; or a hard
or ungrammatical Construction; or lastly, from far-fetch’d or quaint Allusions.

1. This licentious Use of Words is almost peculiar to the Language of Shakespear. To common
Terms he hath affixed Meanings of his own, unauthorised by Use, and not to be justified by
Analogy. And this Liberty he hath taken with the noblest Parts of Speech, such as Mixed-modes;
which, as they are most susceptible of Abuse, so their Abuse most hurts the Clearness of the
Discourse. The Critics (to whom Shakespear’s Licence was still as much a Secret as his Meaning,
which that Licence had obscured) fell into two contrary Mistakes; but equally injurious to
his Reputation and his Writings. For some of them, observing a Darkness that pervaded his whole
Expression, have censured him for Confusion of Ideas and Inaccuracy of reasoning. In the Neighing
of a Horse (SAYS Rymer), or in the Growling of a Mastiff, there is a Meaning, there is a lively
Expression, and, may I say, more Humanity than many times in the tragical Flights of SHAKESPEAR.
The Ignorance of which Censure is of a Piece with its Brutality. The Truth is, no one thought
clearer, or argued more closely than this immortal Bard. But his Superiority of Genius less
needing the Intervention of Words in the Act of Thinking, when he came to draw out his Contemplations
into Discourse, he took up (as he was hurried on by the Torrent of his Matter) with the first
Words that lay in his Way; and if, amongst these, there were two Mixed-modes that had but a
principal Idea in common, it was enough for him; he regarded them as synonymous, and would
use the one for the other without Fear or Scruple.—Again, there have been others, such as the
two last Editors, who have fallen into a contrary Extreme, and regarded Shakespear’s Anomalies
(as we may call them) amongst the Corruptions of his Text; which, therefore, they have cashiered
in great Numbers, to make room for a Jargon of their own. This hath put me to additional Trouble;
for I had not only their Interpolations to throw out again, but the genuine Text to replace,
and establish in its stead; which, in many Cases, could not be done without shewing the peculiar
Sense of the Terms, and explaining the Causes which led the Poet to so perverse a use of them.
I had it once, indeed, in my Design, to give a general alphabetic Glossary of these Terms;
but as each of them is explained in its proper Place, there seemed the less Occasion for such
an Index.

2. The Poet’s hard and unnatural Construction had a different Original. This was the Effect
of mistaken Art and Design. The Public Taste was in its Infancy; and delighted (as it always
does during that State) in the high and turgid; which leads the Writer to disguise a vulgar
expression with hard and forced construction, whereby the Sentence frequently becomes cloudy
and dark. Here, his Critics shew their modesty, and leave him to himself. For the arbitrary
change of a Word doth little towards dispelling an obscurity that ariseth, not from the licentious
use of a single Term, but from the unnatural arrangement of a whole Sentence. And they risqued
nothing by their silence. For Shakespear was too clear in Fame to be suspected of a want of
Meaning; and too high in Fashion for any one to own he needed a Critic to find it out. Not
but, in his best works, we must allow, he is often so natural and flowing, so pure and correct,
that he is even a model for stile and language.

3. As to his far-fetched and quaint Allusions, these are often a cover to common thoughts;
just as his hard construction is to common expression. When they are not so, the Explanation
of them has this further advantage, that, in clearing the Obscurity, you frequently discover
some latent conceit not unworthy of his Genius.

III. The third and last sort of Notes is concerned in a critical explanation of the Author’s
Beauties and Defects; but chiefly of his Beauties, whether in Stile, Thought, Sentiment, Character,
or Composition. An odd humour of finding fault hath long prevailed amongst the Critics; as
if nothing were worth remarking that did not, at the same time, deserve to be reproved. Whereas
the public Judgment hath less need to be assisted in what it shall reject, than in what it
ought to prize; Men being generally more ready at spying Faults than in discovering Beauties.
Nor is the value they set upon a Work, a certain proof that they understand it. For ’tis ever
seen, that half a dozen Voices of credit give the lead: And if the Publick chance to be in
good humour, or the Author much in their favour, the People are sure to follow. Hence it is
that the true Critic hath so frequently attached himself to Works of established reputation;
not to teach the World to admire, which, in those circumstances, to say the truth, they are
apt enough to do of themselves; but to teach them how with reason to admire: No easy matter,
I will assure you, on the subject in question: For tho’ it be very true, as Mr. Pope hath observed,
that Shakespear is the fairest and fullest subject for criticism, yet it is not such a sort
of criticism as may be raised mechanically on the Rules which Dacier, Rapin, and Bossu have
collected from Antiquity; and of which such kind of Writers as Rymer, Gildon, Dennis, and Oldmixon,
have only gathered and chewed the Husks: nor on the other hand is it to be formed on the plan
of those crude and superficial Judgments, on books and things, with which a certain celebrated
Paper so much abounds; too good indeed to be named with the Writers last mentioned, but being
unluckily mistaken for a Model, because it was an Original, it hath given rise to a deluge
of the worst sort of critical Jargon; I mean that which looks most like sense. But the kind
of criticism here required is such as judgeth our Author by those only Laws and Principles
on which he wrote, NATURE, and COMMON-SENSE.

Our Observations, therefore, being thus extensive, will, I presume, enable the Reader to form
a right judgment of this favourite Poet, without drawing out his Character, as was once intended,
in a continued discourse.

These, such as they are, were amongst my younger amusements, when, many years ago, I used to
turn over these sort of Writers to unbend myself from more serious applications: And what,
certainly, the Public, at this time of day, had never been troubled with, but for the conduct
of the two last Editors, and the persuasions of dear Mr. POPE; whose memory and name,

    ——semper acerbum,
    Semper honoratum (sic Di voluistis) habebo.

He was desirous I should give a new Edition of this Poet, as he thought it might contribute
to put a stop to a prevailing folly of altering the Text of celebrated Authors without Talents
or Judgment. And he was willing that his Edition should be melted down into mine, as it would,
he said, afford him (so great is the modesty of an ingenuous temper) a fit opportunity of confessing
his Mistakes.(40) In memory of our Friendship, I have, therefore, made it our joint Edition.
His admirable Preface is here added; all his Notes are given, with his name annexed; the Scenes
are divided according to his regulation; and the most beautiful passages distinguished, as
in his book, with inverted commas. In imitation of him, I have done the same by as many others
as I thought most deserving of the Reader’s attention, and have marked them with double commas.

If, from all this, Shakespear or good Letters have received any advantage, and the Public any
benefit or entertainment, the thanks are due to the Proprietors, who have been at the expence
of procuring this Edition. And I should be unjust to several deserving Men of a reputable and
useful Profession, if I did not, on this occasion, acknowledge the fair dealing I have always
found amongst them; and profess my sense of the unjust Prejudice which lies against them; whereby
they have been, hitherto, unable to procure that security for their Property, which they see
the rest of their Fellow-Citizens enjoy: A prejudice in part arising from the frequent Piracies
(as they are called) committed by Members of their own Body. But such kind of Members no Body
is without. And it would be hard that this should be turned to the discredit of the honest
part of the Profession, who suffer more from such Injuries than any other men. It hath, in
part too, arisen from the clamours of profligate Scriblers, ever ready, for a piece of Money,
to prostitute their bad sense for or against any Cause prophane or sacred; or in any Scandal
public or private: These meeting with little encouragement from Men of account in the Trade
(who even in this enlightened Age are not the very worst Judges or Rewarders of merit), apply
themselves to People of Condition; and support their importunities by false complaints against
Booksellers.

But I should now, perhaps, rather think of my own Apology, than busy myself in the defence
of others. I shall have some Tartuffe ready, on the first appearance of this Edition, to call
out again, and tell me, that I suffer myself to be wholly diverted from my purpose by these
matters less suitable to my clerical Profession. “Well, but,” says a friend, “why not take
so candid an intimation in good part? Withdraw yourself, again, as you are bid, into the clerical
Pale; examine the Records of sacred and profane Antiquity; and, on them, erect a Work to the
confusion of Infidelity.” Why, I have done all this, and more: And hear now what the same Men
have said to it. They tell me, I have wrote to the wrong and injury of Religion, and furnished
out more handles for Unbelievers. “Oh now the secret’s out; and you may have your pardon, I
find, upon easier terms. ’Tis only, to write no more.”—Good Gentlemen! and shall I not oblige
them? They would gladly obstruct my way to those things which every Man, who endeavours well
in his Profession, must needs think he has some claim to, when he sees them given to those
who never did endeavour; at the same time that they would deter me from taking those advantages
which Letters enable me to procure for myself. If then I am to write no more (tho’ as much
out of my Profession as they may please to represent this Work, I suspect their modesty would
not insist on a scrutiny of our several applications of this profane profit and their purer
gains); if, I say, I am to write no more, let me at least give the Public, who have a better
pretence to demand it of me, some reason for my presenting them with these amusements. Which,
if I am not much mistaken, may be excused by the best and fairest Examples; and, what is more,
may be justified on the surer reason of things.

The great Saint CHRYSOSTOM, a name consecrated to immortality by his Virtue and Eloquence,
is known to have been so fond of Aristophanes as to wake with him at his studies, and to sleep
with him under his pillow: and I never heard that this was objected either to his Piety or
his Preaching, not even in those times of pure Zeal and primitive Religion. Yet, in respect
of Shakespear’s great sense, Aristophanes’s best wit is but buffoonry; and, in comparison of
Aristophanes’s Freedoms, Shakespear writes with the purity of a Vestal. But they will say,
St. Chrysostom contracted a fondness for the comic Poet for the sake of his Greek. To this,
indeed, I have nothing to reply. Far be it from me to insinuate so unscholarlike a thing, as
if We had the same Use for good English that a Greek had for his Attic elegance. Critic Kuster,
in a taste and language peculiar to Grammarians of a certain order, hath decreed, that the
History and Chronology of GREEK Words is the most SOLID entertainment of a Man of Letters.

I fly, then, to a higher Example, much nearer home, and still more in point, The famous University
of OXFORD. This illustrious Body, which hath long so justly held, and, with such equity, dispensed,
the chief honours of the learned World, thought good Letters so much interested in correct
Editions of the best English Writers, that they, very lately, in their publick Capacity, undertook
one, of this very Author, by subscription. And if the Editor hath not discharged his Task with
suitable abilities for one so much honoured by them, this was not their fault but his, who
thrust himself into the employment. After such an Example, it would be weakening any defence
to seek further for Authorities. All that can be now decently urged is the reason of the thing;
and this I shall do, more for the sake of that truly venerable Body than my own.

Of all the literary exercitations of speculative Men, whether designed for the use or entertainment
of the World, there are none of so much importance, or what are more our immediate concern,
than those which let us into the knowledge of our Nature. Others may exercise the Reason, or
amuse the Imagination; but these only can improve the Heart, and form the human Mind to Wisdom.
Now, in this Science, our Shakespear is confessed to occupy the foremost place; whether we
consider the amazing sagacity with which he investigates every hidden spring and wheel of human
Action; or his happy manner of communicating this knowledge, in the just and living paintings
which he has given us of all our Passions, Appetites, and Pursuits. These afford a lesson which
can never be too often repeated, or too constantly inculcated; And, to engage the Reader’s
due attention to it, hath been one of the principal objects of this Edition.

As this Science (whatever profound Philosophers may think) is, to the rest, in Things; so,
in Words (whatever supercilious Pedants may talk), every one’s mother tongue is to all other
Languages. This hath still been the Sentiment of Nature and true Wisdom. Hence, the greatest
men of Antiquity never thought themselves better employed than in cultivating their own country
idiom. So Lycurgus did honour to Sparta, in giving the first compleat Edition of Homer; and
Cicero, to Rome, in correcting the Works of Lucretius. Nor do we want Examples of the same
good sense in modern Times, even amidst the cruel inrodes that Art and Fashion have made upon
Nature and the simplicity of Wisdom. Ménage, the greatest name in France for all kind of philologic
Learning, prided himself in writing critical Notes on their best lyric Poet, Malherbe: And
our greater Selden, when he thought it might reflect credit on his Country, did not disdain
even to comment a very ordinary Poet, one Michael Drayton. But the English tongue, at this
Juncture, deserves and demands our particular regard. It hath, by means of the many excellent
Works of different kinds composed in it, engaged the notice, and become the study, of almost
every curious and learned Foreigner, so as to be thought even a part of literary accomplishment.
This must needs make it deserving of a critical attention: And its being yet destitute of a
Test or Standard to apply to, in cases of doubt or difficulty, shews how much it wants that
attention. For we have neither GRAMMAR nor DICTIONARY, neither Chart nor Compass, to guide
us through this wide sea of Words. And indeed how should we? since both are to be composed
and finished on the Authority of our best established Writers. But their Authority can be of
little use till the Text hath been correctly settled, and the Phraseology critically examined.
As, then, by these aids, a Grammar and Dictionary, planned upon the best rules of Logic and
Philosophy (and none but such will deserve the name), are to be procured; the forwarding of
this will be a general concern: For, as Quintilian observes, “Verborum proprietas ac differentia
omnibus, qui sermonem curæ habent, debet esse communis.” By this way, the Italians have brought
their tongue to a degree of Purity and Stability which no living Language ever attained unto
before. It is with pleasure I observe, that these things now begin to be understood amongst
ourselves; and that I can acquaint the Public, we may soon expect very elegant Editions of
Fletcher and Milton’s Paradise Lost from Gentlemen of distinguished Abilities and Learning.
But this interval of good sense, as it may be short, is indeed but new. For I remember to have
heard of a very learned Man, who, not long since, formed a design of giving a more correct
Edition of Spenser; and, without doubt, would have performed it well; but he was dissuaded
from his purpose by his Friends, as beneath the dignity of a Professor of the occult Sciences.
Yet these very Friends, I suppose, would have thought it had added lustre to his high Station,
to have new-furbished out some dull northern Chronicle, or dark Sibylline Ænigma. But let it
not be thought that what is here said insinuates any thing to the discredit of Greek and Latin
criticism. If the follies of particular Men were sufficient to bring any branch of Learning
into disrepute, I don’t know any that would stand in a worse situation than that for which
I now apologize. For I hardly think there ever appeared, in any learned Language, so execrable
a heap of nonsense, under the name of Commentaries, as hath been lately given us on a certain
satyric Poet, of the last Age, by his Editor and Coadjutor.

I am sensible how unjustly the very best classical Critics have been treated. It is said that
our great Philosopher spoke with much contempt of the two finest Scholars of this Age, Dr.
Bentley and Bishop Hare, for squabbling, as he expressed it, about an old Play-book; meaning,
I suppose, Terence’s Comedies. But this Story is unworthy of him; tho’ well enough suiting
the fanatic turn of the wild Writer that relates it; such censures are amongst the follies
of men immoderately given over to one Science, and ignorantly undervaluing all the rest. Those
learned Critics might, and perhaps did, laugh in their turn (tho’ still, sure, with the same
indecency and indiscretion) at that incomparable Man, for wearing out a long Life in poring
through a Telescope. Indeed, the weaknesses of Such are to be mentioned with reverence. But
who can bear, without indignation, the fashionable cant of every trifling Writer, whose insipidity
passes, with himself, for politeness, for pretending to be shocked, forsooth, with the rude
and savage air of vulgar Critics; meaning such as Muretus, Scaliger, Casaubon, Salmasius, Spanheim,
Bentley. When, had it not been for the deathless labours of such as these, the western World,
at the revival of Letters, had soon fallen back again into a state of ignorance and barbarity
as deplorable as that from which Providence had just redeemed it.

To conclude with an observation of a fine Writer and great Philosopher of our own; which I
would gladly bind, tho’ with all honour, as a Phylactery, on the Brow of every awful Grammarian,
to teach him at once the Use and Limits of his art: WORDS ARE THE MONEY OF FOOLS, AND THE COUNTERS
OF WISE MEN.

SAMUEL JOHNSON: PREFACE TO EDITION OF SHAKESPEARE. 1765. There must, however, have been always
some modes of gaiety preferable to others, and a writer ought to chuse the best.

Preface to the Second Edition, 1767.

THE AUTHOR of the following ESSAY was solicitous only for the honour of Shakespeare: he hath
however, in his own capacity, little reason to complain of occasional Criticks, or Criticks
by profession. The very Few, who have been pleased to controvert any part of his Doctrine,
have favoured him with better manners than arguments; and claim his thanks for a further opportunity
of demonstrating the futility of Theoretick reasoning against Matter of Fact. It is indeed
strange that any real Friends of our immortal POET should be still willing to force him into
a situation which is not tenable: treat him as a learned Man, and what shall excuse the most
gross violations of History, Chronology, and Geography?

Οὐ πείσεις οὐδ᾽ ἤν πείσῃς is the Motto of every Polemick: like his Brethren at the Amphitheatre,
he holds it a merit to die hard; and will not say, Enough, though the Battle be decided. “Were
it shewn,” says some one, “that the old Bard borrowed all his allusions from English books
then published, our Essayist might have possibly established his System.”—In good time!—This
had scarcely been attempted by Peter Burman himself, with the Library of Shakespeare before
him.—“Truly,” as Mr. Dogberry says, “for mine own part, if I were as tedious as a King, I could
find in my heart to bestow it all on this Subject”: but where should I meet with a Reader?—When
the main Pillars are taken away, the whole Building falls in course: Nothing hath been, or
can be, pointed out, which is not easily removed; or rather, which was not virtually removed
before: a very little Analogy will do the business. I shall therefore have no occasion to trouble
myself any further; and may venture to call my Pamphlet, in the words of a pleasant Declaimer
against Sermons on the thirtieth of January, “an Answer to every thing that shall hereafter
be written on the Subject.”

But “this method of reasoning will prove any one ignorant of the Languages, who hath written
when Translations were extant.”—Shade of Burgersdicius!—does it follow, because Shakespeare’s
early life was incompatible with a course of Education—whose Contemporaries, Friends and Foes,
nay, and himself likewise, agree in his want of what is usually called Literature—whose mistakes
from equivocal Translations, and even typographical Errors, cannot possibly be accounted for
otherwise,—that Locke, to whom not one of these circumstances is applicable, understood no
Greek?—I suspect, Rollin’s Opinion of our Philosopher was not founded on this argument.

Shakespeare wanted not the Stilts of Languages to raise him above all other men. The quotation
from Lilly in the Taming of the Shrew, if indeed it be his, strongly proves the extent of his
reading: had he known Terence, he would not have quoted erroneously from his Grammar. Every
one hath met with men in common life, who, according to the language of the Water-poet, “got
only from Possum to Posset,” and yet will throw out a line occasionally from their Accidence
or their Cato de Moribus with tolerable propriety.—If, however, the old Editions be trusted
in this passage, our Author’s memory somewhat failed him in point of Concord.

The rage of Parallelisms is almost over, and in truth nothing can be more absurd. “THIS was
stolen from one Classick,—THAT from another”;—and had I not stept in to his rescue, poor Shakespeare
had been stript as naked of ornament, as when he first held Horses at the door of the Playhouse.

The late ingenious and modest Mr. Dodsley declared himself

    Untutor’d in the lore of Greece or Rome:

Yet let us take a passage at a venture from any of his performances, and a thousand to one,
it is stolen. Suppose it be his celebrated Compliment to the Ladies, in one of his earliest
pieces, The Toy-shop: “A good Wife makes the cares of the World sit easy, and adds a sweetness
to its pleasures; she is a Man’s best Companion in Prosperity, and his only Friend in Adversity;
the carefullest preserver of his Health, and the kindest Attendant in his Sickness; a faithful
Adviser in Distress, a Comforter in Affliction, and a prudent Manager in all his domestic Affairs.”—Plainly,
from a fragment of Euripides preserved by Stobæus.

    Γυνὴ γὰρ ἐν κακοῖσι καὶ νόσοις πόσει
    Ἥδιστόν ἐστι, δώματ᾽ ἤν οἰκῇ καλῶς,
    Ὀργήν τε πραύνουσα, καὶ δυσθυμίας
    Ψυχὴν μεθιστᾶσ᾽!—Par. 4to. 1623.

Malvolio in the Twelfth-Night of Shakespeare hath some expressions very similar to Alnaschar
in the Arabian Tales: which perhaps may be sufficient for some Criticks to prove his acquaintance
with Arabic!

It seems however, at last, that “Taste should determine the matter.” This, as Bardolph expresses
it, is a word of exceeding good command: but I am willing that the Standard itself be somewhat
better ascertained before it be opposed to demonstrative Evidence.—Upon the whole, I may consider
myself as the Pioneer of the Commentators:

I have removed a deal of learned Rubbish, and pointed out to them Shakespeare’s track in the
ever-pleasing Paths of Nature. This was necessarily a previous Inquiry; and I hope I may assume
with some confidence, what one of the first Criticks of the Age was pleased to declare on reading
the former Edition, that “The Question is now for ever decided.”

An Essay On The Learning Of Shakespeare: Addressed To Joseph Cradock, Esq.

“Shakespeare,” says a Brother of the Craft, “is a vast garden of criticism”: and certainly
no one can be favoured with more weeders gratis.

But how often, my dear Sir, are weeds and flowers torn up indiscriminately?—the ravaged spot
is re-planted in a moment, and a profusion of critical thorns thrown over it for security.

“A prudent man, therefore, would not venture his fingers amongst them.”

Be, however, in little pain for your friend, who regards himself sufficiently to be cautious:—yet
he asserts with confidence, that no improvement can be expected, whilst the natural soil is
mistaken for a hot-bed, and the Natives of the banks of Avon are scientifically choked with
the culture of exoticks.

Thus much for metaphor; it is contrary to the Statute to fly out so early: but who can tell,
whether it may not be demonstrated by some critick or other, that a deviation from rule is
peculiarly happy in an Essay on Shakespeare!

You have long known my opinion concerning the literary acquisitions of our immortal Dramatist;
and remember how I congratulated myself on my coincidence with the last and best of his Editors.
I told you, however, that his small Latin and less Greek would still be litigated, and you
see very assuredly that I was not mistaken. The trumpet hath been sounded against “the darling
project of representing Shakespeare as one of the illiterate vulgar”; and indeed to so good
purpose, that I would by all means recommend the performer to the army of the braying Faction,
recorded by Cervantes. The testimony of his contemporaries is again disputed; constant tradition
is opposed by flimsy arguments; and nothing is heard but confusion and nonsense. One could
scarcely imagine this a topick very likely to inflame the passions: it is asserted by Dryden,
that “those who accuse him to have wanted learning, give him the greatest commendation”; yet
an attack upon an article of faith hath been usually received with more temper and complacence,
than the unfortunate opinion which I am about to defend.

But let us previously lament, with every lover of Shakespeare, that the Question was not fully
discussed by Mr. Johnson himself: what he sees intuitively, others must arrive at by a series
of proofs; and I have not time to teach with precision: be contented therefore with a few cursory
observations, as they may happen to arise from the Chaos of Papers you have so often laughed
at, “a stock sufficient to set up an Editor in form.” I am convinced of the strength of my
cause, and superior to any little advantage from sophistical arrangements.

General positions without proofs will probably have no great weight on either side, yet it
may not seem fair to suppress them: take them therefore as their authors occur to me, and we
will afterward proceed to particulars.

The testimony of Ben stands foremost; and some have held it sufficient to decide the controversy:
in the warmest Panegyrick that ever was written, he apologizes for what he supposed the only
defect in his “beloved friend,—

                            ——Soul of the age!
    Th’ applause! delight! the wonder of our stage!—

whose memory he honoured almost to idolatry”: and conscious of the worth of ancient literature,
like any other man on the same occasion, he rather carries his acquirements above than below
the truth. “Jealousy!” cries Mr. Upton; “People will allow others any qualities, but those
upon which they highly value themselves.” Yes, where there is a competition, and the competitor
formidable: but, I think, this Critick himself hath scarcely set in opposition the learning
of Shakespeare and Jonson. When a superiority is universally granted, it by no means appears
a man’s literary interest to depress the reputation of his Antagonist.

In truth the received opinion of the pride and malignity of Jonson, at least in the earlier
part of life, is absolutely groundless: at this time scarce a play or a poem appeared without
Ben’s encomium, from the original Shakespeare to the translator of Du Bartas.

But Jonson is by no means our only authority. Drayton, the countryman and acquaintance of Shakespeare,
determines his excellence to the naturall Braine only. Digges, a wit of the town before our
Poet left the stage, is very strong to the purpose,

    ——Nature only helpt him, for looke thorow
    This whole book, thou shalt find he doth not borow
    One phrase from Greekes, nor Latines imitate,
    Nor once from vulgar languages translate.

Suckling opposes his easier strain to the sweat of learned Jonson. Denham assures us that all
he had was from old Mother-wit. His native wood-notes wild, every one remembers to be celebrated
by Milton. Dryden observes prettily enough, that “he wanted not the spectacles of books to
read Nature.” He came out of her hand, as some one else expresses it, like Pallas out of Jove’s
head, at full growth and mature.

The ever memorable Hales of Eton (who, notwithstanding his Epithet, is, I fear, almost forgotten)
had too great a knowledge both of Shakespeare and the Ancients to allow much acquaintance between
them: and urged very justly on the part of Genius in opposition to Pedantry, That “if he had
not read the Classicks, he had likewise not stolen from them; and if any Topick was produced
from a Poet of antiquity, he would undertake to shew somewhat on the same subject, at least
as well written by Shakespeare.”

Fuller, a diligent and equal searcher after truth and quibbles, declares positively that “his
learning was very little,—Nature was all the Art used upon him, as he himself, if alive, would
confess.” And may we not say he did confess it, when he apologized for his untutored lines
to his noble patron the Earl of Southampton?—this list of witnesses might be easily enlarged;
but I flatter myself, I shall stand in no need of such evidence.

One of the first and most vehement assertors of the learning of Shakespeare was the Editor
of his Poems, the well-known Mr. Gildon; and his steps were most punctually taken by a subsequent
labourer in the same department, Dr. Sewel.

Mr. Pope supposed “little ground for the common opinion of his want of learning”: once indeed
he made a proper distinction between learning and languages, as I would be understood to do
in my Title-page; but unfortunately he forgot it in the course of his disquisition, and endeavoured
to persuade himself that Shakespeare’s acquaintance with the Ancients might be actually proved
by the same medium as Jonson’s.

Mr. Theobald is “very unwilling to allow him so poor a scholar as many have laboured to represent
him”; and yet is “cautious of declaring too positively on the other side of the question.”

Dr. Warburton hath exposed the weakness of some arguments from suspected imitations; and yet
offers others, which, I doubt not, he could as easily have refuted.

Mr. Upton wonders “with what kind of reasoning any one could be so far imposed upon, as to
imagine that Shakespeare had no learning”; and lashes with much zeal and satisfaction “the
pride and pertness of dunces, who, under such a name, would gladly shelter their own idleness
and ignorance.”

He, like the learned Knight, at every anomaly in grammar or metre,

    Hath hard words ready to shew why,
    And tell what Rule he did it by.

How would the old Bard have been astonished to have found that he had very skilfully given
the trochaic dimeter brachycatalectic, COMMONLY called the ithyphallic measure, to the Witches
in Macbeth! and that now and then a halting Verse afforded a most beautiful instance of the
Pes proceleusmaticus!

“But,” continues Mr. Upton, “it was a learned age; Roger Ascham assures us that Queen Elizabeth
read more Greek every day, than some Dignitaries of the Church did Latin in a whole week.”
This appears very probable; and a pleasant proof it is of the general learning of the times,
and of Shakespeare in particular. I wonder he did not corroborate it with an extract from her
injunctions to her Clergy, that “such as were but mean Readers should peruse over before, once
or twice, the Chapters and Homilies, to the intent they might read to the better understanding
of the people.”

Dr. Grey declares that Shakespeare’s knowledge in the Greek and Latin tongues cannot reasonably
be called in question. Dr. Dodd supposes it proved, that he was not such a novice in learning
and antiquity as some people would pretend. And to close the whole, for I suspect you to be
tired of quotation, Mr. Whalley, the ingenious Editor of Jonson, hath written a piece expressly
on this side the question: perhaps from a very excusable partiality, he was willing to draw
Shakespeare from the field of Nature to classick ground, where alone, he knew, his Author could
possibly cope with him.

These criticks, and many others their coadjutors, have supposed themselves able to trace Shakespeare
in the writings of the Ancients; and have sometimes persuaded us of their own learning, whatever
became of their Author’s. Plagiarisms have been discovered in every natural description and
every moral sentiment. Indeed by the kind assistance of the various Excerpta, Sententiæ, and
Flores, this business may be effected with very little expense of time or sagacity; as Addison
hath demonstrated in his Comment on Chevy-chase, and Wagstaff on Tom Thumb; and I myself will
engage to give you quotations from the elder English writers (for, to own the truth, I was
once idle enough to collect such) which shall carry with them at least an equal degree of similarity.
But there can be no occasion of wasting any future time in this department: the world is now
in possession of the Marks of Imitation.

“Shakespeare, however, hath frequent allusions to the facts and fables of antiquity.” Granted:—and,
as Mat. Prior says, to save the effusion of more Christian ink, I will endeavour to shew how
they came to his acquaintance.

It is notorious that much of his matter of fact knowledge is deduced from Plutarch: but in
what language he read him, hath yet been the question. Mr. Upton is pretty confident of his
skill in the Original, and corrects accordingly the Errors of his Copyists by the Greek standard.
Take a few instances, which will elucidate this matter sufficiently.

In the third act of Anthony and Cleopatra, Octavius represents to his Courtiers the imperial
pomp of those illustrious lovers, and the arrangement of their dominion,

         ——Unto her
    He gave the ’stablishment of Egypt, made her
    Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
    Absolute Queen.

Read Libya, says the critick authoritatively, as is plain from Plutarch, Πρώτην μὲν ἀπέφηνε
Κλεοπάτραν βασίλισσαν Αἰγύπτου καὶ Κύπρου καὶ ΛΙΒΥΗΣ, καὶ κοίλης Συρίας.

This is very true: Mr. Heath accedes to the correction, and Mr. Johnson admits it into the
Text: but turn to the translation, from the French of Amyot, by Thomas North, in Folio, 1579;
and you will at once see the origin of the mistake.

“First of all he did establish Cleopatra Queene of Ægypt, of Cyprus, of Lydia, and the lower
Syria.”

Again in the Fourth Act,

    ——My messenger
    He hath whipt with rods, dares me to personal combat,
    Cæsar to Anthony. Let th’ old Ruffian know
    I have many other ways to die; mean time
    Laugh at his challenge.——

“What a reply is this?” cries Mr. Upton, “’tis acknowledging he should fall under the unequal
combat. But if we read,

    ——Let the old Ruffian know
    He hath many other ways to die; mean time
    I laugh at his challenge——

we have the poignancy and the very repartee of Cæsar in Plutarch.”

This correction was first made by Sir Thomas Hanmer, and Mr. Johnson hath received it. Most
indisputably it is the sense of Plutarch, and given so in the modern translations: but Shakespeare
was misled by the ambiguity of the old one, “Antonius sent again to challenge Cæsar to fight
him: Cæsar answered, That he had many other ways to die than so.”

In the Third Act of Julius Cæsar, Anthony in his well-known harangue to the people, repeats
a part of the Emperor’s will,

    ——To every Roman citizen he gives,
    To every sev’ral man, seventy-five drachmas——
    Moreover he hath left you all his walks,
    His private arbours, and new-planted orchards,
    On this side Tyber.——

“Our Author certainly wrote,” says Mr. Theobald, “On that side Tyber—

    Trans Tiberim—prope Cæsaris hortos.

And Plutarch, whom Shakespeare very diligently studied, expressly declares that he left the
publick his gardens and walks, πέραν τοῦ Ποταμοῦ, beyond the Tyber.”

This emendation likewise hath been adopted by the subsequent Editors; but hear again the old
Translation, where Shakespeare’s study lay: “He bequeathed unto every citizen of Rome seventy-five
drachmas a man, and he left his gardens and arbours unto the people, which he had on this side
of the river of Tyber.” I could furnish you with many more instances, but these are as good
as a thousand.

Hence had our author his characteristick knowledge of Brutus and Anthony, upon which much argumentation
for his learning hath been founded: and hence literatim the Epitaph on Timon, which, it was
once presumed, he had corrected from the blunders of the Latin version, by his own superior
knowledge of the Original.

I cannot, however, omit a passage of Mr. Pope. “The speeches copy’d from Plutarch in Coriolanus
may, I think, be as well made an instance of the learning of Shakespeare, as those copy’d from
Cicero in Catiline, of Ben. Jonson’s.” Let us inquire into this matter, and transcribe a speech
for a specimen. Take the famous one of Volumnia:

    Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
    And state of bodies would bewray what life
    We’ve led since thy Exile. Think with thyself,
    How more unfortunate than all living women
    Are we come hither; since thy sight, which should
    Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance with comforts,
    Constrains them weep, and shake with fear and sorrow;
    Making the mother, wife, and child to see
    The son, the husband, and the father tearing
    His Country’s bowels out: and to poor we
    Thy enmity’s most capital; thou barr’st us
    Our prayers to the Gods, which is a comfort
    That all but we enjoy. For how can we,
    Alas! how can we, for our Country pray,
    Whereto we’re bound, together with thy Victory,
    Whereto we’re bound? Alack! or we must lose
    The Country, our dear nurse; or else thy Person,
    Our comfort in the Country. We must find
    An eminent calamity, though we had
    Our wish, which side shou’d win. For either thou
    Must, as a foreign Recreant, be led
    With manacles thorough our streets; or else
    Triumphantly tread on thy Country’s ruin,
    And bear the palm, for having bravely shed
    Thy wife and children’s blood. For myself, son,
    I purpose not to wait on Fortune, ’till
    These wars determine: if I can’t persuade thee
    Rather to shew a noble grace to both parts,
    Than seek the end of one; thou shalt no sooner
    March to assault thy Country, than to tread
    (Trust to’t, thou shalt not) on thy mother’s womb,
    That brought thee to this world.

I will now give you the old Translation, which shall effectually confute Mr. Pope: for our
Author hath done little more than throw the very words of North into blank verse.

“If we helde our peace (my sonne) and determined not to speake, the state of our poore bodies,
and present sight of our rayment, would easely bewray to thee what life we haue led at home,
since thy exile and abode abroad. But thinke now with thy selfe, howe much more unfortunately
then all the women liuinge we are come hether, considering that the sight which should be most
pleasaunt to all other to beholde, spitefull fortune hath made most fearfull to us: making
my selfe to see my sonne, and my daughter here, her husband, besieging the walles of his natiue
countrie. So as that which is the only comfort to all other in their adversitie and miserie,
to pray unto the goddes, and to call to them for aide, is the onely thinge which plongeth us
into most deepe perplexitie. For we cannot (alas) together pray, both for victorie, for our
countrie, and for safety of thy life also: but a worlde of grievous curses, yea more than any
mortall enemie can heappe uppon us, are forcibly wrapt up in our prayers. For the bitter soppe
of most harde choyce is offered thy wife and children, to foregoe the one of the two: either
to lose the persone of thy selfe, or the nurse of their natiue contrie. For my selfe (my sonne)
I am determined not to tarrie, till fortune in my life time doe make an ende of this warre.
For if I cannot persuade thee, rather to doe good unto both parties, then to ouerthrowe and
destroye the one, preferring loue and nature before the malice and calamitie of warres: thou
shalt see, my sonne, and trust unto it, thou shalt no soner marche forward to assault thy countrie,
but thy foote shall tread upon thy mother’s wombe, that brought thee first into this world.”

The length of this quotation will be excused for its curiosity; and it happily wants not the
assistance of a Comment. But matters may not always be so easily managed:—a plagiarism from
Anacreon hath been detected:

    The Sun’s a thief, and with his great attraction
    Robs the vast Sea. The Moon’s an arrant thief,
    And her pale fire she snatches from the Sun.
    The Sea’s a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
    The Moon into salt tears. The Earth’s a thief,
    That feeds and breeds by a composture stol’n
    From gen’ral excrements: each thing’s a thief.

“This,” says Dr. Dodd, “is a good deal in the manner of the celebrated drinking Ode, too well
known to be inserted.” Yet it may be alleged by those who imagine Shakespeare to have been
generally able to think for himself, that the topicks are obvious, and their application is
different.—But for argument’s sake, let the Parody be granted; and “our Author,” says some
one, “may be puzzled to prove that there was a Latin translation of Anacreon at the time Shakespeare
wrote his Timon of Athens.” This challenge is peculiarly unhappy: for I do not at present recollect
any other Classick (if indeed, with great deference to Mynheer De Pauw, Anacreon may be numbered
amongst them) that was originally published with two Latin translations.

But this is not all. Puttenham in his Arte of English Poesie, 1589, quotes some one of a “reasonable
good facilitie in translation, who finding certaine of Anacreon’s Odes very well translated
by Ronsard the French poet—comes our Minion, and translates the same out of French into English”:
and his strictures upon him evince the publication. Now this identical Ode is to be met with
in Ronsard! and as his works are in few hands, I will take the liberty of transcribing it:

    La terre les eaux va boivant,
    L’arbre la boit par sa racine,
    La mer salee boit le vent,
    Et le Soleil boit la marine.
    Le Soleil est beu de la Lune,
    Tout boit soit en haut ou en bas:
    Suivant ceste reigle commune,
    Pourquoy donc ne boirons-nous pas?—Edit. Fol. p. 507.

I know not whether an observation or two relative to our Author’s acquaintance with Homer be
worth our investigation. The ingenious Mrs. Lenox observes on a passage of Troilus and Cressida,
where Achilles is roused to battle by the death of Patroclus, that Shakespeare must here have
had the Iliad in view, as “the old Story, which in many places he hath faithfully copied, is
absolutely silent with respect to this circumstance.”

And Mr. Upton is positive that the sweet oblivious Antidote, inquired after by Macbeth, could
be nothing but the Nepenthe described in the Odyssey,

    Νηπενθές τ᾽ ἄχολόν τε, κακῶν ἐπίληθον ἁπάντων.

I will not insist upon the Translations by Chapman; as the first Editions are without date,
and it may be difficult to ascertain the exact time of their publication. But the former circumstance
might have been learned from Alexander Barclay; and the latter more fully from Spenser than
from Homer himself.

“But Shakespeare,” persists Mr. Upton, “hath some Greek Expressions.” Indeed!—“We have one
in Coriolanus,

    ——It is held
    That valour is the chiefest Virtue, and
    Most dignifies the Haver;——

and another in Macbeth, where Banquo addresses the Weïrd-Sisters,

    ——My noble Partner
    You greet with present grace, and great prediction
    Of noble Having.——

    Gr. Ἔχεια,—and πρὸς τὸν Ἔχοντα, to the Haver.

This was the common language of Shakespeare’s time. “Lye in a water-bearer’s house!” says Master
Mathew of Bobadil, “a Gentleman of his Havings!”

Thus likewise John Davies in his Pleasant Descant upon English Proverbs, printed with his Scourge
of Folly, about 1612:

    Do well and have well!—neyther so still:
    For some are good Doers, whose Havings are ill;

and Daniel the Historian uses it frequently. Having seems to be synonymous with Behaviour in
Gawin Douglas and the elder Scotch writers.

Haver, in the sense of Possessor, is every where met with: tho’ unfortunately the πρὸς τὸν
Ἔχοντα of Sophocles, produced as an authority for it, is suspected by Kuster, as good a critick
in these matters, to have absolutely a different meaning.

But what shall we say to the learning of the Clown in Hamlet, “Ay, tell me that, and unyoke”?
alluding to the Βουλυτὸς of the Greeks: and Homer and his Scholiast are quoted accordingly!

If it be not sufficient to say, with Dr. Warburton, that the phrase might be taken from Husbandry,
without much depth of reading; we may produce it from a Dittie of the workmen of Dover, preserved
in the additions to Holingshed, p. 1546.

    My bow is broke, I would unyoke,
    My foot is sore, I can worke no more.

An expression of my Dame Quickly is next fastened upon, which you may look for in vain in the
modern text; she calls some of the pretended Fairies in the Merry Wives of Windsor,

    ——Orphan Heirs of fixed Destiny;

“and how elegant is this!” quoth Mr. Upton, supposing the word to be used, as a Grecian would
have used it, “ὀρφανὸς ab ὀρφνὸς—acting in darkness and obscurity.”

Mr. Heath assures us that the bare mention of such an interpretation is a sufficient refutation
of it: and his critical word will be rather taken in Greek than in English: in the same hands
therefore I will venture to leave all our author’s knowledge of the Old Comedy, and his etymological
learning in the word, Desdemona.

Surely poor Mr. Upton was very little acquainted with Fairies, notwithstanding his laborious
study of Spenser. The last authentick account of them is from our countryman William Lilly;
and it by no means agrees with the learned interpretation: for the angelical Creatures appeared
in his Hurst wood in a most illustrious Glory,—“and indeed,” says the Sage, “it is not given
to very many persons to endure their glorious aspects.”

The only use of transcribing these things is to shew what absurdities men for ever run into,
when they lay down an Hypothesis, and afterward seek for arguments in the support of it. What
else could induce this man, by no means a bad scholar, to doubt whether Truepenny might not
be derived from Τρύπανον; and quote upon us with much parade an old Scholiast on Aristophanes?—I
will not stop to confute him: nor take any notice of two or three more Expressions, in which
he was pleased to suppose some learned meaning or other; all which he might have found in every
Writer of the time, or still more easily in the vulgar Translation of the Bible, by consulting
the Concordance of Alexander Cruden.

But whence have we the Plot of Timon, except from the Greek of Lucian?—The Editors and Criticks
have been never at a greater loss than in their inquiries of this sort; and the source of a
Tale hath been often in vain sought abroad, which might easily have been found at home: My
good friend, the very ingenious Editor of the Reliques of ancient English Poetry, hath shewn
our Author to have been sometimes contented with a legendary Ballad.

The Story of the Misanthrope is told in almost every Collection of the time; and particularly
in two books, with which Shakespeare was intimately acquainted; the Palace of Pleasure, and
the English Plutarch. Indeed from a passage in an old Play, called Jack Drum’s Entertainment,
I conjecture that he had before made his appearance on the Stage.

Were this a proper place for such a disquisition, I could give you many cases of this kind.
We are sent for instance to Cinthio for the Plot of Measure for Measure, and Shakespeare’s
judgement hath been attacked for some deviations from him in the conduct of it: when probably
all he knew of the matter was from Madam Isabella in the Heptameron of Whetstone. Ariosto is
continually quoted for the Fable of Much ado about Nothing; but I suspect our Poet to have
been satisfied with the Geneura of Turberville. As you like it was certainly borrowed, if we
believe Dr. Grey, and Mr. Upton, from the Coke’s Tale of Gamelyn; which by the way was not
printed ’till a century afterward: when in truth the old Bard, who was no hunter of MSS., contented
himself solely with Lodge’s Rosalynd or Euphues’ Golden Legacye. 4to. 1590. The Story of All’s
well that ends well, or, as I suppose it to have been sometimes called, Love’s labour wonne,
is originally indeed the property of Boccace, but it came immediately to Shakespeare from Painter’s
Giletta of Narbon. Mr. Langbaine could not conceive whence the Story of Pericles could be taken,
“not meeting in History with any such Prince of Tyre”; yet his legend may be found at large
in old Gower, under the name of Appolynus.

Pericles is one of the Plays omitted in the later Editions, as well as the early Folios, and
not improperly; tho’ it was published many years before the death of Shakespeare, with his
name in the Title-page. Aulus Gellius informs us that some Plays are ascribed absolutely to
Plautus, which he only re-touched and polished; and this is undoubtedly the case with our Author
likewise. The revival of this performance, which Ben Jonson calls stale and mouldy, was probably
his earliest attempt in the Drama. I know that another of these discarded pieces, the Yorkshire
Tragedy, had been frequently called so; but most certainly it was not written by our Poet at
all: nor indeed was it printed in his life-time. The Fact on which it is built was perpetrated
no sooner than 1604: much too late for so mean a performance from the hand of Shakespeare.

Sometimes a very little matter detects a forgery. You may remember a Play called the Double
Falshood, which Mr. Theobald was desirous of palming upon the world for a posthumous one of
Shakespeare: and I see it is classed as such in the last Edition of the Bodleian Catalogue.
Mr. Pope himself, after all the strictures of Scriblerus, in a Letter to Aaron Hill, supposes
it of that age; but a mistaken accent determines it to have been written since the middle of
the last century:

         ——This late example
    Of base Henriquez, bleeding in me now,
    From each good Aspect takes away my trust.

And in another place,

    You have an Aspect, Sir, of wondrous wisdom.

The word Aspect, you perceive, is here accented on the first Syllable, which, I am confident,
in any sense of it, was never the case in the time of Shakespeare; though it may sometimes
appear to be so, when we do not observe a preceding Elision.

Some of the professed Imitators of our old Poets have not attended to this and many other Minutiæ:
I could point out to you several performances in the respective Styles of Chaucer, Spenser,
and Shakespeare, which the imitated Bard could not possibly have either read or construed.

This very accent hath troubled the Annotators on Milton. Dr. Bentley observes it to be “a tone
different from the present use.” Mr. Manwaring, in his Treatise of Harmony and Numbers, very
solemnly informs us that “this Verse is defective both in Accent and Quantity, B. 3. V. 266.

    His words here ended, but his meek Aspéct
    Silent yet spake.——

Here,” says he, “a syllable is acuted and long, whereas it should be short and graved”!

And a still more extraordinary Gentleman, one Green, who published a Specimen of a new Version
of the Paradise Lost, into BLANK verse, “by which that amazing Work is brought somewhat nearer
the Summit of Perfection,” begins with correcting a blunder in the fourth book, V. 540:

         ——The setting Sun
    Slowly descended, and with right Aspéct—
    Levell’d his evening rays.——

Not so in the New Version:

    Meanwhile the setting Sun descending slow—
    Level’d with áspect right his ev’ning rays.

Enough of such Commentators.—The celebrated Dr. Dee had a Spirit, who would sometimes condescend
to correct him, when peccant in Quantity: and it had been kind of him to have a little assisted
the Wights above-mentioned.—Milton affected the Antique; but it may seem more extraordinary
that the old Accent should be adopted in Hudibras.

After all, the Double Falshood is superior to Theobald. One passage, and one only in the whole
Play, he pretended to have written:

         ——Strike up, my Masters;
    But touch the Strings with a religious softness:
    Teach sound to languish thro’ the Night’s dull Ear,
    Till Melancholy start from her lazy Couch,
    And Carelessness grow Convert to Attention.

These lines were particularly admired; and his vanity could not resist the opportunity of claiming
them: but his claim had been more easily allowed to any other part of the performance.

To whom then shall we ascribe it?—Somebody hath told us, who should seem to be a Nostrum-monger
by his argument, that, let Accents be how they will, it is called an original Play of William
Shakespeare in the Kings Patent, prefixed to Mr. Theobald’s Edition, 1728, and consequently
there could be no fraud in the matter. Whilst, on the contrary, the Irish Laureat, Mr. Victor,
remarks (and were it true, it would be certainly decisive) that the Plot is borrowed from a
Novel of Cervantes, not published ’till the year after Shakespeare’s death. But unluckily the
same Novel appears in a part of Don Quixote, which was printed in Spanish, 1605, and in English
by Shelton, 1612.—The same reasoning, however, which exculpated our Author from the Yorkshire
Tragedy, may be applied on the present occasion.

But you want my opinion:—and from every mark of Style and Manner, I make no doubt of ascribing
it to Shirley. Mr. Langbaine informs us that he left some Plays in MS.—These were written about
the time of the Restoration, when the Accent in question was more generally altered.

Perhaps the mistake arose from an abbreviation of the name. Mr. Dodsley knew not that the Tragedy
of Andromana was Shirley’s, from the very same cause. Thus a whole stream of Biographers tell
us that Marston’s Plays were printed at London, 1633, “by the care of William Shakespeare,
the famous Comedian.”—Here again I suppose, in some Transcript, the real Publisher’s name,
William Sheares, was abbreviated. No one hath protracted the life of Shakespeare beyond 1616,
except Mr. Hume; who is pleased to add a year to it, in contradiction to all manner of evidence.

Shirley is spoken of with contempt in Mac Flecknoe; but his Imagination is sometimes fine to
an extraordinary degree. I recollect a passage in the fourth book of the Paradise Lost, which
hath been suspected of Imitation, as a prettiness below the Genius of Milton: I mean, where
Uriel glides backward and forward to Heaven on a Sunbeam. Dr. Newton informs us that this might
possibly be hinted by a Picture of Annibal Caracci in the King of France’s Cabinet: but I am
apt to believe that Milton had been struck with a Portrait in Shirley. Fernando, in the Comedy
of the Brothers, 1652, describes Jacinta at Vespers:

    Her eye did seem to labour with a tear,
    Which suddenly took birth, but overweigh’d
    With it’s own swelling, drop’d upon her bosome;
    Which, by reflexion of her light, appear’d
    As nature meant her sorrow for an ornament:
    After, her looks grew chearfull, and I saw
    A smile shoot gracefull upward from her eyes,
    As if they had gain’d a victory o’er grief,
    And with it many beams twisted themselves,
    Upon whose golden threads the Angels walk
    To and again from Heaven.——

You must not think me infected with the spirit of Lauder, if I give you another of Milton’s
Imitations:

         ——The Swan with arched neck
    Between her white wings mantling proudly, rows
    Her state with oary feet.—B. 7. V. 438, &c.

“The ancient Poets,” says Mr. Richardson, “have not hit upon this beauty; so lavish as they
have been in their descriptions of the Swan. Homer calls the Swan long-necked, δουλιχοδείρον;
but how much more pittoresque, if he had arched this length of neck?”

For this beauty, however, Milton was beholden to Donne; whose name, I believe, at present is
better known than his writings:

         ——Like a Ship in her full trim,
    A Swan, so white that you may unto him
      Compare all whitenesse, but himselfe to none,
    Glided along, and as he glided watch’d,
    And with his arched neck this poore fish catch’d.—Progresse of
                the Soul, St. 24.

Those highly finished Landscapes, the Seasons, are indeed copied from Nature: but Thomson sometimes
recollected the hand of his Master:

         ——The stately-sailing Swan
    Gives out his snowy plumage to the gale;
    And, arching proud his neck, with oary feet
    Bears forward fierce, and guards his osier Isle,
    Protective of his young.——

But to return, as we say on other occasions—Perhaps the Advocates for Shakespeare’s knowledge
of the Latin language may be more successful. Mr. Gildon takes the Van. “It is plain that He
was acquainted with the Fables of antiquity very well: that some of the Arrows of Cupid are
pointed with Lead, and others with Gold, he found in Ovid; and what he speaks of Dido, in Virgil:
nor do I know any translation of these Poets so ancient as Shakespeare’s time.” The passages
on which these sagacious remarks are made occur in the Midsummer Night’s Dream; and exhibit,
we see, a clear proof of acquaintance with the Latin Classicks. But we are not answerable for
Mr. Gildon’s ignorance; he might have been told of Caxton and Douglas, of Surrey and Stanyhurst,
of Phaer and Twyne, of Fleming and Golding, of Turberville and Churchyard! but these Fables
were easily known without the help of either the originals or the translations. The Fate of
Dido had been sung very early by Gower, Chaucer, and Lydgate; Marloe had even already introduced
her to the Stage: and Cupid’s arrows appear with their characteristick differences in Surrey,
in Sidney, in Spenser, and every Sonnetteer of the time. Nay, their very names were exhibited
long before in the Romaunt of the Rose: a work you may venture to look into, notwithstanding
Master Prynne hath so positively assured us, on the word of John Gerson, that the Author is
most certainly damned, if he did not care for a serious repentance.

Mr. Whalley argues in the same manner, and with the same success. He thinks a passage in the
Tempest,

         —— High Queen of State,
    Great Juno comes; I know her by her Gait,

a remarkable instance of Shakespeare’s knowledge of ancient Poetick story; and that the hint
was furnished by the Divum incedo Regina of Virgil.

You know, honest John Taylor, the Water-poet, declares that he never learned his Accidence,
and that Latin and French were to him Heathen-Greek; yet, by the help of Mr. Whalley’s argument,
I will prove him a learned Man, in spite of every thing he may say to the contrary: for thus
he makes a Gallant address his Lady,

“Most inestimable Magazine of Beauty—in whom the Port and Majesty of Juno, the Wisdom of Jove’s
braine-bred Girle, and the Feature of Cytherea, have their domestical habitation.”

In the Merchant of Venice, we have an oath “By two-headed Janus”; and here, says Dr. Warburton,
Shakespeare shews his knowledge in the Antique: and so again does the Water-poet, who describes
Fortune,

    Like a Janus with a double-face.

But Shakespeare hath somewhere a Latin Motto, quoth Dr. Sewel; and so hath John Taylor, and
a whole Poem upon it into the bargain.

You perceive, my dear Sir, how vague and indeterminate such arguments must be: for in fact
this sweet Swan of Thames, as Mr. Pope calls him, hath more scraps of Latin, and allusions
to antiquity, than are any where to be met with in the writings of Shakespeare. I am sorry
to trouble you with trifles, yet what must be done, when grave men insist upon them?

It should seem to be the opinion of some modern criticks, that the personages of classick land
began only to be known in England in the time of Shakespeare; or rather, that he particularly
had the honour of introducing them to the notice of his countrymen.

For instance,—Rumour painted full of tongues gives us a Prologue to one of the parts of Henry
the fourth; and, says Dr. Dodd, Shakespeare had doubtless a view to either Virgil or Ovid in
their description of Fame.

But why so? Stephen Hawes, in his Pastime of Pleasure, had long before exhibited her in the
same manner,

    A goodly Lady envyroned about
    With tongues of fyre;——

and so had Sir Thomas More in one of his Pageants,

    Fame I am called, mervayle you nothing
    Though with tonges I am compassed all rounde;

not to mention her elaborate Portrait by Chaucer, in the Boke of Fame; and by John Higgins,
one of the Assistants in the Mirour for Magistrates, in his Legend of King Albanacte. It is
no reflection on this ingenious Gentleman, when I say that I use on this occasion the words
of a better Critick, who yet was not willing to carry the illiteracy of our Poet too far:—“They
who are in such astonishment at the learning of Shakespeare, forget that the Pagan Imagery
was familiar to all the Poets of his time; and that abundance of this sort of learning was
to be picked up from almost every English book that he could take into his hands.” For not
to insist upon Stephen Bateman’s Golden booke of the leaden Goddes, 1577, and several other
laborious compilations on the subject, all this and much more Mythology might as perfectly
have been learned from the Testament of Creseide, and the Fairy Queen, as from a regular Pantheon,
or Polymetis himself.

Mr. Upton, not contented with Heathen learning, when he finds it in the text, must necessarily
superadd it, when it appears to be wanting; because Shakespeare most certainly hath lost it
by accident!

In Much ado about Nothing, Don Pedro says of the insensible Benedict, “He hath twice or thrice
cut Cupid’s bow-string, and the little Hangman dare not shoot at him.”

This mythology is not recollected in the Ancients, and therefore the critick hath no doubt
but his Author wrote “Henchman,—a Page, Pusio: and this word seeming too hard for the Printer,
he translated the little Urchin into a Hangman, a character no way belonging to him.”

But this character was not borrowed from the Ancients;—it came from the Arcadia of Sir Philip
Sidney:

    Millions of yeares this old drivell Cupid lives;
    While still more wretch, more wicked he doth prove:
    Till now at length that Jove an office gives,
    (At Juno’s suite who much did Argus love)
      In this our world a Hangman for to be
      Of all those fooles that will have all they see.—B. 2. Ch. 14.

I know it may be objected on the authority of such Biographers as Theophilus Cibber, and the
Writer of the Life of Sir Philip, prefixed to the modern Editions, that the Arcadia was not
published before 1613, and consequently too late for this imitation: but I have a Copy in my
own possession, printed for W. Ponsonbie, 1590, 4to. which hath escaped the notice of the industrious
Ames, and the rest of our typographical Antiquaries.

Thus likewise every word of antiquity is to be cut down to the classical standard.

In a Note on the Prologue to Troilus and Cressida (which, by the way, is not met with in the
Quarto), Mr. Theobald informs us that the very names of the gates of Troy have been barbarously
demolished by the Editors: and a deal of learned dust he makes in setting them right again;
much however to Mr. Heath’s satisfaction. Indeed the learning is modestly withdrawn from the
later Editions, and we are quietly instructed to read,

    Dardan, and Thymbria, Ilia, Scæa, Troian,
    And Antenorides.

But had he looked into the Troy boke of Lydgate, instead of puzzling himself with Dares Phrygius,
he would have found the horrid demolition to have been neither the work of Shakespeare nor
his Editors.

    Therto his cyte | compassed enuyrowne
    Hadde gates VI to entre into the towne:
    The firste of all | and strengest eke with all,
    Largest also | and moste pryncypall,
    Of myghty byldyng | alone pereless,
    Was by the kynge called | Dardanydes;
    And in storye | lyke as it is founde,
    Tymbria | was named the seconde;
    And the thyrde | called Helyas,
    The fourthe gate | hyghte also Cetheas;
    The fyfthe Trojana, | the syxth Anthonydes,
    Stronge and myghty | both in werre and pes.—Lond. empr. by R.
                Pynson, 1513. Fol. B. 2. Ch. 11.

Our excellent friend Mr. Hurd hath born a noble testimony on our side of the question. “Shakespeare,”
says this true Critick, “owed the felicity of freedom from the bondage of classical superstition
to the want of what is called the advantage of a learned Education.—This, as well as a vast
superiority of Genius, hath contributed to lift this astonishing man to the glory of being
esteemed the most original thinker and speaker, since the times of Homer.” And hence indisputably
the amazing Variety of Style and Manner, unknown to all other Writers: an argument of itself
sufficient to emancipate Shakespeare from the supposition of a Classical training. Yet, to
be honest, one Imitation is fastened on our Poet: which hath been insisted upon likewise by
Mr. Upton and Mr. Whalley. You remember it in the famous Speech of Claudio in Measure for Measure:

    Ay, but to die and go we know not where! &c.

Most certainly the Ideas of a “Spirit bathing in fiery floods,” of residing “in thrilling regions
of thick-ribbed ice,” or of being “imprisoned in the viewless winds,” are not original in our
Author; but I am not sure that they came from the Platonick Hell of Virgil. The Monks also
had their hot and their cold Hell, “The fyrste is fyre that ever brenneth, and never gyveth
lighte,” says an old Homily:—“The seconde is passyng colde, that yf a grete hylle of fyre were
casten therin, it sholde torne to yce.” One of their Legends, well remembered in the time of
Shakespeare, gives us a Dialogue between a Bishop and a Soul tormented in a piece of ice, which
was brought to cure a grete brenning heate in his foot: take care you do not interpret this
the Gout, for I remember M. Menage quotes a Canon upon us,

    Si quis dixerit Episcopum PODAGRA laborare, Anathema sit.

Another tells us of the Soul of a Monk fastened to a Rock, which the winds were to blow about
for a twelve-month, and purge of it’s Enormities. Indeed this doctrine was before now introduced
into poetick fiction, as you may see in a Poem, “where the Lover declareth his pains to exceed
far the pains of Hell,” among the many miscellaneous ones subjoined to the Works of Surrey.
Nay, a very learned and inquisitive Brother-Antiquary, our Greek Professor, hath observed to
me on the authority of Blefkenius, that this was the ancient opinion of the inhabitants of
Iceland; who were certainly very little read either in the Poet or the Philosopher.

After all, Shakespeare’s curiosity might lead him to Translations. Gawin Douglas really changes
the Platonick Hell into the “punytion of Saulis in Purgatory”: and it is observable that when
the Ghost informs Hamlet of his Doom there,

    Till the foul crimes done in his days of nature
    Are burnt and purg’d away,——

the Expression is very similar to the Bishop’s: I will give you his Version as concisely as
I can; “It is a nedeful thyng to suffer panis and torment—Sum in the wyndis, Sum under the
watter, and in the fire uthir Sum:—thus the mony Vices—

    Contrakkit in the corpis be done away
    And purgit.——Sixte Booke of Eneados. Fol. p. 191.

It seems, however, “that Shakespeare himself in the Tempest hath translated some expressions
of Virgil: witness the O Dea certe.” I presume we are here directed to the passage where Ferdinand
says of Miranda, after hearing the Songs of Ariel,

         ——Most sure, the Goddess
    On whom these airs attend;

and so very small Latin is sufficient for this formidable translation, that if it be thought
any honour to our Poet, I am loth to deprive him of it; but his honour is not built on such
a sandy foundation. Let us turn to a real Translator, and examine whether the Idea might not
be fully comprehended by an English reader; supposing it necessarily borrowed from Virgil.
Hexameters in our own language are almost forgotten; we will quote therefore this time from
Stanyhurst:

    O to thee, fayre Virgin, what terme may rightly be fitted?
    Thy tongue, thy visage no mortal frayltie resembleth.
    ——No doubt, a Godesse!—Edit. 1583.

Gabriel Harvey desired only to be “Epitaph’d, the Inventor of the English Hexameter,” and for
a while every one would be halting on Roman feet; but the ridicule of our Fellow-Collegian
Hall, in one of his Satires, and the reasoning of Daniel, in his Defence of Rhyme against Campion,
presently reduced us to our original Gothic.

But to come nearer the purpose, what will you say if I can shew you that Shakespeare, when,
in the favourite phrase, he had a Latin Poet in his Eye, most assuredly made use of a Translation?

Prospero in the Tempest begins the Address to his attendant Spirits,

    Ye Elves of Hills, of standing Lakes, and Groves.

This speech Dr. Warburton rightly observes to be borrowed from Medea in Ovid: and “it proves,”
says Mr. Holt, “beyond contradiction, that Shakespeare was perfectly acquainted with the Sentiments
of the Ancients on the Subject of Inchantments.” The original lines are these,

    Auræque, & venti, montesque, amnesque, lacusque,
    Diique omnes nemorum, diique omnes noctis adeste.

It happens, however, that the translation by Arthur Golding is by no means literal, and Shakespeare
hath closely followed it;

    Ye Ayres and Winds; Ye Elves of Hills, of Brookes, of Woods
                alone,
    Of standing Lakes, and of the Night, approche ye everych one.

I think it is unnecessary to pursue this any further; especially as more powerful arguments
await us.

In the Merchant of Venice, the Jew, as an apology for his cruelty to Anthonio, rehearses many
Sympathies and Antipathies for which no reason can be rendered,

    Some love not a gaping Pig——
    And others when a Bagpipe sings i’ th’ nose
    Cannot contain their urine for affection.

This incident Dr. Warburton supposes to be taken from a passage in Scaliger’s Exercitations
against Cardan, “Narrabo tibi jocosam Sympathiam Reguli Vasconis Equitis: Is dum viveret, audito
Phormingis sono, urinam illico facere cogebatur.” “And,” proceeds the Doctor, “to make this
jocular story still more ridiculous, Shakespeare, I suppose, translated Phorminx by Bagpipes.”

Here we seem fairly caught;—for Scaliger’s work was never, as the term goes, done into English.
But luckily in an old translation from the French of Peter le Loier, entitled, A treatise of
Specters, or straunge Sights, Visions and Apparitions appearing sensibly unto men, we have
this identical Story from Scaliger: and what is still more, a marginal Note gives us in all
probability the very fact alluded to, as well as the word of Shakespeare, “Another Gentleman
of this quality liued of late in Deuon neere Excester, who could not endure the playing on
a Bagpipe.”

We may just add, as some observation hath been made upon it, that Affection in the sense of
Sympathy was formerly technical; and so used by Lord Bacon, Sir Kenelm Digby, and many other
Writers.

A single word in Queen Catherine’s Character of Wolsey, in Henry the eighth, is brought by
the Doctor as another argument for the learning of Shakespeare:

         ——He was a man
    Of an unbounded Stomach, ever ranking
    Himself with Princes; one that by Suggestion
    Ty’d all the kingdom. Simony was fair play.
    His own opinion was his law, i’ th’ presence
    He would say untruths, and be ever double
    Both in his words and meaning. He was never,
    But where he meant to ruin, pitiful.
    His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
    But his performance, as he now is, nothing.
    Of his own body he was ill, and gave
    The Clergy ill example.

“The word Suggestion,” says the Critick, “is here used with great propriety, and seeming knowledge
of the Latin tongue”: and he proceeds to settle the sense of it from the late Roman writers
and their glossers. But Shakespeare’s knowledge was from Holingshed, whom he follows verbatim:

“This Cardinal was of a great stomach, for he compted himself equal with princes, and by craftie
Suggestion got into his hands innumerable treasure: he forced little on simonie, and was not
pitifull, and stood affectionate in his own opinion: in open presence he would lie and saie
untruth, and was double both in speech and meaning: he would promise much and performe little:
he was vicious of his bodie, and gaue the clergie euil example.” Edit. 1587. p. 922.

Perhaps after this quotation you may not think that Sir Thomas Hanmer, who reads Tyth’d instead
of Ty’d all the kingdom, deserves quite so much of Dr. Warburton’s severity.—Indisputably the
passage, like every other in the Speech, is intended to express the meaning of the parallel
one in the Chronicle: it cannot therefore be credited that any man, when the Original was produced,
should still chuse to defend a cant acceptation; and inform us, perhaps, seriously, that in
gaming language, from I know not what practice, to tye is to equal! A sense of the word, as
far as I have yet found, unknown to our old Writers; and, if known, would not surely have been
used in this place by our Author.

But let us turn from conjecture to Shakespeare’s authorities. Hall, from whom the above description
is copied by Holingshed, is very explicit in the demands of the Cardinal: who, having insolently
told the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, “For sothe I thinke that halfe your substaunce were to litle,”
assures them by way of comfort at the end of his harangue, that upon an average the tythe should
be sufficient; “Sers, speake not to breake that thyng that is concluded, for some shal not
paie the tenth parte, and some more.”—And again; “Thei saied, the Cardinall by Visitacions,
makyng of Abbottes, probates of testamentes, graunting of faculties, licences, and other pollyngs
in his Courtes legantines, had made his threasore egall with the kynges.” Edit. 1548. p. 138.
and 143.

Skelton, in his Why come ye not to Court, gives us, after his rambling manner, a curious character
of Wolsey:

         ——By and by
    He will drynke us so dry
    And sucke us so nye
    That men shall scantly
    Haue penny or halpennye
    God saue hys noble grace
    And graunt him a place
    Endlesse to dwel
    With the deuill of hel
    For and he were there
    We nead neuer feare
    Of the feendes blacke
    For I undertake
    He wold so brag and crake
    That he wold than make
    The deuils to quake
    To shudder and to shake
    Lyke a fier drake
    And with a cole rake
    Bruse them on a brake
    And binde them to a stake
    And set hel on fyre
    At his own desire
    He is such a grym syre!—Edit. 1568.

Mr. Upton and some other Criticks have thought it very scholar-like in Hamlet to swear the
Centinels on a Sword: but this is for ever met with. For instance, in the Passus primus of
Pierce Plowman,

    Dauid in his daies dubbed knightes,
    And did hem swere on her sword to serue truth euer.

And in Hieronymo, the common Butt of our Author, and the Wits of the time, says Lorenzo to
Pedringano,

    Swear on this cross, that what thou sayst is true—
    But if I prove thee perjured and unjust,
    This very sword, whereon thou took’st thine oath,
    Shall be the worker of thy Tragedy!

We have therefore no occasion to go with Mr. Garrick as far as the French of Brantôme to illustrate
this ceremony: a Gentleman who will be always allowed the first Commentator on Shakespeare,
when he does not carry us beyond himself.

Mr. Upton, however, in the next place, produces a passage from Henry the sixth, whence he argues
it to be very plain that our Author had not only read Cicero’s Offices, but even more critically
than many of the Editors:

         ——This Villain here,
    Being Captain of a Pinnace, threatens more
    Than Bargulus, the strong Illyrian Pirate.

So the Wight, he observes with great exultation, is named by Cicero in the Editions of Shakespeare’s
time, “Bargulus Illyrius latro”; tho’ the modern Editors have chosen to call him Bardylis:—“and
thus I found it in two MSS.”—And thus he might have found it in two Translations, before Shakespeare
was born. Robert Whytinton, 1533, calls him, “Bargulus a Pirate upon the see of Illiry”; and
Nicholas Grimald, about twenty years afterward, “Bargulus the Illyrian Robber.”

But it had been easy to have checked Mr. Upton’s exultation, by observing that Bargulus does
not appear in the Quarto.—Which also is the case with some fragments of Latin verses, in the
different Parts of this doubtful performance.

It is scarcely worth mentioning that two or three more Latin passages, which are met with in
our Author, are immediately transcribed from the Story or Chronicle before him. Thus in Henry
the fifth, whose right to the kingdom of France is copiously demonstrated by the Archbishop:

         ——There is no bar
    To make against your Highness’ claim to France,
    But this which they produce from Pharamond:
    In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant;
    No Woman shall succeed in Salike land:
    Which Salike land the French unjustly gloze
    To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
    The founder of this law and female bar.
    Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
    That the land Salike lies in Germany,
    Between the floods of Sala and of Elve, &c.

Archbishop Chichelie, says Holingshed, “did much inueie against the surmised and false fained
law Salike, which the Frenchmen alledge euer against the kings of England in barre of their
just title to the crowne of France. The very words of that supposed law are these, In terram
Salicam mulieres ne succedant, that is to saie, Into the Salike land let not women succeed;
which the French glossers expound to be the realm of France, and that this law was made by
King Pharamond: whereas yet their owne authors affirme that the land Salike is in Germanie,
between the rivers of Elbe and Sala,” &c. p. 545.

It hath lately been repeated from Mr. Guthrie’s Essay upon English Tragedy, that the Portrait
of Macbeth’s Wife is copied from Buchanan, “whose spirit, as well as words, is translated into
the Play of Shakespeare: and it had signified nothing to have pored only on Holingshed for
Facts.”—“Animus etiam, per se ferox, prope quotidianis conviciis uxoris (quæ omnium consiliorum
ei erat conscia) stimulabatur.”—This is the whole that Buchanan says of the Lady; and truly
I see no more spirit in the Scotch than in the English Chronicler. “The wordes of the three
weird Sisters also greatly encouraged him [to the Murder of Duncan], but specially his wife
lay sore upon him to attempt the thing, as she that was very ambitious, brenning in unquenchable
desire to beare the name of a Queene.” Edit. 1577. p. 244.

This part of Holingshed is an Abridgment of Johne Bellenden’s translation of the noble clerk,
Hector Boece, imprinted at Edinburgh, in Fol. 1541. I will give the passage as it is found
there. “His wyfe impacient of lang tary (as all wemen are) specially quhare they ar desirus
of ony purpos, gaif hym gret artation to pursew the thrid weird, that sche micht be ane quene,
calland hym oft tymis febyl cowart and nocht desyrus of honouris, sen he durst not assailze
the thing with manheid and curage, quhilk is offerit to hym be beniuolence of fortoun. Howbeit
sindry otheris hes assailzeit sic thinges afore with maist terribyl jeopardyis, quhen they
had not sic sickernes to succeid in the end of thair laubouris as he had.” p. 173.

But we can demonstrate that Shakespeare had not the Story from Buchanan. According to him,
the Weïrd-Sisters salute Macbeth, “Una Angusiæ Thamum, altera Moraviæ, tertia Regem.”—Thane
of Angus, and of Murray, &c., but according to Holingshed, immediately from Bellenden, as it
stands in Shakespeare: “The first of them spake and sayde, All hayle Makbeth, Thane of Glammis,—the
second of them said, Hayle Makbeth, Thane of Cawder; but the third sayde, All hayle Makbeth,
that hereafter shall be king of Scotland.” p. 243.

    1 Witch. All hail, Macbeth! Hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!

    2 Witch. All hail, Macbeth! Hail to thee, Thane of Cawdor!

    3 Witch. All hail, Macbeth! that shalt be King hereafter!

Here too our Poet found the equivocal Predictions, on which his Hero so fatally depended. “He
had learned of certain wysards, how that he ought to take heede of Macduffe;—and surely hereupon
had he put Macduffe to death, but a certaine witch, whom he had in great trust, had tolde that
he should neuer be slain with man borne of any woman, nor vanquished till the Wood of Bernane
came to the Castell of Dunsinane.” p. 244. And the Scene between Malcolm and Macduff in the
fourth act is almost literally taken from the Chronicle.

Macbeth was certainly one of Shakespeare’s latest Productions, and it might possibly have been
suggested to him by a little performance on the same subject at Oxford, before King James,
1605. I will transcribe my notice of it from Wake’s Rex Platonicus: “Fabulæ ansam dedit antiqua
de Regia prosapia historiola apud Scoto-Britannos celebrata, quæ narrat tres olim Sibyllas
occurrisse duobus Scotiæ proceribus, Macbetho & Banchoni, & illum prædixisse Regem futurum,
sed Regem nullum geniturum; hunc Regem non futurum, sed Reges geniturum multos. Vaticinii veritatem
rerum eventus comprobavit. Banchonis enim e stirpe Potentissimus Jacobus oriundus.” p. 29.

A stronger argument hath been brought from the Plot of Hamlet. Dr. Grey and Mr. Whalley assure
us that for this Shakespeare must have read Saxo Grammaticus in Latin, for no translation hath
been made into any modern Language. But the truth is, he did not take it from Saxo at all;
a Novel called the Hystorie of Hamblet was his original: a fragment of which, in black Letter,
I have been favoured with by a very curious and intelligent Gentleman, to whom the lovers of
Shakespeare will some time or other owe great obligations.

It hath indeed been said that, “IF such an history exists, it is almost impossible that any
poet unacquainted with the Latin language (supposing his perceptive faculties to have been
ever so acute) could have caught the characteristical madness of Hamlet, described by Saxo
Grammaticus, so happily as it is delineated by Shakespeare.”

Very luckily, our Fragment gives us a part of Hamlet’s Speech to his Mother, which sufficiently
replies to this observation:—“It was not without cause, and juste occasion, that my gestures,
countenances, and words seeme to proceed from a madman, and that I desire to haue all men esteeme
mee wholy depriued of sence and, reasonable understanding, bycause I am well assured that he
that hath made no conscience to kill his owne brother (accustomed to murthers, and allured
with desire of gouernement without controll in his treasons) will not spare to saue himselfe
with the like crueltie, in the blood and flesh of the loyns of his brother, by him massacred:
and therefore it is better for me to fayne madnesse then to use my right sences as nature hath
bestowed them upon me. The bright shining clearnes therof I am forced to hide vnder this shadow
of dissimulation, as the sun doth hir beams vnder some great cloud, when the wether in summer
time ouercasteth: the face of a mad man serueth to couer my gallant countenance, and the gestures
of a fool are fit for me, to the end that, guiding my self wisely therin, I may preserue my
life for the Danes and the memory of my late deceased father, for that the desire of reuenging
his death is so ingrauen in my heart, that if I dye not shortly, I hope to take such and so
great vengeance, that these Countryes shall for euer speake thereof. Neuerthelesse I must stay
the time, meanes, and occasion, lest by making ouer great hast I be now the cause of mine owne
sodaine ruine and ouerthrow, and by that meanes end, before I beginne to effect my hearts desire:
hee that hath to doe with a wicked, disloyall, cruell, and discourteous man, must vse craft,
and politike inuentions, such as a fine witte can best imagine, not to discouer his interprise:
for seeing that by force I cannot effect my desire, reason alloweth me by dissimulation, subtiltie,
and secret practises to proceed therein.”

But to put the matter out of all question, my communicative Friend above-mentioned, Mr. Capell
(for why should I not give myself the credit of his name?), hath been fortunate enough to procure
from the Collection of the Duke of Newcastle a complete Copy of the Hystorie of Hamblet, which
proves to be a translation from the French of Belleforest; and he tells me that “all the chief
incidents of the Play, and all the capital Characters, are there in embryo, after a rude and
barbarous manner: sentiments indeed there are none that Shakespeare could borrow; nor any expression
but one, which is, where Hamlet kills Polonius behind the arras: in doing which he is made
to cry out, as in the Play, ‘a rat, a rat!’ ”—So much for Saxo Grammaticus!

It is scarcely conceivable how industriously the puritanical Zeal of the last age exerted itself
in destroying, amongst better things, the innocent amusements of the former. Numberless Tales
and Poems are alluded to in old Books, which are now perhaps no where to be found. Mr. Capell
informs me (and he is in these matters the most able of all men to give information) that our
Author appears to have been beholden to some Novels which he hath yet only seen in French or
Italian: but he adds, “to say they are not in some English dress, prosaic or metrical, and
perhaps with circumstances nearer to his stories, is what I will not take upon me to do: nor
indeed is it what I believe; but rather the contrary, and that time and accident will bring
some of them to light, if not all.”——

W. Painter, at the conclusion of the second Tome of his Palace of Pleasure, 1567, advertises
the Reader, “bicause sodaynly (contrary to expectation) this Volume is risen to greater heape
of leaues, I doe omit for this present time sundry Nouels of mery deuise, reseruing the same
to be joyned with the rest of an other part, wherein shall succeede the remnant of Bandello,
specially sutch (suffrable) as the learned French man François de Belleforrest hath selected,
and the choysest done in the Italian. Some also out of Erizzo, Ser Giouanni Florentino, Parabosco,
Cynthio, Straparole, Sansouino, and the best liked out of the Queene of Nauarre, and other
Authors. Take these in good part, with those that haue and shall come forth.”—But I am not
able to find that a third Tome was ever published: and it is very probable that the Interest
of his Booksellers, and more especially the prevailing Mode of the time, might lead him afterward
to print his sundry Novels separately. If this were the case, it is no wonder that such fugitive
Pieces are recovered with difficulty; when the two Tomes, which Tom. Rawlinson would have called
justa Volumina, are almost annihilated. Mr. Ames, who searched after books of this sort with
the utmost avidity, most certainly had not seen them when he published his Typographical Antiquities;
as appears from his blunders about them: and possibly I myself might have remained in the same
predicament, had I not been favoured with a Copy by my generous Friend, Mr. Lort.

Mr. Colman, in the Preface to his elegant Translation of Terence, hath offered some arguments
for the Learning of Shakespeare, which have been retailed with much confidence, since the appearance
of Mr. Johnson’s Edition.

“Besides the resemblance of particular passages scattered up and down in different plays, it
is well known that the Comedy of Errors is in great measure founded on the Menæchmi of Plautus;
but I do not recollect ever to have seen it observed that the disguise of the Pedant in the
Taming of the Shrew, and his assuming the name and character of Vincentio, seem to be evidently
taken from the disguise of the Sycophanta in the Trinummus of the said Author; and there is
a quotation from the Eunuch of Terence also, so familiarly introduced into the Dialogue of
the Taming of the Shrew, that I think it puts the question of Shakespeare’s having read the
Roman Comick Poets in the original language out of all doubt,

    Redime te captum, quam queas, minimo.”

With respect to resemblances, I shall not trouble you any further.—That the Comedy of Errors
is founded on the Menæchmi, it is notorious: nor is it less so, that a Translation of it by
W. W., perhaps William Warner, the Author of Albion’s England, was extant in the time of Shakespeare;
tho’ Mr. Upton, and some other advocates for his learning, have cautiously dropt the mention
of it. Besides this (if indeed it were different), in the Gesta Grayorum, the Christmas Revels
of the Gray’s-Inn Gentlemen, 1594, “a Comedy of Errors like to Plautus his Menechmus was played
by the Players.” And the same hath been suspected to be the Subject of the goodlie Comedie
of Plautus acted at Greenwich before the King and Queen in 1520; as we learn from Hall and
Holingshed:—Riccoboni highly compliments the English on opening their stage so well; but unfortunately
Cavendish, in his Life of Wolsey, calls it an excellent Interlude in Latine. About the same
time it was exhibited in German at Nuremburgh, by the celebrated Hanssach, the Shoemaker.

“But a character in the Taming of the Shrew is borrowed from the Trinummus, and no translation
of that was extant.”

Mr. Colman indeed hath been better employ’d: but if he had met with an old Comedy, called Supposes,
translated from Ariosto by George Gascoigne, he certainly would not have appealed to Plautus.
Thence Shakespeare borrowed this part of the Plot (as well as some of the phraseology), though
Theobald pronounces it his own invention: there likewise he found the quaint name of Petruchio.
My young Master and his Man exchange habits and characters, and persuade a Scenæse, as he is
called, to personate the Father, exactly as in the Taming of the Shrew, by the pretended danger
of his coming from Sienna to Ferrara, contrary to the order of the government.

Still, Shakespeare quotes a line from the Eunuch of Terence: by memory too, and, what is more,
“purposely alters it, in order to bring the sense within the compass of one line.”—This remark
was previous to Mr. Johnson’s; or indisputably it would not have been made at all.—“Our Authour
had this line from Lilly; which I mention that it may not be brought as an argument of his
learning.”

But how, cries an unprovoked Antagonist, can you take upon you to say that he had it from Lilly,
and not from Terence? I will answer for Mr. Johnson, who is above answering for himself.—Because
it is quoted as it appears in the Grammarian, and not as it appears in the Poet.—And thus we
have done with the purposed alteration. Udall likewise in his Floures for Latine speakyng,
gathered oute of Terence, 1560, reduces the passage to a single line, and subjoins a Translation.

We have hitherto supposed Shakespeare the Author of the Taming of the Shrew, but his property
in it is extremely disputable. I will give you my opinion, and the reasons on which it is founded.
I suppose then the present Play not originally the work of Shakespeare, but restored by him
to the Stage, with the whole Induction of the Tinker, and some other occasional improvements;
especially in the Character of Petruchio. It is very obvious that the Induction and the Play
were either the works of different hands, or written at a great interval of time: the former
is in our Author’s best manner, and the greater part of the latter in his worst, or even below
it. Dr. Warburton declares it to be certainly spurious: and without doubt, supposing it to
have been written by Shakespeare, it must have been one of his earliest productions; yet it
is not mentioned in the List of his Works by Meres in 1598.

I have met with a facetious piece of Sir John Harrington, printed in 1596 (and possibly there
may be an earlier Edition), called, The Metamorphosis of Ajax, where I suspect an allusion
to the old Play: “Read the booke of Taming a Shrew, which hath made a number of us so perfect,
that now every one can rule a Shrew in our Countrey, save he that hath hir.”—I am aware, a
modern Linguist may object that the word Book does not at present seem dramatick, but it was
once almost technically so: Gosson in his Schoole of Abuse, contayning a pleasaunt inuective
against Poets, Pipers, Players, Jesters, and such like Caterpillars of a Common-wealth, 1579,
mentions “twoo prose Bookes plaied at the Belsauage”; and Hearne tells us, in a Note at the
end of William of Worcester, that he had seen “a MS. in the nature of a Play or Interlude,
intitled, the Booke of Sir Thomas Moore.”

And in fact there is such an old anonymous Play in Mr. Pope’s List: “A pleasant conceited History,
called, The Taming of a Shrew—sundry times acted by the Earl of Pembroke his Servants.” Which
seems to have been republished by the Remains of that Company in 1607, when Shakespeare’s copy
appeared at the Black-Friars or the Globe.—Nor let this seem derogatory from the character
of our Poet. There is no reason to believe that he wanted to claim the Play as his own; it
was not even printed ’till some years after his death: but he merely revived it on his Stage
as a Manager.—Ravenscroft assures us that this was really the case with Titus Andronicus; which,
it may be observed, hath not Shakespeare’s name on the Title-page of the only Edition published
in his life-time. Indeed, from every internal mark, I have not the least doubt but this horrible
Piece was originally written by the Author of the Lines thrown into the mouth of the Player
in Hamlet, and of the Tragedy of Locrine: which likewise, from some assistance perhaps given
to his Friend, hath been unjustly and ignorantly charged upon Shakespeare.

But the sheet-anchor holds fast: Shakespeare himself hath left some Translations from Ovid.
The Epistles, says One, of Paris and Helen give a sufficient proof of his acquaintance with
that poet; and it may be concluded, says Another, that he was a competent judge of other Authors
who wrote in the same language.

This hath been the universal cry, from Mr. Pope himself to the Criticks of yesterday. Possibly,
however, the Gentlemen will hesitate a moment, if we tell them that Shakespeare was not the
Author of these Translations. Let them turn to a forgotten book, by Thomas Heywood, called
Britaines Troy, printed by W. Jaggard in 1609, Fol. and they will find these identical Epistles,
“which being so pertinent to our Historie,” says Heywood, “I thought necessarie to translate.”—How
then came they ascribed to Shakespeare? We will tell them that likewise. The same voluminous
Writer published an Apology for Actors, 4to. 1612, and in an Appendix directed to his new Printer,
Nic. Okes, he accuses his old One, Jaggard, of “taking the two Epistles of Paris to Helen and
Helen to Paris, and printing them in a less volume and under the name of Another:—but he was
much offended with Master Jaggard, that, altogether unknowne to him, he had presumed to make
so bold with his Name.” In the same work of Heywood are all the other Translations which have
been printed in the modern Editions of the Poems of Shakespeare.

You now hope for land: We have seen through little matters, but what must be done with a whole
book?—In 1751 was reprinted “A compendious or briefe examination of certayne ordinary complaints
of diuers of our Countrymen in these our days: which although they are in some parte unjust
and friuolous, yet are they all by way of Dialogue throughly debated and discussed by William
Shakespeare, Gentleman.” 8vo.

This extraordinary piece was originally published in 4to. 1581, and dedicated by the Author,
“To the most vertuous and learned Lady, his most deare and soveraigne Princesse, Elizabeth;
being inforced by her Majesties late and singular clemency in pardoning certayne his unduetifull
misdemeanour.” And by the modern Editors, to the late King; as “a Treatise composed by the
most extensive and fertile Genius that ever any age or nation produced.”

Here we join issue with the Writers of that excellent tho’ very unequal work, the Biographia
Britannica: “If,” say they, “this piece could be written by our Poet, it would be absolutely
decisive in the dispute about his learning; for many quotations appear in it from the Greek
and Latin Classicks.”

The concurring circumstances of the Name and the Misdemeanor, which is supposed to be the old
Story of Deer-stealing, seem fairly to challenge our Poet for the Author: but they hesitate.—His
claim may appear to be confuted by the date 1581, when Shakespeare was only Seventeen, and
the long experience which the Writer talks of.—But I will not keep you in suspense: the book
was not written by Shakespeare.

Strype, in his Annals, calls the Author SOME learned Man, and this gave me the first suspicion.
I knew very well that honest John (to use the language of Sir Thomas Bodley) did not waste
his time with such baggage books as Plays and Poems; yet I must suppose that he had heard of
the name of Shakespeare. After a while I met with the original Edition. Here in the Title-page,
and at the end of the Dedication, appear only the Initials, W. S. Gent., and presently I was
informed by Anthony Wood, that the book in question was written, not by William Shakespeare,
but by William Stafford, Gentleman: which at once accounted for the Misdemeanour in the Dedication.
For Stafford had been concerned at that time, and was indeed afterward, as Camden and the other
Annalists inform us, with some of the conspirators against Elizabeth; which he properly calls
his unduetifull behaviour.

I hope by this time that any One open to conviction may be nearly satisfied; and I will promise
to give you on this head very little more trouble.

The justly celebrated Mr. Warton hath favoured us, in his Life of Dr. Bathurst, with some hearsay
particulars concerning Shakespeare from the papers of Aubrey, which had been in the hands of
Wood; and I ought not to suppress them, as the last seems to make against my doctrine. They
came originally, I find, on consulting the MS., from one Mr. Beeston: and I am sure Mr. Warton,
whom I have the honour to call my Friend, and an Associate in the question, will be in no pain
about their credit.

“William Shakespeare’s Father was a Butcher,—while he was a Boy he exercised his Father’s trade,
but when he killed a Calf, he would do it in a high stile, and make a speech. This William
being inclined naturally to Poetry and Acting, came to London, I guess, about eighteen, and
was an Actor in one of the Playhouses, and did act exceedingly well. He began early to make
Essays in dramatique Poetry.—The humour of the Constable in the Midsummer Night’s Dream he
happened to take at Crendon in Bucks.—I think I have been told that he left near three hundred
pounds to a Sister.—He understood Latin pretty well, FOR he had been in his younger yeares
a Schoolmaster in the Country.”

I will be short in my animadversions; and take them in their order.

The account of the Trade of the Family is not only contrary to all other Tradition, but, as
it may seem, to the instrument from the Herald’s office, so frequently reprinted.—Shakespeare
most certainly went to London, and commenced Actor thro’ necessity, not natural inclination.—Nor
have we any reason to suppose that he did act exceedingly well. Rowe tells us from the information
of Betterton, who was inquisitive into this point, and had very early opportunities of Inquiry
from Sir W. Davenant, that he was no extraordinary Actor; and that the top of his performance
was the Ghost in his own Hamlet. Yet this Chef d’Oeuvre did not please: I will give you an
original stroke at it. Dr. Lodge, who was for ever pestering the town with Pamphlets, published
in the year 1596 Wits miserie, and the Worlds madnesse, discovering the Devils incarnat of
this Age. 4to. One of these Devils is Hate-virtue, or Sorrow for another mans good successe,
who, says the Doctor, is “a foule lubber, and looks as pale as the Visard of the Ghost, which
cried so miserably at the Theatre, like an Oister-wife, Hamlet revenge.” Thus you see Mr. Holt’s
supposed proof, in the Appendix to the late Edition, that Hamlet was written after 1597, or
perhaps 1602, will by no means hold good; whatever might be the case of the particular passage
on which it is founded.

Nor does it appear that Shakespeare did begin early to make Essays in Dramatique Poetry: the
Arraignment of Paris, 1584, which hath so often been ascribed to him on the credit of Kirkman
and Winstanley, was written by George Peele; and Shakespeare is not met with, even as an Assistant,
’till at least seven years afterward.—Nash, in his Epistle to the Gentlemen Students of both
Universities, prefixed to Greene’s Arcadia, 4to. black Letter, recommends his Friend, Peele,
“as the chiefe supporter of pleasance now living, the Atlas of Poetrie, and primus Verborum
Artifex: whose first increase, the Arraignment of Paris, might plead to their opinions his
pregnant dexteritie of wit, and manifold varietie of inuention.”

In the next place, unfortunately, there is neither such a Character as a Constable in the Midsummer
Night’s Dream: nor was the three hundred pounds Legacy to a Sister, but a Daughter.

And to close the whole, it is not possible, according to Aubrey himself, that Shakespeare could
have been some years a Schoolmaster in the Country: on which circumstance only the supposition
of his learning is professedly founded. He was not surely very young, when he was employed
to kill Calves, and he commenced Player about Eighteen!—The truth is that he left his Father,
for a Wife, a year sooner; and had at least two Children born at Stratford before he retired
from thence to London. It is therefore sufficiently clear that poor Anthony had too much reason
for his character of Aubrey: You will find it in his own Account of his Life, published by
Hearne, which I would earnestly recommend to any Hypochondriack;

“A pretender to Antiquities, roving, magotie-headed, and sometimes little better than crased:
and being exceedingly credulous, would stuff his many Letters sent to A.W. with folliries and
misinformations.” p. 577.

Thus much for the Learning of Shakespeare with respect to the ancient languages: indulge me
with an observation or two on his supposed knowledge of the modern ones, and I will promise
to release you.

“It is evident” we have been told, “that he was not unacquainted with the Italian”: but let
us inquire into the Evidence.

Certainly some Italian words and phrases appear in the Works of Shakespeare; yet if we had
nothing else to observe, their Orthography might lead us to suspect them to be not of the Writer’s
importation. But we can go further, and prove this.

When Pistol “cheers up himself with ends of verse,” he is only a copy of Hanniball Gonsaga,
who ranted on yielding himself a Prisoner to an English Captain in the Low Countries, as you
may read in an old Collection of Tales, called Wits, Fits, and Fancies,

    Si Fortuna me tormenta,
    Il speranza me contenta.

And Sir Richard Hawkins, in his Voyage to the South-Sea, 1593, throws out the same jingling
Distich on the loss of his Pinnace.

“Master Page, sit; good Master Page, sit; Proface. What you want in meat, we’ll have in drink,”
says Justice Shallow’s Fac totum, Davy, in the 2d Part of Henry the fourth.

Proface, Sir Thomas Hanmer observes to be Italian, from profaccia, much good may it do you.
Mr. Johnson rather thinks it a mistake for perforce. Sir Thomas however is right; yet it is
no argument for his Author’s Italian knowledge.

Old Heywood, the Epigrammatist, addressed his Readers long before,

    Readers, reade this thus: for Preface, Proface,
    Much good do it you, the poore repast here, &c.—Woorkes. Lond.
                4to. 1562.

And Dekker in his Play, If it be not good, the Diuel is in it (which is certainly true, for
it is full of Devils), makes Shackle-soule, in the character of Friar Rush, tempt his Brethren
with “choice of dishes,”

    To which proface; with blythe lookes sit yee.

Nor hath it escaped the quibbling manner of the Water-poet, in the title of a Poem prefixed
to his Praise of Hempseed: “A Preamble, Preatrot, Preagallop, Preapace, or Preface; and Proface,
my Masters, if your Stomacks serve.”

But the Editors are not contented without coining Italian. “Rivo, says the Drunkard,” is an
Expression of the madcap Prince of Wales; which Sir Thomas Hanmer corrects to Ribi, Drink away,
or again, as it should rather be translated. Dr. Warburton accedes to this; and Mr. Johnson
hath admitted it into his Text; but with an observation, that Rivo might possibly be the cant
of English Taverns. And so indeed it was: it occurs frequently in Marston. Take a quotation
from his Comedy of What you will, 1607:

    Musicke, Tobacco, Sacke, and Sleepe,
    The Tide of Sorrow backward keep:
    If thou art sad at others fate,
    Rivo drink deep, give care the mate.

In Love’s Labour Lost, Boyet calls Don Armado,

    ——A Spaniard that keeps here in Court,
    A Phantasme, a Monarcho.——

Here too Sir Thomas is willing to palm Italian upon us. We should read, it seems, Mammuccio,
a Mammet, or Puppet: Ital. Mammuccia. But the allusion is to a fantastical Character of the
time.—“Popular applause,” says Meres, “dooth nourish some, neither do they gape after any other
thing, but vaine praise and glorie,—as in our age Peter Shakerlye of Paules, and MONARCHO that
liued about the Court.” p. 178.

I fancy you will be satisfied with one more instance.

“Baccare, You are marvellous forward,” quoth Gremio to Petruchio in the Taming of the Shrew.

“But not so forward,” says Mr. Theobald, “as our Editors are indolent. This is a stupid corruption
of the press, that none of them have dived into. We must read Baccalare, as Mr. Warburton acutely
observed to me, by which the Italians mean, Thou ignorant, presumptuous Man.”—“Properly indeed,”
adds Mr. Heath, “a graduated Scholar, but ironically and sarcastically a pretender to Scholarship.”

This is admitted by the Editors and Criticks of every Denomination. Yet the word is neither
wrong, nor Italian: it was an old proverbial one, used frequently by John Heywood; who hath
made, what he pleases to call, Epigrams upon it.

Take two of them, such as they are,

    Backare, quoth Mortimer to his Sow:
    Went that Sow backe at that biddyng trowe you?

    Backare, quoth Mortimer to his sow: se
    Mortimers sow speakth as good latin as he.

Howel takes this from Heywood, in his Old Sawes and Adages: and Philpot introduces it into
the Proverbs collected by Camden.

We have but few observations concerning Shakespeare’s knowledge of the Spanish tongue. Dr.
Grey indeed is willing to suppose that the plot of Romeo and Juliet may be borrowed from a
COMEDY of Lopes de Vega. But the Spaniard, who was certainly acquainted with Bandello, hath
not only changed the Catastrophe, but the names of the Characters. Neither Romeo nor Juliet,
neither Montague nor Capulet, appears in this performance: and how came they to the knowledge
of Shakespeare?—Nothing is more certain than that he chiefly followed the Translation by Painter
from the French of Boisteau, and hence arise the Deviations from Bandello’s original Italian.
It seems, however, from a passage in Ames’s Typographical Antiquities, that Painter was not
the only Translator of this popular Story: and it is possible, therefore, that Shakespeare
might have other assistance.

In the Induction to the Taming of the Shrew, the Tinker attempts to talk Spanish: and consequently
the Author himself was acquainted with it.

    Paucas pallabris, let the World slide, Sessa.

But this is a burlesque on Hieronymo; the piece of Bombast that I have mentioned to you before:

    What new device have they devised, trow?
    Pocas pallabras, &c.——

Mr. Whalley tells us, “the Author of this piece hath the happiness to be at this time unknown,
the remembrance of him having perished with himself”: Philips and others ascribe it to one
William Smith: but I take this opportunity of informing him that it was written by Thomas Kyd;
if he will accept the authority of his Contemporary, Heywood.

More hath been said concerning Shakespeare’s acquaintance with the French language. In the
Play of Henry the fifth, we have a whole Scene in it, and in other places it occurs familiarly
in the Dialogue.

We may observe in general, that the early Editions have not half the quantity; and every sentence,
or rather every word, most ridiculously blundered. These, for several reasons, could not possibly
be published by the Author; and it is extremely probable that the French ribaldry was at first
inserted by a different hand, as the many additions most certainly were after he had left the
Stage.—Indeed, every friend to his memory will not easily believe that he was acquainted with
the Scene between Catharine and the old Gentlewoman; or surely he would not have admitted such
obscenity and nonsense.

Mr. Hawkins, in the Appendix to Mr. Johnson’s Edition, hath an ingenious observation to prove
that Shakespeare, supposing the French to be his, had very little knowledge of the language.

“Est-il impossible d’eschapper la force de ton Bras?” says a Frenchman.—“Brass, cur?” replies
Pistol.

“Almost any one knows that the French word Bras is pronounced Brau; and what resemblance of
sound does this bear to Brass?”

Mr. Johnson makes a doubt whether the pronunciation of the French language may not be changed
since Shakespeare’s time; “if not,” says he, “it may be suspected that some other man wrote
the French scenes”: but this does not appear to be the case, at least in this termination,
from the rules of the Grammarians, or the practice of the Poets. I am certain of the former
from the French Alphabet of De la Mothe, and the Orthoepia Gallica of John Eliot; and of the
latter from the Rhymes of Marot, Ronsard, and Du Bartas.—Connections of this kind were very
common. Shakespeare himself assisted Ben. Jonson in his Sejanus, as it was originally written;
and Fletcher in his Two noble Kinsmen.

But what if the French scene were occasionally introduced into every Play on this Subject?
and perhaps there were more than one before our Poet’s.—In Pierce  Penilesse his Supplication
to the Diuell, 4to. 1592 (which, it seems, from the Epistle to the Printer, was not the first
Edition), the Author, Nash, exclaims, “What a glorious thing it is to have Henry the fifth
represented on the Stage leading the French King prisoner, and forcing both him and the Dolphin
to sweare fealty!”—And it appears from the Jests of the famous Comedian, Tarlton, 4to. 1611,
that he had been particularly celebrated in the Part of the Clown in Henry the fifth; but no
such Character exists in the Play of Shakespeare.—Henry the sixth hath ever been doubted; and
a passage in the above-quoted piece of Nash may give us reason to believe it was previous to
our Author. “How would it have joyed braue Talbot (the terror of the French) to thinke that
after he had lyen two hundred yeare in his Toomb, he should triumph again on the Stage; and
haue his bones new embalmed with the teares of ten thousand spectators at least (at severall
times) who, in the Tragedian that represents his person, imagine they behold him fresh bleeding.”—I
have no doubt but Henry the sixth had the same Author with Edward the third, which hath been
recovered to the world in Mr. Capell’s Prolusions.

It hath been observed that the Giant of Rabelais is sometimes alluded to by Shakespeare: and
in his time no translation was extant.—But the Story was in every one’s hand.

In a Letter by one Laneham, or Langham, for the name is written differently, concerning the
Entertainment at Killingwoorth Castle, printed 1575, we have a list of the vulgar Romances
of the age, “King Arthurz book, Huon of Burdeaus, Friar Rous, Howleglass, and GARGANTUA.” Meres
mentions him as equally hurtful to young minds with the Four Sons of Aymon, and the Seven Champions.
And John Taylor hath him likewise in his catalogue of Authors, prefixed to Sir Gregory Nonsence.

But to come to a conclusion, I will give you an irrefragable argument that Shakespeare did
not understand two very common words in the French and Latin languages.

According to the Articles of agreement between the Conqueror Henry and the King of France,
the latter was to stile the former (in the corrected French of the modern Editions) “Nostre
tres cher filz Henry Roy d’Angleterre; and in Latin, Præclarissimus Filius, &c.” “What,” says
Dr. Warburton, “is tres cher in French præclarissimus in Latin! we should read præcarissimus.”—This
appears to be exceedingly true; but how came the blunder? It is a typographical one in Holingshed,
which Shakespeare copied; but must indisputably have corrected, had he been acquainted with
the languages.—“Our said Father, during his life, shall name, call, and write us in French
in this maner: Nostre tres chier filz, Henry Roy d’Engleterre—and in Latine in this maner:
Præclarissimus filius noster.” Edit. 1587, p. 574.

To corroborate this instance, let me observe to you, though it be nothing further to the purpose,
that another error of the same kind hath been the source of a mistake in an historical passage
of our Author; which hath ridiculously troubled the Criticks.

Richard the third harangues his army before the Battle of Bosworth:

    Remember whom ye are to cope withal,
    A sort of vagabonds, of rascals, runaways—
    And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
    Long kept in Britaine at our Mother’s cost,
    A milksop, &c.—

“Our Mother,” Mr. Theobald perceives to be wrong, and Henry was somewhere secreted on the Continent:
he reads therefore, and all the Editors after him,

    Long kept in Bretagne at his mother’s cost.

But give me leave to transcribe a few more lines from Holingshed, and you will find at once
that Shakespeare had been there before me:—“Ye see further, how a companie of traitors, theeves,
outlaws, and runnagates be aiders and partakers of his feat and enterprise.—And to begin with
the erle of Richmond, captaine of this rebellion, he is a Welsh milksop—brought up by my Moother’s
meanes and mine, like a captive in a close cage, in the court of Francis duke of Britaine.” p. 756.

Holingshed copies this verbatim from his brother chronicler Hall, Edit. 1548, fol. 54; but
his Printer hath given us by accident the word Moother instead of Brother; as it is in the
Original, and ought to be in Shakespeare.

I hope, my good Friend, you have by this time acquitted our great Poet of all piratical depredations
on the Ancients, and are ready to receive my Conclusion.—He remembered perhaps enough of his
school-boy learning to put the Hig, hag, hog, into the mouth of Sir Hugh Evans; and might pick
up in the Writers of the time, or the course of his conversation, a familiar phrase or two
of French or Italian: but his Studies were most demonstratively confined to Nature and his
own Language.

In the course of this disquisition, you have often smiled at “all such reading as was never
read”: and possibly I may have indulged it too far: but it is the reading necessary for a Comment
on Shakespeare. Those who apply solely to the Ancients for this purpose, may with equal wisdom
study the TALMUD for an Exposition of TRISTRAM SHANDY. Nothing but an intimate acquaintance
with the Writers of the time, who are frequently of no other value, can point out his allusions,
and ascertain his Phraseology. The Reformers of his Text are for ever equally positive, and
equally wrong. The Cant of the Age, a provincial Expression, an obscure Proverb, an obsolete
Custom, a Hint at a Person or a Fact no longer remembered, hath continually defeated the best
of our Guessers: You must not suppose me to speak at random, when I assure you that, from some
forgotten book or other, I can demonstrate this to you in many hundred Places; and I almost
wish that I had not been persuaded into a different Employment.

Tho’ I have as much of the Natale Solum about me as any man whatsoever; yet, I own, the Primrose
Path is still more pleasing than the Fosse or the Watling Street:

    Age cannot wither it, nor custom stale
    It’s infinite variety.——

And when I am fairly rid of the Dust of topographical Antiquity, which hath continued much
longer about me than I expected, you may very probably be troubled again with the ever fruitful
Subject of SHAKESPEARE and his COMMENTATORS. 1777.

Preface.

The following sheets were written in consequence of a friendly conversation, turning by some
chance upon the Character of FALSTAFF, wherein the Writer, maintaining, contrary to the general
Opinion, that this Character was not intended to be shewn as a Coward, he was challenged to
deliver and support that Opinion from the Press, with an engagement, now he fears forgotten,
for it was three years ago, that he should be answered thro’ the same channel: Thus stimulated,
these papers were almost wholly written in a very short time, but not without those attentions,
whether successful or not, which seemed necessary to carry them beyond the Press into the hands
of the Public. From the influence of the foregoing circumstances it is, that the Writer has
generally assumed rather the character and tone of an Advocate than of an Inquirer;—though
if he had not first inquired and been convinced, he should never have attempted to have amused
either himself or others with the subject.—The impulse of the occasion, however, being passed,
the papers were thrown by, and almost forgotten: But having been looked into of late by some
friends, who, observing that the Writer had not enlarged so far for the sake of FALSTAFF alone,
but that the Argument was made subservient to Critical amusement, persuaded him to revise and
convey it to the Press. This has been accordingly done, though he fears something too hastily,
as he found it proper to add, while the papers were in the course of printing, some considerations
on the Whole Character of FALSTAFF; which ought to have been accompanied by a slight reform
of a few preceding passages, which may seem, in consequence of this addition, to contain too
favourable a representation of his Morals.

The vindication of FALSTAFF’S Courage is truly no otherwise the object than some old fantastic
Oak, or grotesque Rock, may be the object of a morning’s ride; yet being proposed as such,
may serve to limit the distance, and shape the course: The real object is Exercise, and the
Delight which a rich, beautiful, picturesque, and perhaps unknown Country, may excite from
every side. Such an Exercise may admit of some little excursion, keeping however the Road in
view; but seems to exclude every appearance of labour and of toil.—Under the impression of
such Feelings, the Writer has endeavoured to preserve to his Text a certain lightness of air,
and chearfulness of tone; but is sensible, however, that the manner of discussion does not
every where, particularly near the commencement, sufficiently correspond with his design.—If
the Book shall be fortunate enough to obtain another Impression, a separation may be made;
and such of the heavier parts as cannot be wholly dispensed with, sink to their more proper
station,—a Note.

He is fearful likewise that he may have erred in the other extreme; and that having thought
himself intitled, even in argument, to a certain degree of playful discussion, may have pushed
it, in a few places, even to levity. This error might be yet more easily reformed than the
other.—The Book is perhaps, as it stands, too bulky for the subject; but if the Reader knew
how many pressing considerations, as it grew into size, the Author resisted, which yet seemed
intitled to be heard, he would the more readily excuse him.

The whole is a mere Experiment, and the Writer considers it as such: It may have the advantages,
but it is likewise attended with all the difficulties and dangers, of Novelty.

On The Dramatic Character Of Sir John Falstaff.

The ideas which I have formed concerning the Courage and Military Character of the Dramatic
Sir John Falstaff are so different from those which I find generally to prevail in the world,
that I shall take the liberty of stating my sentiments on the subject; in hope that some person,
as unengaged as myself, will either correct and reform my error in this respect; or, joining
himself to my opinion, redeem me from, what I may call, the reproach of singularity.

I am to avow, then, that I do not clearly discern that Sir John Falstaff deserves to bear the
character so generally given him of an absolute Coward; or, in other words, that I do not conceive
Shakespeare ever meant to make Cowardice an essential part of his constitution.

I know how universally the contrary opinion prevails; and I know what respect and deference
are due to the public voice. But if to the avowal of this singularity I add all the reasons
that have led me to it, and acknowledge myself to be wholly in the judgment of the public,
I shall hope to avoid the censure of too much forwardness or indecorum.

It must, in the first place, be admitted that the appearances in this case are singularly strong
and striking; and so they had need be, to become the ground of so general a censure. We see
this extraordinary Character, almost in the first moment of our acquaintance with him, involved
in circumstances of apparent dishonour; and we hear him familiarly called Coward by his most
intimate companions. We see him, on occasion of the robbery at Gads-Hill, in the very act of
running away from the Prince and Poins; and we behold him, on another of more honourable obligation,
in open day light, in battle, and acting in his profession as a Soldier, escaping from Douglas
even out of the world as it were; counterfeiting death, and deserting his very existence; and
we find him, on the former occasion, betrayed into those lies and braggadocioes which are the
usual concomitants of Cowardice in Military men, and pretenders to valour. These are not only
in themselves strong circumstances, but they are moreover thrust forward, prest upon our notice
as the subject of our mirth, as the great business of the scene: No wonder, therefore, that
the word should go forth that Falstaff exhibited as a character of Cowardice and dishonour.

What there is to the contrary of this, it is my business to discover. Much, I think, will presently
appear; but it lies so dispersed, is so latent, and so purposely obscured, that the reader
must have some patience whilst I collect it into one body, and make it the object of a steady
and regular contemplation.

But what have we to do, may my readers exclaim, with principles so latent, so obscured? In
Dramatic composition the Impression is the Fact; and the Writer, who, meaning to impress one
thing, has impressed another, is unworthy of observation.

It is a very unpleasant thing to have, in the first setting out, so many and so strong prejudices
to contend with. All that one can do in such case, is, to pray the reader to have a little
patience in the commencement; and to reserve his censure, if it must pass, for the conclusion.
Under his gracious allowance, therefore, I presume to declare it as my opinion, that Cowardice
is not the Impression which the whole character of Falstaff is calculated to make on the minds
of an unprejudiced audience; tho’ there be, I confess, a great deal of something in the composition
likely enough to puzzle, and consequently to mislead the Understanding.—The reader will perceive
that I distinguish between mental Impressions and the Understanding.—I wish to avoid every
thing that looks like subtlety and refinement; but this is a distinction which we all comprehend.—There
are none of us unconscious of certain feelings or sensations of mind which do not seem to have
passed thro’ the Understanding; the effects, I suppose, of some secret influences from without,
acting upon a certain mental sense, and producing feelings and passions in just correspondence
to the force and variety of those influences on the one hand, and to the quickness of our sensibility
on the other. Be the cause, however, what it may, the fact is undoubtedly so; which is all
I am concerned in. And it is equally a fact, which every man’s experience may avouch, that
the Understanding and those feelings are frequently at variance. The latter often arise from
the most minute circumstances, and frequently from such as the Understanding cannot estimate,
or even recognize; whereas the Understanding delights in abstraction, and in general propositions;
which, however true considered as such, are very seldom, I had like to have said never, perfectly
applicable to any particular case. And hence, among other causes, it is, that we often condemn
or applaud characters and actions on the credit of some logical process, while our hearts revolt,
and would fain lead us to a very different conclusion.

The Understanding seems for the most part to take cognizance of actions only, and from these
to infer motives and character; but the sense we have been speaking of proceeds in a contrary
course; and determines of actions from certain first principles of character, which seem wholly
out of the reach of the Understanding. We cannot indeed do otherwise than admit that there
must be distinct principles of character in every distinct individual: The manifest variety
even in the minds of infants will oblige us to this. But what are these first principles of
character? Not the objects, I am persuaded, of the Understanding; and yet we take as strong
Impressions of them as if we could compare and assort them in a syllogism. We often love or
hate at first sight; and indeed, in general, dislike or approve by some secret reference to
these principles; and we judge even of conduct, not from any idea of abstract good or evil
in the nature of actions, but by referring those actions to a supposed original character in
the man himself. I do not mean that we talk thus; we could not indeed, if we would, explain
ourselves in detail on this head; we can neither account for Impressions and passions, nor
communicate them to others by words: Tones and looks will sometimes convey the passion strangely,
but the Impression is incommunicable. The same causes may produce it indeed at the same time
in many, but it is the separate possession of each, and not in its nature transferable: It
is an imperfect sort of instinct, and proportionably dumb.—We might indeed, if we chose it,
candidly confess to one another that we are greatly swayed by these feelings, and are by no
means so rational in all points as we could wish; but this would be a betraying of the interests
of that high faculty, the Understanding, which we so value ourselves upon, and which we more
peculiarly call our own. This, we think, must not be; and so we huddle up the matter, concealing
it as much as possible, both from ourselves and others. In Books indeed, wherein character,
motive, and action, are all alike subjected to the Understanding, it is generally a very clear
case; and we make decisions compounded of them all: And thus we are willing to approve of Candide,
tho’ he kills my Lord the Inquisitor, and runs thro’ the body the Baron of Thunder-ten-tronckh,
the son of his patron, and the brother of his beloved Cunégonde: But in real life, I believe,
my Lords the Judges would be apt to inform the Gentlemen of the Jury that my Lord the Inquisitor
was ill killed; as Candide did not proceed on the urgency of the moment, but on the speculation
only of future evil. And indeed this clear perception, in Novels and Plays, of the union of
character and action not seen in nature, is the principal defect of such compositions, and
what renders them but ill pictures of human life, and wretched guides of conduct.

But if there was one man in the world who could make a more perfect draught of real nature,
and steal such Impressions on his audience, without their special notice, as should keep their
hold in spite of any error of their Understanding, and should thereupon venture to introduce
an apparent incongruity of character and action, for ends which I shall presently endeavour
to explain; such an imitation would be worth our nicest curiosity and attention. But in such
a case as this, the reader might expect that he should find us all talking the language of
the Understanding only; that is, censuring the action with very little conscientious investigation
even of that; and transferring the censure, in every odious colour, to the actor himself; how
much soever our hearts and affections might secretly revolt: For as to the Impression, we have
already observed that it has no tongue; nor is its operation and influence likely to be made
the subject of conference and communication.

It is not to the Courage only of Falstaff that we think these observations will apply: No part
whatever of his character seems to be fully settled in our minds; at least there is something
strangely incongruous in our discourse and affections concerning him. We all like Old Jack;
yet, by some strange perverse fate, we all abuse him, and deny him the possession of any one
single good or respectable quality. There is something extraordinary in this: It must be a
strange art in Shakespeare which can draw our liking and good will towards so offensive an
object. He has wit, it will be said; chearfulness and humour of the most characteristic and
captivating sort. And is this enough? Is the humour and gaiety of vice so very captivating?
Is the wit, characteristic of baseness and every ill quality, capable of attaching the heart
and winning the affections? Or does not the apparency of such humour, and the flashes of such
wit, by more strongly disclosing the deformity of character, but the more effectually excite
our hatred and contempt of the man? And yet this is not our feeling of Falstaff’s character.
When he has ceased to amuse us, we find no emotions of disgust; we can scarcely forgive the
ingratitude of the Prince in the new-born virtue of the King, and we curse the severity of
that poetic justice which consigns our old good-natured companion to the custody of the warden,
and the dishonours of the Fleet.

I am willing, however, to admit that if a Dramatic writer will but preserve to any character
the qualities of a strong mind, particularly Courage and ability, that it will be afterwards
no very difficult task (as I may have occasion to explain) to discharge that disgust which
arises from vicious manners; and even to attach us (if such character should contain any quality
productive of chearfulness and laughter) to the cause and subject of our mirth with some degree
of affection.

But the question which I am to consider is of a very different nature: It is a question of
fact, and concerning a quality which forms the basis of every respectable character; a quality
which is the very essence of a Military man; and which is held up to us, in almost every Comic
incident of the Play, as the subject of our observation. It is strange then that it should
now be a question, whether Falstaff is or is not a man of Courage; and whether we do in fact
contemn him for the want, or respect him for the possession of that quality: And yet I believe
the reader will find that he has by no means decided this question, even for himself.—If then
it should turn out that this difficulty has arisen out of the Art of Shakespeare, who has contrived
to make secret Impressions upon us of Courage, and to preserve those Impressions in favour
of a character which was to be held up for sport and laughter on account of actions of apparent
Cowardice and dishonour, we shall have less occasion to wonder, as Shakespeare is a Name which
contains All of Dramatic artifice and genius.

If in this place the reader shall peevishly and prematurely object that the observations and
distinctions I have laboured to establish are wholly unapplicable; he being himself unconscious
of ever having received any such Impression; what can be done in so nice a case, but to refer
him to the following pages; by the number of which he may judge how very much I respect his
objection, and by the variety of those proofs which I shall employ to induce him to part with
it; and to recognize in its stead certain feelings, concealed and covered over perhaps, but
not erazed, by time, reasoning, and authority?

In the mean while, it may not perhaps be easy for him to resolve how it comes about, that,
whilst we look upon Falstaff as a character of the like nature with that of Parolles or of
Bobadil, we should preserve for him a great degree of respect and good-will, and yet feel the
highest disdain and contempt of the others, tho’ they are all involved in similar situations.
The reader, I believe, would wonder extremely to find either Parolles or Bobadil possess himself
in danger: What then can be the cause that we are not at all surprized at the gaiety and ease
of Falstaff under the most trying circumstances; and that we never think of charging Shakespeare
with departing, on this account, from the truth and coherence of character? Perhaps, after
all, the real character of Falstaff may be different from his apparent one; and possibly this
difference between reality and appearance, whilst it accounts at once for our liking and our
censure, may be the true point of humour in the character, and the source of all our laughter
and delight. We may chance to find, if we will but examine a little into the nature of those
circumstances which have accidentally involved him, that he was intended to be drawn as a character
of much Natural courage and resolution; and be obliged thereupon to repeal those decisions
which may have been made upon the credit of some general tho’ unapplicable propositions; the
common source of error in other and higher matters. A little reflection may perhaps bring us
round again to the point of our departure, and unite our Understandings to our instinct.—Let
us then for a moment suspend at least our decisions, and candidly and coolly inquire if Sir
John Falstaff be, indeed, what he has so often been called by critic and commentator, male
and female,—a Constitutional Coward.

It will scarcely be possible to consider the Courage of Falstaff as wholly detached from his
other qualities: But I write not professedly of any part of his character, but what is included
under the term, Courage; however, I may incidentally throw some lights on the whole.—The reader
will not need to be told that this Inquiry will resolve itself of course into a Critique on
the genius, the arts, and the conduct of Shakespeare: For what is Falstaff, what Lear, what
Hamlet, or Othello, but different modifications of Shakespeare’s thought? It is true that this
Inquiry is narrowed almost to a single point: But general criticism is as uninstructive as
it is easy: Shakespeare deserves to be considered in detail;—a task hitherto unattempted.

It may be proper, in the first place, to take a short view of all the parts of Falstaff’s Character,
and then proceed to discover, if we can, what Impressions, as to Courage or Cowardice, he had
made on the persons of the Drama: After which we will examine, in course, such evidence, either
of persons or facts, as are relative to the matter; and account as we may for those appearances
which seem to have led to the opinion of his Constitutional Cowardice.

The scene of the robbery, and the disgraces attending it, which stand first in the Play, and
introduce us to the knowledge of Falstaff, I shall beg leave (as I think this scene to have
been the source of much unreasonable prejudice) to reserve till we are more fully acquainted
with the whole character of Falstaff; and I shall therefore hope that the reader will not for
a time advert to it, or to the jests of the Prince or of Poins in consequence of that unlucky
adventure.

In drawing out the parts of Falstaff’s character, with which I shall begin this Inquiry, I
shall take the liberty of putting Constitutional bravery into his composition; but the reader
will be pleased to consider what I shall say in that respect as spoken hypothetically for the
present, to be retained, or discharged out of it, as he shall finally determine. This quality,
so accompanied, led him probably very early into life, and made him highly acceptable to society;
so acceptable, as to make it seem unnecessary for him to acquire any other virtue. He had from
nature, as I presume to say, a spirit of boldness and enterprise; which in a Military age,
tho’ employment was only occasional, kept him always above contempt, secured him an honourable
reception among the Great, and suited best both his particular mode of humour and of vice.

It may not possibly be wholly amiss to remark in this place, that if Sir John Falstaff had
possessed any of that Cardinal quality, Prudence, alike the guardian of virtue and the protector
of vice; that quality, from the possession or the absence of which, the character and fate
of men in this life take, I think, their colour, and not from real vice or virtue; if he had
considered his wit not as principal but accessary only; as the instrument of power, and not
as power itself; if he had had much baseness to hide, if he had had less of what may be called
mellowness or good humour, or less of health and spirit; if he had spurred and rode the world
with his wit, instead of suffering the world, boys and all, to ride him;—he might, without
any other essential change, have been the admiration and not the jest of mankind:—Or if he
had lived in our day, and instead of attaching himself to one Prince, had renounced all friendship
and all attachment, and had let himself out as the ready instrument and Zany of every successive
Minister, he might possibly have acquired the high honour of marking his shroud or decorating
his coffin with the living rays of an Irish at least, if not a British Coronet: Instead of
which, tho’ enforcing laughter from every disposition, he appears, now, as such a character
which every wise man will pity and avoid, every knave will censure, and every fool will fear:
And accordingly Shakespeare, ever true to nature, has made Harry desert, and Lancaster censure
him:—He dies where he lived, in a Tavern, broken-hearted, without a friend; and his final exit
is given up to the derision of fools. Nor has his misfortunes ended here; the scandal arising
from the misapplication of his wit and talents seems immortal. He has met with as little justice
or mercy from his final judges the critics, as from his companions of the Drama. With our cheeks
still red with laughter, we ungratefully as unjustly censure him as a coward by nature, and
a rascal upon principle: Tho’, if this were so, it might be hoped, for our own credit, that
we should behold him rather with disgust and disapprobation than with pleasure and delight.

But to remember our question—Is Falstaff a constitutional coward?

With respect to every infirmity, except that of Cowardice, we must take him as at the period
in which he is represented to us. If we see him dissipated, fat,—it is enough;—we have nothing
to do with his youth, when he might perhaps have been modest, chaste, “and not an Eagle’s talon
in the waist.” But Constitutional  Courage extends to a man’s whole life, makes a part of his
nature, and is not to be taken up or deserted like a mere Moral quality. It is true, there
is a Courage founded upon principle, or rather a principle independent of Courage, which will
sometimes operate in spite of nature; a principle which prefers death to shame, but which always
refers itself, in conformity to its own nature, to the prevailing modes of honour, and the
fashions of the age.—But Natural courage is another thing: It is independent of opinion; It
adapts itself to occasions, preserves itself under every shape, and can avail itself of flight
as well as of action.—In the last war, some Indians of America perceiving a line of Highlanders
to keep their station under every disadvantage, and under a fire which they could not effectually
return, were so miserably mistaken in our points of honour as to conjecture, from observation
on the habit and stability of those troops, that they were indeed the women of England, who
wanted courage to run away.—That Courage which is founded in nature and constitution, Falstaff,
as I presume to say, possessed;—but I am ready to allow that the principle already mentioned,
so far as it refers to reputation only, began with every other Moral quality to lose its hold
on him in his old age; that is, at the time of life in which he is represented to us; a period,
as it should seem, approaching to seventy.—The truth is that he had drollery enough to support
himself in credit without the point of honour, and had address enough to make even the preservation
of his life a point of drollery. The reader knows I allude, tho’ something prematurely, to
his fictitious death in the battle of Shrewsbury. This incident is generally construed to the
disadvantage of Falstaff: It is a transaction which bears the external marks of Cowardice:
It is also aggravated to the spectators by the idle tricks of the Player, who practises on
this occasion all the attitudes and wild apprehensions of fear; more ambitious, as it should
seem, of representing a Caliban than a Falstaff; or indeed rather a poor unwieldy miserable
Tortoise than either.—The painful Comedian lies spread out on his belly, and not only covers
himself all over with his robe as with a shell, but forms a kind of round Tortoise-back by
I know not what stuffing or contrivance; in addition to which, he alternately lifts up, and
depresses, and dodges his head, and looks to the one side and to the other, so much with the
piteous aspect of that animal, that one would not be sorry to see the ambitious imitator calipashed
in his robe, and served up for the entertainment of the gallery.—There is no hint for this
mummery in the Play: Whatever there may be of dishonour in Falstaff’s conduct, he neither does
or says any thing on this occasion which indicates terror or disorder of mind: On the contrary,
this very act is a proof of his having all his wits about him, and is a stratagem, such as
it is, not improper for a buffoon, whose fate would be singularly hard, if he should not be
allowed to avail himself of his Character when it might serve him in most stead. We must remember,
in extenuation, that the executive, the destroying hand of Douglas was over him: “It was time
to counterfeit, or that hot termagant Scot had paid him scot and lot too.” He had but one choice;
he was obliged to pass thro’ the ceremony of dying either in jest or in earnest; and we shall
not be surprized at the event, when we remember his propensities to the former.—Life (and especially
the life of Falstaff) might be a jest; but he could see no joke whatever in dying: To be chopfallen
was, with him, to lose both life and character together: He saw the point of honour, as well
as every thing else, in ridiculous lights, and began to renounce its tyranny.

But I am too much in advance, and must retreat for more advantage. I should not forget how
much opinion is against me, and that I am to make my way by the mere force and weight of evidence;
without which I must not hope to possess myself of the reader: No address, no insinuation will
avail. To this evidence, then, I now resort. The Courage of Falstaff is my Theme: And no passage
will I spare from which any thing can be inferred as relative to this point. It would be as
vain as injudicious to attempt concealment: How could I escape detection? The Play is in every
one’s memory, and a single passage remembered in detection would tell, in the mind of the partial
observer, for fifty times its real weight. Indeed this argument would be void of all excuse
if it declined any difficulty; if it did not meet, if it did not challenge opposition. Every
passage then shall be produced from which, in my opinion, any inference, favourable or unfavourable,
has or can be drawn;—but not methodically, not formally, as texts for comment, but as chance
or convenience shall lead the way; but in what shape soever, they shall be always distinguishingly
marked for notice. And so with that attention to truth and candour which ought to accompany
even our lightest amusements I proceed to offer such proof as the case will admit, that Courage
is a part of Falstaff’s Character, that it belonged to his constitution, and was manifest in
the conduct and practice of his whole life.

Let us then examine, as a source of very authentic information, what Impressions Sir John Falstaff
had made on the characters of the Drama; and in what estimation he is supposed to stand with
mankind in general as to the point of Personal Courage. But the quotations we make for this
or other purposes, must, it is confessed, be lightly touched, and no particular passage strongly
relied on, either in his favour or against him. Every thing which he himself says, or is said
of him, is so phantastically discoloured by humour, or folly, or jest, that we must for the
most part look to the spirit rather than the letter of what is uttered, and rely at last only
on a combination of the whole.

We will begin then, if the reader pleases, by inquiring what Impression the very Vulgar had
taken of Falstaff. If it is not that of Cowardice, be it what else it may, that of a man of
violence, or a Ruffian in years, as Harry calls him, or any thing else, it answers my purpose;
how insignificant soever the characters or incidents to be first produced may otherwise appear;—for
these Impressions must have been taken either from personal knowledge and observation; or,
what will do better for my purpose, from common fame. Altho’ I must admit some part of this
evidence will appear so weak and trifling that it certainly ought not to be produced but in
proof Impression only.

The Hostess Quickly employs two officers to arrest Falstaff: On the mention of his name, one
of them immediately observes, “that it may chance to cost some of them their lives, for that
he will stab.”—“Alas a day,” says the hostess, “take heed of him, he cares not what mischief
he doth; if his weapon be out, he will foin like any devil; He will spare neither man, woman,
or child.” Accordingly, we find that when they lay hold on him he resists to the utmost of
his power, and calls upon Bardolph, whose arms are at liberty, to draw. “Away, varlets, draw
Bardolph, cut me off the villain’s head, throw the quean in the kennel.” The officers cry,
a rescue, a rescue! But the Chief Justice comes in and the scuffle ceases. In another scene,
his wench Doll Tearsheet asks him “when he will leave fighting ... and patch up his old body
for heaven.” This is occasioned by his drawing his rapier, on great provocation, and driving
Pistol, who is drawn likewise, down stairs, and hurting him in the shoulder. To drive Pistol
was no great feat; nor do I mention it as such; but upon this occasion it was necessary. “A
Rascal bragging slave,” says he, “the rogue fled from me like quicksilver”: Expressions which,
as they remember the cowardice of Pistol, seem to prove that Falstaff did not value himself
on the adventure. Even something may be drawn from Davy, Shallow’s serving man, who calls Falstaff,
in ignorant admiration, the man of war. I must observe here, and I beg the reader will notice
it, that there is not a single expression dropt by these people, or either of Falstaff’s followers,
from which may be inferred the least suspicion of Cowardice in his character; and this is I
think such an implied negation as deserves considerable weight.

But to go a little higher, if, indeed, to consider Shallow’s opinion be to go higher: It is
from him, however, that we get the earliest account of Falstaff. He remembers him a Page to
Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk: “He broke,” says he, “Schoggan’s head at the Court-Gate when
he was but a crack thus high.” Shallow, throughout, considers him as a great Leader and Soldier,
and relates this fact as an early indication only of his future Prowess. Shallow, it is true,
is a very ridiculous character; but he picked up these Impressions somewhere; and he picked
up none of a contrary tendency.—I want at present only to prove that Falstaff stood well in
the report of common fame as to this point; and he was now near seventy years of age, and had
passed in a Military line thro’ the active part of his life. At this period common fame may
be well considered as the seal of his character; a seal which ought not perhaps to be broke
open on the evidence of any future transaction.

But to proceed. Lord Bardolph was a man of the world, and of sense and observation. He informs
Northumberland, erroneously indeed, that Percy had beaten the King at Shrewsbury. “The King,”
according to him, “was wounded; the Prince of Wales and the two Blunts slain, certain Nobles,
whom he names, had escaped by flight, and the Brawn Sir John Falstaff was taken prisoner.”
But how came Falstaff into this list? Common fame had put him there. He is singularly obliged
to Common fame.—But if he had not been a Soldier of repute, if he had not been brave as well
as fat, if he had been mere brawn, it would have been more germane to the matter if this lord
had put him down among the baggage or the provender. The fact seems to be that there is a real
consequence about Sir John Falstaff which is not brought forward: We see him only in his familiar
hours; we enter the tavern with Hal and Poins; we join in the laugh and take a pride to gird
at him: But there may be a great deal of truth in what he himself writes to the Prince, that
tho’ he be “Jack Falstaff with his Familiars, he is SIR JOHN with the rest of Europe.” It has
been remarked, and very truly I believe, that no man is a hero in the eye of his valet-de-chambre;
and thus it is, we are witnesses only of Falstaff’s weakness and buffoonery; our acquaintance
is with Jack Falstaff, Plump Jack, and Sir John Paunch; but if we would look for Sir John Falstaff,
we must put on, as Bunyan would have expressed it, the spectacles of observation. With respect,
for instance, to his Military command at Shrewsbury, nothing appears on the surface but the
Prince’s familiarly saying, in the tone usually assumed when speaking of Falstaff, “I will
procure this fat rogue a Charge of foot”; and in another place, “I will procure thee Jack a
Charge of foot; meet me to-morrow in the Temple Hall.” Indeed we might venture to infer from
this, that a Prince of so great ability, whose wildness was only external and assumed, would
not have procured, in so nice and critical a conjuncture, a Charge of foot for a known Coward.
But there was more it seems in the case: We now find from this report, to which Lord Bardolph
had given full credit, that the world had its eye upon Falstaff as an officer of merit, whom
it expected to find in the field, and whose fate in the battle was an object of Public concern:
His life was, it seems, very material indeed; a thread of so much dependence, that fiction,
weaving the fates of Princes, did not think it unworthy, how coarse soever, of being made a
part of the tissue.

We shall next produce the evidence of the Chief Justice of England. He inquires of his attendant,
“if the man who was then passing him was FALSTAFF; he who was in question for the robbery.”
The attendant answers affirmatively, but reminds his lord “that he had since done good service
at Shrewsbury”; and the Chief Justice, on this occasion, rating him for his debaucheries, tells
him “that his day’s service at Shrewsbury had gilded over his night’s exploit at Gads Hill.”
This is surely more than Common fame: The Chief Justice must have known his whole character
taken together, and must have received the most authentic information, and in the truest colours,
of his behaviour in that action.

But, perhaps, after all, the Military men may be esteemed the best judges in points of this
nature. Let us hear then Coleville of the dale, a Soldier, in degree a Knight, a famous rebel,
and “whose betters, had they been ruled by him, would have sold themselves dearer”: A man who
is of consequence enough to be guarded by Blunt and led to present execution. This man yields
himself up even to the very Name and Reputation of Falstaff. “I think,” says he, “you are Sir
John Falstaff, and in that thought yield me.” But this is but one only among the men of the
sword; and they shall be produced then by dozens, if that will satisfy. Upon the return of
the King and Prince Henry from Wales, the Prince seeks out and finds Falstaff debauching in
a tavern; where Peto presently brings an account of ill news from the North; and adds, “that
as he came along he met or overtook a dozen Captains, bare-headed, sweating, knocking at the
taverns, and asking every one for SIR JOHN FALSTAFF.” He is followed by Bardolph, who informs
Falstaff that “He must away to the Court immediately; a dozen Captains stay at door for him.”
Here is Military evidence in abundance, and Court evidence too; for what are we to infer from
Falstaff’s being sent for to Court on this ill news, but that his opinion was to be asked,
as a Military man of skill and experience, concerning the defences necessary to be taken. Nor
is Shakespeare content, here, with leaving us to gather up Falstaff’s better character from
inference and deduction: He comments on the fact by making Falstaff observe that “Men of merit
are sought after: The undeserver may sleep when the man of action is called on.” I do not wish
to draw Falstaff’s character out of his own mouth; but this observation refers to the fact,
and is founded in reason. Nor ought we to reject what in another place he says to the Chief
Justice, as it is in the nature of an appeal to his knowledge. “There is not a dangerous action,”
says he, “can peep out his head but I am thrust upon it.” The Chief Justice seems by his answer
to admit the fact. “Well, be honest, be honest, and heaven bless your expedition.” But the
whole passage may deserve transcribing.

    Ch. Just. “Well, the King has served you and Prince Henry. I hear
    you are going with Lord John of Lancaster against the Archbishop
    and the Earl of Northumberland.”

    Fals. “Yes, I thank your pretty sweet wit for it; but look you
    pray, all you that kiss my lady peace at home, that our armies
    join not in a hot day; for I take but two shirts out with me, and
    I mean not to sweat extraordinarily: If it be a hot day, if I
    brandish any thing but a bottle, would I might never spit white
    again. There is not a dangerous action can peep out his head but I
    am thrust upon it. Well I cannot last for ever.—But it was always
    the trick of our English nation, if they have a good thing to make
    it too common. If you will needs say I am an old man you should
    give me rest: I would to God my name were not so terrible to the
    enemy as it is. I were better to be eaten to death with a rust
    than to be scour’d to nothing with perpetual motion.”

    Ch. Just. “Well be honest, be honest, and heaven bless your
    expedition.”

Falstaff indulges himself here in humourous exaggeration;—these passages are not meant to be
taken, nor are we to suppose that they were taken, literally;—but if there was not a ground
of truth, if Falstaff had not had such a degree of Military reputation as was capable of being
thus humourously amplified and exaggerated, the whole dialogue would have been highly preposterous
and absurd, and the acquiescing answer of the Lord Chief Justice singularly improper.—But upon
the supposition of Falstaff’s being considered, upon the whole, as a good and gallant Officer,
the answer is just, and corresponds with the acknowledgment which had a little before been
made, “that his days service at Shrewsbury had gilded over his night’s exploit at Gads Hill.—You
may thank the unquiet time,” says the Chief Justice, “for your quiet o’erposting of that action”;
agreeing with what Falstaff says in another place;—“Well, God be thanked for these Rebels,
they offend none but the virtuous; I laud them, I praise them.”—Whether this be said in the
true spirit of a Soldier or not, I do not determine; it is surely not in that of a mere Coward
and Poltroon.

It will be needless to shew, which might be done from a variety of particulars, that Falstaff
was known and had consideration at Court. Shallow cultivates him in the idea that a friend
at Court is better than a penny in purse: Westmorland speaks to him in the tone of an equal:
Upon Falstaff’s telling him that he thought his lordship had been already at Shrewsbury, Westmorland
replies,—“Faith Sir John, ’tis more than time that I were there, and you too; the King I can
tell you looks for us all; we must away all to night.”—“Tut,” says Falstaff, “never fear me,
I am as vigilant as a cat to steal cream.”—He desires, in another place, of my lord John of
Lancaster, “that when he goes to Court, he may stand in his good report.” His intercourse and
correspondence with both these lords seem easy and familiar. “Go,” says he to the page, “bear
this to my Lord of Lancaster, this to the Prince, this to the Earl of Westmorland, and this
(for he extended himself on all sides) to old Mrs. Ursula,” whom, it seems, the rogue ought
to have married many years before.—But these intimations are needless: We see him ourselves
in the Royal Presence; where, certainly, his buffooneries never brought him; never was the
Prince of a character to commit so high an indecorum, as to thrust, upon a solemn occasion,
a mere Tavern companion into his father’s Presence, especially in a moment when he himself
deserts his looser character, and takes up that of a Prince indeed.—In a very important scene,
where Worcester is expected with proposals from Percy, and wherein he is received, is treated
with, and carries back offers of accommodation from the King, the King’s attendants upon the
occasion are the Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster, the Earl of Westmorland, Sir Walter
Blunt, and Sir John Falstaff.—What shall be said to this? Falstaff is not surely introduced
here in vicious indulgence to a mob audience;—he utters but one word, a buffoon one indeed,
but aside, and to the Prince only. Nothing, it should seem, is wanting, if decorum would here
have permitted, but that he should have spoken one sober sentence in the Presence (which yet
we are to suppose him ready and able to do if occasion should have required; or his wit was
given him to little purpose) and Sir John Falstaff might be allowed to pass for an established
Courtier and counsellor of state. “If I do grow great,” says he, “I’ll grow less, purge and
leave sack, and live as a nobleman should do.” Nobility did not then appear to him at an unmeasurable
distance; it was, it seems, in his idea, the very next link in the chain.

But to return. I would now demand what could bring Falstaff into the Royal Presence upon such
an occasion, or justify the Prince’s so public acknowledgment of him, but an established fame
and reputation of Military merit? In short, just the like merit as brought Sir Walter Blunt
into the same circumstances of honour.

But it may be objected that his introduction into this scene is a piece of indecorum in the
author. But upon what ground are we to suppose this? Upon the ground of his being a notorious
Coward? Why, this is the very point in question, and cannot be granted: Even the direct contrary
I have affirmed, and am endeavouring to support. But if it be supposed upon any other ground,
it does not concern me; I have nothing to do with Shakespeare’s indecorums in general. That
there are indecorums in the Play I have no doubt: The indecent treatment of Percy’s dead body
is the greatest;—the familiarity of the significant, rude, and even ill disposed Poins with
the Prince, is another;—but the admission of Falstaff into the Royal Presence (supposing, which
I have a right to suppose, that his Military character was unimpeached) does not seem to be
in any respect among the number. In camps there is but one virtue and one vice; Military merit
swallows up or covers all. But, after all, what have we to do with indecorums? Indecorums respect
the propriety or impropriety of exhibiting certain actions;—not their truth or falshood when
exhibited. Shakespeare stands to us in the place of truth and nature: If we desert this principle,
we cut the turf from under us; I may then object to the robbery and other passages as indecorums,
and as contrary to the truth of character. In short we may rend and tear the Play to pieces,
and every man carry off what sentences he likes best.—But why this inveterate malice against
poor Falstaff? He has faults enough in conscience without loading him with the infamy of Cowardice;
a charge, which, if true, would, if I am not greatly mistaken, spoil all our mirth.—But of
that hereafter.

It seems to me that, in our hasty judgment of some particular transactions, we forget the circumstances
and condition of his whole life and character, which yet deserve our very particular attention.
The author, it is true, has thrown the most advantageous of these circumstances into the back
ground, as it were, and has brought nothing out of the canvass but his follies and buffoonery.
We discover, however, that in a very early period of his life he was familiar with John of
Gaunt; which could hardly be, unless he had possessed much personal gallantry and accomplishment,
and had derived his birth from a distinguished at least, if not from a Noble family.

It may seem very extravagant to insist upon Falstaff’s birth as a ground from which, by any
inference, Personal courage may be derived, especially after having acknowledged that he seemed
to have deserted those points of honour which are more peculiarly the accompanyments of rank.
But it may be observed that in the Feudal ages rank and wealth were not only connected with
the point of honour, but with personal strength and natural courage. It is observable that
Courage is a quality which is at least as transmissible to one’s posterity as features and
complexion. In these periods men acquired and maintained their rank and possessions by personal
prowess and gallantry; and their marriage alliances were made, of course, in families of the
same character: And from hence, and from the exercises of their youth, we must account for
the distinguished force and bravery of our antient Barons. It is not therefore beside my purpose
to inquire what hints of the origin and birth of Falstaff, Shakespeare may have dropped in
different parts of the Play; for tho’ we may be disposed to allow that Falstaff in his old
age might, under particular influences, desert the point of honour, we cannot give up that
unalienable possession of Courage, which might have been derived to him from a noble or distinguished
stock.

But it may be said that Falstaff was in truth the child of invention only, and that a reference
to the Feudal accidents of birth serves only to confound fiction with reality: Not altogether
so. If the ideas of courage and birth were strongly associated in the days of Shakespeare,
then would the assignment of high birth to Falstaff carry, and be intended to carry along with
it, to the minds of the audience the associated idea of Courage, if nothing should be specially
interposed to dissolve the connection;—and the question is as concerning this intention, and
this effect.

I shall proceed yet farther to make a few very minute observations of the same nature: But
if Shakespeare meant sometimes rather to impress than explain, no circumstances calculated
to this end, either directly or by association, are too minute for notice. But however this
may be, a more conciliating reason still remains: The argument itself, like the tales of our
Novelists, is a vehicle only; theirs, as they profess, of moral instruction; and mine of critical
amusement. The vindication of Falstaff’s Courage deserves not for its own sake the least sober
discussion; Falstaff is the word only, Shakespeare is the Theme: And if thro’ this channel
I can furnish no irrational amusement, the reader will not, perhaps, every where expect from
me the strict severity of logical investigation.

Falstaff, then, it may be observed, was introduced into the world,—(at least we are told so)
by the name of Oldcastle.(41) This was assigning him an origin of nobility; but the family
of that name disclaiming any kindred with his vices, he was thereupon, as it is said, ingrafted
into another stock(42) scarcely less distinguished, tho’ fallen into indelible disgraces; and
by this means he has been made, if the conjectures of certain critics are well founded, the
Dramatic successor, tho’, having respect to chronology, the natural proavus of another Sir
John, who was no less than a Knight of the most noble order of the Garter, but a name for ever
dishonoured by a frequent exposure in that Drum-and-trumpet Thing called The first part of
Henry VI., written doubtless, or rather exhibited, long before Shakespeare was born,(43) tho’
afterwards repaired, I think, and furbished up by him with here and there a little sentiment
and diction. This family, if any branch of it remained in Shakespeare’s time, might have been
proud of their Dramatic ally, if indeed they could have any fair pretence to claim as such
him whom Shakespeare, perhaps in contempt of Cowardice, wrote Falstaff, not Fastolfe, the true
Historic name of the Gartered Craven.

In the age of Henry IV. a Family crest and arms were authentic proofs of gentility; and this
proof, among others, Shakespeare has furnished us with: Falstaff always carried about him,
it seems, a Seal ring of his Grandfather’s, worth, as he says, forty marks: The Prince indeed
affirms, but not seriously I think, that this ring was copper. As to the existence of the bonds,
which were I suppose the negotiable securities or paper-money of the time, and which he pretended
to have lost, I have nothing to say; but the ring, I believe, was really gold; tho’ probably
a little too much alloyed with baser metal. But this is not the point: The arms were doubtless
genuine; they were borne by his Grandfather, and are proofs of an antient gentility; a gentility
doubtless, in former periods, connected with wealth and possessions, tho’ the gold of the family
might have been transmuting by degrees, and perhaps, in the hands of Falstaff, converted into
little better than copper. This observation is made on the supposition of Falstaff’s being
considered as the head of the family, which I think however he ought not to be. It appears
rather as if he ought to be taken in the light of a cadet or younger brother; which the familiar
appellation of John, “the only one (as he says) given him by his brothers and sisters,” seems
to indicate. Be this as it may, we find he is able, in spite of dissipation, to keep up a certain
state and dignity of appearance; retaining no less than four, if not five, followers or men
servants in his train. He appears also to have had apartments in town, and, by his invitations
of Master Gower to dinner and to supper, a regular table: And one may infer farther from the
Prince’s question, on his return from Wales, to Bardolph, “Is your master here in London,”
that he had likewise a house in the country. Slight proofs it must be confessed, yet the inferences
are so probable, so buoyant, in their own nature, that they may well rest on them. That he
did not lodge at the Tavern is clear from the circumstances of the arrest. These various occasions
of expence,—servants, taverns, houses, and whores,—necessarily imply that Falstaff must have
had some funds which are not brought immediately under our notice. That these funds were not
however adequate to his style of living is plain: Perhaps his train may be considered only
as incumbrances, which the pride of family and the habit of former opulence might have brought
upon his present poverty: I do not mean absolute poverty, but call it so as relative to his
expence. To have “but seven groats and two-pence in his purse” and a page to bear it, is truly
ridiculous; and it is for that reason we become so familiar with its contents, “He can find,”
he says, “no remedy for this consumption of the purse, borrowing does but linger and linger
it out; but the disease is incurable.” It might well be deemed so in his course of dissipation:
But I shall presently suggest one source at least of his supply much more constant and honourable
than that of borrowing. But the condition of Falstaff as to opulence or poverty is not very
material to my purpose: It is enough if his birth was distinguished, and his youth noted for
gallantry and accomplishments. To the first I have spoken, and as for the latter we shall not
be at a loss when we remember that “he was in his youth a page to Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk”;
a situation at that time sought for by young men of the best families and first fortune. The
house of every great noble was at that period a kind of Military school; and it is probable
that Falstaff was singularly adroit at his exercises: “He broke Schoggan’s head,” (some boisterous
fencer I suppose) “when he was but a crack thus high.” Shallow remembers him as notedly skilful
at backsword; and he was at that period, according to his own humourous account, “scarcely
an eagle’s talon in the waist, and could have crept thro’ an alderman’s thumb ring.” Even at
the age at which he is exhibited to us, we find him foundering, as he calls it, nine score
and odd miles, with wonderful expedition, to join the army of Prince John of Lancaster; and
declaring, after the surrender of Coleville, that “had he but a belly of any indifferency,
he were simply the most active fellow in Europe.” Nor ought we here to pass over his Knighthood
without notice. It was, I grant, intended by the author as a dignity which, like his Courage
and his wit, was to be debased; his knighthood by low situations, his Courage by circumstances
and imputations of cowardice, and his wit by buffoonery. But how are we to suppose this honour
was acquired? By that very Courage, it should seem, which we so obstinately deny him. It was
not certainly given him, like a modern City Knighthood, for his wealth or gravity: It was in
these days a Military honour, and an authentic badge of Military merit.

But Falstaff was not only a Military Knight, he possess’d an honourable pension into the bargain;
the reward as well as retainer of service, and which seems (besides the favours perhaps of
Mrs. Ursula) to be the principal and only solid support of his present expences. But let us
refer to the passage. “A pox of this gout, or a gout of this pox; for one or the other plays
the rogue with my great toe: It is no matter if I do halt, I have the wars for my colour, and
my pension shall seem the more reasonable.” The mention Falstaff here makes of a pension, has
I believe been generally construed to refer rather to hope than possession, yet I know not
why: For the possessive MY, my pension, (not a pension) requires a different construction.
Is it that we cannot enjoy a wit till we have stript him of every worldly advantage, and reduced
him below the level of our envy? It may be perhaps for this reason among others that Shakespeare
has so obscured the better parts of Falstaff and stolen them secretly out of our feelings,
instead of opening them fairly to the notice of our understandings. How carelessly, and thro’
what bye-paths, as it were, of casual inference, is this fact of a pension introduced! And
how has he associated it with misfortune and infirmity! Yet I question, however, if, in this
one place, the Impression which was intended be well and effectually made. It must be left
to the reader to determine if, in that mass of things out of which Falstaff is compounded,
he ever considered a pension as any part of the composition: A pension however he appears to
have had, one that halting could only seem to make more reasonable, not more honourable. The
inference arising from the fact, I shall leave to the reader. It is surely a circumstance highly
advantageous to Falstaff (I speak of the pensions of former days), whether he be considered
in the light of a soldier or a gentleman.

I cannot foresee the temper of the reader, nor whether he be content to go along with me in
these kind of observations. Some of the incidents which I have drawn out of the Play may appear
too minute, whilst yet they refer to principles which may seem too general. Many points require
explanation; something should be said of the nature of Shakespeare’s Dramatic characters;(44)
by what arts they were formed, and wherein they differ from those of other writers; something
likewise more professedly of Shakespeare himself, and of the peculiar character of his genius.
After such a review we may not perhaps think any consideration arising out of the Play, or
out of general nature, either as too minute or too extensive.

Shakespeare is, in truth, an author whose mimic creation agrees in general so perfectly with
that of nature, that it is not only wonderful in the great, but opens another scene of amazement
to the discoveries of the microscope. We have been charged indeed by a Foreign writer with
an overmuch admiring of this Barbarian: Whether we have admired with knowledge, or have blindly
followed those feelings of affection which we could not resist, I cannot tell; but certain
it is, that to the labours of his Editors he has not been overmuch obliged. They are however
for the most part of the first rank in literary fame; but some of them had possessions of their
own in Parnassus, of an extent too great and important to allow of a very diligent attention
to the interests of others; and among those Critics more professionally so, the ablest and
the best has unfortunately looked more to the praise of ingenious than of just conjecture.
The character of his emendations are not so much that of right or wrong, as that, being in
the extreme, they are always Warburtonian. Another has since undertaken the custody of our
author, whom he seems to consider as a sort of wild Proteus or madman, and accordingly knocks
him down with the butt-end of his critical staff, as often as he exceeds that line of sober
discretion, which this learned Editor appears to have chalked out for him: Yet is this Editor
notwithstanding “a man, take him for all in all,” very highly respectable for his genius and
his learning. What however may be chiefly complained of in these gentlemen is, that having
erected themselves into the condition, as it were, of guardians and trustees of Shakespeare,
they have never undertaken to discharge the disgraceful incumbrances of some wretched productions
which have long hung heavy on his fame. Besides the evidence of taste, which indeed is not
communicable, there are yet other and more general proofs that these incumbrances were not
incurred by Shakespeare: The Latin sentences dispersed thro’ the imputed trash is, I think,
of itself a decisive one. Love’s Labour lost contains a very conclusive one of another kind;
tho’ the very last Editor has, I believe, in his critical sagacity, suppressed the evidence,
and withdrawn the record.

Yet whatever may be the neglect of some, or the censure of others, there are those who firmly
believe that this wild, this uncultivated Barbarian has not yet obtained one half of his fame;
and who trust that some new Stagyrite will arise, who instead of pecking at the surface of
things will enter into the inward soul of his compositions, and expel, by the force of congenial
feelings, those foreign impurities which have stained and disgraced his page. And as to those
spots which will still remain, they may perhaps become invisible to those who shall seek them
thro’ the medium of his beauties, instead of looking for those beauties, as is too frequently
done, thro’ the smoke of some real or imputed obscurity. When the hand of time shall have brushed
off his present Editors and Commentators, and when the very name of Voltaire, and even the
memory of the language in which he has written, shall be no more, the Apalachian mountains,
the banks of the Ohio, and the plains of Sciota shall resound with the accents of this Barbarian:
In his native tongue he shall roll the genuine passions of nature; nor shall the griefs of
Lear be alleviated, or the charms and wit of Rosalind be abated by time. There is indeed nothing
perishable about him, except that very learning which he is said so much to want. He had not,
it is true, enough for the demands of the age in which he lived, but he had perhaps too much
for the reach of his genius, and the interest of his fame. Milton and he will carry the decayed
remnants and fripperies of antient mythology into more distant ages than they are by their
own force intitled to extend; and the Metamorphoses of Ovid, upheld by them, lay in a new claim
to unmerited immortality.

Shakespeare is a name so interesting, that it is excusable to stop a moment, nay it would be
indecent to pass him without the tribute of some admiration. He differs essentially from all
other writers: Him we may profess rather to feel than to understand; and it is safer to say,
on many occasions, that we are possessed by him, than that we possess him. And no wonder;—He
scatters the seeds of things, the principles of character and action, with so cunning a hand,
yet with so careless an air, and, master of our feelings, submits himself so little to our
judgment, that every thing seems superior. We discern not his course, we see no connection
of cause and effect, we are rapt in ignorant admiration, and claim no kindred with his abilities.
All the incidents, all the parts, look like chance, whilst we feel and are sensible that the
whole is design. His Characters not only act and speak in strict conformity to nature, but
in strict relation to us; just so much is shewn as is requisite, just so much is impressed;
he commands every passage to our heads and to our hearts, and moulds us as he pleases, and
that with so much ease, that he never betrays his own exertions. We see these Characters act
from the mingled motives of passion, reason, interest, habit, and complection, in all their
proportions, when they are supposed to know it not themselves; and we are made to acknowledge
that their actions and sentiments are, from those motives, the necessary result. He at once
blends and distinguishes every thing;—every thing is complicated, every thing is plain. I restrain
the further expressions of my admiration lest they should not seem applicable to man; but it
is really astonishing that a mere human being, a part of humanity only, should so perfectly
comprehend the whole; and that he should possess such exquisite art, that whilst every woman
and every child shall feel the whole effect, his learned Editors and Commentators should yet
so very frequently mistake or seem ignorant of the cause. A sceptre or a straw are in his hands
of equal efficacy; he needs no selection; he converts every thing into excellence; nothing
is too great, nothing is too base. Is a character efficient like Richard, it is every thing
we can wish: Is it otherwise, like Hamlet, it is productive of equal admiration: Action produces
one mode of excellence, and inaction another: The Chronicle, the Novel, or the Ballad; the
king, or the beggar, the hero, the madman, the sot, or the fool; it is all one;—nothing is
worse, nothing is better: The same genius pervades and is equally admirable in all. Or, is
a character to be shewn in progressive change, and the events of years comprized within the
hour;—with what a Magic hand does he prepare and scatter his spells! The Understanding must,
in the first place, be subdued; and lo! how the rooted prejudices of the child spring up to
confound the man! The Weird sisters rise, and order is extinguished. The laws of nature give
way, and leave nothing in our minds but wildness and horror. No pause is allowed us for reflection:
Horrid sentiment, furious guilt and compunction, air-drawn daggers, murders, ghosts, and inchantment,
shake and possess us wholly. In the mean time the process is completed. Macbeth changes under
our eye, the milk of human kindness is converted to gall; he has supped full of horrors, and
his May of life is fallen into the sear, the yellow leaf; whilst we, the fools of amazement,
are insensible to the shifting of place and the lapse of time, and, till the curtain drops,
never once wake to the truth of things, or recognize the laws of existence.—On such an occasion,
a fellow, like Rymer, waking from his trance, shall lift up his Constable’s staff, and charge
this great Magician, this daring practicer of arts inhibited, in the name of Aristotle, to
surrender; whilst Aristotle himself, disowning his wretched Officer, would fall prostrate at
his feet and acknowledge his supremacy.—O supreme of Dramatic excellence! (might he say) not
to me be imputed the insolence of fools. The bards of Greece were confined within the narrow
circle of the Chorus, and hence they found themselves constrained to practice, for the most
part, the precision, and copy the details of nature. I followed them, and knew not that a larger
circle might be drawn, and the Drama extended to the whole reach of human genius. Convinced,
I see that a more compendious nature may be obtained; a nature of effects only, to which neither
the relations of place, or continuity of time, are always essential. Nature, condescending
to the faculties and apprehensions of man, has drawn through human life a regular chain of
visible causes and effects: But Poetry delights in surprise, conceals her steps, seizes at
once upon the heart, and obtains the Sublime of things without betraying the rounds of her
ascent: True Poesy is magic, not nature; an effect from causes hidden or unknown. To the Magician
I prescribed no laws; his law and his power are one; his power is his law. Him, who neither
imitates, nor is within the reach of imitation, no precedent can or ought to bind, no limits
to contain. If his end is obtained, who shall question his course? Means, whether apparent
or hidden, are justified in Poesy by success; but then most perfect and most admirable when
most concealed.(45) But whither am I going! This copious and delightful topic has drawn me
far beyond my design; I hasten back to my subject, and am guarded, for a time at least, against
any further temptation to digress.

I was considering the dignity of Falstaff so far as it might seem connected with or productive
of military merit, and I have assigned him reputation at least, if not fame, noble connection,
birth, attendants, title, and an honourable pension; every one of them presumptive proofs of
Military merit, and motives of action. What deduction is to be made on these articles, and
why they are so much obscured may, perhaps, hereafter appear.

I have now gone through the examination of all the Persons of the Drama from whose mouths any
thing can be drawn relative to the Courage of Falstaff, excepting the Prince and Poins, whose
evidence I have begged leave to reserve, and excepting a very severe censure passed on him
by Lord John of Lancaster, which I shall presently consider: But I must first observe that,
setting aside the jests of the Prince and Poins, and this censure of Lancaster, there is not
one expression uttered by any character in the Drama that can be construed into any impeachment
of Falstaff’s Courage;—an observation made before as respecting some of the Witnesses;—it is
now extended to all: And though this silence be a negative proof only, it cannot, in my opinion,
under the circumstances of the case, and whilst uncontradicted by facts, be too much relied
on. If Falstaff had been intended for the character of a Miles Gloriosus, his behaviour ought
and therefore would have been commented upon by others. Shakespeare seldom trusts to the apprehensions
of his audience; his characters interpret for one another continually, and when we least suspect
such artful and secret management: The conduct of Shakespeare in this respect is admirable,
and I could point out a thousand passages which might put to shame the advocates of a formal
Chorus, and prove that there is as little of necessity as grace in so mechanic a contrivance.(46)
But I confine my censure of the Chorus to its supposed use of comment and interpretation only.

Falstaff is, indeed, so far from appearing to my eye in the light of a Miles Gloriosus, that,
in the best of my taste and judgment, he does not discover, except in consequence of the robbery,
the least trait of such a character. All his boasting speeches are humour, mere humour, and
carefully spoken to persons who cannot misapprehend them, who cannot be imposed on: They contain
indeed, for the most part, an unreasonable and imprudent ridicule of himself, the usual subject
of his good humoured merriment; but in the company of ignorant people, such as the Justices,
or his own followers, he is remarkably reserved, and does not hazard any thing, even in the
way of humour, that may be subject to mistake: Indeed he no where seems to suspect that his
character is open to censure on this side, or that he needs the arts of imposition.—“Turk Gregory
never did such deeds in arms as I have done this day” is spoken, whilst he breathes from action,
to the Prince in a tone of jolly humour, and contains nothing but a light ridicule of his own
inactivity: This is as far from real boasting as his saying before the battle, “Wou’d it were
bed-time, HAL, and all were well,” is from meanness or depression. This articulated wish is
not the fearful outcry of a Coward, but the frank and honest breathing of a generous fellow,
who does not expect to be seriously reproached with the character. Instead, indeed, of deserving
the name of a vain glorious Coward, his modesty perhaps on his head, and whimsical ridicule
of himself, have been a principal source of the imputation.

But to come to the very serious reproach thrown upon him by that cold blooded boy, as he calls
him, Lancaster.—Lancaster makes a solemn treaty of peace with the Archbishop of York, Mowbray,
&c. upon the faith of which they disperse their troops; which is no sooner done than Lancaster
arrests the Principals, and pursues the scattered stray: A transaction, by the bye, so singularly
perfidious, that I wish Shakespeare, for his own credit, had not suffered it to pass under
his pen without marking it with the blackest strokes of Infamy.—During this transaction, Falstaff
arrives, joins in the pursuit, and takes Sir John Coleville prisoner. Upon being seen by Lancaster
he is thus addressed:—

    “Now, Falstaff, where have you been all this while?
    When every thing is over, then you come:
    These tardy tricks of yours will, on my life,
    One time or other break some gallows’ back.”

This may appear to many a very formidable passage. It is spoken, as we may say, in the hearing
of the army, and by one intitled as it were by his station to decide on military conduct; and
if no punishment immediately follows, the forbearance may be imputed to a regard for the Prince
of Wales, whose favour the delinquent was known so unworthily to possess. But this reasoning
will by no means apply to the real circumstances of the case. The effect of this passage will
depend on the credit we shall be inclined to give to Lancaster for integrity and candour, and
still more upon the facts which are the ground of this censure, and which are fairly offered
by Shakespeare to our notice.

We will examine the evidence arising from both; and to this end we must in the first place
a little unfold the character of this young Commander in chief;—from a review of which we may
more clearly discern the general impulses and secret motives of his conduct: And this is a
proceeding which I think the peculiar character of Shakespeare’s Drama will very well justify.

We are already well prepared what to think of this young man:—We have just seen a very pretty
manœuvre of his in a matter of the highest moment, and have therefore the less reason to be
surprized if we find him practising a more petty fraud with suitable skill and address. He
appears in truth to have been what Falstaff calls him, a cold, reserved, sober-blooded boy;
a politician, as it should seem, by nature; bred up moreover in the school of Bolingbroke his
father, and tutored to betray: With sufficient courage and ability perhaps, but with too much
of the knave in his composition, and too little of enthusiasm, ever to be a great and superior
character. That such a youth as this should, even from the propensities of character alone,
take any plausible occasion to injure a frank unguarded man of wit and pleasure, will not appear
unnatural. But he had other inducements. Falstaff had given very general scandal by his distinguished
wit and noted poverty, insomuch that a little cruelty and injustice towards him was likely
to pass, in the eye of the grave and prudent part of mankind, as a very creditable piece of
fraud, and to be accounted to Lancaster for virtue and good service. But Lancaster had motives
yet more prevailing; Falstaff was a Favourite, without the power which belongs to that character;
and the tone of the Court was strongly against him, as the misleader and corrupter of the Prince;
who was now at too great a distance to afford him immediate countenance and protection. A scratch
then, between jest and earnest as it were, something that would not too much offend the prince,
yet would leave behind a disgraceful scar upon Falstaff, was very suitable to the temper and
situation of parties and affairs. With these observations in our thought, let us return to
the passage: It is plainly intended for disgrace, but how artful, how cautious, how insidious
is the manner! It may pass for sheer pleasantry and humour: Lancaster assumes the familiar
phrase and girding tone of Harry; and the gallows, as he words it, appears to be in the most
danger from an encounter with Falstaff.—With respect to the matter, ’tis a kind of miching
malicho; it means mischief indeed, but there is not precision enough in it to intitle it to
the appellation of a formal charge, or to give to Falstaff any certain and determined ground
of defence. Tardy tricks may mean not Cowardice but neglect only, though the manner may seem
to carry the imputation to both.—The reply of Falstaff is exactly suited to the qualities of
the speech;—for Falstaff never wants ability, but conduct only. He answers the general effect
of this speech by a feeling and serious complaint of injustice; he then goes on to apply his
defence to the vindication both of his diligence and courage; but he deserts by degrees his
serious tone, and taking the handle of pleasantry which Lancaster had held forth to him, he
is prudently content, as being sensible of Lancaster’s high rank and station, to let the whole
pass off in buffoonery and humour. But the question is, however, not concerning the adroitness
and management of either party: Our business is, after putting the credit of Lancaster out
of the question, to discover what there may be of truth and of fact either in the charge of
the one, or the defence of the other. From this only, we shall be able to draw our inferences
with fairness and with candour. The charge against Falstaff is already in the possession of
the reader: The defence follows.—

Fals. “I would be sorry, my lord, but it should be thus: I never knew yet but that rebuke and
check were the reward of valour. Do you think me a swallow, an arrow, or a bullet? Have I in
my poor and old motion the expedition of thought? I speeded hither within the very extremest
inch of possibility. I have foundered ninescore and odd posts (deserting by degrees his serious
tone, for one of more address and advantage), and here, travel-tainted as I am, have I in my
pure and immaculate valour taken Sir John Coleville of the dale, a most furious Knight and
valorous enemy.”

Falstaff’s answer then is that he used all possible expedition to join the army; the not doing
of which, with an implication of Cowardice as the cause, is the utmost extent of the charge
against him; and to take off this implication he refers to the evidence of a fact present and
manifest,—the surrender of Coleville; in whose hearing he speaks, and to whom therefore he
is supposed to appeal. Nothing then remains but that we should inquire if Falstaff’s answer
was really founded in truth; “I speeded hither” says he, “within the extremest inch of possibility”:
If it be so, he is justified: But I am afraid, for we must not conceal any thing, that Falstaff
was really detained too long by his debaucheries in London; at least, if we take the Chief
Justice’s words very strictly.

“Ch. Just. How now, Sir John? What are you brawling here? Doth this become your PLACE, your
TIME, your BUSINESS? You should have been well on your way to York.”

Here then seems to be a delay worthy perhaps of rebuke; and if we could suppose Lancaster to
mean nothing more by tardy tricks than idleness and debauch, I should not possibly think myself
much concerned to vindicate Falstaff from the charge; but the words imply, to my apprehension,
a designed and deliberate avoidance of danger. Yet to the contrary of this we are furnished
with very full and complete evidence. Falstaff, the moment he quits London, discovers the utmost
eagerness and impatience to join the army; he gives up his gluttony, his mirth, and his ease.
We see him take up in his passage some recruits at Shallow’s house; and tho’ he has pecuniary
views upon Shallow, no inducement stops him; he takes no refreshment, he cannot tarry dinner,
he hurries off; “I will not,” says he to the Justices, “use many words with you. Fare ye well,
Gentlemen both; I thank ye, I must a dozen miles to night.”—He misuses, it is true, at this
time the King’s Press damnably; but that does not concern me, at least not for the present;
it belongs to other parts of his character.—It appears then manifestly that Shakespeare meant
to shew Falstaff as really using the utmost speed in his power; he arrives almost literally
within the extremest inch of possibility; and if Lancaster had not accelerated the event by
a stroke of perfidy much more subject to the imputation of Cowardice than the Debauch of Falstaff,
he would have been time enough to have shared in the danger of a fair and honest decision.
But great men have, it seems, a privilege; “that in the GENERAL’S but a choleric word, which
in the SOLDIER WERE flat blasphemy.” Yet after all, Falstaff did really come time enough, as
it appears, to join in the villainous triumphs of the day, to take prisoner Coleville of the
dale, a most furious Knight and valorous enemy.—Let us look to the fact. If this incident should
be found to contain any striking proof of Falstaff’s Courage and Military fame, his defence
against Lancaster will be stronger than the reader has even a right to demand. Falstaff encounters
Coleville in the field, and, having demanded his name, is ready to assail him; but Coleville
asks him if he is not Sir John Falstaff; thereby implying a purpose of surrender. Falstaff
will not so much as furnish him with a pretence, and answers only, that he is as good a man.
“Do you yield Sir, or shall I sweat for you?” “I think,” says Coleville, “you are Sir John
Falstaff, and in that thought yield me.” This fact, and the incidents with which it is accompanied,
speak loudly; it seems to have been contrived by the author on purpose to take off a rebuke
so authoritatively made by Lancaster. The fact is set before our eyes to confute the censure:
Lancaster himself seems to give up his charge, tho’ not his ill will; for upon Falstaff’s asking
leave to pass through Glostershire, and artfully desiring that, upon Lancaster’s return to
Court, he might stand well in his report, Lancaster seems in his answer to mingle malice and
acquittal. “Fare ye well, Falstaff, I in my condition shall better speak of you than you deserve.”
“I would,” says Falstaff, who is left behind in the scene, “You had but the wit; ’twere better
than your Dukedom.” He continues on the stage some time chewing the cud of dishonour, which,
with all his facility, he cannot well swallow. “Good faith” says he, accounting to himself
as well as he could for the injurious conduct of Lancaster, “this sober-blooded boy does not
love me.” This he might well believe. “A man,” says he, “cannot make him laugh; there’s none
of these demure boys come to any proof; but that’s no marvel, they drink no sack.”—Falstaff
then it seems knew no drinker of sack who was a Coward; at least the instance was not home
and familiar to him.—“They all,” says he, “fall into a kind of Male green sickness, and are
generally fools and Cowards.” Anger has a privilege, and I think Falstaff has a right to turn
the tables upon Lancaster if he can; but Lancaster was certainly no fool, and I think upon
the whole no Coward; yet the Male green sickness which Falstaff talks of seems to have infected
his manners and aspect, and taken from him all external indication of gallantry and courage.
He behaves in the battle of Shrewsbury beyond the promise of his complexion and deportment:
“By heaven thou hast deceived me Lancaster,” says Harry, “I did not think thee Lord of such
a spirit!” Nor was his father less surprized “at his holding Lord Percy at the point with lustier
maintenance than he did look for from such an unripe warrior.” But how well and unexpectedly
soever he might have behaved upon that occasion, he does not seem to have been of a temper
to trust fortune too much or too often with his safety; therefore it is that, in order to keep
the event in his own hands, he loads the Die, in the present case, with villainy and deceit:
The event however he piously ascribes, like a wise and prudent youth as he is, without paying
that worship to himself which he so justly merits, to the special favour and interposition
of Heaven.

    “Strike up your drums, pursue the scattered stray.
    Heaven, and not we, have safely fought to-day.”

But the profane Falstaff, on the contrary, less informed and less studious of supernatural
things, imputes the whole of this conduct to thin potations, and the not drinking largely of
good and excellent sherris; and so little doubt does he seem to entertain of the Cowardice
and ill disposition of this youth, that he stands devising causes, and casting about for an
hypothesis on which the whole may be physically explained and accounted for;—but I shall leave
him and Doctor Cadogan to settle that point as they may.

The only serious charge against Falstaff’s Courage, we have now at large examined; it came
from great authority, from the Commander in chief, and was meant as chastisement and rebuke;
but it appears to have been founded in ill-will, in the particular character of Lancaster,
and in the wantonness and insolence of power; and the author has placed near, and under our
notice, full and ample proofs of its injustice.—And thus the deeper we look unto Falstaff’s
character, the stronger is our conviction that he was not intended to be shewn as a Constitutional
coward: Censure cannot lay sufficient hold on him,—and even malice turns away, and more than
half pronounces his acquittal.

But as yet we have dealt principally in parole and circumstantial evidence, and have referred
to Fact only incidentally. But Facts have a much more operative influence: They may be produced,
not as arguments only, but Records; not to dispute alone, but to decide.—It is time then to
behold Falstaff in actual service as a soldier, in danger, and in battle. We have already displayed
one fact in his defence against the censure of Lancaster; a fact extremely unequivocal and
decisive. But the reader knows I have others, and doubtless goes before me to the action at
Shrewsbury. In the midst and in the heat of battle we see him come forwards;—what are his words?
“I have led my Rag-o-muffians where they are peppered; there’s not three of my hundred and
fifty left alive.” But to whom does he say this? To himself only; he speaks in soliloquy. There
is no questioning the fact, he had led them; they were peppered; there were not THREE left
alive. He was in luck, being in bulk equal to any two of them, to escape unhurt. Let the author
answer for that, I have nothing to do with it: He was the Poetic maker of the whole Corps,
and he might dispose of them as he pleased. Well might the Chief justice, as we now find, acknowledge
Falstaff’s services in this day’s battle; an acknowledgment which amply confirms the fact.
A Modern officer, who had performed a feat of this kind, would expect, not only the praise
of having done his duty, but the appellation of a hero. But poor Falstaff has too much wit
to thrive: In spite of probability, in spite of inference, in spite of fact, he must be a Coward
still. He happens unfortunately to have more Wit than Courage, and therefore we are maliciously
determined that he shall have no Courage at all. But let us suppose that his modes of expression,
even in soliloquy, will admit of some abatement;—how much shall we abate? Say that he brought
off fifty instead of three; yet a Modern captain would be apt to look big after an action with
two thirds of his men, as it were, in his belly. Surely Shakespeare never meant to exhibit
this man as a Constitutional coward; if he did, his means were sadly destructive of his end.
We see him, after he had expended his Rag-o-muffians, with sword and target in the midst of
battle, in perfect possession of himself, and replete with humour and jocularity. He was, I
presume, in some immediate personal danger, in danger also of a general defeat; too corpulent
for flight; and to be led a prisoner was probably to be led to execution; yet we see him laughing
and easy, offering a bottle of sack to the Prince instead of a pistol, punning, and telling
him, “there was that which would SACK a city.”—“What, is it a time,” says the Prince “to jest
and dally now?” No, a sober character would not jest on such an occasion, but a Coward could
not; he would neither have the inclination, or the power. And what could support Falstaff in
such a situation? Not principle; he is not suspected of the Point of honour; he seems indeed
fairly to renounce it. “Honour cannot set a leg or an arm; it has no skill in surgery:—What
is it? a word only; meer air. It is insensible to the dead; and detraction will not let  it
live with the living.” What then but a strong natural constitutional Courage, which nothing
could extinguish or dismay?—In the following passages the true character of Falstaff as to
Courage and Principle is finely touched, and the different colours at once nicely blended and
distinguished. “If Percy be alive, I’ll PIERCE him. If he do come in my way, SO:—If he do not,
if I come in HIS willingly, let him make a Carbonado of me. I like not such grinning honour
as Sir Walter hath; give me life; which if I can save, SO; if not, honour comes unlook’d for,
and there’s an end.” One cannot say which prevails most here, profligacy or courage; they are
both tinged alike by the same humour, and mingled in one common mass; yet when we consider
the superior force of Percy, as we must presently also that of Douglas, we shall be apt, I
believe, in our secret heart, to forgive him. These passages are spoken in soliloquy and in
battle: If every soliloquy made under similar circumstances were as audible as Falstaff’s,
the imputation might perhaps be found too general for censure. These are among the passages
that have impressed on the world an idea of Cowardice in Falstaff;—yet why? He is resolute
to take his fate: If Percy do come in his way, so;—if not, he will not seek inevitable destruction;
he is willing to save his life, but if that cannot be, why,—“honour comes unlook’d for, and
there’s an end.” This surely is not the language of Cowardice: It contains neither the Bounce
or Whine of the character; he derides, it is true, and seems to renounce that grinning idol
of Military zealots, Honour. But Falstaff has a kind of Military free-thinker, and has accordingly
incurred the obloquy of his condition. He stands upon the ground of natural Courage only and
common sense, and has, it seems, too much wit for a hero.—But let me be well understood;—I
do not justify Falstaff for renouncing the point of honour; it proceeded doubtless from a general
relaxation of mind, and profligacy of temper. Honour is calculated to aid and strengthen natural
courage, and lift it up to heroism; but natural courage, which can act as such without honour,
is natural courage still; the very quality I wish to maintain to Falstaff. And if, without
the aid of honour, he can act with firmness, his portion is only the more eminent and distinguished.
In such a character, it is to his actions, not his sentiments, that we are to look for conviction.
But it may be still further urged in behalf of Falstaff, that there may be false honour as
well as false religion. It is true; yet even in that case candour obliges me to confess that
the best men are most disposed to conform, and most likely to become the dupes of their own
virtue. But it may however be more reasonably urged that there are particular tenets both in
honour and religion, which it is the grossness of folly not to question. To seek out, to court
assured destruction, without leaving a single benefit behind, may be well reckoned in the number:
And this is precisely the very folly which Falstaff seems to abjure;—nor are we, perhaps, intitled
to say more, in the way of censure, than that he had not virtue enough to become the dupe of
honour, nor prudence enough to hold his tongue. I am willing however, if the reader pleases,
to compound this matter, and acknowledge, on my part, that Falstaff was in all respects the
old soldier; that he had put himself under the sober discipline of discretion, and renounced,
in a great degree at least, what he might call the Vanities and Superstitions of honour; if
the reader will, on his part, admit that this might well be, without his renouncing, at the
same time, the natural firmness and resolution he was born to.

But there is a formidable objection behind. Falstaff counterfeits basely on being attacked
by Douglas; he assumes, in a cowardly spirit, the appearance of death to avoid the reality.
But there was no equality of force; not the least chance for victory, or life. And is it the
duty then, think we still, of true Courage, to meet, without benefit to society, certain death?
Or is it only the phantasy of honour?—But such a fiction is highly disgraceful;—true, and a
man of nice honour might perhaps have grinned for it. But we must remember that Falstaff had
a double character; he was a wit as well as a soldier; and his Courage, however eminent, was
but the accessary; his wit was the principal; and the part, which, if they should come in competition,
he had the greatest interest in maintaining. Vain indeed were the licentiousness of his principles,
if he should seek death like a bigot, yet without the meed of honour; when he might live by
wit, and encrease the reputation of that wit by living. But why do I labour this point? It
has been already anticipated, and our improved acquaintance with Falstaff will now require
no more than a short narrative of the fact.

Whilst in the battle of Shrewsbury he is exhorting and encouraging the Prince who is engaged
with the Spirit Percy—“Well said Hal, to him Hal,”—he is himself attacked by the Fiend Douglas.
There was no match; nothing remained but death or stratagem; grinning honour, or laughing life.
But an expedient offers, a mirthful one,—Take your choice Falstaff, a point of honour, or a
point of drollery.—It could not be a question;—Falstaff falls, Douglas is cheated, and the
world laughs. But does he fall like a Coward? No, like a buffoon only; the superior principle
prevails, and Falstaff lives by a stratagem growing out of his character, to prove himself
no counterfeit, to jest, to be employed, and to fight again. That Falstaff valued himself,
and expected to be valued by others, upon this piece of saving wit, is plain. It was a stratagem,
it is true; it argued presence of mind; but it was moreover, what he most liked, a very laughable
joke; and as such he considers it; for he continues to counterfeit after the danger is over,
that he may also deceive the Prince, and improve the event into more laughter. He might, for
ought that appears, have concealed the transaction; the Prince was too earnestly engaged for
observation; he might have formed a thousand excuses for his fall; but he lies still and listens
to the pronouncing of his epitaph by the Prince with all the waggish glee and levity of his
character. The circumstance of his wounding Percy in the thigh, and carrying the dead body
on his back like luggage, is indecent but not cowardly. The declaring, though in jest, that
he killed Percy, seems to me idle, but it is not meant or calculated for imposition; it is
spoken to the Prince himself, the man in the world who could not be, or be supposed to be,
imposed on. But we must hear, whether to the purpose or not, what it is that Harry has to say
over the remains of his old friend.

    P. Hen. What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh
    Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
    I could have better spared a better man.
    Oh! I shou’d have a heavy miss of thee,
    If I were much in love with vanity.
    Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
    Tho’ many a dearer in this bloody fray;
    Imbowelled will I see thee by and by;
    Till then, in blood by noble Percy lye.

This is wonderfully proper for the occasion; it is affectionate, it is pathetic, yet it remembers
his vanities, and, with a faint gleam of recollected mirth, even his plumpness and corpulency;
but it is a pleasantry softned and rendered even vapid by tenderness, and it goes off in the
sickly effort of a miserable pun.(47)—But to our immediate purpose,—why is not his Cowardice
remembered too? what, no surprize that Falstaff should lye by the side of the noble Percy in
the bed of honour! No reflection that flight, though unfettered by disease, could not avail;
that fear could not find a subterfuge from death? Shall his corpulency and his vanities be
recorded, and his more characteristic quality of Cowardice, even in the moment that it particularly
demanded notice and reflection, be forgotten? If by sparing a better man be here meant a better
soldier, there is no doubt but there were better Soldiers in the army, more active, more young,
more principled, more knowing; but none, it seems, taken for all in all, more acceptable. The
comparative better used here leaves to Falstaff the praise at least of good; and to be a good
soldier, is to be a great way from Coward. But Falstaff’s goodness, in this sort, appears to
have been not only enough to redeem him from disgrace, but to mark him with reputation; if
I was to add with eminence and distinction, the funeral honours which are intended his obsequies,
and his being bid, till then, to lye in blood by the noble Percy, would fairly bear me out.

Upon the whole of the passages yet before us, why may I not reasonably hope that the good natured
reader (and I write to no other), not offended at the levity of this exercise, may join with
me in thinking that the character of Falstaff, as to valour, may be fairly and honestly summed
up in the very words which he himself uses to Harry; and which seem, as to this point, to be
intended by Shakespeare as a Compendium of his character. “What,” says the Prince, “a Coward,
Sir John Paunch!” Falstaff replies, “Indeed I am not JOHN OF GAUNT your grandfather, but yet
NO COWARD, Hal.”

The robbery at Gads-Hill comes now to be considered. But here, after such long argumentation,
we may be allowed to breath a little.

I know not what Impression has been made on the reader; a good deal of evidence has been produced,
and much more remains to be offered. But how many sorts of men are there whom no evidence can
persuade! How many, who, ignorant of Shakespeare, or forgetful of the text, may as well read
heathen Greek, or the laws of the land, as this unfortunate Commentary? How many, who, proud
and pedantic, hate all novelty, and damn it without mercy under one compendious word, Paradox?
How many more, who, not deriving their opinions immediately from the sovereignty of reason,
hold at the will of some superior lord, to whom accident or inclination has attached them,
and who, true to their vassalage, are resolute not to surrender, without express permission,
their base and ill-gotten possessions. These, however habited, are the mob of mankind, who
hoot and holla, hiss or huzza, just as their various leaders may direct. I challenge the whole
Pannel as not holding by free tenure, and therefore not competent to the purpose either of
condemnation or acquittal. But to the men of very nice honour what shall be said? I speak not
of your men of good service, but such as Mr. —— “Souls made of fire, and children of the sun.”
These gentlemen, I am sadly afraid, cannot in honour or prudence admit of any composition in
the very nice article of Courage; suspicion is disgrace, and they cannot stay to parley with
dishonour. The misfortune in cases of this kind is that it is not easy to obtain a fair and
impartial Jury: When we censure others with an eye to our own applause, we are as seldom sparing
of reproach, as inquisitive into circumstance; and bold is the man who, tenacious of justice,
shall venture to weigh circumstances, or draw lines of distinction between Cowardice and any
apparently similar or neighbour quality: As well may a lady, virgin or matron, of immaculate
honour, presume to pity or palliate the soft failing of some unguarded friend, and thereby
confess, as it were, those sympathetic feelings which it behoves her to conceal under the most
contemptuous disdain; a disdain, always proportioned, I believe, to a certain consciousness
which we must not explain. I am afraid that poor Falstaff has suffered not a little, and may
yet suffer by this fastidiousness of temper. But though we may find these classes of men rather
unfavourable to our wishes, the Ladies, one may hope, whose smiles are most worth our ambition,
may be found more propitious; yet they too, through a generous conformity to the brave, are
apt to take up the high tone of honour. Heroism is an idea perfectly conformable to the natural
delicacy and elevation of their minds. Should we be fortunate enough therefore to redeem Falstaff
from the imputations of Cowardice, yet plain Courage, I am afraid, will not serve the turn:
Even their heroes, I think, must be for the most part in the bloom of youth, or just where
youth ends, in manhood’s freshest prime; but to be “Old, cold, and of intolerable entrails;
to be fat and greasy; as poor as Job, and as slanderous as Satan”;—Take him away, he merits
not a fair trial; he is too offensive to be turned, too odious to be touched. I grant, indeed,
that the subject of our lecture is not without his infirmity; “He cuts three inches on the
ribs, he was short-winded,” and his breath possibly not of the sweetest. “He had the gout,”
or something worse, “which played the rogue with his great toe.”—But these considerations are
not to the point; we shall conceal, as much as may be, these offences; our business is with
his heart only, which, as we shall endeavour to demonstrate, lies in the right place, and is
firm and sound, notwithstanding a few indications to the contrary.—As for you, Mrs. MONTAGUE,
I am grieved to find that you have been involved in a popular error; so much you must allow
me to say;—for the rest, I bow to your genius and your virtues: You have given to the world
a very elegant composition; and I am told your manners and your mind are yet more pure, more
elegant than your book. Falstaff was too gross, too infirm, for your inspection; but if you
durst have looked nearer, you would not have found Cowardice in the number of his infirmities.—We
will try if we cannot redeem him from this universal censure.—Let the venal corporation of
authors duck to the golden fool, let them shape their sordid quills to the mercenary ends of
unmerited praise, or of baser detraction;—old Jack, though deserted by princes, though censured
by an ungrateful world, and persecuted from age to age by Critic and Commentator, and though
never rich enough to hire one literary prostitute, shall find a Voluntary defender; and that
too at a time when the whole body of the Nabobry demands and requires defence; whilst their
ill-gotten and almost untold gold feels loose in their unassured grasp, and whilst they are
ready to shake off portions of the enormous heap, that they may the more securely clasp the
remainder.—But not to digress without end,—to the candid, to the chearful, to the elegant reader
we appeal; our exercise is much too light for the sour eye of strict severity; it professes
amusement only, but we hope of a kind more rational than the History of Miss Betsy, eked out
with the Story of Miss Lucy, and the Tale of Mr. Twankum: And so, in a leisure hour, and with
the good natured reader, it may be hoped, to friend, we return, with an air as busy and important
as if we were engaged in the grave office of measuring the Pyramids, or settling the antiquity
of Stonehenge, to converse with this jovial, this fat, this roguish, this frail, but, I think,
not cowardly companion.

Though the robbery at Gads-Hill, and the supposed Cowardice of Falstaff on that occasion, are
next to be considered, yet I must previously declare, that I think the discussion of this matter
to be now unessential to the reestablishment of Falstaff’s reputation as a man of Courage.
For suppose we should grant, in form, that Falstaff was surprized with fear in this single
instance, that he was off his guard, and even acted like a Coward; what will follow, but that
Falstaff, like greater heroes, had his weak moment, and was not exempted from panic and surprize?
If a single exception can destroy a general character, Hector was a Coward, and Anthony a Poltroon.
But for these seeming contradictions of Character we shall seldom be at a loss to account,
if we carefully refer to circumstance and situation.—In the present instance, Falstaff had
done an illegal act; the exertion was over; and he had unbent his mind in security. The spirit
of enterprize, and the animating principle of hope, were withdrawn:—In this situation, he is
unexpectedly attacked; he has no time to recall his thoughts, or bend his mind to action. He
is not now acting in the Profession and in the Habits of a Soldier; he is associated with known
Cowards; his assailants are vigorous, sudden, and bold; he is conscious of guilt; he has dangers
to dread of every form, present and future; prisons and gibbets, as well as sword and fire;
he is surrounded with darkness, and the Sheriff, the Hangman, and the whole Posse Commitatus
may be at his heels:—Without a moment for reflection, is it wonderful that, under these circumstances,
“he should run and roar, and carry his guts away with as much dexterity as possible”?

But though I might well rest the question on this ground, yet as there remains many good topics
of vindication, and as I think a more minute inquiry into this matter will only bring out more
evidence in support of Falstaff’s constitutional Courage, I will not decline the discussion.
I beg permission therefore to state fully, as well as fairly, the whole of this obnoxious transaction,
this unfortunate robbery at Gads-Hill.

In the scene wherein we become first acquainted with Falstaff, his character is opened in a
manner worthy of Shakespeare: We see him in a green old age, mellow, frank, gay, easy, corpulent,
loose, unprincipled, and luxurious; a Robber, as he says, by his vocation; yet not altogether
so:—There was much, it seems, of mirth and recreation in the case: “The poor abuses of the
times,” he wantonly and humourously tells the Prince, “want countenance; and he hates to see
resolution fobbed off, as it is, by the rusty curb of old father antic, the law.”—When he quits
the scene, we are acquainted that he is only passing to the Tavern: “Farewell,” says he, with
an air of careless jollity and gay content, “You will find me in East-Cheap.” “Farewell,” says
the Prince, “thou latter  spring; farewell, all-hallown summer.” But though all this is excellent
for Shakespeare’s purposes, we find, as yet at least, no hint of Falstaff’s Cowardice, no appearance
of Braggadocio, or any preparation whatever for laughter under this head.—The instant Falstaff
is withdrawn, Poins opens to the Prince his meditated scheme of a double robbery; and here
then we may reasonably expect to be let into these parts of Falstaff’s character.—We shall see.

Poins. “Now my good sweet lord, ride with us tomorrow; I have a jest to execute that I cannot
manage alone. FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, PETO, and GADSHILL shall rob those men that we have already
waylaid; yourself and I will not be there; and when they have the booty, if you and I do not
rob them, cut this head from off my shoulders.”

This is giving strong surety for his words; perhaps he thought the case required it: “But how,”
says the Prince, “shall we part with them in setting forth?” Poins is ready with his answer;
he had matured the thought, and could solve every difficulty:—“They could set out before, or
after; their horses might be tied in the wood; they could change their visors; and he had already
procured cases of BUCKRAM to inmask their outward garments.” This was going far; it was doing
business in good earnest. But if we look into the Play we shall be better able to account for
this activity; we shall find that there was at least as much malice as jest in Poins’s intention.
The rival situations of Poins and Falstaff had produced on both sides much jealousy and ill
will, which occasionally appears, in Shakespeare’s manner, by side lights, without confounding
the main action; and by the little we see of this Poins, he appears to be an unamiable, if
not a very brutish and bad, character.—But to pass this;—the Prince next says, with a deliberate
and wholesome caution, “I doubt they will be too hard for us.” Poins’s reply is remarkable;
“Well, for TWO of them, I know them to be as true bred Cowards as ever turned back; and for
the THIRD, if he fights longer than he sees cause, I will forswear arms.” There is in this
reply a great deal of management: There were four persons in all, as Poins well knew, and he
had himself, but a little before, named them,—Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto, and Gadshill; but now
he omits one of the number, which must be either Falstaff, as not subject to any imputation
in point of Courage; and in that case Peto will be the third;—or, as I rather think, in order
to diminish the force of the Prince’s objection, he artfully drops Gadshill, who was then out
of town, and might therefore be supposed to be less in the Prince’s notice; and upon this supposition
Falstaff will be the third, who will not fight longer than he sees reason. But on either supposition,
what evidence is there of a pre-supposed Cowardice in Falstaff? On the contrary, what stronger
evidence can we require that the Courage of Falstaff had to this hour, through various trials,
stood wholly unimpeached, than that Poins, the ill-disposed Poins, who ventures, for his own
purposes, to steal, as it were, one of the four from the notice and memory of the Prince, and
who shews himself, from worse motives, as skilfull in diminishing as Falstaff appears afterwards
to be in increasing of numbers, than that this very Poins should not venture to put down Falstaff
in the list of Cowards; though the occasion so strongly required that he should be degraded.
What Poins dares do however in this sort, he does. “As to the third,” for so he describes Falstaff
(as if the name of this Veteran would have excited too strongly the ideas of Courage and resistance),
“if he fights longer than he sees reason, I will forswear arms.” This is the old trick of cautious
and artful malice: The turn of expression, or the tone of voice does all; for as to the words
themselves, simply considered, they might be now truly spoken of almost any man who ever lived,
except the iron-headed hero of Sweden.—But Poins however adds something, which may appear more
decisive; “The virtue of this jest will be the incomprehensible lyes which this fat rogue will
tell when we meet at supper; how thirty at least he fought with; and what wards, what blows,
what extremities, he endured: And in the reproof of this lies the jest”:—Yes, and the malice
too.—This prediction was unfortunately fulfilled, even beyond the letter of it; a completion
more incident, perhaps, to the predictions of malice than of affection. But we shall presently
see how far either the prediction, or the event, will go to the impeachment of Falstaff’s Courage.—The
Prince, who is never duped, comprehends the whole of Poins’s views. But let that pass.

In the next scene we behold all the parties at Gads-Hill in preparation for the robbery. Let
us carefully examine if it contains any intimation of Cowardice in Falstaff. He is shewn under
a very ridiculous vexation about his horse, which is hid from him; but this is nothing to the
purpose, or only proves that Falstaff knew no terror equal to that of walking eight yards of
uneven ground. But on occasion of Gadshill’s being asked concerning the number of the travellers,
and having reported that they were eight or ten, Falstaff exclaims, “Zounds! will they not
rob us!” If he had said more seriously, “I doubt they will be too hard for us,”—he would then
have only used the Prince’s own words upon a less alarming occasion. This cannot need defence.
But the Prince, in his usual stile of mirth, replies, “What a Coward, Sir John Paunch!” To
this one would naturally expect from Falstaff some light answer; but we are surprized with
a very serious one;—“I am not indeed JOHN OF GAUNT your grandfather, but yet no COWARD, HAL.”
This is singular: It contains, I think, the true character of Falstaff; and it seems to be
thrown out here, at a very critical conjuncture, as a caution to the audience not to take too
sadly what was intended only (to use the Prince’s words) “as argument for a week, laughter
for a month, and a good jest for ever after.” The whole of Falstaff’s past life could not,
it should seem, furnish the Prince with a reply, and he is, therefore, obliged to draw upon
the coming hope. “Well,” says he, mysteriously, “let the event try”; meaning the event of the
concerted attack on Falstaff; an event so probable, that he might indeed venture to rely on
it.—But the travellers approach: The Prince hastily proposes a division of strength; that he
with Poins should take a station separate from the rest, so that if the travellers should escape
one party, they might light on the other: Falstaff does not object, though he supposes the
travellers to be eight or ten in number. We next see Falstaff attack these travellers with
alacrity, using the accustomed words of threat and terror;—they make no resistance, and he
binds and robs them.

Hitherto I think there has not appeared the least trait either of boast or fear in Falstaff.
But now comes on the concerted transaction, which has been the source of so much dishonour.

We have now gone through this transaction considered simply on its own circumstances, and without
reference to any future boast or imputation. It is upon these circumstances the case must be
tried, and every colour subsequently thrown upon it, either by wit or folly, ought to be discharged.
Take it, then, as it stands hitherto, with reference only to its own preceding and concomitant
circumstances, and to the unbounded ability of Shakespeare to obtain his own ends, and we must,
I think, be compelled to confess that this transaction was never intended by Shakespeare to
detect and expose the false pretences of a real Coward; but, on the contrary, to involve a
man of allowed Courage, though in other respects of a very peculiar character, in such circumstances
and suspicions of Cowardice as might, by the operation of those peculiarities, produce afterwards
much temporary mirth among his familiar and intimate companions: Of this we cannot require
a stronger proof than the great attention which is paid to the decorum and truth of character
in the stage direction already quoted: It appears, from thence, that it was not thought decent
that Falstaff should run at all, until he had been deserted by his companions, and had even
afterwards exchanged blows with his assailants;—and thus, a just distinction is kept up between
the natural Cowardice of the three associates and the accidental Terror of Falstaff.

Hitherto, then, I think it is very clear that no laughter either is, or is intended to be,
raised upon the score of Falstaff’s Cowardice. For after all, it is not singularly ridiculous
that an old inactive man of no boast, as far as appears, or extraordinary pretensions to valour,
should endeavour to save himself by flight from the assault of two bold and vigorous assailants.
The very Players, who are, I think, the very worst judges of Shakespeare, have been made sensible,
I suppose from long experience, that there is nothing in this transaction to excite any extraordinary
laughter; but this they take to be a defect in the management of their author, and therefore
I imagine it is, that they hold themselves obliged to supply the vacancy, and fill it up with
some low buffoonery of their own. Instead of the dispatch necessary on this occasion, they
bring Falstaff, stuffing and all, to the very front of the stage; where, with much mummery
and grimace, he seats himself down, with a canvas money-bag in his hand, to divide the spoil.
In this situation he is attacked by the Prince and Poins, whose tin swords hang idly in the
air and delay to strike till the Player Falstaff, who seems more troubled with flatulence than
fear, is able to rise: which is not till after some ineffectual efforts, and with the assistance
(to the best of my memory) of one of the thieves, who lingers behind, in spite of terror, for
this friendly purpose; after which, without any resistance on his part, he is goaded off the
stage like a fat ox for slaughter by these stony-hearted drivers in buckram. I think he does
not roar;—perhaps the player had never perfected himself in the tones of a bull-calf. This
whole transaction should be shewn between the interstices of a back scene: The less we see
in such cases, the better we conceive. Something of resistance and afterwards of celerity in
flight we should be made witnesses of; the roar we should take on the credit of Poins. Nor
is there any occasion for all that bolstering with which they fill up the figure of Falstaff;
they do not distinguish betwixt humourous exaggeration and necessary truth. The Prince is called
starveling, dried neat’s tongue, stock-fish, and other names of the same nature. They might
with almost as good reason search the glass-houses for some exhausted stoker to furnish out
a Prince of Wales of sufficient correspondence to this picture.

We next come to the scene of Falstaff’s braggadocioes. I have already wandered too much into
details; yet I must, however, bring Falstaff forward to this last scene of trial in all his
proper colouring and proportions. The progressive discovery of Falstaff’s character is excellently
managed.—In the first scene we become acquainted with his figure, which we must in some degree
consider as a part of his character; we hear of his gluttony and his debaucheries, and become
witnesses of that indistinguishable mixture of humour and licentiousness which runs through
his whole character; but what we are principally struck with, is the ease of his manners and
deportment, and the unaffected freedom and wonderful pregnancy of his wit and humour. We see
him, in the next scene, agitated with vexation: His horse is concealed from him, and he gives
on this occasion so striking a description of his distress, and his words so labour and are
so loaded with heat and vapour, that, but for laughing, we should pity him; laugh, however,
we must at the extreme incongruity of a man, at once corpulent and old, associating with youth
in an enterprize demanding the utmost extravagance of spirit, and all the wildness of activity:
And this it is which make his complaints so truly ridiculous. “Give me my horse!” says he,
in another spirit than that of Richard; “Eight yards of uneven ground,” adds this Forrester
of Diana, this enterprising gentleman of the shade, “is threescore and ten miles A-FOOT with
me.”—In the heat and agitation of the robbery, out comes more and more extravagant instances
of incongruity. Though he is most probably older and much fatter than either of the travellers,
yet he calls them, Bacons, Bacon-fed, and gorbellied knaves: “Hang them,” says he, “fat chuffs,
they hate us youth: What! young men, must live:—You are grand Jurors, are ye? We’ll jure ye,
i’ faith.” But, as yet, we do not see the whole length and breadth of him: This is reserved
for the braggadocio scene. We expect entertainment, but we don’t well know of what kind. Poins,
by his prediction, has given us a hint: But we do not see or feel Falstaff to be a Coward,
much less a boaster; without which even Cowardice is not sufficiently ridiculous; and therefore
it is, that on the stage we find them always connected. In this uncertainty on our part, he
is, with much artful preparation, produced.—His entrance is delayed to stimulate our expectation;
and, at last, to take off the dullness of anticipation, and to add surprize to pleasure, he
is called in, as if for another purpose of mirth than what we are furnished with: We now behold
him, fluctuating with fiction, and labouring with dissembled passion and chagrin: Too full
for utterance, Poins provokes him by a few simple words, containing a fine contrast of affected
ease,—“Welcome, JACK, where hast thou been?” But when we hear him burst forth, “A plague on
all Cowards! Give me a cup of sack. Is there no virtue extant!”—We are at once in possession
of the whole man, and are ready to hug him, guts, lyes and all, as an inexhaustible fund of
pleasantry and humour. Cowardice, I apprehend, is out of our thought; it does not, I think,
mingle in our mirth. As to this point, I have presumed to say already, and I repeat it, that
we are, in my opinion, the dupes of our own wisdom, of systematic reasoning, of second thought,
and after reflection. The first spectators, I believe, thought of nothing but the laughable
scrape which so singular a character was falling into, and were delighted to see a humourous
and unprincipled wit so happily taken in his own inventions, precluded from all rational defence,
and driven to the necessity of crying out, after a few ludicrous evasions, “No more of that,
HAL, if thou lov’st me.”

I do not conceive myself obliged to enter into a consideration of Falstaff’s lyes concerning
the transaction at Gad’s-Hill. I have considered his conduct as independent of those lyes;
I have examined the whole of it apart, and found it free of Cowardice or fear, except in one
instance, which I have endeavoured to account for and excuse. I have therefore a right to infer
that those lyes are to be derived, not from Cowardice, but from some other part of his character,
which it does not concern me to examine: But I have not contented myself hitherto with this
sort of negative defence; and the reader I believe is aware that I am resolute (though I confess
not untired) to carry this fat rogue out of the reach of every imputation which affects, or
may seem to affect, his natural Courage.

The first observation then which strikes us, as to his braggadocioes, is, that they are braggadocioes
after the fact. In other cases we see the Coward of the Play bluster and boast for a time,
talk of distant wars, and private duels, out of the reach of knowledge and of evidence; of
storms and stratagems, and of falling in upon the enemy pell-mell and putting thousands to
the sword; till, at length, on the proof of some present and apparent fact, he is brought to
open and lasting shame; to shame I mean as a Coward; for as to what there is of lyar in the
case, it is considered only as accessory, and scarcely reckoned into the account of dishonour.—But
in the instance before us, every thing is reversed: The Play opens with the Fact; a Fact, from
its circumstances as well as from the age and inactivity of the man, very excusable and capable
of much apology, if not of defence. This Fact is preceded by no bluster or pretence whatever;—the
lyes and braggadocioes follow; but they are not general; they are confined and have reference
to this one Fact only; the detection is immediate; and after some accompanying mirth and laughter,
the shame of that detection ends; it has no duration, as in other cases; and, for the rest
of the Play, the character stands just where it did before, without any punishment or degradation
whatever.

To account for all this, let us only suppose that Falstaff was a man of natural Courage, though
in all respects unprincipled; but that he was surprized in one single instance into an act
of real terror; which, instead of excusing upon circumstances, he endeavours to cover by lyes
and braggadocio; and that these lyes become thereupon the subject, in this place, of detection.
Upon these suppositions the whole difficulty will vanish at once, and every thing be natural,
common, and plain. The Fact itself will be of course excusable; that is, it will arise out
of a combination of such circumstances as, being applicable to one case only, will not destroy
the general character: It will not be preceded by any braggadocio, containing any fair indication
of Cowardice; as real Cowardice is not supposed to exist in the character. But the first act
of real or apparent Cowardice would naturally throw a vain unprincipled man into the use of
lyes and braggadocio; but these would have reference only to the Fact in question, and not
apply to other cases or infect his general character, which is not supposed to stand in need
of imposition. Again,—the detection of Cowardice, as such, is more diverting after a long and
various course of Pretence, where the lye of character is preserved, as it were, whole, and
brought into sufficient magnitude for a burst of discovery; yet, mere occasional lyes, such
as Falstaff is hereby supposed to utter, are, for the purpose of sport, best detected in the
telling; because, indeed, they cannot be preserved for a future time; the exigence and the
humour will be past: But the shame arising to Falstaff from the detection of mere lyes would
be temporary only; his character as to this point, being already known, and tolerated for the
humour. Nothing, therefore, could follow but mirth and laughter, and the temporary triumph
of baffling a wit at his own weapons, and reducing him to an absolute surrender: After which,
we ought not to be surprized if we see him rise again, like a boy from play, and run another
race with as little dishonour as before.

What then can we say, but that it is clearly the lyes only, not the Cowardice, of Falstaff
which are here detected: Lyes, to which what there may be of Cowardice is incidental only,
improving indeed the Jest, but by no means the real Business of the scene.—And now also we
may more clearly discern the true force and meaning of Poin’s prediction. “The Jest will be,”
says he, “the incomprehensible Lyes that this fat rogue will tell us: How thirty at least he
fought with:—and in the reproof of this lyes the jest”; That is, in the detection of these
lyes simply; for as to Courage, he had never ventured to insinuate more than that Falstaff
would not fight longer than he saw cause: Poins was in expectation indeed that Falstaff would
fall into some dishonour on this occasion; an event highly probable: But this was not, it seems,
to be the principal ground of their mirth, but the detection of those incomprehensible lyes,
which he boldly predicts, upon his knowledge of Falstaff’s character, this fat rogue, not Coward,
would tell them. This prediction therefore, and the completion of it, go only to the impeachment
of Falstaff’s veracity, and not of his Courage. Indeed nothing seems to have been required
of Falstaff at any period of time but a good evasion. The truth is, that there is so much mirth,
and so little of malice or imposition in his fictions, that they may for the most part be considered
as mere strains of humour and exercises of wit, impeachable only for defect, when that happens,
of the quality from which they are principally derived. Upon this occasion Falstaff’s evasions
fail him; he is at the end of his invention; and it seems fair that, in defect of wit, the
law should pass upon him, and that he should undergo the temporary censure of that Cowardice
which he could not pass off by any evasion whatever. The best he could think of, was instinct:
He was indeed a Coward upon instinct; in that respect like a valiant lion, who would not touch
the true Prince. It would have been a vain attempt, the reader will easily perceive, in Falstaff,
to have gone upon other ground, and to have aimed at justifying his Courage by a serious vindication:
This would have been to have mistaken the true point of argument: It was his lyes, not his
Courage, which was really in question. There was besides no getting out of the toils in which
he had entangled himself: If he was not, he ought at least, by his own shewing, to have been
at half-sword with a dozen of them two hours together; whereas, it unfortunately appears, and
that too evidently to be evaded, that he had run with singular celerity from two, after the
exchange of a few  blows only. This precluded Falstaff from all rational defence in his own
person;—but it has not precluded me, who am not the advocate of his lyes, but of his Courage.

But there are other singularities in Falstaff’s lyes, which go more directly to his vindication.—That
they are confined to one scene and one occasion only, we are not now at a loss to account for;—but
what shall we say to their extravagance? The lyes of Parolles and Bobadill are brought into
some shape; but the fictions of Falstaff are so preposterous and incomprehensible, that one
may fairly doubt if they ever were intended for credit; and therefore, if they ought to be
called lyes, and not rather humour; or, to compound the matter, humourous rhodomontades. Certain
it is, that they destroy their own purpose, and are clearly not the effect, in this respect,
of a regulated practice, and a habit of imposition. The real truth seems to be, that had Falstaff,
loose and unprincipled as he is, been born a Coward and bred a Soldier, he must, naturally,
have been a great Braggadocio, a true miles gloriosus. But in such case he should have been
exhibited active and young; for it is plain that age and corpulency are an excuse for Cowardice,
which ought not to be afforded him. In the present case, wherein he was not only involved in
suspicious circumstances, but wherein he seems to have felt some conscious touch of infirmity,
and having no candid construction to expect from his laughing companions, he bursts at once,
and with all his might, into the most unweighed and preposterous fictions, determined to put
to proof on this occasion his boasted talent of swearing truth out of England. He tried it
here, to its utmost extent, and was unfortunately routed on his own ground; which indeed, with
such a mine beneath his feet, could not be otherwise. But without this, he had mingled in his
deceits so much whimsical humour and fantastic exaggeration that he must have been detected;
and herein appears the admirable address of Shakespeare, who can shew us Falstaff in the various
light, not only of what he is, but what he would have been under one single variation of character,—the
want of natural Courage; whilst with an art not enough understood, he most effectually preserves
the real character of Falstaff even in the moment he seems to depart from it, by making his
lyes too extravagant for practised imposition; by grounding them more upon humour than deceit;
and turning them, as we shall next see, into a fair and honest proof of general Courage, by
appropriating them to the concealment only of a single exception. And hence it is, that we
see him draw so deeply and so confidently upon his former credit for Courage and atchievment:
“I never dealt better in my life,—thou know’st my old ward, Hal,” are expressions which clearly
refer to some known feats and defences of his former life. If before this period he had been
a known and detected Coward, and was conscious that he had no credit to lose, I see no reason
why he should fly so violently from a familiar ignominy which had often before attacked him;
or why falshoods, seemingly in such a case neither calculated for or expecting credit, should
be censured, or detected, as lyes or imposition.

That the whole transaction was considered as a mere jest, and as carrying with it no serious
imputation on the Courage of Falstaff, is manifest, not only from his being allowed, when the
laugh was past, to call himself, without contradiction in the personated character of Hal himself,
“valiant Jack Falstaff, and the more VALIANT being, as he is, old Jack Falstaff,” but from
various other particulars, and, above all, from the declaration, which the Prince makes on
that very night, of his intention of procuring this fat rogue a Charge of foot;—a circumstance,
doubtless, contrived by Shakespeare to wipe off the seeming dishonour of the day: And from
this time forward we hear of no imputation arising from this transaction; it is born and dies
in a convivial hour; it leaves no trace behind, nor do we see any longer in the character of
Falstaff the boasting or braggadocio of a Coward.

Tho’ I have considered Falstaff’s character as relative only to one single quality, yet so
much has been said, that it cannot escape the reader’s notice that he is a character made up
by Shakespeare wholly of incongruities;—a man at once young and old, enterprizing and fat,
a dupe and a wit, harmless and wicked, weak in principle and resolute by constitution, cowardly
in appearance and brave in reality; a knave without malice, a lyar without deceit; and a knight,
a gentleman, and a soldier, without either dignity, decency, or honour: This is a character,
which, though it may be de-compounded, could not, I believe, have been formed, nor the ingredients
of it duly mingled, upon any receipt whatever: It required the hand of Shakespeare himself
to give to every particular part a relish of the whole, and of the whole to every particular
part;—alike the same incongruous, identical Falstaff, whether to the grave Chief Justice he
vainly talks of his youth, and offers to caper for a thousand; or cries to Mrs. Doll, “I am
old, I am old,” though she is seated on his lap, and he is courting her for busses. How Shakespeare
could furnish out sentiment of so extraordinary a composition, and supply it with such appropriated
and characteristic language, humour and wit, I cannot tell; but I may, however, venture to
infer, and that confidently, that he who so well understood the uses of incongruity, and that
laughter was to be raised by the opposition of qualities in the same man, and not by their
agreement or conformity, would never have attempted to raise mirth by shewing us Cowardice
in a Coward unattended by Pretence, and softened by every excuse of age, corpulence, and infirmity:
And of this we cannot have a more striking proof than his furnishing this very character, on
one instance of real terror, however excusable, with boast, braggadocio, and pretence, exceeding
that of all other stage Cowards the whole length of his superior wit, humour, and invention.

What then upon the whole shall be said but that Shakespeare has made certain Impressions, or
produced certain effects, of which he has thought fit to conceal or obscure the cause? How
he has done this, and for what special ends, we shall now presume to guess.—Before the period
in which Shakespeare wrote, the fools and Zanys of the stage were drawn out of the coarsest
and cheapest materials: Some essential folly, with a dash of knave and coxcomb, did the feat.
But Shakespeare, who delighted in difficulties, was resolved to furnish a richer repast, and
to give to one eminent buffoon the high relish of wit, humour, birth, dignity, and Courage.
But this was a process which required the nicest hand, and the utmost management and address:
These enumerated qualities are, in their own nature, productive of respect; an Impression the
most opposite to laughter that can be. This Impression then, it was, at all adventures, necessary
to with-hold; which could not perhaps well be without dressing up these qualities in fantastic
forms, and colours not their own; and thereby cheating the eye with shews of baseness and of
folly, whilst he stole as it were upon the palate a richer and a fuller goût. To this end,
what arts, what contrivances, has he not practised! How has he steeped this singular character
in bad habits for fifty years together, and brought him forth saturated with every folly and
with every vice not destructive of his essential character, or incompatible with his own primary
design! For this end, he has deprived Falstaff of every good principle; and for another, which
will be presently mentioned, he has concealed every bad one. He has given him also every infirmity
of body that is not likely to awaken our compassion, and which is most proper to render both
his better qualities and his vices ridiculous: he has associated levity and debauch with age,
corpulence and inactivity with courage, and has roguishly coupled the gout with Military honours,
and a pension with the pox. He has likewise involved this character in situations, out of which
neither wit nor Courage can extricate him with honour. The surprize at Gads-Hill might have
betrayed a hero into flight, and the encounter with Douglas left him no choice but death or
stratagem. If he plays an after-game, and endeavours to redeem his ill fortune by lies and
braggadocio, his ground fails him; no wit, no evasion will avail: Or is he likely to appear
respectable in his person, rank, and demeanor, how is that respect abated or discharged! Shakespeare
has given him a kind of state indeed; but of what is it composed? Of that fustian cowardly
rascal Pistol, and his yoke-fellow of few words, the equally deed-less Nym; of his cup-bearer
the fiery Trigon, whose zeal burns in his nose, Bardolph; and of the boy, who bears the purse
with seven groats and two-pence;—a boy who was given him on purpose to set him off, and whom
he walks before, according to his own description, “like a sow that had overwhelmed all her
litter but one.”

But it was not enough to render Falstaff ridiculous in his figure, situations, and equipage;
still his respectable qualities would have come forth, at least occasionally, to spoil our
mirth; or they might have burst the intervention of such slight impediments, and have every
where shone through: It was necessary then to go farther, and throw on him that substantial
ridicule, which only the incongruities of real vice can furnish; of vice, which was to be so
mixed and blended with his frame as to give a durable character and colour to the whole.

But it may here be necessary to detain the reader a moment in order to apprize him of my further
intention; without which, I might hazard that good understanding, which I hope has hitherto
been preserved between us.

I have ’till now looked only to the Courage of Falstaff, a quality which, having been denied,
in terms, to belong to his constitution, I have endeavoured to vindicate to the Understandings
of my readers; the Impression on their Feelings (in which all Dramatic truth consists) being
already, as I have supposed, in favour of the character. In the pursuit of this subject I have
taken the general Impression of the whole character pretty much, I suppose, like other men;
and, when occasion has required, have so transmitted it to the reader; joining in the common
Feeling of Falstaff’s pleasantry, his apparent freedom from ill principle, and his companionable
wit and good humour: With a stage character, in the article of exhibition, we have nothing
more to do; for in fact what is it but an Impression; an appearance, which we are to consider
as a reality, and which we may venture to applaud or condemn as such, without further inquiry
or investigation? But if we would account for our Impressions, or for certain sentiments or
actions in a character, not derived from its apparent principles, yet appearing, we know not
why, natural, we are then compelled to look farther, and examine if there be not something
more in the character than is shewn; something inferred, which is not brought under our special
notice: In short, we must look to the art of the writer, and to the principles of human nature,
to discover the hidden causes of such effects.—Now this is a very different matter.—The former
considerations respected the Impression only, without regard to the Understanding; but this
question relates to the Understanding alone. It is true that there are but few Dramatic characters
which will bear this kind of investigation, as not being drawn in exact conformity to those
principles of general nature to which we must refer. But this is not the case with regard to
the characters of Shakespeare; they are struck out whole, by some happy art which I cannot
clearly comprehend, out of the general mass of things, from the block as it were of nature:
And it is, I think, an easier thing to give a just draught of man from these Theatric forms,
which I cannot help considering as originals, than by drawing from real life, amidst so much
intricacy, obliquity, and disguise. If therefore, for further proofs of Falstaff’s Courage,
or for the sake of curious speculation, or for both, I change my position, and look to causes
instead of effects, the reader must not be surprized if he finds the former Falstaff vanish
like a dream, and another, of more disgustful form, presented to his view; one whose final
punishment we shall be so far from regretting, that we ourselves shall be ready to consign
him to a severer doom.

The reader will very easily apprehend that a character, which we might wholly disapprove of,
considered as existing in human life, may yet be thrown on the stage into certain peculiar
situations, and be compressed by external influences into such temporary appearances, as may
render such character for a time highly acceptable and entertaining, and even more distinguished
for qualities, which on this supposition would be accidents only, than another character really
possessing those qualities, but which, under the pressure of the same situation and influences,
would be distorted into a different form, or totally left in timidity and weakness. If therefore
the character before us will admit of this kind of investigation, our Inquiry will not be without
some dignity, considered as extending to the principles of human nature, and to the genius
and arts of Him, who has best caught every various form of the human mind, and transmitted
them with the greatest happiness and fidelity.

To return then to the vices of Falstaff.—We have frequently referred to them under the name
of ill habits;—but perhaps the reader is not fully aware how very vicious he indeed is;—he
is a robber, a glutton, a cheat, a drunkard, and a lyar; lascivious, vain, insolent, profligate,
and profane:—A fine infusion this, and such as without very excellent cookery must have thrown
into the dish a great deal too much of the fumet. It was a nice operation;—these vices were
not only to be of a particular sort, but it was also necessary to guard them at both ends;
on the one, from all appearance of malicious motive, and indeed from the manifestation of any
ill principle whatever, which must have produced disgust,—a sensation no less opposite to laughter
than is respect;—and, on the other, from the notice, or even apprehension, in the spectators,
of pernicious effect; which produces grief and terror, and is the proper province of Tragedy alone.

Actions cannot with strict propriety be said to be either virtuous or vicious. These qualities,
or attributes, belong to agents only; and are derived, even in respect to them, from intention
alone. The abstracting of qualities, and considering them as independent of any subject, and
the applying of them afterwards to actions independent of the agent, is a double operation
which I do not pretend, thro’ any part of it, to understand. All actions may most properly,
in their own nature, I think, be called neutral; tho’ in common discourse, and in writing where
perfection is not requisite, we often term them vicious, transferring on these occasions the
attributive from the agent to the action; and sometimes we call them evil, or of pernicious
effect, by transferring, in like manner, the injuries incidentally arising from certain actions
to the life, happiness, or interest of human beings, to the natural operation, whether moral
or physical, of the actions themselves: One is a colour thrown on them by the intention, in
which I think consists all moral turpitude, and the other by effect: If therefore a Dramatic
writer will use certain managements to keep vicious intention as much as possible from our
notice, and make us sensible that no evil effect follows, he may pass off actions of very vicious
motive, without much ill impression, as mere incongruities, and the effect of humour only;—words
these, which, as applied to human conduct, are employed, I believe, to cover a great deal of
what may deserve much harder appellation.

The difference between suffering an evil effect to take place, and of preventing such effect,
from actions precisely of the same nature, is so great, that it is often all the difference
between Tragedy and Comedy. The Fine gentleman of the Comic scene, who so promptly draws his
sword, and wounds, without killing, some other gentleman of the same sort; and He of Tragedy,
whose stabs are mortal, differ very frequently in no other point whatever. If our Falstaff
had really peppered (as he calls it) two rogues in buckram suits, we must have looked for a
very different conclusion, and have expected to have found Falstaff’s Essential prose converted
into blank verse, and to have seen him move off, in slow and measured paces, like the City
Prentice to the tolling of a Passing bell;—“he would have become a cart as well as another,
or a plague on his bringing up.”

Every incongruity in a rational being is a source of laughter, whether it respects manners,
sentiments, conduct, or even dress, or situation;—but the greatest of all possible incongruity
is vice, whether in the intention itself, or as transferred to, and becoming more manifest
in action;—it is inconsistent with moral agency, nay, with rationality itself, and all the
ends and purposes of our being.—Our author describes the natural ridicule of vice in his MEASURE
for MEASURE in the strongest terms, where, after having made the angels weep over the vices
of men, he adds, that with our spleens they might laugh themselves quite mortal. Indeed if
we had a perfect discernment of the ends of this life only, and could preserve ourselves from
sympathy, disgust, and terror, the vices of mankind would be a source of perpetual entertainment.
The great difference between Heraclitus and Democritus lay, it seems, in their spleen only;—for
a wise and good man must either laugh or cry without ceasing. Nor indeed is it easy to conceive
(to instance in one case only) a more laughable, or a more melancholy object, than a human
being, his nature and duration considered, earnestly and anxiously exchanging peace of mind
and conscious integrity for gold; and for gold too, which he has often no occasion for, or
dares not employ:—But Voltaire has by one Publication rendered all arguments superfluous: He
has told us, in his Candide, the merriest and most diverting tale of frauds, murders, massacres,
rapes, rapine, desolation, and destruction, that I think it possible on any other plan to invent;
and he has given us motive and effect, with every possible aggravation, to improve the sport.
One would think it difficult to preserve the point of ridicule, in such a case, unabated by
contrary emotions; but now that the feat is performed it appears of easy imitation, and I am
amazed that our race of imitators have made no efforts in this sort: It would answer I should
think in the way of profit, not to mention the moral uses to which it might be applied. The
managements of Voltaire consists in this, that he assumes a gay, easy, and light tone himself;
that he never excites the reflections of his readers by making any of his own; that he hurries
us on with such a rapidity of narration as prevents our emotions from resting on any particular
point; and to gain this end, he has interwoven the conclusion of one fact so into the commencement
of another, that we find ourselves engaged in new matter before we are sensible that we had
finished the old; he has likewise made his crimes so enormous, that we do not sadden on any
sympathy, or find ourselves partakers in the guilt.—But what is truly singular as to this book,
is, that it does not appear to have been written for any moral purpose, but for That only (if
I do not err) of satyrising Providence itself; a design so enormously profane, that it may
well pass for the most ridiculous part of the whole composition.

But if vice, divested of disgust and terror, is thus in its own nature ridiculous, we ought
not to be surprized if the very same vices which spread horror and desolation thro’ the Tragic
scene should yet furnish the Comic with its highest laughter and delight, and that tears, and
mirth, and even humour and wit itself, should grow from the same root of incongruity: For what
is humour in the humourist, but incongruity, whether of sentiment, conduct, or manners? What
in the man of humour, but a quick discernment and keen sensibility of these incongruities?
And what is wit itself, without presuming however to give a complete definition where so many
have failed, but a talent, for the most part, of marking with force and vivacity unexpected
points of likeness in things supposed incongruous, and points of incongruity in things supposed
alike: And hence it is that wit and humour, tho’ always distinguished, are so often coupled
together; it being very possible, I suppose, to be a man of humour without wit; but I think
not a man of wit without humour.

But I have here raised so much new matter, that the reader may be out of hope of seeing this
argument, any more than the tale of Tristram, brought to a conclusion: He may suppose me now
prepared to turn my pen to a moral, or to a dramatic Essay, or ready to draw the line between
vice and virtue, or Comedy and Tragedy, as fancy shall lead the way;—But he is happily mistaken;
I am pressing earnestly, and not without some impatience, to a conclusion. The principles I
have now opened are necessary to be considered for the purpose of estimating the character
of Falstaff, considered as relatively to human nature: I shall then reduce him with all possible
dispatch to his Theatric condition, and restore him, I hope, without injury, to the stage.

There is indeed a vein or two of argument running through the matter that now surrounds me,
which I might open for my own more peculiar purposes; but which, having resisted much greater
temptations, I shall wholly desert. It ought not, however, to be forgotten, that if Shakespeare
has used arts to abate our respect of Falstaff, it should follow by just inference, that, without
such arts, his character would have grown into a respect inconsistent with laughter; and that
yet, without Courage, he could not have been respectable at all;—that it required nothing less
than the union of ability and Courage to support his other more accidental qualities with any
tolerable coherence. Courage and Ability are first principles of Character, and not to be destroyed
whilst the united frame of body and mind continues whole and unimpaired; they are the pillars
on which he stands firm in spight of all his vices and disgraces;—but if we should take Courage
away, and reckon Cowardice among his other defects, all the intelligence and wit in the world
could not support him through a single Play.

The effect of taking away the influence of this quality upon the manners of a character, tho’
the quality and the influence be assumed only, is evident in the cases of Parolles and Bobadil.
Parolles, at least, did not seem to want wit; but both these characters are reduced almost
to non-entity, and, after their disgraces, walk only thro’ a scene or two, the mere mockery
of their former existence. Parolles was so changed, that neither the fool, nor the old lord
Le-feu, could readily recollect his person; and his wit seemed to be annihilated with his Courage.

Let it not be here objected that Falstaff is universally considered as a Coward;—we do indeed
call him so; but that is nothing, if the character itself does not act from any consciousness
of this kind, and if our Feelings take his part, and revolt against our understanding.

As to the arts by which Shakespeare has contrived to obscure the vices of Falstaff, they are
such as, being subservient only to the mirth of the Play, I do not feel myself obliged to detail.

But it may be well worth our curiosity to inquire into the composition of Falstaff’s character.—Every
man we may observe has two characters; that is, every man may be seen externally, and from
without;—or a section may be made of him, and he may be illuminated from within.

Of the external character of Falstaff, we can scarcely be said to have any steady view. Jack
Falstaff we are familiar with, but Sir John was better known, it seems, to the rest of Europe,
than to his intimate companions; yet we have so many glimpses of him, and he is opened to us
occasionally in such various points of view, that we cannot be mistaken in describing him as
a man of birth and fashion, bred up in all the learning and accomplishments of the times;—of
ability and Courage equal to any situation, and capable by nature of the highest affairs; trained
to arms, and possessing the tone, the deportment, and the manners of a gentleman;—but yet these
accomplishments and advantages seem to hang loose on him, and to be worn with a slovenly carelessness
and inattention: A too great indulgence of the qualities of humour and wit seems to draw him
too much one way, and to destroy the grace and orderly arrangement of his other accomplishments;—and
hence he becomes strongly marked for one advantage, to the injury, and almost forgetfulness
in the beholder, of all the rest. Some of his vices likewise strike through, and stain his
Exterior;—his modes of speech betray a certain licentiousness of mind; and that high Aristocratic
tone which belonged to his situation was pushed on, and aggravated into unfeeling insolence
and oppression. “It is not a confirmed brow,” says the Chief Justice, “nor the throng of words
that come with such more than impudent sauciness from you, can thrust me from a level consideration”:
“My lord,” answers Falstaff, “you call honourable boldness impudent sauciness. If a man will
court’sie and say nothing, he is virtuous: No, my lord, my humble duty remembered, I will not
be your suitor. I say to you I desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty employment
in the King’s affairs.” “You speak,” replies the Chief Justice, “as having power to do wrong.”—His
whole behaviour to the Chief Justice, whom he despairs of winning by flattery, is singularly
insolent; and the reader will remember many instances of his insolence to others: Nor are his
manners always free from the taint of vulgar society;—“This is the right fencing grace, my
lord,” says he to the Chief Justice, with great impropriety of manners, “tap for tap, and so
part fair”: “Now the lord lighten thee,” is the reflection of the Chief Justice, “thou art
a very great fool.”—Such a character as I have here described, strengthened with that vigour,
force, and alacrity of mind, of which he is possessed, must have spread terror and dismay thro’
the ignorant, the timid, the modest, and the weak: Yet is he however, when occasion requires,
capable of much accommodation and flattery;—and in order to obtain the protection and patronage
of the great, so convenient to his vices and his poverty, he was put under the daily necessity
of practising and improving these arts; a baseness which he compensates to himself, like other
unprincipled men, by an increase of insolence towards his inferiors.—There is also a natural
activity about Falstaff which, for want of proper employment, shews itself in a kind of swell
or bustle, which seems to correspond with his bulk, as if his mind had inflated his body, and
demanded a habitation of no less circumference: Thus conditioned he rolls (in the language
of Ossian) like a Whale of Ocean, scattering the smaller fry; but affording, in his turn, noble
contention to Hal and Poins; who, to keep up the allusion, I may be allowed on this occasion
to compare to the Thresher and the Sword-fish.

To this part of Falstaff’s character, many things which he does and says, and which appear
unaccountably natural, are to be referred.

We are next to see him from within: And here we shall behold him most villainously unprincipled
and debauched; possessing indeed the same Courage and ability, yet stained with numerous vices,
unsuited not only to his primary qualities, but to his age, corpulency, rank, and profession;—reduced
by these vices to a state of dependence, yet resolutely bent to indulge them at any price.
These vices have been already enumerated; they are many, and become still more intolerable
by an excess of unfeeling insolence on one hand, and of base accommodation on the other.

But what then, after all, is become of old Jack? Is this the jovial delightful companion—Falstaff,
the favourite and the boast of the Stage?—by no means. But it is, I think however, the Falstaff
of Nature; the very stuff out of which the Stage Falstaff is composed; nor was it possible,
I believe, out of any other materials he could have been formed. From this disagreeable draught
we shall be able, I trust, by a proper disposition of light and shade, and from the influence
of compression of external things, to produce plump Jack, the life of humour, the spirit of
pleasantry, and the soul of mirth.

To this end, Falstaff must no longer be considered as a single independent character, but grouped,
as we find him shewn to us in the Play;—his ability must be disgraced by buffoonery, and his
Courage by circumstances of imputation; and those qualities be thereupon reduced into subjects
of mirth and laughter:—His vices must be concealed at each end from vicious design and evil
effect, and must thereupon be turned into incongruities, and assume the name of humour only;—his
insolence must be repressed by the superior tone of Hal and Poins, and take the softer name
of spirit only, or alacrity of mind;—his state of dependence, his temper of accommodation,
and his activity, must fall in precisely with the indulgence of his humours; that is, he must
thrive best and flatter most, by being extravagantly incongruous; and his own tendency, impelled
by so much activity, will carry him with perfect ease and freedom to all the necessary excesses.
But why, it may be asked, should incongruities recommend Falstaff to the favour of the Prince?—Because
the Prince is supposed to possess a high relish of humour and to have a temper and a force
about him, which, whatever was his pursuit, delighted in excess. This, Falstaff is supposed
perfectly to comprehend; and thereupon not only to indulge himself in all kinds of incongruity,
but to lend out his own superior wit and humour against himself, and to heighten the ridicule
by all the tricks and arts of buffoonery for which his corpulence, his age, and situation,
furnish such excellent materials. This compleats the Dramatic character of Falstaff, and gives
him that appearance of perfect good-nature, pleasantry, mellowness, and hilarity of mind, for
which we admire and almost love him, tho’ we feel certain reserves which forbid our going that
length; the true reason of which is, that there will be always found a difference between mere
appearances and reality: Nor are we, nor can we be, insensible that whenever the action of
external influence upon him is in whole or in part relaxed, the character restores itself proportionably
to its more unpleasing condition.

A character really possessing the qualities which are on the stage imputed to Falstaff, would
be best shewn by its own natural energy; the least compression would disorder it, and make
us feel for it all the pain of sympathy: It is the artificial condition of Falstaff which is
the source of our delight; we enjoy his distresses, we gird at him ourselves, and urge the
sport without the least alloy of compassion; and we give him, when the laugh is over, undeserved
credit for the pleasure we enjoyed. If any one thinks that these observations are the effect
of too much refinement, and that there was in truth more of chance in the case than of management
or design, let him try his own luck;—perhaps he may draw out of the wheel of fortune a Macbeth,
an Othello, a Benedict, or a Falstaff.

Such, I think, is the true character of this extraordinary buffoon; and from hence we may discern
for what special purposes Shakespeare has given him talents and qualities, which were to be
afterwards obscured, and perverted to ends opposite to their nature; it was clearly to furnish
out a Stage buffoon of a peculiar sort; a kind of Game-bull which would stand the baiting thro’
a hundred Plays, and produce equal sport, whether he is pinned down occasionally by Hal or
Poins, or tosses such mongrils as Bardolph, or the Justices, sprawling in the air. There is
in truth no such thing as totally demolishing Falstaff; he has so much of the invulnerable
in his frame that no ridicule can destroy him; he is safe even in defeat, and seems to rise,
like another Antæus, with recruited vigour from every fall; in this, as in every other respect,
unlike Parolles or Bobadil: They fall by the first shaft of ridicule, but Falstaff is a butt
on which we may empty the whole quiver, whilst the substance of his character remains unimpaired.
His ill habits, and the accidents of age and corpulence, are no part of his essential constitution;
they come forward indeed on our eye, and solicit our notice, but they are second natures, not
first; mere shadows, we pursue them in vain; Falstaff himself has a distinct and separate subsistence;
he laughs at the chace, and when the sport is over, gathers them with unruffled feather under
his wing: And hence it is that he is made to undergo not one detection only, but a series of
detections; that he is not formed for one Play only, but was intended originally at least for
two; and the author, we are told, was doubtful if he should not extend him yet farther, and
engage him in the wars with France. This he might well have done, for there is nothing perishable
in the nature of Falstaff: He might have involved him, by the vicious part of his character,
in new difficulties and unlucky situations, and have enabled him, by the better part, to have
scrambled through, abiding and retorting the jests and laughter of every beholder.

But whatever we may be told concerning the intention of Shakespeare to extend this character
farther, there is a manifest preparation near the end of the second part of Henry IV. for his
disgrace: The disguise is taken off, and he begins openly to pander to the excesses of the
Prince, intitling himself to the character afterwards given him of being the tutor and the
feeder of his riots. “I will fetch off,” says he, “these Justices.—I will devise matter enough
out of this SHALLOW to keep the Prince in continual laughter the wearing out of six fashions.—If
the young DACE be a bait for the old PIKE,” (speaking with reference to his own designs upon
Shallow) “I see no reason in the law of nature but I may snap at him.”—This is shewing himself
abominably dissolute: The laborious arts of fraud, which he practises on Shallow to induce
the loan of a thousand pound, create disgust; and the more, as we are sensible this money was
never likely to be paid back, as we are told that was, of which the travellers had been robbed.
It is true we feel no pain for Shallow, he being a very bad character, as would fully appear,
if he were unfolded; but Falstaff’s deliberation in fraud is not on that account more excusable.—The
event of the old King’s death draws him out almost into detestation.—“Master ROBERT SHALLOW,
chuse what office thou wilt in the land,—’tis thine.—I am fortune’s steward.—Let us take any
man’s horses.—The laws of England are at my commandment.—Happy are they who have been my friends;—and
woe to my LORD CHIEF JUSTICE.”—After this we ought not to complain if we see Poetic justice
duly executed upon him, and that he is finally given up to shame and dishonour.

But it is remarkable that, during this process, we are not acquainted with the success of Falstaff’s
designs upon Shallow ’till the moment of his disgrace. “If I had had time,” says he to Shallow,
as the King is approaching, “to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the thousand
pounds I borrowed of you”;—and the first word he utters after this period is, “Master SHALLOW,
I owe you a thousand pounds”: We may from hence very reasonably presume, that Shakespeare meant
to connect this fraud with the punishment of Falstaff, as a more avowed ground of censure and
dishonour: Nor ought the consideration that this passage contains the most exquisite comic
humour and propriety in another view, to diminish the truth of this observation.

But however just it might be to demolish Falstaff in this way, by opening to us his bad principles,
it was by no means convenient. If we had been to have seen a single representation of him only,
it might have been proper enough; but as he was to be shewn from night to night, and from age
to age, the disgust arising from the close would by degrees have spread itself over the whole
character; reference would be had throughout to his bad principles, and he would have become
less acceptable as he was more known: And yet it was necessary to bring him, like all other
stage characters, to some conclusion. Every play must be wound up by some event, which may
shut in the characters and the action. If some hero obtains a crown, or a mistress, involving
therein the fortune of others, we are satisfied;—we do not desire to be afterwards admitted
of his council, or his bed-chamber: Or if through jealousy, causeless or well founded, another
kills a beloved wife, and himself after,—there is no more to be said;—they are dead, and there
an end; Or if in the scenes of Comedy, parties are engaged, and plots formed, for the furthering
or preventing the completion of that great article Cuckoldom, we expect to be satisfied in
the point as far as the nature of so nice a case will permit, or at least to see such a manifest
disposition as will leave us in no doubt of the event. By the bye, I cannot but think that
the Comic writers of the last age treated this matter as of more importance, and made more
bustle about it, than the temper of the present times will well bear; and it is therefore to
be hoped that the Dramatic authors of the present day, some of whom, to the best of my judgment,
are deserving of great praise, will consider and treat this business, rather as a common and
natural incident arising out of modern manners, than as worthy to be held forth as the great
object and sole end of the Play.

But whatever be the question, or whatever the character, the curtain must not only be dropt
before the eyes, but over the minds of the spectators, and nothing left for further examination
and curiosity.—But how was this to be done in regard to Falstaff? He was not involved in the
fortune of the Play; he was engaged in no action which, as to him, was to be compleated; he
had reference to no system, he was attracted to no center; he passes thro’ the Play as a lawless
meteor, and we wish to know what course he is afterwards likely to take: He is detected and
disgraced, it is true; but he lives by detection, and thrives on disgrace; and we are desirous
to see him detected and disgraced again. The Fleet might be no bad scene of further amusement;—he
carries all within him, and what matter where, if he be still the same, possessing the same
force of mind, the same wit, and the same incongruity. This, Shakespeare was fully sensible
of, and knew that this character could not be compleatly dismissed but by death.—“Our author,”
says the Epilogue to the Second Part of Henry IV., “will continue the story with Sir John in
it, and make you merry with fair Catherine of France; where, for any thing I know, Falstaff
shall dye of a sweat, unless already he be killed with your hard opinions.” If it had been
prudent in Shakespeare to have killed Falstaff with hard opinion, he had the means in his hand
to effect it;—but dye, it seems, he must, in one form or another, and a sweat would have been
no unsuitable catastrophe. However we have reason to be satisfied as it is;—his death was worthy
of his birth and of his life: “He was born,” he says, “about three o’clock in the afternoon,
with a white head, and something a round belly.” But if he came into the world in the evening
with these marks of age, he departs out of it in the morning in all the follies and vanities
of youth;—“He was shaked” (we are told) “of a burning quotidian tertian;—the young King had
run bad humours on the knight;—his heart was fracted and corroborate; and a’ parted just between
twelve and one, even at the turning of the tide, yielding the crow a pudding, and passing directly
into ARTHUR’S BOSOM, if ever man went into the bosom of ARTHUR.”—So ended this singular buffoon;
and with him ends an Essay, on which the reader is left to bestow what character he pleases:
An Essay professing to treat of the Courage of Falstaff, but extending itself to his Whole
character; to the arts and genius of his Poetic-Maker, SHAKESPEARE; and thro’ him sometimes,
with ambitious aim, even to the principles of human nature itself.

NOTES.

Nicholas Rowe.

2. Some Latin without question, etc. This passage, down to the reference to the scene in Henry
V., is omitted by Pope. Love’s Labour’s Lost, iv. 2, 95; Titus Andronicus, iv. 2, 20; Henry
V., iii. 4.

3. Deer-stealing. This tradition—which was first recorded in print by Rowe—has often been doubted.
See, however, Halliwell-Phillipps’s Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare, 1886, ii., p. 71,
and Mr. Sidney Lee’s Life of Shakespeare, pp. 27, etc.

4. the first Play he wrote. Pope inserted here the following note: “The highest date of any
I can yet find is Romeo and Juliet in 1597, when the author was 33 years old, and Richard the
2d and 3d in the next year, viz. the 34th of his age.” The two last had been printed in 1597.

Mr. Dryden seems to think that Pericles, etc. This sentence was omitted by Pope.

5. the best conversations, etc. Rowe here controverts the opinion expressed by Dryden in his
Essay on the Dramatic Poetry of the Last Age: “I cannot find that any of them had been conversant
in courts, except Ben Johnson; and his genius lay not so much that way as to make an improvement
by it. Greatness was not then so easy of access, nor conversation so free, as now it is” (Essays,
ed. W. P. Ker, i., p. 175).

A fair Vestal. Midsummer Night’s Dream, ii. 1, 158. In the original Rowe adds to his quotations
from Shakespeare the page references to his own edition.

The Merry Wives. The tradition that the Merry Wives was written at the command of Elizabeth
had been recorded already by Dennis in the preface to his version of the play,—The Comical
Gallant, or the Amours of Sir John Falstaffe (1702): “This Comedy was written at her command,
and by her direction, and she was so eager to see it acted, that she commanded it to be finished
in fourteen days; and was afterwards, as Tradition tells us, very well pleas’d at the Representation.”
Cf. Dennis’s Defence of a Regulated Stage: “she not only commanded Shakespear to write the
comedy of the Merry Wives, and to write it in ten day’s time,” etc. (Original Letters, 1721,
i., p. 232).

this part of Falstaff. Rowe is here indebted apparently to the account of John Fastolfe in
Fuller’s Worthies of England (1662). But neither in it, nor in the similar passage on Oldcastle
in the Church History of Britain (1655, Bk. IV., Cent, XV., p. 168), does Fuller say that the
name was altered at the command of the queen, on objection being made by Oldcastle’s descendants.
This may have been a tradition at Rowe’s time, as there was then apparently no printed authority
for it, but, as Halliwell-Phillips showed in his Character of Sir John Falstaff, 1841, it is
confirmed by a manuscript of about 1625, preserved in the Bodleian. Cf. also Halliwell-Phillips’s
Outlines of the Life of Shakespeare, 1886, ii., pp. 351, etc.; Richard James’s Iter Lancastrense
(Chetham Society, 1845, p. lxv.); and Ingleby’s Shakespeare’s Centurie of Prayse, 1879, pp. 164-5.

name of Oldcastle. Pope added in a footnote, “See the Epilogue to Henry 4th.”

6. Venus and Adonis. The portion of the sentence following this title was omitted by Pope because
it is inaccurate. The Rape of Lucrece also was dedicated to the Earl of Southampton. The error
is alluded to in Sewell’s preface to the seventh volume of Pope’s Shakespeare, 1725.

Eunuchs. Pope reads “Singers.”

The passage dealing with Spenser (p. 6, l. 34, to p. 7, l. 36) was omitted by Pope. But it
is interesting to know Dryden’s opinion, even though it is probably erroneous. Willy has not
yet been identified.

8. After this they were professed friends, etc. This description of Ben Jonson, down to the
words “with infinite labour and study could but hardly attain to,” was omitted by Pope, for
reasons which appear in his Preface. See pp. 54, 55.

Ben was naturally proud and insolent, etc. Rowe here paraphrases and expands Dryden’s description
in his Discourse concerning Satire of Jonson’s verses to the memory of Shakespeare,—“an insolent,
sparing, and invidious panegyric” (ed. W. P. Ker, ii., p. 18).

In a conversation, etc. The authority for this conversation is Dryden, who had recorded it
as early as 1668 in his Essay of Dramatic Poesy, at the conclusion of the magnificent eulogy
of Shakespeare. He had also spoken of it to Charles Gildon, who, in his Reflections on Mr.
Rymer’s Short View of Tragedy (1694), had given it with greater fulness of detail. Each of
the three accounts contains certain particulars lacking in the other two, but they have unmistakably
a common source. Dryden probably told the story to Rowe, as he had already told it to Gildon.
The chief difficulty is the source, not of Rowe’s information, but of Dryden’s. As Jonson was
present at the discussion, it must have taken place by 1637. It is such a discussion as prompted
Suckling’s Session of the Poets (1637), wherein Hales and Falkland figure. It cannot be dated
“before 1633” (as in Ingleby’s Centurie of Prayse, pp. 198-9). The Lord Falkland mentioned
in Gildon’s account is undoubtedly the second lord, who succeeded in 1633, and died in 1643.
Dryden may have got his information from Davenant.

8. Pope condensed the passage thus: “Mr. Hales, who had sat still for some time, told ’em,
That if Shakespear had not read the Ancients, he had likewise not stollen anything from ’em;
and that if he would produce,” etc.

9. Johnson did indeed take a large liberty. The concluding portion of this paragraph from these
words is omitted by Pope.

The Menaechmi was translated by “W. W.,” probably William Warner. It was licensed in June,
1594, and published in 1595, but, as the preface states, it had been circulated in manuscript
before it was printed. The Comedy of Errors, which was acted by 1594, may have been founded
on the Historie of Error, which was given at Hampton Court in 1576-7, and probably also at
Windsor in 1582-3. See Farmer’s Essay, p. 200,

This passage dealing with Rymer is omitted by Pope. He retains of this paragraph only the first
two lines ( ... “Shakespear’s Works”) and the last three (“so I will only take,” etc.).

Thomas Rymer, the editor of the Fœdera, published his Short View of Tragedy in 1693. The criticism
of Othello and Julius Caesar contained therein he had promised as early as 1678 in his Tragedies
of the Last Age. His “sample of Tragedy,” Edgar or the British Monarch, appeared in 1678.

11. Falstaff’s Billet-Doux ... expressions of love in their way, omitted by Pope.

12. The Merchant of Venice was turned into a comedy, with the title the Jew of Venice, by George
Granville, Pope’s “Granville the polite,” afterwards Lord Lansdowne. It was acted at Lincoln’s
Inn Fields in 1701. The part of the Jew was performed by Dogget. Betterton played Bassanio.
See Genest’s English Stage, ii. 243, etc.

is a little too much (line 13). Pope reads is too much.

Difficile est, etc. Horace, Ars poetica, 128.

All the world, etc. As you like it, ii. 7. 139.

13. She never told her love, etc. Twelfth Night, ii. 4. 113-118: line 116, “And with a green
and yellow melancholy” is omitted.

Pope omits a passage or two in (line 34).

ornament to the Sermons. Cf. Addison, Spectator, No. 61: “The greatest authors, in their most
serious works, made frequent use of punns. The Sermons of Bishop Andrews, and the Tragedies
of Shakespear, are full of them.”

14. Pope omits former (line 5).

Caliban. Cf. Dryden’s Preface to Troilus and Cressida (ed. W. P. Ker., i., p. 219) and the
Spectator, Nos. 279 and 419. Johnson criticised the remark in his notes on the Tempest (ed.
1765, i., p. 21).

Note. Ld. Falkland, Lucius Gary (1610-1643), second Viscount Falkland; Ld. C. J. Vaughan, Sir
John Vaughan (1603-1674), Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas; John Selden (1584-1654),
the jurist.

Among the particular beauties, etc. This passage, to the end of the quotation from Dryden’s
Prologue, is omitted by Pope.

16. Dorastus and Faunia, the alternative title of Robert Greene’s Pandosto, or the Triumph
of Time, 1588.

17. Pope omits tyrannical, cruel, and (line 36).

18. Plutarch. Rowe’s statement that Shakespeare “copied” his Roman characters from Plutarch
is—as it stands—inconsistent with the previous argument as to his want of learning. His use
of North’s translation was not established till the days of Johnson and Farmer.

André Dacier (1651-1722) was best known in England by his Essay on Satire, which was included
in his edition of Horace (1681, etc.), and by his edition of the Poetics of Aristotle (1692).
The former was used by Dryden in his Discourse concerning Satire, and appeared in English in
1692 and 1695; the latter was translated in 1705. In 1692 he brought out a prose translation,
“with remarks,” of the Oedipus and Electra of Sophocles. Rowe’s reference is to Dacier’s preface
to the latter play, pp. 253, 254. Cf. his Poetics, notes to ch. xv., and the Spectator, No. 44.

19. But howsoever, etc. Hamlet, i. 5. 84.

20. Betterton’s contemporaries unite in praise of his performance of Hamlet. Downes has an
interesting note in his Roscius Anglicanus showing how, in the acting of this part, Betterton
benefited by Shakespeare’s coaching: “Sir William Davenant (having seen Mr. Taylor, of the
Black Fryars Company, act it; who being instructed by the author, Mr. Shakespear) taught Mr.
Betterton in every particle of it, gained him esteem and reputation superlative to all other
plays” (1789, p. 29). But cf. the Rise and Progress of the English Theatre, appended to Colley
Cibber’s Apology, 1750, p. 516.

The epilogue for Betterton’s “benefit” in 1709 was written by Rowe. Betterton died in 1710.

Since I had at first resolv’d ... said of him made good. This second criticism of Rymer is
also omitted by Pope.

21. Ten in the hundred, etc. Reed, Steevens, and Malone have proved conclusively, if somewhat
laboriously, that these wretched verses are not by Shakespeare. See also Halliwell-Phillips’s
Outlines, i., p. 326. It may be noted that ten per cent. was the regular rate of interest at
this time.

21. as engrav’d in the plate. A poor full-page engraving of the Stratford monument faces this
statement in Rowe’s edition.

He had three daughters. Rowe is in error. Shakespeare had two daughters, and a son named Hamnet.
Susannah was the elder daughter.

22. Pope omits tho’ as I ... friendship and venture to (lines 10-12).

Caesar did never wrong, etc. Cf. Julius Caesar, iii. 1. 47, 48, when the lines read:

    Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
    Will he be satisfied.

23. Gerard Langbaine in his Account of the English Dramatick Poets (1691) ascribes to Shakespeare
“about forty-six plays, all which except three are bound in one volume in Fol., printed London,
1685” (p. 454). The three plays not printed in the fourth folio are the Birth of Merlin, or
the Child has lost his Father, a tragi-comedy, said by Langbaine to be by Shakespeare and Rowley;
John King of England his troublesome Reign; and the Death of King John at Swinstead Abbey.
Langbaine thinks that the last two “were first writ by our Author, and afterwards revised and
reduced into one Play by him: that in the Folio being far the better.” He mentions also the
Arraignment of Paris, but does not ascribe it to Shakespeare, as he has not seen it.

a late collection of poems,—Poems on Affairs of State, from the year 1620 to the year 1707,
vol. iv.

Natura sublimis, etc. Horace, Epistles, ii. 1. 165.

The concluding paragraph is omitted by Pope.

John Dennis.

24. Shakespear ... Tragick Stage. Contrast Rymer’s Short View, p. 156: “Shakespear’s genius
lay for Comedy and Humour. In Tragedy he appears quite out of his element.” Cf. Dennis’s later
statement, p. 40.

25. the very Original of our English Tragical Harmony. Cf. Dryden, Epistle Dedicatory of the
Rival Ladies, ed. W. P. Ker, i., p. 6, and Bysshe, Art of English Poetry, 1702, p. 36. See
Johnson’s criticism of this passage, Preface, p. 140.

Such verse we make, etc. Dennis makes these two lines illustrate themselves.

26. Jack-Pudding. See the Spectator, No. 47. The term was very common at this time for a “merry
wag.” It had also the more special sense of “one attending on a mountebank,” as in Etherege’s
Comical Revenge, iii. 4.

Coriolanus. Contrast Dennis’s opinion of Coriolanus in his letter to Steele of 26th March,
1719: “Mr. Dryden has more than once declared to me that there was something in this very tragedy
of Coriolanus, as it was writ by Shakespear, that is truly great and truly Roman; and I more
than once answered him that it had always been my own opinion.”

29. Poetical Justice. Dennis defended the doctrine of poetical justice in the first of the
two additional letters published with the letters on Shakespeare. Addison had examined this
“ridiculous doctrine in modern criticism” in the Spectator, No. 40 (April 16, 1711). Cf. Pope’s
account of Dennis’s “deplorable frenzy” in the Narrative of Dr. Robert Norris (Pope’s Works,
ed. Elwin and Courthope, x. 459).

30. Natura fieret. Horace, Ars poetica, 408.

a circular poet, i.e. a cyclic poet. This is the only example of this sense of circular in
the New English Dictionary.

32. Hector speaking of Aristotle,—Troilis and Cressida, ii. 2. 166; Milo, id. ii. 3. 258; Alexander,
Coriolanus v. 4. 23.

Plutarch. Though Dennis is right in his conjecture that Shakespeare used a translation, the
absence of any allusion to North’s Plutarch would show that he did not know of it. He is in
error about Livy. Philemon Holland’s translation had appeared in 1600.

33. Offenduntur enim, etc. Ars poetica, 248.

34. Caesar. Cf. the criticism of Julius Caesar in Sewell’s preface to the seventh volume of
Pope’s Shakespeare, 1725.

36. Haec igitur, etc. Cicero, Pro M. Marcello, ix.

38. Julius Caesar. Dennis alludes to the version of Julius Caesar by John Sheffield, Duke of
Buckinghamshire, published in 1722. In the altered form a chorus is introduced between the
acts, and the “play begins the day before Caesar’s death, and ends within an hour after it.”
Buckinghamshire wrote also the Tragedy of Marcus Brutus.

39. Dryden, Preface to the Translation of Ovid’s Epistles (1680) ad fin.: “That of Œnone to
Paris is in Mr. Cowley’s way of imitation only. I was desired to say that the author, who is
of the fair sex, understood not Latin. But if she does not, I am afraid she has given us occasion
to be ashamed who do” (Ed. W. P. Ker, i., p. 243). The author was Mrs. Behn.

Hudibras, i. 1, 661. But Hudibras has it slightly differently,—“Though out of languages in
which,” etc.

39. a Version of two Epistles of Ovid. The poems in the seventh volume of Rowe’s edition of
Shakespeare include Thomas Heywood’s Amorous Epistle of Paris to Helen and Helen to Paris.
They were attributed to Shakespeare, till Farmer proved their authorship (p. 203). Cf. Gildon,
Essay on the Stage, 1710, p. vi.

40. Scriptor, etc. Ars poetica, 120.

41. The Menechmi. Dennis’s “vehement suspicion” is justified. See above, note on p. 9.

Ben Johnson, “small Latin and less Greek” (Verses to the Memory of Shakespeare).

Milton, L’Allegro, 133: “Or sweetest Shakespeare, Fancy’s child.” The same misquotation occurs
in Sewell’s preface, 1725.

Dryden, Essay of Dramatic Poesy: “Those who accuse him to have wanted learning give him the
greater commendation” (ed. W. P. Ker, i., p. 80).

42. Colchus, etc. Ars poetica, 118.

Siquid tamen, etc. Id. 386. The form Maeci was restored about this time by Bentley.

43. Companies of Players. See Mr. Sidney Lee’s Life of Shakespeare, p. 34.

we are told by Ben Johnson. See p. 22. But Heminge and Condell tell us so themselves in the
preface to the Folio: “His mind and hand went together: and what he thought he uttered with
that easinesse, that wee have scarce received from him a blot in his papers.”

Vos, O. Ars poetica, 291.

Poets lose half the Praise, etc. These lines are not by the Earl of Roscommon, but by Edmund
Waller. They occur in Waller’s prefatory verses to Roscommon’s translation of Horace’s Ars poetica.

Dennis’s criticism of Jonson is apparently inspired by Rymer’s remarks on Catiline (Short View,
pp. 159-163). “In short,” says Rymer, “it is strange that Ben, who understood the turn of Comedy
so well, and had found the success, should thus grope in the dark and jumble things together
without head or tail, without rule or proportion, without any reason or design.”

44. Vir bonus, etc. Horace, Ars poetica, 445.

45. ad Populum Phalerae. Persius, iii. 30.

Milton. See Milton’s prefatory note to Samson Agonistes.

46. Veneration for Shakespear. Cf. Dennis’s letter to Steele, 26th March, 1719: “Ever since
I was capable of reading Shakespear, I have always had, and have always expressed, that veneration
for him which is justly his due; of which I believe no one can doubt who has read the Essay
which I published some years ago upon his Genius and Writings.”

Italian Ballad. Cf. Dennis’s Essay on the Operas after the Italian Manner, 1706.

Alexander Pope.

48. His Characters. The same idea had been expressed by Gildon in his Essay on the Stage, 1710,
p. li.: “He has not only distinguish’d his principal persons, but there is scarce a messenger
comes in but is visibly different from all the rest of the persons in the play. So that you
need not to mention the name of the person that speaks, when you read the play, the manners
of the persons will sufficiently inform you who it is speaks.” Cf. also Addison’s criticism
of Homer, Spectator, No. 273: “There is scarce a speech or action in the Iliad, which the reader
may not ascribe to the person that speaks or acts, without seeing his name at the head of it.”

50. To judge of Shakespear by Aristotle’s rules. This comparison had appeared in Farquhar’s
Discourse upon Comedy: “The rules of English Comedy don’t lie in the compass of Aristotle,
or his followers, but in the Pit, Box, and Galleries. And to examine into the humour of an
English audience, let us see by what means our own English poets have succeeded in this point.
To determine a suit at law we don’t look into the archives of Greece or Rome, but inspect the
reports of our own lawyers, and the acts and statutes of our Parliaments; and by the same rule
we have nothing to do with the models of Menander or Plautus, but must consult Shakespear,
Johnson, Fletcher, and others, who by methods much different from the Ancients have supported
the English Stage, and made themselves famous to posterity.” Cf. also Rowe, p. 15: “it would
be hard to judge him by a law he knew nothing of.”—Is it unnecessary to point out that there
are no “rules” in Aristotle? The term “Aristotle’s rules” was commonly used to denote the “rules
of the classical drama,” which, though based on the Poetics, were formulated by Italian and
French critics of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.

51. The Dates of his plays. Pope here controverts Rowe’s statement, p. 4.

blotted a line. See note, p. 43. Though Pope here controverts the traditional opinion, he found
it to his purpose to accept it in the Epistle to Augustus, ll. 279-281:

    And fluent Shakespear scarce effac’d a line.
    Ev’n copious Dryden wanted, or forgot,
    The last and greatest art, the art to blot.

52. Pope’s references to the early editions of the Merry Wives and other plays do not prove
his assertions. Though an imperfect edition of the Merry Wives appeared in 1602, it does not
follow that this was “entirely new writ” and transformed into the play in the Folio of 1623.
The same criticism applies to what he says of Henry V., of which pirated copies appeared in
1600, 1602, and 1608. And he is apparently under the impression that the Contention of York
and Lancaster and the early play of Hamlet were Shakespeare’s own work.

53. Coriolanus and Julius Caesar. Pope replies tacitly to Dennis’s criticism of these plays.

those Poems which pass for his. The seventh or supplementary volume of Rowe’s and Pope’s editions
contained, in addition to some poems by Marlowe, translations of Ovid by Thomas Heywood. Like
Rowe, Pope has some doubt as to the authorship of the poems, but on the score of the dedications
he attributes to him Venus and Adonis and the Rape of Lucrece. Both editors ignored the Sonnets.
It is doubtful how far Shakespeare was indebted to Ovid in his Venus and Adonis. He knew Golding’s
translation of the Metamorphoses (1565-67); but Venus and Adonis has many points in common
with Lodge’s Scillaes Metamorphosis which appeared in 1589. See, however, J. P. Reardon’s paper
in the “Shakespeare Society’s Papers,” 1847, iii. 143-6, where it is held that Lodge is indebted
to Shakespeare.

Plautus. Cf. Rowe, p. 9. Gildon had claimed for Shakespeare greater acquaintance with the Ancients
than Rowe had admitted, and Pope had both opinions in view when he wrote the present passage.
“I think there are many arguments to prove,” says Gildon, “that he knew at least some of the
Latin poets, particularly Ovid; two of his Epistles being translated by him: His motto to Venus
and Adonis is another proof. But that he had read Plautus himself, is plain from his Comedy
of Errors, which is taken visibly from the Menæchmi of that poet.... The characters he has
in his plays drawn of the Romans is a proof that he was acquainted with their historians....
I contend not here to prove that he was a perfect master of either the Latin or Greek authors;
but all that I aim at, is to shew that as he was capable of reading some of the Romans, so
he had actually read Ovid and Plautus, without spoiling or confining his fancy or genius” (1710,
p. vi).

Dares Phrygius. The reference is to the prologue of Troilus and Cressida. See the note in Theobald’s
edition, and Farmer, p. 187.

Chaucer. See Gildon’s remarks on Troilus and Cressida, 1710, p. 358.

54. Ben Johnson. Pope is here indebted to Betterton. Cf. his remark as recorded by Spence,
Anecdotes, 1820, p. 5. “It was a general opinion that Ben Jonson and Shakespeare lived in enmity
against one another. Betterton has assured me often that there was nothing in it; and that
such a supposition was founded only on the two parties, which in their lifetime listed under
one, and endeavoured to lessen the character of the other mutually. Dryden used to think that
the verses Jonson made on Shakespeare’s death had something of satire at the bottom; for my
part, I can’t discover any thing like it in them.”

Pessimum genus, etc. Tacitus, Agricola, 41.

Si ultra placitum, etc. Virgil, Eclogues, vii. 27, 28.

55. Dryden. Discourse concerning Satire, ad init. (ed. W. P. Ker, ii., p. 18).

Enter three Witches solus. “This blunder appears to be of Mr. Pope’s own invention. It is not
to be found in any one of the four folio copies of Macbeth, and there is no quarto edition
of it extant” (Steevens).

56. Hector’s quoting Aristotle. Troilus and Cressida, ii. 2. 166.

57. those who play the Clowns. “Act iii., Sc. 4” in Pope’s edition, but Act iii., Sc. 2 in
modern editions.

58. Procrustes. Cf. Spectator, No. 58.

Note 2. In the edition of 1728, Pope added to this note “which last words are not in the first
quarto edition.”

59. led into the Buttery of the Steward. “Mr. Pope probably recollected the following lines
in The Taming of the Shrew, spoken by a Lord, who is giving directions to his servant concerning
some players:

    Go, Sirrah, take them to the buttery,
    And give them friendly welcome every one.

But he seems not to have observed that the players here introduced were strollers; and there
is no reason to suppose that our author, Heminge, Burbage, Lowin, etc., who were licensed by
King James, were treated in this manner” (Malone).

London Prodigal. After these seven plays Pope added in the edition of 1728 “and a thing call’d
the Double Falshood” (see Introduction, p. xlv). It will be noted that he speaks incorrectly
of “eight” plays. In the same edition he also inserted The Comedy of Errors between The Winter’s
Tale and Titus Andronicus (top of p. 60).

60. tho’ they were then printed in his name. His name was given on the title-page of Pericles,
Sir John Oldcastle, the Yorkshire Tragedy, and the London Prodigal.

Lewis Theobald.

64. above the Direction of their Tailors. Cf. Pope, p. 51. The succeeding remarks on the individuality
of Shakespeare’s characters also appear to have been suggested by Pope.

65. wanted a Comment. Contrast Rowe, p. 1.

66. Judith was Shakespeare’s younger daughter (cf. Rowe, p. 21). It is now known that Shakespeare
was married at the end of 1582. See Mr. Sidney Lee’s Life of Shakespeare, pp. 18-24.

68. Spenser’s Thalia. Cf. Rowe, pp. 6, 7. The original editions read “Tears of his Muses.”

69. Rymers Fœdera, vol. xvi., p. 505. Fletcher, i.e. Lawrence Fletcher.

the Bermuda Islands. Cf. Theobald’s note on “the still-vext Bermoothes,” vol. i., p. 13 (1733).
Though Shakespeare is probably indebted to the account of Sir George Somers’s shipwreck on
the Bermudas, Theobald is wrong, as Farmer pointed out, in saying that the Bermudas were not
discovered till 1609. A description of the islands by Henry May, who was shipwrecked on them
in 1593, is given in Hakluyt, 1600, iii., pp. 573-4.

70. Mr. Pope, or his Graver. So the quotation appears in the full-page illustration facing
p. xxxi of Rowe’s Account in Pope’s edition; but the illustration was not included in all the
copies, perhaps because of the error. The quotation appears correctly in the engraving in Rowe’s
edition.

72. New-place. Queen Henrietta Maria’s visit was from 11th to 13th July, 1643. Theobald’s “three
weeks” should read “three days.” See Halliwell-Phillips, Outlines, 1886, ii., p. 108.

We have been told in print, in An Answer to Mr. Popes Preface to Shakespear.... By a Stroling
Player [John Roberts], 1729, p. 45.

73. Complaisance to a bad Taste. Cf. Rowe, p. 6, Dennis p. 46, and Theobald’s dedication to
Shakespeare Restored; yet Theobald himself had complied to the bad taste in several pantomimes.

Nullum sine venia. Seneca, Epistles, 114. 12.

74. Speret idem. Horace, Ars Poetica, 241.

Indeed to point out, etc. In the first edition of the Preface, Theobald had given “explanations
of those beauties that are less obvious to common readers.” He has unadvisably retained the
remark that such explanations “should deservedly have a share in a general critic upon the
author.” The “explanations” were omitted probably because they were inspired by Warburton.

75. And therefore the Passages ... from the Classics. Cf. the following passage with Theobald’s
letter to Warburton of 17th March, 1729-30 (see Nichols, Illustrations, ii., pp. 564, etc.).
The letter throws strong light on Theobald’s indecision on the question of Shakespeare’s learning.

“The very learned critic of our nation” is Warburton himself. See his letter to Concanen of
2nd January, 1726 (Malone’s Shakespeare, 1821, xii., p. 158). Cf. Theobald’s Preface to Richard
II., 1720, and Whalley’s Enquiry, 1748, p. 51.

76. Effusion of Latin Words. Theobald has omitted a striking passage in the original preface.
It was shown that Shakespeare’s writings, in contrast with Milton’s, contain few or no Latin
phrases, though they have many Latin words made English; and this fact was advanced as the
truest criterion of his knowledge of Latin.

The passage is referred to by Hurd in his Letter to Mr. Mason on the Marks of Imitation (1757,
p. 74). Hurd thinks that the observation is too good to have come from Theobald. His opinion
is confirmed by the entire omission of the passage in the second edition. Warburton himself
claimed it as his own. Though the passage was condensed by Theobald, Warburton’s claim is still
represented by the passage from For I shall find (p. 76, l. 7) to Royal Taste (l. 36).

77. Shakespeare ... astonishing force and splendor. Cf. Pope, p. 50.

Had Homer, etc. Cf. Pope, p. 56.

78. Indulging his private sense. See p. 61.

Lipsius,—Satyra Menippæa (Opera, 1611, p. 640).

79. Sive homo, etc. Quintus Serenus, De Medicina, xlvi., “Hominis ac simiae morsui.”

80. Nature of any Distemper ... corrupt Classic. Cf. Shakespeare Restored, pp. iv, v.

81. Bentley’s edition of Paradise Lost had appeared in 1732.

the true Duty of an Editor. A shy hit at Pope’s “dull duty of an editor,” Preface, p. 61.

82. as I have formerly observ’d, in the Introduction to Shakespeare Restored, pp. ii and iv.
The paragraph is quoted almost verbatim.

83. labour’d under flat Nonsense. Here again Theobald incorporates a passage from the Introduction
to Shakespeare Restored, p. vi.

Corrections and conjectures. Yet another passage appropriated from his earlier work. The French
quotation, however, is new.

Edition of our author’s Poems. Theobald did not carry out his intention of editing the Poems.
References to the proposed edition will be found in Warburton’s letters to him of 17th May
and 14th October, 1734 (see Nichols, Illustrations, ii., pp. 634, 654).

The only attempt as yet towards a Shakespearian Glossary is to be found in the supplementary
volumes of Rowe’s and Pope’s editions. It is far from “copious and complete.”

84. The English are observ’d to produce more Humourists. See Congreve’s letter to Dennis Concerning
Humour in Comedy, 1695.

Wit lying mostly in the Assemblage of Ideas, etc. So Locke, Essay concerning the Human Understanding,
Book II., Ch. xi., § 2. The passage had been popularised by Addison, Spectator, No. 62.

85. Donne. Cf. Dryden’s criticism of Donne.

86. a celebrated Writer. Addison, Spectator, No. 297.

Bossu. René le Bossu (1631-1680), author of the Traité du poème épique (1675). An English translation
by “W. J.” was printed in 1695, and again in 1719.

Dacier. See note, p. 18.

Gildon showed himself to be of the same school as Rymer in his Essay on the Art, Rise, and
Progress of the Stage (1710) and his Art of Poetry (1718); yet his earliest piece of criticism
was a vigorous attack on Rymer. It was printed in a volume of Miscellaneous Letters and Essays
(1694).

87. Anachronisms. The passage referred to occurs on pp. 134, 135 of Shakespeare Restored.

this Restorer. See the Dunciad (1729), i. 106, note.

it not being at all credible, etc. See p. 56.

Sir Francis Drake. Pope had suggested in a note that the imperfect line in 1 Henry VI., i.
1. 56, might have been completed with the words “Francis Drake.” He had not, however, incorporated
the words in the text. “I can’t guess,” he says, “the occasion of the Hemystic, and imperfect
sense, in this place; ’tis not impossible it might have been fill’d up with—Francis Drake—tho’
that were a terrible Anachronism (as bad as Hector’s quoting Aristotle in Troil. and Cress.);
yet perhaps, at the time that brave Englishman was in his glory, to an English-hearted audience,
and pronounced by some favourite Actor, the thing might be popular, though not judicious; and
therefore by some Critick, in favour of the author, afterwards struck out. But this is a meer
slight conjecture.” Theobald has a lengthy note on this in his edition. He does not allude
to the suggestion which he had submitted to Warburton. See Introduction, p. xlvi.

88. Odyssey. This passage, to the end of the paragraph, appears in Theobald’s letter to Warburton
of March 17, 1729-30 (Nichols, ii., p. 566). In the same letter he had expressed his doubts
as to whether he should include this passage in his proposed pamphlet against Pope, as the
notes to the Odyssey were written by Broome. He had cast aside these scruples now. The preface
does not bear out his profession to Warburton that he was indifferent to Pope’s treatment.

89. David Mallet had just brought out his poem Of Verbal Criticism (1733) anonymously. It is
simply a paraphrase and expansion of Pope’s statements. “As the design of the following poem
is to rally the abuse of Verbal Criticism, the author could not, without manifest partiality,
overlook the Editor of Milton and the Restorer of Shakespear” (introductory note).

Boswell attributed this “contemptuous mention of Mallet” to Warburton (Boswell’s Malone, 1821,
i., p. 42, n). But it was not claimed by Warburton, and there is nothing, except perhaps the
vigour of the passage, to support Boswell’s contention. In the same note Boswell points out
that the comparison of Shakespeare and Jonson in Theobald’s Preface reappears in Warburton’s
note on Love’s Labour’s Lost, Act i., Sc. 1.

Hang him, Baboon, etc. 2 Henry IV., ii. 4. 261.

Longinus, On the Sublime, vi.

90. Noble Writer,—the Earl of Shaftesbury, in his Characteristicks: “The British Muses, in
this Dinn of Arms, may well lie abject and obscure; especially being as yet in their mere Infant-State.
They have hitherto scarce arriv’d to any thing of Shapeliness or Person. They lisp as in their
Cradles: and their stammering Tongues, which nothing but their Youth and Rawness can excuse,
have hitherto spoken in wretched Pun and Quibble” (1711, i., p. 217).

Complaints of its Barbarity, as in Dryden’s Discourse concerning Satire, ad fin (ed. W. P.
Ker, ii., pp. 110, 113).

Sir Thomas Hanmer.

92. The “other Gentlemen” who communicated their observations to Hanmer include Warburton (see
Introduction), the “Rev. Mr. Smith of Harlestone in Norfolk” (see Zachary Grey, Notes on Shakespeare,
Preface), and probably Thomas Cooke, the editor of Plautus (see Correspondence of Hanmer, ed.
Bunbury, p. 229).

93. much obliged to them. Amid the quarrels of Pope, Theobald, and Warburton, it is pleasant
to find an editor admitting some merit in his predecessors.

what Shakespeare ought to have written. Cf. the following passage in the Remarks on the Tragedy
of Hamlet attributed to Hanmer: “The former [Theobald] endeavours to give us an author as he
is: the latter [Pope], by the correctness and excellency of his own genius, is often tempted
to give us an author as he thinks he ought to be.” Theobald, it is said, is “generally thought
to have understood our author best” (p. 4).

Henry V., iii. 4.

94. Merchant of Venice, iii. 5. 48.

Hanmer’s Glossary, given at the end of vol. vi., shows a distinct advance in every way on the
earlier glossary in the supplementary volume to Rowe’s and to Pope’s edition. It is much fuller,
though it runs only to a dozen pages, and more scholarly.

95. fairest impressions, etc. The edition is indeed a beautiful piece of printing. Each play
is preceded by a full-page plate engraved by Gravelot from designs by Francis Hayman, or, as
in vol. iv., by himself. (See Correspondence of Hanmer, pp. 83-4.)

95. his Statue. The statue in the Poet’s Corner in Westminster Abbey, erected by public subscription
in 1741. See the Gentleman’s Magazine for February, 1741, p. 105: “A fine Monument is erected
in Westminster Abbey to the Memory of Shakespear, by the Direction of the Earl of Burlington,
Dr. Mead, Mr. Pope, and Mr. Martin. Mr. Fleetwood, Master of Drury-Lane Theatre, and Mr. Rich,
of that of Covent-Garden, gave each a Benefit, arising from one of his own Plays, towards it,
and the Dean and Chapter made a present of the Ground. The Design, by Mr. Kent, was executed
by Mr. Scheemaker.”

William Warburton.

96. the excellent Discourse which follows, i.e. Pope’s Preface, which was reprinted by Warburton
along with Rowe’s Account of Shakespeare.

101. Essays, Remarks, Observations, etc. Warburton apparently refers to the following works:

Some Remarks on the Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, written by Mr. William Shakespeare.
London, 1736. Perhaps by Sir Thomas Hanmer. To which is added an Analysis of the Characters
of an Humourist, Sir John Falstaff, Sir Roger de Coverley, and Don Quixote. London, 1744. By
Corbyn Morris, who signs the Dedication. London, 1745. By Samuel Johnson, though anonymous.

Critical Observations on Shakespeare. By John Upton, Prebendary of Rochester. London, 1746.
Second edition, with a preface replying to Warburton, 1748.

An Essay upon English Tragedy. With Remarks upon the Abbé de Blanc’s Observations on the English
Stage. By William Guthrie, Esq. [1747.]

The last of these may not have appeared, however, till after Warburton’s edition.

Johnson is said by Boswell to have ever entertained a grateful remembrance of this allusion
to him “at a time when praise was of value.” But though the criticism is merited, is it too
sinister a suggestion that it was prompted partly by the reference in Johnson’s pamphlet to
“the learned Mr. Warburton”? When Johnson’s edition appeared in 1765, Warburton expressed a
very different opinion (see Nichols, Anecdotes, v., p. 595).

101-105. whole Compass of Criticism. Cf. Theobald’s account of the “Science of Criticism,”
pp. 81, etc., which Warburton appears to have suggested.

101. Canons of literal Criticism. This phrase suggested the title of the ablest and most damaging
attack on Warburton’s edition,—The Canons of Criticism, and Glossary, being a Supplement to
Mr. Warburton’s Edition of Shakespear. The author was Thomas Edwards (1699-1757), a “gentleman
of Lincoln’s Inn,” who accordingly figures in the notes to the Dunciad, iv. 568. When the book
first appeared in 1748 it was called A Supplement, etc.... Being the Canons of Criticism. It
reached a seventh edition in 1765.

103. Rymer, Short View of Tragedy (1693), pp. 95, 6.

105. as Mr. Pope hath observed. Preface, p. 47.

Dacier, Bossu. See notes, pp. 18 and 86.

René Rapin (1621-1687). His fame as a critic rests on his Réflexions sur la Poétique d’ Aristote
et sur les Ouvrages des Poètes anciens et modernes (1674), which was Englished by Rymer immediately
on its publication. His treatise De Carmine Pastorali, of which a translation is included in
Creech’s Idylliums of Theocritus (1684), was used by Pope for the preface to his Pastorals.
An edition of The Whole Critical Works of Monsieur Rapin ... newly translated into English
by several Hands, 2 vols., appeared in 1706; it is not, however, complete.

John Oldmixon (1673-1742), who, like Dennis and Gildon, has a place in the Dunciad, was the
author of An Essay on Criticism, as it regards Design, Thought, and Expression in Prose and
Verse (1728) and The Arts of Logick and Rhetorick, illustrated by examples taken out of the
best authors (1728). The latter is based on the Manière de bien penser of Bouhours.

A certain celebrated Paper,—The Spectator.

semper acerbum, etc. Virgil, Aeneid, v. 49.

106. Note, “See his Letters to me.” These letters are not extant.

108. Saint Chrysostom ... Aristophanes. This had been a commonplace in the discussions at the
end of the seventeenth century, in England and France, on the morality of the drama.

Ludolf Kuster (1670-1716) appears also in the Dunciad, iv., l. 237. His edition of Suidas was
published, through Bentley’s influence, by the University of Cambridge in 1705. He also edited
Aristophanes (1710), and wrote De vero usu Verborum Mediorum apud Graecos. Cf. Farmer’s Essay,
p. 176.

who thrust himself into the employment. Hanmer’s letters to the University of Oxford do not
bear out Warburton’s statement.

109. Gilles Ménage (1613-1692). Les Poésies de M. de Malherbe avec les Observations de M. Ménage
appeared in 1666.

Selden’s “Illustrations” or notes appeared with the first part of Polyolbion in 1612. This
allusion was suggested by a passage in a letter from Pope of 27th November, 1742: “I have a
particular reason to make you interest yourself in me and my writings. It will cause both them
and me to make the better figure to posterity. A very mediocre poet, one Drayton, is yet taken
some notice of, because Selden writ a few notes on one of his poems” (ed. Elwin and Courthope,
ix., p. 225).

110. Verborum proprietas, etc. Quintilian, Institut. Orat., Prooem. 16.

Warburton alludes to the edition of Beaumont and Fletcher “by the late Mr. Theobald, Mr. Seward
of Eyam in Derbyshire, and Mr. Sympson of Gainsborough,” which appeared in ten volumes in 1750.
The long and interesting preface is by Seward. Warburton’s reference would not have been so
favourable could he have known Seward’s opinion of his Shakespeare. See the letter printed
in the Correspondence of Hanmer, ed. Bunbury, pp. 352, etc.

The edition of Paradise Lost is that by Thomas Newton (1704-1782), afterwards Bishop of Bristol.
It appeared in 1749, and a second volume containing the other poems was added in 1752. In the
preface Newton gratefully acknowledges this recommendation, and alludes with pride to the assistance
he had received from Warburton, who had proved himself to be “the best editor of Shakespeare.”

Some dull northern Chronicles, etc. Cf. the Dunciad, iii. 185-194.

111. a certain satyric Poet. The reference is to Zachary Grey’s edition of Hudibras (1744).
Yet Warburton had contributed to it. In the preface “the Rev. and learned Mr. William Warburton”
is thanked for his “curious and critical observations.”

Grey’s “coadjutor” was “the reverend Mr. Smith of Harleston in Norfolk,” as Grey explains in
the preface to the Notes on Shakespeare. In his preface to Hudibras, Grey had given Smith no
prominence in his long list of helpers. Smith had also assisted Hanmer.

In 1754 Grey brought out his Critical, Historical, and Explanatory Notes on Shakespeare, and
in 1755 retaliated on Warburton in his Remarks upon a late edition of Shakespear ... to which
is prefixed a defence of the late Sir Thomas Hanmer. Grey appears to be the author also of
A word or two of advice to William Warburton, a dealer in many words, 1746.

our great Philosopher, Sir Isaac Newton. His remark is recorded by William Whiston in the Historical
Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Samuel Clarke (1730), p. 143: “To observe such laymen as Grotius,
and Newton, and Lock, laying out their noblest Talents in sacred Studies; while such Clergymen
as Dr. Bentley and Bishop Hare, to name no others at present, have been, in the Words of Sir
Isaac Newton, fighting with one another about a Playback [Terence]: This is a Reproach upon
them, their holy Religion, and holy Function plainly intolerable.” Warburton’s defence of himself
in the previous pages must have been inspired partly by the “fanatical turn” of this “wild
writer.” Whiston would hardly excuse Clarke for editing Homer till he “perceived that the pains
he had taken about Homer were when he was much younger, and the notes rather transcrib’d than
made new”; and Warburton is careful to state that his Shakespearian studies were amongst his
“younger amusements.” Francis Hare (1671-1740), successively Dean of Worcester, Dean of St.
Paul’s, Bishop of St. Asaph, and Bishop of Chichester. For his quarrel with Bentley, see Monk’s
Life of Bentley, ii., pp. 217, etc. Hare is referred to favourably in the Dunciad (iii. 204),
and was a friend of Warburton.

Words are the money, etc. Hobbes, Leviathan, Part I., ch. iv.: “For words are wise men’s counters,
they do but reckon by them; but they are the money of fools.”

Samuel Johnson.

113. the poems of Homer. Cf. Johnson’s remark recorded in the Diary of the Right Hon. William
Windham, August, 1784 (ed. 1866, p. 17): “The source of everything in or out of nature that
can serve the purpose of poetry to be found in Homer.”

114. his century. Cf. Horace, Epistles, ii. 1. 39, and Pope, Epistle to Augustus, 55, 56.

Nothing can please many, etc. This had been the theme of the 59th number of the Idler.

115. Hierocles. See the Asteia attributed to Hierocles, No. 9 (Hieroclis Commentarius in Aurea
Carmina, ed. Needham, 1709, p. 462).

116. Pope. Preface, p. 48.

117. Dennis. See pp. 26, etc. In replying to Voltaire, Johnson has in view, throughout the
whole preface, the essay Du Théâtre anglais, par Jerome Carré, 1761 (Oeuvres, 1785, vol. 61).
He apparently ignores the earlier Discours sur la tragédie à Milord Bolingbroke, 1730, and
Lettres Philosophiques (dix-huitième lettre, “Sur la tragédie”), 1734. 48, p. 205). On the
question of Voltaire’s attitude to Shakespeare, see Monsieur Jusserand’s Shakespeare en France,
1898, and Mr. Lounsbury’s Shakespeare and Voltaire, 1902.

118. comic and tragic scenes. The ensuing passage gives stronger expression to what Johnson
had said in the Rambler, No. 156.

I do not recollect, etc. Johnson forgets the Cyclops of Euripides. Steevens compares the passage
in the Essay of Dramatic Poesy, where Dryden says that “Aeschylus, Euripides, Sophocles, and
Seneca never meddled with comedy.”

119. instruct by pleasing. Cf. Horace, Ars poetica, 343-4.

alternations (line 15). The original reads alterations.

120. tragedies to-day and comedies to-morrow. As the Aglaura of Suckling and the Vestal Virgin
of Sir Robert Howard, which have a double fifth act. 1789, p. 31: cf. Genest, English Stage,
i., p. 42).

120-1. Rhymer and Voltaire. See Du Théâtre anglais, passim, and Short View, pp. 96, etc. The
passage is aimed more directly at Voltaire than at Rymer. Like Rowe, Johnson misspells Rymer’s
name.

122. Shakespeare has likewise faults. Cf. Johnson’s letter of 16th October, 1765, to Charles
Burney, quoted by Boswell: “We must confess the faults of our favourite to gain credit to our
praise of his excellences. Pope. Preface, p. 56.

In tragedy, etc. Cf. Pope (Spence’s Anecdotes, 1820, p. 173): “Shakespeare generally used to
stiffen his style with high words and metaphors for the speeches of his kings and great men:
he mistook it for a mark of greatness.”

125. What he does best, he soon ceases to do. This sentence first appears in the edition of 1778.

126. the unities. Johnson’s discussion of the three unities is perhaps the most brilliant passage
in the whole preface. Cf. the Rambler, No. 156; Farquhar, Discourse upon Comedy (1702); Some
Remarks on the Tragedy of Hamlet (1736); Upton, Critical Observations (1746), 1. ix.; Fielding,
Tom Jones, prefatory chapter of Book V.; Alexander Gerard, Essay on Taste (1758); Daniel Webb,
Remarks on the Beauties of Poetry (1762); and Kames, Elements of Criticism (1762). “Attic”
Hurd had defended Gothic “unity of design” in his Letters on Chivalry (1762).

127. Corneille published his Discours dramatiques, the second of which dealt with the three
unities, in 1660; but he had observed the unities since the publication of the Sentiments de
l’Académie sur le Cid (1638).

130. Venice ... Cyprus. See Voltaire, Du Théâtre anglais, vol. 61, p. 377 (ed. 1785), and cf.
Rymer’s Short View.

131. Non usque, etc. Lucan, Pharsalia, iii. 138-140.

132. Every man’s performances, etc. Cf. Johnson’s Dedication to Mrs. Lennox’s Shakespear Illustrated,
1753, pp. viii, ix. See note, p. 175.

133. As you like it. Theobald, Upton, and Zachary Grey were satisfied that As you like it was
founded on “the Coke’s Tale of Gamelyn in Chaucer.” But Johnson knows that the immediate source
of the play is Thomas Lodge’s Rosalynde, Euphues Golden Legacie. The presence of the Tale of
Gamelyn in several MSS. of the Canterbury Tales accounted for its erroneous ascription to Chaucer.
It was still in MS. in Shakespeare’s days. Cf. Farmer’s Essay, p. 178.

old Mr. Cibber,—Colley Cibber (1671-1757), actor and poet-laureate.

English ballads. Johnson refers to the ballad of King Leire and his Three Daughters. But the
ballad is of later date than the play. Cf. p. 178.

134. Voltaire, Du Théâtre anglais, vol. 61, p. 366 (ed. 1785). Cf. Lettres philosophiques,
Sur la Tragédie, ad fin., and Le Siècle de Louis XIV., ch. xxxiv.

