I went downstairs at eight o'clock, and Mrs. Senter was already in the great hall, standing
in front of the splendid stone fireplace, watching her rings sparkle in the light of the wood
fire, and resting one pretty foot on a paw of the left-hand carved stone wolf that supports
a ledge of the mantelpiece--just as if it belonged to her and she had tamed it. She glanced
up when I appeared, and smiled vaguely, but didn't speak. She seemed thoughtful.

After awhile, Emily came, swishing silkily. Mrs. Senter began to talk to her, praising the
place; and then, just before the quarter past--dinner-time--Sir Lionel joined us, looking nice,
but tired. Mrs. Senter gave him a sweet smile, and he smiled back, absent-mindedly. He gave
her his arm in to dinner, and she did clever things with her eyelashes, which made her seem
to blush. She wore a white dress I'd not seen yet, a simple string of pearls round her neck,
and quite a maidenly or bridal look. I couldn't wonder at Sir Lionel if he admired her! At
the dinner-table (which was beautiful with flowers, lots of silver, and old crystal--a picture
against the dark oak panelling) Mrs. Senter was on his right hand, I on his left, his sister
playing hostess. This was as usual; but as it was the first time in his own house, somehow
it made Mrs. Senter seem of more importance. He and she talked together a good deal, and she
said some witty things, but spent herself mostly in drawing him out. He didn't speak to me,
except to deign a question about my room, or ask whether I would have a certain thing to eat.
I felt a dreadful lump, and worth about "thirty cents," as Dad used to say.

After dinner, when Emily took us to a charming drawing-room, all white, with an old spinet
in one corner, Sir Lionel stopped away for a few minutes; but when he came Mrs. Senter grabbed
him immediately. She wouldn't let him hear, when Emily inquired if I could sing, accompanying
myself on the spinet, but began asking him eagerly about the library, which it seems is rather
famous.

"You shall see it to-morrow, if you like," said he.

"Oh, mayn't I have a peep to-night?" she begged, prettily. "Do take me. Just one peep."

So he took her, of course, and the peep prolonged itself indefinitely. I had a sinking presentiment
that my dreadful flare-up with Dick had been in vain, and that after all she would inveigle
him into proposing to her this very night. Since I refused to tell him that her damask cheek
was being preyed upon by love of him, she would probably intimate as much herself, and bury
her head between her hands, looking incredibly sad and lovable. Sir Lionel wouldn't be the
man to fight such tactics as those! I knew he didn't, wouldn't, and couldn't love her one little
bit, but he would be sorry for her, and sacrifice himself rather than she should suffer for
his sake, when he might make her happy.

Emily chatted to me pleasantly about the church, and the vicar at Graylees, and family tombs,
and such cheerful things, to which I said "Yes" and "No" whenever she stopped; but a cold perspiration
was coming out on my forehead. I was just as sure as that I was alive, that Mrs. Senter didn't
mean to leave the library until Sir Lionel had made her a present of himself, his books, and
his castle. Probably my sub-conscious self or astral body was there, hearing every word they
said. Anyhow, I knew. And I could do nothing. A thumb-screw or a rack would have been a pleasant
relief.

Suddenly we heard the sound of a carriage driving quickly up to the house.

"Who can that be?" wondered Mrs. Norton. "It's after half-past nine."

"Very likely it's Mr. Burden," said I; the first moderately intelligent remark I'd made since
we were left together.

