Now all “the promises of God are yea and amen in Jesus Christ,” that is, established and confirmed
in him. Christ is the surety of them, and so the certainty and stability of them depend upon
him, at least to our sense, for God in all his dealing condescends to our weakness that we
may have strong consolation. A promise might suffice to ground our faith, but he addeth an
oath to his promise, and he takes Christ surety for the performance, and therefore Christ may
be called the truth indeed,—the substantial word of God,—for he is the very substance of the
written and preached word. And then he is the certainty and assurance of it, the Scriptures
testify of him, and lead us to this “rock higher than we,” to build upon, and against this
“the gates of hell cannot prevail.” If the word lead not a soul into Christ himself, that soul
hath no foundation. Though thou hear the word,—though thou know the word,—yea, suppose thou
couldest teach others, and instruct the ignorant,—yet all that will be no foundation, as good
as none, except thou do it. And what is it to do the word but believe in him whom the word
testifies of? This is the work of God, to resign thy soul to his mercies and merits, and have
no confidence in the flesh, to scrape out all the rubbish of works and performances and parts
out of the foundation, and singly to roll thy soul’s weight upon God’s promises and Christ’s
purchase, to look with Paul on all things besides, in thee, and about thee, as dung and dross
that thou can lean no weight upon, and to remove that dunghill from the foundation of thy hope,
that Jesus Christ may be the only foundation of thy soul, as God hath laid him in the church
for “a sure foundation that whoso believeth in him may not be ashamed.” Whatever besides a
soul be established on, though it appear very solid, and the soul be settled and fixed upon
it, yet a day will come that will unsettle that soul and raze that foundation. Either it shall
be now done in thy conscience, or it must be done at length, when that great tempest of God’s
indignation shall blow from heaven “against all unrighteousness of men,” in the day of accounts.
Then shall thy house fall, and the fall of it shall be great! But a soul established upon the
sure promises and upon Christ, in whom they “are yea and amen” shall abide that storm, and
in that day have confidence before God,—have wherewith to answer in Jesus Christ, all the challenges
of divine justice, and the accusations of conscience. “He that trusts in him shall be as mount
Sion, which cannot be moved.” You see all things else change, and therefore men’s hopes and
joys perish. Even here the temptations and revolutions of the times undermine their confidence
and joy, and the blasts of the northern wind of affliction blow away their hopes.

Now as Christ is “the foundation,” so he is “the corner stone” of the building. It is Christ
who hath removed that “partition wall between Jews and Gentiles, even the ceremonies of the
one, and the atheism of the other.” “He is our peace, who hath made both one.” The two sides
of the house of God are united by this corner-stone, Jesus Christ. Thus we, who were the temples
of Satan, are made the temples of God. Thus poor stranger Gentiles, who had no interest in
the covenant of promises, come to share with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and to be founded upon
the doctrine of the prophets who taught the Jewish church. Christ is the bond of Christians;
this is “the head” into which all the members should grow up into a body. Distance of place,
difference of nations, distinction of languages, all these cannot separate the members of Jesus
Christ, they are more one—though consisting of divers nations, tongues, and customs and dispositions—than
the people of one nation, or children of one family, for one Lord, one spirit, unites all.
Alas, that all are not united in affection and judgment! Why do the sides of this house contend,
and wrestle one against another, when there is such a cornerstone joining them together? Are
there not many Christians who cannot endure to look upon one another, who are yet both placed
in one building of the temple of God? Alas, this is sad and shameful! But that which I would
especially have observed in this, is, that Jesus Christ is such a foundation that reacheth
throughout the whole building, and immediately toucheth every stone of the building. It is
such a foundation as riseth from the bottom to the top, and therefore Jesus Christ is both
“the author and finisher of our faith,” “the beginning and the end.” The first stone and the
last stone of our building must rise upon him, and by him, the least degree of grace and the
greatest perfection of it, both are in him, and therefore Christians should be most dependent
creatures,—dependent in their first being, and in after well-being,—in their being, and growing,
wholly dependent upon Christ; that out “of his fulness they may receive grace,” and then more
“grace for grace,” that all may appear to be grace indeed.

Now, I beseech you, my beloved in the Lord, to know whereupon ye are builded, or ought to be
builded. There are two great errors in the time, take heed of them; one is the doctrine of
some, and another is the practice of the most part. Some do prefer their own fancies and night-dreams,
and the imaginations of their own heart, to the word of God, and upon pretence of revelation
of new light,(135) do cast a mist upon that word of God which is a light that hath shined from
the beginning. “Be not deceived,” but “try the spirits whether they be of God,” or not. There
are many pretend to much of the Spirit, and therefore cry out against the word, as letter,
as flesh. But, my brethren, believe not every doctrine that calls itself a spirit. That spirit
is not of God that hears not God’s voice as Christ reasoneth against the Jews. Seek ye more
of the Spirit of Christ which he promiseth, who is a Spirit that teacheth all things, and bringeth
to remembrance these blessed sayings, and leads us in all truth. It shall be both safest and
sweetest to you to meditate on that word of the prophets and apostles, and the entrance into
it shall give you light,—an old light which was from the beginning, and therefore a true light—for
all truth is eternal—and yet a new light to your sense and feeling. It is both an old command,
and a new command; an old word, and a new word; if thou search it by the Spirit’s inspiration,
that old word shall be made new, that letter made spirit and life. Such are the words that
Christ speaks. But yet there are many who do not reject the Scriptures in judgment, who, notwithstanding,
do not build on them in practice. Alas, it may be said of the most part of professed Christians
among us, that they are not built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, but upon
the sayings of fallible and weak men! What ground have many of you for your faith, but because
the minister saith so, you believe so? The most part live in an implicit faith, and practise
that in themselves which they condemn in the papists. You do not labour to “search the scriptures,”
that upon that foundation you may build your faith in the questioned truths of this age, that
so you may be able to answer those that ask a reason of the faith that is in you. Alas! simple
souls, you believe every thing, and yet really believe nothing, because you believe not the
word, as the word of the living God, but take it from men upon their authority! Therefore when
a temptation cometh, from any gainsayings of the truth,—you cannot stand against it, because
your faith hath no foundation but the sayings of men, or acts of assemblies. And therefore,
as men whom you trust with holding out light unto you, hold out darkness instead of light,
you embrace that darkness also. But, I beseech you, be builded upon the foundation of the apostles
and prophets, not upon them, but upon that whereon they were builded, the infallible truths
of God. You have the Scriptures, search them; since you have reasonable souls, search them.
Other men’s faith will not save; you cannot see to walk to heaven by other men’s light, more
than you can see by their eyes. You have eyes of your own, souls of your own, subordinate to
none but the God of spirits, and the Lord of consciences, Jesus Christ, and therefore examine
all that is spoken to you from the word, according to the word, and receive no more upon trust
from men but as you find it upon trial to be the truth of God. Here you have a compend of the
doctrine of the Scriptures. All divine truths may be reduced to these two heads,—faith and
love; what we ought to believe, and what we ought to do. This is all the Scriptures teach,
and this is all we have to learn. What have we to know, but what God hath revealed of himself
to us? And what have we to do, but what he commands us? In a word, what have we to learn in
this world, but to believe in Christ, and love him, and so live to him? This is the duty of
man, and this is the dignity of man, and the way to eternal life. Therefore the Scriptures,
that are given to be “a lamp to our feet, and a guide to our paths,” contain a perfect and
exact rule,—credendorum et faciendorum,—of faith and manners,—of doctrine and practice. We
have in the scriptures many truths revealed to us of God, and of the works of his hands,—many
precious truths, but that which most of all concerns us, is to know God and ourselves. This
is the special excellency of the reasonable creature, that it is made capable to know its Creator,
and to reflect upon its own being. Now, we have to know ourselves, what we are now, and what
man once was, and accordingly to know of God, what he once revealed of himself, and what he
doth now reveal. I say, the Scriptures hold out to our consideration a twofold estate of mankind,
and according to these, a twofold revelation of the mystery of God. We look on man now, and
we find him another thing than he was once, but we do not find God one thing at one time, and
another thing at another time, for there is no “shadow of change” in him, and “he is the same
yesterday, and to-day, and for ever.” Therefore we ask not, what he was, and what he is now;
but how he manifests himself differently, according to the different estates of man. As we
find in the Scriptures, man once righteous and blessed, Eccles. vii. 29, and God making him
such according to his own image, “in righteousness and true holiness,” Col. iii. 10, Eph. iv.
24; we find him in communion and friendship with God, set next to the divine majesty, and above
the works of his hand, and all things “under his feet.” How holy was he “and how happy.” And
happy he could not choose but be, since he was holy, being conformed and like unto God in his
will and affection,—choosing that same delight, that same pleasure with God, in his understanding,—knowing
God and his will, and likewise, his own happiness. In such a conformity he could not but have
much communion with  him, that had such conformity to him—union being the foundation of communion—and
great peace and solid tranquillity in him.

Now, in this state of mankind God expresses his goodness and wisdom and power, his holiness
and righteousness. These are the attributes that shine most brightly. In the very morning of
the creation, God revealed himself to man as a holy and just God, whose eyes could behold no
iniquity; and therefore he made him upright, and made a covenant of life and peace with him,
to give him immortal and eternal life,—to continue him in his happy estate, if so be he continued
in well doing, Rom. x. 5, “do this and live.” In which covenant, indeed, there were some outbreaking
of the glorious grace and free condescendency of God, for it was no less free grace and undeserved
favour to promise life to his obedience, than now to promise life to our faith. So that if
the Lord had continued that covenant with us, we ought to have called it grace, and would have
been saved by grace as well as now, though it be true, that there is some more occasion given
to man’s nature to boast and glory in that way, yet not at all “before God,” Rom. iv. 2.

But we have scarcely found man in such an estate, till we have found him sinful and miserable
and fallen from his excellency. That son sinned in the dawning of the creation, but before
ye can well know what it is, it is eclipsed and darkened with sin and misery as if the Lord
had only set up such a creature in the firmament of glory, to let him know how blessed he could
make him, and wherein his blessedness consists, and then presently to throw him down from his
excellency. When you find him mounting up to the heavens, and spreading himself thus in holiness
and happiness, like a bay-tree, behold again, and you find him not, though you seek him, you
shall not find him, his place doth not know him.  He is like one that comes out with a great
majesty upon a stage, and personates some monarch, or emperor, in the world, and then ere you
can well gather your thoughts, to know what he is, he is turned off the stage, and appears
in some base and despicable appearance. So quickly is man stript of all those glorious ornaments
of holiness, and puts on the vile rags of sin and wretchedness, and is cast from the throne
of eminency above the creatures, and from fellowship with God, to be a slave and servant to
the dust of his feet, and to have communion with the devil and his angels. And now, ye have
man holden out in Scripture as the only wretched piece of the creation, as the very plague
of the world the whole creation groaning under him, (Rom. viii.) and in pain to be delivered
of such a burden, of such an execration and curse and astonishment. You find the testimony
of the word condemns him altogether, concludes him under sin, and then under a curse, and makes
all flesh guilty in God’s sight. The word speaks otherwise of us than we think of ourselves!
“Their imagination is only evil continually,” Gen. vi. 5. O then, what must our affections
be, that are certainly more corrupt! What then must our way be! All flesh hath corrupted their
way, and done abominable works, and “none doeth good,” Psal. xiv. 1, 2, 3. But many flee in
unto their good hearts as their last refuge, when they are beaten from these outworks of their
actions and ways. But the Scripture shall storm that also. “The heart is deceitful above all
things,” who can know it? it is “desperately wicked,” Jer. xvii. 9. In a word, man is become
the most lamentable spectacle in the world, a compend of all wickedness and misery enclosed
within the walls of inability and impossibility to help himself, shut up within a prison of
despair, a linking, loathsome, and irksome dungeon. It is like the miry pit that Jeremiah was
cast into, that there was no out-coming, and no pleasant abode in it.

Now, man’s state being thus,—nay, having made himself thus, and “sought out” to himself such
sad “inventions,” Eccl. vii. 29,—and having “destroyed” himself, Hos. xiii. 9, What think ye?
Should any pity him? If he had fallen into such a pit of misery ignorantly and unwittingly,
he had been an object of compassion, but having cast himself headlong into it, who should have
pity on him? Or, who should “go aside to ask” how he did, or bemoan him? Jer. xv. 5. But behold
the Lord pities man as a father doth his children, Psal. ciii. “His compassions fail not,”
he comes by such a loathsome and contemptible object, and casts his skirts over it, and saith,
“Live!” (Ezek. xvi.) and maketh it a time of love. I say, no flesh could have expected any
more of God than to make man happy and holy, and to promise him life in well-doing, but to
repair that happiness after it was wilfully lost, and to give life to evil-doers and sinners,—O
how far was it from Adam’s expectation when he fled from God!  Here then is the wonder, that
when men and angels were in expectation of the revelation of his wrath from heaven against
their wickedness, and the execution of the curse man was concluded under, that even then God
is pursuing man, and pursues him with love, and opens up to him his very heart and bowels of
love in Jesus Christ! Behold then the second revelation and manifestation of God, in a way
of grace, pure grace—of mercy and pity towards lost sinners “The kindness and love of God our
Saviour toward man [hath] appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according
to his abundant mercy showed in Christ Jesus,” Tit. iii. 4-6. So then, we have this purpose
of God’s love unfolded to us in the Scriptures, and this is the substance of them—both Old
and New Testament—or the end of them, “Christ is the end of the law” (Rom. x. 4) to all sinners
concluded under sin and a curse. By it, our Lord Jesus, the good Ebedmelech, comes and casts
down a cord to us, and draws us up out of the pit of sin and misery. He comes to this prison,
and opens the door to let captives free. So then we have God holden out to us as a redeemer,
as a repairer of our breaches,—“God in Christ reconciling the world,”—“O Israel, thou hast
destroyed thyself, but in me is thine help,” Hos. xiii. 9. He finds to himself “a ransom to
satisfy his justice,” Job xxxiii. 24. He finds a propitiation to take away sin,—a sacrifice
to pacify and appease his wrath. He finds one of our brethren, but yet his own Son in whom
he is well pleased, and then holds out all this to sinners that they may be satisfied in their
own consciences, as he is in his own mind. God hath satisfied himself in Christ, you have not
that to do. He is not now to be reconciled to us, for he was never really at odds, though he
covered his countenance with frowns and threats, since the Fall, and hath appeared in fire
and thunders and whirlwinds which are terrible, yet his heart had always love in it to such
persons; and therefore he is come near in Christ, and about reconciling us to himself. Here
is the business then, to have our souls reconciled to him, to take away the enmity within us,
and as he is satisfied with his Son, so to satisfy ourselves with him, and be as well-pleased
in his redemption and purchase as the Father is, and then you believe indeed in him. Now if
this were accomplished, what have we more to do but to love him and to live to him? When you
have found in the Scripture, and believed with the heart, what man once was, and what he now
is, what God once appeared, and what he now manifests himself in the gospel, ye have no more
to do but to search in the same Scriptures what ye henceforth ought to be. Ye who find your
estate recovered in Christ, ask, “What manner of persons ought we to be?” And the Scripture
shall also give you that “form of sound words,” which may not only teach you to believe in
him, but to love him and obey his commands. The law that before condemned you is now by Christ
put in your hands to guide you and conduct you in the way, and teacheth you how to live henceforth
to his glory. 12. Here is the sum of the rule of your practice and conversation, piety towards
God, equity towards men, and sobriety towards ourselves; self-denial, and world denial, and
lust-denial, to give up with the world and our own lusts,—henceforth to have no more to do
with them,—to resign them, not for a time, not in part, but wholly and for ever in affection,
and by parts in practice and endeavour; and then to resign and give up ourselves to him, to
live to him, and to live in him.

Thus we have given you a sum of the doctrine of the Scriptures, of that which is to be believed,
and that which is to be done as our duty. Now we shall speak a word of these two cardinal graces
which are the compend of all graces,—as the objects of them are the abridgment of the Scriptures,—faith
and love. These “sound words” can profit us nothing, unless we hold them fast with faith and love.

Faith is like the fountain-gate. Streams come out of it that cleanse the conscience from the
guilt of sin, and purify the heart from the filth of sin, because it is that which cometh to
the “fountain opened up in the house of David,” and draweth water out of these “wells of salvation.”
If you consider the fall and ruin of mankind, you will find infidelity and unbelief the fountain
of it as well as the seal of it. Unbelief of the law of God,—of his promises and threatenings.
This was first called in question, and when once called in question, it is half denied. Hath
God said so, that you shall die?—It is not far off.—“Ye shall not surely die.” Here then was
the very beginning of man’s ruin. He did not retain in his knowledge, and believe with his
heart, the truth and faithfulness and holiness of God, which unbelief was conjoined and intermingled
with much pride—“ye shall be as gods.” He began to live out of God, in himself, not remembering
that his life was a stream of that divine fountain, that being cut off from it, would dry up.
Now therefore, our Lord Jesus Christ—an expert Saviour, and very learned and complete for this
work,—he brings man out of this pit of misery by that same way he fell into it. He fell down
by unbelief, and he brings him up out of it by faith. This is the cord that is cast down to
the poor soul in the dungeon, or rather his faith is the dead grip of the cord of divine promises
which is sent unto the captive-prisoner, and by virtue thereof he is drawn out into the light
of salvation. Unbelief of the law of God did first destroy man, now the belief of the gospel
saves him. The not believing of the Lord’s threatenings was the beginning of his ruin, and
believing of his precious promises is salvation. I say no more, as our destruction began at
the unbelief of the law, so our salvation must begin at the belief of it. The law and divine
justice went out of his sight and so he sinned now the law entering into the conscience, discovers
a man’s sins, and makes sin abound, and that is the beginning of our remedy, to know our disease.
But as long as this is hid from a man’s eyes, he is shut up in unbelief, he is sealed and confirmed
in his miserable estate, and so kept from Jesus Christ the remedy. Thus unbelief first and
last destroys. Faith might have preserved Adam and faith again may restore thee who hast fallen
in Adam.

There is a great mistake of faith among us, some taking it for a strong and blind confidence
that admits of no questions or doubts in the soul, and so vainly persuading themselves that
they have it, and some again conceiving it to be such an assurance of salvation as instantly
comforts the soul and looseth all objections, and so foolishly vexing their own souls, and
disquieting themselves in vain, for the want of that which, if they understood what it is,
they would find they have. I say, many souls conceive that to be the best faith that never
doubted, and hath always lodged in them and kept them in peace since they were born. But, seeing
all men were once “aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenant of
promise, and without God in the world,” and so without Christ also, it is certain that those
souls who have always blessed themselves in their own hearts, and cried “Peace, peace,” and
were never afraid of the wrath to come, have embraced an imagination and dream of their own
heart for true faith. It is not big and stout words that will prove it. Men may defy the devil
and all his works, and speak very confidently, and yet, God knows, they are captives by him
at his pleasure, and not far from that misery which they think they have escaped. Satan works
in them with such a crafty conveyance that they cannot perceive it. And how should they perceive
it? For we are “by nature dead in sins,” and so cannot feel or know that we are such. It is
a token of life to feel pain, a certain token, for dead things are senseless. You know how
jugglers may deceive your very senses, and make them believe they see that which is not, and
feel that which they feel not. Oh! how much more easy is it for Satan—such an ingenious and
experimented spirit—assisted with the help of our deceitful hearts, to cast such a mist over
the eyes of hearts, and make them believe any thing! How easily may he hide our misery from
us, and make us believe it is well with us! And thus multitudes of souls perish in the very
opinion of salvation. That very thing which they call faith,—that strong ungrounded persuasion,—is
no other thing than the unbelief of the heart, unbelief, I mean, of the holy law, of divine
justice, and the wrath to come, for if these once entered into the soul’s consideration, they
would certainly cast down that stronghold of vain confidence that Satan keeps all the house
in peace by. Now this secure and presumptuous despising of all threatenings and all convictions,
is varnished over to the poor soul with the colour and appearance of faith in the gospel. They
think, to believe in Christ is nothing else but never to be afraid of hell, whereas it is nothing
else but a soul fleeing into Christ for fear of hell, and fleeing from the wrath to come to
the city of refuge.

Now again, there are some other souls quite contrary minded, that run upon another extremity.
They once question whether they have faith, and always question it. You shall find them always
out of one doubt into another, and still returning upon these debates, Whether am I in Christ,
or not? And often peremptorily concluding that they are not in him, and that they believe not
in him. I must confess, that a soul must once question the matter, or they shall never be certain.
Nay, a soul must once conclude that it is void of God, and without Christ; but having discovered
that, I see no more use and fruit of your frequent debates and janglings about interest. I
would say then unto such souls, that if you now question it, it is indeed the very time to
put it out of question. And how? Not by framing or seeking answers to your objections,—not
by searching into thyself to find some thing to prove it,—not by mere disputing about it, for
when shall these have an end? But simply and plainly by setting about that which is questioned.
Are you in doubt if you be believers? How shall it be resolved then but by believing indeed?
It is now the very time that thou art called to make application of thy soul to Christ, if
thou thinkest thou cannot make application of Christ to thy soul. If thou cannot know if he
be thine, then how shalt thou know it but by choosing him for thine and embracing him in thy
soul? Now I say, if that time which is spent about such unprofitable debates, were spent in
solid and serious endeavours about the thing in debate, it would quickly be out of debate.
If you were more in the obedience to those commands, than in the dispute whether you have obeyed
or not, you would sooner come to satisfaction in it. This I say the rather, because the weightier
and principal parts of the gospel are those direct acts of faith and love to Jesus Christ,
both these are the outgoings of the soul to him. Now again examination of our faith and assurance
are but secondary and consequent reflections upon ourselves, and are the soul returning in
again to itself, to find what is within. Therefore, I say, a Christian is principally called
to the first, and always called. It is the chief duty of man, which, for no evidence, no doubting,
no questioning, should be left undone. If ye be in any hesitation whether you are believers
or not, I am sure the chiefest thing, and most concerning, is, rather to believe than to know
it. It is a Christian’s being to believe, it is indeed his comfort and well being to know it,
but if you do not know it, then by all means so much the more set about it presently. Let the
soul consider Christ and the precious promises, and lay its weight upon him; this you ought
to do, and not to leave the other undone.

Secondly, I say to such souls, that it is the mistake of the very nature of faith that leads
them to such perplexities, and causeth such inevidence. It is not so much the inevidence of
marks and fruits that makes them doubt, as the misapprehension of the thing itself, for as
long as they mistake it in its own nature, no sign, no mark, can satisfy in it. You take faith
to be a persuasion of God’s love that calms and quiets the mind. Now, such a persuasion needs
no signs to know it by, it is manifest by its own presence, as light by its own brightness.
It were a foolish question to ask any, how they knew that they were persuaded of another’s
affection? The very persuasion maketh itself more certain to the soul than any token. So then,
while you question whether you have faith or not, and in the mean time take faith to be nothing
else but such a persuasion, it is in vain to bring any marks or signs to convince you that
you have faith, for if such a persuasion and assurance were in you, it would be more powerful
to assure your hearts of itself than any thing else, and while you are doubting of it, it is
more manifest that you have it not, than any signs or marks can be able to make it appear that
you have it. If any would labour to convince a blind man that he saw the light, and gave him
signs and tokens of the lights shining, the blind man could not believe him, for it is more
certain to himself that he sees not, that any evidence can make the contrary probable. You
are still wishing and seeking such a faith as puts all out of question. Now, when ministers
bring any marks to prove you have true faith, it cannot satisfy or settle you, because your
very questioning proves that ye have not that which ye question. If you had such a persuasion,
you would not question it. So then, as long as you are in that mistake concerning the true
nature of faith, all the signs of the word cannot settle you. But I say, if once you understood
the true nature of faith, it would be more clear in itself unto you, than readily marks and
signs could make it especially in the time of temptation. If you would know, then, what it
is indeed, consider what the word of God holds out concerning himself, or us, and the solid
belief of that in the heart hath something of the nature of saving faith in it. The Lord gives
a testimony concerning man, that he is “born in sin,” that he is “dead in sin,” and all his
“imaginations are only evil continually.” Now, I say, to receive this truth into the soul,
upon God’s testimony, is a point of faith. The Lord in his word “concludes all under sin” and
wrath, so, then, for a soul to conclude itself also under sin and wrath is a point of faith.
Faith is the soul’s testimony to God’s truth, the word is God’s testimony. Now then, if a soul
receive this testimony within, whether it be law or gospel, it is an act of faith. If a soul
condemn itself, and judge itself, that is a setting to our seal that God is true who speaks
in his law, and so it is a believing in God. I say more to believe with the heart that we cannot
believe, is a great point of sound belief, because it is a sealing of that word of God,—“The
heart is desperately wicked,” and “of ourselves we can do nothing.” Now, I am persuaded, if
such souls knew this, they would put an end to their many contentions and wranglings about
this point, and would rather bless God that hath opened their eyes to see themselves, than
contend with him for that they have no faith. It is light only that discovers darkness, and
faith only that discerns unbelief. It is life and health only that feel pain and sickness,
for if all were alike, nothing could be found,(136) as in dead bodies. Now, I say to such souls
as believe in God the Lawgiver, believe also in Christ the Redeemer. And what is that? It is
not to know that I have an interest in him. No, that must come after, it is the Spirit’s sealing
after believing which puts itself out of question when it comes. And so if you had it you needed
not many signs to know it by, at least you would not doubt of it, more than he that sees the
light can question it. But, I say, to believe in Christ is simply this: I,—whatsoever I be,—ungodly,
wretched, polluted, desperate, am willing to have Jesus Christ for my Saviour, I have no other
help, or hope, if it be not in him. It is, I say, to lean the weight of thy soul on this foundation
stone laid in Zion, to embrace the promises of the gospel, albeit general, as “worthy of all
acceptation,” and wait upon the performance of them. It is no other thing but to make Christ
welcome, to say, “ ‘Even so, Lord Jesus,’ I am content in my soul that thou be my Saviour,
to be found in thee, ‘not having my own righteousness.’ ” I am well pleased to cast away my
own as dung, and find myself no other than an ungodly man. Now it is certain that many souls
that are still questioning whether they have faith, yet do find this in their souls, but because
they know not that it is faith which they find, they go about to seek that which is not faith,
and where it is not to be found, and so disquiet themselves in vain, and hinder fruitfulness.

Now, the faith of a Christian is no fancy, it is not a light vain imagination of the brain,
but it dwells in the heart,—“with the heart man believes,” and it dwells with love. Faith and
love, we need not be curious to distinguish them. It is certain that love is in it, and from
it. It is in the very bosom of it, because faith is a soul embracing of Christ, it is a choosing
of him for its portion and then upon the review of this goodly portion, and from consideration
of what he is, and hath done for us, the soul loves him still more, and is impatient of so
much distance from him. We find them conjoined in Scripture, but they are one in the heart.
O that we studied to have these jointly engraven on the heart! As they are joined in the word,
so our heart should be a “living epistle.” Faith and love are two words but one thing under
different notions. They are the outgoings of the soul to Christ for life,—the breathings of
the soul after him, for more of him, when it hath once tasted how good he is. Faith is not
a speculation, or a wandering thought of truth, it is the truth, not captivated into the mind,
but dwelling in the heart, and getting possession of the whole man. You know a man and his
will are one, not so a man and his mind, for he may conceive the truth of many things he loves
not, but whatever a man loves, that and he in a manner become one with another. Love is unitive,
it is the most excellent union of distant things. The will commands the whole man, and hath
the office of applying of all the faculties to their proper works Illa imperat, aliæ exsequuntur.
Therefore when once divine truth gets entry into the heart of a man, and becomes one with his
will and affection, it will quickly command the whole man to practise and execute, and then
he that received “the truth in love” is found a walker in the truth. Many persons captivate
truth in their understandings, as the Gentiles did, they hold or detain it in unrighteousness,
but because it hath no liberty to descend into the heart, and possess that garrison, it cannot
command the man. But oh! it is better to be truth’s captive than to captivate truth, saith
the apostle, “Ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you,”
Rom. vi. 17. O a blessed captivity! to be delivered over to truth,—that is indeed freedom,
for truth makes free, John viii. 32. And it makes free where it is in freedom. Give it freedom
to command thee, and it shall indeed deliver thee from all strange lords; and thou shalt obey
it from the heart when it is indeed in the heart. When the truths of God,—whether promises,
or threatenings or commands,—are impressed into the heart, you shall find the expressions of
them in the conversion. Faith is not an empty assent to the truth, but a receiving of it “in
love,” and when the truth is received in love, then it begins to work by love. “Faith worketh
by love,” saith Paul, Gal. v. 6. That now is the proper nature of its operation which expresses
its own nature. Obedience proceeding from love to God flows from faith in God, and that shows
the true and living nature of that faith. If the soul within receive the seal and impression
of the truth of God, it will render the image of that same truth in all its actions.

Love is put for all obedience. It is made the very sum and compend of the law, the fulfilling
of it; for the truth is the most effectual and constraining principle of obedience, and withal
the most sweet and pleasant. The love of Christ constrains us to live to him, and not henceforth
to ourselves, 2 Cor. v. 14, 15. As I said, a man and his will is one; if you engage it, you
bind all, if you gain it, it will bring all with it. As it is the most ready way to gain any
party, to engage their head whom they follow and upon whom they depend, let a man’s love be
once gained to Christ, and the whole train of the soul’s faculties of the outward senses and
operations, will follow upon it. It was an excellent and pertinent question that Christ asked
Peter, when he was going away, (if Peter had considered Christ’s purpose in it, he would not
have been so hasty and displeased) “Peter, ‘lovest thou me?’ then ‘feed my sheep.’ ” If a man
love Christ, he will certainly study to please him, and though he should do never so much in
obedience, it is no pleasure except it be done out of love. O this, and more of this in the
heart, would make ministers feed well, and teach well, and would make people obey well! “If
ye love me, keep my commandments.” Love devotes and consecrates all that is in a man to the
pleasure of him whom he loves, therefore it fashions and conforms one—even against nature—to
another’s humour and affection. It constrains not to live to ourselves, but to him,—its joy
and delight is in him, and therefore all is given up and resigned to him. Now as it is certain,
that if you love him you will do much, so it is certain that little is accepted for much that
proceeds from love, and therefore, our poor maimed and halting obedience is called “the fulfilling
of the law.” He is well pleased with it, because love is well pleased with it. Love thinks
nothing too much—all too little, and therefore his love thinks any thing from us much, since
he would give more. He accepts that which is given, the lover’s mite cast into the treasury,
is more than ten times so much outward obedience from another man. He meets love with love.
If the soul’s desire be towards the love of his name, if love offer, though a farthing, his
love receiving it counts it a crown. Love offering a present of duty, finds many imperfections
in it, and covers any good that is in it, seems not to regard it, and then beholds it as a
recompense. His love, receiving the present from us, covers a multitude of infirmities that
are in it. And thus, what in the desire and endeavour of love on our part, and what in the
acceptation of what is done on his part, “love is the fulfilling of the law.” It is an usual
proverb. All things are as they are taken; “Love is the fulfilling of the law,” because our
loving Father takes it so, he takes as much delight in the poor children’s willingness, as
in the more aged’s strength, the offer and endeavour of the one pleaseth him, as well as the
performance of the other.

The love of God is the fulfilling of the law, for it is a living law, it is the law written
on the heart, it is the law of a spirit of life within. Quis legem det amantibus? Major lex
amor sibi ipsi est. You almost need not prescribe any rules, or set over the head of love the
authority and pain of a command, for it is a greater law to itself. It hath within its own
bosom as deep an engagement and obligation to any thing that may please God as you can put
upon it,  for it is in itself the very engagement and bond of the soul to him. This is it,
indeed, which will do him service, and that is the service which he likes. It is that only
serves him constantly and pleasantly and constantly; it cannot serve him which doth it not
pleasantly, for it is delight only that makes it constant. Violent motions may be swift, but
not durable; they last not long. Fear and terror is a kind of external impulse that may drive
a soul swiftly to some duty, but because that is not one with a soul, it cannot endure long,
it is not good company to the soul. But love, making a duty pleasant, becomes one with the
soul. It incorporates with it and becomes like its nature to it, that though it should not
move so swiftly, yet moves more constantly. And what is love but the very motion of the soul
to God? And so till it have attained that, to be in him, it can find no place of rest. Now
this is only the service that he is pleased with, which comes from love, because he sees his
own image in it; for love in us is nothing else but the impression and stamp that God’s love
to us makes on the heart. It is that very reflection of that sweet warm beam. So then when
his love reflects back unto himself carrying our heart and duty with it, he knoweth his own
superscription, he loves his own image in such a duty. 23. Here now is an evidence that he
likes it, for he must needs like that place he chooses to dwell in. He who hath such a glorious
mansion and palace above must needs love that soul dearly, that he will prefer it to his high
and holy place.

Now I know it will be the secret question and complaint of some souls, how shall I get love
to God? I cannot love him, my heart is so desperately wicked, I cannot say as Peter, “Lord
thou knowest that I love thee.” I shall not insist upon the discovery of your love unto him
by marks and signs; only I say, if thou indeed from thy heart desirest to love him, and art
grieved that there is not this love in thy soul to him which becomes so love-worthy a Saviour,
then thou indeed lovest him, for he that loveth the love of God, loveth God himself. And wherefore
art thou sad for the want of that love, but because thou lovest him in some measure, and withal
findest him beyond all that thou canst think and love? But I say, that which most concerns
thee is to love still more, and that thou wouldest be still more earnest to love him than to
know that thou lovest him.

Now I know no more effectual way to increase love to Jesus Christ, than to believe his love.
Christ Jesus is “the author and finisher both of faith and love;” and “we love him because
he first loved us.” Therefore the right discovery of Jesus Christ, what he is, and what he
hath done for sinners, is that which will of all things most prevail to engage the soul unto
him. But as long as ye suspend your faith upon the being or increase of your love and obedience—as
the manner of too many is—you take even such a course as he that will not plant the tree till
he see the fruits of it, which is contrary to common sense and reason. Then I beseech you,
hold them fast, salvation is in them. They are “sound words and wholesome words,” words of
life, spirit and life, (as Christ speaks,) as well as words of truth. But how will you hold
them fast that have them not at all—that know them not though you hear them? You who are ignorant
of the gospel and hear nothing but a sound of words, instead of sound and wholesome words,
how can you hold them fast? Can a man hold the wind in the hollow of his hand, or keep a sound
within it? You know no more but a sound and a wind that passeth by your ear, without observing
either truth or life in it. But then again, you who understand these sound words, and have
“a form of knowledge, and of the letter of the law,” what will that avail you? You cannot hold
it fast, except you have it within you, and it is within you indeed when it is in your heart,—when
the form of it is engraven upon the very soul in love. Now, though you understand the sound
of these words, and the sound of truth in them, yet you receive not the living image of them
which is faith and love. Can you paint a sound? Can you form it, or engrave it on any thing?
Nay, but these sound words are more substantial and solid. They must be engraven on the heart,
else you will never hold them. They may be easily plucked out of the mouth and hand by temptation,
unless they be enclosed and laid up in the secret of the heart as Mary laid them. The truth
must hold thee fast or thou canst not hold it fast; it must captivate thee, and bind thee with
the golden chains of affection, which only is true freedom, or certainly thou wilt let it go.
Nay, you must not only have the truth received by love unto your heart but, as the apostle
speaks, you must also “hold fast the form of sound words.” Scripture words are sound words;
the Scripture method of teaching is sound and wholesome. There may be unsound words used in
expressing true matter, and if a man shall give liberty to his own luxuriant imagination to
expatiate in notions and expressions, either to catch the ear of the vulgar, or to appear some
new discoverer of light and gospel mysteries, he may as readily fall into error and darkness
as into truth and light. Some men do brisk up old truths, Scripture truths, into some new dress
of language and notions and then give them out for new discoveries, new lights, but in so doing,
they often hazard the losing of the truth itself. We should beware and take heed of strange
words that have the least appearance of evil such as Christed and Godded.(137) Let us think
it enough to be wise according to the Scriptures, and suspect all that as vain empty, unsound,
that tends not to the increase of faith in Christ and love and obedience unto him, as ordinarily
the dialect of those called Antinomians is. Giving, and not granting, that they had no unsound
mind, yet I am sure they use unsound words to express sound matter. The clothes should be shaped
to the person. Truth is plain and simple; let words of truth also be full of simplicity. I
say no more but leave that upon you that you hold fast even the very words of the Scriptures
and be not bewitched by the vain pretensions of spirit—all spirit,—pure and spiritual service,—and
such like, to the casting off of the word of truth, as letter, as flesh. And such is the high
attainment of some in these days—an high attainment indeed, and a mighty progress in the way
to destruction—the very last discovery of that Antichrist and man of sin. Oh, make much of
the Scripture for you shall neither read not hear the like of it in the world! Other books
may have sound matter, but there is still something, in manner or words, unsound. No man can
speak to you truth in such plainness and simplicity, in such soundness also. But here is both
sound matter, and sound words, the truth holden out truly; health and salvation holden out
in as wholesome a matter as is possible. Matter and manner are both divine.

                               Lecture VII.

Of The Name Of God

    Exod. iii.

It used to be a question. If there be God? Or, how it may be known that there is a  God? It
were almost blasphemy to move such a question, if there were not so much Atheism in the hearts
of men, which makes us either to doubt, or not firmly to believe and seriously to consider
it. But what may convince souls of the Divine Majesty?  Truly, I think, if it be not evident
by its own brightness, all the reason that can he brought is but like a candle’s light to see
the sun by! Yet, because of our weakness the Lord shines upon us in the creatures, as in a
glass and this is become the best way to take up the glorious brightness of his majesty by
reflection in his word and works. God himself dwells in light inaccessible that no man can
approach unto, if any look straight to that Sun of Righteousness, he shall be astonished and
amazed and see no more than in the very darkness. If this be not the “speech that” day uttereth
unto day, and night unto night, “One self Being gave me a being,” and if thou hear not that
language that is “gone out into all the earth,” and be not, as it were, noised and possessed
with all the sounds of every thing about thee, above thee, beneath thee, yea, and within thee,
all singing a melodious song to that excellent name which is above all names and conspiring
to give testimony to the fountain of their being if this, I say, be not so sensible unto thee
as if a tongue and a voice were given to every creature to express it, then, indeed, we need
not reason the business with thee who hast lost thy senses. Do but, I say, retire inwardly,
and ask in sobriety and sadness, what thy conscience thinks of it, and undoubtedly it shall
confess a divine majesty, or at least tremble at the apprehension of what it either will not
confess or slenderly believes. The very evidence of truth shall extort an acknowledgment from
it. If any man denied the divine majesty, I would seek no other argument to persuade him than
what was used to convince an old philosopher who denied the fire: they put his hand in it till
he felt it. So I say, return within to thy own conscience and thou shalt find the scorching
heat of that Divine Majesty burning it up, whom thou wouldst not confess. There is an inward
feeling and sense of God that is imprinted in every soul by nature that leaves no man without
such a testimony of God, that makes him “without excuse there is no man so impious so atheistical,
but whether he will or not, he shall feel at some times that which he loves not to know or
consider of, so that what rest secure consciences have from the fear and terror of God, it
is like the sleep of a drunken man, who, even when he sleeps, does not rest quietly.”

Now, although this inward stamp of a Deity be engraven on the minds of all, and every creature
without have some marks of his glory stamped on them, so that all things a man can behold above
him, or about him, or beneath him, the most mean and inconsiderable creatures, are pearls and
transparent stones that cast abroad the rays of that glorious brightness which shines on them,
as if a man were enclosed into a city built all of precious stones, that in the sunshine all
and every parcel of it, the streets, the houses, the roofs, the windows all of it, reflected
into his eyes those sunbeams in such a manner as it all had been one mirror—though, I say,
this be so, yet such is the blockishness and stupidity of men that they do not, for all this,
consider of the glorious Creator, so that all these lamps seem to be lighted in vain to show
forth his glory, which, though they do every way display their beams upon us, that we can turn
our eye nowhere but such a ray shall penetrate it, yet we either do not consider it, or the
consideration of it takes not such deep root as to lead home to God. Therefore the Scripture
calls all natural men atheists. They have “said in their heart, there is no God,” Psal. xiv.
1. All men almost confess a God with their mouth, and think they believe in him, but alas!
behold their actions and hearts, what testimony they give for a man’s walking and conversation
is like an eye witness, that one of them deserves more credit than ten ear-witnesses of professions,—Plus
valet oculatus testis unus, quam auriti decem. Now, I may ask of you, what would ye do, how
would ye walk, if ye believed there were no God? Would ye be more dissolute and profane, and
more void of religion? Would not human laws bind you as much in that case as they now do? For
that is almost all the restraint that is upon many,—the fear of temporal punishment, or shame
among men. Set your walking beside a heathen’s conversation, and save that you say, ye believe
in the true God, and he denies him, there is no difference. Your transgressions speak louder
than your professions, “that there is no fear of God before your eyes”, Psal. xxxvi. 1. Your
practice belies your profession, you “profess that you know God, but in works you deny him,”
saith Paul, Tit. i. 16 Ore quod dicitis, opere negatis.

In the words read in your audience, you have a strange question, and a strange answer: a question
of Moses and an answer of God. The occasion of it was the Lord’s giving to Moses a strange
and uncouth message. He was giving him commission to go and speak to a king to dismiss and
let go six hundred thousand of his subjects, and to speak to a numerous nation to depart from
their own dwellings and come out whither the lord should lead them. Might not Moses then say
within himself, “ ‘Who am I, to speak such a thing to a King? Who am I, to lead out such a
mighty people? Who will believe that thou hast sent me? Will not all men call me a deceiver,
an enthusiastical fellow, that take upon me such a thing?’ Well then, saith Moses to the Lord,—‘Lord,
when I shall say, that the God of their fathers sent me unto them, they will not believe me,
they have now forgotten thy majesty, and think that thou art but even like the vanities of
the nations, they cannot know their own portion from other nations vain idols which they have
given the same name unto, and call gods as well as thou art called. Now therefore,’ says he,
‘when they ask me what thy proper name is by which thou art distinguished from all idols, and
all the works of thine own hands, and of men’s hands, what shall I say unto them? Here is the
question.’ But why askest thou my name? saith the Lord to Jacob,” Gen. xxxii. 29. Importing,
that it is high presumption and bold curiosity to search such wonder. Ask not my name, saith
the angel to Manoah, for “it is secret or wonderful.” Judges xiii. 18. It is a mystery, a hidden
mystery, not for want of light, but for too much light. It is a secret, it is wonderful, out
of the reach of all created capacity. Thou shalt call his name “Wonderful,” Isa. ix. 6. What
name can express that incomprehensible Majesty? The mind is more comprehensive than words,
but the mind and soul is too narrow to conceive him. O then! how short a garment must all words,
the most significant and comprehensive and superlative words be? Solomon’s soul and heart was
enlarged as the sand of the sea, but O it is not large enough for the Creator of it! “What
is his name, and what is his Son’s name, if thou canst tell?” Prov. xxx. 4. The Lord himself
expresses it to our capacity, because we are not capable of what he can express, much less
of what he is. If he should speak to us of himself as he is, O, it should be “dark sayings,”
hid from the understandings of all living! We could reach no more of it, but that it is a wonder,
a secret. Here is the highest attainment of our knowledge, to know there is some mystery in
it, but not what that mystery is. Christ hath a name above all names, how then can we know
that name? It was well said by some of old, Deus est πολυωονμος and yet ανωνυμος multorum nominum,
et tamen nullius nominis, he hath all names, and yet he hath no name. quia est omnia, et tamen
nihil omnium, because he is all in all, and yet none of all, Deus est quod vides, et quod non
vides. You may call him by all the works of his hands, for these are beams of his uncreated
light, and streams of his inexhaustible sea of goodness, so that whatever perfection is in
them, all that is eminently, yea, infinitely in him. Therefore saith Christ, “There is one
good, even God and he calls himself ‘the light of life,’ ” and therefore you have so many names
of God in Scripture. There is no quality, no property, or virtue, that hath the least shadow
of goodness, but he is that essentially, really, eternally, and principally, so that the creature
deserves not such names but as they participate of his fulness. He is the true light, the true
life, the sun is not that true light though it give light to the moon and to men, for it borrows
its light and shining from him. All creatures are and shine but by reflection, therefore these
names do agree to them but by a metaphor so to speak, the propriety and truth of them is in
him. As it is but a borrowed kind of speech to call a picture or image a man—only because of
the representation and likeness to him it communicates in one name with him—even so, in some
manner, the creatures are but some shadows, pictures, or resemblances, and equivocal shapes
of God, and whatever name they have of good, wise, strong, beautiful, true, or such like, it
is borrowed speech from God whose image they have. And yet poor vain man would be wise,—thought
wise really, intrinsically in himself, and properly,—calls himself so; which is as great an
abuse of language as if the picture should call itself a true and living man. But then, as
you may call him all things, because he is eminently and gloriously all that is in all, the
fountain and end of all, yet we must again deny that he is any of these things. Unus omnia,
et nihil omnium. We can find no name to him; or what can you call him, when you have said,
“He is light?” You can form no other notion of him but from the resemblance of this created
light. But alas! that he is not, he as infinitely transcends that, and is distant from it,
as if he had never made it according to his likeness. His name is above all these names, but
what it is himself knows, and knows only.

If ye ask what he is, we may glance at some notions and expressions to hold him out. In relation
to the creatures, we may call him Creator, Redeemer, Light, Life, Omnipotent, Good, Merciful,
Just, and such like; but if you ask, what is his proper name in relation to himself, ipse novit,
himself knows that, we must be silent, and silence in such a subject is the rarest eloquence.
But let us hear what the Lord himself speaks, in answer to this question. If any can tell,
sure he himself knows his own name best. “I am (saith he) what I am.” Sum qui sum. “Go tell
them that I AM hath sent thee.” A strange answer, but an answer only pertinent for such a question.
What should Moses make of this? What is he the wiser of his asking? Indeed he might be the
wiser, it might teach him more by silence than all human eloquence could instruct him by speaking.
His question was curious, and behold an answer short and dark, to confound vain and presumptuous
mortality,—“I am what I am,” an answer that does not satisfy curiosity, for it leaves room
for the first question, and What art thou? But abundant to silence faith and sobriety, that
it shall ask no more, but sit down and wonder.

There are three things I conceive imported in this name: God’s unsearchableness, God’s unchangeableness,
and God’s absoluteness. His ineffability, his eternity, and his sovereignty and independent
subsistence, upon whom all other things depend. I say,

1. His unsearchableness. You know it is our manner of speech when we would cover any thing
from any, and not answer any thing distinctly to them, we say, “It is what it is, I have said
what I have said, I will not make you wiser of it.” Here then is the fittest notion you can
take up God into, to find him unsearchable beyond all understanding, beyond all speaking. The
more ye speak or think, to find him always beyond what ye speak or think, whatever you discover
of him, to conceive that infiniteness is beyond that, ad finem cujus pertransire non potest,
the end of which you cannot reach, that he is an unmeasurable depth, a boundless ocean of perfection,
that you can neither sound the bottom of it, nor find the breadth of it! Can a child wade the
sea, or take it up in the hollow of its hand? Whenever any thing of God is seen, he is seen
a wonder, “Wonderful is the name he is known by”. All our knowledge reacheth no further than
admiration. “Who is like unto thee?” Exod. xv. 11, Psalm lxxxix. 6, 7, and admiration speaks
ignorance. The greatest attainment of knowledge reacheth but to such a question as this, Who
is like to thee? to know only that he is not like any other thing that we know, but not to
know what he is. And the different degrees of knowledge are but in more admiration or less
at his unconceivableness, and in more or less affection expressed in such pathetic interrogations,
O who is like the Lord? How excellent is his name? Here is the greatest degree of saints knowledge
here away, to ask with admiration and affection such a question that no answer can be given
to or none that we can conceive or understand so as to satisfy wondering but such as still
more increaseth it. There is no other subject but you may exceed it in apprehensions and in
expressions. O how often are men’s songs and thoughts and discourses above the matter! But
here is a subject that there is no excess into; nay, there is no access unto it, let be excess
in it. Imagination that can transcend the created heavens and earth, and fancy to itself millions
of new worlds, every one exceeding another, and all of them exceeding this in perfection, yet
it can do nothing here. That which at one instant can pass from the one end of heaven to the
other, walk about the circumference of the heavens, and travel over the breadth of the sea,
yet it can do nothing here. Imagination cannot travel in these bounds, for his centre is everywhere,
and his circumference nowhere, as an old philosopher speaks of God Deus est, cujus centrum
est ubique, circumferentia nusquam. How shall it then find him out? There is nothing sure here,
but to lose ourselves in a mystery, and to follow his majesty till we be swallowed up with
an—O altitudo! O the depth and height and length and breadth of God! O the depth of his wisdom!
O the height of his power! O the breadth of his love! And O the length of his eternity! It
is not reason and disputation, saith Bernard, will comprehend these, but holiness, and that
by stretching out the arms of fear and love, reverence and affection. What more dreadful than
power that cannot be resisted, and wisdom that none can be hid from? and what more lovely than
the love wherewith he hath so loved us, and his unchangeableness which admits of no suspicion?
O fear him who hath a hand that doth all, and an eye that beholds all things, and love him
who hath so loved us, and cannot change! God hath been the subject of the discourses and debates
of men in all ages; but oh! Quam longe est in rebus qui est tam communis in vocibus? How little
a portion have men understood of him? How hath he been hid from the eyes of all living? Every
age must give this testimony of him,—we have heard of his fame, but he is hid from the eyes
of all living. I think, that philosopher that took it to his advisement, said more in silence
than all men have done in speaking. Simonides being asked by Hiero, a king, what God was, asked
a day to deliberate in and think upon it. When the king sought an account of his meditation
about it, he desired yet two days more; and so as oft as the king asked him, he still doubled
the number of the days in which he might advise upon it. The king wondering at this, asked
what he meant by those delays; saith he, Quanto magis considero, tanto magis obscurior mihi
videtur,—“the more I think on him, he is the more dark and unknown to me.” This was more real
knowledge than in the many subtile disputations of those men who, by their poor shell of finite
capacity and reason, presume to empty the ocean of God’s infiniteness, by finding out answers
to all the objections of carnal reason against all those mysteries and riddles of the Deity.
I profess, I know nothing can satisfy reason in this business, but to lead it captive to the
obedience of faith, and to silence it with the faith of a mystery which we know not. Paul’s
answer is one for all, and better than all the syllogisms of such men, “Who art thou, O man!
who disputest? Dispute thou: I will believe.” Ut intelligatur, tacendum est. Silence only can
get some account of God, quiet and humble ignorance in the admiration of such a majesty is
the profoundest knowledge. Non est mirum si ignoretur, majoris esset admirationis si sciatur.
It is no wonder that God is not known, all the wonder were to know and comprehend such a wonder,
such a mystery. It is a wonder indeed, that he is not more known, but when I say so, I mean
that he is not more wondered at because he is passing knowledge. If our eyes of flesh cannot
see any thing almost when they look straight and steadfastly upon the sun, O what can the eye
of the soul behold, when it is fixed upon the consideration of that shining and glorious majesty!
Will not that very light be as darkness to it, that it shall be as it were darkness and dazzled
with a thick mist of light in superlucente caligine,—confounded with that resplendent darkness?
It is said that the Lord “covers himself with light as with a garment,” Psal. civ. 2, and yet
“clouds and darkness are round about him,” Psal. xcvii. 2, and he makes darkness his [covering]
secret place, Psal. xviii. 11. His inaccessible light is this glorious darkness, that strikes
the eyes of men blind; as in the darkness, the sun’s light is the night owl’s night and darkness.
When a soul can find no better way to know him by, than by these names and notions by which
we deny our own knowledge, when it hath conceived all of him it can, then, as being overcome
with that dazzling brightness of his glory, to think him inconceivable and to express him in
such terms as withal expresses our ignorance. There is no name agrees more to God, than that
which saith, we cannot name him, we cannot know him, such as invisible, incomprehensible, infinite,
&c. This, Socrates, an heathen, professed to be all his knowledge, that he knew he did know
nothing, and therefore he preached an unknown God to the Athenians, to whom, after, they erected
an altar with that inscription, “To the unknown God.” I confess, indeed, the most part of our
discourses, of our performances, have such a writing on them, “to the unknown God!” because
we think we know him, and so we know nothing. But oh! that Christians had so much knowledge
of God, so much true wisdom, as solidly, and willingly to confess in our souls our own ignorance
of him, and then I would desire no other knowledge, and growing in the grace of God, but to
grow more and more in the believing ignorance of such a mystery, in the knowledge of an unknown,
unconceivable and unsearchable God; that in all the degrees of knowledge we might still conceive
we had found less, and that there is more to be found than before we apprehended. This is the
most perfect knowledge of God, that doth not drive away darkness, but increases it in the soul’s
apprehension. Any increase in it doth not declare what God is, or satisfy one’s admiration
in it, but rather shows him to be more invisible and unsearchable. So that the darkness of
a soul’s ignorance is more manifested by this light, and not more covered; and one’s own knowledge
is rather darkened, and disappears in the glorious appearance of this light. For in all new
discoveries, there is no other thing appears but this, that that which the soul is seeking
is supereminently unknown, and still further from knowledge than ever it conceived it to be.
Therefore, this must be thy soul’s exercise and progress in it, to remove all things, all conceptions
from him, as not beseeming his majesty, and to go still forward in such a dark negative discovery,
till thou know not where to seek him, nor find him. Si quis Deum videat et intelligat quod
vidit, Deum non vidit, if any see God, and understand what they see, God they do not see; for,
“God hath no man seen,” 1 John iv. 12; “and no man knows the Father but the Son, and none knows
the Son but the Father.” It is his own property to know himself as it is to be himself. Silent
and seeing ignorance is our safest and highest knowledge.

                              Lecture VIII.

The Eternity And Unchangeableness Of God.

    Exod. iii. 14.—“I AM THAT I AM.”—Psal. xc. The Lord
gives a definition of himself, but such an one as is no more clear than
himself to our capacities; a short one indeed, and you may think it says
not much—“I am.” What is it that may not say so, “I am that I am?” The
least and most inconsiderable creature hath its own being. Man’s wisdom
would have learned him to call himself by some high styles, as the manner
and custom of kings and princes is, and such as the flattery of men
attributes unto them. You would think the superlatives of wise, good,
strong, excellent, glorious, and such like, were more beseeming his
majesty; and yet there is more majesty in this simple style than in all
others; but a “natural man” cannot behold it, for it is “spiritually
discerned.” “Let the potsherd,” saith he, “strive with the potsherds of
the earth,” [Isa. xlv. 9,] but let them not strive with their Maker. So I
say, let creatures compare with creatures; let them take superlative
styles, in regard of others. Let some of them be called good, and some
better, in the comparison among themselves; but God must not enter in the
comparison. Paul thinks it an odious comparison, to compare present
crosses to eternal glory: “I think them not worthy to be compared,” saith
Paul, Rom. viii. 18. But how much more odious is it, to compare God with
creatures? Call  him  highest, call him most powerful, call him most
excellent, almighty, most glorious in respect of creatures, you do but
abase his majesty, to bring it down to any terms of comparison with them
which is beyond all the bounds of understanding. All these do but express
him to be in some degree eminently seated above the creatures, as some
creatures are above all others! so you do no more but make him the head of
all as some one creature is the head of one line or kind under it; but
what is that to his majesty? He speaks otherwise of himself, Isa. xl. 17.
“All nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted to him less
than nothing.” Then, certainly, you have not taken up the true notion of
God when you have conceived him the most eminent of all  beings, as long
as any being appears as a being in his sight before whom all beings
conjoined are as nothing. While you conceive God to be the best, you still
attribute something to the creature; for all comparatives include the
positive in both extremes: so then, you take up only some different
degrees between them who differ so infinitely, so incomprehensibly. The
distance betwixt heaven and earth is but a poor similitude to express the
distance between God and creatures. What is the distance betwixt a being
and nothing? Can you measure it? Can you imagine it? Suppose you take the
most high, and the most low, and measure the distance betwixt them, you do
but consider the difference betwixt two beings, but you do not express how
far nothing is distant from any of them. Now, if any thing could be
imagined less than nothing, could you at all guess at the vast distance
between it and a being? so it is here. Thus saith the Lord, “all nations,”
their glory, perfection, and number, all of them, and all their
excellencies united,—do not amount to the value of an unit in regard of my
Majesty; all of them like ciphers, join never so many of them together,
they can never make up a number, they are nothing in this regard, and less
than nothing. So then, we ought thus to conceive of God, and thus to
attribute a being and life to him, as in his sight and in the
consideration of it all created beings might evanish out of our sight;
even as the glorious light of the sun, though it do not annihilate the
stars, and make them nothing, yet it annihilates their appearance to our
senses, and makes them disappear as if they were not. Although there be a
great difference and inequality of the stars in the night,—some lighter,
some darker, some of the first magnitude, and some of the second and
third, &c. some of greater glory, and some of less,—but in the day-time
all are alike, all are darkened by the sun’s glory, even so it is
here,—though we may compare one creature with another, and find different
degrees of perfection and excellency, while we are only comparing them
among themselves; but let once the glorious brightness of God shine upon
the soul, and in that light all these lights shall be obscured, all their
differences unobserved. An angel and a man, a man and a worm, differ much
in glory and perfection of being: but oh! in his presence there is no such
reckoning. Upon this account all things are alike, God infinitely distant
from all, and so not more or less. Infiniteness is not capable of such
terms of comparison. This is the reason why Christ says, “There is none
good but one, even God.” Why, because in respect of his goodness, nothing
deserves that name. Lesser light, in the view of the greater, is a
darkness, as less good in comparison of a greater appears evil; how much
more then shall created light and created goodness lose that name and
notion, in the presence of that “uncreated  Light, and self-sufficient
Goodness.” And therefore it is, that the Lord calls himself after this
manner, “I am as if nothing else were. I will not say,” saith he, “that I
am the highest, the best and most glorious that is—that supposeth other
things to have some being, and some glory that is worthy the accounting
of—but I am, and there is none else; I am alone; I lift up my hand to
heaven, and swear I live for ever.” There is nothing else can say, I am, I
live, and there is nothing else; for there is nothing hath it of itself.
Can any boast of that which they have borrowed, and is not their own? As
if the bird that had stolen from other birds its fair feathers should come
forth and contend with them about beauty; would not they presently every
one pluck out their own, and leave her naked, to be an object of mockery
to all! Even so, since our breath and being is in our nostrils, and that
depends upon his Majesty’s breathing upon us, if he should but keep in his
breath, as it were, we should vanish into nothing; he looketh upon man and
he is not, Job vii. 8. That is a strange look, that looks man not only out
of countenance, but out of life and being. He looks him into his first
nothing; and then can he say, “I live, I am”? No, he must always say of
himself in respect of God, as Paul of himself in respect of Christ, “I
live, yet not I, but Christ in me.” I am, yet not I, but God in me. I
live, I am, yet not I, but in God, in whom I live and have my being. So
that there is no other thing, besides God, can say, “I am;” because all
things are but borrowed drops of this self-sufficient fountain, and
sparkles of this primitive light. Let any thing intervene between the
stream and the fountain, and it is cut off and dried up; let any thing be
interposed between the sun and the beam, and it evanishes. Therefore, this
fountain-being, this original light, this self-being, αυτο ον, as Plato
called him, deserves only the name of being; other things that we call
after that name are nearer nothing than God, and so, in regard of his
majesty, may more fitly be called nothing than something. You see then how
profound a mystery of God’s absolute self-sufficient perfection, is
infolded in these three letters, I AM, or in these four, Jehovah. If you
ask what is God? There is nothing occurs better than this, “I am,” or, he
that is. If I should say he is the almighty, the only wise, the most
perfect, the most glorious, it is all contained in that word, “I am that I
am,” Nempe hoc est ei esse, hæc omnia esse; for that is to be, indeed,
to be all those perfections simply, absolutely, and, as it were, solely.
If I say all that, and should reckon out all the scripture-epithets, I add
nothing; if I say no more, I diminish nothing.

As this holds out God’s absolute perfection, so we told you that it imports his eternity and
unchangeableness. You know Pilate’s speech, “What I have written I have written;” wherein he
meant that he would not change it; it should stand so. 2. Now this is properly to be; and this
only deserves the name of being, which never was nothing, and never shall be nothing; which
may always say, “I am.” You know it is so with nothing else but God. The heavens and earth,
with the things therein, could not say, six thousand years ago, “I am.” Adam could once have
said, “I am,” but now he cannot say it; for that self-being and fountain-being hath said to
him, return to dust. And so it is with all the generations past; where are they now? They were,
but they are not. And we then were not, and now are; for we are come in their place, but within
a little time, Who of us can say, “I am.” No, “we flee away; and are like a dream, as when
one awaketh!” We “are like a tale that is told,” that makes a present noise, and it is past.
Within few years this generation will pass, and none will make mention of us; our place will
not know us, no more than we do now remember those who have been before. Christ said of John,
“he was a burning and shining light;” “he was,” saith he, but now he is not. But Christ may
always say, “I am the light and life of men.” Man is; but look a little backward, and he was
not; you shall find his original. And step a little forward and he shall not be, you shall
find his end. But God is “Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end.” But oh! who can retire
so far backward as to apprehend a beginning; or go such a start forward as to conceive an end
in such a being as is the beginning and end of all things, but without all beginning and end?
Whose understanding would it not confound? There is no way here but to flee to Paul’s sanctuary,
“O the height and breadth, and length and depth!” We cannot imagine a being, but we must first
conceive it nothing, and in some instant receiving its being; and, therefore, “Canst thou by
searching find out God?” Therefore what his being is hath not entered into the heart of man
to consider. If any man would live out the space but of two generations he would be a world’s
wonder; but if any had their days prolonged as the patriarchs before the flood, they would
be called ancient indeed, but then the heavens and earth are far more ancient. We may go backward
the space of near six thousand years in our own minds, and yet be as far from his beginning
as we were. When we are come to the beginning of all things, a man’s imagination may yet extend
itself further, and suppose to itself as many thousands of years before the beginning of time,
as all the angels and men of all nations and generations from the beginning, if they had been
employed in no other thing but this, could have summed up; and then suppose a product to be
made of all the several sums of years, it would be vast and unspeakable; but yet your imagination
could reach further, and multiply that great sum into itself as often as there are units in
it. Now when you have done all this, you are never a whit nearer the days of “the Ancient of
days.” Suppose then this should be the only exercise of men and angels throughout all eternity;
all this marvellous arithmetic would not amount unto the least shadow of the continuance of
him who is “from everlasting.” All that huge product of all the multiplications of men and
angels, hath no proportion unto that never-beginning and never-ending duration. The greatest
sum that is imaginable hath a certain proportion to the least number, that it containeth it
so oft and no oftener; so that the least number being multiplied will amount unto the greatest
that you can conceive. But O! where shall a soul find itself here? It is enclosed between infiniteness
before and infiniteness behind,—between two everlastings; which way soever it turns, there
is no outgoing; which way soever it looks, it must lose itself in an infiniteness round about
it. It can find no beginning and no end, when it hath wearied itself in searching, which, if
it find not, it knows not what it is, and cannot tell what it is. Now what are we then? O what
are we, who so magnify ourselves! “We are but of yesterday, and know nothing,” Job viii. 9.
Suppose that we had endured the space of a thousand years, yet saith Moses, Psal. xc. 4, “A
thousand years are but as yesterday in thy sight.” Time hath no succession to thee. Thou beholdest
at once what is not at once, but in several times; all that may thus happen hath not the proportion
of one day to thy days. We change in our days, and are not that to-day we were yesterday; but
“he is the same yesterday, and to-day, and for ever,” Heb. xiii. 8. Every day we are dying,
some part of our life is taken away; we leave still one day more behind us, and what is behind
us is gone and cannot be recovered. Though we vainly please ourselves in the number of our
years, and the extent of our life, and the vicissitudes of time, yet the truth is, we are but
still losing to much of our being and time as passeth. First, we lose our childhood, then we
lose our manhood; and then we leave our old age behind us also; and there is no more before
us. Even the very present day we divide it with death. But when he moves all things, he remains
immoveable. Though days and years be in a continual flux and motion about him, and they carry
us down with their force, yet he abides, the same for ever. Even the earth that is established
so sure, and the heavens that are supposed to be incorruptible, yet they “wax old as doth a
garment;” but he is the same, and “his years have no end,” Psal. cii. 26, 27. Sine principio
principium; absque fine finis; cui præteritum non abit, haud adit futurum; ante omnia post
omnia totus unus ipse,—He is the beginning without any beginning; the end without an end: there
is nothing bypast to him, and nothing to come. Sed uno mentis cernit in ictu, quæ sunt, quæ
erunt, quæ fuerantque.—he is one that is all, before all, after all, and in all. He beholds
out of the exaled and supereminent tower of eternity, all the successions and changes of the
creatures; and there is no succession, no mutation in his knowledge, as in ours. “Known to
him are all his works from the beginning.” He can declare the end before the beginning; for
he knows the end of all things, before he gives them beginning. Therefore he is never driven
to any consultation upon any emergence, or incident, as the wisest of men are, who could not
foresee all accidents and events; but “he is in one mind,” saith Job; and that one mind and
one purpose is one for all, one concerning all. He had it from everlasting, and who can turn
him? For he will accomplish what his soul desires.

Now, “canst thou by searching find out God?” Canst thou, a poor mortal creature, either ascend
up into the height of heaven, or descend down into the depths of hell? Canst thou travel abroad,
and compass all the sea and dry land, by its longitude and latitude? Would any mortal creature
undertake such a voyage, to compass the universe? Nay, not only so, but to search into every
corner of it, above and below, on the right hand and on the left? No certainly, unless we suppose
a man whose head reaches unto the height of heaven, and whose feet is down in the depths of
hell, and whose arms, stretched out, can fathom the length of the earth, and breadth of the
sea; unless, I say, we suppose such a creature, then it is in vain to imagine, that either
the height of the one, or the depth of the other,—the length of the one, and the breadth of
the other, can be found out and measured. Now, if mortal creatures cannot attain the measure
of that which is finite, O then, what can a creature do? What can a creature know of him that
is infinite, and the maker of all these things? 12. Thou canst not measure the circumference
of the heaven, how then canst thou find out him, “who metes out heaven with the span,” “and
stretcheth them out as a curtain?” Isa. xl. 12, 22. You cannot number the nations, or perceive
the magnitude of the earth, and the huge extent of the heavens, what then canst thou know of
him, “who sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers
before him?” and he spreadeth out the heavens “as a tent to dwell in!” Isa. xl. 22. He made
all the pins and stakes of this tabernacle, and he fastened them below but upon nothing, and
stretches this curtain about them and above them; and it was not so much difficulty to him,
as to you to draw the curtain about your bed; for “he spake, and it was done, he commanded,
and it stood fast.” Canst thou by searching find him out? And yet thou must search him; not
so much out of curiosity to know what he is, for he dwelleth in “the light which no man can
approach unto,” which no man hath seen, and no man can see, 1 Tim. vi. 16; not so much to find
him, as to be found of him, or to find what we cannot know when we have found. Hic est qui
nunquam quæri frusta potes, cum tamen inveniri non potest. You may seek him, but though you
never find him, yet ye shall not seek him in vain, for ye shall find blessedness in him. Though
you find him, yet can you search him out unto perfection? Then what you have found were not
God. How is it possible for such narrow hearts to frame an apprehension, or receive an impression
of such an immense greatness, and eternal goodness? Will not a soul lose its power of thinking
and speaking, because there is so much to be thought and spoken; and it so transcends all that
it can think or speak? Silence then must be the best rhetoric; and the sweetest eloquence,
when eloquence itself must become dumb and silent. It is the abundance and excess of that inaccessible
light, that hath no proportion to our understandings, that strikes us as blind as, in the darkness,
the wont of light. All that we can say of God is, that whatsoever we can think or conceive,
he is not that, because he hath not entered into the heart of man to conceive, and that he
is not like any of those things which we know, unto which if he be not like, we cannot frame
any similitude or likeness of him in our knowledge. What then shall we do? Seek him and search
him indeed: but, if we cannot know him, to reverence and fear and adore what we know. So much
of him may be known as may teach us our duty and show unto us our blessedness. Let then all
our inquiries of him have a special relation to this end, that, we may out of love and fear
of such a glorious and good God, worship and serve him, and compose ourselves according to
his will and wholly to his pleasure. Whatever thou knowest of God, or searchest of him, it
is but a vain speculation, and a work of curiosity, if it do not lead to this end,—to frame
and fashion thy soul to an union and communion with him in love; if it do not discover thyself
unto thyself, that in that light of God’s glorious majesty thou mayest distinctly behold thy
own vileness and wretched misery, thy darkness and deadness and utter impotency. The angels
that Isaiah saw attending God in the temple, had wings covering their faces, and wings covering
their feet. Those excellent spirits who must cover their feet from us, because we cannot behold
their glory, as Moses behoved to be veiled, yet they cannot behold his glory, but must cover
their face from the radiant and shining brightness of his majesty. Yet they have other two
wings to fly with. And being thus composed in reverence and fear to God, they are ready to
execute his commands willingly and swiftly, Isa. vi. 1-3, &c. But what is the use Isaiah makes
of all this glorious sight? “Woe is me! I am a man of unclean lips,” &c. Oh! all is unclean,—people,
and pastor! He had known, doubtless, something of it before, but now he sees it of new, as
if he had never seen it. The glory of God shining on him doth not puff him up in arrogancy
and conceit of the knowledge of such profound mysteries, but he is more abased in himself by
it. It shines into his heart and whole man, and lets him see all unclean within and without.
And so it was with Job, Job xliii. 5, 6. “I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear;”
but as long as it was hearsay, I thought myself something,—I often reflected upon myself and
actions, with a kind of self-complacency and delight; but now, saith he, since I have seen
thee by the seeing of the eye, “I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes;” I cannot look
upon myself with patience,—without abhorrency and detestation. Self-love made me loathe other
men’s sins more than mine own, and self-love did cover mine own sins from me; it presented
me to myself in a feigned likeness; but now I see myself in my true shape, and all coverings
stripped off. Thy light hath pierced into my soul, and behold, I cannot endure to look upon
myself. Here now is the true knowledge of God’s majesty, which discovers within thee a mystery
of iniquity: and here is the knowledge of God indeed, which abases all things besides God,
not only in opinion but in affection, that attracts and unites thy soul to God, and draws it
from thyself and all created things. This is a right discovery of divine purity and glory,
that spots even the cleanness of angels, and stains the pride of all glory; much more will
it represent filthiness, as filthiness without a covering. It is knowledge and science, “falsely
so called,” that puffeth up; for true knowledge emptieth a soul of itself, and humbleth a soul
in itself, that it may be full of God. He that thinks he knows any thing, knows nothing as
he ought to know.

This then is the first property or mark of the saving knowledge of God. It removes all grounds
of vain confidence that a soul cannot trust unto itself. And then the very proper intent of
it is, that a soul may trust in God, and depend on him in all things. For this purpose the
Lord hath called himself by so many names in scripture, answerable to our several necessities
and difficulties, that he might make known to us how all-sufficient he is, that so we may turn
our eyes and hearts towards him. This was the intent of this name, I AM, that Moses might have
a support of his faith; for if he had looked to outward appearance, was it not almost a ridiculous
thing, and like a vain fancy, for a poor inconsiderable man to go to a king with such a message,
that he would dismiss so many subjects? And was it not an attempt of some madman to go about
to lead so many thousands from a wicked tyrannical king, into another nation? Well, saith the
Lord, “I am;” I, who give all things a being, will give a being to my promise. I will make
Pharaoh hearken, and the people obey. Well then, what is it that this name of God will not
answer? It is a creating name,—a name that can bring all things out of nothing by a word. If
he be such as he is, then he can make of us what he pleases. If our souls had this name constantly
engraven on our hearts, O what power would divine promises and threatenings have with us! “I,
even I, am he that comforteth thee,” saith he, Isaiah xli. 12. If we believed that it were
he indeed, the Lord Jehovah, how would we be comforted! How would we praise him by his name
JAH! How would we stoop unto him, and submit unto his blessed will! If we believed this, would
we not be as dependent on him as if we had no being in ourselves? Would we not make him our
habitation and dwelling-place; and conclude our own stability, and the stability of his church
from his unvariable eternity? as the Psalmist, Psal. xcix. 1. Psal. cii. ult. How can we think
of such a Fountain-Being, but we must withal acknowledge ourselves to be shadows of his goodness,
and that we owe to him what we are, and so consecrate and dedicate ourselves to his glory!
How can we consider such a Self-Being, Independent, and Creating Goodness, but we must have
some desire to cleave to him, and some confidence to trust in him! Now, this is to know him.

When we think on his unchangeableness, let us consider our own vanity, whose glory and perfection
is like a summer flower, or like a vapour ascending for a little time, whose best estate is
altogether vanity. Our purposes are soon broken off, and made of none effect, our resolutions
change. This is a character of mortality, we are not always alike. Non sibi constare, nec ubique
et semper sibi parem eundemque esse. To be now one thing, and then another thing, is a properly
of sinful and wretched man. Therefore let us “cease from man whose breath is in his nostrils,”
and “trust not in princes” who shall die, far less in ourselves who are less than the least
of men, but let us put our trust in God, “who changeth not,” and we shall not be consumed,—our
waters shall not fail,—we shall never be ashamed of any hope we have in him. There is nothing
else you trust in, but undoubtedly it shall prove your shame and confusion. Whatever you hear
or know of God, know that it is vain and empty, unless it descend down into the heart to fashion
it to his fear and love, and extend unto the outward man to conform it to obedience, you are
but “vain in your imaginations, and your foolish hearts are darkened” while “when you know
God” you glorify him not as God. If that be not the fruit and end of knowledge, that knowledge
shall be worse to thee than ignorance, for it both brings on judicial hardening here, and will
be thy solemn accuser and witness against thee hereafter, Rom. i. 21-24. The knowledge of Jesus
Christ truly so called, is neither barren nor unfruitful for out of its root and sap spring
humility, self-abasing confidence in God, patience in tribulations, meekness in provocations,
temperance and sobriety in lawful things &c. 2 Pet. i. 5-8.

                               Lecture IX.

What God Is To Us.

    Exod. xxxiv. He makes many shows of
departing, that so we may hold him fast, and indeed he is not difficult to
be holden. He threatens often to remove his presence from a person or
nation, and he threatens, that he may not indeed remove, but that they may
entreat him to stay, and he is not hard to be entreated. Who is a God like
unto him, slow to anger, and of great mercy? He is long of being provoked,
and not long provoked, for it is like the anger of a parent’s love. Love
takes on anger as the last remedy, and if it prevail, it is as glad to put
it off as it was unwilling to take it on. You may see a lively picture of
this in God’s dealing with Moses and this people in the preceding chapter.
He had long endured this rebellious and obstinate people,—had often
threatened to cut them off,—and yet, as it were, loath to do it, and
repenting of it, he suffers himself to be entreated for them, but all in
vain to them,—they corrupted their way still more, and in the 32d chapter
fall into gross idolatry, the great trespass that he had given them so
solemn warning of often, whereupon great wrath is conceived. And the Lord
(chap. xxxiii. 2) threatens to depart from them,—Go your way, saith he to
Canaan, but I will not go with you, take your venture of any judgments,
and the people of the land’s cruelty. Here is a sad farewell to Israel,
and who would think he could be detained after all that? Who would think
that he could be entreated? And yet he is not entreated, he is not
requested, before he gives some ground of it, and before he first
condescends; go, saith he, and put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may
know what to do unto thee. Will he then accept a repenting people, and is
there yet hope of mercy? Should he that is going away show us the way to
keep him still? And he that flees from us, will he strengthen us to pursue
and follow after him? This is not after the manner of men, it is true,
whose compassions fail when their passion ariseth, but this is the manner
and method of grace, or of him who waits to be gracious. He flees so as he
would have a follower. Yea, while he seems to go away, he draws the soul
that he might ran after him. Hence is that word, Psal. lxiii. 8, “My soul
followeth hard after thee, thy light hand upholdeth me.” Well, the people
mourn, and put off their ornaments in sign of humiliation and abasement,
but all this doth not pacify and quench the flame that was kindled. Moses
takes the tabernacle out of the camp, the place of judgement where God
spake with the people, and the cloud, the sign of God’s presence, removes.
In a word, the sign of God’s loving and kind presence departs from them,
to signify that they were divorced from God, and, in a manner, the Lord by
Moses excommunicates all the people and rulers both, and draws away these
holy things from the contagion of a profane people. But yet all is not
gone. He goes far off, but not out of sight, that you may always follow
him, and if you follow, he will stand still. He is never without the reach
of crying, though we do not perceive him. Now, in this sad case you may
have a trial who is godly. Every one that seeks the Lord will separate
from the unholy congregation, and follow the tabernacle, and this affects
the whole people much, that they all worship in the tent door.

Now, in the meantime, God admits Moses to speak with him. Though he will not speak to the people,
yet he will speak with their mediator, a typical mediator, to show us that God is well pleased
in Christ, and so all Christ’s intercessions and requests for us will get a hearing. When they
are come once in talking, the business is taken up, for He is not soon angry, and never implacably
angry,—“slow to anger, and keeps it not long.” Moses falling familiar with God, not only obtains
his request for the people, but becomes more bold in a request for his own satisfaction and
confirmation. He could not endure to lead that people unless God went with him, and having
the promise of his going with them he cannot endure distance with him, but aspires to the nearest
communion that may be. Oh! that it were so with us. His great request is, that the Lord will
show him his glory. Had he not seen much of this already and more than any man ever saw, when
he spake in the mount with God, &c.? Nay, but he would see more, for there is always more to
be seen, and there is in a godly soul always more desire to see it. The more is seen, the more
is loved and desired. Tasting of it only begets a kindly appetite after it, and the more tasted,
still the fresher and more recent but yet it is above both desire and fruition,—“Thou canst
not see my face, &c.” All our knowledge of God,—all our attainments of experience of him,—do
but reach to some dark and confused apprehension of what he is. The clearest and nearest sight
of God in this world is, as if a man were not known but by his back, which is a great point
of estrangement. It is said, in heaven we shall see him “face to face,” and fully as he is,
because then the soul is made capable of it.

Two things in us here put us in an incapacity of nearness with God,—infirmity and iniquity.
Infirmity in us cannot behold his glory. It is of so weak eyes, that the brightness of the
sun would strike it blind. And iniquity in us, he cannot behold it, because he is of pure eyes,
that can look on no unclean thing. It is the only thing in the creation that God’s holiness
hath an antipathy at, and therefore he is still about the destroying of the body of sin in
us, about the purging from all filthiness of flesh and spirit, and till the soul be thus purged
of all sin, by the operation of the Holy Ghost, it cannot be a temple for an immediate vision
of him, and an immediate exhibition of God to us. Sin is the will of partition, and the thick
cloud that eclipses his glory from us. It is the opposite hemisphere of darkness, contrary
to light, according to the access or recess of God’s presence, it is more or less dark. The
more sin reigns in thee, the less of God is in thee, and the more sin be subdued, the readier
and nearer is God’s presence. But let us comfort ourselves that one day we shall put off both
infirmity and iniquity, mortality shall put on immortality, and corruption be clothed with
incorruption. We shall leave the rags of mortal weakness in the grave, and our menstruous clothes
of sin behind us, and then shall the weak eyes of flesh be made like eagles’ eyes, to behold
the sun, and then shall the soul be clothed with holiness, as with a garment, which God shall
delight to look upon, because he sees his own image in that glass.

We come to the Lord’s satisfying of Moses’ desire, and proclaiming his name before him. It
is himself only can tell you what he is. It is not ministers preaching, or other discourse,
can proclaim that name to you. We may indeed speak over those words unto you, but it is the
Lord that must write that name upon your heart. He only can discover his glory to your spirit.
There is a spirit of life which cannot be enclosed in letters and syllables, or transmitted
through your ears into your hearts, but he himself must create it inwardly, and stir up the
inward sense and feeling of that name, of those attributes. Faith indeed, “cometh by hearing,”
and our knowledge in this life is “through a glass darkly, through ordinances and senses,”
but there must be an inward teaching and speaking to your souls to make that effectual, “the
anointing teacheth you of all things,” 1 John ii. 27. Alas! it is the separation of that from
the word that makes it so unprofitable. If the Spirit of God were inwardly writing what the
word is teaching then should your souls be “living epistles, that ye might read God’s name
on them.” O! be much in imploring of and depending on him that teacheth to profit, who only
can declare unto your souls what he is!

These names express his essence or being, and his properties, what he is in himself, and what
he is to us. In himself he is Jehovah, or a Self Being, αυτ ον as we heard in the 3d chapter,
“I am that I am”, and EL, a strong God, or Almighty God, which two hold out unto us the absolute
incomprehensible perfection of God, eminently and infinitely enclosing within himself all the
perfections of the creature; the unchangeable and immutable being of God, who was, and is,
and is to come, without succession, without variation, or shadow of turning, and then the almighty
power of God, by which without difficulty by the inclination and beck of his will and pleasure,
he can make or unmake all,—create or annihilate—to whom nothing is impossible. Which three,
if they were pondered by us till our souls received the stamp of them, they would certainly
be powerful to abstract and draw our hearts from the vain changeable, and empty shadow of the
creature, and gather our scattered affections that are parted among them, because of their
insufficiency, that all might unite in one and join with this self sufficient and eternal God.
I say, if a soul did indeed believe and consider how all-sufficient he is, how insufficient
all things else are, would it not cleave to him and draw near to him? Psal. lxxiii. ult. It
is the very torment and vexation of the soul to be thus racked, distracted, and divided about
many things, and therefore many, because there is none of them can supply all our wants. Our
wants are infinite, our desires insatiable and the good that is in any thing is limited and
bounded, it can serve, one but for one use, and another for another use and when all are together
they can but supply some wants but they leave much of the soul empty. But often these outward
things cross one another, and cannot consist together and hence ariseth much strife and debate
in a soul. His need requireth both, and both will not agree. But O that you could see this
one universal good, one for all, and above all, your souls would choose him certainly—your
souls would trust in him! Ye would say, “Asshur shall not save us, we will not ride on horses.”
Creatures shall not satisfy us, we will seek our happiness in thee and nowhere else; since
we have tasted this new wine, away with the old, the new is better. I beseech you, make God
your friend, for he is a great one, whether he be a friend or an enemy, he hath two properties
that make him either most comfortable, or most terrible, according as he is at peace or war
with souls,—eternity, and omnipotency. You were all once enemies to him. O consider what a
party you have, an almighty party, and an unchangeable party! and if you will make peace with
him and that in Christ, then know he is the best friend in the world, because he is unchangeable
and almighty. If he be thy friend, he will do all for thee he can do and thou hast need of.
Many friends willing to do, have not ability, but he hath power to do what he wills and pleases.
Many friends are changeable,—their affections dry up and of themselves die, and therefore even
princes’ friendship is but a vain confidence, for they shall die, and then their thoughts of
favour perish with them, but he abides the same for all generations. There is no end of his
duration and no end of his affection; he can still say, “I am that I am. What I was, I am,
and I will be what I am.” Men cannot say so, they are like the brooks that the companies of
Teman looked after, and thought to have found them in summer as they left them in winter, but
behold they were dried up, and the companies ashamed. God cannot make thee ashamed of thy hope,
because he is faithful and able. Ability and fidelity is a sure anchor to hold by in all storms
and tempests.

Such is God in himself. Now, there are two manner of ways he vents himself towards the creatures,—in
a comfortable way, or in a terrible way. This glorious perfection and almighty power hath an
issue upon sinners, and it runs in a twofold channel, of mercy or justice, of mercy towards
miserable sinners that find themselves lost, and flee unto him and take hold of his strength,
and justice towards all those that flatter themselves in their own eyes, and continue in their
sins and put the evil day far off. There is no mercy for such as fear not justice, and there
is no justice for such as flee from it unto mercy. The Lord exhibits himself in a twofold appearance,
according to the condition of sinners. He sits on a throne and tribunal of grace and mercy,
to make access to the vilest sinner who is afraid of his wrath and would fain be at peace with
him, and he sits on a throne of justice and wrath, to seclude and debar presumptuous sinners
from holiness. There were two mountains under the law,—one of cursings, and another of blessings.
These are the mountains God sets his throne upon, and from these he speaks and sentences mankind.
From the mountain of cursings, he hath pronounced a curse and condemnatory sentence upon all
flesh, “for all have sinned.” Therefore he concludes all under sin that all flesh might stop
their mouth, and the whole world become guilty before God. Now, the Lord having thus condemned
all mankind because of disobedience, he sits again upon the mountain of blessings, and pronounces
a sentence of absolution, of as many as have taken with the sentence of condemnation, and appealed
to his grace and mercy, and those which do not so, the sentence of condemnation stands above
their heads unrepealed. He erects his tribunal of justice in the world for this end, that all
flesh might once be convicted before him, and therefore he cites, as it were, and summons all
men to present themselves and appear before his tribunal, to be judged. He lays out an accusation
in the word against them. He takes their consciences witness of the truth of all that is charged
on them, and then pronounces that sentence in their conscience, “Cursed is he that abideth
not in all things,” which the conscience subsumes, and concludes itself accursed, and subscribes
to the equity of the sentence. And thus man is guilty before God, and his mouth stopped. He
hath no excuses, no pretences, he can see no way to escape from justice, and God is justified,
by this means, in his speaking and judging. Psal. li. 4. The soul ratifies and confirms the
truth and justice of all his threatenings and judgements, Rom. iii. 4. Now, for such souls
as join with God in judging and condemning themselves, the Lord hath erected a throne of grace
and tribunal of mercy in the word, whereupon he hath set his Son Jesus Christ, Psal. ii. 6,
lxxxix. 14, xlv. 6, Heb. i. 8. And O! this throne is a comfortable throne. Mercy and truth
go before the face of the king to welcome and entertain miserable sinners, and to make access
to them. And from this throne Jesus Christ holds out the sceptre of the gospel, to invite sinners,
self-condemned sinners, to come to him alone, who hath gotten all final judgment committed
to him, that he may give eternal life “to whom he will,” John v. 21, 22. O! that is a sweet
and ample commission given to our friend and brother, Jesus Christ,—power to repeal sentences
passed against us,—power and authority to absolve them whom justice hath condemned, and to
bless whom the law hath cursed, and to open their mouth to praise whose mouth sin and guiltiness
hath stopped,—power to give the answer of a good conscience to thy evil self-tormenting conscience!
In a word, he hath power to give life, to make alive and heal those who are killed or wounded
by the commandment. Now, I say, seeing God hath of purpose established this throne of mercy
in the word, thou mayest well, after receiving and acknowledging of the justice of the curse
of the law, appeal to divine mercy and grace sitting on another throne of the gospel. Thou
mayest—if thy conscience urge thee to despair, and to conclude there is no hope—thou mayest,
I say, appeal from thy conscience, from Satan, from justice, unto Jesus Christ, who is holding
out the sceptre to thee. The minister calls thee, rise and come, stand no longer before that
bar, for it is a subordinate judicatory, there is a way to redress thee by a higher court of
grace. Thou mayest say to justice, to Satan, to thy own conscience,—“It is true, I confess,
that I deserve that sentence, I am guilty, and can say nothing against it, while I stand alone.
But though I cannot satisfy, and have not; yet there is one, Jesus Christ, who gave his life
a ransom for many, and whom God hath given as a propitiation for sins. He hath satisfied and
paid the debt in my name; go and apprehend the cautioner, since he hath undertaken it, nay,
he hath done it, and is absolved. Thou hadst him in thy hands O Justice! Thou hadst him prisoner
under the power of death. Since thou hast let him go, then he is acquitted from all the charge
of my sins; and therefore, since I know that he is now a king, and hath a throne to judge the
world and plead the cause of the poor sheep, I will appeal to him, refer the cause to his decision,
I will make my supplication to him, and certainly he will hear, and interpose himself between
wrath and me. He will rescind this sentence of condemnation, since he himself was condemned
for us and is justified,—‘It is Christ that died, yea rather that is risen again,’ who shall
condemn me? He is near that justifies me, Rom. viii. 33, 34.” Now if thou do indeed flee unto
him for refuge, that city is open for thee, and nothing to prejudge thy entry. But no curse,
no condemnation can enter in it, Rom. viii. 1. He will justify and absolve thee from all things
whereof the law could not justify thee, but condemn thee. There is forgiveness with him, that
he may be feared. David may teach thee this manner of application, (Psal. cxxx. and cxlii.
2) of appealing from the deserved curse, to free undeserved blessing and mercy in Christ.

Let us consider this name of the Lord, and it shall answer all our suspicions of him,—all our
objections against coming to him and believing in him. It is certain, ignorance is the mother
of unbelief, together with the natural perverseness of our hearts. If we knew his name, we
would trust in him; if his names were pondered and considered, we would believe in him. Satan
knows this, and therefore his great sleight and cunning is to hold our minds fixed on the consideration
of our misery and desperate estate. He keeps the awakened conscience still upon that comfortless
sight, and he labours to represent God by halves, and that it is a false representation of
God. He represents him as clothed with justice and vengeance,—as a consuming fire, in which
light a soul can see nothing but desperation written; and he labours to hold out the thoughts
of his mercy and grace, or diverts a soul from the consideration of his promises; whence it
comes, that they are not established, that though salvation be near, yet it is far from them
in their sense and apprehension. Therefore I say, you should labour to get an entire sight
of God, and you shall see him best in his word, where he reveals himself, and there you find,
if you consider, that which may make you fear him indeed, but never flee from him,—that which
may abase you, but withal embolden you to come to him though trembling. Whatever thought possess
thee of thine own misery, of thy own guiltiness, labour to counterpoise that with the thought
of his mercy and free promises. Whatever be suggested of his holiness and justice, hear himself
speak out his own name, and thou shall hear as much of mercy and grace as may make these not
terrible unto thee, though high and honourable. The Lord hath so framed the expression and
proclamation of his name in this place, that first a word of majesty and power is premised,—“the
Lord, the Lord God,”—that it may compose our hearts in fear and reverence of such a glorious
one, and make a preparatory impression of the majesty of our God, which indeed is the foundation
or all true faith. It begins to adore and admire a deity, a majesty hid from the world. The
thoughts of his power and glory possess the soul first, and make it begin to tremble to think
that it hath such a high and holy one to deal with.

But, in the next place, you have the most sweet, alluring, comforting styles that can be imagined,
to meet with the trembling and languishing condition of a soul that would be ready to faint
before such a majesty. Here Mercy takes it by the hand, and gives a cordial of grace, pardon,
forgiveness, &c. to it, which revives the soul of the humble, and intermingles some rejoicing
with former trembling. Majesty and greatness go before to abase and humble the soul in its
own eyes; and mercy and goodness second them to lift up those who are low and exalt the humble.
And in the description of this, the Lord spends more words, according to the necessity of a
soul, to signify to us how great and strong consolation may be grounded on his name,—how accessible
he is, though he dwell in accessible light,—how lovely he is, though he be the high and the
lofty one,—how good he is, though he be great,—how merciful he is, though he be majestic. In
a word, that those that flee to him may have all invitation, all encouragement to come, and
nothing to discourage, to prejudge their welcome; that whoever will, may come, and nothing
may hinder on his part. And then, after all this, he subjoins a word of his justice, in avenging
sin, to show us that he leaves that as the last; that he essays all gaining ways of mercy with
us; and that he is not very much delighted with the death of sinners, that so whosoever perishes
may blame themselves for hating their own salvation and forsaking their own mercy.

Now whoever thou art that apprehendest a dreadful and terrible God, and thyself a miserable
and wretched sinner, thou canst find no comfort in God’s highness and power, but it looks terrible
upon thee, because thou doubtest of his good-will to save and pardon thee. Thou sayest with
the blind man, If thou wilt, thou canst do it; thou art a strong God, but what comfort can
I have in thy strength, since I know not thy good-will? I say, the Lord answers thee in this
name, I am “merciful,” saith the Lord. If thou be miserable, I am merciful as well as strong;
if thou have sin and misery, I have compassion and pity. My mercy may be a copy and pattern
to all men to learn it of me, even towards their own brethren, Luke vi. 36. Therefore he is
called “the father of mercies,” 2 Cor. i. 3. Misericors est cui alterius miseria cordi est.
Mercy hath its very name from misery, for it is no other thing than to lay another’s misery
to heart; not to despise it, not to add to it, but to help it. It is a strong inclination to
succour the misery of sinners, therefore thou needest no other thing to commend thee to him.
Art thou miserable, and knowest it indeed? Then he is merciful; and know that also, these two
suit well.

Nay, but saith the convinced soul, I know not if he will be merciful to me, for what am I?
There is nothing in me to be regarded. I have nothing to conciliate favour, and all that may
procure hatred. But, saith the Lord, I am “gracious,” and dispense mercy freely, without respect
to condition or qualification. Say not, if I had such a measure of humiliation as such a one,—if
I loved him so much,—if I had so much godly sorrow and repentance,—then, I think he would be
merciful to me. Say not so, for behold he is gracious. He hath mercy on whom he will have mercy;
and there is no other cause, no motive to procure it; it comes from within his own breast.
It is not thy repentance will make him love thee, nor thy hardness of heart will make him hate
thee or obstruct the vent of his grace towards thee. No! if it be grace, it is no more of works,—not
works in that way that thou imaginest. It is not of repentance, not of faith in that sense
thou conceivest; but it is freely, without the hire, without the price of repentance or faith,
because all those are but the free gifts of grace. Thou wouldst have these graces to procure
his favour, and to make them the ground of thy believing in his promises, but grace is without
money. It immediately contracts with discovered misery, so that if thou do discover in thyself
misery and sin, though thou find nothing else, yet do not cast away confidence, but so much
the more address thyself to mercy and grace, which do not seek repentance in thee, but bring
repentance and faith with them unto thee. Yet there is something in the awakened conscience.
I have gone on long in sin; I have been a presumptuous sinner; can he endure me longer? Well,
hear what the Lord saith, I am “long-suffering” and patient. And if he had not been so, we
had been damned ere now. Patience hath a long term, and we cannot outrun it, outweary it. Why
do we not wonder that he presently and instantly executed his wrath on angels, and gave them
not one hour’s space for repentance, but cast them down headlong into destruction, as in a
moment; and yet his majesty hath so long delayed the execution of our sentence, and calls us
unto repentance and forgiveness, that we may escape the condemnation of angels? His patience
is not slackness and negligence, as men count it, 2 Pet. iii. 9. He sits not in heaven as an
idol, and idle spectator of what men are doing; but he observes all wrongs, and is sensible
of them also. And if we were mindful and sensible of them also, he would forget them. He is
long-suffering. This is extended and stretched-out patience beyond all expectation, beyond
all deserving, yea contrary to it. Therefore, as long as he forbears, if thou apprehend thy
misery and sin, and continuance in it; do not conclude that it is desperate. “Why should a
living man complain?” As long as patience lengthens thy life, if thou desire to come to him,
believe he will accept thee.

But, saith the doubting soul, I am exceeding perverse and wicked, there is nothing in me but
wickedness. It so abounds in me that there is none like me. But, saith the Lord, I am “abundant
in goodness.” Thy wickedness though it be great, it is but a created wickedness, but my goodness
is the goodness of God. I am as abundant in grace and goodness as thou art in sin—nay, infinitely
more. Thy sin is but the transgression of a finite creature, but my mercy is the compassion
of an infinite God,—it can swallow it up. Suppose thy sin cry up to heaven, yet mercy reaches
above heaven, and is built up for ever. Here is an invitation to all sinners to come and taste—O
come and taste, and see how good the Lord is! Goodness is communicative; it diffuses itself,
like the sun’s light. There is riches of his goodness. Rom. ii. 4. Poor soul, thou canst not
spend it though thou have many wants!

But I am full of doubtings, fears, and jealousies. I cannot believe in his promises. I often
question them. How, then, will he perform them? I say, saith the Lord, I am abundant in truth.
He will certainly perform. Shall our unbelief, or doubting, “make the faith of God without
effect?” &c. Rom. iii. 3. God forbid! His faithfulness reaches unto the clouds; he will keep
covenant with thee whose soul hath chosen him, though thou often question and doubt of him.
Indeed, thou shouldst not give indulgence to thy doubtings and jealousies, but look on them
as high provocations. For what can be more grievous to fervent love than to meet with jealousy?
Jealousy would quench any creature’s love, but though it grieve and provoke him, yet he will
not change, he will not diminish his. Only do not think your disputings and quarrelling innocent
and harmless things. No certainly, they grieve the Spirit—stir up the beloved to go away, as
it were, before he please—and make thee walk without comfort, and without fruit. Yet he will
bear with, and not quench “the smoking flax” of a believer’s desires, though they do not arise
to the flame of assurance.

But the wounded spirit hath one or two burdens more. I have abused much mercy; how can mercy
pity me? I have turned grace into wantonness so that when I look to mercy and grace to comfort
me, they do rather challenge me. The sins of none are like mine,—none of such a heinous and
presumptuous nature. But let us hear what God the Lord speaks. I keep “mercy for thousands,
forgiving iniquity, and transgression, and sin. Thou hast wasted much mercy, but more is behind,
all the treasure is not spent. Though there were many thousand worlds besides, I could pardon
them all, if they would flee unto my mercy. Thou shalt not be straitened in me.” Mercy will
pardon thy abuse of mercy, it will forgive all faults thou dost against itself. Thou that sinnest
against the Son of man, the Redeemer of the world, and remedy of sin—yet there is pardon for
thee, whatever the quality, condition, or circumstance of thy sin be. Whoever, convinced of
it, and loadened with it, desirest rest to thy soul, thou mayest find it in Christ, whose former
kindness thou hast answered with contempt. Many sins, many great sins, and these presumptuous
sins cannot exclude, nay, no sin can exclude a willing soul. Unbelief keeps thee unwilling,
and so excludes thee.

Now, as the spider sucks poison out of the sweetest flower, so the most part of souls suck
nothing but delusion and presumption and hardening out of the gospel. Many souls reason for
more liberty to sin from mercy. But behold, how the Lord backs it with a dreadful word, “who
will by no means clear the guilty.” As many as do not condemn themselves before the tribunal
of justice, there is no rescinding of the condemnatory sentence, but it stands above their
heads, “he that believeth not is condemned already.” Justice hath condemned all by a sentence.
He that doth not, in the sense of this, flee unto Jesus Christ from sin and wrath is already
condemned. His sentence is standing. There needs no new one. Since he flees not to mercy for
absolution, the sentence of condemnation stands unrepealed. You guilty souls who clear yourselves,
God will not clear you. And, alas! how many of you do clear yourselves! Do you not extenuate
and mince your sins? How hard is it to extort any confession of guilt out of you, but in the
general! If we condescend to particulars, many of you will plead innocency almost in every
thing, though you have, like children, learned to speak these words that ye are sinners. I
beseech you consider it; it is no light matter, for God will by no means clear the guilty,
by no means, by no entreaties, no flatteries. What! will he not pardon sin? Yes indeed! his
name tells you he will pardon all kind of sins, and absolve all manner of guilty persons, but
yet such as do condemn themselves, such as are guilty in their own conscience, and their mouths
stopped before God,—you who do not enter into the serious examination of your ways, and do
not arraign yourselves before God’s tribunal daily till you find yourselves loathsome and desperate,
and no refuge for you,—you who do flatter yourselves always in the hope of heaven, and put
the fear of hell always from you,—I say, God will by no means, no prayers, no entreaties, clear
or pardon you, because you come not to Jesus Christ, in whom is preached forgiveness and remission
of sins. You who take liberty to sin, because God is gracious, and delay repentance till the
end, because God is long suffering,—know God will not clear you, he is holy and just as he
is merciful. If his mercy make thee not fear and tremble before him, and do not separate thee
from thy sins,—if remission of sins be not the strongest persuasion to thy soul of the removing
of sin,—certainly thou dost in vain presume upon his mercy.

Now consider what influence all this glorious proclamation had on Moses. It stirs up in him
reverence and affection,—reverence to such a glorious Majesty, and great desire to have him
amongst them, and to be more one with him. If thy soul rightly discover God, it cannot but
abase thee. He “made haste” to bow down and worship. O, God’s majesty is a surprising and astonishing
thing! It would bow thy soul in the dust if it were presented to thee. Labour to keep the right
and entire representation of God in thy sight,—his whole name, strong, merciful, and just,—great,
good, and holy. I say, keep both in thy view, for half representations are dangerous, either
to beget presumption and security when thou lookest on mercy alone, or despair when thou lookest
on justice and power alone. Let thy soul consider all jointly, that it may receive a mixed
impression of all. And this is the holy composition and temper of a believer,—Rejoice with
trembling, love with fear, let all thy discoveries of him aim at more union and communion with
him who is such a self sufficient, all sufficient, and eternal Being.

                                Lecture X.

What God Is

    John iv. “God is a Spirit,” that is his nature,
and “man must worship him,” that is his duty, and that “in spirit and in
truth,” that is the right manner of the duty. If these three were well
pondered till they did sink into the bottom of our spirits, they would
make us indeed Christians, not in the letter, but in the spirit. That is
presupposed to all Christian worship and walking, to know what God is, it
is indeed the primo cognitum of Christianity, the first principle of
true religion, the very root out of which springs and grows up walking
suitably with, and worshipping answerably of, a known God. I fear much of
our religion is like the Athenians, they built an altar to the unknown
God, and like the Samaritans, who worshipped they knew not what. Such a
worship, I know not what it is, when the God worshipped is not known. The
two parents of true religion are the knowledge of God and of ourselves.
This, indeed, is the beginning of the fear of God, which the wise preacher
calls “the beginning of true wisdom.” And these two, as they beget true
religion, so they cannot truly be one without the other. It is not many
notions and speculations about the divine nature,—it is not high and
strained conceptions of God,—that comprise the true knowledge of him. Many
think they know something when they can speak of those mysteries in some
singular way, and in some terms removed from common understandings, while
neither themselves nor others know what they mean. And thus they are
presumptuous, self conceited, knowing nothing as they ought to know. There
is a knowledge that puffs up and there is a knowledge that casts down, a
knowledge in many that doth but swell them, not grow them. It is but a
rumour full of wind, a vain and empty, frothy knowledge that is neither
good for edifying other, nor saving a man’s self, a knowledge that a man
knows and reflects upon so as to ascend upon the height of it, and measure
himself by the degrees of it. This is not the true knowledge of God, which
knows not itself, looks not back upon itself, but straight towards God,
his holiness and glory and our baseness and misery, and therefore it
constrains the soul to be ashamed of itself in such a glorious presence,
and to make haste to worship, as Moses, Job, and Isaiah did.

This definition of God—if we did truly understand it, we could not but worship him in another
manner. “God is a Spirit.” Many ignorant people form in their own mind some likeness and image
of God, who is invisible. Ye know how ye fancy to yourselves some bodily shape. When you conceive
of him, you think he is some reverend and majestic person sitting on a throne in heaven. But,
I beseech you, correct your mistakes of him. There is outward idolatry and there is inward,
there is idolatry in action, when men paint or engrave some similitude of God, and there is
idolatry in imagination, when the fancy and apprehension run upon some image or likeness of
God. The first is among Papists, but I fear the latter is too common among us, and it is indeed
all one, to form such a similitude in our mind and to engrave or paint it without. So that
the God whom many of us worship is not the living and true God, but a painted or graven idol.
When God appeared most visible to the world, as at the giving out of the law, yet no man did
see any likeness at all. He did not come under the perception of the most subtle sense, he
could not be perceived but by the refined understanding going aside from all things visible.
And therefore you do but fancy an idol to yourselves, instead of God, when you apprehend him
under the likeness of any visible or sensible thing, and so whatever love or fear or reverence
you have, it is all but misspent superstition, the love and fear of an idol.

I. Know then, “that God is a Spirit,” and therefore he is like none of all those things you
see, or hear, or smell, or taste, or touch. The heavens are glorious indeed, the light is full
of glory, but he is not like that. If all your senses should make an inquiry, and search for
him throughout the world, you should not find him. Though he be near at hand to every one of
us yet our eyes and ears and all our senses, might travel the length of the earth and breadth
of the sea, and should not find him even as you might search all the corners of heaven ere
you could hear or see an angel. If you would saw a man asunder and resolve him into atoms of
dust, yet you could not perceive a soul within him. Why? Because these are spirits, and so
without the reach of your senses.

II. If God be a Spirit, then he is invisible, and dwells in light inaccessible, “which no man
hath seen or can see.” Then our poor narrow minds, that are drowned, as it were, and immersed
in bodies of clay, and in this state of mortality, receive all knowledge by the senses, cannot
frame any notion of his spiritual and abstracted nature. We cannot conceive what our own soul
is, but by some sensible operation flowing from it, and the height that our knowledge of that
noble part of ourselves amounts to, is but this dark and confused conception that the soul
is some inward principle of life and sense and reason. How then is it possible for us to conceive
aright of the divine nature, as it is in itself, but only in a dark and general way? We guess
at his majesty, by the glorious emanations of his power and wisdom, and the ways thereof, which
he displays abroad in all the work of his hands, and from all these concurring testimonies,
and evidences of his majesty, we gather this confused notion of him, that he is the fountain,
self independent Being, the original of these things, and more absolute in the world than the
soul is in the body, the true Anima mundi, the very life and the light of men, and the soul
that quickens, moves, and forms all this visible world, that makes all things visible, and
himself is invisible. Therefore it is that the Lord speaks to us in Scripture of himself, according
to our capacities,—of his face, his right hand, and arm, his throne, his sceptre, his back
parts his anger, his fury, his repentance, his grief, and sorrow,—none of which are properly
in his spiritual, immortal, and unchangeable nature. But because our dulness and slowness is
such in apprehending things spiritual, it being almost without the sphere and comprehension
of the soul while in the body, which is almost addicted unto the senses in the body, therefore
the Lord accommodates himself unto our terms and notions, balbutit nobiscum,—he, like a kind
father, stammers with his stammering children, speaks to them in their own dialect, but withal,
would have us conceive he is not really such an one, but infinitely removed in his own being
from all these imperfections. So when you hear of these terms in scripture, O beware of conceiving
God to be such a one as yourselves! But, in these expressions not beseeming his Majesty, because
below him, learn your own ignorance of his glorious Majesty, your dulness and incapacity to
be such as the holy One must come down as it were in some bodily appearance, ere you can understand
any thing of him.

III. If God be a Spirit, then he is most perfect and most powerful. All imperfection, all infirmity,
and weakness in the creature, is founded in the gross and material part of it. You see the
more matter and bodily substance is in any thing, it is the more lumpish, heavy, and void of
all action. It is the more spiritual, pure, and refined part of the creation that hath most
activity in it, and is the principle of all motions and actions. You see a little fly hath
more action in it than a great mountain, because there are spirits in it which move it. The
bottom of the world contains the dregs of the creation, as it were,—a mass and lump of heavy
earth, but the higher and more distant bodies be from that, the more pure and subtile they
are, and the more pure and subtile they be, the more action, virtue, and efficacy they have.
The earth stands like a dead lump but the sea moves, and the air being thinner and purer than
both, moves more easily and swiftly. But go up higher and still the motion is swifter, and
the virtue and influence is the more powerful. What is a dead body when the soul and spirit
is out of it? It hath no more virtue and efficacy than so much clay, although by the presence
of the spirit of it, it was active, agile, swift, strong and nimble. So much then as any thing
hath of spirit in it, so much the more perfect and powerful it is. Then I beseech you consider
what a One the God of the spirits of all flesh must be,—the very Fountain spirit,—the Self
being spirit,—αυτο πνευμα. When the soul of a man, or the spirit of a horse, hath so much virtue,
to stir up a lump of earth, and to quicken it to so many diverse operations, even though that
soul and spirit did not, nay could not make that piece of earth they dwell in, then, what must
his power and virtue be that made all those things? Who gave power and virtue even to the spirits
of all flesh? “Their horses” saith God, are “flesh and not spirit,” (Isa. xxxi. 3) because,
in comparison of his majesty, the very spirits in them are but like a dead lump of flesh. If
he should draw in his breath, as it were, they would have no more virtue to save the Israelites,
than so many lumps of flesh or clay. For he is the Spirit of all spirits, that quickens, actuates
and moves them to their several operations and influences. Anima mundi, et Anima animarum mundi.
An angel hath more power than all men united in one body. Satan is called the prince of the
air, and the god of this world, for he hath more efficacy and virtue to commove the air, and
raise tempests than all the swarms of multiplied mankind, though gathered into one army. If
the Lord did not restrain and limit his power, he were able to destroy whole nations at once.
An angel killed many thousands of Sennacherib’s army in one night, what would many angels do
then, if the Lord pleased to apply them to that work? O what is man that he should magnify
himself, or glory in strength, or skill? Beasts are stronger than men, but man’s weaker strength
being strengthened with more skill, proves stronger than they. But in respect of angels he
hath neither strength nor wisdom.

IV. If God be a Spirit, then he is not circumscribed by any place, and if an infinite Spirit,
then he is everywhere, no place can include him, and no body can exclude him. He is within
all things, yet not included nor bounded within them, and he is without all things, yet not
excluded from them. Intra omnia, non tamen inclusus in illis, extra omnia, nec tamen exclustts
ab illis. You know every body hath its own bounds and limits circumscribed to it, and shuts
out all other bodily things out of the same space, so that before the least body want some
space, it will put all the universe in motion, and make every thing about it to change its
place, and possess another. But a spirit can pass through all of them and never disturb them,
a legion may be in one man, and have room enough. If there were a wall of brass or tower, having
no opening, neither above nor beneath, no body could enter but by breaking through, and making
a breach into it, but an angel or spirit could storm it without a breach, and pierce through
it without any division of it. How much more doth the Maker of all spirits fill all in all!
The thickness of the earth doth not keep him out, nor the largeness of the heavens contain
him. How then do we circumscribe and limit him within the bounds of a public house, or the
heavens? O! how narrow thoughts have we of his immense greatness, who, without division or
multiplication of himself, fills all the corners of the world,—whose indivisible unity is equivalent
to an infinite extension and divisibility! How often, I pray you, do you reflect upon this?
God is near to every one of us. Who of us thinks of a divine Majesty nearer us than our very
souls and consciences, “in whom we live and move, and have our being”? How is it we move, and
think not with wonder of that first Mover in whom we move? How is it we live and persevere
in being and do not always consider this fountain-Being in whom we live and have our being?
O, the atheism of many souls professing God! We do speak, walk, eat, and drink, and go about
all our businesses, as if we were self being, and independent of any, never thinking of that
all present quickening Spirit, that acts us, moves us, speaks in us, makes us to walk and eat
and drink, as the barbarous people who see, hear, speak and reason, and never once reflect
upon the principle of all these, to discern a soul within. This is brutish, and in this, man
who was made of a straight countenance to look upward to God, and to know himself and his Maker,
till he might be differenced from all creatures below, is degenerated, and become like the
beasts that perish. Who of us believes this all present God? We imagine that he is shut up
in heaven, and takes no such notice of affairs below, but certainly, he is not so far from
us, though he show more of his glory above, yet he is as present and observant below.

V. If he be a Spirit, then as he is incomprehensible and immense in being, so also there is
no comprehension of his knowledge. The nearer any creature comes to the nature of a spirit,
the more knowing and understanding it is. Life is the most excellent being, and understanding
is the most excellent life. Materia est iners et mortua. The nearer any thing is to the earthly
matter, as it hath less action, so less life and feeling. Man is nearer an angel than beasts,
and therefore he hath a knowing understanding spirit in him. There is a spirit in man, and
the more or less this spirit of man is abstracted from sensual and material things, it lives
the more excellent and pure life, and is, as it were, more or less delivered from the chains
of the body. These souls that have never risen above, and retired from sensible things, O,
how narrow are they,—how captivated within the prison of the flesh! But when the Lord Jesus
comes to set free he delivers a soul from this bondage, he makes these chains fall off and
leads the soul apart to converse with God himself, and to meditate on things not seen—sin,
wrath, hell, and heaven. And the farther it goes from itself, and the more abstracted it is
from the consideration of present things, the more it lives a life like angels. And therefore,
when the soul is separated from the body, it is then perfectly free, and hath the largest extent
of knowledge. A man’s soul must be almost like Paul’s “whether out of the body, or in the body,
I know not,”—if he would understand aright spiritual things. Now then, this infinite Spirit
is an all knowing Spirit, all seeing Spirit, as well as all-present, “there is no searching
of his understanding,” Isa. xl. 28, Psalm. cxlvii. 5. “Who hath directed the Spirit of the
Lord, or being his counsellor, hath taught him?” Isa. xl. 13, Rom. xi. 34. He calls the generations
from the beginning, and known to him are all his works from the beginning. O that you would
always set this God before you, or rather set yourselves always in his presence, in whose sight
you are always! How would it compose our hearts to reverence and fear in all our actions, if
we did indeed believe that the Judge of all the world is an eye witness to our most retired
and secret thoughts and doings! If any man were as privy to thy thoughts, as thy own spirit
and conscience, thou wouldst blush and be ashamed before him. If every one of us could open
a window into one another’s spirits, I think this assembly should dismiss as quickly as that
of Christ’s, when he bade them that were without sin cast a stone at the woman. We could not
look one upon another. O then, why are we so little apprehensive of the all-searching eye of
God, who can even declare to us our thought, before it be? How much atheism is rooted in the
heart of the most holy! We do not always meditate, with David, Psal. cxxxix., on that all searching
and all knowing Spirit who knows our down sitting and uprising, and understands our thoughts
afar off, and who is acquainted with all our ways. O how would we ponder our path, and examine
our words, and consider our thoughts beforehand if we set ourselves in the view of such a Spirit,
that is within us and without us, before us and behind us! He may spare sinners as long as
he pleases, for there is no escaping from him. You cannot go out of his dominions, nay, you
cannot run out of his presence, Psal. cxxxix. 7-10. He can reach you when he pleases, therefore
he may delay as long as he pleases.

                               Lecture XI.

The Knowledge That God Is, Combined With The Knowledge That He Is To Be Worshipped.

    John iv. According as the
apprehension of God is clear, and distinct, and more deeply engraven on
the soul, so is this notion of man’s duty of worshipping God clear and
imprinted on the soul, and whenever the actions of men do prove that the
conception of the worship of God is obliterate or worn out,—whenever their
transgressions do witness that a man hath not a lively notion of this duty
of God’s worship,—that doth also prove that the very notion of a godhead
is worn out, and cancelled in the soul, for how could souls conceive of
God as he is indeed, but they must needs, with Moses, (Exod. xxxiv. 8)
make haste to pray and worship? It is the principle of the very law of
nature which shall make the whole world inexcusable, “because that when
they knew God, they glorified him not as God.” A father must have honour,
and a master must have fear, and God, who is the common parent and
absolute master of all, must have worship, in which reverence and fear,
mixed with rejoicing and affection, predominate. It is supposed, and put
beyond all question that he must be; “he that worships him, must worship
him in spirit and in truth.” It is not simply said, God is a Spirit and
must be worshipped, no, for none can doubt of it. If God be, then
certainly worship is due to him, for who is so worshipful? And because it
is so beyond all question, therefore woe to the irreligious world that
never puts it in practice! O, what excuse can you have, who have not so
much as a form of godliness! Do you not know, that it is beyond all
controversy that God must be worshipped? Why then do you deny that in your
practice, which all men must confess in their conscience? Is not he God,
the Lord, a living and self being Spirit? Then must he not have
worshippers? Beasts are not created for it, it is you, O sons of men! whom
he made for his own praise, and it is not more suitable to your nature
than it is honourable and glorious. This is the great dignity and
excellency you are privileged with, beyond the brute beasts,—to have
spirits within you capable of knowing and acknowledging the God of your
spirits. Why then do you both rob and spoil God of his glory, and cast
away your own excellency? Why do you love to trample on your ornaments and
wallow in the puddle; like beasts void of religion, but so much worse than
beasts, that you ought to be better, and were created for a more noble
design? O base spirited wretches, who hang down your souls to this earth,
and follow the dictates of your own sense and lust, and have not so much
as an external form of worshipping God! How far are you come short of the
noble design of your creation, and the high end of your immortal souls! If
you will not worship God, know, he will have worshippers. Certainly he
will not want it; because he hath designed so many souls to stand before
him, and worship him, and that number will not fail. He might indeed have
wanted worshippers: for what advantage is it to him? But in this he
declares his love and respect to man, that he will not want honour and
service from him. It is rather to put honour upon him, and to make him
blessed and happy, than for any gain that can amount to himself by it. For
this is indeed the true honour and happiness of man, not to be worshipped
and served of other fellow-creatures, but to worship and serve the
Creator. This is the highest advancement of a soul, to lie low before him,
and to obey him, and have our service accepted of his Majesty. I beseech
you, strive about this noble service! Since he must have worshippers, O
say within your souls, “I must be one! If he had but one, I could not be
content if I were not that one.” Since the Father is seeking worshippers,
(ver. 23,) O let him find thee! Offer thyself to him, saying, Lord, here
am I. Should he seek you, who can have no advantage from you? Should he go
about so earnest a search for true worshippers, who can have no profit by
them? And why do ye not seek him, since to you all the gain and profit
redounds? Shall he seek you to make you happy? And why do ye not seek him
and happiness in him? It is your own service, I may truly say, and not his
so much; for in serving him thou dost rather serve thyself; for all the
benefit redounds to thyself, though thou must not intend such an end, to
serve him for thyself, but for his name’s sake; else thou shalt neither
honour him, nor advantage thyself. I pray you let him not seek in vain,
for in these afflictions he is seeking worshippers; and if he find you,
you are found and saved indeed. Do not then forsake your own mercy, to run
from him who follows you with salvation.

As none can be ignorant that God is, and must be worshipped, so it is unknown to the world
in what manner he must be worshipped. The most part of men have some form in worshipping God,
and please themselves in it so well that they think God is well pleased with it; but few there
are who know indeed what it is to worship him in a manner acceptable to his Majesty. Now you
know it is all one not to worship him at all, as not to worship him in that way he likes to
be worshipped. Therefore, the most part of men are but self-worshippers, because they please
none but themselves in it. It is not the worship his soul hath chosen, but their own invention;
for you must take this as an undeniable ground, that God must be worshipped according to his
own will and pleasure, and not according to your humour or intention. Therefore, his soul abhors
will-worship, devised by men out of ignorant zeal or superstition, though there might seem
much devotion in it, and much affection to God. As in the Israelites sacrificing their children,
what more seeming self-denial,—and yet what more real self-idolatry? God owns not such a service,
for it is not service and obedience to his will and pleasure, but to men’s own will and humour.
Therefore, a man must not look for a reward but from himself. Now, it is not only will-worship,
when the matter and substance of the worship is not commanded of God, but also when a commanded
worship is not discharged in the appointed manner. Therefore, O how few true worshippers will
the Father find! True worship must have truth for the substance, and spirit for the manner
of it; else it is not such a worship as the Father seeks and will be pleased with. Divine worship
must have truth in it,—that is plain,—but what was that truth? It must be conformed to the
rule and pattern of worship, which is God’s will and pleasure revealed in the word of truth.
True worship is the very practice of the word of truth. It carries the image and superscription
and command upon it, which is a necessary ingredient in it, and constituent of it. Therefore,
if thy service have the image of thy own will stamped on it, it is not divine worship but will-worship.
Thus all human ceremonies and ordinances enjoined for the service of God, carry the inscription
not of God, but of man, who is the author and original of them, and so are but adulterated
and false coin that will not pass current with God. I fear there be many rites and vain customs
among ignorant people, in which they place some religion, which have no ground in the word
of God, but are only “old wives’ fables” and traditions. How many things of that nature are
used upon a religious account, in which God hath placed no religion! Many have a superstitious
conceit of the public place of worship, as if there were more holiness in it than in any other
house; and so they think their prayers in the church are more acceptable than in their chamber.
But Christ refutes that superstitious opinion of places, and so consequently of days, meats,
and all such external things. The Jews had a great opinion of their temple, the Samaritans
of their mountain,—as if these places had sanctified their services. But saith our Lord, (ver.
21,) “The hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem, worship
the Father,” but it is any where acceptable, if so be ye worship in spirit and truth. Many
of you account it religion to pray and mutter words of your own in the time of public prayer;
but who hath required this at your hands? If ye would pray yourselves, go apart; shut the door
behind thee, saith Christ. Private prayer should be in private and secret; but where public
prayer is, your hearts should close with the petitions, and offer them up jointly to God. It
is certainly a great sleight of that deceitful destroyer, the devil, to possess your minds
with an opinion of religion in such vain babblings, that he may withdraw both your ears and
your hearts from the public worship of God; for when every one is busied with his own prayers,
you cannot at all join in the public service of God which is offered up in your name. The like
I may say of stupid forms of prayer, and tying yourselves to a platform, written in a book,
or to some certain words gotten by the heart? Who hath commanded this? Sure, not the Lord,
who hath promised his Spirit to teach them to pray, and help their infirmities, who know not
how, nor what to pray. It is a device of your own, invented by Satan to quench the spirit of
supplication, which should be the very natural breathing of a Christian. But there are some
so grossly ignorant of what prayer is, that they make use of the ten commandments, and creed,
as a prayer. So void are they of the knowledge and Spirit of God that they cannot discern betwixt
God’s commands to themselves and their own requests to God; betwixt his speaking to men, and
their speaking to him; between their professing of him before men, and praying and confessing
to him. All this is but forged, imaginary worship,—worship falsely so called, which the Father
seeks not, and receives not.

But what if I should say, that the most part of your worship, even that which is commanded
of God, as prayer, hearing, reading, &c., hath no truth in it, I should say nothing amiss.
For though you do those things that are commanded, yet not as commanded, without any respect
to divine appointment; and only because you have received them as traditions from your fathers,
and because you are taught so by the precepts of men, and are accustomed so to do: therefore
the stamp of God’s will and pleasure is not engraven on them, but of your own will, or of the
will of men. Let me pose(138) your consciences, many of you, what difference is there between
your praying and your plowing; between your hearing, and your harrowing; between your reading
in the Scriptures, and your reaping in the harvest; between your religious service and your
common ordinary actions; I say, what difference is there in the rise of these? You do many
civil things out of custom, or because of the precepts of men; and is there any other principle
at the bottom of your religious performances? Do you at all consider these are divine appointments,—these
have a stamp of his authority on them? And from the conscience of such an immediate command
of God, and the desire to please him and obey him, do you go about these? I fear many cannot
say it. O, I am sure all cannot, though it may be all will say it. Therefore your religious
worship can come in no other account than will-worship, or man-worship. It hath not the stamp
of truth on it,—an express conformity to the truth of God as his truth.

But we must press this out a little more. Truth is opposed to a ceremony and shadow. The ceremonies
of old were shadows, or the external body of religion, in which the soul and spirit of godliness
should have been enclosed; but the Lord did always urge more earnestly the substance and truth
than the ceremony,—the weightier matters of the law, piety, equity, and sobriety, than these
lighter external ceremonies. He sets a higher account upon mercy than sacrifice, and upon obedience
than ceremonies. But this people turned it just contrary. They summed up all their religion
in some ceremonial performance, and separated those things God had so nearly conjoined. They
would be devout men in offering sacrifices, in their washings, in their rites, and yet made
no conscience of heart and soul piety towards God and upright just dealing with men. Therefore
the Lord so often quarrels with them, and rejects all their service as being a device and invention
of their own, which never entered into his heart. Isa. v. 10-15, Jer. vii. throughout, Isa.
lxvi. 3-4, Isa. xxviii. Now, if you will examine it impartially, it is even just so with us.
There are some external things in religion which, in comparison with the weightier things of
faith and obedience are but ceremonial. In these you place the most part if not all your religion,
and think yourselves good Christians, if you be baptized, and hear the word, and partake of
the Lord’s table, and such like, though in the meantime you be not given to secret prayer,
and reading, and do not inwardly judge and examine yourselves that ye may flee unto a Mediator—though
your conversation be unjust and scandalous among men. I say unto such souls as the Lord unto
the Jews, “Who hath required this at your hands? Who commanded you to hear the word, to be
baptized, to wait on public ordinances? Away with all this, it is abomination to his majesty!”
Though it please you never so well, the more it displeases him. If you say, Why commands he
us to hear? &c., I say, the Lord never commanded these external ordinances for the sum of true
religion; that was not the great thing which was in his heart, that he had most pleasure unto
but the weightier matters of the law, piety, equity, and sobriety, a holy and godly conversation
adorning the gospel. The truth is holiness and righteousness. That external profession is but
a ceremony. While you separate these external ordinances from these weighty duties of piety
and justice, they are but a dead body without a soul. If the Lord required truth of old, much
more now, when he hath abolished the multitude of ceremonies, that the great things of his
law may be more seen and loved.

If you would then be true worshippers, look to the whole mind of God, and especially the chief
pleasure of God’s mind, that which he most delights in, and by any means do not separate what
God hath conjoined. Do not divide righteousness towards men from a profession of holiness to
God, else it is but a falsehood, a counterfeit coin. Do not please yourselves so much in external
church privileges, without a holy and godly conversation adorning the gospel, but let the chief
study, endeavour, and delight of your souls be about that which God most delights in. Let the
substantiate of religion have the first place in the soul. Pray more in secret, that will be
the life of your souls. You ought, indeed, to attend public ordinances, but, above all, take
heed to your conversation and walking at home, and in secret. Prayer in your family is a more
substantial worship than to sit and hear prayer in public, and prayer in secret is more substantial
than that. The more retired and immediate a duty be, the more weighty it is, the more it crosses
thy corruptions and evidences the stamp of God on thy affections, the more divine it is, and
therefore to serve God in these is to serve him in truth. Practice hath more of truth in it
than a profession. “When your fathers executed judgment, was not this to know me?” Duties that
have more opposition from our nature, against them, and less fuel or oil to feed the flame
of our self love and corruption, have more truth in them, and if you should worship God in
all other duties, and not especially in these, you do not worship him in truth.

Next, let us consider the manner of divine worship, and this is as needful to true worship
as true matter, that it he commanded, and done as it is commanded,—that completes true worship.
Now, I know no better way or manner to worship God in, than so to worship him, as our worship
may carry the stamp of his image upon it as it may be a glass wherein we may behold God’s nature
and properties. For such as himself is, such he would be acknowledged to be. I would think
it were true worship indeed, which had engraven on it the name of the true and living God,
if it did speak out so much of itself. “That God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that
seek him diligently.” Most part of our service speaks an unknown God, and carries such an inscription
upon it, “To the unknown God.” There is so little either reverence, or love, or fear, or knowledge
in it, as if we did not worship the true God, but an idol. It is said, that “the fool says
in his heart, there is no God, because his thoughts and affections and actions are so little
composed to the fear and likeness of that God, as if he did indeed plainly deny him.” I fear
it may be said thus of our worship. It says, There is no God. It is of such a nature that none
could conclude from it that it had any relation to the true God. Our prayers deny God, because
there is nothing of God appears in them. But this is true worship when it renders back to God
his own image and name. Unde repercussus redditur ipse sibi. As it is a pure fountain, in which
a man may see his shadow distinctly, but a troubled fountain or mire in which he cannot behold
himself, so it is pure worship, which receives and reflects the pure image of God, but impure
and unclean worship which cannot receive it and return it. I pray you, Christians, consider
this for it is such worshippers the Father seeks. And why seeks he such, but because in them
he finds himself? So to speak, his own image and superscription is upon them, his mercy is
engraven on their faith and confidence, his majesty and power is stamped on their humility
and reverence, his goodness is to be read in the soul’s rejoicing, his greatness and justice
in the soul’s trembling. Thus there ought to be some engravings on the soul answering the characters
of his glorious name. O how little of this is among them that desire to know something of God!
How little true worship, even among them whom the Father hath sought out to make true worshippers!
But alas, how are all of us unacquainted with this kind of worship! We stay upon the first
principles and practices of religion, and go not on to build upon the foundation. Sometimes
your worship hath a stamp of God’s holiness and justice in fear and terror at such a majesty
which makes you tremble before him, but where is the stamp of his mercy and grace which should
be written in your faith and rejoicing? Tremble and fear indeed, but “rejoice with trembling,
because there is mercy with him.” Sometimes there is rejoicing and quietness in the soul, but
that quickly degenerates into carnal confidence, and makes the soul turn grace into wantonness
and esteem of itself above what is right, because it is not counterpoised with the sense and
apprehension of his holiness and justice. But O to have these jointly written upon the heart
in worship, fear, reverence, confidence, humility and faith! That is a rare thing; it is a
divine composition and temper of spirit that makes a divine soul. For the most part, our worship
savours and smells nothing of God, neither his power, nor his mercy and grace, nor his holiness
and justice, nor his majesty and glory; a secure, faint, formal way, void of reverence, of
humility, of fervency, and of faith. I beseech you let us consider, as before the Lord, how
much pains and time we lose, and please none but ourselves, and profit none at all. Stir up
yourselves as in his sight for it is the keeping of our souls continually as in his sight which
will stamp our service with his likeness. The fixed and constant meditation on God and his
glorious properties, this will beget the resemblance between our worship and the God whom we
worship and it will imprint his image upon it, and then it should please him, and then it should
profit thee, and then it should edify others.

But more particularly, the worship must have the stamp of God’s spiritual nature, and be conformed
to it in some measure, else it cannot please him. There must be a conformity between God and
souls. This is the great end of the gospel, to repair that image of God which was once upon
man, and make him like God again. Now, it is this way that Jesus Christ repairs this image,
and brings about the conformity with God, by the soul’s worshipping of God suitable to his
nature, which, as it grows more and more suitable to God’s nature, it is the more and more
like God, and happy in that likeness. Now, “God is a Spirit, therefore,” saith Christ, you
“must worship him in spirit and in truth.” The worship then of saints must be of a spiritual
nature, that it may be like the immortal divine Spirit. It is such worshippers the Father seeks.
He seeks souls to make them like himself and this likeness and conformity to God is the very
foundation of the soul’s happiness, and eternal refreshment. This is a point of great consequence,
and I fear not laid to heart. The worship must be like the worshipped. It is a spirit must
worship the eternal Spirit. It is not a body that can be the principal and chief agent in the
business. What communion can God have with your bodies, while your souls are removed far from
him, more than with beasts? All society and fellowship must be between those that are like
one another. A man can have no comfortable company with beasts, or with stones, or with trees.
It is men that can converse with men, and a spirit must worship the self being Spirit. Do not
mistake this as if under the cays of the gospel we were not called to an external and bodily
worship—to any service to which our outward man is instrumental. That is one of the deep delusions
of this age, into which some men, “reprobate concerning the faith,” have fallen, that there
should be no external ordinances, but that Christians are now called to a worship all spirit,
pure spirit, &c. This is one of the spirits, and spiritual doctrines (that call themselves
so) which ye must not receive, for it is neither the Spirit of God nor of Christ that teacheth
this. Not the Spirit of God the Creator, because he hath made the whole man, body and soul,
and so must be worshipped of the whole man. He hath created man in such a capacity as he may
offer up external actions in a reasonable manner, with the inward affections. As the Lord hath
created him, so should he serve him—every member every part in its own capacity,—the soul to
precede, and the body to follow,—the soul to be the chief worshipper, and the body its servant
employed in the worship. True worship hath a body and a soul as well as a true man, and as
the soul separated is not a complete man, so neither is the soul separated a complete worshipper
without the body. The external ordinances of God is the body, the inward soul affection is
the spirit, which being joined together make complete worship. Neither is it the Spirit of
Christ which teacheth this, because our Lord Jesus hath taught us to offer up our bodies and
spirits both as a reasonable service, Rom. xii. 1, 2. The sacrifice of the bodily performance
offered up by the spiritual affection and renewed mind is a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable
and reasonable. That Spirit which dwelt in Christ above measure, did not think it too base
to vent itself in the way of external ordinances. He was, indeed, above all, above the law,
yet did willingly come under them to teach us, who have so much need and want, to come under
them. He prayed much, he preached, he did sing and read, to teach us how to worship, and how
much need we have of prayer and preaching. This was not the spirit Christ promised to his disciples
and apostles, which spirit did breathe most lively in the use of external ordinances all their
days, and this is not the spirit which was at that hour in which Christ spoke “the hour is
come and now is,” ver. 23, in which the true worship of God shall not be in the external Jewish
ceremonies and rites, void of all life and inward sense of piety, but the true worship of God
shall be made up of a soul and body,—of spirit and truth—of the external appointed ordinances
according to the word of truth, and the spirit of truth,—and of the spirit and inward soul-affection
and sincerity which shall quicken and actuate that external performance. There were no such
worshippers then as had no use of ordinances. Christ was not such, his disciples were not such,
therefore it is a new gospel, which, if an angel should bring from heaven, ye ought not to
receive it.

As it is certain, then, that both soul and body must be employed in this business, so it is
sure that the soul and spirit must be the first mover and chiefest agent in it, because it
is a spiritual business, and hath relation to the Fountain spirit, which hath the most perfect
opposition to all false appearances and external shows. That part of man that cometh nearest
God, must draw nearest in worshipping God, and if that be removed far away, there is no real
communion with God. Man judges according to the outward appearance, and can reach no farther
than the outward man, but God is an all searching Spirit, who trieth the heart and reins, and
therefore he will pass another judgment upon your worship than men can do, because he observes
all the secret wanderings and escapes of the heart out of his sight. He misses the soul when
you present attentive ears or eloquent tongues. There is no dallying with His Majesty, painting
will not deceive him, his very nature is contrary to hypocrisy and dissimulation; and what
is it but dissimulation, when you present yourselves to religious exercises as his people,
but within are nothing like it, nothing awaking nothing present? O consider, my beloved, what
a one you have to do with! It is not men, but the Father of spirits, who will not be pleased
with what pleases men, of your own flesh, but must have a spirit to serve him. Alas! what are
we doing with such empty names and shows of religion? Busied with the outside of worship only,
as if we had none to do with but men who have eyes of flesh. All that we do in this kind is
lost labour, and will never be reckoned up in the account of true worship. I am sure you know
and may reflect upon yourselves, that you make religion but a matter of outward fashion and
external custom; you have never almost taken it to heart in earnest. You may frequent the ordinances,—you
may have a form of godliness consisting in some outward performances and privileges,—and O,
how void and destitute of all spirit, and life, and power! Not to speak of the removal of affection
and the employing of the marrow of your soul upon base lusts and creatures, or the scattering
of your desires abroad amongst them, for that is too palpable, even your very thoughts and
minds are removed from this business, you have nothing present but an ear, or eye, and your
minds are about other business, your desires, your fears, your joys, and delights, your affections,
never did run in the channel of religious exercises, all your passion is vented in other things.
But here you are blockish and stupid, without any sensible apprehension of God, his mercy,
or justice, or wrath, or of your own misery and want. You sorrow in other things, but none
here, none for sin! You joy for other things, but none here, you cannot rejoice at the gospel!
Prayer is a burden, not a delight. If your spirits were chiefly employed in religious duties,
religion would be almost your element, your pleasure and recreation; but now it is wearisome
to the flesh, because the spirit taketh not the chief weight upon it. O! “be not deceived,
God is not mocked.” You do but mock yourselves with external shows, while you are satisfied
with them. I beseech you, look inwardly, and be not satisfied with the outward appearance,
but ask at thy soul, where it is, and how it is. Retire within, and bring up thy spirit to
this work. I am sure you may observe that any thing goes more smoothly and sweetly with you
than the worship of God, because your mind is more upon any thing else. I fear the most part
of us who endeavour, in some measure, to seek God, have too much dross of outward formality,
and much scum of filthy hypocrisy and guile. O! pray that the present furnace may purge away
this scum. It is the great ground of God’s present controversy with Scotland, but, alas! the
bellows are like to burn, and we not to be purged. Our scum goes not out from us. We satisfy
ourselves with some outward exercises of religion. Custom undoes us all, and it was never more
undoing than when indignation and wrath are pursuing it. O! that you would ponder what you
lose by it,—both the sweetness and advantage of godliness, beside the dishonour of God. You
take a formal, negligent, and secure way as the most easy way, and the most pleasing to your
flesh, and I am persuaded you find it the most difficult way, because you want all the pleasant
and sweet refreshment and soul delights you might have in God, by a serious and diligent minding
of religion. The pleasure and sweetness of God tasted and found, will make diligence and pains
more easy than slothfulness can be to the slothful. This oils the wheels, and makes them run
swiftly, formality makes them drive heavily. Thus you live always in a complaining humour,—sighing,
and going backward,—because you have some stirring principle of conscience within which bears
witness against you, and your formal sluggish disposition on the other hand refuses to awake
and work. You are perplexed and tormented between these two. When thy spirit and affections
go one way, and thy body another, when thy conscience drives on the spirit, and thy affections
draw back, it must needs be an unpleasant business.

                               Lecture XII.

The Unity Of The Divine Essence, And The Trinity Of Persons. 16. Religion and true godliness
is a bundle of excellent mysteries—of things hid from the world, yea, from the wise men of
the world, (1 Cor. ii. 6.) and not only so, but secrets in their own nature, the distinct knowledge
whereof is not given to saints in this estate of distance and absence from the Lord. There
is almost nothing in divinity, but it is a mystery in itself, how common soever it be in the
apprehensions of men. For it is men’s overly,(139) and common and slender apprehensions of
them, which make them look so commonly upon them. There is a depth in them, but you will not
know it, till you search it, and sound it, and the more you sound, you shall find it the more
profound. But there are some mysteries small and some great. There is a difference amongst
them; all are not of one stature, of one measure. The mystery of Christ’s incarnation and death
and resurrection, is one of the great mysteries of religion, “God manifest in the flesh.” Yet
I conceive there is a greater mystery than it, and of all mysteries in nature or divinity I
know none equal to this,—the Holy Trinity. And it must needs be greatest of all, and without
controversy greatest, because it is the beginning and end of all,—fons et finis omnium. All
mysteries have their rise here, and all of them return hither. This is furthest removed from
the understandings of men,—what God himself is, for himself is infinitely above any manifestation
of himself. God is greater than God manifested in the flesh, though in that respect he be too
great for us to conceive. There is a natural desire in all men to know, and, if any thing be
secret and wonderful the desire is the more inflamed after the knowledge of it. The very difficulty
or impossibility of attaining it, instead of restraining the curiosity of man’s spirit, doth
rather incense it. Nitimur in vetitum(140) is the fruit, the sad fruit we plucked and eat from
the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If the Lord reveal any thing plainly in his word
to men, that is despised and set at nought, because it is plain, whereas the most plain truths,
which are beyond all controversy, are the most necessary, and most profitable, for our eternal
salvation. But if there be any secret mystery in the Scriptures, which the Lord hath only pointed
out more obscurely to us, reserving the distinct and clear understanding of it to himself,
(Deut. xxix. 29.),—that is the apple which our accursed natures will long for, and catch after,
though there be never so much choice of excellent saving fruit in the paradise of the Scriptures
besides. If the ark be covered to keep men from looking into it, that doth rather provoke the
curious spirit of man to pry into it, 1 Sam. vi. 10. If the Lord show his wonderful glory in
the mount, and charge his people not to come near, lest the glorious presence of God kill them,
he must put rails about it, to keep them back, or else they will be meddling. Such is the unbridled
license of our minds, and the perverse dispositions of our natures, that where God familiarly
invites us to come,—what he earnestly presseth us to search and know,—that we despise as trivial
and common, and what he compasseth about with a divine darkness of inaccessible light, and
hath removed far from the apprehensions of all living, that we will needs search into, and
wander into those forbidden compasses, with daring boldness. I conceive this holy and profound
mystery is one of those “secret things” which it belongs to God to know, for who knoweth the
Father but the Son, or the Son but the Father, or who knoweth the mind of God but the Spirit?
Yet the foolish minds of men will not be satisfied with the believing ignorance of such a mystery,
but will needs inquire into those depths, that they may find satisfaction for their reason.
But, as it happeneth with men who will boldly stare upon the sun, their eyes are dazzled and
darkened with its brightness, or those that enter into a labyrinth, which they can find no
way to come out, but the further they go into it, the more perplexed it is, and the more intricate,
even so it befalls many unsober and presumptuous spirits, who, not being satisfied with the
simple truth of God, clearly asserting that this is, endeavour to examine it according to reason,
and to solve all the objections of carnal wit and reason, (which is often “enmity against God,”)
not by the silence of the Scriptures, but by answers framed according to the several capacities
of men. I say, all this is but daring to behold the infinite glory of God with eyes of flesh,
which makes them darkened in mind, and vanishing in their expressions, while they seek to behold
this inaccessible light, while they enter into an endless labyrinth of difficulties out of
which the thread of reason and disputation can never extricate them or lead them forth. But
the Lord hath showed us “a more excellent way,” though it may be despicable to men. Man did
fall from blessedness by his curious and wretched aim at some higher happiness and more wisdom;
the Lord hath chosen another way to raise him up again, by faith rather than knowledge, by
believing rather than disputing. Therefore the great command of the gospel is this, to receive
with a ready and willing mind whatsoever the Lord saith to us, whatsoever it may appear to
sense and reason, to dispute no more, to search no more into the secret of divine mysteries,
as if by searching we could find them out “unto perfection,” but to believe what is spoken,
“till the day break, and the shadows flee away,” and the darkness of ignorance be wholly dispelled
by the rising of the Sun of righteousness. We are called then to receive this truth,—That God
is one, truly one, and yet there are three in this one, the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. This,
I say, you must believe, because the wisdom of God saith it, though you know not how it is,
or how it can be. Though it seem a contradiction in reason, a trinity in unity, yet you must
lead your reason captive to the obedience of faith, and silence it with this one answer, The
Lord hath said it. If thou go on to dispute, and to inquire, “How can these things be?” thou
art escaped from under the power of faith, and art fled into the tents of human wisdom, where
thou mayest learn atheism, but no religion, for “the world by wisdom knew not God,” 1 Cor.
i. 21. And certainly, whoever he be that will not quiet his conscience, upon the bare word
of truth in this particular, but will call in the help of reason and disputation, how to understand
and maintain it, I think he shall be further from the true knowledge of God and satisfaction
of mind than before. There is no way here, but to flee into Paul’s sanctuary, “Who art thou,
O man, that disputest?”  Whenever thou thinkest within thyself? How may this be, how can one
be three, and three one? then withal let this of Paul sound in thine ears, “Who art thou, O
man, who disputest?” Think that thou art man, think that he is God! Believing ignorance is
much better than rash and presumptuous knowledge. Ask not a reason of these things, but rather
adore and tremble at the mystery and majesty of them. Christianity is “foolishness” to the
world upon this account, because it is an implicit faith so to speak, given to God. But there
is no fear of being deceived,—though he lead the blind  by a way thou knowest not, yet he cannot
lead thee wrong. This holy simplicity in believing every word of God, and trusting without
more trying by disputation, is the very character of Christianity, and it will be found only
true wisdom. For if any will become wise, he must be a fool in men’s account. That he may be
wise, he must quit his reason to learn true religion, which indeed is a more excellent and
divine reason, neither is it contrary to it, though it be high above it.

In this place of Moses, you have the unity of God asserted, “The Lord thy God is one Lord,”
and it is indeed engraven on the very hearts of men by nature, that God is one. For all may
know that the common notion and apprehension of God is, that he is a most perfect Being,—the
original of all things,—most wise, most powerful, and infinite in all perfections. Now common
reason may tell any man that there can be but one thing most perfect and excellent, there can
be but one infinite,—one almighty,—one beginning and end of all,—one first mover, one first
cause, “of whom are all things, and who is of none.”

Again, in this place of John ye have a testimony of the blessed trinity of persons, Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, in that holy unity of essence. The great point which John hath in hand
is this fundamental of our salvation that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, and Saviour of the
world, in whom all our confidence should be placed, and upon whom we should lean the weight
of our souls. And this he proves by a two-fold testimony—one out of heaven, another in the
earth. There are three bearing witness to this truth in heaven, “the Father the Word,” (that
is, Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, whom this apostle calls the Word of God, or Wisdom
of God, John i. 1) and the Holy Ghost. The Father witnessed to this truth in an audible voice
out of heaven, when Christ was baptized, (Mat. iii. 17) “This is my beloved Son, in whom I
am well pleased.” Here is the Father’s testimony of the Son when he was baptized which was
given very solemnly in a great congregation of people, and divinely, with great glory and majesty
from heaven, as if the heavens had opened upon him, and the inaccessible light of God had shined
down on him This was confirmed in the transfiguration, (Mat. xvii. 5) where the Lord gave a
glorious evidence—to the astonishment of the three disciples—how he did account of him—how
all saints and angels must serve him, “him hath God the Father sealed,” saith John. Indeed,
the stamp of divinity, of the divine image in such an excellent manner upon the man Christ,
was a seal set on by God the father, signifying and confirming his approbation of his well
beloved Son and of the work he was going about. Then the Son himself did give ample testimony
of this. This was the subject of his preaching to the world, “I am the light and the life of
men, he that believeth in me shall be saved.” And therefore he may be called the Word of God,
(John i. 1) and the Wisdom of God, (Prov. viii.) because he hath revealed unto us the blessed
mystery of wisdom concerning our salvation. He is the very expression and character of the
Father’s person and glory, (Heb. i. 3) in his own person, and he hath revealed and expressed
his Father’s mind, and his own office, so fully to the world that there should be no more doubt
of it. Out of the mouth of these two witnesses this word might be established, but for superabundance,
behold a third, the Holy Ghost witnessing at his baptism,—in his resurrection,—after his ascension.
The Holy Ghost signifieth his presence and consent to that work, in the similitude of a dove,
the Holy Ghost testifieth it in the power that raised him from the dead, the Holy Ghost put
it beyond all question when he descended upon the apostles according to Christ’s promise. For
the other three witnesses on earth, we shall not stay upon it, only know, that the work of
the regeneration of souls by the power of the Word and Spirit signified by water, the justification
of guilty souls signified by the blood of Jesus Christ, and the testimony of the Spirit in
our consciences, bearing witness to our spirits, is an assured testimony of this, that Jesus
Christ, in whom we believe, is “the Only Begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth.”
The changing, pacifying, and comforting of souls in such a wonderful manner, cries aloud that
he in whom the soul believes is the true and living God, whom to know is eternal life. But
mark, I pray you, the accuracy of the apostle in the change of speech. “These three” witnesses
on earth, saith he, “agree in one, in giving one common testimony to the Son of God and the
Saviour of sinners.” But as for the heavenly witnesses—the Father, the Word and the Holy Ghost,—however
they be three after an inconceivable manner, and that they do also agree in one common testimony
to the Mediator of men, yet moreover they are One. They not only agree in one but are one God,—one
simple, undivided, self-being, infinite Spirit,—holden out to us in three persons, the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, to whom be praise and glory.

                              Lecture XIII. There is no refuse in it, no simple and plain history, but
it tends to some edification, no profound or deep mystery, but it is
profitable for salvation. Whatsoever secrets there be in the mysteries of
God which are reserved from us, though it be given us but to “know in
part,” and “darkly through a vail,” yet as much is given to us to know as
may make the man of God perfect in every good work. As much is given us to
know as may build us up to eternal salvation. If there were no more use of
these deep mysteries of the holy Trinity, &c. but to silence all flesh,
and restrain the unlimited spirits of men, and keep them within the bounds
of sobriety and faith, it were enough. That great secret would teach as
much by its silence and darkness, as the plainer truths do by speaking out
clearly. O that this great mystery did compose our hearts to some reverend
and awful apprehension of that God we have to do with, and did imprint in
our soul a more feeling sense of our darkness and ignorance. This were
more advantage then all the gain of light, or increase of knowledge that
can come from the search of curiosity. If men would labour to walk in that
light they have attained, rather than curiously inquire after what they
cannot know by inquiry, they should sooner attain more true light. If men
would set about the practice of what they know, without doubt they would
more readily come to a resolution and clearness in doubtful things.
Religion is now turned into questions and school debates. Men begin to
believe nothing but dispute everything, under a pretence of searching for
light and resolution. But for the most part, while men look after light,
they darken themselves, this is the righteous judgment of the Lord upon
the world that doth not receive the truth in love, or walk in the light of
what they have already attained, therefore he gives men up to wander in
their search into the dark dungeons of human wisdom and fancy, and to lose
what they have already. If those things which are “without controversy”
(as the apostle speaks, 1 Tim. iii. 16) were indeed made conscience of,
and embraced in love, and practised, it were beyond all controversy that
the most part of present controversies would cease. But it falls out with
many, as with the dog, that, catching at a shadow in the water, lost the
substance in his teeth, so they, pursuing after new discoveries in
controverted things, and not taking a heart hold and inward grip of the
substantial truths of the gospel, which are beyond all controversy, do
even lose what they have. Thus, even that when they have not is taken from
them, because though they have it in judgment, yet they have it not surely
and solidly in affection, that it may be holden. So, to this present point
if we could learn to adore and admire this holy, holy, holy One,—if we
could in silence and faith sit down and wonder at this mystery,—it would
be more profitable to us, and make way for a clearer manifestation of God,
than if we should search and inquire into all the volumes that are written
upon it, thinking by this means to satisfy our reason. I think there is
more profoundness in the sobriety of faith than in the depths of human
wisdom and learning. When the mystery is such an infinite depth, O but
men’s eloquence and wisdom must be shallow, far too shallow either to find
it out, or unfold it.

But there is yet both more instruction and consolation to be pressed out of this mystery, and,
therefore, if you cannot reach it in itself, O consider what it concerns us, how we may be
edified by it, for this is true religion! Look upon that place of Moses—what is the great instruction
he draws from this unity of God’s essences? ver. There is no man but he must have some God,
that is some thing whereupon he placeth his affection most. Every man hath some one thing he
loves and respects beyond all other things, some lord and master that commands him. Therefore
saith Christ “no man can serve two masters.” Before a man will want a god to love and serve
he will make them, and then worship them. Yea he will make himself, his belly, his back, his
honour, and pleasure, a god, and sacrifice all his affections and desires and endeavours to
these. The natural subordination of man to God, the relation he hath as a creature to a Creator,
is the first and fundamental relation beyond all respects to himself or other fellow creatures.
This is the proto natural(141) obligation upon the creature, therefore it should have returned
in a direct line to his majesty all its affections and endeavours. But man’s fall from God
hath made a wretched thraw(142) and crook in the soul that it cannot look any more after him,
but bows downwards towards creatures below it, or bends inwardly towards itself, and so since
the fall man hath turned his heart from the true God, and set it upon vanity,—upon lying vanities,—upon
base dead idols which can neither help him nor hurt him. “Your hearts are gone a whoring from
God. O that ye would believe it.” None of you will deny but ye have broken all the commands.
Yet such is the brutish ignorance and stupidity of the most part, that you will not confess
that when it comes to particulars, and especially, if you should be challenged for loving other
things more than God, or having other gods besides the true God, you will instantly deny it,
and that with an asseveration and aversation—“God forbid that I have another God.” Alas! this
shows, that what you confess in the general is not believed in the heart, but only is like
the prating of children, whom you may learn to say any thing. I beseech you consider, that
what you give your time, pains, thoughts, and affections to, that is your God. You must give
God all your heart, and so retain nothing of your own will if God be your God. But do ye not
know that your care and grief and desire and love vents another way, towards base things? You
know that you have a will of your own which goeth quite contrary to his holy will in all things,
therefore Satan hath bewitched you, and your hearts deceive you, when they persuade you that
you have had no other God but the true God. Christianity raises the soul again, and advances
it by degrees to this love of God, from which it had fallen. The soul returns to its first
husband, from whom it went a whoring, and now the stamp of God is so upon it that it is changed
into his image and glory. Having tasted how good this one self sufficient good is, it gladly
and easily divorces from all other lovers. It renounces former lusts of ignorance, and now
begins to live in another. Love transplants the soul into God, and in him it lives, and with
him it walks. It is true, this is done gradually, there is much of the heart yet unbroken to
this sweet and easy yoke of love, much of the corrupt nature untamed, unreclaimed, yet so much
is gained by the first conversion of the soul to God, that all is given up to him in affection
and desire. He hath the chief place in the soul. The disposition of the spirit hath some stamp
and impression of his oneness and singularity. My beloved is one. Though a Christian is not
wholly rid of strange lords, yet the tie of subjection to them is broken. They may often intrude
by violence upon him, but he is in a hostile posture of affection and endeavour against them.
I beseech you, since the Lord is one, and there is none beside him, O let this be engraven
on your hearts, that your inward affections and outward actions may express that one Lord to
be your God, and none other beside him! It is a great shame and reproach to Christians that
they do not carry the stamp of the first principle of religion upon their walking. The condition
and conversation of many declare how little account they make of the true God. Why do ye enslave
your souls to your lusts and the service of the flesh, if ye believe in this one God? Why do
ye all things to please yourselves, if this one Lord be your one God? As for you, the Israel
of God, who are called by Jesus Christ to partake with the commonwealth of Israel in the covenant
of promises hear, I beseech you, this, and let your souls incline to it, and receive it. Your
God is one Lord; have, then, no other lords over your souls and consciences, not yourselves,
not others.

But in the next place: Let us consider to what purpose John leads such three witnesses, that
we may draw some consolation from it. The thing testified and witnessed unto is the ground
work of all a Christian’s hope and consolation, that Jesus Christ is the eternal Son of God
and Saviour of the world—one, able to save to the uttermost all that put their trust in him,
so that every soul that finds itself lost, and not able to subsist, nor abide the judgment
of God, may repose their confidence in him, and lay the weight of their eternal welfare upon
his death and sufferings, with assurance to find rest and peace in him to their souls. He is
such an one as faith may triumph in him over the world, and all things beside. A believer may
triumph in his victory, and in the faith of his victory, over hell and death and the grave
may overcome personally, “For this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith,”
ver. 4. And how could a soul conquer by faith, if he in whom it believes were not “declared
to be the Son of God with power?” There is nothing so mean and weakly as faith in itself. It
is a poor despicable thing of itself, and that it sees, and that it acknowledges. Yea, faith
is a very act of its self denial. It is a renouncing of all help without and within itself,
save only that which is laid on Christ Jesus. Therefore it were the most unsuitable mean of
prevailing and the most insufficient weapon for gaining the victory, if the object of it were
not the strong God the Lord Almighty, from whom it derives and borrows all its power and virtue,
either to pacify the conscience, or to expiate sin or to overcome the world. O consider, Christians,
where the foundation of your hope is situated! It is in the divine power of our Saviour. If
he who declared so much love and good will to sinners, by becoming so low, and suffering so
much, have also all power in heaven and earth, if he be not only man near us, to make for us
boldness of access, but God near God to prevail effectually with God then certainly he is “a
sure foundation laid in Zion, elect and precious.” He is an immovable Rock of Ages, whosoever
trusts their soul to him shall not be ashamed. I am sure that many of you consider not this,
that Jesus Christ, who was in due time born of the virgin Mary and died for sinners, is the
eternal Son of God equal to his Father in all glory and power. O how would this make the gospel
a great mystery to souls, and the redemption of souls a precious and wonderful work, if it
were considered! Would not souls stand at this anchor immoveable in temptation, if their faith
were pitched on this sure foundation and their hope cast upon this solid ground! O know your
Redeemer is strong and mighty, and none can pluck you out of his hand, and himself will cast
none out that comes! If the multitude of you believed this you would not make so little account
of the gospel that comes to you, and make so little of your sins which behoved to be taken
away by the blood of God and could be expiated by no other propitiation, you would not think
it so easy to satisfy God with some words of custom, and some public services of form, as you
do, you would not for all the world deal with God alone without this Mediator. And being convinced
of sin, if you believe this solidly, that he in whom forgiveness of sin and salvation is preached
is the same Lord God whom you hear in the Old Testament, who gave out the law, and inspired
the prophets,—the Only Begotten of the Father, in a way infinitely removed from all created
capacities,—you could not but find the Father well satisfied in him and find a sufficient ransom
in his death and doings to pacify God, and to settle your consciences.

But as the thing testified is a matter of great consolation, so the witnesses testifying to
this fundamental of our religion may be a ground of great encouragement to discouraged souls.
It is ordinary, that the apprehensions of Christians take up Jesus Christ as very lovely, and
more loving than any of the persons of the Godhead, either the Father or the Holy Ghost. There
are some thoughts of estrangedness and distance of the father, as if the Son did really reconcile
and gain him to love us, who before hated us and upon this mistake, the soul is filled with
continual jealousies and suspicions of the love of God. But observe I beseech you, the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Ghost, all of them first agreeing in one testimony. The Father declares
from heaven that he is abundantly well pleased with his Son, not only because he is his Son,
but even in the undertaking and performing of that work of redemption of sinners. It is therefore
his most serious invitation and peremptory command to all to hear him, and believe in him,
Mat. iii. 17, John iii. 23. Nay, if we speak more properly, our salvation is not the business
of Christ alone, as we imagine it, but the whole Godhead is interested in it deeply, and so
deeply, that you cannot say who loves it most or likes it most. The Father is the very fountain
of it, his love is the spring of all—“God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten
Son.” Christ hath not purchased that eternal love to us, but is rather the gift, the free gift
of eternal love. And therefore, as we have the Son delighting among the sons of men, Prov.
viii. 31, and delighting to be employed and to do his will, Psal. xl. 8, so we have the Father
delighting to send his Son, and taking pleasure in instructing him and furnishing him for it,
Isa. xlii. 1. And therefore Christ often professed that he was not about his own work, but
the Father’s work who sent him, and that it was not his own will, but his Father’s he was fulfilling.
Therefore we should not look upon the head spring of our salvation in the Son but rather ascend
up to the Father, whose love and wisdom did frame all this. And thus we may be confident to
come to the Father in the Son, knowing that it was the love of the Father that sent the Son,
though indeed we must come to him only in the Son, in the name of Christ, and faith of acceptation
through a Mediator, not because the Mediator purchaseth his goodwill, but because his love
and good will only vents in his beloved Son Christ, and therefore he will not be known or worshipped
but in him, in whom he is near sinners, and reconciling the world to himself. And then the
Holy Ghost concurs in this testimony, and as the Son had the work of purchasing rights and
interests to grace and glory, so the great work of applying all these privileges to saints
and making them actually partakers of the blessings of Christ’s death, is committed in a special
way to the Holy Ghost. “I will send the Comforter,” &c. So then Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
all agree in one, that Jesus Christ is a sure refuge for sinners—a plank for ship-broken men—a
firm and sure foundation to build everlasting hopes upon. There is no party dissenting in all
the gospel. The business of the salvation of lost souls is concluded in this holy council of
the Trinity with one voice. As at first, all of them agreed to make man,—“let us make man,”
so again, they agree to make him again, to restore him to life in the second Adam. Whoever
thou be that wouldst flee to God for mercy, do it in confidence. The Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost are ready to welcome thee,—all of one mind to shut out none, to cast out none. But
to speak properly, it is but one love, one will, one counsel, and purpose in the Father, Son,
and Spirit, for “these Three are One,” and not only agree in One, they are One, and what one
loves or purposes, all love and purpose. I would conclude this matter with a word of direction
how to worship God, which I cannot express in fitter terms than these of Nazianzen: “I cannot
think upon one, but by and by I am compassed about with the brightness of three, and I cannot
distinguish three but I am suddenly driven back unto one.” There is great ignorance and mistake
of this even among the best Christians. The grosser sort, when they hear of one God only, think
Christ but some eminent man, and so direct their prayers to God only, excluding the Son and
Holy Ghost, or when they hear of three persons,—the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,—they straightway
divide their worship, and imagine a trinity of gods. And I fear, those of us who know most,
use not to worship God as he hath revealed himself,—Father, Son and Holy Ghost, and yet one
God. Our minds are reduced to such a simple unity as we think upon one of them alone or else
distracted and divided into such a plurality, that we worship in a manner three gods instead
of one. It is a great mystery to keep the right middle way. Learn, I beseech you, so to conceive
of God, and so to acknowledge him, and pray to him as you may do it in the name of Jesus Christ,
that all the persons may have equal honour, and all of them one honour, that while you consider
one God, you may adore that sacred and blessed Trinity, and while you worship that Holy Trinity,
you may straightway be reduced to an unity. To this wonderful and holy One, Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, be all praise and glory.

                               Lecture XIV.

Of The Decrees Of God.

    Eph. i. 11.—“Who worketh all things after the counsel of his own
    will.”—Job xxiii. 13. “He is in one mind, and who can turn him?
    and what his soul desireth, even that he doeth.”

Having spoken something before of God, in his nature and being and properties, we come, in
the next place, to consider his glorious majesty, as he stands in some nearer relation to his
creatures, the work of his hands. For we must conceive the first rise of all things in the
world to be in this self-being, the first conception of them to be in the womb of God’s everlasting
purpose and decree, which, in due time, according to his appointment, brings forth the child
of the creature to the light of actual existence and being. It is certain that his majesty
might have endured for ever, and possessed himself without any of these things. If he had never
resolved to create any thing without himself, he had been blessed then, as now, because of
his full and absolute self-sufficient perfection. His purposing to make a world, and his doing
of it, adds nothing to his inward blessedness and contentment. This glorious and holy One encloses
within his own being all imaginable perfections, in an infinite and transcendent manner, that
if you remove all created ones, you diminish nothing, if you add them all, you increase nothing.
Therefore it was in the superabundance of his perfection, that he resolved to show his glory
thus in the world. It is the creature’s indigence and limited condition which maketh it needful
to go without its own compass, for the happiness of its own being. Man cannot be happy in loving
himself. He is not satisfied with his own intrinsic perfections, but he must diffuse himself
by his affections and desires and endeavours, and, as it were, walks abroad upon these legs,
to fetch in some supply from the creature or Creator. The creature is constrained out of some
necessity thus to go out of itself, which speaks much indigence and want within itself. But
it is not so with his majesty. His own glorious Being contents him; his happiness is to know
that, and delight in it, because it comprehends in itself all that is at all possible, in the
most excellent and perfect manner that is conceivable,—nay, infinitely beyond what can be conceived
by any but himself. So he needs not go without himself to seek love or delight, for it is all
within him, and it cannot be without his own Being, unless it flow from within him. Therefore
ye may find in Scripture what complacency God hath in himself, and the Father in the Son, and
the Son in the Father. We find, Prov. viii., how the wisdom of God, our Lord Jesus, was the
Father’s delight from all eternity, and the Father again his delight, for he rejoiced always
before him, ver. 30.  And this was an all sufficient possession that one had of another, ver.
22. The love between the Father and the Son is holden out as the first pattern of all loves
and delights, John xvii. 23, 24. This then flows from the infinite excess of perfection and
exundation of self being, that his majesty is pleased to come without himself, to manifest
his own glory in the works of his hands, to decree and appoint other things beside himself,
and to execute that decree. We may consider in these words some particulars for our edification.

I. That the Lord hath from eternity purposed within himself and decreed to manifest his own
glory in the making and ruling of the world, that there is a counsel and purpose of his will
which reaches all things, which have been, are now, or are to be after this. This is clear,
for he works all things “according to the counsel of his own will.”

II. That his mind and purpose is one mind, one counsel. I mean not only one for ever, that
is, perpetual and unchangeable, as the words speak—but also one for all, that is, with one
simple act or resolution of his holy will he hath determined all these several things, all
their times, their conditions, their circumstances.

III. That whatsoever he hath from all eternity purposed, he in time practiseth it, and comes
to execution and working; so that there is an exact correspondence betwixt his will and his
work, his mind and his hand. He works according to the counsel of his will, and whatsoever
his soul desireth that he doeth.

IV. That his purpose and performance is infallible,—irresistible by any created power. Himself
will not change it, for “he is in one mind;” and none else can hinder it, for “who can turn
him?” He desireth and he doeth it, as in the original. There is nothing intervenes between
the desire and the doing, that can hinder the meeting of these two.

The first is the constant doctrine of the Holy Scriptures, of which ye should consider four
things: 1st, That his purpose and decree is most wise. His will is always one with wisdom;
therefore you have the purpose of his will mentioned thus, “the counsel of his will;” for his
will, as it were, takes counsel and advice of wisdom, and discerns according to the depth and
riches of his knowledge and understanding. We see among men these are separated often, and
there is nothing in the world so disorderly, so unruly and uncomely, as when will is divided
from wisdom. When men follow their own will and lusts as a law, against their conscience, that
is monstrous. The understanding and reason are the eyes of the will; if these be put out, or
if a man leave them behind him, he cannot but fall into a pit. But the purposes of God’s will
are depths of wisdom, nay, his very will is a sufficient rule and law; so that it may be well
used of him, Stat pro ratione voluntas,(143) Rom. ix. 11-18. If we consider the glorious fabric
of the world,—the order established in it,—the sweet harmony it keepeth in all its motions
and successions,—O it must be a wise mind and counsel that contrived it! Man now having the
idea of this world in his mind, might fancy and imagine many other worlds bearing some proportion
and resemblance to this. But if he had never seen nor known this world, he could never have
imagined the thousandth part of this world; he could in nowise have formed an image in his
mind of all those different kinds of creatures. Creatures must have some example and copy to
look to; but what was his pattern? “Who hath been his counsellor” to teach him? Rom. xi. 31.
Who gave him the first rudiments or principles of that art? Surely none. He had no pattern
given him,—not the least idea of any of these things furnished him,—but it is absolutely and
solely his own wise contrivance.—2d, This purpose of God is most free and absolute; there is
no cause, no reason, why he hath thus disposed all things, and not otherwise, as he might have
done, but his own good will and pleasure. If it be so in a matter of deepest concernment, (Rom.
ix. 18.) it must be so also in all other things. We may find, indeed, many inferior causes,—many
peculiar reasons for such and such a way of administration,—many ends and uses for which they
serve,—for there is nothing that his majesty hath appointed but it is for some use and reason,—yet
we must rise above all these, and ascend into the tower of his most high will and pleasure,
which is founded on a depth of wisdom; and from thence we shall behold all the order, administration,
and use of the creatures to depend. And herein is a great difference between his majesty’s
purpose and ours. You know there is still something presented under the notion of good and
convenient, that moves our will, and inclines us for its own goodness to seek after it, and
so to fall upon the means to compass it. Therefore, the end which we propose to ourselves hath
its influence upon our purposes, and pleasures them; so that from it the motion seems to proceed
first, and not so much from within; but there is no created thing can thus determine his majesty.
Himself, his own glory, is the great end which he loves for itself, and for which he loves
other things. But among other things, though there be many of them ordained one for another’s
use, yet his will and pleasure is the original of that order. He doth not find it, but makes
it. You see all the creatures below are appointed for man, as their immediate and next end,
for his use and service. But was it man’s goodness and perfection which did move and incline
his majesty to this appointment? No, indeed! but of his own good will be makes such things
serve man, that all of them together may be for his own glory.—3d, The Lord’s decree is the
first rise of all things that are, or have been, or are to come. This is the first original
of them all, to which they must be reduced as their spring and fountain. All of you may understand
that there are many things possible, which yet actually will never be. The Lord’s power and
omnipotency is of a further extent than his decree and purpose. His power is natural and essential
to his being; his decree is of choice, and voluntary. The Father could have sent a legion of
angels to have delivered his Son; the Son could have asked them, but neither of them would
do it, Matt. xxvi. 53. The Lord could have raised up children to Abraham out of stones, but
he would not, Matt. iii. 9. His power then comprehends within its reach all possible things
which do not in their own nature and proper conception imply a contradiction; so that infinite
worlds of creatures more perfect than this,—numbers of angels and men above these,—and creatures
in glory surpassing them again,—are within the compass of the boundless power and omnipotency
of God. But yet for all this it might have fallen out that nothing should actually and really
have been, unless his majesty had of his own free will decreed what is, or hath been, or is
to be. His will determines his power, and, as it were, puts it in the nearest capacity to act
and exercise itself. Here, then, we must look for the first beginning of all things that are.
They are conceived in the womb of the Lord’s everlasting purpose, as he speaks, Zeph. ii. 2.
The decree is, as it were, with child of beings, Isa. xliv. 7. It is God’s royal prerogative
to appoint things to come, and none can share with him in it. From whence is it, I pray you,
that of so many worlds which his power could have framed, this one is brought to light? Is
it not because this one was formed, as it were, in the belly of his eternal counsel and will?
From whence is it that so many men are, and no more—that our Lord Jesus was slain, when the
power of God might have kept him alive,—that those men, Judas, &c. were the doers of it, when
others might have done it? From whence are all those actions, good or evil, under the sun,
which he might have prevented, but from his good will and pleasure, from his determinate counsel?
Acts iv. 28. Can you find the original of these in the creature, why it is thus, and why not
otherwise? Can you conceive why, of all the infinite numbers of possible beings these are,
and no other? And, what hath translated that number of creatures, which is, from the state
of pure possibility to futurition or actual being, but the decisive vote of God’s everlasting
purpose and counsel? Therefore we should always conceive, that the creatures, and all their
actions, which have, or will have any being in the world, have first had a being in the womb
of God’s eternal counsel, and that his will and pleasure hath passed upon all things that are
and are not. His counsel has concluded of things that have been, or will be, that thus they
shall be; and his counsel determined of all other things which are also possible, that they
shall never come forth into the light of the world, but remain in the dark bowels of omnipotency,
that so we may give him the glory of all things that are not, and that are at all.—Then, 4th.
We should consider the extent of his decree and counsel; it is passed upon all things; it is
universal, reaching every being or action of the universe. This is the strain of the whole
Scripture. He did not, as some dream, once create the creatures in a good state, and put them
in capacity henceforth to preserve themselves, or exercise their own virtue and power, without
dependence on him, as an artificer makes an horologe, and orders it in all things, that it
may do its business without him. He is not only a general original of action and motion, as
if he would command a river to flow by his appointed channels; as if he did only work, and
rule the world by attorneys and ambassadors. That is the weakness and infirmity of earthly
kings, that they must substitute deputies for themselves. But this King appoints all immediately,
and disposes upon all the particular actions of his creatures, good or evil; and so he is universal
absolute Lord of the creature, of its being and doing. It were a long work to rehearse what
the Scripture speaks of this kind; but O! that ye would read them oftener, and ponder them
better, how there is nothing in this world,—which may seem to fall out by chance to you, that
you know not how it is to come to pass, and can see no cause nor reason of it,—but it falls
out by the holy will of our blessed Father. Be it of greater or less moment,—or be it a hair
of thy head fallen, or thy head cut off,—the most casual and  contingent thing,—though it surprised
the whole world of men and angels, that they wonder from whence it did proceed,—it is no surprisal
to him, for he not only knew it, but appointed it. The most certain and necessary thing, according
to the course of nature, it hath no certainty but from his appointment, who hath established
such a course in the creatures, and which he can suspend when he pleaseth. Be it the sin of
men and devils which seems most opposite to his holiness, yet even that cannot appear in the
world of beings, if it were not, in a holy righteous, and permissive way first conceived in
the womb of his eternal counsel, and if it were not determined by him, for holy and just ends,
Acts iv. 28.

The second thing propounded is, that his mind and counsel is one, one and the same, “yesterday,
today, and forever.” Therefore the apostle speaks of God, that there is no shadow of change
or turning in him, James i. 17. He is not a man that he should lie, neither the son of man
that he should repent; hath he said, and shall he not do it? Numb. xxiii. 19. And shall he
decree, and not execute it? Shall he purpose, and not perform it? “I am the Lord, I change
not,” that is his name, Mal. iii. 6. “The counsel of the Lord standeth for ever, the thoughts
of his heart to all generations,” Psal. xxxiii. 11. Men change their mind oftener than their
garments. Poor vain man, even in his best estate, is changeableness, and vicissitude itself,
altogether vanity! And this ariseth partly from the imperfection of his understanding, and
his ignorance because he does not understand what may fall out. There are many things secret
and hidden, which if he discovered, he would not be of that judgment, and many things may fall
out which may give ground of another resolution and partly from the weakness and perverseness
of his will, that cannot he constant in any good thing and is not so closely united to it as
that no fear or terror can separate from it. But there is no such imperfection in him, neither
ignorance nor weakness. “All things are naked before him,” all their natures, their circumstances,
all events, all emergencies, known to him are they, and “all his works from the beginning,
as perfectly as in the end.” And therefore he may come to a fixed resolution from all eternity
and being resolved he can see no reason of change because there can nothing appear after, which
he did not perfectly discover from the beginning. Therefore, whenever ye read in the Scripture
of the Lord’s repenting—as Gen. vi. 7, Jer. xviii. 8.—ye should remember that the Lord speaks
in our terms, and like nurses with their children uses our own dialect, to point out to us
our great ignorance of his majesty, that cannot conceive more honourably of him nor more distinctly
of ourselves. When he changeth all things about him, he is not changed, for all these changes
were at once in his mind, but when he changeth his outward dispensations he is said to repent
of what he is doing, because we use not to change our manner of dealing, without some conceived
grief, or repentance and change of mind. When a man goes to build a house, he hath no mind
but that it should continue so. He hath not the least thought of taking it down again, but
afterwards it becomes ruinous, and his estate enlarges, and then he takes a new resolution,
to cast it down to the ground and build a better. Thus it is with man, according as he varies
his work, he changes his mind. But it is not so with God. All these changes of his works—all
the successions of times, the variation of dealings the alteration of dispensations in all
ages—were at once in his mind, and all before him, so that he never goes to build a house but
he hath in his own mind already determined all the changes it shall be subject to. When he
sets up a throne in a nation, it is in his mind within such a period to cast it down again,
when he lifts up men in success and prosperity he doth not again change his mind when he throws
them down, for that was in his mind also so that there is no surprisal of him by any unexpected
emergence. Poor man hath many consultations ere he come to a conclusion, but it is not thus
with his counsel. Of all those strange and new things which fall out in our days, he hath one
thought of them all from eternity. He is in one mind, and none of all these things have put
him off his eternal mind or put him to a new advisement about his great projects. Not only
doth he not change his mind, but his mind and thought is one of all, and concerning all. Our
poor, narrow, and limited minds, must part their thoughts among many businesses,—one thought
for this, another for that, and one after another. But with him there is neither succession
of counsels and purposes, nor yet plurality, but, as with one opening of his eye, he beholds
all things as they are, so with one inclination, or nod of his will he hath given a law, and
appointed all things.(144) If we can at one instant, and one look, see both light and colours,
and both the glass and the shadow in it and with one motion of our wills move towards the end
and the means—O, how much more may he, with one simple undivided act of his good will and pleasure,
pass a determination on all things, in their times and orders and in his own infinite and glorious
Being perceive them all with one look! How much consolation might redound from this to believing
souls! Hath the Lord appointed you to suffer persecution and tribulation here? Hath he carved
out such a lot unto you in this life? Then withal consider, that his majesty hath eternal glory
wrapt up in the same counsel from which thy afflictions proceed. Hath he made thy soul to melt
before him? Hath he convinced thee, and made thee to flee unto the city for refuge, and expect
salvation from no other but himself? Then know, that life eternal is in the bosom of that same
purpose which gave thee to believe this; though the one be born before the other, yet the decree
shall certainly bring forth the other. And for such souls as upon this vain presumption of
the infallibility of God’s purposes, think it needless to give diligence in religion, know,
that it is one mind and purpose that hath linked the end and the means together as a chain—and
therefore, if thou expectest to be saved according to election, thou must, according to the
same counsel, make thy calling home from sin to God sure.

Thirdly, What thing soever he hath purposed, he in due time applies to the performance of it,
and then the counsel of his will becomes the works of his hands, and there is an admirable
harmony and exact agreement between these two. All things come out of the womb of his eternal
decree, by the word of his power, even just fashioned and framed as their lineaments and draughts
were proportioned in the decree, nothing failing, nothing wanting, nothing exceeding. There
is nothing in the idea of his mind but it is expressed in the work of his hands. There are
no raw half wishes in God. Men have such imperfect desires—I would have, or do such a thing
if it were not, &c. He wavers not thus in suspense, but what he wills and desires, he wills
and desires indeed. He intends, doubtless, it shall be and what he intends he will execute
and bring to pass, therefore his will in due time applies almighty power to fulfil the desire
of it, and almighty power being put to work by his will, it cannot but work all things “according
to the counsel of his will,” and whatsoever his soul desireth, that he cannot but do, even
as he desires seeing he can do it. If he will do it, and can do it, what hinders him to work
and do? Know then that his commands and precepts to you signifying what is your duty they do
not so much signify what he desires or intends to work, or have done, as his approbation of
such a thing in itself to be your duty, and therefore though he have revealed his will concerning
our duty, though no obedience follow, yet is not his intention frustrated or disappointed,
for his commands to you say not what is his intention about it, but what is that which he approves
as good, and a duty obliging men. But whatsoever thing he purposes and intends should be, certainly
he will do it, and make it to be done. If it be a work of his own power alone, himself will
do it alone. If he require the concurrence of creatures to it,—as in all the works of providence,—then
he will effectually apply the creatures to his work, and not wait in suspense on their determination.
If he have appointed such an end to be attained by such means,—if he have a work to do by such
instruments,—then, without all doubt, he will apply the instruments when his time comes, and
will not wait on their concurrence. You see now strange things done, you wonder at them how
we are brought down from our excellency,—how our land is laid desolate by strangers,—how many
instruments of the Lord’s work are laid aside, how he lifts up a rod of indignation against
us, and is like to overturn even the foundations of our land,—all(145) were not in our mind
before, but they were in his mind from eternity, and therefore he is now working it. Believe,
then, that there is not a circumstance of all this business, not one point or jot of it, but
is even as it was framed and carved out of old. His present works are according to an ancient
pattern which he carries in his mind. All the measures and decrees of your affliction—all the
ounces and grain weights of your cup, were all weighed in the scales of his eternal counsel,
the instruments, the time, the manner, all that is in it. If he change instruments, that was
in his mind, if he change dispensations that was in his mind also, and seeing ye know by the
scriptures that a blessed end is appointed for the godly, that all things work for their good,
that all is subservient to the church’s welfare, seeing, I say, you know his purpose is such
as the scripture speaks, then believe his performance shall be exact accordingly, nothing deficient,
no joint, no sinew in all his work of providence, no line in all his book and volume of the
creature, but it was written in that ancient book of his eternal counsel, and first fashioned
in that, Psal. cxxxix. 16.

Then, lastly, His will is irresistible, his counsel shall stand, who can turn him from his
purpose and who can hinder him from performance? Therefore he attains his end in the highest
and most superlative degree of certainty and infallibility. Himself will not change his own
purpose, for why should he do it? If he change to the better, then it reflects on his wisdom,
if he change to the worse, it reflects both on his wisdom and goodness. Certainly he can see
no cause why he should change it. But as himself cannot change, so none can hinder his performance,
for what power, think you, shall it be, that may attempt that? Is it the power of men, of strong
men, of high men, of any men? No sure! for their breath is in their nostrils; they have no
power but as he breathes in them. If he keep in his breath, as it were, they perish. All nations
are as nothing before him and what power hath nothing? Is it devils may do it? No, for they
cannot, though they would; he chains them, he limits them. Is it good angels? They are powerful
indeed, but they neither can nor will resist his will. Let it be the whole university of the
creation,—suppose all their scattered force and virtue conjoined in one,—yet it is all but
finite; it amounts to no more, if you would eternally add unto it, but all victory and resistance
of this kind must be by a superior power, or at least by an equal. Therefore we may conclude
that there is no impediment or let, that can be put in his way, nothing can obstruct his purpose;
if all the world should conspire as one man to obstruct the performance of any of his promises
and purposes, they do but rage in vain. Like dogs barking at the moon, they shall be so far
from attaining their purpose, that his majesty shall disabuse them, so to speak, to his own
purpose. He shall apply them quite contrary to their own mind, to work out the counsel of his
mind. Here is the absolute King only worth the name of a King and Lord, whom all things in
heaven and earth obey at the first nod and beckoning to them! Hills, seas, mountains, rivers,
sun and moon and clouds, men and beasts, angels and devils,—all of them are acted, moved, and
inclined according to his pleasure, all of them are about his work indeed, as the result of
all in the end shall make it appear, and are servants at his command, going where he bids go,
and coming where he bids come, led by an invisible hand, though in the meantime they know it
not but think they are about their own business and applaud themselves for a time in it. Ducunt
volentem fata, nolentem trahunt.(146) Godly men who know his will and love it, are led by it
willingly, for they yield themselves up to his disposal, but wicked men, who have contrary
wills of their own, can gain no more by resisting, but to be drawn along with it.

Now to what purpose is all this spoken of God’s decrees and purposes, which he hath called
a secret belonging to himself? If his works and judgments be a great depth, and unsearchable,
sure his decrees are far more unsearchable, for it is the secret and hidden purpose of God,
which is the very depth of his way and judgment. But to what purpose is it all? I say, not
to inquire curiously into the particulars of them, but to profit by them. The Scripture holds
out to us the unchangeableness, freedom, extent, holiness, and wisdom of them, for our advantage,
and if this advantage be not reaped, we know them in vain. Not to burden your memory with many
particulars, we should labour to draw forth both instruction and consolation out of them. Instruction,
I say, in two things especially—to submit with reverence and respect to his majesty in all
his works and ways, and to trust in him who knows all his works, and will not change his mind.

There is nothing wherein I know Christians more deficient than in this point of submission,
which I take to be one of the chiefest and sweetest, though hardest duties of a Christian.
It is hardly to be found among men,—a thorough compliance of the soul to what his soul desires,
a real subjection of our spirits to his good will and pleasure. There is nothing so much blessed
in scripture as waiting on him, as yielding to him to be disposed upon,—“Blessed are all they
that wait on him.” Pride is the greatest opposite, and he opposes himself most to that, for
it is in its own nature most derogatory to the highness and majesty of God, which is his very
glory. Therefore submission is most acceptable to him, when the soul yields itself and its
will to him. He condescends far more to it, he cannot be an enemy to such a soul. Submission
to his majesty’s pleasure, is the very bowing down of the soul willingly to any thing he does
or commands,—whatever yoke he puts on, of duty or suffering, to take it on willingly, without
answering again, which is the great sin condemned in servants, to put the mouth in the dust,
and to keep silence, because he doth it—“I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou didst
it.” There is submission indeed,—silence of mind and mouth—a restraint put upon the spirit
to think nothing grudgingly of him for any thing he doth. It is certainly the greatest fault
of Christians and ground of many more, that ye do not look to God, but to creatures in any
thing that befalls you, therefore there are so frequent risings of spirits against his yoke,
frequent spurnings against it, as Ephraim, unaccustomed with the yoke. So do ye, and this it
is only makes it heavy and troublesome. If there were no more reason for it but your own gain,
it is the only way to peace and quietness. Learn this, I beseech you, to get your own wills
abandoned, and your spirits subdued to God, both in the point of duty and dispensation. If
duties commanded cross thy spirit—as certainly the reality and exercise of godliness must be
unpleasant to any nature—know what thou art called to, to quiet thy own will to him, to give
up thyself to his pleasure singly, without so much respect to thy own pleasure or gain. Learn
to obey him simply because he commands, though no profit redound to thee, and by this means
thou shalt in due time have more sweet peace and real gain, though thou intendedst it not.
And in case any dispensation cross thy mind, let not thy mind rise up against it. Do not fall
out with Providence, but commit thy way wholly to him, and let him do what he pleases in that.
Be thou minding thy duty. Be not anxious in that, but be diligent in this, and thou shalt be
the only gainer by it, besides, the honour redounds to him.

Then I would exhort you, from this ground, to trust in him. Seeing he alone is the absolute
Sovereign Lord of all things,—seeing he has passed a determination upon all things, and accordingly
they must be,—and seeing none can turn him from his way,—O then, Christians, learn to commit
yourselves to him in all things, both for this life and the life to come! Why are ye so vain
and foolish as to depend and hang upon poor, vain, depending creatures? Why do ye not forsake
yourselves? Why do ye not forsake all other things as empty shadows? Are not all created powers,
habits, gifts, graces, strength, riches, &c., like the idols in comparison of him, who can
neither do good, neither can they do ill? Cursed is he “that trusteth in man,” Jer. xvii. 5.
There needs no other curse than the very disappointment you shall meet withal. Consider, I
beseech you, that our God can do all things, whatever he pleases, in heaven and earth, and
that none can obstruct his pleasure. Blessed is that soul for whom the counsel of his will
is engaged. And it is engaged for all that trust in him. He can accomplish his good pleasure
in thy behalf, either without or against means; all impediments and thorns set in his way,
he can burn them up. You who are heirs of the promises, O know your privilege! What his soul
desireth, he doth even that, and what he hath seriously promised to you, he desires. If you
ask, who are heirs of the promises? I would answer, simply those and those only, who do own
them and challenge them, and cling to them for their life and salvation, those who seek the
inheritance only by the promise, and whose soul desires them and embraces them. O, if you would
observe how unlike ye are to God! Ye change often, ye turn often out of the way, but that were
not so ill if ye did not imagine him to be like yourselves, and it is unbelief which makes
him like to yourselves,—when your frame and tender disposition changes,—when presence and access
to God is removed. That is wrong, it speaks out a mortal creature indeed, but if it be so,
O do no more wrong! Do not, by your suspicions and jealousies and questionings of him, imagine
that he is like unto you and changed also. That is a double wrong and dishonour to his majesty.
Hath he not said, “I am the Lord, and change not.” “He is in one mind, who can turn him?” How
comes it then, that ye doubt of his love as oft as ye change? When ye are in a good temper,
ye think he loves you; when it is not so ye cannot believe but he is angry, and hates you.
Is not this to speak quite contrary to the word, that he is a God that changes—that he is not
in one mind, but now in one, and then in another, as oft as the inconstant wind of a soul’s
self pleasing humour turns about? Here is your rest and confidence, if you will be established,
not within yourselves,—not upon marks and signs within you, which ebb and flow as the sea,
and change as the moon,—but, upon his unchangeable nature and faithful promises. This we desire
to hold out to you all, as one ground for all. You would every one have some particular ground
in your own disposition and condition, and think it general doctrine only which layeth it not
home so, but believe it, I know no ground of real soul establishment, but general truths and
principles common to you all, and our business is not to lay any other foundation,—or more
foundations, according to your different conditions,—but to lay this one foundation, Christ
and God unchangeable, and to exhort every one of you to make that general foundation your own
in particular, by leaning to it, and building upon it, and clinging to it. All other are sandy
and ruinous.

Let us now, in this sad time, press consolation from this. The Lord’s hand is in all this.
It is immediate in every dispensation, and it is only carnal mindedness that cannot see him
stretching out his hand to every man, with his own portion of affliction. Know this one thing,
that God is in one mind, for all these many ways and judgments, he is in one mind,—to gather
the saints, to build up the Church, the body of Christ. This is his end—all other businesses
are in the by,(148) and subservient to this. Therefore he will change it as he pleases, but
his great purpose of good to his people, all the world cannot hinder. Let us then establish
our souls in this consideration, all is clear above, albeit cloudy below, all is calm in heaven,
albeit tempestuous here upon earth. There is no confusion, no disorder in his mind. Though
we think the world out of course, and that all things reel about with confusion, he hath one
mind in it, and who can turn him? And that mind is good to them that trust in him and therefore,
who can turn away our good? Let men consult and imagine what they please,—let them pass votes
and decrees what to do with his people,—yet it is all to no purpose, for there is a counsel
above, an older counsel which must stand and take place in all generations. If men’s conclusions
be not according to the counsel of his will, they are but imaginary dreams, like the fancies
of a distracted person, who imagining himself a king, sits down on the throne, and gives out
decrees and ordinances. May not he who sits in heaven laugh at the foolishness and madness
of men who act in all things as if they had no dependence on him, and go about their business
as if it were not contrived already? It is a ridiculous thing for men to order their business,
and settle their own conclusions, without once minding One above them, who hath not only a
negative, but an affirmative vote in all things. But yet withal we should mind that of James,
“if the Lord will, and go about all things even the most probable, with submission to his will
and pleasure.” And therefore, when men go without their bounds either in fear of danger, or
joy conceived in successes,—ridetque, si mortalis ultra fas trepidet, &c.,—Excess of fear,
excess of hope, excess of joy in these outward things, is, as it were ridiculous to him, who
hath all these things appointed with him. To him be praise and glory.

                               Lecture XV.

Of Predestination

    Eph. i. 11.—“In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being
    predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all
    things after the counsel of his own will.”—Rom. ix. As man was the chief of the works of his hands so we may,
according to the Scriptures, conceive that he was chiefly minded in the
counsels of his heart. And that, as in the execution of his purpose in
creating the world, man had the pre-eminence assigned unto him, and all
seemed subordinate unto him, so in the Lord’s purposes concerning the
world, his purpose about man has the pre-eminence. He, indeed, has
resolved to declare the glory of his name in this world, therefore the
heavens and the firmament are made preachers of that glory, Psal. xix. 1,
2, &c. But in a special manner, his majesty’s glorious name is manifested
in man, and about man. He hath set man, as it were, in the centre or midst
of the creation, that all the creatures might direct or bring in their
praises unto him, to be offered up in his and their name, to the Lord
their Maker, by him, as the common mouth of the world, and the Lord hath
chosen this creature above all the creatures, for the more solemn and
glorious declaration of himself in his special properties. Therefore, we
should gather our thoughts in this business, to hear from the Lord what
his thoughts are towards us, for, certainly, the right understanding of
his everlasting counsel touching the eternal state of man, is of singular
virtue to conform us to the praise of his name, and establish us in faith
and confidence. Predestination is a mystery, indeed, into which we should
not curiously and boldly inquire beyond what is revealed, for then a soul
must needs lose itself in that depth of wisdom, and perish in the search
of unsearchableness. And thus the word speaks in Scripture of this
subject, intimating to us, that it is rather to be admired than conceived,
and that there ought to be some ignorance of these secrets, which,
conjoined with faith and reverence, is more learned than any curious
knowledge. But withal, we must open our eyes upon so much light as God
reveals of these secrets, knowing that the light of the word is a saving,
refreshing light, not confounding, as is his inaccessible light of secret
glory. As far as it pleaseth his majesty to open his mouth, let us not
close our ears, but open them also to his instruction, knowing, that as he
will withhold no necessary thing for our salvation, so he will reveal
nothing but what is profitable. This is the best bond of sobriety and
humble wisdom, to learn what he teacheth us, but when he makes an end of
teaching, to desire no more learning. It is humility to seek no more, and
it is true wisdom to be content with no less.

There is much weakness in our conceiving of divine things. We shape and form them in our minds
according to a mould of our own experience or invention, and cannot conceive of them as they
are in themselves. If we should speak properly, there are not counsels and purposes in God,
but one entire counsel and resolution concerning all thing which are in time, by which he hath
disposed all in their several times, seasons, conditions, and orders. But because we have many
thoughts, about many things, so we cannot well conceive of God but in likeness to ourselves,
and therefore, the Scripture, condescending to our weakness, speaks so. “How many are thy precious
thoughts towards me,” saith David, and yet indeed, there is but one thought of him and us and
all, which one thought is of so much virtue, that it is equivalent to an infinite number of
thoughts concerning infinite objects. The Lord hath from everlasting conceived one purpose
of manifesting his own glory in such several ways and this is the head spring of all that befalls
creatures, men, and angels. But because, in the execution of this purpose there is a certain
order and succession, and variety, therefore men do ordinarily fancy such or such a frame and
order in the Lord’s mind and purpose. This much we may indeed lawfully conceive of his decree,
that there is an exact correspondence and suitableness between his majesty’s purpose and execution,
and that he is a wise Lord, “wonderful in counsel and excellent in working,” having some great
plot and design before his eyes, which he intends to effect, and which is, as it were, the
great light and sun of this firmament, unto which, by that same wonderful counsel, all other
things are subordinate, and so in the working it shall appear exactly as his counsel did delineate
and contrive it.

There is no man so empty or shallow, but he hath some great design and purpose which he chiefly
aims at; shall we not then conceive, that the Lord, who instructs every man to this discretion,
and teaches him, (Isa. xxviii. 26,) is himself wise in his counsel, and hath some grand project
before him in all this fabric of the world, and the upholding of it since it was made? Certainly
he hath. And if you ask what it is, the wise man will teach you in general—“He made all things
for himself, yea, even the wicked for the day of evil,” Prov. xvi. 4. Here, then, is his great
design and purpose—to glorify himself,—to manifest his own name to men and angels. Now, his
name comprehends wisdom, goodness, power, mercy, and justice. The first three he declares in
all the works of his hands. All are well done and wisely done. The excellency of the work shows
the wonderful counsellor and the wise contriver. The goodness of any creature in its kind,
declares the inexhausted spring of a self-being from whom it proceeds, and the bringing all
these out of nothing, and upholding them, is a glorious declaration of his power. But yet,
in all the works of his hands, there is nothing found to manifest his glorious mercy and justice,
upon which are the flower and garland of his attributes, and unto which wisdom and power seem
to be subservient. Therefore his majesty, in that one entire purpose of his own glory, resolves
to manifest his wrath and his mercy upon men and angels, subjects capable of it, which two
attributes are as the poles about which all the wheels of election and reprobation turn as
you see in that place, Rom. ix. 22, 23. Let this then be established as the end of all his
works, as it is designed in his counsel, and nothing else. It is not the creature, nor any
thing in the creature, which is first in his mind, but himself, and therefore of him, and for
him, are all things. Here they have their rise, and thither they return, even to the ocean
of God’s eternal glory, from whence all did spring.

The right establishing of this will help us to conceive aright of his counsel of predestination.
It is a common cavil of carnal reason: how can the Lord reject so many persons, and fore-ordain
them to destruction? It seems most contrary to his goodness and wisdom, to have such an end
of eternal predestination before him, in the creating of so many, to make men for nothing,
but to damn them? Here carnal reason, which is enmity to God, triumphs, but consider, I say,
that this is not the Lord’s end and chief design, to destroy men. Even as it is not his majesty’s
first look, or furthest reach, to give unto others eternal life, so it is not his prime intent
to sink them into eternal death, as if that were his pleasure and delight. No, indeed! Neither
is the creature’s happiness nor its misery that which first moves him, or is most desired of
him, but himself only, and he cannot move out of himself to any business, but he must return
it unto himself. Therefore the wise preacher expresses it well, “He made all for himself, even
the wicked for the day of evil.” It was not his great end of creating wicked men to damn them,
or creating righteous men to save them, but both are for a further and higher end,—for himself
and his own glory.

All seem to agree about this, that the great end of all the Lord’s counsels and decrees is
his own glory, to be manifested on men and angels, and that this must be first in his mind;
not that there is first or last with him, but to speak after the manner of men. If he had many
thoughts, as we have, this would be his first thought and in this one purpose this end is chiefly
aimed at, and all other things are by the Lord’s counsel subordinate to this, as means to compass
that. But as concerning the order of these means, and consequently of his majesty’s purpose
about them, men, by examining his majesty according to the creature’s rules, or according to
sense, bring him down far below his own infinite greatness. Some conceive that that was first,
as it were, in his mind which is first done. Looking upon the execution of his purpose in the
works of his power, they imagine, that as he first created man righteous, so this was his first
thought concerning man, to create man for the glory of his goodness and power, without any
particular determination as yet of his end. And I conceive, this is the thought of the multitude
of people. They think God was disappointed in his work, when they hear he created such a glorious
creature that is now become so miserable. They cannot believe that his majesty had all this
sin and misery determined with him when he purposed to create him, but look upon the emergent
of man’s fall into sin and misery as a surprisal of his majesty,—as if he had meant another
thing in creating him, and so was, upon this occasion of man’s sin, driven to a new consultation
about the helping of the business, and making the best out of it that might be. Thus “through
wisdom, the world knows not God.” They think God altogether like themselves, and so liken him
to the builder of a house, who set nothing before him in doing so, but to build it after that
manner for his own ends, but then being surprised with the fall and ruin of it, takes a new
advisement, and builds it up again upon another and a surer foundation. But because they cannot
say, that God takes any new advisements in time, but must confess that all his counsels are
everlasting concerning all the works of his hands, therefore they bring in foreknowledge to
smooth their irreligious conceit of God, as if the Lord, upon his purpose of creating man,
had foreseen what should befall him, and so purposed to permit it to be so, that out of it
he might erect some glorious fabric of mercy and justice upon the ruins of man. And that little
or nothing may be left to the absolute sovereign will of God, to which the Scripture ascribes
all things, they must again imagine, that upon his purpose of sending Christ to save sinners,
he is yet undetermined about the particular end of particular men, but watches on the tower
of foreknowledge to espy what they will do, whether men will believe on his Son or not, whether
they will persevere in faith or not, and according to his observation of their doings, so he
applies his own will to carve out their reward or portion of life or death. These are even
the thoughts which are inbred in your breasts by nature. That which the learned call Arminianism
is nothing else but the carnal reason of men’s hearts, which is enmity to God. It is that very
disputation which Paul in this chapter exclaims against, “Who art thou, O man, that disputest?”

But certainly, all this contrivance is nothing beseeming the wisdom or sovereignty of God,
but reflects upon both: upon his wisdom, that he should have thoughts of creating the most
noble of his creatures, and yet be in suspense about the end of the creature, and have that
in uncertainty what way his glory shall indeed be manifested by it. Is it not the first and
chief thought of every wise man, what he intends and aims at in his work, and according to
the measure and reach of his wisdom, so he reaches further in his end and purpose? Shall we
then conceive the only wise God so far to have mistaken himself, as to do that which no wise
man would do? He who is of such an infinite reach of wisdom and understanding, to fall upon
the thoughts of making such an excellent creature, and yet to lie in suspense within himself
about the eternal estate of it, and to be in a waiting posture what way his glory should be
manifested by it; whether in a way of simple goodness only, or in a way of justice, or in a
way of mercy, till he should foresee, off the tower of foreknowledge, how that creature should
behave itself. Our text speaks not thus; for in the place, (Eph. i.) we have the Lord, in his
eternal purpose, carving out to such and such particular persons “an inheritance,” and “adoption
of children,” for that great end “of the glory of his grace,” ver. 11, and 5, 6. And predestination
falls out, not according to our carriage, but according to the purpose of him who “works all
things” that he works, “after the counsel of his own will,” without consulting our will. And
if you inquire what are these “all things,” certainly we must take it simply for all things
that are at all, or have any real being: his power, his hand must be in it, and that according
to his own counsel, without respect had to the creature’s will, according to his own good pleasure,
ver. 5, 11. He had no sooner a thought of working and making man, but this purpose was in it,
to make such men to the praise of his glorious grace, and to fore-ordain them to an inheritance,
and others to make or fit them for destruction, as the text, Rom. ix. 22, bears. Herein the
great and unsearchable wisdom of God appears to be a great depth, that when he hath a thought
of making such a vessel, he hath this purpose in the bosom of it, what use it shall be for,
whether for honour or dishonour; and accordingly, in his counsel, he prepares it either to
glory or destruction, and in time makes it fit for its use, either by sin or grace. Here is
the depth that cannot be sounded by mortal men. “O the depth of the riches both of his wisdom
and knowledge! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!” The whole
tenor of the Scriptures shows that his majesty was not surprised and taken at unawares by Adam’s
fall, but that it fell out according to the determinate counsel of his will. If he knew it,
and suffered it to be, certainly he permitted it, because he willed it should be so; and why
may he not determine that in his holy counsel which his wisdom can disabuse to the most glorious
end that can be? Why may not he decree such a fall, who out of man’s ruins can erect such a
glorious throne for his grace and justice to triumph into? It is more for the glory of his
infinite wisdom, to bring good, and such a good out of evil, than only to permit that good
should be.

Then such doctrine is repugnant to the Lord’s absolute power and sovereignty, which is Paul’s
sanctuary, whither he flies unto as a sure refuge, from the stroke or blast of carnal reason.
21. Hath not the Lord more absolute dominion over us, than the potter hath over the clay, for
the potter made not the clay, but the Lord hath made us of nothing? so that simply and absolutely
we are his, and not our own, and so he hath an absolute right to make any use of us he pleases,
without consulting our wills and deservings. Can any man quarrel him for preparing him to destruction,
seeing he owes nothing to any man, but may do with his own what he pleases? What if God, willing
to make known his power, and justice, and wrath, have fitted and prepared some vessels for
destruction, with which in time he bears much, and forbears long, using much patience towards
them, ver. 22. Can any man challenge him for it? And what if God, willing to make known the
riches of his grace, have prepared some vessels to glory, shall any man’s eye be evil because
he is good? ver. 23. Shall man be left to be his own disposer, and the shaper of his own fortune?
Sure it was not so with Esau and Jacob: they were alike in the womb. If there was any prerogative,
Esau the eldest had it,—they had done neither good nor evil. What difference was then between
them to cast the balance of his will? Can you imagine any? Indeed carnal reason will say that
God foreknew what they would do, and so he chose or rejected them. But, why doth not the apostle
answer thereunto that objection of unrighteousness in God? ver. 14. It had been ready and plain.
But rather he opposes the will and calling of God, to all works past or to come. He gives no
answer but this, “he will have mercy because he will have mercy;” that is the supreme rule
of righteousness, and hitherto must we flee, as the surest anchor of our hope and stability.
Our salvation depends not on our willing or running, on our resolving or doing, but upon this
primitive good pleasure and will of God, on which hangs our willing and running and obtaining.
It is certainly an unorderly order, to flee unto that in men, for the cause of God’s eternal
counsels, which only flows from his eternal counsel, Eph. i. 4. Hath he chosen us because he
did foreknow that we would be holy, and without blame, as men think? Or hath he not rather
chosen us to be holy and without blame? He cannot behold any good or evil in the creatures,
till his will pass a sentence upon it; for from whence should it come?

Seeing then this order and contrivance of God’s purpose is but feigned, it seems to some that
the very contrary method were more suitable even to the rules of wisdom. You know what is first
in men’s intention is last in execution. The end is first in their mind, then the means to
compass that end. But in practice again, men fall first upon the means, and by them come at
length to attain their end; therefore those who would have that first, as it were, in God’s
mind, which he doth first, do even cross common rules of reason in human affairs. It would
seem then, say some, that this method might do well; that what is last in his execution, was
first in his purpose, and by him intended as the end of what he doth first, and so some do
rank his decrees; that he had first a thought of glorifying man, and to attain this end he
purposed to give him grace, and for this purpose to suffer him to fall, and for all to create
him. But we must not look thus upon it either. It were a foolish and ridiculous counsel, unbeseeming
the poor wisdom of man, to purpose the glorifying of man whom he had not yet determined to
create. Therefore we should always have it in our mind that the great end and project of all
is the glory of his mercy and justice upon men; and this we may conceive is first in order,
neither men’s life nor death, but God’s glory to be manifested upon men. Now, to attain this
glorious end, with one inclination or determination of his will, not to be distinguished or
severed, he condescends upon all that is done in time, as one complete and entire mean of glorifying
himself, so that one of them is not before another in his mind, but altogether. For attaining
this, he purposes to create man. He ordains the fall of all men into a state of sin and misery;
and some of those, upon whom he had resolved to show his mercy, he gives them to Christ to
be redeemed, and restored by grace; others, he fore-ordains them to destruction; and all this
at once, without any such order as we imagine. Now though he intend all this at once and together,
yet it doth not hence follow that all these must be executed together. As when a man intends
to build a house for his own accommodation, there are many things in the house upon which he
hath not several purposes; but yet they must be severally, and in some order done. First the
foundation laid; then the walls raised; then the roof put on; yet he did not intend the foundation
to be for the walls, or the walls for the roof, but altogether for himself. Even so the Lord
purposes to glorify his mercy and justice upon a certain number of persons, and for this end
to give them a being, to govern their falling into misery, to raise some out of it by a Mediator,
and to leave some into it to destruction; and all this as one entire mean to illustrate his
glorious mercy and justice. But these things themselves must be done not all at once, but one
before another, either as their own nature requires, or as he pleases. The very nature of the
thing requires that man be created before he sin; that he sin and fall before a Mediator suffer
for his sin; that he have a being before he have a glorious being; and that he have a sinful
and miserable being, before he have this glorious and gracious being which may manifest the
grace and mercy of God. But it is the pleasure of the Lord that determines in what time and
order Christ shall suffer, either before or after the conversion of sinners, or whether sinners
shall be presently instated in glory, and perfectly delivered from all sin at their first conversion,
or only in part during this life.

Seeing then this was his majesty’s purpose, to make so many vessels of honour, upon whom he
might glorify the riches of his grace and mercy; and so many “vessels of wrath,” upon whom
he might show the power of his anger; you may think what needed all this business of man’s
redemption. Might not God have either preserved so many as he had appointed to glory from falling
into sin and misery; or at least have freely pardoned their sin without any satisfaction; and
out of the exceeding riches of his mercy and power, have as well not imputed sin to them at
all, as imputed their sins to Christ, who was not guilty? What needed his giving so many to
the Son, and the Son’s receiving them? What needed these mysteries of incarnation, of redemption,
seeing he might have done all this simply without so much pains and expense? Why did he choose
this way? Indeed, that is the wonder; and if there were no more end for it, but to confound
mortality that dare ask him what he doth, it is enough. Should he be called down to the bar
of human reason, to give an account of his matters? “Who hath known the mind of the Lord, or,
being his counsellor, hath taught him,” that is in the depths of his unsearchable understanding,
that he chose to go this round, and to compass his end by such a strange circuit of means,
when he might have done it simply and directly without so much pains? Yet it is not so hidden,
but he hath revealed as much as may satisfy or silence all flesh. For we must consider, that
his great project is not simply to manifest the glory of his goodness, but of his gracious
and merciful goodness, the most tender and excellent of all; and therefore man must be miserable,
sinful, and vile, that the riches of his grace may appear in choosing and saving such persons.
But that it may appear also how excellent he could make man, and how vain all created perfections
are, being left to themselves, therefore he first made man righteous, and being fallen into
sin and misery, he might straightway have restored him without more ado. But his purpose was
to give an exact demonstration of mercy, tempered and mixed with justice; and therefore he
finds out the satisfaction in his eternal counsel, “I have found a ransom.” And so he chooses
Jesus Christ to be the head of these chosen souls, in whom they might be again restored unto
eternal life. And these souls, he, in his everlasting purpose, gives over to the Son to be
redeemed, and these the Son receives. And thus the glory of mercy and justice shines most brightly,
yea, more brightly, than if he had at first pardoned. O how doth his love and mercy appear,
that he will transfer our sins upon his holy Son, and accept that redemption for us; and his
justice, that a redemption and price he must have, even from his Son, when once he comes in
the stead of sinners! And in this point do the songs of eternity concentre.

                               Lecture XVI.

Of Predestination

    Rom. ix. The very consideration of God’s infinite wisdom
might alone suffice to restrain our limited thoughts, and serve to sober
our minds with the challenge of our own ignorance and darkness; yet the
vain and wicked mind of man will needs quarrel with God, and enter the
lists of disputation with him, about his righteousness and wisdom in the
counsel of election and reprobation: “But, O man, who art thou that
repliest against God, or disputest?” ver. 20. This is a thing not to be
disputed, but believed; and if ye will believe no more than ye can
comprehend by sense or reason, then ye give his majesty no more credit
than to weak mortal man. Whatever secret thoughts do rise up in thy heart
when thou hearest of God’s foreordaining men to eternal life, without
previous foresight or consideration of their doings, and preparing men to
eternal wrath, for the praise of his justice, without previous
consideration of their deservings, and passing a definitive sentence upon
the end of all men, before they do either good or evil; whenever any
secret surmises rise in thy heart against this, learn to answer thus;
enter not the lists of disputation with corrupt reason, but put in this
bridle of the fear of God’s greatness, and the consciousness of thy own
baseness, and labour to restrain thy undaunted and wild mind by it. Ponder
that well, who thou art who disputest; who God is, against whom thou
disputest—and if thou have spoken once, thou wilt speak no more—what thou
art, who is as clay formed out of nothing; what he is, who is the former;
and hath not the potter power over the clay? Consider but how great
wickedness it is so much as to question him, or ask an account of his
matters. After you have found his will to be the cause of all things, then
to inquire farther into a cause of his will, which is alone the self-rule
of righteousness, is to seek something above his will, and to reduce his
majesty into the order of creatures. It is most abominable usurpation and
sacrilege, for it both robs him of his royal prerogative, and instates the
base footstool into his throne; but know, that certainly God will overcome
when he is judged, Psal. i. 6. If thou judge him, he will condemn thee; if
thou oppugn his absolute and holy decrees, he will hold thee fast bound by
them to thy condemnation; he needs no other defence but to call out thy
own conscience against thee, and bind thee over to destruction. Therefore,
as one saith well, “Let the rashness of men be restrained from seeking
that which is not, lest peradventure they find that which is.” Seek not a
reason of his purposes, lest peradventure thou find thy own death and
damnation infolded in them.

Paul mentions two objections of carnal and fleshly wisdom against this doctrine of election
and reprobation, which indeed contain the sum of all that is vented and invented even to this
day, to defile the spotless truth of God. All the whisperings of men tend to one of these two,—either
to justify themselves, or to accuse God of unrighteousness; and shall any do it and be guiltless?
I confess, some oppose this doctrine, not so much out of an intention of accusing God, as out
of a preposterous and ignorant zeal for God; even as Job’s friends did speak much for God.
Nay, but it was not well spoken, they did but speak wickedly for him. Some speak much to the
defence of his righteousness and holiness, and, under pretence of that plea, make it inconsistent
with these to fore-ordain to life or death without the foresight of their carriage; but shall
they speak wickedly for God, or will he accept their person? He who looks into the secrets
of the heart, knows the rise and bottom of such defences and apologies for his holiness to
be partly self-love, partly narrow and limited thoughts of him, drawing him down to the determinations
of his own greatest enemy, carnal reason. Since men will ascribe to him no righteousness, but
such an one of their own shaping, and conformed to their own model, do they not indeed rob
him of his holiness and righteousness?

I find two or three objections which may be reduced to this head. First, it seems unrighteousness
with God, to predestinate men to eternal death, without their own evil deserving, or any forethought
of it,—that before any man had a being, God should have been in his counsel fitting so many
to destruction. Is it not a strange mocking of the creatures, to punish them for that sin and
corruption, unto which by his eternal counsel they were fore-ordained? This is even that which
Paul objects to himself, “Is there unrighteousness with God?” Is it not unrighteousness to
hate Esau before he deserves it? Is he not unrighteous, to adjudge him to death before he do
evil? ver. 14. Let Paul answer for us, “God forbid!” Why, there needs no more answer, but all
thoughts or words which may in the least reflect upon his holiness are abomination. Though
we could not tell how it is righteous and holy with him to do it, yet this we must hold, that
it is. It is his own property to comprehend the reason of his counsels; it is our duty to believe
what he reveals of them, without farther inquiry. He tells us, that thus it is clearly in this
chapter; this far then we must believe. He tells us not how it is; then farther we should not
desire to learn. God, in keeping silence of that, may put us to silence, and make us conceive
that there is a depth to be admired, not sounded. Yet he goeth a little farther, and indeed
as high as can be, to God’s will—“He hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will he hardeneth.”
Now, farther he cannot go, for there is nothing above this. We may descend from this but we
cannot ascend, or rise above it. But is this any answer to the argument? A sophister could
press it further, and take advantage from that very ground—What! is not this to establish a
mere tyranny in the Lord, that he doeth all things of mere will and pleasure, distributes rewards
and punishments without previous consideration of men’s carriage? But here we must stand, and
go no farther than the scriptures walk with us. Whatever reasons or causes may be assigned,
yet certainly we must at length come up hither. All things are, because he so willed, and why
willed we should not ask a reason, because his will is supreme reason, and the very self rule
of all righteousness. Therefore if we once know his will, we should presently conclude that
it is most righteous and holy. If that evasion of the foreknowledge of men’s sins and impenitency
had been found solid, certainly Paul would have answered so, and not have had his refuge to
the absolute will and pleasure of God, which seem to perplex it more. But he knew well that
there could nothing of that kind, whether good or evil, either actually be without his will,
or be to come without the determination of the same will, and so could not be foreseen without
the counsel of his will upon it and therefore it had been but a poor shift to have refuge to
that starting hole of foreknowledge, out of which he must presently flee to the will and pleasure
of God, and so he betakes him straightway to that he must hold at, and opposes that will to
man’s doings. “It is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that showeth
mercy.” If he had meant only that Jacob and Esau had actually done neither good or evil, he
needed not return to the sanctuary of God’s will, for still it might be said, it is of him
that runs and wills and not of God’s will as the first original, because their good and evil
foreseen did move him to such love and hatred. It is all alike of works of men, whether these
works be present or to come; therefore I would advise every one of you, whatever ye conceive
of his judgment or mercy, if he have showed mercy to you, O then rest not in thyself, but arise
and ascend till thou come to the height of his eternal free purpose! And if thou conceive the
sin, and misery, and judgment, thou mayest go up also to his holy counsels, for the glory of
his name, and silence thyself with them. But it shall be most expedient for thee in the thought
of thy miseries, to return always within, and search the corruption of thy nature, which may
alone make thee hateful enough to God. If thou search thy own conscience, it will stop thy
mouth, and make thee guilty before God. Let not the thought of his eternal counsels diminish
the conviction of thy guilt, or the hatred of thyself for sin and corruption, but dwell more
constantly upon this, because thou art called and commanded so to do. One thing remains fixed,—though
he hath fore-ordained man to death, yet none shall be damned till his conscience be forced
to say, that he is worthy of it a thousand times.

There is another whispering and suggestion of the wicked hearts of men against the predestination
of God, which insinuates that God is an accepter of persons, and so accuses him of partial
and unrighteous dealing, because he deals not equally with all men. Do ye not say this within
yourselves—If he find all guilty, why does he not punish all? Why does he spare some? And if
ye look upon all men in his first and primitive thought of them, as neither doing good nor
evil, why does he not have mercy on all? But is thine eye evil because he is good? May he not
do with his own as he pleases? Because he is merciful to some souls, shall men be displeased,
and do well to be angry? Or, because he, of his own free grace, extends it, shall he be bound
by a rule to do so with all? Is not he both just and merciful, and is it not meet that both
be showed forth? If he punish thee, thou canst not complain, for thou deservest it, if he show
mercy, why should any quarrel, for it is free and undeserved grace. By saving some, he shows
his grace; by destroying others, he shows what all deserve. God is so far from being an accepter
of persons according to their qualifications and conditions, that he finds nothing in any creature
to cast the balance of his choice. If he did choose men for their works’ sake, or outward privileges,
and refuse others for the want of these, then it might be charged on him, but he rather goes
over all these, nay, he finds none of these. In his first view of men he beholds them all alike,
and nothing to determine his mind to one more than another, so that his choice proceedeth wholly
from within his own breast,—“I will have mercy on whom I will.” But then, thirdly, Our hearts
object against the righteousness of God, that this fatal chain of predestination overturns
all exhortations and persuasions to godliness, all care and diligence in well-doing. For thus
do many profane souls conceive—If he be in one mind, who can turn him? Then, what need I pray,
since he has already determined what shall be, and what shall become of me? His purpose will
take effect whether I pray or pray not; my prayer will not make him change his mind, and if
it be in his mind he will do it, if he hath appointed to save us, saved we shall be, live as
we list; if he hath appointed us to death, die we must, live as we can. Therefore men, in this
desperate estate, throw themselves headlong into all manner of iniquity, and that with quietness
and peace. Thus do many souls perish upon the stumbling-stone laid in Zion, and wrest the truths
and counsels of God to their own destruction, even quite contrary to their true intent and
meaning. Paul, (Eph. i. 4 ) speaks another language—“He hath chosen us in him,—that we should
be holy and without blame.” His eternal counsel of life is so far from loosing the reins to
men’s lusts, that it is the only certain foundation of holiness; it is the very spring and
fountain from whence our sanctification flows by an infallible course. This chain of God’s
counsels concerning us, hath also linked together the end and the means,—glory and grace,—happiness
and holiness,—that there is no destroying of them. Without holiness it is impossible to see
God, so that those who expect the one without any desire of, and endeavour after the other,
they are upon a vain attempt to loose the links of this eternal chain. It is the only eternal
choosing love of God, which separated so many souls from the common misery of men. It is that
only which in time doth appear, and rise as it were from under ground, in the streams or fruits
of sanctification. And if the ordinance of life stand, so shall the ordinance of fruits, John
xv. 16, Eph. ii. 10. If he hath appointed thee to life, it is certain he has also ordained
thee to fruits, and chosen thee to be holy; so that whatever soul casts by the study of this,
there is too gross a brand of perdition upon its forehead. It is true, all is already determined
with him, and he is incapable of any change, or “shadow of turning.” Nothing then wants, but
he is in one mind about it, and thy prayer cannot turn him. Yet a godly soul will pray with
more confidence, because it knows that as he hath determined upon all its wants and receipts,
so he hath appointed this to be the very way of obtaining what it wants. This is the way of
familiarity and grace. He takes with his own to make them call, and he performs his purpose
in answer to their cry. But suppose there were nothing to be expected by prayer, yet I say,
that is not the thing thou shouldst look to, but what is required of thee, as thy duty, to
do that simply out of regard to his majesty, though thou shouldst never profit by it. This
is true obedience, to serve him for his own pleasure, though we had no expectation of advantage
by it. Certainly he doth not require thy supplications for this end, to move him, and incline
his affections toward thee, but rather as a testimony of thy homage and subjection to him;
therefore, though they cannot make him of another mind than he is, or hasten performance before
his purposed time—so that in reality they have no influence upon him—yet in praying, and praying
diligently, thou declarest thy obligation to him, and respect to his majesty, which is all
thou hast to look to, committing the event solely to his good pleasure.

The second objection Paul mentions, tends to justify men. “Why then doth he yet find fault?
For who hath resisted his will?” Since by his will he hath chained us with an inevitable necessity
to sin, what can we do? Men cannot wrestle with him, why then doth he condemn and accuse them?
“But who art thou, O man, who disputest against God?” As if Paul had said, thou art a man,
and so I am, why then lookest thou for an answer from me? Let us rather both consider whom
we speak of, whom thou accusest, and whom I defend. It is God; what art thou then to charge
him, or what am I so to clear him? Believing ignorance is better than presumptuous knowledge,
especially in those forbidden secrets in which it is more concerning to be ignorant with faith
and admiration, than to know with presumption. Dispute thou, O man, I will wonder, reply thou,
I will believe! Doth it become thee, the clay, to speak so to thy Former, “Why hast thou made
me thus?” Let the consideration of the absolute right and dominion of God over us,—more than
any creature hath over another, yea, or over themselves,—let that restrain us, and keep us
within bounds. He may do with us what he pleaseth, for his own honour and praise, but it is
his will that we should leave all the blame to ourselves, and rather behold the evident cause
of our destruction in our sin, which is nearer us, than to search into a secret and incomprehensible
cause in God’s counsel.

                              Lecture XVII.

Of Creation

    Heb. xi. “In the beginning God
    created the heaven and the earth.”

We are come down from the Lord’s purposes and decrees to the execution of them, which is partly
in the works of creation and partly in the works of providence. The Lord having resolved upon
it to manifest his own glory did in that due and predeterminate time apply his own power to
this business. Having in great wisdom conceived a frame of the world in his mind from all eternity,
he at length brings it forth, and makes it visible. We shall not insist upon the particular
story of it, as it is set down in general, but only point at some things for our instruction.

First, Ye see who is the Maker of all things, of whom all things visible and invisible are—it
is God. And by this he useth to distinguish himself from idols and the vanities of the nations,
that he is that self being who gave all things a being, who made the heavens and the earth.
This is even the most glorious manifestation of an invisible and eternal Being. These things
that are made, show him forth. If a man were travelling into a far country, and wandered into
a wilderness where he could see no inhabitants but only houses, villages and cities built,
he would straightway conceive there hath been some workmen at this; this hath not been done
casually but by the art of some reasonable creatures. How much more may we conceive when we
look on the fabric of this world—how the heavens are stretched out for a tent to cover them
that dwell on the earth, and the earth settled and established as a firm foundation for men
and living creatures to abide on—how all are done in wisdom and discretion—we cannot but straightway
imagine that there must be some curious and wise contriver, and mighty creator of these things.
It is here said “Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed.” Indeed faith only
in the word of God, gives true and distinct understanding of it. Innumerable have been the
wanderings and mistakes of the wise of the world about this matter, wanting this lamp and light
of the word of God, which alone gives a true and perfect account of this thing. Many strange
dotages and fancies have they fallen into; yet certain it is that there is so much of the glory
of God engraven without on the creature, and so much reason imprinted on the souls of men within,
that, if it were not for that judicial plague of the Lord’s darkening their understandings,
who do not glorify him in as far as they know him, no man could seriously and soberly consider
on the visible world, but he would be constrained to conceive an invisible God. Would not every
one think within himself—all these things, so excellent as they are, cannot be out of chance,
neither could they make themselves, so that of necessity they must owe what they are to something
beside themselves? And of this it is certain, that it cannot have its original from any other
thing, else there should be no end; therefore it must be some Supreme Being, that is from no
other, and of which are all things.

But next, consider when these things were made—“In the beginning.” And what beginning is that?
Certainly the beginning of the creation, and of time, to exclude eternity. Whatever may be
said of that subtilty, that God might have created the world from all eternity, for it appears,
even in created things, that there is no necessity of the precedent existence of the cause,
since in the same instant that many things are brought into being, in the same do they bring
forth their effects, as the sun in the first instant of its creation did illuminate, yet certainly
we believe, from the word of the Lord, that the world is actually but of a few thousand years
standing. Six are not yet run out since the first creating word was spoken, and since the Spirit
of the Lord moved upon the waters. And this we know also, that if it had pleased his majesty,
he might have created the world many thousand years before that so that it might have been
at this day of ten hundred times ten thousand years standing, and he might have given it as
many years as there are numbers of men and angels, beasts yea, and pickles(149) of sand upon
the sea coast. But it was his good pleasure that that very point of time in which it was created
should be the beginning of time; and from that he gives us a history of the world, upon which
the church of God may rest, and so seek no other god but the God that made these heavens and earth.

This will not satisfy the ungodly curiosity and vanity of men’s spirits, who will reproach
the Maker for not applying sooner to his work, and sitting idle such an immeasurable space
of eternity. Men wonder what he could be doing all that time, if we may call it time which
hath no beginning, and how he was employed. I beseech you, restrain such thoughts in you with
the fear of his glorious and incomprehensible majesty who gives no account of his matters!
It is enough that this is his good pleasure to begin then, and he conceals his reasons, to
prove the sobriety of our faith, that all men may learn an absolute and simple stooping to
his majesty’s pleasure. Remember that which a godly man answered some wanton curious wit, who
in scorn demanded the same of him—“He was preparing hell for curious and proud fools,” said
he. Let us then keep our hearts as with a bridle, and repress their boundless wanderings within
bounds, lest we, by looking upward, before the beginning of the world, to see what God was
doing, fall headlong into the eternal pit of destruction, and into the hands of the living
God. God hath shown himself marvellously these six thousand years in the upholding this world.
If we did consider these continued and repeated testimonies of his glory, we should be overwhelmed
with what we find, though we search no farther. And suppose we would please ourselves to imagine
that it had been created many years before, yet that doth not silence and stop the insolence
of men’s minds, for it always might be inquired, what the Lord was doing before that time.
For eternity is as immensurable before those multiplied thousands of years as before naked
six. Let our imagination sit down to subtract from eternity as many thousands as it can multiply
by all the varieties and numbers in the world, yet there is nothing abated from eternity.(150)
It is as infinite in extent before that, as before the present six thousand, and yet we may
conceive that the Lord hath purposed in the beginning of the world to declare more manifestly
to our understanding his eternity, his self sufficiency, and liberty,—his eternity, that when
we hear of how short standing the creature is, we may go upward to God himself, and his everlasting
being, before the foundations of it were laid, may shine forth more brightly to our admiration,
when we can stretch our conceptions so immensurably as far beyond the beginning of the world;
and yet God is still beyond the utmost reach of our imagination,—for who can find out the beginning
of that which hath not a beginning to be found out,—and our most extended apprehensions fall
infinitely short of the days of the Ancient of days. O how glorious, then, must his being be,
and how boundless! His self-sufficiency and perfection doth herein appear, that from such an
inconceivable space he was as perfect and blessed in himself as now. The creatures add nothing
to his perfection or satisfaction. He was as well-pleased with his own all-comprehending being,
and with the very thought and purpose of making this world, as now he is when it is made. The
idea of it in his mind gave him as great contentment as the work itself when it is done! O,
to conceive this aright,—it would fill a soul with astonishing and ravishing thoughts of his
blessedness! Poor men weary if they be not one way or other employed without; so indigent are
all creatures at home, that they would weary if they went not abroad without themselves. But
to think how absolutely God is well-pleased with himself, and how all imaginable perfections
can add nothing to his eternal self-complacency and delight in his own being, it would certainly
ravish a soul to delight in God also. And as his self-sufficiency doth herein appear, so his
liberty and freedom is likewise manifested in it. If the world had been eternal, who would
have thought that it was free for his majesty to make it or not, but that it had flowed from
his glorious being with as natural and necessary a resistance as light from the body of the
sun? But now it appears to all men, that for his pleasure they are made, and we are created;
that it was simply the free and absolute motion of his will that gave a being to all things,
which he could withhold at his pleasure or so long as he pleased.

Thirdly, We have it to consider in what condition he made all these things, “very good;” and
that to declare his goodness and wisdom. The creature may well be called a large volume, extended
and spread out before the eyes of all men, to be seen and read of all. It is certain, if these
things,—all of them in their orders and harmonies, or any of them in their beings and qualities,—were
considered in relation to God’s majesty, they would teach and instruct both the fool and the
wise man in the knowledge of God. How many impressions hath he made in the creatures, which
reflect upon any seeing eye the very image of God! To consider of what a vast and huge frame
the heavens and the earth are, and yet but one throne to his majesty, the footstool whereof
is this earth, wherein vain men erect many palaces; to consider what a multitude of creatures,
what variety of fowls in the heaven, and what multiplicity of beasts upon the earth, what hosts,
as Moses speaks (Gen. ii. 1,) and yet that none of them all are useless, but all of them have
some special ends and purposes they serve for, so that there is no discord nor disorder, nor
superfluity nor want in all this monarchy of the world: all of them conspire together in such
a discord, or disagreeing harmony, to one great purpose,—to declare the wisdom of him who “made
every thing beautiful in its time,” and every thing most fit and apposite for the use it was
created for; so that the whole earth is full of his goodness. He makes every creature good
one to another, to supply one another’s necessities; and then, notwithstanding of so many different
natures and dispositions between elements, and things composed of them, yet all these contrarieties
have such a commixion, and are so moderated by supreme art, that they make up jointly one excellent
and sweet harmony or beautiful proportion in the world. O how wise must he be who alone contrived
it all!

Then, fourthly, Look upon the power of God in making all of nothing, which is expressed here
in Heb. xi. There is no artificer but he must have matter, or his art will fail him, and he
can do nothing. The mason must have timber and stones laid to his hand, or he cannot build
a house; the goldsmith must have gold or silver ere he can make a cup or a ring. Take the most
curious and quick inventor of them all,—they must have some matter to work upon, or their knowledge
is no better than ignorance. All that they can do is, to give some shape or form, or to fashion
that in some new model which had a being before. So that, whatever men have done in the world,
their works are all made up of those things which appear, and art and skill to form and fashion
that excellently which before was in another mould and fashion. But he needs not sit idle for
want of materials, because he can make his materials; and therefore, in the beginning he made
heaven and earth, not as they now are, but he made first the matter and substance of this universe,
but it was as yet a rude and confused chaos or mass, all in one lump, without difference. But
then his majesty shows his wisdom and art, his excellent invention, in the following days of
the creation, in ordering and beautifying and forming the world as it is, and that his power
might be the more known; for how easy is it for him to do all this? There needs no more for
it but a word,—let it be, and it is. “He spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood
fast.” Not a word pronounced, and audibly composed of letters and syllables—mistake it not
so—but a word inwardly formed, as it were, in his infinite Spirit. Even the inclination and
beck of his will suffices for his great work. Ye see what labour and pains we have in our business,—how
we toil and sweat about it,—what wrestlings and strivings in all things we do; but behold what
a great work is done without pain and travail? It is a laborious thing to travel through a
parcel of this earth, which is yet but as the point of the universe; it is troublesome to lift
or carry a little piece of stone or clay; it is a toil even to look upward and number the stars
of heaven. But it was no toil, no difficult thing to his majesty, to stretch out these heavens
in such an infinite compass; for as large as the circumference of them is, yet it is as easy
to him to compass them, as it is to us to span a finger-length or two. It is no difficulty
to him to take up hills and mountains as “the dust of the balance,” in his hand, and weigh
them in scales. Hath he not chained the vast and huge mass of the weighty earth and sea, in
the midst of the empty place, without a supporter, without foundations or pillars? He hangeth
it on nothing. What is it, I pray you, that supports the clouds? Who is it that binds up their
waters in such a way that the clouds are not rent under them, even though there be more abundance
of water in them than is in all the rivers and waters round about us? Job xxvi. 7, 8. Who is
it that restrains and sets bounds to the sea, that the waters thereof, though they roar, yet
do not overflow the land, but this almighty Jehovah, whose decree and commandment is the very
compass, the bulwark over which they cannot flow? And all this he doth with more facility than
men can speak. If there were a creature that could do all things by speaking, that were a strange
power. But yet that creature might be wearied of speaking much. But he speaks, and it is done.
His word is a creating word of power, which makes things that are not to be, and there is no
wearying of him besides, for he is almighty and cannot faint. But why then did he take six
days for his work? Might he not with one word of his power have commanded this world to issue
out of his omnipotent virtue thus perfect as it is? What needed all this compass? Why took
he six days, who in a moment could have done it all with as much facility? Indeed herein the
Lord would have us to adore his wisdom as well as his power. He proceeds from more imperfect
things to more perfect;—from a confused chaos to a beautiful world,—from motion to rest,—to
teach man to walk through this wilderness and valley of tears, this shapeless world, into a
more beautiful habitation; through the tossings of time, into an eternal sabbath of rest, whither
their works shall follow them, and they shall rest from their labours. He would teach us to
take a steadfast look of his work, and that we should be busied all the days of our pilgrimage
and sojourning in the consideration of the glorious characters of God upon the works of his
hands. We see that it is but passing looks and glances of God’s glory we take in the creatures;
but the Lord would have us to make it our work and business all the week through, as it was
his to make them. He would in this teach us his loving care of men, who would not create man
till he had made for him so glorious a house, replenished with all good things. It had been
a darksome and irksome life to have lived in the first chaos without light, but he hath stretched
over him the heavens as his tent, and set lights in them to distinguish times and seasons,
and ordained the waters their proper bounds and peculiar channels, and then maketh the earth
to bring forth all manner of fruit, and when all is thus disposed, then he creates man. To
this God, the Maker of heaven and earth, be glory and praise.

                              Lecture XVIII.

Of Creation

    Heb. xi. But yet there is nothing so
little believed or laid to heart. “Through faith we understand that the
worlds were framed.” It is one of the first articles of the creed,
indeed,—“Father, almighty Maker of heaven and earth.” But I fear that
creed is not written in the tables of flesh, that is, the heart. There is
a twofold mistake among men about the point of believing. Some, and the
commoner sort, do think it is no other than simply to know such a thing,
and not to question it, to hear it, and not to contradict it, or object
against it, therefore they do flatter themselves in their own eyes, and do
account themselves to have faith in God, because they can say over all the
articles of their belief. They think the word is true, and they never
doubted of it. But, I beseech you, consider how greatly you mistake a main
matter of weighty concernment. If you will search it, as before the Lord,
you will find you have no other belief of these things than children use
to have, whom you teach to think or say any thing. There is no other
ground of your not questioning these truths of the gospel, but because you
never consider them, and so they pass for current. Do not deceive
yourselves, “with the heart man believes.” It is a heart-business, a soul
matter, no light and useless opinion, or empty expression, which you have
learned from a child. You say, you believe in God, the Maker of heaven and
earth, and so say children, who doubt no more of it than you, and yet in
sadness they do not retire within their own hearts, to think what an One
he is. They do not remember him in the works of his hands. There is no
more remembrance of that true God than if no such thing were known. So it
is among you,—you would think we wronged you if we said, ye believed not
that God made the world, and yet certainly, all men have not this faith,
whereby they understand truly in their heart, the power and wisdom and
goodness of God appearing in it, that is the gift of God, only given to
them that shall be saved. If I should say, that you believe not the most
common principles of religion, you will think it hard, and yet there is no
doubt of it, that the most common truths are least believed. And the
reason is plain, because men have learned them by tongue, and there is
none that question them, and therefore, very few ever, in sadness and in
earnest, consider of them. You say that God made heaven and earth, but how
often do ye think on that God? And how often do you think on him with
admiration? Do ye at all wonder at the glory of God when ye gaze on his
works? Is not this volume always obversant before your eyes—every thing
showing and declaring this glorious Maker? Yet who is it that taketh more
notice of him than if he were not at all? Such is the general stupidity of
men, that they never ponder and digest these things in their heart, till
their soul receive the stamp of the glory and greatness of the invisible
God, which shines most brightly in those things that are visible, and be
in some measure transformed in their minds, and conformed to those
glorious appearances of him, which are engraven in great characters in all
that do at all appear. There is another mistake peculiar to some,
especially the Lord’s people, that they think faith is limited to some few
particular and more unknown and hidden truths and mysteries of the gospel.
Ye think that it is only true believing, to embrace some special gospel
truths, which the multitude of people know nothing of, as the tenor of the
covenants of grace and works, &c. And for other common principles of God’s
making and ruling the world, you think that a common thing to believe
them. But, saith the apostle, “through faith we understand that the worlds
were framed.” It is that same faith spoken of in the end of the 10th
chapter, by which the “just shall live.” So then, here is a point of
saving faith, to believe with the heart in God, the Creator and Father
Almighty, to take a view of God’s almighty power, and sufficient goodness
and infinite wisdom, shining in the fabric of the world, and that with
delight and admiration at such a glorious fountain being; to rise up to
his majesty by the degrees of his creatures. This is the climbing and
aspiring nature of faith. You see how much those saints in the Old
Testament were in this and certainly they had more excellent and beseeming
thoughts of God than we. It should make Christians ashamed, that both
heathens, who had no other book opened to them but that of nature, did
read it more diligently than we, and that the saints of old, who had not
such a plain testimony of God as we now have, did yet learn more out of
the book of the creature than we do both out of it and the scriptures. We
look on all things with such a careless eye, and do not observe what may
be found of God in them. I think, verily, there are many Christians, and
ministers of the gospel, who do not ascend into those high and ravishing
thoughts of God, in his being and working, as would become even mere
naturalists. How little can they speak of his majesty, or think as it
becomes his transcendent glory! There is little in sermons or discourses
that holds out any singular admiring thoughts of a Deity, but in all these
we are as common and careless as if he were an idol.

It is not in vain that it is expressed thus: “through faith we know that the worlds were framed.”
For certainly the firm believing and pondering of this one truth would be of great moment and
use to a Christian in all his journey. You may observe in what stead it is to the saints in
scripture this raises up a soul to high thoughts, and suitable conceptions of his glorious
name, and so conforms the worship of his majesty unto his excellency. It puts the stamp of
divinity upon it, and spiritualizes the thoughts and affections, so as to put a true difference
between the true God, and the gods that made not the heavens and the earth. Alas! the worship
of many Christians speaks out no diviner or higher object than a creature, it is so cold, so
formal and empty, so vain and wandering. There is no more respect testified unto him, than
we would give unto some eminent person. You find in the scripture how the strain of the saints’
affections and devotion rises, when they take up God in his absolute supremacy above the creatures,
and look on him as the alone fountain of all that is worth the name of perfection in them.
A soul in that consideration cannot choose but assign unto him the most eminent seat in the
heart, and gather those affections which are scattered after the creatures, into one channel,
to pour them out on him who is all in all, and hath all that which is lovely in the creatures
in an eminent degree. Therefore know what you are formed for,—to show forth his praise, to
gather and take up from the creatures all the fruits of his praise, and offer them up to his
majesty. This was the end of man, and this is the end of a Christian. You are made for this,
and you were redeemed for this, to read upon the volumes of his works and word, and from thence
extract songs of praise to his majesty.

As this would be of great moment to the right worshipping of God, and to the exercise of true
holiness, so it is most effectual to the establishing of a soul in the confidence of the promises
of God. When a soul by faith understands the world was made by God, then it relies with confidence
upon that same word of God, as a word of power, and hopes against hope. There are many things
in the Christian’s way betwixt him and glory, which look as insuperable. Thou art often emptied
into nothing, and stripped naked of all encouragements, and there is nothing remaining but
the word of God’s promises to thee and to the church, which seems contrary to sense and reason.
Now, I say, if thou do indeed believe that the world was made by God, then out of all question
thou mayest silence all thy fears with this one thought—God created this whole frame out of
nothing, he commanded the light to shine out of darkness then certainly he can give a being
to his own promises. Is not his word of promise as sure and effectual as his word of command?
This is the grand encouragement of the church, both offered by God, from Isa. chap. xl., and
made use of by his saints, as David, Hezekiah, &c. What is it would disquiet a soul if it were
reposed on this rock of creating power and faithfulness? This would always sound in its ears,—“Faint
not, weary not, Jacob, I am God, and none else. The portion of Jacob is not like others.” Be
it inward or outward difficulties,—suppose hell and earth combined together,—let all the enemies
of a soul, or of the church assemble,—here is one for all. The God that made the heaven and
the earth can speak, and it is done, command, and it stands fast! He creates peace, and who
then can make trouble, when he gives quietness to a nation, or to a person? Almighty power
works in saints, and for saints. Let us trust in him.

                               Lecture XIX. You find here the
creation of man expressed in other terms than were used before. He said,
“Let there be light,” and it was, “let there be dry land,” &c. But it is
not such a simple word as that, but “let us make man in our image,” as if
God had called a consultation about it. What! was there any more
difficulty in this than in the rest of his works? Needed he any advisement
about his frame and constitution? No certainly, for there was as great
work of power, as curious pieces of art and wisdom, which were instantly
done upon his word. He is not a man that he should advise or consult. As
there is no difficulty nor impediment in the way of his power,—he doth all
that he pleases, ad nutum, at his very word or nod, so easy are
impossibilities to him,—so there is nothing hard to his wisdom, no knot
but it can loose, nothing so curious or exquisite but he can as curiously
contrive it, as the most common and gross pieces of the creation, and
therefore, “he is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.” But ye
have here expressed, as it were, a counsel of the holy and blessed Trinity
about man’s creation, to signify to us what peculiar respect he puts upon
that creature, and what special notice he takes of us, that of his own
free purpose and good pleasure he was to single and choose out man from
among all other creatures, for the more eminent demonstration of his
glorious attributes of grace, mercy, and justice upon him, and likewise to
point out the excellency that God did stamp upon man in his creation
beyond the rest of the creatures, as the apostle shows the excellency of
Christ above angels, “To which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art
my son?” Heb. i. 5. So we may say, of which of the creatures said he at
any time, “Come, let us make them in our image after our likeness?” O how
should this make us listen to hear, earnest to know what man once was, how
magnified of God, and set above the works of his hands? There is a great
desire in men to search into their original, and to trace backward the
dark footsteps of antiquity, especially if they be put in expectation of
attaining any honourable or memorable extraction? How will men love to
hear of the worth of their ancestors? But what a stupidity doth possess
the most part, in relation to the high fountain and head of all, that they
do not aim so high as Adam, to know the very estate of human nature? Hence
it is that the most part of people lie still astonished, or rather stupid
and senseless, after this great fall of man, because they never look
upward to the place and dignity from whence man did fall. It is certain,
you will never rightly understand yourselves or what you are, till ye know
first what man was made. You cannot imagine what your present misery is,
till you once know what that felicity was in which man was made,—“let us
make man in our image.” Some have called man μικροκοσμος “a little world,”
a compend of the world, because he hath heaven and earth as it were
married together in him—two most remote and distant natures, the dust of
the earth, and the immortal spirit, which is called the breath of God,
sweetly linked and conjoined together, with a disposition and inclination
one to another. The Lord was in this piece of workmanship as it were to
give a narrow and short compend of all his works, and so did associate in
one piece with marvellous wisdom, being, living, moving, sense and reason,
which are scattered abroad in the other creatures, so that a man carries
these wonders about with him, which he admires without him. At his bare
and simple word, this huge frame of the world started out of nothing, but
in this, he acts the part of a cunning artificer,—“Let us make man.” He
makes rather than creates, first raises the walls of flesh, builds the
house of the body with all its organs, all its rooms, and then he puts in
a noble and divine guest to dwell in it. He breathes in it the breath of
life. He incloses as it were an angel within it, and marries these
together in the most admirable union and communion that can be imagined,
so that they make up one man.

But that which the Lord looks most into in this work, and would have us most to consider, is
that image of himself that he did imprint on man,—“Let us make man in our own image.” There
was no creature but it had some engravings of God upon it, some curious draughts and lineaments
of his power, wisdom, and goodness upon it, and therefore the heavens are said to show forth
his glory, &c. But whatever they have, it is but the lower part of that image, some dark shadows
and resemblances of him, but that which is the last of his works, he makes it according to
his own image, tanquam ab ultima manu. He therein gives out himself to he read and seen of
all men as in a glass. Other creatures are made as it were according to the similitude of his
footstep,—ad similitudinem vestigii,—but man ad similitudinem faciei,—according to the likeness
of his face,—“in our image, after our likeness.” It is true there is only Jesus Christ his
Son, who is “the brightness of his glory, and the express substantial image of his person,”
who resembles him perfectly and thoroughly in all properties, so that he is alter idem, another
self both in nature, properties, and operations,—so like him that he is one with him, so that
it is rather an oneness, than a likeness. But man he created according to his own image, and
gave him to have some likeness to himself,—likeness I say, not sameness or oneness. That is
high indeed, to be like God. The notion and expression of it imports some strange thing. How
could man be like God, who is infinite, incomprehensible, whose glory is not communicable to
another? It is true, indeed, in those incommunicable properties he hath not only no equal,
but none to liken him. In these he is to be adored, and admired as infinitely transcending
all created perfections and conceptions, But yet in others he has been pleased to hold forth
himself to be imitated and followed. And that this might be done, he first stamps them upon
man in his first moulding of him. And if ye would know what these are particularly, the apostle
expresses them, “in knowledge,” (Col. iii. 10) “in righteousness and true holiness,” Eph. iv.
21. This is the “image of him who created him,” which the Creator stamped on man, that he might
seek him, and set him apart for himself to keep communion with him, and to bless him. There
is a spirit given to man with a capacity to know and to will, and here is a draught and lineament
of God’s face which is not engraven on any sensitive creature. It is one of the most noble
and excellent operations of life, in which a man is most above beasts, to reflect upon himself
and to know himself and his Creator. There are natural instincts given to other things, natural
propensions to those things that are convenient to their own nature, but none of them have
so much as a capacity to know what they are, or what they have. They cannot frame a notion
of him who gave them a being but are only proportionate to the discerning of some sensible
things, and can reach no further. He hath limited the eye within colours and light, he hath
set a bound to the ear that it cannot act without sounds, and so to every sense he hath assigned
its own proper stanse, in which it moves. But he teaches man knowledge, and he enlarges the
sphere of his understanding beyond visible or sensible things to things invisible,—to spirits.
And this capacity he has put in the soul,—to know all things, and itself among the rest. The
eye discerns light, but sees not itself, but he gives a spirit to man to know himself and his
God. And then there is a willing power in the soul, by which it diffuses itself towards any
thing that is conceived as good, the understanding directing, and the will commanding according
to its direction, and then the whole faculties and senses obeying such commands, which makes
up an excellent draught of the image of God. There was a sweet proportion and harmony in Adam,
all was in due place and subordination. The motions of immortal man did begin within. The lamp
of reason did shine and give light to it, and till that went before, there was no stirring,
no choosing, no refusing, and when reason—which was one sparkle of the divine nature, or a
ray of God’s light reflected into the soul of man,—when once that did appear to the discerning
of good and evil this power was in the soul, to apply the whole man accordingly, to choose
the good and refuse the evil. It had not been a lively resemblance of God to have a power of
knowing and willing simply, unless these had been beautified and adorned with supernatural
and divine graces of spiritual light and holiness and righteousness. These make up the lively
colour, and complete the image of God upon the soul.

There was a divine light which did shine in upon the understanding, ever till sin interposed
and eclipsed it, and from the light of God’s countenance did the sweet heat and warmness of
holiness and uprightness in the affections proceed, so that there was nothing but purity and
cleanness in the soul, no darkness of ignorance, no muddiness of carnal affections, but the
soul pure and transparent, to receive the refreshing and enlightening rays of God’s glorious
countenance. And this was the very face and beauty of the soul. It is that only that is the
beauty and excellency of the creature,—conformity to God. And this was throughout, in understanding
and affections, the understanding conformed to his understanding, discerning between good and
evil. And conformed it behoved to be, for it was but a ray of that sun, a stream of that fountain
of wisdom, and a light derived from that primitive light of God’s understanding. And then the
will did sympathize as much with his will, approving and choosing what he approved, and refusing
that which he hated Idem velle atque nolle, ea demum firma amicitia est.(151) That was the
conjunction, and it was more strict than any tie among men. There were not two wills, they
were, as it were, one. The love of God reflecting into the soul, did, as it were, carry the
soul back again unto him, and that was the conforming principle which fashioned the whole man
without and within, to his likeness and to his obedience. Thus man was formed for communion
with God, this likeness behoved to be, or they could not join as friends.

But now this calls us to a sad meditation, to think from whence we have fallen, and so how
great our fall is. To fall from such a blessed estate, that must be great misery! Satan hath
spoiled us of our rich treasure, that glorious image of holiness, and hath drawn upon our souls
the very visage of hell, the lineaments of his hellish countenance. But the most part of men
lie stupid, insensible of any thing, as beasts that are felled with their fall, that can neither
find pain nor rise. If we could but return and consider what are all those sad and woful consequences
of sin in the world,—what a strange distemper it hath put in the creation,—what miseries that
one fall hath brought on all mankind,—I am sure by these bruises we might conjecture what a
strange fall it hath been. Sin did interpose between God and us, and this darkened our souls
and killed them. The light of knowledge was put out, and the life of holiness extinguished,
and now there remains nothing of all that stately building, but some ruins of common principles
of reason and honesty engraven on all men’s consciences, which may show unto us what the building
hath been. We have fallen from holiness, and so from happiness. Our souls are deformed and
defiled. You see what an ill favoured thing it is, to see a child wanting any members. O if
sin were visible, how ugly would the shape of the soul be to us, since it lost the very proportion
and visage of it, that is, God’s image! Let us consider this doctrine, that we may know from
whence we have fallen, and into what a gulf of sin and misery we have fallen, that the news
of Jesus Christ, a Mediator and Redeemer of fallen man, may be sweet unto us. Thus it pleased
the lord to let his image be marred and quite spoiled in us, for he had this design to repair
it and renew it better than of old, and for this end he hath created Christ according to his
image. He hath stamped that image of holiness upon his flesh to be a pattern,—and not only
so, but a pledge also,—of restoring such souls as flee unto him for refuge, unto that primitive
glory and excellency. Know then, that he hath made his Son like unto us, that we might again
be made like unto him. He said, let one of us be made man, in the counsel of redemption, that
so it might again be said, let man be made like unto us, in our image. It is a second creation
must do it, and O that you would look upon your hearts to inquire if it be framed in you! Certainly
you must again be created into that image if you belong to Christ. To him be praise and glory.

                               Lecture XX.

God’s Works Of Providence

    Rom. xi. 36.—“For of him, and through him, and to him are all
    things, to whom be glory for ever, Amen.”—Psal. ciii. 19.—“The
    Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens and his kingdom
    ruleth over all.”—Matt. x. 29.—“Are not two sparrows sold for a
    farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without
    your Father.”

There is nothing more commonly confessed in words, than that the providence of God reaches
to all the creatures and their actions, but I believe there is no point of religion so superficially
and slightly considered by the most part of men. The most part ponder none of these divine
truths. There is nothing above their senses which is the subject of their meditations. And
for the children of God, I fear many do give such truths of God too common and coarse entertainment
in their minds. I know not what we are taken up with in this age,—with some particular truths
more remote from the knowledge of others in former times, or some particular cases concerning
ourselves? You will find the most part of Christians stretch not their thoughts beyond their
own conditions or interests, or some particular questions about faith and repentance, &c. And
in the mean time the most weighty points of religion, which have been the subject of the meditation
and admiration of saints in all ages, are wholly laid aside through a misapprehension of their
commonness as if a man would despise the sun and the air, and prefer some rare piece of stone
or timber to them. Certainly, as in the disposal of the world, the Lord hath in great wisdom
and goodness made the most needful and useful things most common—those without which man cannot
live are always obvious to us, so that if any thing be more rare, it is not necessary—so in
this universe of religion, he in mercy and wisdom hath so framed all, that those points of
truth and belief which are most near the substance of salvation and necessary to it, and most
fit to exercise us in true godliness,— these are everywhere to be found, partly engraven on
men’s hearts, partly set down most clearly and often in scripture, that a believing soul can
look nowhere but it must breathe in that air of the gospel, and look upon that common Sun of
righteousness, God the Creator, and the healing Sun, Christ the Redeemer, shining everywhere
in scripture. The general providence of God and the special administration of Christ the Saviour,
these are common, and these are essential to our happiness. Therefore the meditation of Christians
should run most upon them, and not always about some particular questions or debates of the
time. It is a strange thing how people should be more affected with a discourse on the affairs
of the time, or on some inward thoughts of their own hearts, than if one should speak of God’s
universal kingdom over all men and nations. That is accounted a general and ordinary discourse,
even as if men would set at nought the sun’s light, because it shines to all, and every day,
or would despise the water, because it may be found everywhere. Let the sun be removed for
some few days, and O what would the world account of it beyond all your curious devices or
rare enjoyments! This is it which would increase to more true godliness, if rightly believed,
than many other things ye are busied withal. It is our general view of them makes them but
general. I spoke once upon this word, Rom. xi. 36, but only in reference to the end of man,
which is God’s glory, but the words do extend further, and we must now consider what further
they hold forth. The apostle hath been speaking of the Lord’s unsearchable ways and judgments
towards men in the dispensation of grace and salvation, how free and how absolute he is in
that. And this he strengthens by the supreme wisdom of God, who did direct him. Why dost thou,
O man, take upon thee to direct him now? For, where was there any counsellor when he alone
contrived all the frame of this world, and then, by sovereign highness and supremacy over the
creatures, disposed of them? For he is a debtor to none, therefore none can quarrel him for
giving or not giving, for who was it that gave him first, for which he should give a recompense?
Was there any could prevent him with a gift? Nay, none could, saith he, “for of him, and through
him, and to him are all things” and therefore he must prevent men. For from whence should that
gift of the creature, which could oblige him, have its rise? It must be of God, if it be a
creature, and therefore he is in no man’s common, he must give it ere we have it to give him again.

The words are most comprehensive. They comprehend all things, and that is very large. There
is nothing without this compass, and they comprehend all the dependence of things. Things depend
upon that which made them, that which preserves them, and that for which they are made. All
things depend on him as their producing cause that gives them a being, “for of him are all
things.” They also depend on him as their conserving cause, who continues their being by that
selfsame influence wherewith he gave it, “for through him are all things.” And then they depend
on him as their final cause, for whose glory they are and are continued, for, “to him are all
things.” Thus you have the beginning, the continuance, and the end of the whole creation. This
word may lead us through all, from God, as the beginning, the alpha and original of their being,
through God, as the only supporter, confirmer and upholder of their being, and unto God, as
the very end for which they have their being. Now, to travel within this compass,—to walk continually
within this circle, and to go along this blessed round—to begin at God, and to go along all
our way with him, till we arrive and end at God,—and thus to do continually in the journey
of meditation, when it surveys any of his works—this were, indeed, the very proper work, and
the special happiness man was created for, and, I may say, a great part of that which a Christian
is created for. Again, there would be nothing more powerful to the conforming of a soul to
God, and to his obedience and fear than this, to have that persuasion firmly rooted in the
heart—that of God “are all things,” that whatever it be, good or evil that befalls us or others,—whatever
we observe in the world, that is the subject of the thoughts and discourses of men, and turns
men’s eyes after them—that all that is of God, that is, it is in the world, it started out
of nothing at his command, it is, because his power gave it a being, and in this consideration
to overlook, and in a manner forget, all second causes, to have such affecting and uptaking
thoughts of the first principle of all these motions, as to regard the lower wheels, that are
next us, no more than the hand or the sword that a man strikes us with as if these second causes
had no influence of their own but were merely acted and moved by this supreme power, as if
God did nothing by them, but only at their presence. We should so labour to look on those things
he doth by creatures, as if he did them alone without the creatures, as if he were this day
creating a world. Certainly, the solid faith of God’s providence will draw off the covering
of the creature, and espy the secret almighty power which acts in every thing to bring forth
his good pleasure concerning them. And then to consider, with that same seriousness of meditation
that the same everlasting arm which made them, is under them to support them, that the most
noble and excellent creatures are but streams, rays, images and shadows of God’s majesty, which,
as they have their being by derivation, so they have then continuance by that same continued
influence, so that if he would interpose between himself and them, or withdraw his countenance,
or stop his influence, the most sufficient of them all should evanish, as the sun beams dry
up the streams of a fountain, and disappear as the image of the glass, Psal. civ. 29, 30. O
that place were a pertinent object of a Christian’s meditation, how much of God is to be pressed
out of it by a serious pondering of it! The Lord, as it were, breathes into them a being, and
when he takes in his breath they perish, and when he sends it out again they are renewed. We
do not wonder at the standing of the world, but think, if we had been witnesses of the making
of it, we would have been filled with admiration. But certainly it is only our stupidity that
doth not behold that same wonder continued, for what is the upholding of this by his power
but a very continued and repeated creation,—which influence were able to bring a world out
of nothing? If this had not been before the virtue and power he employs now in making them
subsist, that same alone, without any addition of power, would have in the beginning made all
thus to be of nothing, so that the continuance of the world is nothing else but an uninterrupted
and constant flux and emanation of these things from God, as of light from the body of the
sun. And then to meditate how all these things are for him and his glory, though we know no
use nor end of them, yet that his majesty hath appointed them to show forth, one way or other,
the glory of his name in them, and those things which to our first and foolish apprehensions
seem most contrary to him, and, as it were, to spread a cloud of darkness over his glorious
name—the sins and perverse doings of men and angels, the many disorders and confusions in the
world, which seem to reflect some way upon him, that yet he hath holy and glorious ends in
them all, yea, that himself is the end of all, I say, to meditate on these things till our
soul received the stamp of reverence, and fear, and faith in God,—this would certainly be the
most becoming exercise of a Christian, to bring all things down from God, that we might return
and ascend with all things again unto God.

This is the most suitable employment of a man, as reasonable, much more as a Christian, that
very duty he was created for. “This people have I formed for myself, they shall show forth
my praise,” Isa. xliii. 21. And this is the showing forth of his praise, to follow forth the
footsteps of God in the word and in the world, and to ponder these paths of divine power and
goodness and wisdom, and to acknowledge him with our heart in all these. He made many creatures
on which his glory and praise is showed forth, and he made this creature man to show forth
that praise and that glory which is showed forth in other creatures. O but this is a divine
office! It is strange how our hearts are carried forth towards base things, and busied in many
vain, impertinent, and base employments and scarce ever mind this great one we were created for.

Certainly, this is the employment we were made for, to deduce all things from God till we can
again reduce all to him with glory, to bring all down from his everlasting counsels, until
we send all up to his eternal glory, together with the sacrifice of our hearts, to behold all
things to be of him, that is, of his eternal counsel and decree.—to have their rise in the
bosom of that, and then, through him, to proceed out of the bosom of his decree and purpose,
by his power, quasi obstetricante potentia, and then to return with all the promise and glory
to his ever glorious name, “for whom are all things.” There is none but they will allow God
some government in the world. Some would have him as a king, commanding and doing all by deputies
and substitutes. Some would have his influence general, like the sun’s upon sublunary things,
but how shallow are all men’s thoughts in regard of that which is? God has prepared, indeed,
his throne in the heavens. That is true, that his glory doth manifest itself in some strange
and majestic manner above, but the whole tenor of Scripture shows that he is not shut up in
heaven, but that he immediately cares for, governs, and disposes all things in the world, for
his kingdom is over all. It is the weakness of kings, not their glory, that they have need
of deputies, it is his glory, not baseness, to look to the meanest of his creatures. It is
a poor resemblance and empty shadow that kings have of him, he rules in the kingdoms of men,
and to him belongs the dominion and the glory. He deserves the name of a king, whose beck heaven
and earth obey. Can a king command that the sea flow not? Can a parliament act and ordain that
the sun rise not? Or will these obey them? Yet at his decree and command the sun is dark, the
sea stands still, the mountains tremble; “at thy rebuke the sea fled.” Alas! what do we mean
that we look upon creatures, and act ourselves as if we were independent in our being and moving?
How many things fall out and you call them casual and attribute them to fortune? How many things
do the world gaze upon, think upon, and discourse upon, and yet not one thought, one word of
God all the time? What more contingent than the falling of a sparrow on the ground? And yet
even that is not unexpected to him, but it flows from his will and counsel. What less taken
notice of or known than the hairs of your head? Yet these are particularly numbered by him,
and so that no power in the world can add to them or diminish from them without his counsel.
O what would the belief of this do to raise our hearts to suitable thoughts of God above the
creatures, to increase the fear, faith, and love of God, and to abate from our fear of men,
and our vain and unprofitable cares and perplexities? How would you look upon the affairs of
men,—the counsels, contrivances, endeavours, and successes of men,—when they are turning things
upside down, and plotting the ruin of his people, and establishing themselves alone in the
earth? What would you think of all these revolutions at this time? Many souls are astonished
at them, and stand gazing at what is done and to be done. And this is the very language of
your spirits and ways. The Lord hath forsaken the earth, the Lord seeth not. This is the language
of our parliaments and people. They do imagine that they are doing their own business and making
all sure for themselves. But, O what would a soul think that could escape above them all, and
arise up to the first wheel of present motions! A soul that did stand upon the exalted tower
of the word of God, and looked off it by the prospect of faith, would presently discover the
circle in which all these wanderings and changes are confined, and see men, states, armies,
nations, and all of them doing nothing but turning about in a round, as a horse in a mill,
from God’s eternal purpose, by his almighty power, to his unspeakable glory. You might behold
all these extravagant motions of the creatures, inclosed within those limits, that they must
begin here, and end here, though themselves are so beastly that they neither know of whom nor
for whom their counsels and actions are. Certainly, Satan cannot break without this compass,
to serve his own humour. Principalities and powers cannot do it. If they will not glorify him,
he shall glorify himself by them, and upon them.

                               Lecture XXI.

Of The First Covenant Made With Man

    Gen. ii. You may take up
this image and likeness in three branches.

First, there was a sweet conformity of the soul in its understanding, will, and affections
unto God’s holiness and light,—a beautiful light in the mind, derived from that fountain-light,
by which Adam did exactly know both divine and natural things. What a great difference doth
yet appear between a learned man and an ignorant rude person, though it be but in relation
to natural things! The one is but like a beast in comparison of the other. O how much more
was there between Adam’s knowledge and that of the most learned! The highest advancement of
art and industry in this life reaches no further than to a learned ignorance of the mysteries
in the works of God, and yet there is a wonderful satisfaction to the mind in it. But how much
sweet complacency hath Adam had, whose heart was so enlarged as to know both things higher
and lower, their natures, properties, and virtues, and several operations! No doubt could trouble
him, no difficulty vex him, no controversy or question perplex him, but above all, the knowledge
of that glorious and eternal Being, that gave him a being, and infused such a spirit into him,—the
beholding of such infinite treasures of wisdom, and goodness, and power in him, what an amiable
and refreshful sight would it be, when there was no cloud of sin and ignorance to interpose
and eclipse the full enjoyment of that uncreated light! When the aspect of the sun makes the
moon so glorious and beautiful, what may you conceive of Adam’s soul framed with a capacity
to receive light immediately from God’s countenance!  How fair and beautiful would that soul
be, until the dark cloud of sin did interpose itself! Then consider, what a beautiful rectitude
and uprightness, what a comely order and subordination would ensue upon this light, and make
his will and affections wonderfully good “God made man upright,” Eccles. vii. 29. There was
no thraw(152) or crack in all,—all the powers of the soul bending upright towards that Fountain
of all goodness. Now the soul is crooked and bends downward towards those base earthly things
that are the abasement of the soul, then it looked upright towards God,—had no appetite, no
delight but in him and his fulness, and had the moon or changeable world under its feet. There
was a beauty of holiness and righteousness which were the colours that did perfect and adorn
those lineaments of the image of God which knowledge did draw in the soul. “He was a burning
and a shining light,” may be truly said of Adam, who had as much life as light, as much delight
in God as knowledge of him. This was the right constitution and disposition of man,—his head
lifted up in holiness and love towards God, his arms stretched out in righteousness and equity
towards man and all the affections of the man under their command, they could not trouble this
sea with any tempest, because they were under a powerful commander, who kept them under such
awe and obedience as the centurion his servants—saying to one, Go, and he goeth, and to another,
Come, and he cometh, sending out love one way, holy hatred another way. These were as wings
to the bird to flee upon, as wheels to the chariot to run upon, though now it be turned just
contrary, that the chariot draws the coachman, because the motion is downward. There could
be no motion in an upright man’s soul till the holy and righteous will gave out a sentence
upon it. That was the primum mobile which was turned about itself by such an intelligentia
as the understanding. And so it was in Christ,—affection could not move him, but he did move
his own affections, he troubled himself. In us the servant rides on horses, and the prince
walks on foot, even as in a distempered society, the laws and ordinances proceed by an unnatural
way from the violence of unruly subjects usurping over their masters. Holy and righteous man
could both raise up his affections, and compose them again, they were under such nurture and
discipline. He could have said, Hitherto, and no further, in which there was some resemblance
of God ruling the raging and unruly sea. But now, if once they get entry into our city, they
are more powerful than the governor, and will not take laws from him, but give him rather.
When we have given way to our passions, they do next what they please, not what we permit.

Next his excellency consisted in such an immunity and freedom from all fear of misery and danger,
from all touch of sorrow or pain, and did enjoy such a holy complacency and delight in his
own estate, as made him completely happy. In this he was like God. This is his blessedness,
that he is absolutely well pleased in himself, that he is without the reach of fear and danger,
that none can impair it, none can match it. “I am God and none else,” that is sufficiency of
delight to know himself, and his own sufficiency. Indeed, man was made changeable, mutably
good, that in this he might know God was above him, and so might have ground of watchfulness
and dependence upon him for continuance of his happiness who made him happy. But being made
so upright, no disquieting fear nor perplexing care could trouble him. Then lastly, if you
add unto this, holy satisfaction with his own state and freedom, the dominion and sovereignty
he had over the creatures as a consequent flowing from that image, you may imagine what a happy
creature he was. Whatsoever contentment or satisfaction the creatures could afford, all of
them willingly and pleasantly would concur to bestow it upon man, without his care or toil,
as if they had accounted it then happiness to serve him. What more excellent than this order?
Man counting it his happiness and delight to serve God and creatures esteeming it their happiness
to serve man, all things running towards him with all their goodness, as to a common centre,
and he returning all to God, from whence they did immediately flow. Thus, besides the fulness
and riches of God’s goodness immediately conferred upon man, he was enriched with all the store
and goodness that the earth was full of.

God having made man thus and furnished him after this manner, he gave him a law, and then he
made a covenant with him. There was a law first imprinted into Adam, and then a law prescribed
unto him. There was a law written in his heart, the remainder of which Paul saith makes the
Gentiles “inexcusable,” but it was perfectly drawn in him. All the principles and notions of
good and evil were exactly drawn in it. He had a natural discerning of them, and a natural
inclination to all good, and aversion from all evil, as there is a kind of law imposed by God
upon other creatures, which they constantly keep and do not swerve from, even his decree and
commandment, to the obedience of which they are composed and framed. The sea hath a law and
command to flow and ebb, and it is that command that breaks its proud waves on the sand, when
they threaten to overflow mountains. The beasts obey a law, written in their natures, of eating
and drinking, of satisfying their senses, and every one hath its several instinct and propension
to several operations, so God gave a more noble instinct unto man, suitable to his reasonable
soul,—an instinct and impulse to please God, in such duties of holiness and righteousness,
a sympathy with such ways of integrity and godliness, and an innate antipathy against such
ways as were displeasing to him or dishonourable to the creature. There is a kind of comeliness
and sweet harmony and proportion between such works, as the love of God and man, the use of
all for his glory, of whom all things are, and man’s reasonable being. Such a thing doth suit
and become it. Again, other things, as the hatred of God and men, neglect and forgetfulness
of him, drunkenness and abasing lusts of that kind, do disagree, and are indecent to it. O
how happy was Adam, when holiness and righteousness were not written on tables of stone, but
on his heart, and when there was no need of external persuasion, but there was an inward impulse,
inclining him strongly, and laying a kind of sweet necessity upon him to that which was both
his duty to God and men and his own dignity and privilege! This was, no question, the very
beauty of his soul—to be not only under a law proper and peculiar to himself, but to be inwardly
framed and moulded to it—to be a living law unto himself.

But besides this inward imprinted law of holiness and righteousness, which did without more
rules direct and determine him to that which is in itself good, it pleased the Lord to prescribe
and impose a positive law unto him, to command him abstinence from a thing neither good nor
evil, but indifferent, and such a thing as of itself he might have done as well as made use
of any other creature. There was no difference between the fruit which was discharged him,
and the fruit of the rest of the garden, there was nothing in it did require abstinence, and
nothing in him either. Yet for most wise and holy ends, the Lord enjoins him to abstain from
that fruit, and puts an act of restraint upon him, to abridge his liberty in that which might
prove his obedience, and not hinder his happiness, or diminish it, because he furnished him
abundantly beside. You may perceive two reasons of it. One is, that the sovereign power and
dominion of God over all men, may be more eminently held forth, and that visibly in such a
symbol and sign. He who put man in such a well furnished house, and placed him in a plentiful
and fruitful garden, reserves one tree, “thou shalt not eat thereof,” to let Adam see and know,
that he is the sovereign owner of all things, and that his dominion over the creatures and
their service unto him, was not so much for any natural prerogative of man above them, as out
of divine bounty and indulgence, because he had chosen a creature to himself to beautify and
make happy. This was a standing visible testimony, to bring man continually to remembrance
of his sovereignty, that being thus far exalted above other creatures, he might know himself
to be under his Creator, and that he was infinitely above him, that he might remember his own
homage and subjection to God, whenever he looked upon his dominion over the creatures. And
truly in other natural duties which an inward principle and instinct drives unto, the suitableness
and conveniency or beauty of the thing doth often preponderate, and might make man to observe
them without so much regard of the will and pleasure of the Most High. But in this the Lord
would have no other reason of obedience to appear but his own absolute will and pleasure, to
teach all men to consider in their actings rather the will of the commander than the goodness
or use of the thing commanded. And then, for this reason, it was enjoined to make a more exact
trial, and to take a more ample proof of Adam’s obedience. Oftentimes we do things commanded
of God, but upon what ground or motive? Because our own interest lies in them,—because there
is an inward weight and pondus of affection pressing us to them. The Lord commands the mutual
duties between parents and children, between man and wife, between friends, duties of self-preservation
and defence, and such like, and many are very exact and diligent in performing these, but from
what principle? It is easy to discern. Not because they are commanded of God,—not so much as
a thought of that for the most part,—but because of an inward and natural inclination of affection
towards ourselves and our relations, which is like an instinct and an impulse driving us to
those duties. And truly we may say, it is the goodness and bounty of the Lord that hath conjoined
in most parts of commanded duties our own interest and advantage, our own inclination and propension
with his authority, or else the toil and pain of them would overbalance the weight of his authority.
Now then, in such duties as are already imprinted on man’s heart, and consonant to his own
reason, there cannot be a clear proof of obedience to God’s will. The pure and naked nature
of obedience doth not so clearly shine forth in the observation of these. It is no great trial
of the creature’s subjection of its will to his supreme will, when there are so many reasons
besides his will, which may incline man’s will unto it. But here, in a matter in itself pleasant
to the senses, unto which he had a natural inclination, the Lord interposes himself by a command
of restraint, to take full probation whether man would submit to his good pleasure merely for
itself, or whether he would obey merely because God commands. And indeed in such like duties
as have no commendation but from the will and authority of the lawgiver, it will appear whether
man’s obedience be pure and simple obedience, and whether men love obedience for itself alone,
or for other reasons. Therefore the Lord saith, Obedience is better than sacrifice, and disobedience
is rebellion. Suppose, in such things as can neither hurt us nor help us, God put a restraint
upon us—though obedience may be of less worth than in other more substantial things, yet disobedience
in such easy matters is most heinous, because it proclaims open rebellion against God. If it
be light and easy, it is more easily obeyed, and the more sin and wickedness in disobeying;
and therefore is Adam’s sin called “disobedience” in a signal manner, (Rom. v. 19,) because,
by refusing such a small point of homage and subjection, he did cast off God’s power and authority
over him, and would not acknowledge him for his superior. This should teach us, who believe
the repairing of that image by Jesus Christ, to study such a respect and reverence to God’s
holy will as to do all things without more asking why it is so. If we once know what it is,
there is no more question to be asked. Of creatures we must inquire a quare after a quid,—a
why, after we know what their will is. But Christians should have their wills so subdued unto
God’s, that though no profit nor advantage were to redound by obedience, though it were in
things repugnant and cross to our inclination and humour, yet we should serve and obey him
as a testimony of our homage and subjection to him. And till we learn this, and be more abstracted
from our own interests in the ways of obedience, even from the interests of peace, and comfort,
and liberty, we do not obey him because he commands, but for our own sakes. It is the practice
of Antinomians, and contrary to true godliness, to look upon the law of God as the creature’s
bondage, as most of us do in our walking. A Christian, in whom the image of God is renewed
according to righteousness and holiness, should esteem subjection and conformity to a law,
and to the will of God, his only true liberty, yea, the very beauty of the soul; and never
is a soul advanced in conformity to God, till this be its delight, not a burden or task.

                              Lecture XXII.

Of The First Covenant.

    Gal. iii. 12.—“The law is not of faith; but the man that doeth
    them shall live in them.”—Gen. ii. Particularly, in
reference to the present purpose, he resolved to manifest two shining
properties,—his sovereignty and goodness. His sovereignty is showed, in
giving out a law and command to the creature; and his goodness is
manifested in making a covenant with his creature; as here you see the
terms of a covenant, a duty required, and a promise made, and, in case of
failing, a threatening conformed to the promise. He might have required
obedience simply, as the Lord and sovereign owner of the being and
operations of the creatures; and that was enough of obligation to bind all
flesh, that the Creator is lawgiver, that he who gives a being doth set
bounds and limits to the exercise and use of that being. But it pleased
the Lord, in his infinite goodness and love, to add a promise and
threatening to that law and command, and so turns it to the nature of a
voluntary covenant and agreement, whereby he doth mitigate and sweeten his
authority and power, and condescends so low to man as to take on himself a
greater obligation than he puts upon man, “Do this, and thou shalt live.”
He might then, out of his absoluteness and power, have required at the
creature’s hand any terms he pleased, even the hardest which could be
imagined, and yet no injustice in him. He might have put laws on men to
restrain all their natural liberty, and in every thing, to proclaim
nothing but his own supremacy. But O what goodness and condescension is
even in the very matter of the law; and then in the manner of prescribing
it with a promise! In the matter, so just and equitable to convince all
men’s consciences, yea, even engraven on their hearts, that he lays not
many burdens on, but what men’s consciences must lay on themselves; that
there is nothing in it all, when summed up, harder than this,—love God
most of all, and thy neighbour as thyself, which all men must proclaim to
be due, though it had not been required; and but one precept added by his
mere will, which yet was so easy a thing, as it was a wonder the Lord of
all put no other conditions on the creatures. And then for the manner;
that it is propounded covenant-wise, with a promise, not to expect the
creature’s consent—for it did not depend on his acceptation, he being
bound to accept any terms his Lord propounded—but because the matter and
all was so equitable, and the conditions so ample, that if it had been
propounded to any rational man, he would have consented with an admiration
at God’s goodness. Indeed, if we speak strictly, there cannot be a proper
covenant between God and man,—there is such an infinite distance between
such unequal parties, our obedience and performance being absolutely in
his power. We cannot promise it as our own, and it being but our duty, we
cannot crave or expect a reward in justice, neither can he owe any thing
to the creature. Yet it pleased his majesty to propound it in these terms,
and to stoop so low unto men’s capacities, and, as it were, come off the
throne of his sovereignty, both to require such duties of men, and to
promise unto them such a free reward. And the reasons of this may be plain
upon God’s part and upon ours. In such dealing, he consulted his own
glory, and man’s good. His own glory, I say, is manifested in it, and
chiefly the glory of his goodness and love, that the Most High comes down
so low as to article with his own footstool, that he changes his absolute
right into a moderate and temperate government, and tempers his lordly and
truly monarchical power by such a commixture of gentleness and goodness,
in requiring nothing but what man behoved to call reasonable and due, and
in promising so much as no creature could challenge any title to it. When
the law was promulgated, “Do this,” eat not of this tree, Adam’s
conscience behoved to say, “Amen, Lord; all is due, all the reason in the
world for it.” But when the promise is added, and the trumpet sounds
longer, “Thou shalt live!” O more than reason, more than is due, must his
conscience say! It was reason, that the most high Lord should use his
footstool as his footstool, and set his servant in the place of a servant,
and so keep distance from him. But how strange is it that he humbles
himself to make friendship with man, to assume him in a kind of
familiarity and equality? And this Christ is not forgetful of. When he
restores men, he puts them in all their former dignities; “I call you not
servants but friends.” Next, his wisdom doth appear in this, that when he
had made a reasonable creature, he takes a way of dealing, suitable to his
nature, to bring forth willing and free obedience by the persuasion of
such a reward, and the terror of such a punishment. He most wisely did
enclose the will of man, as it were, on both sides, with hedges of
punishment and reward, which might have been a sufficient defence or guard
against all the irruptions of contrary persuasions, that man might
continue in obedience, and that when he went to the right hand or left, he
might be kept in, by the hope of such an ample promise, and the fear of
such a dreadful threatening. But then the righteousness of God doth appear
in this; for there is nothing doth more illustrate the justice of the
judge, than when the malefactor hath before consented to such a punishment
in case of transgression, when the law is confirmed by the consent and
approbation of man. Now he has man subscribing already to his judgment,
and so all the world must stop their mouth and become guilty in case of
transgression of such a righteous command after such warning.

But, in the next place, it is no less for man’s good. What an honour and dignity was put upon
man, when he was taken into friendship with God! To be in covenant of friendship with a king,
O what a dignity is it accounted! And some do account it a great privilege to be in company,
and converse with some eminent and great person. Again, what way more fit and suitable to stir
up and constrain Adam unto a willing and constant obedience, when he had the encouragement
of such a gracious reward, and the determent of such a fearful punishment? Between these two
banks might the silver streams of obedience have run for ever without breaking over. He was
bound to all, though nothing had been promised. But then to have such a hope, what spirits
might it add to him? The Lord had been free, upon man’s obedience, either to continue him his
happy estate, or to denude him of it, or to annihilate him. There was no obligation lying on
him. But now, what confirmation might man have by looking upon the certain recompense of reward—when
God brings himself freely under an obligation of a promise, and so ascertains it to his soul,
which he could never have dreamed of, and gives him liberty to challenge him upon his faithfulness
to perform it!

And then, lastly, There was no way so fit to commend God, and sweeten him unto his soul as
this. Adam knew that his goodness could not extend to God; that his righteousness could not
help him, nor his wickedness hurt him, and so could expect nothing from his exact obedience.
But now, when God’s goodness doth so overflow upon the creature, and the Lord takes pleasure
to communicate himself to make others happy, though he had need of none, O how must it engage
the heart of man to a delightful remembrance, and converse with that God! As his authority
should imprint reverence, so his goodness thus manifested should engrave confidence. And thus
the life of man was not only a life of obedience, but a life of pleasure and delight; not only
a holy, but a happy life, yea, happy in holiness.

Now, as it was Paul’s great business in preaching, to ride marches between the covenant of
grace, and the covenant of works,—to take men off that old broken ship to this sure plank of
grace that is offered by Jesus Christ to drowning souls,—so it would be our great work to show
unto you the nature of this covenant, and the terms thereof, that you may henceforth find and
know that salvation to be now impossible by the law which so many seek in it. We have no errand
to speak of the first Adam, but the better to lead you to the second. Our life was once in
the first, but he lost himself and us both; but the second, by losing himself, saves both.
We have nothing to do to speak of the first covenant, but that we may lead you, or pursue you
rather to the second, established on better terms and better promises.

The terms of this covenant are,—Do this and live. Perfect obedience without one jot of failing
or falling,—an entire and universal accomplishment of the whole will of God,—that is the duty
required of man. There is no latitude left in the bargain to admit endeavours instead of performance,
or desire instead of duty. There is no place for repentance here. If a man fail in one point,
he falls from the whole promise; by the tenor of this bargain, there is no hope of recovery.
If you would have the duty in a word, it is a love of God with all our heart and soul, and
our neighbour as ourselves; and that testified and verified in all duties and offices of obedience
to God, and love to men, without the least mixture of sin and infirmity. Now, the promise on
God’s part is indeed larger than that duty, not only because undeserved, but even in the matter
of it, it is so abundant,—life, eternal life, continuance in a happy estate. There is a threatening
added, “In the day thou eatest thou shalt surely die;” that is, thou shalt become a mortal
and miserable creature, subject to misery here and hereafter; which is more pressingly set
down in that word, “Cursed is he that abideth not in all things written in the law to do them.”
It is very peremptory; that men dream not of escaping wrath when they break but in one, suppose
they did abide in all the rest. Cursed is every man from the highest to the lowest; the Lord
Almighty is engaged against him. His countenance, his power is against him, to destroy him
and make him miserable. Whoever doth fail but in one jot of the commands, he shall not only
fall from that blessed condition freely promised, but lose all that he already possessed, fall
from that image of God, dominion over the creatures, and incur, instead of that possessed and
expected happiness, misery here on soul and body, in pains, sicknesses, troubles, griefs, &c.,
and eternal misery on both, without measure, hereafter,—“eternal destruction from the presence
of the Lord, and the glory of his power.”

Now, “the law is not of faith,” saith the apostle. This opens up the nature of the bargain;
and the opposition between the present covenant and that which is made with lost sinners with
a Mediator. This covenant is called, of works, “Do this, and live;” to him that worketh is
the promise made, though freely too. It is grace, that once a reward should be promised to
obedience; but having once resolved to give it, herein justice appears in an equal and uniform
distribution of the reward, according to works; so that where there is an equality of works
there shall be an equality of reward, and no difference put between persons equal; which is
the very freedom of the covenant of grace, that it passes over all such considerations, and
deals equally in mercy with unequal sinners, and unequally, it may be, with them that are equal
in nature.

You may ask, was not Adam to believe in God and did not the law require faith? I answer, Christ
distinguishes a twofold faith: “You believe in God, believe also in me.” No question he was
called to believe in God the creator of the world, and that in a threefold consideration.

First, to depend on God the self-being and fountain-good. His own goodness was but a flux and
emanation from that Sun of Righteousness, and so was to be perpetuated by constant abiding
in his sight. The interposition of man’s self between him and God did soon bring on this eternal
night of darkness. Nature might have taught him to live in him in whom he had life and being
and motion, and to forget and look over his own perfections as evanishing shadows. But this
quickly extinguished his life, when he began to live in himself.

Next, he was obliged to believe God’s word, both threatening and promise, and to have these
constantly in his view. And certainly, if he had kept in his serious consideration, the inestimable
blessing of life promised, and the fearful curse of death threatened,—if he had not been induced
first to doubt, and then to deny the truth and reality of these,—he had not attempted such
a desperate rebellion against the Lord.

Then, thirdly, he was to believe and persuade himself of the Lord’s fatherly love, and that
the Lord was well-pleased with his obedience; and this faith would certainly beget much peace
and quietness in his mind, and also constrain him to love him, and live to him who loved him,
and gave him life and happiness out of love. Yet this holds true that the apostle saith, “the
law is not of faith,” to wit, in a Mediator and Redeemer. It was a bond of immediate friendship;
there needed none to mediate between God and man; there needed no reconciler where there was
no odds nor distance. But the gospel is of faith in a Mediator; it is the soul plighting its
hope upon Jesus Christ in its desperate necessity, and so supposes man sinful and miserable
in himself, and in his own sense too, and so putting over his weight and burden upon one whom
God hath made mighty to save. The law is not of faith, but of perfect works,—a watch-word brought
in of purpose to bring men off their hankering after a broken and desperate covenant. It admits
no repentance, it speaks of no pardon, it declares no cautioner or redeemer. There is nothing
to be expected, according to the tenor of that covenant, but wrath from heaven; either personal
obedience in all, or personal punishment for ever. That is the very terms of it, and it knows
no other thing. Either bring complete righteousness and holiness to the promise of life, or
expect nothing but death.

This may be a sad meditation to us, to stand and look back to our former estate, and compare
it with that into which we are fallen. That image we spoke of, is defaced and blotted out,
which was the glory of the creation; and now there is nothing so monstrous, so deformed in
the world as man. The corruption of the best things is always worst; the ruins of the most
noble creature are most ruinous; the spot of the soul most abominable. We are nothing but a
mass of darkness, ignorance, error, inordinate lust; nothing but confusion, disorder, and distempers
in the soul, and in the conversation of men; and, in sum, that blessed bond of friendship with
God broken, discord and enmity entered upon our side and separated us from God, and so we can
expect nothing from that first covenant but the curse and wrath threatened. “By one man’s disobedience”
sin entered upon all, “and death by sin;” because in that agreement Adam was a common person
representing us, and thus are all men once subject to God’s judgment, and come short of the
glory of God, fallen from life into a state of death, and, for any thing that could be expected,
irrecoverably. But it hath pleased the Lord, in his infinite mercy, to make a better covenant
in Christ his Son, that, what was impossible to the law, by reason of our weakness and wickedness,
his Son, sent in the flesh, condemned for sin, might accomplish, Rom. viii. 3. There is some
comfort yet after this; that covenant was not the last, and that sentence was not irrevocable.
He makes a new transaction, lays the iniquity of his elect upon Christ, and puts the curse
upon his shoulders which was due to them. Justice cannot admit the abrogation of the law, but
mercy pleads for a temperament of it. And thus the Lord dispenses with personal satisfaction,
which in rigour he might have craved; and finds out a ransom, admits another satisfaction in
their name. And in the name of that Cautioner and Redeemer is salvation preached upon better
terms: Believe and thou shalt be saved, Rom. x. 9. Thou lost and undone sinner, whoever thou
art, that findest thyself guilty before God, and that thou canst not stand in judgment by the
former covenant,—thou who hast no personal righteousness, and trustest in none,—come here,
embrace the righteousness of thy Cautioner,—receive him, and rest on him, and thou shalt be saved.

                              Lecture XXIII.

Of The State Wherein Man Was Created, And How The Image Of God Is Defaced.

    Eccl. vii. All of us must needs grant this in the
general, that it is an idle and unprofitable wandering abroad, to be
carried forth to the knowledge and use of other things, and in the mean
time to be strangers to ourselves, with whom we should be most acquainted.
If any man was diligent and earnest in the inquiry and use of the things
in the world, Solomon was. He applied his heart to seek out wisdom, and
what satisfaction was in the knowledge of all things natural; and in this
he attained a great degree beyond all other men. Yet he pronounces of it
all after experience and trial, that “this also is vanity and vexation of
spirit,”—not only empty and unprofitable, and not conducing to that true
blessedness he sought after,—but hurtful and destructive, nothing but
grief and sorrow in it. After he had proved all, with a resolution to be
wise, yet it was far from him; “I said, I will be wise, but it was far
from me,” ver. 23. And therefore, after long wandering abroad, he returns
at length home to himself, to know the estate of mankind. There is one thing concerns me more than all,—to know
the original of man, what he once was made, and to know how far he is
departed from his original. This only I have found profitable to men: and
as the entry and preparation to that blessedness I inquire for,—to have
the true discovery of our misery.

There are two things, then, concerning man, that you have to search and to know; and that not
in a trifling or curious manner, as if you had no other end in it but to know it as men do
in other things, but in a serious and earnest way, as in a matter of so much concernment to
our eternal well-being. In things that relate particularly to ourselves, we labour to know
them for some advantage besides the knowing of them, even though they be but small and lower
things; how much more should we propose this unto ourselves in the search and examination of
our own estate, not merely to know such a thing, but so to know it that we may be stirred up
and provoked in the sense of it to look after the remedy that God holds forth. There are two
things that you have to know,—what man once was made, and how he is now unmade; how happy once,
and how miserable now. And answerable to these two, are branches of the text: “God made man
upright;” that he was once; “and they have sought out many inventions;” not being contented
with that blessedness they were created into, by catching at a higher estate of wisdom, have
fallen down into a gulf of misery; as the man that gazed on the stars above him, and did not
take notice of the pit under his feet till he fell into it; and thus man is now. So you have
a short account of the two estates of men; of the estate of grace and righteousness without
sin, and the estate of sin and misery without grace. You have the true story of man from the
creation unto his present condition; but all the matter is to have the lively sense of this
upon our hearts. I had rather that we went home bewailing our loss, and lamenting our misery,
and longing for the recovery of that blessedness, than that we went out with the exact memory
of all that is spoken, and could repeat it again.

“God made man upright.” At his first moulding, the Lord showed excellent art and wisdom, and
goodness too. Man did come forth from under his hand in the first edition very glorious, to
show what he could do; upright, that is, all right and very exactly conformed to the noble
and high pattern,—endued with divine wisdom, such as might direct him to true happiness,—and
furnished with a divine willingness to follow that direction. The command was not above his
head as a rod, but within his heart as a natural instinct. All that was within him was comely
and beautiful; for that glorious light that shined upon him, having life and love with it,
produced a sweet harmony in the soul. He knew his duty, and loved it, and was able to perform
it. O how much is in this one word “upright!” Not only sincerity and integrity in the soul,
but perfection of all the degrees and parts; no part of holiness wanting, and no measure of
those parts; no mixture of darkness or ignorance,—no mixture of indisposition or unwillingness.
Godliness was sweet and not laborious. The love of God, possessing the heart, did conform all
within and without to the will of God; and O how beautiful was that conformity! And that love
of God, the fountain-being, did send forth, as a stream, love and good-will to all things,
as they did partake of God’s image; and so holiness towards God did beget righteousness towards
men, and made men to partake of one another’s happiness.

This is a survey of him in his integrity as God made him, but there follows a sad “but,”—a
sad and woful exception,—“but they have sought many inventions.” We cannot look upon that glorious
estate whereunto man was made, but straightway we must turn our eyes upon that misery into
which he hath plunged himself, and be the more affected with it, that it was once otherwise.
It is misery in a high degree to have been once happy. This most of all aggravates our misery,
and may increase the sense of it, that such man once was, and such we might have been, if we
had not destroyed ourselves. Who can look upon these ruins, and refrain mourning? It is said,
that those who saw the glory of the first temple, wept when they beheld the second, because
it was not answerable to it in magnificence and glory; so, I say, it might occasion much sadness
and grief, even to the children of God, in whom that image is in part repaired, and that by
a second creation, to think how much more happy and blessed man once was, who had grace and
holiness without sin. But certainly, it should and must be at first, before this image be restored,
the bitter lamentation of a soul, to look upon itself wholly ruinous and defaced, in the view
of that glorious stately fabric which once was made. How lamentable a sight is it to behold
the first temple demolished, or the first creation defaced, and the second not yet begun in
many souls, the foundation-stone not yet laid! It was a sad and doleful invention which Satan
inspired at first into man’s heart, to go about to find out another happiness,—to seek how
to be wise as God, an invention that did proceed from hell,—how to know evil experimentally
and practically by doing it! That invention hath invented and found out all the sin and misery
under which the world groans. It is a poor invention to devise misery and torment to the creature.
This was the height of folly and madness, for a happy creature to invent how to make itself
miserable and all others. Indeed, he intended another thing—to be more happy, but pride and
ambition got a deserved fall, the result of all is sin and misery.

And now from the first devilish invention, the heart of man is possessed with a multitude of
vain imaginations. Man is now become vain in his imaginations, and his foolish heart is darkened.
That divine wisdom he was endued withal is eclipsed, for it was a ray of God’s countenance,
and now he is left wholly in the dark without a guide, without a director or leader. He is
turned out of the path of holiness, and so of happiness. A night of gross darkness and blindness
is come on, and the way is full of pits and snares, and the end of it is at best eternal misery.
And there is no lamp, no light to shine on it, to show him either the misery that he is posting
unto, or the happiness that he is fleeing from. There is nothing within him sufficient to direct
his way to blessedness, and nothing willing or able to follow such a direction. And thus man
is left to the invention and counsel of his own desperately wicked and deceitful heart, and
that is above all plagues, to be given up to a reprobate mind. He is now left to such a tutor
and guider, and it is full of inventions indeed. But they are all in vain, that is, all of
them insufficient for this great purpose. All of them cannot make one hair that is black, white,
much less redeem the soul. But besides, they are destructive. They pretend to deliver, but
they destroy. A desperate wicked heart imagineth evil continually, evil against God, and evil
to our own souls. And a deceitful heart smooths over the evil, and presents it under another
notion, and so, under pretence of a friend, it is the greatest enemy a man hath,—a bosom-enemy.
All men’s inventions, thoughts, cogitations, projects, and endeavours, what do they tend to
but to the satisfaction of their lusts,—either the lusts of the mind, as ambition, pride, avarice,
passion, revenge, and such like,—or the lust of the body, as pleasure to the ears and eyes,
and to the flesh? Man was made with an upright soul, with a dominion over that brutish part,
more like angels, but now, all his invention runs upon that base and beastly part, how to adorn
it, how to beautify it, how to satisfy it, and for this his soul must be a drudge and slave.
And if men rise up to any thoughts of a higher life, yet what is it for, but to magnify and
exalt the flesh—to seek an excellency within, which is lost, and so to satisfy the pride and
self-love of the heart. If any man comes this length, as to apprehend some misery, yet how
vain are his inventions about the remedy of it. Not knowing how desperate the disease is, men
seek help in themselves, and think, by industry and care and art, to raise them up in some
measure, and please God by some expiations or sacrifices of their own works. Now, this tends
to no other purpose but to satisfy the lusts of man’s pride, and so it increases that which
was man’s first malady, and keeps them from the true physician. In a word, all man’s inventions
are to hasten misery on him, or to blindfold himself till it come on; all his invention cannot
reach a delivery from this misery. Let us therefore consider this which Solomon hath found
out, and if we carefully consider it, and accurately ponder it in relation to our own souls,
then have we also found it with him. Consider, I say, what man once was, and what you are now,
and bewail your misery and the fountain of it—our departure from the fountain of life and blessedness.
Know what you are, not only weak but wicked, whose art and power lies only in wickedness, skilful
and able only to make yourselves miserable. And let this consideration make you cast away all
your confidence in yourselves, and carry you forth to a Redeemer who hath found a ransom—who
hath found out an excellent invention to cure all our distempers and desperate diseases. The
counsel of the Holy Trinity that met about—if I may so speak—our creation in holiness and righteousness
after his own image, that same hath consulted about the rest of it, and hath found out this
course, that one of them shall be made after man’s image, and for this purpose, that he may
restore again God’s image unto us. O bless this deep invention and happy contrivance of heaven,
that could never have bred in any breast, but in the depths of eternal wisdom, and let us abandon
and forsake our own vain imaginations, and foolish inventions! Let us become fools in our own
eyes, that we may become wise.

Man by seeking to be wise, became a fool, that was an unhappy invention. Now it is turned contrary,
let all men take with their folly and desperate wickedness. Let not the vain thoughts and dreams
of our own well being and sufficiency lodge within us, and we shall be made wise. Come to the
Father’s wisdom,—unto Jesus Christ, who is that blessed invention of heaven for our remedy.
How long shall vain thoughts lodge within you? O when will you be washed from them? How long
shall not your thoughts transcend this temporal and bodily life? How long do you imagine to
live in sin, and die in the Lord,—to continue in sin and escape wrath? Why do you delude your
souls with a dream of having interest in the love of God, and purchasing his favour by your
works? These are some of those many inventions man hath sought out.

                              Lecture XXIV.

Of Sin By Imputation And Propagation. Though it be unpleasant to hold out a glass to men, to
see their own vile faces into, yet is it profitable, yea, and so necessary, that till once
a soul apprehend its broken and desolate condition in the first Adam, it can never heartily
embrace and come to the second Adam. You have here the woful and dreadful effects and consequents
of the first transgression upon all mankind. The effect is twofold,—sin and misery, or sin
and death. The subject is universal in both,—“all men,” the whole world. Behold what a flood
of calamity hath entered at a small cranny—by one man’s transgression! May it not be said of
sin in general, what the wise man speaks of strife,—“the beginning of” sin “is as when one
letteth out water?” Therefore it had been good leaving it oft before it had been meddled with,
it entered at a small hole, but it hath overflowed a whole world since.

That which first occurs, is, that all mankind, proceeding from Adam by ordinary birth are involved
in sin by Adam’s transgression. But that may seem a hard saying, that sin and death should
flow unto the whole posterity who had no accession to Adam’s transgression. It would seem,
that every man should die for his own iniquity, and that it should reach no further injustice.
But consider, I pray you, the relation that Adam stood into, and in which he is here holden
out as a figure of Christ. Adam, the first man, was a common person, representing all mankind,
in whose happiness or misery all should share. God contracts with him on these terms that his
posterity’s estate should depend on his behaviour. Now, if all mankind would have reaped the
benefit and advantage of Adam’s perseverance,—if such an undeserved reward of eternal life
would have redounded by the free promise unto them all,—what iniquity is it that they also
be sharers in his misery? Our stock and treasure was ventured in this vessel, and if we were
to partake of its gain, why not of its loss? You see among men, children have one common lot
with their parents. If the father be forfeited, the heirs suffer in it, and are cast out of
the inheritance. It might appear a surer way to have the fortunes of all—so to speak—depend
upon one, and their happiness assured unto them upon the standing of one, than to have every
one left to himself, and his own well-being depending upon his own standing, as it is more
likely one, and that the first one, shall not sin, than many; and especially when that one
knew that the weight of all his posterity hung upon him, it might have made him very circumspect,
knowing of how great moment his carriage was. But certainly we must look a little higher than
such reasons, there was a glorious purpose of God’s predominant in this, else there was no
natural necessity of imputing Adam’s sin to the children not yet born, or propagating it to
the children. He that brought a holy One and undefiled out of a virgin who was defiled, could
have brought all others clean out of unclean parents. But there is a higher counsel about it.
The Lord would have all men subject to his judgment,—all men once guilty, once in an equal
state of misery, to illustrate that special grace showed in Christ the more, and demonstrate
his power and wrath upon others. That which concerns us most is to believe this, that sin hath
overspread all, and to have the lively impressions of this were of more moment to true religion
than many discourses upon it. I had rather you went home not cursing Adam, or murmuring against
the Most High, but bemoaning yourselves for your wretched estate than be able to give reasons
for the general imputation and propagation of sin. You all see it is, and therefore you should
rather mourn for it than ask why it is.

There is “sin entered into the world” by imputation, and also by propagation. Adam’s first
sin and heinous transgression is charged upon all his posterity, and imputed unto them, even
unto them who have not sinned according to “the similitude of Adam’s transgression,” that is,
actually as he did. Infants, whom you call innocents,—and indeed so they are in respect of
you, who are come to age,—yet they are guilty before God of that sin that ruined all. Now,
that ye may know what you are, and what little reason you have to be pleased  with  yourselves,
and absolve yourselves as ye do, I shall unbowel that iniquity unto you. First, There was in
it an open banner displayed against God. When the sovereign Lord had enjoined his creature
such a testimony of his homage and loyalty, and that so easy to be performed, and such as not
a whit could abate from his happiness, what open rebellion was it to refuse it! It was a casting
off the sovereign dominion of God, than which nothing can be more heinous, as if the clay should
refuse to serve the potter’s pleasure, and therefore it is eminently and signally styled disobedience,
as having nothing in it but the pure naked nature of disobedience, no difficulty to excuse
it, for it was most easy, no pleasure to plead for it, for there were as good fruit beside,
and a world of them, no necessity to extenuate it, so that you can see nothing in it but the
ugly face of disobedience  and  rebellion, (ver. 19.) whereby man draweth himself from his
allegiance due to his Maker, and shaketh off the yoke in reproach of the Most High. Next, you
may behold the vile and abominable face of ingratitude and unthankfulness in it, and truly
heathens have so abhorred unthankfulness towards men, that they could not digest the reproach
of it,—Ingratum si dixeris, omnia dixeris, if you call me unthankful, you may call me any thing
or all things.(153) It is a compend of all vices. It is even iniquity grown to maturity and
ripeness. But that such a fruit should grow out of such a holy and good soil, so well dressed
and manured by the Lord was a wonder! Lord, what was man that thou didst so magnify him, and
make him a little lower than the angels,—that thou didst put all things sublunary under his
feet, and exalt him above them! For that creature chosen and selected from among all, to be
his minion, to stand in his presence, adorned and beautified  with such gifts and graces, magnified
with such glorious privileges, made according to the most excellent pattern, his own image,
to forget all, and forget so soon, and when he had such a spacious garden to make use of as
is supposed to make up the third part of the earth, to eat of no fruit but that which was forbidden,—there
is no such monstrous ingratitude can be imagined as here was acted! But then consider the two
fountains from which this flowed, unbelief and pride, and you shall find it the heaviest sin
in the world,—unbelief of his word and threatening. First, he was brought to question it, and
to doubt of it, and then to deny it. A word so solemnly and particularly told him by the truth
itself, that ever a question of it could arise in his mind or  get entry, what else was it
than to impute iniquity to the holy One, and that iniquity, falsehood and lying, which his
nature most abhors? What was it but to blaspheme the most high and faithful God, by hearkening
to the suggestions of his enemy, and to credit them more than the threatenings of God,—to give
the very flat contradiction to God,—we shall not die, and to assent so heartily to Satan’s
slanders and reproaches of God? And this unbelief opened a door to ambition and pride, the
most sacrilegious ingredient of all, which is most opposite to God, and unto which he most
opposed himself from the beginning: “Ye shall be as gods.” Was he not happy enough already,
and according to God’s image? Nay, but this evil principle would arise up to the throne of
God, and sit down in his stead. Pride hath atheism in it; to deny the true God, and yet would
be a god itself! For the footstool to lift up itself thus, what an indignity was it! And indeed
this wretched aim at so high an estate hath thrown us down as low as hell. You see then how
injurious this transgression was to God. There was disobedience and rebellion in it, which
denies his dominion and supremacy; there was unthankfulness in it, denying his goodness and
bounty; there was unbelief in it, contradicting his truth and faithfulness; and finally, pride,
opposing itself to all that is in God, reaching up to his very crown of Majesty to take it
off. You see then what you are guilty of, in being guilty of Adam’s transgression. Many of
you flatter yourselves in your own eyes that you have not done much evil, and you will justify
yourselves in your comparisons with others; but I beseech you, consider this, though you had
never done personally good or evil here, that which drowned the world in misery is your sin,
and charged upon you. You are guilty of that which ruined all mankind, and makes the creation
“subject to vanity” and corruption. O if ye believe this, you would find more need of the second
Adam than you do! O how precious would his righteousness and obedience be to you, if you had
rightly apprehended your interest in the first man’s disobedience!

But besides this imputation, there is much more propagated unto all, and that is a total corruption
and depravation of nature in soul and body, whereby man is utterly indisposed, disabled, and
made opposite unto all that is truly and spiritually good, and wholly inclined to all evil,
and that continually, which is commonly called original sin,—a total averseness from God and
from all goodness, an antipathy against the ways of holiness,—and a propension and strong impulse
towards evil, even as a stone moves downwards. This poison and contagion of sin entering into
the world hath infected all, and gone through all the members. Neither is it any wonder that
it is so, when this leprosy hath defiled the walls and roof of the house,—I mean, hath made
the creation “subject to vanity” and corruption; it is no wonder that it spread abroad in his
issue, and makes all unclean like himself. And truly this is it which most abases man’s nature,
and, being seen, would most humble men. Yea, till this be discerned, no man can be indeed humbled.
He will never apprehend himself so bad as he is, but still imagine some excellency in himself,
till he see himself in this glass. You talk of good natures, and good dispositions, but in
our flesh, saith the apostle, “dwelleth no good thing.” The seeds of all wickedness are in
every one of us; and it is the goodness of God for preserving of human society, that they are
restrained and kept down in any from the grossest outbreakings. They know not themselves, who
know any good of themselves; and they know not themselves, who either are in admiration at,
or in bitterness or contempt against, other sinners, whose sins are manifest to all. This were
the only way to profit by looking on their evils, if we could straightway retire within and
behold the root of that in ourselves, the fountain of it within us, and so grow in loathing,
not of those persons, but of human nature, and in suitable thoughts of ourselves and others,
and might wonder at the goodness and undeserved bounty of the Lord, that passes an act of restraint
upon our corruption, and dams it up. O that we could learn to loathe ourselves in other men’s
evils! Thus we might reap good out of the evil, and prevent more in ourselves. But the looking
upon gross provocations as singularities, makes them more general, because every man does not
charge himself with the corruption that is in all these, but prefers himself to another. Therefore
are reins loosed to corruption, and a sluice opened that it may come out—that he who would
not see his own image in another’s face, may behold it in the glass of his own abominations.
There is no point less believed than this though generally confessed, that man is dead in sins
and trespasses, and impotent to help himself. You will hardly take with wickedness when you
confess weakness, as if nature were only sick, but not dead,—hurt, but not killed. Therefore
it is that so many do abide in themselves, and trusting to their own good purposes and resolutions
and endeavours, do think to pacify God and help themselves out of their misery. But O look
again, and look in upon yourselves in the glass of the word, and there is no doubt but you
will straightway be filled with confusion of face, and be altogether spoiled of good confidence
and hope, as you call it! You will find yourself plunged in a pit of misery, and all strength
gone, and none on the right hand, or the left to help you; and then, and not till then, will
the second Adam’s hand, stretched out for help, be seasonable.

That which next follows is that which is the companion of sin inseparably,—“Death hath passed
upon all,” and that by sin. Adam’s one disobedience opened a port for all sin to enter upon
mankind, and sin cannot enter without this companion, death. Sin goes before, and death follows
on the back of it; and these suit one another, as the work and the wages, as the tree and the
fruit. They have a fitness one to another. Sowing to corruption reaps an answerable harvest,
to wit, corruption. Sowing to the wind, and reaping the whirlwind, how suitable are they! That
men may know how evil and bitter a thing sin is, he makes this the fruit of it in his first
law and sanction given out to men,—he joins them inseparably,—sin and death, sin and wrath,
sin and a curse. By death is not only meant bodily death, which is the separation of the soul
from the body, but first the spiritual death of the soul, consisting in a separation of the
soul from God’s blessed, enlightening, enlivening, and comforting countenance. Man’s true life,
wherein he differs from beasts, consists in the right aspect of God upon his soul,—in his walking
with God, and keeping communion with him. All things besides this are but common and base,
and this was cut off. His comfort, his joy and peace in God extinct, God became terrible to
his conscience; and therefore man did flee and was afraid, when he heard his voice in the garden.
Sin being interposed between God and the soul, cut off all the influence of heaven. Hence arises
darkness of mind, hardness of heart, delusions, vile affections, horrors of conscience. Look
what difference is between a living creature and a dead carcase, so much is between Adam’s
soul, upright, living in God, and Adam’s soul separated from God by sin. Then upon the outward
man the curse redounds. The body becomes mortal which had been incorruptible. It is now like
a besieged city. Now some outer forts are gained by diseases, now by pains and torments; the
outward walls of the body are at length overcome; and when life hath fled into a castle within
the city, the heart, that is, last of all, besieged so straitly, and stormed so violently,
that it must render unto death upon any terms. The body of man is even a seminary of a world
of diseases and grievances, that if men could look upon it aright, they might see the sentence
of death every day performed. Then how many evils in estate, in friends and relations, in employments,
which being considered by heathens, hath made them praise the dead more than the living, but
him not yet born most of all, because the present life is nothing else but a valley of misery
and tears, a sea of troubles, where one wave continually prevents another, and comes on like
Job’s messengers; before one speaks out his woful tidings, another comes with such like, or
worse. But that which is the sum and accomplishment of God’s curse and man’s misery is that
death to come,—eternal death,—not death simply, but an “everlasting destruction from the presence
of the Lord and the glory of his power;”—an infinite loss, because the loss of such a glorious
life in the enjoyment of God’s presence; and an infinite hurt and torment beside, and both eternal.

Now this is what we would lay before you. You are under such a heavy sentence from the womb,
a sentence of the Almighty, adjudging you for Adam’s guilt and your own, to all the misery
in this world and in the next,—to all the treasures of wrath that are heaped up against the
day of wrath. And strange it is, how we can live in peace, and not be troubled in mind, who
have so great and formidable a party! Be persuaded, O be persuaded, that there shall not one
jot of this be removed,—it must be fulfilled in you or your cautioner! And why then is a Saviour
offered, a city of refuge opened, and secure sinners will not flee into it? But as for as many
as have the inward dreadful apprehension of this wrath to come, and know not what to do, know
that to you is Jesus Christ preached, the second Adam, a quickening spirit, and in that consideration,
better than the first,—not only a living soul himself, but a spirit to quicken you who are
dead in sins,—one who hath undertaken for you, and will hold you fast. Adam, who should have
kept us, lost himself; Christ in a manner lost himself to save us. And as by Adam’s disobedience
all this sin and misery hath abounded on man, know, that the second Adam’s obedience and righteousness
are of greater virtue and efficacy to save and instead of sin to restore righteousness, and
instead of death to give life. Therefore you may come to him, and you shall be more surely
kept than before.

                               Lecture XXV.

Of The Way Of Man’s Delivery. And truly, as it is the most excellent in itself, it could not
but be sweet unto us, if we had received into the heart the belief of our own wretchedness
and misery. I do not know a more sovereign cordial for a fainting soul, than this faithful
saying, “That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.” And therefore we are most
willing to dwell on this subject, and to inculcate it often upon you, that without him you
are undone and lost, and in him you may be saved. I profess, all other subjects, howsoever
they might be more pleasing to some hearers, are unpleasant and unsavoury to me. This is that
we should once learn, and ever be learning—to know him that came to save us, and come to him.

We laboured to show unto you the state of sin and misery that Adam’s first transgression hath
subjected all mankind unto, which if it were really and truly apprehended, I do not think but
it would make this saying welcome to your souls. Man being plunged into such a deep pit of
misery, sin and death having overflowed the whole world, and this being seen and acknowledged
by a sinner, certainly the next question in order of nature is this, hath God left all to perish
in this estate? Is there any remedy provided for sin and misery? And this will be indeed the
query of a self-condemned sinner. Now there is a plank after this broken ship; there is an
answer sweet and satisfactory to this question; “Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners.”

We shall not expatiate into many notions about this, or multiply many branches of this. The
matter is plain and simple, and we desire to hold out plainly and simply, that this is the
remedy of sin and misery. When none could be found on the right hand or left hand, here a Saviour
from heaven comes down from above, whence no good could be expected, because a good God was
provoked. “Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?”—that was a proverb concerning him.
But I think in some sense it might be said, Can any good come down from heaven, from his holy
habitation to this accursed earth? Could any thing be expected from heaven but wrath and vengeance?
And if no good could be expected that way, what way could it come? Sure if not from heaven,
then from no airth.(154) Yet from heaven our help is come, from whence it could not be looked
for,—even from him who was offended, and whose justice was engaged against man. That he might
both satisfy justice and save man,—that he might not wrong himself nor destroy man utterly,—he
sends his only begotten Son, equal with himself in majesty and glory, into the world, in the
state of a servant, to accomplish man’s salvation, and perform to him satisfaction. Therefore
Christ came into the world to save sinners.

There were two grand impediments in the way of man’s salvation, which made it impossible to
man; one is God’s justice, another is man’s sin. These two behoved to be satisfied or removed,
ere there can be access to save a sinner. The sentence of divine justice is pronounced against
all mankind, “death passed upon all,”—a sentence of death and condemnation. Now, when the righteousness
and faithfulness of God is engaged unto this, how strong a party do you think that must be?
What power can break that prison of a divine curse, and take out a sinner from under Justice’s
hand? Certainly there is no coming out till the uttermost farthing be paid that was owing,—till
complete satisfaction be given for all wrongs. Now, truly, the redemption of the soul had ceased
for ever—it is so precious that no creature can give any thing in exchange for it—except Jesus
Christ had come into the world, one that might be able to tread that wine-press of wrath alone,
and give his life a ransom, in value far above the soul, and pay the debt of sin that we were
owing to God. And, indeed, he was furnished for this purpose, a person suited and fitted for
such a work—a man, to undertake it in our name, and God, to perform it in his own strength—a
man, that he might be made under the law, and be humbled even to the death of the cross, that
so he might obey the commandment, and suffer the punishment due to us; and all this was elevated
beyond the worth of created actions or sufferings, by that divine nature. This perfumed all
his humanity, and all done by it, or in it. This put the stamp of divinity upon all, and imposed
an infinite value upon the coin of finite obedience and sufferings. And so in his own person,
by coming into the world, and acting and suffering in the place of sinners, he hath taken the
first great impediment out of the way; taken down the high wall of divine justice which had
enclosed round about the sinner, and satisfied all its demands, by paying the price; so that
there is nothing upon God’s part to accuse or condemn, to hinder or obstruct salvation.

But then there is an inner wall, or dark dungeon of sin, into which the sinner is shut up,
and reserved in chains of his own lusts, until the time of everlasting darkness; and when heaven
is opened by Christ’s death, yet this keeps a sinner from entering in. Therefore Jesus Christ,
who came himself into the world to satisfy justice and remove its plea, that there might be
no obstruction from that airth, he sends out his powerful Spirit with the word, to deliver
poor captive sinners, to break down the wall of ignorance and blindness, to cast down the high
tower of wickedness and enmity against God, to take captive and chain our lusts that kept us
in bondage. And, as he made heaven accessible by his own personal obedience and sufferings,
so he makes sinners ready and free to enter into that salvation by his Spirit’s working in
their persons. In the one, he had God, as it were, his party, and him he hath satisfied so
far, that there was a voice came from heaven to testify it, “This is my beloved Son, in whom
I am well pleased;” and therefore, in testimony of it, God raised him from the dead. In the
other, he hath Satan and man’s wicked nature as his party, and these he must conquer and subdue.
These he must overcome, ere we can be saved. A strange business indeed, and a great work, to
bring two such opposite and distant parties together,—a holy and just God, and a sinful and
rebellious creature; and to take them both as parties, that he might reconcile both.

Now what do you think of this, my beloved, that such a glorious person is come down from heaven,
for such a work as the salvation of sinners? I put no doubt, it would be most acceptable unto
you, if you knew your misery, and knowing your misery, you could not but accept it, if you
believed that it were true and faithful. I find one of these two the great obstruction in the
way of souls receiving advantage by such glad tidings. Either the absolute necessity and excellency
of the gospel is not considered, or the truth and reality of it is not believed. Men either
do not behold the beauty of goodness in it, or do not see the light of truth in it. Either
there is nothing discovered to engage their affections, or nothing seen to persuade their understandings.
Therefore the apostle sounds a trumpet, as it were, in the entry, before the publication of
these glad news, and commends this unto all men as a true and faithful saying, and as worthy
of all acceptation. There is here the highest truth and certainty to satisfy the mind: It “is
a faithful saying.” And there is here also the chiefest good to satiate the heart: It is “worthy
of all acceptation.” Now, if you do really apprehend your lost and miserable estate, you cannot
but behold that ravishing goodness in it; and behold that you cannot, till you see the other
first. Whence is it, I pray you, that so many souls are never stirred with the proposition
of such things in the gospel,—that the riches and beauty of salvation in Jesus Christ doth
not once move them?

Courteous Reader,—It floweth more from that observance—not to say honour—which is due to the
laws of custom, than from any other motive, that the stationers hold it expedient to salute
thee at thy entry into this book, by any commendatory epistle, having sufficient experience,
that books are oft inquired after, and rated according to the respect men generally have of
the author, rather than from the matter contained therein, especially if the book be divine
or serious; upon which ground this treatise might have come abroad merely upon the virtue of
the title page,—Mr. Hugh Binning being so well known, and his other treatise so universally,
as deserving, received by the intelligent and studious in the great mysteries of the Trinity,
and other dark principles of the Christian faith.

Yet if worthiness of matter—as the curious carved stones of the temple were to the disciples—be
amiable to thine eyes, and nervous sentences, solid observations, with a kind of insinuating,
yet harmless behaviour, be taking with thy spirit, here they are also, and acquainting thyself
with them, either as the sinner or the saint, which thine own conscience shall best inform
thee of, there shall be virtue found to proceed from them, either for thy souls refining from
the dross of this corrupt age, or to a diligent heed taking to preserve thyself pure from the
pollutions which are in the world through lust, to be more and more pure against the day and
coming of Christ our Saviour.

Though many elaborate pieces are already extant, and treatises of many worthies of the church
be already abroad upon this golden chapter, yet he who hath seen the manyest, and knows the
sublimity and darkness withal the excellency of the subjects therein treated, shall know this
work, or lamp, to have its weight and light and though small, yet as a candle, shall increase,
and add to those lights already burning upon the table of his memory or museol.(156) There
is but one Spirit, one faith, one baptism, yet about and in these, there are diversities of
gifts, and though all men naturally have but one face, yet the variety to be seen in each one,
procureth both wonder and delight, there being in every one something new, something which
makes it differ from all other. There is here to be found something enlarged, enlightened,
and applied, which in other volumes may not be heeded, or but slenderly touched, or if it were
otherwise, here it is in some other way, method, or expression; besides which, there is no
new thing under the sun. And have we not, nay, choose we not, to have variety of gems, agates,
rubies, and diamonds shining about us, some squared, some angled, each having their own excellency,
because so formed? If this instance take not, it is because the children of this generation
are wiser than the children of light.

That the work is imperfect, is for a lamentation save for this, that while the author was contemplating
upon the Spirit of adoption, and being with God, the Spirit called upon him by death, as the
voice did upon the divine, saying, “Come up hither, and I will show thee,” Rev. iv. 1. So that
what David said of the waters of Bethlehem, may be said of this lame orphan, “Is not this the
blood of this good man?” The great and wise Master builder of the church, giving this young
man order to lay the foundation, and raise the building but thus high, appointing, it must
be, some others to perfect and lay on the roof, yea, possibly it is squared and framed already
for thy use in other treatises, and thyself to perfect the edifice of the salvation, by joining
this and that together in thy practice. Mr. Hugh Binning, showing thee in his lot, how to be
rid of, or delivered from the law’s condemnation, ver 1, and some other in his quarter to demonstrate
because of that, “neither height nor depth shall be able to separate thee from the love of
God,” ver. 39 of this chapter.

Had this work come directly from the authors own hands, he had spoken in his own style, his
own mind; but that being denied, receive this posthume infant, as David did Mephibosheth, first,
for its father’s sake, next for its own. Though it be lame in the feet, yet it is of goodly
countenance, and speaketh so well, that its language hath got an imprimatur, and where it is
silent rest satisfied with that old refreshing cordial in such cases, cætera desiderantur.

Sermon I.

    Rom. viii. 1.—“There is therefore now no condemnation to them
    which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after
    the Spirit.”

There are three things which concur to make man miserable,—sin, condemnation, and affliction.
He possesses “months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed” for him. Job v. 6, 7, vii.
3. He “is of few days and full of trouble,” Job xiv. 1. Heathens have had many meditations
of the misery of man’s life, and in this have outstripped the most part of Christians. We recount
amongst our miseries, only some afflictions and troubles, as poverty, sickness, reproach, banishment,
and such like. They again have numbered even these natural necessities of men amongst his miseries,—to
be continually turned about, in such a circle of eating, drinking, and sleeping. What burden
should it be to an immortal spirit to roll about perpetually that wheel! We make more of the
body than of the soul. They have accounted this body a burden to the soul. They placed posterity,
honour, pleasure, and such things, which men pour out their souls upon, amongst the greatest
miseries of men, as vanity in themselves, and vexation, both in the enjoying and losing of
them, but, alas! they knew not the fountain of all this misery,—sin and the accomplishment
of this misery,—condemnation. They thought trouble came out of the ground and dust, either
by a natural necessity, or by chance, but the word of God discovereth unto us the ground of
it, and the end of it. The ground and beginning of it was man’s defection from God, and walking
according to the flesh, and from this head have all the calamities and streams of miseries
in the world issued. It hath not only redounded to men, but even to the whole creation, and
subjected it to vanity, ver. 20 of this chapter. Not only shall thou, O man, (saith the Lord
to Adam,) eat thy meat in sorrow, but thy curse is upon the ground also, and thou who wast
immortal, shalt return to that dust which thou magnifiedst above thy soul, Gen. iii. 17. But
the end of it is suitable to the beginning. The beginning had all the evil of sin in it, and
the end hath all the evil of punishment in it. These streams of this life’s misery, they run
into an infinite, boundless, and bottomless ocean of eternal wrath. If thou live according
to the flesh, thou shalt die, it is not only death here, but eternal death after this. The
miseries then of this present life are not a proportionable punishment of sin, they are but
an earnest given of that great sum which is to be paid in the day of accounts, and that is
condemnation, “everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and the glory of his
power.” Now, as the law discovers the perfect misery of mankind, so the gospel hath brought
to light a perfect remedy of all this misery. Jesus Christ was manifested to take away sin,
and therefore his name is Jesus, “for he shall save his people from their sins.” This is the
Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. Judgment was by one unto condemnation of
all, but now there is “no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus,” so these two evils
are removed, which indeed have all evil in them. He takes away the curse of the law, being
made under it, and then he takes away the sin against the law by his Holy Spirit. He hath a
twofold virtue, for he came by blood and water, (1 John v. 6, 7,)—by blood, to cleanse away
the guilt of sin, and by water, to purify us from sin itself. But in the meantime, there are
many afflictions and miseries upon us, common to men: why are not these removed by Christ?
I say, the evil of them is taken away, though themselves remain. Death is not taken away, but
the sting of death is removed. Death, afflictions, and all, are overcome by Jesus Christ, and
so made his servants to do us good. The evil of them is God’s wrath and sin, and these are
removed by Jesus Christ. Now they would be taken away indeed, if it were not good they remained,
for “all things work together for good to them that love God.” ver. 28. So then we have a most
complete deliverance in extent, but not in degree. Sin remains in us but not in dominion and
power. Wrath sometimes kindles because of sin, but it cannot increase to everlasting burnings.
Afflictions and miseries may change their name, and be called instructions and trials,—good
and not evil; but Christ hath reserved the full and perfect delivery till another day, which
is therefore called “the day of complete” redemption, and then all sin, all wrath, all misery,
shall have an end, and “be swallowed up of life and immortality,” ver. 23.

This is the sum of the gospel, and this is the substance of this chapter. There is a threefold
consolation answerable to our threefold evils there is “no condemnation to them which are in
Christ.” Here is a blessed message to condemned lost sinners who have that sentence within
their breasts, ver. 1. This was the end of Christ’s coming and dying, that he might deliver
us from sin as well as death, and the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, and
therefore he hath given the Holy Spirit, and dwells in us by the Spirit, to quicken us who
are “dead in trespasses and sins.” O what consolation will this be to souls, that look upon
the body of death within them, as the greatest misery, and do groan with Paul, O wretched man
that I am! &c., Rom. vii. 24. This is held forth to ver. 17. But because there are many grounds
of heaviness and sadness in this world, therefore the gospel opposes unto all these, both our
expectation which we have of that blessed hope to come, whereof we are so sure, that nothing
can frustrate us of it, and also the help we get in the meantime of the Spirit to hear our
infirmities, and to bring all things about for good to us, ver. 28. And from all this the believer
in Jesus Christ hath ground of triumph and boasting before the perfect victory,—even as Paul
doth in the name of believers, from ver. 31 to the end. Upon these considerations, he that
cried out not long ago, “O miserable man, who shall deliver me?” doth now cry out, “who shall
condemn me?” The distressed wrestler becomes a victorious triumpher; the beaten soldier becomes
more than a conqueror. O that your hearts could be persuaded to hearken to this joyful sound—to
embrace Jesus Christ for grace and salvation! How quickly would a song of triumph in him swallow
up all your present complaints and lamentations!

All the complaints amongst men may be reduced to one of these three. I hear the most part bemoaning
themselves thus: Alas, for the miseries of this life, this evil world! Alas for poverty, for
contempt, for sickness! Oh! miserable man that I am, who will take this disease away? Who will
show me any good thing, (Psal. iv. 6,) any temporal good? But if ye knew and considered your
latter end, ye would cry out more, ye would refuse to be comforted, though these miseries were
removed. But I hear some bemoaning themselves more sadly—they have heard the law, and the sentence
of condemnation is within them. The law hath entered and killed them. Oh! “what shall I do
to be saved?” Who will deliver me from the wrath to come? What are all present afflictions
and miseries in respect of eternity? Yet there is one moan and lamentation beyond all these,
when the soul finds the sentence of absolution in Jesus Christ, and gets its eyes opened to
see that body of death and sin within, that perfect man of sin diffused throughout all the
members. Then it bemoans itself with Paul—“O wretched man—who shall deliver me from this body
of death?” Rom. vii. 24. I am delivered from the condemnation of the law, but what comfort
is it, as long as sin is so powerful in me? Nay, this makes me often suspect my delivery from
wrath and the curse, seeing sin itself is not taken away.

Now, if you could be persuaded to hearken to Jesus Christ, and embrace this gospel, O what
abundant consolation should ye have! What a perfect answer to all your complaints! They would
be swallowed up in such a triumph as Paul’s are here. This would discover unto you a perfect
remedy of sin and misery, that ye should complain no more, or at least, no more as those without
hope. You shall never have a remedy of your temporal miseries unless ye begin at eternal, to
prevent them. “Seek first the kingdom of God,” and all other things “shall be added unto you.”
Seek first to flee from the wrath to come, and ye shall escape it, and besides the evil of
time, afflictions shall be removed. First remove the greatest complaints of sin and condemnation,
and how easy is it to answer all the lamentations of this life, and make you rejoice in the
midst of them!

You have in this verse three things of great importance to consider,—the great and precious
privilege, the true nature, and the special property of a Christian. The privilege is one of
the greatest in the world, because it is of eternal consequence, and soul concernment, the
nature is most divine,—he is one that is in Jesus Christ, and implanted in him by faith, his
distinguishing property is noble, suitable to his nature and privileges,—he walks not as the
world, according to his base flesh, but according to the Spirit. All these three are of one
latitude,—none of them reaches further than another. That rich privilege and sweet property
concentres and meets together in one man, even in the man who is in Jesus Christ. Whoever enters
into Jesus Christ, and abideth in him, he meets with these two, justification and sanctification,
these are nowhere else, and they are there together.

If ye knew the nature and properties of a Christian, ye would fall in love with these for themselves,
but if these for your own sakes will not allure you, consider this incomparable privilege that
he hath beyond all others, that ye may fall in love with the nature of a Christian. Let this
love of yourselves and your own well-being pursue you into Jesus Christ, that ye may walk even
as he walked, and I assure you, if ye were once in Christ Jesus, ye would love the very nature
and walking of a Christian, no more for the absolution and salvation that accompanies it, but
for its own sweetness and excellency beyond all other. Ye would, as the people of Samaria,
no more believe for the report of your own necessity and misery, but ye would believe in Jesus
Christ, and walk according to the Spirit, for their own testimony they have in your consciences.
You would no more be allured only with the privileges of it to embrace Christianity, but you
would think Christianity the greatest privilege, a reward unto itself. Pietas ipsa sibi merces
est,—godliness is great gain in itself, though it had not such sweet consequents or companions.
That you may know this privilege, consider the estate all men are into by nature. Paul expresses
it in short, Rom. v. “By the offence of one, judgment came upon all unto condemnation and the
reason of this is, by one man sin came upon all, and so death by sin, for death passed upon
all, because all have sinned,” ver. 18, 12. Lo, then, all men are under a sentence of condemnation
once! This sentence is the curse of the law—“Cursed is every one that abideth not in all things
commanded to do them.” If you knew what this curse were, ye would indeed think it a privilege
to be delivered from it. Sin is of an infinite deserving, because against an infinite God,
it is an offence of an infinite majesty, and therefore the curse upon the sinner involves eternal
punishment. O what weight is in that word, (2 Thess. i. 9,) Ye “shall be punished with everlasting
destruction from the presence of the Lord and the glory of his power.” If it were duly apprehended,
it would weigh down a man’s soul, and make it heavy unto death. This condemnation includes
both damnum et pœnam, pœnam damni et pœnam sensus, and both are infinite in themselves, and
eternal in their continuance. What an unpleasant and bitter life would one lead, that were
born to a kingdom, and yet to be banished it and lose it? But what an incomparable loss is
it to fall from an heavenly kingdom, which heart cannot conceive, and that for ever? In God’s
favour is life, and in his presence are rivers of pleasures for evermore. When your petty penny
losses do so much afflict your spirits, what would the due apprehension of so great a loss
do? Would it not be death unto you, and worse than death, to be separated from this life, to
be eternally banished from the presence of his glory? If there should be no more punishment
but this only; if the wicked were to endure for ever on earth, and the godly, whom they despised
and mocked, were translated to heaven, what torment would it be to your souls to think upon
that blessedness which they enjoy above, and how foolishly ye have been put by it for a thing
of no value? What would a rich man’s advantages and gains be to him, when he considereth what
an infinite loser he is? How he hath sold a kingdom for a dunghill? Now if there were any hope,
that after some years his banishment from heaven might end, this might refresh him, but there
is not one drop of such consolation. He is banished, and eternally banished, from that glorious
life in the presence of God, which those do enjoy whom he despised. If a man were shut up all
his life-time in a pit, never to see the light once more, would not this be torment enough
to him? But when withal there is such pain joined with this loss; when all this time he is
tormented within with a gnawing worm, and without with fire; those senses that did so greedily
hunt after satisfaction to themselves, are now as sensible in the feeling of pain and torment.
And when this shall not make an end, but be eternal, O whose heart can consider it! It is the
comfort and ease of bodily torments here, that they will end in death. Destruction destroys
itself, in destroying the body; but here is an immortal soul to feed upon, and at length the
body shall be immortal. That destruction cannot quite destroy it, but shall be an everlasting
destruction and living death.

This is the sentence that is once passed against us all in the word of God, and not one jot
of this word shall fall to the ground: heaven and earth may fail sooner. Ye would think it
were an irrepealable decree, if all the nations in the earth, and angels above, convened to
adjudge a man to death, did pass sentence upon him. Nay, but this word that is daily spoken
to you, which passeth this sentence upon you all, is more certain: and this sentence of death
must be executed, unless ye be under that blessed exception made here and elsewhere in the
gospel. I beseech you, consider what it is to have such a judge condemning you. Would not any
of you be afraid, if ye were under the sentence of a king? If that judgment were above your
head, who of you would sit in peace and quietness? Who would not flee from the wrath of a king,
that is like the roaring of a lion? But there is a sentence of the King of kings and nations
above your heads. “Who would not fear thee,” to whom it doth appertain, “O King of nations?”
It is not a great man that can destroy the body, that is against thee; it is not he who hath
power to kill thee, and he hath also a great desire so to do. This were indeed much; but it
is the great and eternal Jehovah, who lifts up his hand to heaven, and swears he lives forever,—he
is against thee. He who hath all power over body and soul is against thee, and so is obliged
to improve his omnipotency against thee; he can kill both soul and body, and cast them into
hell, and by virtue of this curse he will not spare thee, but pour out all the curses in this
book. Thou wouldst be at no peace if thou wert declared rebel by the king and parliament; but
alas! that is a small thing. They can but reach thy body, nay, neither can they always do that;
thou mayest flee from them, but whither canst thou flee from him? Thou canst not go out of
his dominions; for the earth is his, and the sea, and all that therein is. Darkness cannot
hide thee from him. He may spare long, because he can certainly overtake when he pleases; men
may not, because they have no assurance of finding. I beseech you, then, consider this. It
is of soul consequence; and what hath a man gained, if he gain the world, and lose his soul?
If the gainer be lost, what is gained? And it is of eternal consequence; and what are many
thousand years to this? You can look beyond all these, and might comfort yourselves in hope;
but you cannot see to the end of this. There is still more before than is past; nay, there
is nothing past,—it is still as beginning.

O that ye would consider this curse of God that stands registrate upon us all? What effects
had it on Christ, when he did bear it? It made his soul heavy to death:—it was a cup that he
could scarcely drink. He that supported the frame of this world was almost near succumbing
under the weight of this wrath. It made him sweat blood in the garden. He that could do all
things, and speak all things, was put to this, “What shall I say?” When this condemnation was
so terrible to him, who was that Mighty One upon whom all help was laid, what shall it be to
you? No man’s sorrow was ever like his, nor pain ever like his, if all the scattered torments
were united in one; but because he was God he overcame, and came out from under it. But what
do you think shall be the estate of those who shall endure that same torment?—and not for three
days, or three years, or some thousands of years, but beyond imagination,—to all eternity?

I beseech you consider this condemnation which ye are adjudged unto, and do not lie under it.
Do ye think ye can endure what Christ endured? Do ye think ye can bear wrath according to God’s
power and justice? And yet the judgment is come upon all men to this condemnation. But alas!
who fears him according to his wrath? Who knows the power of his anger? Ye sleep secure, as
if all matters were past and over your head. We declare unto you in the Lord’s name, that this
condemnation is yet above you, because you have not judged yourselves. It is preached unto
you that ye may flee from it; but since ye will not condemn yourselves, this righteous Judge
must condemn you.

Now, since it is so, that such a condemnatory sentence is passed on all men, what a privilege
must it be, to be delivered from it,—to have that sentence repealed by some new act of God’s
mercy and favour? David proclaims him a blessed man whose sins are forgiven and covered; and
indeed he is blessed who escapes that pit of eternal misery, though there were no more. Though
there were no title to an inheritance and kingdom above, to be delivered from that wrath to
come upon the children of disobedience, this is more happiness than the enjoyment of all earthly
delights. “What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?” “Skin for skin, yea, all that a
man hath will he give for his life.” These riches and advantages and pleasures that men spend
their labour for, all these they part with in such a hazard. The covetous man, he will cast
his coffers overboard ere he will lose his life; the voluptuous man, he will suffer pain and
torment in cutting off a member, ere he die. But if men knew their souls, and what an immortality
and eternity expects them, they would not only give skin for skin, and all that they have,
for their soul, but their life also. Ye would choose to die a thousand deaths to escape this
eternal death. But “what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?” Matt. xvi. 26; though
he would give, yet what hath he to give? There are two things endear any privilege to us, and
heighten the rate of it,—the necessity of it, and the preciousness of it; and these two are
eminent here. Is it not necessary to be, to live, and have a being? All men think so, when
they will give all they have to redeem themselves. All other things are accidental to them,
they are nearest to themselves; therefore all must go, ere themselves go. But I say this is
more necessary,—to be well eternally, than to be simply; to escape this condemnation, than
to have a being. And this shall be verified in the last day, when men shall cry for hills and
mountains to fall on them, and save them from the wrath of the Lamb, Rev. vi. 16. Men will
choose rather not to be, than to fall in that wrath. O how acceptable would a man’s first nothing
be to him in that great day of wrath! Who shall be able to stand in it?—when kings and princes,
bond and free, great and small, shall desire mountains to grind them into powder, rather than
to hear that sentence of condemnation, and yet shall not obtain it. O blessed are all they
that trust in him, “when his wrath is kindled but a little,” Ps. ii. 12. Ye toil and vex yourselves,
and spend your time about that body and life; but for as precious as they are to you now, ye
would exchange them one day for immunity and freedom from this wrath and curse. How will that
man think his lines are fallen in pleasant places,—how will he despise the glory of earthly
kingdoms, though all united in one,—who considers in his heart how all kings, all tongues and
nations, must stand before the judgment-seat of God, and the books of his law be opened, to
judge them by, as also the books of their consciences, to verify his accusation, and precipitate
their own sentence, and then, in the open view of all the sons of Adam, and the angels, all
secrets be brought out,—their accusation read as large as their life-time, and as many curses
be pronounced against every one, as there be breaches of the law of God, whereof they are found
guilty; and then all these will seek into corners, and cry for mountains, but there is no covering
from his presence. What do ye think the man will think within himself, who will stand before
God, and be absolved in judgment by Jesus Christ, notwithstanding his provocations above many
of them? What will a king then think of his crown and dominions, when he reflects on them?
What will the poor persecuted Christian then think of all the glory and perfection of this
world, when he looks back upon it? O know, poor foolish men, what madness is in venturing your
souls for trifles! Ye run the hazard of all greatest things for a poor moment’s satisfaction.
Ye will repent it too late, and become wise to judge yourselves fools, when there is no place
to mend it.

But this privilege is no more necessary than it is precious. Your souls are now kept captive
under that sentence of everlasting imprisonment. Ye are all prisoners, and know not of it.
What will ye give in ransom for your souls? Your sins and iniquities have sold you to the righteous
Judge of all the earth, as malefactors, and he hath passed a sentence of your perpetual imprisonment
under Satan’s custody in hell. Now what will you give to redeem your souls from that pit? How
few know the worth of their souls! And so they offer unto God some of their riches for them.
Doth not many of you think ye have satisfied for sins, if ye pay a civil penalty to the judge?
Many think their own tears and sorrow for sin may be a price to justice, at least if it be
joined with amendment in time coming. And so men conceive their sins are pardoned, and their
souls redeemed. But alas! the redemption of the soul is precious, yea, it ceaseth for ever;
all your substance will be utterly contemned, though ye offered it. How few of you would give
so much for your souls! And yet though ye give it, it will not do it,—ye must pay the uttermost
farthing, or nothing. Your sorrow and reformations will not complete the sum, no, nor begin
it. “Though thou wash thee with nitre, and take much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before
me,”—yet there is still condemnation for thee. Though all the world should convene about this
matter, to find a ransom for man; suppose all the treasures of monarchs, the mines and bowels
of the earth, the coffers of rich men were searched; nay, let the earth, the sea, the heavens,
and sun and moon be prized at the highest;—join all the merits of angels above and men below,
all their good actions and sufferings, yet the sum that amounts of all that addition, would
not pay the least farthing of this debt. The earth would say, it is not in me; the heaven behoved
to answer so; angels and men might say, we have heard of it, but it is hid from all living.
Where then is this redemption from the curse? Where shall a ransom be found? Indeed God hath
found it; it is with him. He hath given his Son a ransom for many, and his blood is more precious
than souls,—let be(157) gold and silver. Is not this then a great privilege, that if all the
kingdoms of the world were sold at the dearest, yet they could not buy it? What a jewel is
this! What a pearl! Whoever of you have escaped this wrath, consider what is your advantage.
O consider your dignity ye are advanced unto, that you may engage your hearts to him, to become
his, and his wholly! for “ye are bought with a price,” and are no more your own; he gave himself
for you, and was made a curse to redeem you from the curse. O how should you walk as privileged
men, as redeemed ones!

I beseech you all to call home your thoughts, to consider and ponder on this sentence that
is passed against us. There is now hope of delivery from it, if ye will take it home unto you;
but if ye will still continue in the ways of sin, without returning, know this, that ye are
but multiplying those curses, platting many cords of your iniquities, to bind you in everlasting
chains. Ye are but digging a pit for your souls, ye that sweat in your sins, and travel in
them, and will not embrace this ransom offered. The key and lock of that pit is eternal despair.
O consider how quickly your pleasures and gains will end, and spare some of your thoughts from
present things, to give them to eternity, that thread spun out for ever and ever;—the very
length of the days of the Ancient of days, who hath no beginning of days nor end of time! Remember
now of it, lest ye become as long miserable as God is blessed, and that is for ever.

All men would desire to have privileges beyond others, but there is one that carries it away
from all the world, and that is the believer in Jesus Christ, who is said to be in Christ,
implanted in him by faith, as a lively member of that body whereof Christ is the head. Christ
Jesus is the head of that body, the church; and this head communicates life unto all the members,
for “he filleth all in all.” There is a mighty working power in the head, which diffuseth itself
throughout the members, Eph. i. 19, 22, 23. There are many expressions of union between Christ
and believers. There is no near conjunction among men, but this spiritual union of Christ with
believers is represented to us under it. 20, 21. The head and members are near united, so is
Christ and believers; they “grow up into him,” Eph. iv. 15. Parents and children are almost
one, so is Christ Jesus the everlasting Father, and he shows to the Father the children which
he hath given him. We are his brethren, and he is not ashamed to call us so; but which is more,
we are one flesh with him. There is a marriage between Christ and the church, and this is the
great meditation of the song of Solomon. He is the vine tree, and we are branches planted in
him. Nay, this union is so strict, that it is mutual, “I in them,” and they “in me.” Christ
dwelleth in us by faith, by making us to believe in him, and love him; we dwell in Christ by
that same faith and love, by believing in him, and loving him. Christ Jesus is our house where
we get all our furniture; he is our store-house and treasure, our place of strength and pleasure,
a city of refuge, a strong tower and a pleasant river to refresh us. We again are his habitation
where he dwelleth by his Spirit; we are his workhouse, where he works all his curious pieces
of the new creature, forming it unto the day of his espousals, the great day of redemption.

This gives us to understand what we once were. We may stand here and look back upon our former
condition, and find matter both of delight and sorrow. We were once without Christ in the world,
and if without Christ, then without “hope and without God in the world,” Eph. ii. 12. I wish
this were engraven on the hearts of men, that they are born out of Christ Jesus; wild olives,
growing up in the stock of degenerated Adam. He was once planted a noble vine; but how quickly
turned he into a degenerate plant, and instead of grapes, brought forth wild grapes, and sour!
We all grow upon an “olive tree which is wild by nature,” Rom. xi. 24. It grows out of the
garden of God, in the barren wilderness, and is meet for nothing but to bring forth fruit unto
death, to be cut down and cast into the fire. It is a tree which the Lord hath cursed,—“never
more fruit grow upon thee henceforth:” this was the fatal sentence pronounced on Adam. O that
you would know your condition by nature! how all your good inclinations, dispositions, and
education, cannot make your stock good, and your fruit good! “Israel is an empty vine,”—this
is our name. Nay, but many think they bring forth fruit. Have not heathens spread forth their
branches, and brought forth many pleasant fruits of temporal patience, sobriety, magnanimity,
prudence, and such like? Do not some civil men many acts of civility profitable to men? Doth
not many a man pray and read the scriptures from his youth up? Yes, indeed, these are fruits,
but for all that, he is an empty vine, for he brings forth fruit to himself; and so, as in
the original, he is a vine emptying the fruit which it gives, Hos. x. 1. All these fruits are
but to himself, and from himself; he knows not to direct these to God’s glory, but to his own
praise or advantage, to make them his ornament; and he knows not his own emptiness, to seek
all his furniture and sap from another. What were all these fair blossoms and fruits of heathens?
Indeed they were more and better than any now upon the multitude of professed Christians: and
yet these were but splendida peccata, shining sins. What is all your praying and fasting, but
to yourselves, as the Lord charges the people, Zech. vii. “Did ye at all fast unto me?” No,
ye do it to yourselves. Here is the wildness and degenerateness of your natures. Either you
bring forth very bitter fruits, such as intemperance, avarice, contention, swearing, &c., or
else fruits that have nothing but a fair skin, like apples of Sodom that are beautiful on the
tree, but being handled, turn to ashes; so there is nothing of them from God, or to God. I
think every man almost entertains this secret persuasion in his breast,—that his nature may
be weak, yet it is not wicked; it may be helped with education, and care, and diligence, and
dressed till it please God, and profit others. Who is persuaded in heart that he is an enemy
to God, and cannot be subject to God’s law? Who believes that his “heart is desperately wicked?”
Oh! it is indeed “deceitful above all things,” and in this most deceitful, that it persuades
you ye have a good heart to God. Will not profane men, whose hands are defiled, maintain the
uprightness of their hearts? Nemo nascitur bonus sed fit. I beseech you once, consider that
ye are born out of Christ Jesus. Ye conceive that ye are born and educated Christians; ye have
that name indeed from infancy, and are baptized. But I ask about the thing; baptism of water
doth not implant you into Jesus Christ. Nay, it declares this much unto you, that by nature
ye are far off from Jesus, and wholly defiled,—all your imaginations only evil. Now, I beseech
you, how came the change? Or is there a change? Are not the most part of men the old men,—no
new creatures? He that is in Christ is a new creature, 2 Cor. v. 17. Ye have now Adam’s nature,
which ye had first. Ye have borne the image of the earthly, and are ye not such yet, who are
still earthly? Think ye that ye can inherit the kingdom of God thus? Can ye pass over from
a state of condemnation to a state of life and no condemnation, without a change? No, believe
it, ye cannot inherit incorruption with flesh and blood, which ye were born with. Ye must be
implanted in the second Adam, and bear his image, ere ye can say that ye are partakers of his
blessings, 1 Cor. xv. 47-49, &c. Now I may pose your consciences,—how many of you are changed?
Are not the most part of you even such as ye were from your childhood? Be not deceived, ye
are yet strangers from the promises of God, and without this hope in the world.

Sermon II.

    Verse 1.—“There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are
    in Christ Jesus, &c.”

All the promises are yea and amen in Christ Jesus; they meet all in him and from him are derived
unto us. When man was in integrity, he was with God, and in God, and that immediately, without
the intervention of a Mediator. But our falling from God hath made us without God, and the
distance is so great, as Abraham speaks to the rich man, that neither can those above go down
to him, nor he come up to them. There is a gulf of separation between God and us, that there
can be no meeting. And so we who are without God, are without hope in the world, Eph. ii. 12;
no hope of any more access to God as before. The tree of life is compassed about with a flaming
fire and a sword. God is become a consuming fire unto us, that none can come near these everlasting
burnings, much less dwell with them. Since there can be no meeting so, God hath found out the
way how sinners may come to him, and not be consumed. He will meet with us in Jesus Christ,
that living temple, and this is the trysting place.(158) There was a necessity of this Mediator,
to make up the difference, and make a bridge over that gulf of separation, for us to come to
God, and this is his human nature, the new and living way, the vail of his flesh. God is in
Christ therefore, reconciling the world to himself. All the light of consolation and salvation
that is from God, is all embodied in this Sun of righteousness. All the streams of grace and
mercy run in the channel of his well beloved Son. It follows then, that God is not to be found
out of Jesus Christ, and whosoever is without Christ, is without God in the world. “God was
in Christ reconciling the world,” and “there is therefore no condemnation to them that are
in Christ,” but God out of Christ is condemning the world, and therefore condemnation is to
all that are not in Christ. When all the sons of Adam were declared rebels, because of his
and their own rebellion, the Lord hath appointed a city of refuge, that whosoever is pursued
by the avenger of blood, may enter into it, and get protection and safety. Without is nothing
but the sword of the avenger, justice reigning in all the world beside, within this city, justice
may not enter to take out any into condemnation. And therefore those souls that flee for refuge,
to lay hold upon the hope set before them in Jesus Christ, justice may pursue them to the ports
of this city, condemnation may follow them hard, till they enter in, but these may not enter
into the ports of the city. What a miserable estate then are these souls in, that be in their
own natures in the open fields without this city! How many foolish men apprehend no danger,
but sport about the ports of the city of refuge, and will not enter in! O the avenger of blood
shall be upon thee ere thou know, and if it find thee out of the city, woe unto thee! All thy
prayers and entreaties will not prevail. Justice is blind and deaf,—cannot deal partially,
or respect persons, cannot hear thy supplications. It is strange, that men are taken up with
other petty inconsiderable things, and yet neglect to know what this is, to be in Jesus Christ,
upon which their salvation depends.

Faith in Jesus Christ is the soul’s flight into the city of refuge. Now none flieth but when
they apprehend danger, or are pursued. This danger that a soul apprehends, is perishing and
condemnation for ever. The pursuer is the law of God, and his justice, these have a sword in
their hand, the curse of God, and the sentence of condemnation. God erects a tribunal in his
word, wherein he judgeth men. Whosoever he hath a purpose of good-will unto, he makes the law
to enter into their consciences, that the offence might abound. He sends out some messenger
of affliction, or conviction, to bring them before the judgment seat, and hear their accusation
read unto them. There the soul stands trembling, and the conscience witnesseth and approveth
all that the word challengeth of, so that the sinner’s mouth is stopped, and can have no excuse
to this accusation. Then the judge pronounces the sentence upon the guilty person, “Cursed
is every one that abideth not in all things, &c.” The soul cries, Guilty, O Lord, guilty, I
deserve the curse indeed. Oh! “what shall I do to be saved?” Then the soul looks about on the
right hand, and on the left hand, to seek some refuge, but there is none. Whither shall he
go from him? He looks within himself, and beholds nothing within, but the accusing witnessing
conscience becomes a tormentor. The fire is kindled within, which feeds upon the fuel of innumerable
sins. Now the soul is almost overwhelmed, and spies if there be any place to flee to from itself,
and from that wrath, and behold the Lord discovers a city of refuge near hand, where no condemnation
is, even Christ Jesus, who hath sustained the curse, that he might redeem us from it. The vision
of peace is here, and thither the soul flies out of itself, and from justice, into that discovered
righteousness of Christ, and so the more that the offence abounded, now the more hath grace
super-abounded, so that there is now no more condemnation to him.

I beseech you consider this, and let it be written on the table of your hearts. There are two
tribunals that God sits upon,—one out of Christ Jesus, another in Christ Jesus. There is a
throne of justice, where no sentence passes but pure unmixed justice, without any temperament
of mercy and this all men must once compear before. You know what a covenant of works God once
made with us,—if thou do these things thou shalt live, if not, thou shalt die the death. According
to this we must once be judged, that justice suffer no prejudice. Therefore God speaks out
of his law, upon this throne, the language of mount Sinai, he reads our charge unto us, and
because all the world is guilty, therefore the sentence of death is once passed upon all. Now,
whoever of you come before this tribunal to be judged, know that it is a subordinate court,
there is a higher court of mercy and judgment, both justice and mercy mixed together. Though
mercy be the predominant, justice and judgment are the habitation of it, but mercy and truth
go before the Judge’s face, and come nearest sinners to give them access. And this you may
appeal unto from that tribunal of justice. “But there is forgiveness with thee, &c.,” Ps. cxxx.
4, 5. And whoever comes here, Christ Jesus sits on this throne to absolve him from that sentence.
If you ask what equity is in it, is not this a prejudice to justice, and an abomination to
the Lord, to justify the wicked and ungodly sinner? I say, it is no iniquity, because Jesus
Christ hath paid the price for us, and was made a curse for our sins, that we might be the
righteousness of God in him, and therefore it is just with God to forgive sins, to relax that
sinner from the condemnation of the law, that flees into Jesus Christ. You may answer justice—I
will not take this for God’s last word. I hear that all final judgment is committed to the
Son, that he may give life to whom he will; he calls me, and to him will I go, for he hath
the words of eternal life, he will justify, and who shall condemn?

Now, if any man will not now arraign himself before the tribunal of God’s justice, if he will
not search his guiltiness till his mouth be stopped, and hear his sentence of condemnation
read, and take with it,—that man cannot come to Jesus Christ, to be absolved, for he justifieth
none but self-condemned and lost sinners. So your day is but yet coming, when you must answer
to justice. The tribunal of mercy shall be removed, and Christ shall sit upon a throne of pure
justice, to judge those who judged not themselves. Alas for your loss, the most part of you!
I pity you. You live in great peace and quietness without the ports of the city of refuge.
We declare unto you in the Lord’s name, you are under the curse of God: will you yet sit secure,
and put the evil day far from you? Oh! rather trouble your peace for a season, with the consideration
of your sins! Enter into judgment with yourselves till you see nothing but perishing in yourselves;—and
there is no hazard, because salvation is brought near in the gospel. If you would not trouble
yourselves so much as to judge yourselves, then you shall be judged when there is no Mediator
to plead for you, none to appeal unto.

But whosoever takes the sentence of condemnation unto them, and subscribes to the righteousness
of the Lord’s curse upon them, we do invite all such in the Lord’s name, to come in hither,
even to Jesus Christ. There is no condemnation to them that are in him. If you stand scrupulous,
making many questions in such a matter of so great necessity, you wrong your own soul and dishonour
him. Know this, that God is in Christ reconciling the world to himself. Therefore thou condemned
sinner mayest come to God in Christ. If you ask any warrant, we think there should be no such
questioning, when you are in so great necessity. If a man were starving without a city, and
it were told him there is plenty within, were he not a fool that would make any more business,
but labour to enter in? This is enough to cross all your objections; you are in extreme necessity,
and like to perish within yourself; “he is able to save to the uttermost all that come to him.”
What would you more? Let there be then a closure between absolute necessity and sufficient
ability to save. Will you yet stand disputing without the city, when the avenger of blood is
above your head? If you will yet press for some more ground and warrant of believing,—then
I will tell you all that I know is in the word for a ground of faith. You have great misery
and necessity within you,—that you grant, and it is your complaint. Christ hath mercy and sufficiency
of grace in him; he is able to save to the uttermost,—that you cannot deny. But I do add this
third, he is also willing to save thee, whoever will be saved by him; nay, he is more willing
than thou art. If you question this, I desire you but to consider the whole tenor of the gospel.
How many invitations! How many persuasions! How many promises to those who come! Yea, how many
commands, and that peremptory, to believe on him! Yea, how many threatenings against you, if
you will not come to him to have life! Hath he given himself for the sins of the world, and
will he not be willing that sinners partake of that he was at so much pains to purchase? Think
you that Christ will be content his death should be in vain? And it should be in vain, if he
did not welcome the worst sinners; yea, it should be in vain if he did not draw them to him,
and make them willing. But besides this, he hath promised so absolutely, and freely, and fully,
as there should be no exception imaginable against it; “him that cometh to me, I will in no
wise cast out,” John vi. 37. Why do you imagine any case where Christ hath made none? Why do
you sin against your own souls? Oh, if I were in Christ, say you, I would be well! and oh,
that he would welcome such a sinner! Christ answers thee in express terms; “whosoever will,
let him take and drink freely.” Thou declarest thy willingness in so speaking; and he declares
his willingness in so promising. Nay, thy looking afar off on him, is a fruit of his willingness;
“ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you,” and loved you first. If ye will not yet believe
this, look upon his command; this is his command, that ye believe on the Son, 1 John iii. 23.
What warrant have ye to do any duty he commands? And why do ye more question this? Is not this
his command? And is it not more peremptory, because a new command, and his last command? And
when withal he boasts(159) us into his Son, that we may have life, oh, who should have the
face to question any more his willingness! Other grounds than these I know none; and I think
if any come to Christ, or pretend to come, on other grounds, he comes not right. If the most
holy man come not in among ungodly sinners; if he do not walk upon the grounds of his own extreme
necessity, and Christ’s sufficiency, he cannot come to Jesus Christ. There is a conceit among
people, which, if it were not so common as it is, I would not mention it, it is so ridiculous—how
can I come to Christ so unclean and so guilty, nothing but condemnation in me? If I were such
and such, I would come to him. Alas! there can nothing be imagined more absurd, or contrary
even to sense and reason. If thou wert such and such, as thou fanciest a desire to be, thou
wouldst not come to Christ; thou neededst him not. That which thou pretendest as a reason why
thou shouldst not come, is the great reason pressed in the gospel why thou shouldst come. What
madness is this? I am so unclean, I will not come to the fountain to wash;—wherefore was the
fountain opened, but for sin and uncleanness? And the more uncleanness, the more need; and
the more need, the more reason to come. Necessity is a great errand, and our errand is a sufficient
warrant. I am pursued by the law, I have condemnation within me, and nothing but condemnation.
Well then, come to Christ Jesus, the city of refuge, where no condemnation is. Wherefore was
this city appointed, but for this end? I beseech you every one who useth those debates, and
taketh a kind of delight in them, know what they mean, how they wrong your own souls; how they
dishonour Christ, and so God the Father; nay, how foolish and ridiculous they are,—that if
it were not your perplexity indeed, they deserved no answer, but a rebuke or silence. I have
seen people take delight in moving objections against the truth, yea, and study earnestly how
to object against any answers given from the truth. Alas! thou meddlest to thine own hurt;
thou art upon a way which shall never yield thee any comfort, but keep thy soul from establishment,
as a wave tossed up and down! If ye believe not, but dispute, ye shall not be established.

But I would speak a word to those that have believed, that have fled for refuge to Christ.
Oh! it concerns you most of all men to study to know this condemnation that ye are delivered
from, that ye may be thankful, and may keep close within this city. I say, there is no man
within the world should have more thoughts, more deep and earnest meditations on the curse
and wrath of God, than those who are delivered from them through Christ; and my reason is,
that ye may know how great a salvation ye have received, how great a condemnation ye have escaped,
and may henceforth walk as those who are bought with a price. Your creation makes you not your
own, but his, because he gave that being. But your redemption should make you twice more his,
and not your own, because, when that being was worse than if it had not been at all, he made
it over again. So ye are twice his: first, he made you with a word, but now he hath bought
you with a price, and that a dear price,—his blood. Again, the keeping this curse always in
your view and sight and application of it unto your sins, will make much employment for Christ.
O how will ye often flee into that city! I think they are the greatest enemies of Jesus Christ,
and his grace, who would have a believer have no more use of the law. I know not who can use
the law if he do it not. I know not who can apply it unto Christ, the end of it, but he. Certainly
he hath not only use of the commands as a rule of obedience, but the curse also, not to make
him fear again unto bondage; no, no, but to make him see always the more necessity of Jesus
Christ, that he may take up house in him, and dwell in him.

Sermon III.

    Verse 1.—“Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”

It is difficult to determine which of these is the greatest privilege of a Christian,—that
he is delivered from condemnation, or that he is made to walk according to the Spirit, and
made a new creature; whether we owe more to Christ for our justification, or sanctification:
for he is made both to us: but it is more necessary to conjoin them together, than to compare
them with each other. The one is not more necessary—to be delivered from wrath, than the other,
to walk according to the Spirit. I think it were an argument of a soul escaped from condemnation,
to have the great stream and current of its affections and endeavours towards sanctification,
not that they may be accepted of God, but because they are accepted of God. It is not said,
there is nothing condemnable in those that are in Christ, but there is no condemnation to them.
There is, indeed, a body of death, and law of sin within them, a nature defiled with original
pollution, and many streams flowing from it, which the sprinkling of the blood of Christ in
justification doth not take away. If any man say there is no sin in him, he is a liar, and
the truth is not in him. But here is the grace and mercy of God in Jesus Christ; that removes
the curse where the sin is,—that takes away the condemnation where all worthy of condemnation
is. And thus the soul’s justification is parallel to Christ’s condemnation. There was in him
nothing condemnable, no sin, no guile in his mouth; yet there was condemnation to him, because
he was in stead and place of sinners. Our iniquities were laid on him, not in him; he who knew
no sin was made a curse for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So then,
the soul that fleeth into Jesus Christ’s righteousness, though it have in it all that deserveth
condemnation, yet there is no condemnation to it, because his righteousness is laid upon it,
and Christ hath taken away the curse. The innocent Son of God was condemned, therefore are
guilty sinners absolved. The curse was applied unto him who had no sin, but only was made sin,
or sin laid on him, and therefore the sentence of absolution from the curse is applied unto
them who have no righteousness, but are made the righteousness of God by free and gracious
imputation. This I speak, because of many unsavoury and unsound expressions in this loose generation,
that there is no sin in the justified, that justification removes it close, as if it had never
been at all. I say, as the condemnation of Jesus Christ did not blot out his innocency and
holiness within him, but only justice considered him on that account as a transgressor, who
yet was the holy and spotless Lamb of God in himself; so likewise the justification of a sinner
before God, doth not remove or blot out the very corruption and defilement of our natures,
but only scrapes out our names out of the roll of his debtors, as having satisfied in our cautioner,
and considers us as righteous on that account before God. And this likewise I speak for your
use, that ye may loathe and abhor yourselves, as much in yourselves, who are made clean by
the blood of Jesus Christ, as if ye were not washen. Nay, so much the more ye ought to remember
your own sins, which he doth not remember as debt any more; and to be ashamed and confounded
because they are pardoned. It is ordinary for souls to look on themselves with an eye of more
complacency in themselves, when they apprehend that God looks favourably on them. I do not
think that any soul can duly consider the gracious aspect of God in Jesus Christ to them, but
they will the more loathe themselves. But I find it ordinary, that slight and inconsiderate
thoughts of pardon beget jolly conceits in men’s hearts of themselves. And this is even the
sin of God’s children; something is abated of our self-abhorring, when we have peace and favour
spoken unto us. But I beseech all who believe there is no condemnation for them, to consider
there are all things worthy of it in them, yea, nothing but what deserves it; and therefore
let that aspect of God beget self-loathing and self-detestation in you. The more you apprehend
he is pleased with you, be ye the more displeased with yourselves, because it is not yourselves
he is pleased with, but his own well-beloved Son. The day of redemption is coming, when there
shall be no condemnation, and nothing condemnable either. In heaven you shall be so, but while
ye are here, this is the most important duty ye are called to,—to loathe yourselves, because
of all your abominations, and because he is pacified towards you, Ezek. xvi. at the close;
and chap. xxxvi. 31; and xx. 43, 44. There is a new and strange mortification now pleaded for
by many,(160) whose highest advancement consisteth in not feeling, or knowing, or confessing
sin, but in being dead to the sense and conviction of the same. Alas! whither are these reforming
times gone? Is not this the spirit of Antichrist? I confess it is a mortification of godliness,
a crucifying of repentance and holiness, a crucifying of the new man; but it is a quickening
of the old man in the lusts thereof, a living to sin. This is a part of that new (but falsely
so called) gospel that is preached by some; which, if an angel would bring from heaven, we
ought not to believe it. “Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid” already,
upon which the prophets and apostles are builded,—even Christ Jesus. Lord, give the Spirit
to understand these mysteries already revealed; but save us from these new discoveries and
lights. That which we have received is able to make us perfect to salvation.

Every one pretends a claim and right to this privilege of Christians, to be pardoned and absolved
from condemnation, who doth not put it out of question, though in the mean time their iniquities
testify against them; and their transgressions say in the heart of a godly man, that “there
is no fear of God before their eyes.” Therefore the apostle describes the man that is in Jesus
Christ, to be such an one, that walks “not after the flesh, but after the Spirit,”—not only
to guard against the presumptuous fancy of those that live in their sins, that pretend to hope
for heaven, but to stir up every justified soul to a new manner of conversation, since they
are in Jesus Christ. We would speak a word of two things from this: First, That the Scripture
gives marks and characters of justified and reconciled persons, that they may be known by,
both to themselves and others. Next, That, the Christian having escaped condemnation, hath
a new manner of walking, and is a new creature in Christ.

It might seem a strange thing, that this first were questioned in this generation, (if any
the most clear and important truth could pass without scanning) the very tenor of the Scripture
holds out so much of it. I wonder that any man that reads this chapter, or the epistles of
James and John, should have any more doubt of it. “Hereby we do know that we know him, if we
keep his commandments.” Is not this a conclusion of our state and condition, from the conformity
of our walking to the will of God? What divine truth can we be sure of, if this be uncertain?
When the beloved disciple, who knew how to preach Christ, asserts it in express terms, 1 John
v. 13, “These things have I written unto you that believe, that ye may know that ye have eternal
life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.” This very thing was the great
scope and purpose of that evangelic and divine epistle.

I find that Antinomians(161) confound this question, that they may have the more advantage
in their darkness. The question is not concerning the grounds of a man’s believing in Christ,
but concerning our assurance, or knowledge of our believing. There is a great mistake in Christians
practice, in confounding these two. It makes Christians very unreasonable in their doubtings
and exercises; therefore let us have this before our eyes,—faith, in its first and pure acting,
is rather an adherence and cleaving of a lost soul to Christ, than an evidence of its interest
in him, or of his everlasting love. You know all, that it is one thing to know a thing, or
love a thing, and another thing to reflect upon it, and know that I know and love it. John
did write to believers, that they might know they did believe, and believe yet more. These
things then are both separable, and the one is posterior to the other,—“after that ye believed
ye were sealed.” The persuasion of God’s love and our interest in Christ, is the Spirit’s seal
set upon the soul. There is a mutual sealing here. The soul, by believing and trusting in Jesus
Christ, “sets to its seal that God is true,” as John speaks, John iii. 33. When God speaks
in his law, the soul receives that testimony of his justice and holiness, subscribes to the
equity and righteousness of the sentence, by condemning itself. And when Christ speaks in the
gospel, the soul seals that doctrine of free salvation, by approving and consenting with all
its heart to the offer, subscribes to the way of salvation in Christ, and the truth of his
promises. And thus is the truth of God and Christ sealed, by the soul’s believing. Then the
Spirit of Jesus Christ afterward, when he pleaseth, irradiates and shines upon the soul, and
discovers those things that are freely given, and witnesseth to the conscience of the believer,
that he is a son of God. Thus the Spirit seals the believer, and gives his testimony to his
truth.(162)

Now if we speak of the ground of the first, viz. of believing in Christ to salvation, I know
none, but that which is common to sinners, and holden out in the gospel generally to all,—our
sin and misery, and absolute necessity, and Christ’s invitation of all to come, and receive
his full and perfect salvation. And therefore many do corrupt the simplicity of the gospel,
by rigid exactions of preparations, and measures of them, and by making them conditions or
restrictions of gospel commands and promises; as in this, “Come ye that are wearied.” And from
thence they seem to exclude persons not so qualified, from having a warrant to believe. Alas!
it is a great mistake of these and such words. Certainly these are not set down on purpose
to exclude any who will come,—for, “whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely,”
but rather to encourage such wearied and broken souls as conceive themselves to be the only
persons excluded, and to declare unto us in some measure, the nature of true faith, that a
soul must be beaten out of itself, ere it can come to Christ. Therefore, I conclude, that not
only is it a ridiculous and foolish conceit of many Christians that use to object against believing,—if
I were as such and such a person, if I did love God, if I had these fruits of the Spirit, if
I walked according to the Spirit, then I might believe. Alas! how directly opposite is this
to the terms of the gospel! I say, if thou place satisfaction in these, and from that ground
come to Jesus Christ, then thou dost not come really,—thou dost indeed establish thine own
righteousness. Doth any saint, though ever so holy, consider himself under such notions of
grace, when he comes to be justified? No indeed; but as an ungodly man rather, he must deny
all that, though he had it. And besides, it is most unreasonable and incongruous, to seek the
fruits before the tree be planted, and to refuse to plant the tree, till you can behold the
fruits of it. But also, it is contrary to the free and comfortable doctrine of the gospel,
for a soul to seek the discovery of any thing in itself but sin, before it apply to Jesus Christ.
I say, there must be some sense of sin, otherwise it hath not rightly discovered sin, but a
soul should not be at the pains to discover that sense of sin, and find it out, so as to make
it a motive of believing in Christ. He ought to go straight forward, and not return as he goes.
He must indeed examine himself,—not to find himself a sensible humble sinner, that so he may
have ground of believing, but that he may find himself a lost perishing sinner, void of all
grace and goodness, that he may find the more necessity of Jesus Christ. And thus I think the
many contentions about preparations of conditions preparatory to believing, may be reconciled.
It being known that these have a necessary connection together in the Scriptures, and it being
also known that the one is more obvious and easy to be discerned than the other. Sure I am,
the Lamb’s book of life is a great mystery, and unless this be granted, I see not but every
man’s regeneration and change shall be as dark and hidden, as the hidden and secret decrees
of God’s election; for the Spirit may immediately reveal both the one and the other. Is it
any derogation to the grace of Christ, to know what is freely given us? Doth it not rather
commend his grace, when a soul looks upon itself, beautified with his comeliness, and adorned
with his graces, and loathes itself in itself, and ascribes all the honour and praise to him?
Is it not more injury to the fountain and fulness of grace in Christ, not to see the streams
of it at all nor to consider them, than to behold the streams of grace that flow out of this
fountain, as coming out of it? I think Christians may be ready to idolize their graces, and
make them mediators, when they are known, but is this a good remedy of that evil, to abandon
all sight and knowledge of the things freely given us of God? Shall we not speak of the freeness
of grace, because men’s corruptions turn grace into carnal liberty and wantonness? If these
graces be in us, sure I am, it is no virtue to be ignorant of them, but rather a weakness and
darkness. It must then be the light and grace of God to know them, and from thence to conclude(163)
that assurance of faith, which is not a forced, ungrounded persuasion, and strong fancy, without
any discovered reason of it. Sure I am, the apostles counsel is, to make our election sure,
by making our calling sure. How shall any venture to look into those secrets of the Lamb’s
book of life, and read their name there? Undoubtedly they belong not to us,—they are a light
inaccessible, that will but confound and darken us more. Therefore, whoever would know their
election, according to the Scriptures, must read the transcript and copy of the book of life,
which is written in the hearts and souls of the elect.

The thoughts of God are written in his works upon the spirits of men. His election hath a seal
upon it,—“The Lord knoweth them that are his;” and who can break up this seal? 3. Christ writes
his everlasting thoughts of love and good-will to us in this epistle; and that we may not think
this doth extol the creature, and abase Christ, it is added, ver. 5,—“Not that we are sufficient
of ourselves,—but our sufficiency is of God.” The seeing of grace in ourselves doth not prejudge
the grace of God, unless we see it independent of the fountain, and behold not the true rise
of it, that we may have no matter to glory of. It is not a safe way of beholding the sun, to
look straight on it. It is too dazzling to our weak eyes,—you shall not well take it up so.
But the best way is to look on it in water; then we shall more steadfastly behold it. God’s
everlasting love, and the redemption of Jesus Christ, is too glorious an object to behold with
the eyes of flesh. Such objects certainly must astonish and strike the spirits of men with
their transcendent brightness. Therefore we must look on the beams of this sun, as they are
reflected in our hearts; and so behold the conformity of our souls, wrought by his Spirit,
unto his will; and then we shall know the thoughts of his soul to us. If men shall at the first
flight climb so high, as to be persuaded of God’s eternal love, and Christ’s purchase for them
in particular, they can do no more, but scorch their wings, and melt the wax of them, till
they fall down from that heaven of their ungrounded persuasion, into a pit of desperation.
The Scripture way is to go downward once, that ye may go up. First go down in yourselves, and
make your calling sure, and then you may rise up to God, and make your election sure. You must
come by this circle; there is no passing by a direct line, and straight through, unless by
the immediate revelation of the Spirit, which is not ordinary and constant, and so not to be
pretended unto.

I confess, that sometimes the Spirit may intimate to the soul God’s thoughts towards it, and
its own state and condition, by an immediate overpowering testimony, that puts to silence all
doubts and objections, that needs no other work or mark to evidence the sincerity and reality
of it. That light of the Spirit shall be seen in its own light, and needs not that any witness
of it. The Spirit of God sometimes may speak to a soul,—“Son, be of good comfort, thy sins
are forgiven thee.” This may break into the soul as a beam darted from heaven, without reference
to any work of the Spirit upon the heart, or word of Scripture, as a mids(164) or mean to apply
it. But this is more extraordinary. The ordinary testimony of the Spirit is certainly conjoined
with the testimony of our own consciences, Rom. viii. 16. And our consciences bear witness
of the work of the Spirit in us, which the Spirit discovers to be according to the word. The
Spirit makes known to us things that are freely given; but, by “comparing spiritual things
with spiritual,” 1 Cor. ii. 10, 13. The fruit and special work of the Holy Ghost in us is the
medium, and the Spirit’s light irradiates and shines upon it, and makes the heart to see them
clearly. For, though we be the children of light, yet our light hath so much darkness, as there
must be a supervenient and accessory light of the Spirit, to discover that light unto us. Now
what is all this to us? I fear that there be many ungrounded persuasions among us,—that many
build on a sandy foundation, even a strong opinion that it is well with them, without any examination
of their souls and conversations according to the word; and this certainly, when the tempest
blows, cannot stand. Some teach, that no man should question whether he believe or not, but
presently believe. I think none can believe too suddenly; it is always in season, nunquam sera
est fides nec pænitentia,—it is never late in respect of the promise; and it is never too early
in respect of a man’s case. But I cannot think any man can believe, till the Spirit have convinced
him of his unbelief; and therefore I would think the most part of men nearer faith in Jesus
Christ, if they knew they wanted faith. Nay, it is a part of faith, and believing God in his
word, and setting to our seal that God is true, for a man to take with his unbelief, and his
natural inability, yea, averseness to it. I would think that those who could not believe in
Christ, because they sought honour one of another, and went about to kill him, they had done
well to have taken with that challenge of Christ’s; and if men ought to take with their sin,
they ought to search and try their sin, that they may find it out, to take with it. I wonder,
since Antinomians make unbelief the only sin in the world, that they cannot endure the discovery
and confession of it. It seems they do not think it so heinous a sin. I confess, no man should
of purpose abstain from believing in Christ, till he find out whether he hath believed or not;
but whatever hath been, he is bound presently to act faith in Jesus Christ; to flee unto him
as a lost sinner, to a saving Mediator. Many of you deceive yourselves, and none can persuade
you that ye do deceive yourselves, such is the strength of that delusion and dream. It is the
great part of the heart’s deceitfulness, to flatter itself in its own eyes: to make a man conceive
well of himself and his heart. I beseech you, do not venture your soul’s salvation on such
groundless opinions; never to question the matter, is to leave it always uncertain. If you
would judge yourselves according to the Scriptures, many of you have the marks and characters
of those who are kept without the city, and are to have their part in the lake of fire. Is
there no condemnation for you, who have never condemned yourselves? Certainly the more you
are averse to condemn yourselves, this sticks the closer to you. You are not all in Christ;
“they are not all Israel which are of Israel.” Many (nay the most part) are but said Christians;
have no real union with Christ, or principle of life from him. The love you carry to yourselves,
makes you easily believe well of yourselves; know, that self-love can blind the eyes, and make
you apprehend that God loves you also. Nay, every one readily fancies that to be, which he
desires to be. I beseech you, consider if you have any ground for your hopes and confidences,
but such as those that will not bear out always. It would be no disadvantage to you, to have
your hope shaken, that instead of a vain presumption, you may have the anchor of hope, which
shall be fixed within the vail. I think one thing keeps men far from the kingdom of God,—because
they know not that they believe not in him. We had gained much ground on you by the word, if
we could persuade you that ye believe not, and have not believed from the womb. We might then
say to you, as Christ to his disciples, “Ye believe in God, believe also in me.” Ye have given
credit to God the judge and lawgiver, pronouncing a curse on you, and a sentence that ye have
hearts desperately wicked,—now, believe also in me, the Redeemer. Ye have believed God in the
law, in as far as ye have judged yourselves under sin and wrath; now, believe me in the gospel,
that brings a ransom from wrath, and a remedy for sin. It is this very unbelief, that is the
original of the world’s perishing,—unbelief of the law. Ye do not consider ye are under the
condemnation of it. Ye do not believe that ye have not yet fled to Jesus Christ to escape it;
and these two keep souls in a deep sleep, till judgment awake them.

But unto every one of you, I would give this direction: Let not examination of what you are,
hinder you from that which is your chief duty, and his chief commandment,—to believe in him.
I know many Christians are puzzled in the matter of their interest, and always wavering, because
they are more taken up with that which is but a matter of comfort and joy, than that which
is his greatest honour and glory. I say, to consider the precious promises; to believe the
excellency and virtue of Jesus Christ, and love him in your souls, and delight in him, is the
weightiest matter of the gospel. To go out of yourselves daily into his fulness, to endeavour
new discoveries of your own naughtiness and his grace, this is the new and great commandment
of the gospel. The obedience of it is the most essential part of a Christian walk. Now, again,
to know that ye do believe, and to discern your interest in Christ, this is but a matter of
comfort and of second concernment. Therefore, I say, whenever ye cannot be clear in this, ye
should be always exercised in the first. For it is that we are first called to; and if souls
were more exercised that way, in the consideration and belief of the very general truths and
promises of the gospel, I doubt not, but the light of these would clear up their particular
interest in due time. “These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.” It
is still safest to waive such a question of interest, when it is plunging,(165) because it
puts you off your special duty, and this is Satan’s intent in it. It were better if ye do question,
presently to believe and abide in him, till it were put out of question.

Sermon IV.

    Verse 1.—“Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”

Christ is made to us of God both righteousness and sanctification; and therefore, those who
are in Christ do not only escape condemnation, but they walk according to the Spirit, and not
according to the flesh. These two are the sum of the gospel. There is not a greater argument
to holy walking than this,—there is no condemnation for you, neither is there a greater evidence
of a soul having escaped condemnation, than walking according to the Spirit. We have spoken
something in general of the evidence that may be had of a man’s state, from his walking, and
the Spirit’s working in him; we would now speak of the conjunction of these two, and the influence
that that privilege hath on this duty, and something of the nature of this description, “who
walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”

In the creation of man, man was composed of soul and body. There was a right order, and subordination
of these, suitable to their nature. In his soul he reached angels above,—in his body he was
like the beasts below; and this part, his flesh, was a servant to the soul, that was acted
and affected according to the desires and motives of the soul. Now sin entering, as it hath
defaced all the beauty of the creation, as it hath misplaced man, and driven him out from that
due line of subordination to God his Maker, for he would have been equal to God, so it hath
perverted this beautiful order in men, and turned it just contrary,—hath made the servant to
ride on horses, and the prince to walk on foot. This is the just punishment of our first sin.
Adam’s soul was placed by creation under the sole command of its Creator, above all the creatures,
and his own senses; but in one sin, he proudly exalted himself above God, and lamentably subjected
himself below his senses, by hearkening to their persuasion. He saw it was good, and tasted
it, and it was sweet, and so he ate of it. What a strange way was this! To be like God, he
made himself unlike himself, liker the miserable beasts. Now, I say, this is the deserved punishment
of man. His soul, that was a free prince, is made a bond slave to the lusts of his flesh; flesh
hath gotten the throne, and keeps it, and lords it over the whole man. Now therefore it is,
that the whole man unregenerate, is called flesh, as if he had no immortal spirit, John iii.
6, “that which is born of the flesh is flesh;” and this chap. ver. 8, has a description of
natural men, “they that are in the flesh;” because flesh is the predominant part that hath
captivated a man’s reason and will. Nay, not only the grosser corruptions in a man, that have
their use and seat in his flesh and body, are under that name;—but take the whole nature of
man, that which is most excellent in him, his soul and spirit, his light and understanding,
the most refined principles of his conversation,—all these are now but flesh. Nay, not only
such natural gifts and illuminations but even the light of the gospel, and law of God, that
someway enters his soul, changeth the nature and name,—it is all but darkness and flesh in
him, because the flesh hath a dominion over all that. The clouds and vapours that arise from
the flesh, bemist(166) and obscure all these; the corruptions of the soul are most strengthened
in this sort, and most vented here. Sin is become connatural to the flesh, and so a man, by
the flesh, is ensnared and subjected to sin. Christ comprehends all our prerogatives and endowments
under this. John i. 13, “born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh;” and Matt. xvi. 17,
“flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee.” Even all the outwards of religion, and all
the common privileges of Christians may be called so. What hath Abraham found according to
the flesh? Rom. iv. 1, Phil. iii. 3;—which imports so much, that all those outward privileges,
many illuminations, and reformations, may so far consist with the corruption of man’s nature,
may unite so with that, as to have one name with it. It is not all able to conquer our flesh,
but our flesh rather subdues all that, and makes it serve itself, till a stronger than it come,
even the Spirit, to subdue it and cast it out of the house. Thus the image of God in man is
defaced; nay, the very image and nature of man, as man, spoiled. The first creation,—sin hath
marred and disordered it. Now, when this second creation, or regeneration comes, the creature
is made new, and formed again by the powerful Spirit of Jesus Christ. This change is made,
flesh is put out of the throne, as an usurper; the spirit and soul of a man is put in a throne
above it, but placed according to its due order, under a holy and spiritual law of God. And
thus Jesus Christ is the repairer of the breaches, and restorer of the ancient paths and old
wastes, to dwell in. Now the soul hath a new rule established to act according to, and new
principles to act from. He whose course of walking was after the corrupt dictates and commands
of his fleshly affections, and was of no higher strain than his own sparks of nature, and acquired
light would lead him to, now he hath a new rule established,—the Spirit speaking in the word
to him, and pointing out the way to him. And there is a new principle, that Spirit leading
him in all truth, and quickening him to walk in it. Now this is the soul’s perfect liberty,
to be from under the dominion of sin and lusts; and thus the Son makes free indeed by the free
Spirit. The Son was made a servant, that we might be made free, no more servants of sin in
the lusts thereof: and the Spirit of the Lord, where he comes, there is liberty; there the
spirit and reasonable soul of a man is elevated into its first native dignity; there the base
flesh is dethroned, and made to serve the spirit and soul in a man. Christ is indeed the greatest
friend of men, as they are men. Sin made us beasts, Christ makes us men. Unbelievers are unreasonable
men, αλογος, brutish, yea, in a manner, beasts;—this is an ordinary compellation in scripture.
Faith makes a man reasonable,—it gives the saving and sanctified use of reason. It is a shame
for any man to be a slave to his lusts and passions. It is the character of a beast upon him.
He that is led by senses and affections, is degenerated from human nature; and yet such are
all out of Christ. Sin reigns in them, and flesh reigns, and the principles of light and reason
within are captivated, incarcerated within a corner of their minds. We see the generally received
truths among men, that God is, that he is holy, and just, and good; that heaven and hell is,—these
are altogether ineffectual, and have no influence on men’s conversations, no more than if they
were not known, even because the truth is detained in unrighteousness. The corruptions of men’s
flesh are so rank, that they overgrow all this seed of truth, and choke it, as the thorns did
the seed, Matt. xiii. 7. Now, for you, who are called of Jesus Christ, O know what ye are called
unto! It is a liberty indeed, a privilege indeed. Ye are no more debtors to the flesh;—Christ
hath loosed that obligation of servitude to it. O let it be a shame unto you, who are Christians,
to walk so any more, to be entangled any more in that yoke of bondage! “He that ruleth his
spirit” is greater than the mighty, “than he that taketh a city.” Thus we are called to be
more than conquerors. Others, when they conquer the world, are slaves to their own lusts; but
let it be far from you to be so. Ye ought to conquer yourselves, which is more than to conquer
the world. It is not only unbeseeming a Christian, to be led with passions and lusts, but it
is below a man, if men were not now through sin below beasts. I beseech you, aspire unto, and
hold fast, the liberty Christ hath obtained for you. Be not fashioned any more according to
former lusts. Know, ye are men,—that ye have reasonable and immortal spirits in you. Why will
ye then walk as beasts? “Understand, ye brutish! and ye fools, when will ye be wise!” But I
say more; know, ye are Christians, and this is more than to be a man,—it is to be a divine
man, one partaker of the divine nature, and who is to walk accordingly. Christians are called
to a new manner of walking, and this walking is a fruit that comes out of the root of faith,
whereby they are implanted in Christ. You see these agree well together. Those who are in Christ,
“walk not after the flesh,” &c. Walking after the flesh, is the common walk of the world, who
are without God and without Christ, but Christ gives no latitude to such a walk. This is a
new nature to be in Christ, and therefore it must have new operations,—to walk after the Spirit.
While we look upon the conversations of the most part of men, they may be a commentary to expound
this part of the words, what it is to walk after the flesh. “The works of the flesh,” saith
the apostle, Gal. v. 19, “are manifest,”—and indeed they are manifest, because written in great
letters on the outside of many in the visible church, that who runs may read them. Do but read
that catalogue in Paul, and then come and see them in congregations. It is not so doubtful
and subtile a matter, to know that many are yet without the verge of Christ Jesus, without
the city of refuge. You may see their mark on their brow. Is not drunkenness, which is so frequent,
a palpable evidence of this,—your envyings, revilings, wrath, strife, seditions, fornications,
and such like? O do not deceive yourselves! There is no room in Jesus Christ for such impurities
and impieties. There is no toleration of sin within this city and kingdom. Sinners are indeed
pardoned, yea received and accepted, drunkards, unclean persons, &c., are not excluded from
entering here,—but they must renounce these lusts, if they would stay here. Christ will not
keep both,—he must either cast out the sin, or the sinner with it, if he will not part with
it. I beseech you, know what ye walk after, the flesh is your leader, and whither will it lead
you?—O! it is sad to think on it,—to perdition, ver. 13, “If ye live after the flesh, ye shall
die.” Ye think flesh your great friend, ye do all ye can to satisfy and please it, and, O how
pleasant is the satisfaction of your flesh to you! Ye think it liberty to follow it, and count
it bonds and cords to be restrained. But, oh! know and consider, that flesh will lead you by
the kingdom, that guide of your way, to which you committed yourself, will lead you by heaven,
Gal. v. 21. It is a blind guide, corruption and humour, and will have no eyes, no discerning
of that pit of eternal misery. They choose the way that is best pathed and trodden—that is
easiest, and that most walk into, and this certainly will lead you straight into this pit of
darkness. Be called off this way, from following your blind lusts, and rather suffer them to
be crucified. Be avenged on them for your two eyes that they have put out, and their treacherous
dealing to you, in leading you the high way to destruction. Come in to Jesus Christ, and ye
shall get a new guide of the way,—the Spirit that shall lead you into all truth, unto the blessed
and eternal life. Christ is the way ye must walk in, and the life that we must go into at the
end of our way, and the truth according to which we must walk. Now he hath given his Spirit,
the Comforter, to be our leader in this way, according to this rule and pattern unto that life.
In a word the Spirit shall lead you the straight way unto Christ. You shall begin in him, and
end in him. He shall lead you from grace to glory. The Spirit that came down from heaven, shall
lead you back to heaven. All your walk is within the compass of Christ,—out of him is no way
to heaven.

But we must not take this so grossly, as if no other thing were a walking after the flesh,
but the gross abominations among men, though even these will scrape a great number from being
in Christ Jesus, but it must be further enlarged, to the motions and affections of the unrenewed
spirit, and the common principles according to which men walk. And therefore the apostle, Col.
iii., Gal. v., nameth many things among the works of the flesh, and members of the old man,
which I doubt whether many will account so of,—some natural passions that we account nothing
of, because common, as anger, wrath, covetousness. What man is there amongst us, in whom some
of these mentioned stir not? Many of your hearts and eyes are given to covetousness, your souls
bow downward as your bodies do, and many times before your bodies. Is not the heart of men
upon this world, and cannot rise above to a treasure in heaven? And therefore your callings
otherwise lawful, and all your pains and endeavours in them, hath this seal of the flesh stamped
on them, and pass no otherwise with God. We see how rank the corruptions of men are, anger
domineering in them, and leading them often captive. And this is counted a light matter, but
it is not so in scripture. How often is it branded with folly by the wise man! And this folly
is even the natural fleshly corruption that men are born with, and in how many doth it rise
up to the elevation of malice and hatred of others? And then it carries the image of the devil,
rather than of human infirmity. And if we suppose a man not much given to any of these, yet
what a spirit of pride and self love is in every man, even those that carry the lowest sail,
and the meanest port among men,—those that are affable and courteous and those that seem most
condescending to inferiors and equals. Yet, alas! this evil is more deeply engraven on the
spirit. If a man could but watch over his heart, and observe all the secret reflections of
it, all the comparisons it makes, all the desires of applause and favour among men, all the
surmises and stirrings of spirit upon any affront, O how would they discover diabolic pride!
This sin is the more natural and inbred, for that it is our mother-sin that brought us down
from our excellency. This weed grows upon a glass window, and upon a dunghill. It lodges in
palaces and cottages. Nay, it will spring and grow out of a pretended humility, and low carriage.
In a word, the ambitious designs of men, the large appetite of earthly things, the overweening
conceit of ourselves, and love to ourselves, the stirring of our affections, without observing
a rule upon unlawful objects, or in an unlawful manner,—all these are common to men, and men
walk after them. Every man hath some predominant or idol, that takes him most up. Some are
finer and subtiler than others, some have their pleasures and gains without, others their own
gifts and parts within, but both are alike odious before God, and both gross flesh and corruption
before him.

There are two errors among men concerning this spiritual walking,—the one is the doctrine of
some in these days, the other is the practical error of many of us. Many pretending to some
near and high discoveries, as to Christ and the Spirit, have fallen upon the most refined and
spiritualized flesh instead of the Spirit indeed. They separate the Spirit from the word, and
reckon the word and law of God, which was a lamp to David’s feet, among the fleshly rudiments
of the world. But if they speak not “according to the law and to the testimony,” saith Isaiah,
“it is because there is no light in them.” Thus their new light is but an old darkness, that
could not endure even the darker light of the prophets. If they speak not according to the
word, it is because there is no spirit in them. Is it not the Spirit the Comforter, which Christ
promised to send to the apostles, and all that should believe in his name through their word?
For that Spirit was a Spirit of truth, that should lead into all truth. And lest men should
father their own fancies and imaginations on the Spirit of God, Christ adds, “he shall bring
all things to your remembrance”—those things that Christ hath spoken, and we have here written.
16,—the Spirit here, not casting out the word, but bringing it in plentifully, and sweetly
agreeing with it. The Spirit that Christ sent, did not put men above ordinances, but above
corruptions, and the body of death in them. It is a poor and easy victory to subdue grace and
ordinances—every slave of the devil doth that. I fear, as men and angels fell from their own
dignity, by aspiring higher, so those that will not be content with the estate of Christ and
his apostles, but soar up in a higher strain of spirit, and trample on that ministration as
fleshly and carnal,—I fear they fall from Jesus Christ, and come into greater condemnation.
It is true indeed, 2 Cor. iii. 6, “the letter killeth,” that is, the covenant of works preacheth
now nothing but condemnation to men, but the Spirit of the gospel giveth life, nay, even the
gospel separated from the Spirit of life in Jesus, is but a savour of death to souls. Shall
we therefore separate the Spirit from the gospel and word, because the word alone cannot quicken
us? David knew how to reconcile this,—“Quicken thou me according to thy word,” Psal. cxix.
10, 11. The word was his rule, and the Spirit applied his soul to the rule. The word holds
out the present pattern we should be conformed unto. Now if there be no more, a man may look
all his days on it, and yet not be changed, but the Spirit within, transforms and changes a
man’s soul to more and more conformity to that pattern, by beholding it. If a man shall shut
his eyes on the pattern, he cannot know what he is, and ought to be. If he look only on the
Spirit’s work within, and make that his rule, he takes an imperfect rule, and an incomplete
copy. And yet this is the highest attainment of these aspirers to new light. They have forsaken
the word as their rule, and instead of it, have another law within them, as much as is already
written on their hearts, which is in substance this, as they suppose,—I am bound to do no more
than I have already power to do; I am not to endeavour more holiness than I have already. These
men are indeed perfect here in their own apprehension, and do not know in part, and believe
in part, and obey in part, because they are advanced the length of their own law and rule,
their rule being of no perfection. Paul was not so, but forgetting what he had attained, he
followed on to what was before him, and was still reaching forward. Let not us, my brethren,
believe every spirit, and every doctrine that comes out under that name,—Christ hath forewarned
us. Pray for more of that Spirit, which may quicken the word to us, and quicken us to obey
the word. There must be a mutual enlivening. The word must be made the ministration of life
by the Spirit of Jesus, which can use it as a sword to divide the soul and spirit; and we must
be quickened to the obedience of the truth in the word. The word is the seed incorruptible;
but it cannot beget us, or be a principle of new life within us, except a living spirit come
along to our hearts. Know that the word is your pattern and rule; the Spirit your leader and
helper, whose virtue and power must conform you to that rule, 1 Pet. i. 22. Peter joins these
two,—the purification and cleansing the soul, which Christ attributes to the word, “Ye are
clean through the word which I have spoken,” John xv. 3. Peter attributes it to the Spirit
working according to the pattern of truth. It is true the Spirit of God needs no pattern to
look to; nay, but we must have it, and eye it, else we know not the Spirit of truth from a
lie and delusion. We cannot try the spirits but by this rule; and it is by making us steadfastly
look on this glorious pattern in the word, and the example of Christ Jesus’ life, that we are
conformed unto Christ, as by the Spirit of the Lord, 2 Cor. iii. 13. Certainly that must be
fleshly walking, which is rather conformed unto the imaginations of a man’s own heart, than
the blessed will of God revealed in his word. Can such walking please God, when a man will
not so much as hearken to what is God’s will and pleasure? As other heresies, so especially
this, is a work of the flesh.

Now there is another principle amongst many of us. We account it spiritual walking, to be separated
from the gross pollutions of the world, to have a carriage blameless before men. This is the
notion that the multitude fancy of it. Be not deceived,—you may pass the censure of all men,
and be unreprovable among them, and yet be but walkers after the flesh. It is not what you
are before the world can prove you spiritual men, though it may prove many of you carnal. Your
outside may demonstrate of many of you that ye walk after the flesh; and if ye will not believe
it, I ask you if ye think drunkenness a walking in the Spirit? Do ye think ye are following
the Spirit of God in uncleanness? Is it not that Holy Spirit that purgeth from all filthiness?
Look but what your walk is, ye that are not so much as conformed to the letter of the word
in any thing; who care not to read the scriptures and meditate on them. Is this walking after
the Spirit of truth? If drunkenness, railing, contention, wrath, envy, covetousness, and such
like, be the Spirit’s way, then I confess many of you walk after the Spirit; but if these be
the manifest works of the flesh, and manifestly your way and work, then why dream ye that ye
are Christians?

But I suppose, that ye could be charged with none of these outward things; that you had a form
of religion and godliness, yet I say, all that is visible before men cannot prove you to be
spiritual walkers. Remember it is a Spirit ye must walk after; now, what shall be the chief
agent here? Sure, not the body,—what fellowship can your body have with him that is a Spirit?
The body, indeed, may worship that eternal Spirit, being acted by the spirit; but I say, that
alone can never prove you to be Christians. We must then lay aside a number of professors,
who have no other ground of confidence but such things as may be seen of men; and if they would
enter their hearts, how many vain thoughts lodge there! How little of God is there! God is
not almost in all our thoughts; we give a morning and evening salutation, but there is no more
of God all the day throughout. And is this walking after the Spirit, which imports a constancy?
And what part can be spared most, but the spirit of a man? The body is distracted with other
necessary things, but we might always spare our souls to God. Now, thus should a man obey that
command,—“pray always.” It is impossible that he should do nothing else but pray in an express
formal way; but the soul’s walking with God, between times of prayer, should compensate that.
And thus prayer is continued, though not in itself, yet in meditation on God, which hath in
it the seed of all worship, and is virtually prayer and thanksgiving, and all duties.

Let us then consider, if our bodies be not more exercised in religion than our souls, yea,
if they be not the chief agents. How many impertinencies, and roveries, and wanderings, are
throughout the day? The most part of our conversation, if it be not profane, yet it is vain,
that is, unprofitable in the world. It neither advantageth us spiritually, nor glorifies God.
It is almost to no purpose; and this is enough to make it all flesh. And for our thoughts,
how do they go unlimited and unrestrained?—like a wild ass, traversing her ways, and gadding
about, fixed on nothing,—at least not on God; nay, fixed on any thing but God. If it be spiritual
service, should it not carry the seal of our spirit and affection on it? We are as so many
shadows walking, as pictures and statues of Christians, without the soul and life, which consists
in the temper and disposition of the spirit and soul towards God.

Sermon V.

    Verse 1.—“Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”

It is no wonder that we cannot speak any thing to purpose of this subject, and that you do
not bear with fruit, because it is indeed a mystery to our judgments, and a great stranger
to our practice. There is so little of the Spirit, both in teachers and those that come to
be taught, that we can but speak of it as an unknown thing, and cannot make you to conceive
it, in the living notion of it as it is. Only we may say in general,—it is certainly a divine
thing, and another thing than our common or religious walk is. It is little experienced, so
we can know the less of it; but this much we should know,—it is another thing than we have
attained. It is above us, and yet such a thing as we are called to aspire unto. How should
it stir up in our spirits a holy fire of ambition to be at such a thing, when we hear it is
a thing attainable: nay, when Christ calls us unto himself, that we may thus walk with him!
I would have Christians men of great and big projects and resolutions; of high and unlimited
desires, not satisfied with their attainments, but still aspiring unto more of God, more conformity
to his will, more walking after the Spirit, more separation from the course of the world. And
this is indeed to be of a divine spirit. The divine nature is here, as it were, in a state
of violence, out of its own element. Now, it is known by this, if it be still moving upwards,
taking no rest in this place, and these measures and degrees, but upon a continual motion towards
the proper centre of it,—God, his holiness, and Spirit.

We desire to speak a word of these three. First, The nature of the spiritual walking. Next,
Its connection and union with that blessed state of non-condemnation. And then of the order
of this, how it flows from a man’s being implanted in Christ Jesus;—which three are considerable(167)
in the words.

This spiritual walking is according to a spiritual rule, from spiritual principles, for spiritual
ends. These three being established aright, the walk is even the motion of a Christian within
the compass of these. It is according to the word, as the holy rule; it is from the faith and
love of Jesus Christ, as the predominant principles. Nay, from the Spirit of Jesus, living
in the heart by faith, and dwelling in it by love, as the first wheel of this motion, the primum
mobile. And as it begins in the spirit, so it ends there, in the glory of Jesus Christ, and
our heavenly Father. Consider this then—it is not a lawless walking and irregular walk, it
is according to the rule, and the rule is perfect, and it is a motion to perfection, not a
rest in what is now attained to. The course of this world is the way and rule of the children
of disobedience; Eph. ii. 2. There is a spirit indeed that works in them, and a rule it works
by. The spirit is that evil spirit, contrary to the Holy Spirit of God, and you may know what
spirit it is that works, by the way it leads men unto—a broad way, pathed and trodden in by
many travellers. It is the kings high street, the common way that most part walk into according
as their neighbours do, as the most do. But that king is the prince of this world, Satan, who
blinds the eyes of many, that they may not see that pit of misery before them, which their
way leads them to. A Christian must have a kind of singularity, not in opinion but in practice
rather, to be more holy, and walk more abstracted from the dregs of the worlds pollution. This
were a divine singularity. Indeed men may suspect themselves, that separate from the godly
in opinion. They have reason to be more jealous of themselves when they offend against the
generation of the just. But if this were the intention and design of men, or be very unlike
the multitude of men, nay, to be very unlike the multitude of professors, in the affection
and practice of holiness humility, and spiritual walking, I think this were an allowed way,
though a singular way. Men may aspire to as great a difference as may be, from the conversations
and practice of others, if there be a tending to more conformity to the word, the rule of all
practice. The law is spiritual and “holy,” saith Paul “but I am carnal.” Thus, therefore, were
spiritual walking,—to see its excellent spiritual rule before our eyes that we who are carnal
may be transformed and changed into more likeness to that holy and spiritual law. If a man
had not an imperfect rule of his own fancy and imagination before his eyes, he could not be
satisfied with his attainments, but, with Paul, would forget them,—in a manner, not know them,
but reach forward still to what is before. Because so much length would be before us, as would
swallow up all our progress,—this would keep the motion on foot and make it constant. A man
should never say, “Master, let us make tabernacles, it is good to be here.” No, indeed, the
dwelling place and resting would be seen to be above. As long as a man had so much of his journey
to accomplish, he would not sit down in his advancement, he would not compare with others,
and exalt himself above others. Why? Because there is still a far greater distance between
him and his rule, than between the slowest walker and him. This made Paul more sensible of
a body of death, (Rom. vii.) than readily lower Christians are. Reflections on our attainments
and comparisons with others, which are so often the work of our spirit, are a retrograde motion,
it makes no way but spends the time,—is a returning as we go, whereas we ought to go straight
forward. I beseech you, Christians, consider what you are doing, if you would prove yourselves
so indeed. I know not how you can evidence it better than by honouring and esteeming his word
and commandments,—exceeding large and precious, no end of their perfection. The word is much
undervalued in the opinions of many, but it is as little cared for in the practice of most.
There is certainly little of God there where this is not magnified and honoured. There must
be darkness in that way, where this candle, which was a lamp to David’s feet, shines not. Some
promise to us liberty, but they themselves are the servants of corruption, it is no liberty
to be above all law and rule. It was innocent Adam’s liberty to be conformed to a holy and
just command, nay, this was his beauty. This Spirit indeed gives liberty where he is, but this
liberty is from our sins and corruptions, not to them. It looses the chains of a man’s own
corrupt lusts off him, to walk at freedom in the way of his commandments. The Spirit enlargeth
the prisoner’s heart, and then he runs, but not at random, but the way of his commands, Psalm
cxix. 32. It was our bondage to be as wild asses, traversing our ways,—to be gadding abroad,
to change our way. Now, here is the Spirit’s liberty to bring us into the way and that way
is one. Let us then learn this one principle,—the word must be the rule of your walking both
common and religious. Alas! it is not spiritual walking to confine religion to some solemn
duties. Remember, it is a walk, a continued thing, without interruption, therefore your whole
conversation ought to be as so many steps progressive to hearer. Your motion should not be
to begin only when you come to pray, or read, or hear, as many men do. They are in a quite
different way and element when they step out of their civil callings into religious ordinances.
But Christians, your motion should be continued in your eating and drinking, and sleeping,
and acting in your callings, that when you come to pray or read, you may be but stepping forward
in the way, out of one darker, obscurer path, into a more beaten way. Remember, this word can
make us perfect to salvation. It is a principle in the hearts of folks, which is vented now
by many, that the word doth not reach their particular carriages and conversations in civil
matters. These are apprehended to be without the sphere and compass of the word, while it is
commonly cast up to ministers—meddle with the word and spiritual things and not with our matters.(168)
Truly I think, if we separate these from the word, we may quickly separate all religion from
such actions, and if such actings and businesses be without the court of the word, they are
also without the court of conscience, conscience, religion, and the word being commensurable.
Therefore I beseech every one of you, take the word for the ruling of your callings and conversations
among men. Extend it to all your actions, that in all these you may act as Christians as well
as men. It is certainly the licentiousness of the spirits of men, that cannot endure the application
of the word unto their particular actions and conversation.

Now this spiritual walk proceeds from spiritual principles. It is certain, the Spirit of Jesus
Christ is he “in whom we live, and move, and have our being” spiritually. Without him we can
do nothing. And therefore Christians ought to walk with such a subordination to, and dependence
on him, as if they were mere instruments, and patients under his hand. Though I think in regard
of endeavoured activity they should bestir themselves and give all diligence, as if they acted
independently of the Spirit, yet in regard of denial of himself, and dependence on the Spirit,
each one ought to act as if he did not act at all but the Spirit only acted in him. This is
the divinity of Paul,—“I laboured more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but grace in me.
I live, yet not I, but Christ in me.” O how difficult a thing is it to reconcile these two
in the practice of Christians which yet cannot really be, except they be together! It is certainly
one of the great mysteries of Christianity, to draw our strength and activity from another,
to look upon ourselves and our actings, as these that can do nothing—as empty vines, and that
notwithstanding of all infused and acquired principles. Whatever we ought to do in judging
and discerning of our condition, yet sure I am, Christians, in the exercise and practice of
godliness, should look upon themselves void of any principle in themselves either to do or
think. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves. The proficient and growing Christian should
look no more on his own inclinations and habits than if he had none. He should consider himself
an ungodly man, that no fruit can grow upon, one that cannot pray, as he is in himself. But,
alas we come to duties in the confidence of qualifications for duties, act more confidently
in them because accustomed to them, and so make grace and religion a kind of art and discipline,
that use and experience make expert unto. Learn now this one thing, which would be instead
of many rules and doctrine to us,—to shut out of your eyes the consideration of what you are
by gifts, or grace, or experience. Do not consider that, but rather fix your eyes on the grace
of Jesus Christ, and upon the power and virtue of the Holy Spirit, which is given by promise,
that when the way is all the easier to you, both by delight and custom, yet you may find it
to your natural principles as insuperable as at the beginning, and may still cry out, “Draw
me, and I will run after thee, lead me, and I will walk with thee.” Do not measure the call
into duties by the strength thou findest in thyself, but look unto him who strengtheneth us
with all might. Now, the Spirit worketh in us by subordinate spiritual principles, as believing
in Christ and loving of him, as our Lord and Saviour, and these two acts drive on a soul sweetly
in the way of obedience. Fear, where not mixed in its actings with faith and love, is a spirit
of bondage, but the Christian ought to walk according to the spirit of adoption which cries
“Abba, Father.” Yet how many Christians are rather in a servile and slavish manner driven on
by terrors and chastisements to their duty than by love! There is a piece of liberty in Christian
walking, when there is not a restraint upon the spirit, by this slavish fear. This, I say,
is not beseeming those that are in Christ Jesus. You ought to have the Spirit of your Father
for your leader and guide. O how sweet, and how certain and necessary also, would this walking
be! The love of Christ would be an inward principle of motion, and would make our spiritual
actings as easy and pleasant as natural motions are. Fear is but a violent principle, that
is like the impulse of a stone thrown upward, as long as that external impression remains,
it moves, but still slower and slower, and at length evanisheth. But if you believed in him,
and your hearts were engaged to love him, O how would it be a pleasant and native thing to
walk in his way, as a stone goeth downward! Consider your principles, that act you to matters
and duties of religion. Many men there be, in whom there appears no difference of their work
to beholders; but O how wide a difference doth God discern in them! Engines and artifice may
make dead and lifeless things move and walk as orderly as things that have life. But the principle
of this motion makes a huge difference:—the one is moved from without, the other from itself.
The most part of us act as irrational and brute beasts in religion: nay, we walk as inanimate
and senseless creatures. It is some one or other consideration without us moves us,—custom,
censure, education, and such like. Ah! these are the principles of our religion. How many would
have no religion, no form of it, if they were not among such company! And therefore we see
many change it according to companies, as the fish doth its skin, according to the colour of
that which is nearest it. How many would do many things they dare not for punishment and censure,
and for that same dare not leave other things undone! In a word, the most part of us are such
as would walk in no path of godliness, if it were not the custom of the time and fear of men
that constrained us. But, my brethren, let it not be so among you, you who are in Christ Jesus.
Let this be predominant in your hearts to constrain you not to live to yourselves, but unto
God, even this,—that you believe Christ hath died for sinners, that they might live from sin.
And from this let your hearts be inflamed with his love, that it may carry you on in a sweet
and blessed necessity to walk in all well-pleasing. Let the consideration of his love lay on
a constraint, but a constraint of willingness, to live to him who hath thus loved you. But
as the principle is spiritual, so must the end be; and I think these two complete the mystery
of the practice of Christianity,—to act from another principle unto another end; even as these
two make up the mystery of iniquity in our hearts,—to act from ourselves unto ourselves. Every
man naturally makes a god of himself, is his own Alpha and Omega, the beginning of his actions,
and the end of them, which is proper to God. As the fall hath cut off the subordination of
the soul to God in its actions, that it cannot now derive all from that blessed Fountain of
all-being and well-being, so is this channel of reference of all our actions to God stopped,
that they do not tend unto him, as they are not derived from him; and thus they return unto
a man’s self again. There is one point of self, and making it our aim and design, which possibly
many do not take heed unto. It is ordinary for us to act and walk in Christian duties, for
our salvation,—for obtaining of life eternal, as our chief and only end, which is but an inferior
end; because we ought not to walk mainly for life, but to life. We should not walk after the
command only for heaven, but in the way of it unto heaven. Our spiritual walking can never
purchase us a right unto the least of his mercies. When we have done all, this should be our
soul’s language,—We are unprofitable servants, our righteousness extends not to thee. What
gain is it to the Almighty that thou art righteous? Yet for the most part, we make our walking
as a hire for the reward. The covenant of works,—doing for life, is some way naturally imprinted
in our hearts, and we cannot do, but we would live in doing; we cannot walk unto all well-pleasing,
but we would also walk unto pacifying of God. Self-righteousness is men’s great idol, which,
when all other baser and grosser idols are down, they do still seek to establish. But, Christians,
observe this evil in yourselves and suffer this mystery of godliness to be wrought in you,—the
abasing of yourselves, the denial of yourselves. I would have you, in respect of diligence
and earnestness, doing, walking, and running, as if ye were to be saved by it only. But again,
you must deny all that, and no more consider it, or lean upon it, than if ye ought to do nothing,
or did nothing. But your ends should be more divine and high, as your nature is,—to glorify
God in your mortal bodies, since ye are his, and bought with a price. O how ought ye not to
be your own! The great purpose of your obedience should be, a declaration of your sense of
his love, and of your obligation to him. Ye ought to walk in his way, because ye are escaped
condemnation, and saved by him, and not that ye may be saved only. It is the glory of our heavenly
Father, and the honour of the Redeemer, for Christians to walk, even as he walked, and follow
his footsteps. It commends the grace of Jesus Christ exceedingly. Therefore this cannot but
be the choice and delight of a believing soul,—to walk unto all well-pleasing, to have the
glory of him as their great design to aim at: who for our salvation laid aside his glory, and
embraced shame and reproach. We use to walk in obedience to God, that we may pacify God for
our disobedience. But let a Christian abhor such a thought. Christ’s blood must pacify, but
the walking of his child pleaseth him in his well-beloved Son. When he is once pacified for
sin, when he once accepts your persons, your performances are his delight. Now this should
be the great scope of a soul, that all its powers should be fixed on,—to please him, and live
to him.

Now these three being established, we must conceive that the chief agent and party in this
walking must be spiritual; therefore men’s bodies are not capable of this walk after the Spirit
principally. Outward ordinances are but the shell wherein the kernel must be enclosed. All
our walking that is visible to men, is but like a painted or engraven image and statue, that
hath no breath nor life in it, unless the Spirit actuate and quicken the same. I say not only
the Spirit of God, but the spirit and soul in man; for the Spirit’s immediate and divine operations
are upon such a suitable subject as the immortal soul. Verily, there is a spirit in man, and
the inspiration of the Almighty gives him understanding. We must not abolish the outward form,
because it hath some divinity in it, even the stamp of God’s authority; and therefore, those
who are swelled above ordinances, I fear they be monstrous Christians. A man is composed of
a spirit and a body, acted and quickened by that Spirit. Without either of these he is not
a complete man. So I say, he is not a Christian that doth not worship God in the spirit and
in truth both; and it is not religion that excludes either the inward soul-communion with God,
or the outward ordinance and appointment of God. But, alas! this may be our complaint,—we come
and worship God, and draw nigh with our bodies, but our hearts are far removed. Here is the
death of many’s worship,—the soul is separated from the body of it. These are but pictures
and images of Christians. We have mouths and faces of saints: but O how little of divine affection
or of soul-desires, breathes in us! We are deniers of the power of godliness, by resting in
a form, and this is the great sin of this generation. The essentials, the vital spirits of
Christianity are exhausted, and some dry bones, like an anatomy of a Christian, remain behind.
I beseech you, gather your spirits to this spiritual walking: they only can follow the Spirit.
Your bodies are earthly and lumpish, and the way is all upward to the holy hill. Look inwardly
and measure yourselves so. Outward appearance is no just measure. Retire within your souls,
and engage them in this exercise, and enter them to this motion, and your spirits will sweetly
and surely act your bodies and externals, in all matters of godliness.

Sermon VI.

    Verse 1.—“Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”

It is one of the greatest mysteries in a Christian’s practice, to join these two together,
which the gospel hath conjoined,—justification and sanctification, and to place them in their
due order. There is much miscarrying in both these, if they are either separated or misplaced.
But the truth is, they cannot really be, except they be jointly. Yet, often it falls out, that
in men’s apprehensions and endeavours, they are disjoined. This, then, were the argument of
a living, and believing Christian,—to join the study of holiness, with the exercise of faith
in Christ, for remission of sin and righteousness; and not only to join it, but also to derive
it from that principle. There is both an union between these and an order established in Scripture.
The most part of those that profess the gospel are of two sorts; they do either divide holiness
from imputed righteousness, or Christ’s righteousness from holiness. I do not say, that any
man truly seeks to be covered with the righteousness of Jesus Christ, and to have his sins
freely pardoned, but he will also study to walk before God in all well-pleasing. But the truth
is, many do pretend and profess to seek salvation and forgiveness in Christ’s blood, and have
the mercy of God, and merits of Christ always in their mouth, who yet declare by their conversation
that they do not so much as desire or propose to seek after holiness. I do not speak of those
who are Antinomians in profession, but of a great multitude in the visible church, who are
really more Antinomians, to wit, in practice, than most part of our professed Antinomians.
You hear all of free grace, and free redemption in Jesus Christ, of tender and enduring mercies
in God, and this you take for the whole gospel; and presently, upon the notion of mercy and
grace, you conclude unto yourselves, not only immunity and freedom from all the threatenings
of the word, and from hell, but likewise ye proclaim secretly in your own hearts, a liberty
to sin so much the more securely. The door of mercy cast open in the gospel, and the free access
to Christ manifested therein, through the corruption that is within us, proves the very occasion
of many’s giving indulgence to their lusts—of delaying reformation, and turning to God. You
all profess, that you seek to be justified and saved by Jesus Christ; yea, you persuade yourselves
to have escaped condemnation by Christ. Now then, conjoin that profession and persuasion with
your walk, and O how contrary you may find them to one another! “Your faith is vain,” for “ye
are yet in your sins,” 1 Cor. xv. 17. The grace of God appearing to some men, effectually teacheth
them to deny ungodliness, and worldly lusts, and to live righteously, soberly, and godly, Tit.
ii. 11, 12. But if we may conjecture your teaching by your walking, it seems the notion of
grace and the gospel that is formed in your minds, hath taught you another doctrine,—to avow
ungodliness and follow worldly lusts. Is there so much as a shadow of this spiritual walking
in many? I confess, it is natural for every man to seek his own righteousness, and it is the
arm of God that must bow men to submit to Christ’s imputed righteousness. Yet, the most part
of men seem to be so far from seeking any righteousness, that they are rather seeking the fulfilling
of their own carnal lusts, working wickedness with greediness, not caring how little they have
to put confidence into. And yet, certain it is, that how much soever a man attains to of a
form of religion or civil honesty, he is ready to put his trust in it, and to lean the weight
of his soul upon it. But seeing this is natural to you all, to seek heaven by doing and working,
I wonder that ye do no more. How do you satisfy your consciences in the expectation of heaven,
who take so little pains in religion, and are so loose and profane in your conversation? I
wonder, seeing ye have it naturally engraven in your hearts to establish your own righteousness,
that ye labour not to have more of it to fill your eye withal.

But again, on the other hand, there are some men, who have a form of religion, and labour to
be of a blameless conversation among men, that possibly persuade themselves they are seeking
holiness, and walking spiritually. But, alas! you may find it but a painted and seeming religion,
that is an abomination in the sight of God; because it is to them, all the ground of their
acceptation before God. If ever this question was moved in some of you, “What shall I do to
be saved?” you have condescended on such a walk, such a profession for the answer of it. It
is natural to all, even those who have least appearance of godliness, to seek heaven by doing
God’s will. Those that have no more to speak of than their baptism, or receiving the Lord’s
Supper, or attending well the solemn assemblies, will ground their hope of salvation on these
things. How much more will the civil and honest men, commonly so called, who pray and read,
and profess godliness,—how much more, I say, will they establish that which they attain to,
as the ground of their confidence before God! Now, this is a general unknown ill that destroys
the world, and yet few are convinced of it, how hard it is to be driven out of ourselves, and
to seek life in another. O know, that it is in a manner the crucifying of a man’s self thus
to deny himself,—to have a sort of righteousness, and not to trust in it. Who is he that cannot
endure to look upon himself for moral vileness? Alas, men flatter themselves in their own eyes,
and look with a more favourable eye on their own actions, than they ought! Who is he that abhors
himself even for abominable works? But who shall be found to abhor himself for his most religious
and best actions? Who casts these out of his sight as unclean and menstruous things? Therefore,
I say, though thy righteousness were equal to, or exceeded any Pharisee’s righteousness, thou
canst not enter into heaven. The poor publican, that was a vile and profane sinner, yet had
a righteousness exceeding the Pharisee’s. Though he had none of his own, yet he had a righteousness
without blemish, of Christ’s purchasing, having by faith fled to the mercy of God, in and through
a Mediator. It is not more doing, more praying, more exact walking, that can make you more
righteous in God’s account, in order to absolution from law-condemnation, than the profanest
and most wretched sinner. But the baser and viler thou be in thine own eyes, the more thou
hidest thy best doings from thine eyes, and lookest on thy uncleanness, and betakest thyself
to Christ, his unspotted and perfect righteousness, the more honourable and precious thou art
in his eyes. Therefore, God is said to dwell in the heart of the humble and contrite one, not
for the worth of his humility and repentance; no, no, but for the pleasure he hath in the Well-beloved’s
righteousness. That is the beautiful garment, only in the eye of a humbled soul, that seeth
nothing in itself desirable.

Therefore, I wish that this conjunction which is made in the gospel, were also engraven in
your hearts, and on your practices, that is, that you would seek after holiness, without which
no man shall see God. Seek to perfect it in the fear of God, but not as though ye were to be
thereby justified. Seek it with that diligence and earnest study, as if ye were to be saved
by it, and yet seek it, so as to be denied to your diligence, or as if ye sought it not at
all. How sweet a conjunction were this in the Christian’s practice, to walk and run so after
the prize, as if his walking did obtain it, and yet to look upon his walking, as if it were
not at all. Your diligence and seriousness in godliness should be upon the growing hand, as
if doing did save you; yet you ought to deny all that, and look to the righteousness of another,
as if nothing were done at all by you. How doth Paul, (Phil. iii. 8,) unite these in his practice,
“I count all loss and dung to be found in Christ, not having mine own righteousness, and yet
I press forward, and follow after perfection, as having attained nothing yet.” One of these
two is the original of many stumblings and wanderings in our Christian way. Either there is
not a necessity and constraint laid upon the souls of many to walk in all well-pleasing, and
to perfect holiness in the fear of God,—we look on it as a thing indifferent, that is to be
determined according to the measure of our receivings from God, or we look on it as a thing
not urging all, but belonging to ministers, or more eminent professors; and hence there ariseth
much carnal liberty, in walking without the line of Christian liberty, because there is an
indifference in the spirit that gives that latitude in walking; or else there is not that following
of holiness in such a way, as can consist with the establishing of Christ’s righteousness,—no
denial of ourselves in our actions. We act as if we were sufficient of ourselves, and walk
as if we were thereby justified, and commend ourselves to God in our own consciences, whenever
we can have the testimony of our consciences for well-doing. And by this means the Lord is
provoked. Because we do not honour the Son, the Father counts himself despised, and the Spirit
is grieved and tempted to depart, and leave us to our own imaginations, till our idol which
we established fall down, and our understanding return to us.

As it would be of great moment to the peace of Christians, and increase of holiness, to have
that union of justification and sanctification stamped on their hearts, so especially to have
the due and evangelic method and order of these impressed on their consciences, would conduce
exceedingly both to their quickening and comforting. As there is nothing, that either so deadens
or darkens, and saddens the spirits of the godly, as darkness in this particular, the ignorance
and mistake of the method and order of that well-ordered covenant must certainly be very prejudicial
to the life and consolation tendered by the gospel. This spiritual walking flows from the believer’s
state of non condemnation in Christ. He is once in Jesus Christ, and then he walks after the
Spirit of Christ. You may make engines to cause a dead statue walk, but it cannot walk of itself
till it have a principle of life in it. Walking is one of the operations of life, that flows
from some inward principle, and so this spiritual walk and motion of a Christian in his course,
is the proper operation of the new nature that he is a partaker of in Christ Jesus. As, then,
you know it is impossible that there can be true and unfeigned walking, where there is no life,
no principle within, to put the creature to motion, though a man may by art and some external
impulse so act a piece of timber or stone, as it may resemble to you a walking like to living
creatures, so it is not possible that any of the sons of Adam, who are by nature dead in sins,
can walk spiritually, before they be united to Jesus Christ, by believing in him for righteousness
and salvation. There may be such a walking of carnal unregenerate men, as may deceive all the
senses and judgments of beholders. Men may be acting from base external principles in matters
of religion, so that a beholder shall perceive no difference between them and others in whom
Christ lives and walks; but before God it is nothing else but an artificial walk, a painted
and dead business, because the Spirit that raised up Christ is not stirring in them. They are
not living members of that Head that quickens all, have not been driven out of their own righteousness
to Christ, the city of refuge. Their principles are no higher than walking to obtain salvation,
and acceptation of God in a legal way, walking to pacify him, walking to please men and their
own consciences, walking for gain or credit, or advantage in the way, walking according to
custom or education in the way. These are not living principles. But when once a soul hath
embraced Christ Jesus within it, he becomes in a manner a soul to actuate and quicken that
soul. He animates it, and moves it in God’s ways, according to the covenant of grace,—“I will
put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes.” There is first quickening,
and then walking. You who were dead in sins, hath he quickened together with Christ, Eph. ii.
1, 5; and then it follows in due order,—“I will cause you to walk in my statutes,” Ezek. xxxvi.
27. Christ comes into the heart to dwell, and then he walks in it, 2 Cor. vi. 16. And what
is that,—Christ to walk in believers? It is nothing else but Christ by his Spirit making them
to walk in his way. There is so little in us to principle a spiritual action, even when renewed
and quickened, that we should look on ourselves not so much as workers with him, but as being
acted by him. We should look on soul and body as pieces of organized clay that cannot move,
but as they are moved by him as the soul and life of them; so that, according to the Scripture
dialect, a Christian is nothing else, but Christ living and walking in such a person. This
is it which Christ, when he is to go out of the world, instructs his disciples into, John xv.
1. He is the vine, and we the branches. The branch must be first united to the tree, and implanted
into the tree, ere it bring forth fruit. Without the tree it withers. So must a soul be first
ingraft in Jesus Christ, implanted in him by faith in his death and sufferings, before it can
grow up into the similitude of his resurrection, or “walk in newness of life,” as Paul speaks,
Rom. vi. 4, 5. “Without me ye can do nothing.” Ye must first be one with him, by believing
in him, and receiving him as a complete Saviour, and then the sap and virtue of the tree flows
into the dead branch, and it shoots forth, and blossoms and bears.

Now, if this doctrine of Christ and his apostles were duly pondered and believed, O what a
change would it make on the lives and spirits of Christians! Since this is the order established
in the gospel, and an order suitable both to his grace and our necessity, (as all that is in
it speaketh forth an excellent contriver)—when we go about to establish our souls in another
method, how is it possible that we should not weary and vex our souls in vain? How can we choose
but torment ourselves and intricate ourselves still more? Our method and way is just contrary.
We perplex our souls how to find the fruits of the Spirit of Christ, how to walk after the
Spirit, without first closing entirely with Christ himself. We trouble ourselves to find the
operations of a spiritual life, before we lay hold on Christ, who is the life of our souls.
It is made an argument by many, to keep them from believing in Christ, because they do not
find that spiritual life stirring in them. How cross is this to the declared mind of Christ
in the gospel! It cannot choose but both darken the spirit more, and dry up the influences
of the Spirit of God, because it keeps thee from the fountain of all consolation. You may disquiet
your souls by this means, but you shall never make advantage this way. Without him “ye can
do nothing:” and yet ye will not come to him, because ye have done nothing. It is strange how
little reason is in it, if your eyes were opened. You refuse or delay to abide in the vine
till you bring forth fruit, and fruit ye cannot bring forth till you be in the vine. You would
walk, and you will not have the life from which you must walk. Paul lived indeed, but what
a life! “The life that I live is by the faith of the Son of God.” Faith in Christ transported
him out of himself to Christ, or received Christ into the soul, and Christ in the soul was
the life of his soul, Gal. ii. 20. Your walking is as if a dead man would essay to go. Will
one expect figs of thorns, or grapes of thistles? I beseech you, know what wrong ye do to yourselves,
and to Christ. Ye wrong yourselves, because ye stand in the way of your own mercy, ye stand
aback from your life,—him that is “the way, the truth, and the life.” You would walk in the
way, but no man can walk in this way, but by this way. Christ must quicken you to walk in himself.
Ye must get life in him, and not bring it. You are in a vain expectation of fruits from yourselves,—they
will never see the sun; and when you have wearied yourselves in such a vain pursuit, you must
at length come and begin here. Ye wrong Christ’s grace and mercy. This order is suited of purpose
for our desperate condition, and yet ye presume to reject it, and seek another. You prescribe
to your skilful and tender Physician, that which would undo you. I beseech you, know the original
of your miseries, doubts, barrenness, and darkness. Here it is,—you are still puzzling yourselves
about grace and duties, how to fill your eyes with these, and ye neglect Christ as your righteousness,
as one dead and risen again, and now sitting at God’s right hand for us. You must first close
with him, as ungodly men. Though you were godly, you must shut your eyes on any such thing,
and lay living Jesus upon your dead and benumbed hearts. Answer all your challenges with his
absolution, and stand before God, in his clothing. Put his garment immediately on your nakedness
and vileness, and we may persuade you it shall yield you abundant consolation and life. Because
he lives, ye shall live, and walk. If you were more frequent and serious in the consideration
of his excellent majesty, of his beautiful and lovely qualifications, as the Mediator for sinners,
and of the precious promises which are all “yea and amen,” confirmed in him, and less in the
vain and unprofitable debates of self-interest, and such like, I am persuaded ye would be more
fruitful Christians. This is not as the business of a holiday, to be done at your first coming
to Christ, and no more. No, it must run alongst, all your life. The aged experienced Christian
must come along as an ungodly sinner, to a blessed and living Saviour, and have no other ground
of glory or confidence before God, but Christ Jesus crucified.

Sermon VII.

    Verse 2.—“For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath
    made me free from the law of sin and death.”

You know there are two principal things in the preceding verse,—the privilege of a Christian,
and the property or character of a Christian. He is one that never enters into condemnation;
He that believeth shall not perish, John iii. 15. And then he is one that walks not after the
flesh, though he be in the flesh, but in a more elevate way above men, after the guiding and
leading of the Holy Spirit of God. Now it may be objected in many consciences,—how can these
things be? Have not all sinned, and come short of the glory of God, and so the whole world
is become guilty before God? Is not every man lying under a sentence of death? “Cursed is he
that abides not in all things,” &c. How then can he escape condemnation? Again, you speak of
walking after the Spirit, as proper to the Christian; but whose walk is not carnal? Who is
he that doth not often step aside out of the way, and follow the conduct and counsel of flesh
and blood? Is not sin dwelling here in our mortal bodies? Who can say, my heart or way is clean?
Therefore both that privilege and this property of a Christian, seem to be but big words, no
real thing. And indeed I confess the multitude of men hath no other opinion of them but as
fancied imaginary things; few believe the report of the gospel concerning the salvation of
elect ones, and few understand what this spiritual walking is. Many conceive it is not a thing
that belongs to men, who are led about with passions and affections, but rather to angels or
spirits perfected.

However, we have in these words an answer to satisfy both objections. He grants something implicitly,
and it is this: It is true indeed, Christians are under a twofold law, captives and bondmen
to these,—a law of sin in their members, bringing them in subjection to the lusts of the flesh.
Sin hath a powerful dominion and tyranny over every man by nature. It hath a sort of light
and power over him. And likewise, every one was under a law of death, the law of God cursing
him, and sentencing him to condemnation because of sin. These two were joint conquerors of
all mankind. But, saith he, there is a delivery from this bondage. Freedom is obtained to believers
by Jesus Christ, and so “there is no condemnation to them which are in Christ,” and so they
walk not after the leading and direction of that law of sin within them, but after the guiding
of our blessed Tutor,—the Spirit of God. If you ask how this comes to pass,—by what authority,
or law, or power, is this releasement and freedom obtained? Here it is,—“by the law of the
Spirit of life, which is in Christ.” Christ is not an invader, or unjust conqueror, he hath
fair law for what he doth, even against those laws which detain unbelievers in bondage. There
is a higher and later law on his side, and he hath power and strength to accomplish his design.
He opposes law unto law, and life unto death, and spirit unto flesh; a law of spirit unto a
law of sin and flesh; a law of life unto a law of death;—in a word, the gospel, or covenant
of grace, unto the law or covenant of works. The powerful and living Spirit of grace that wrought
mightily in him, is set fore-against the power of sin and Satan in us, and against us. The
one gives him right and title to conquer, the other accomplisheth him for the work; and by
these two are believers in Jesus Christ made freemen, who were bondmen. That, then, which we
would speak from these words, is the common lot of all men by nature, viz. to be under the
power of sin, and sentence of death; the special exemption of believers in Christ, and immunity
from this, or delivery from it; and then the true ground and cause of this delivery from that
bondage;—which three are contained in the words, it is a purpose indeed of a high nature, and
of high concernment to us all. Our life and death is wrapt up in this. You may hear many things
more gladly, but if you knew it, none so profitable. Therefore let us gather our spirits to
the consideration of these particulars.

As to the first, all men are under the bondage of a twofold law,—the law of sin within them,
and the law of death without them. Man was created righteous; but, saith the wise man, he “sought
out many inventions.” A sad invention indeed! He found out misery and slavery to himself, who
was made free and happy. His freedom and happiness was to be in subjection to his Maker, under
the just and holy commands of his Lord, who had given him breath and being. It was no captivity
or restraint to be compassed about with the hedges of the Lord’s holy law, no more than it
is a restraint on a man’s liberty to have his way hedged in, where he may safely walk, that
he may keep himself within it, from pits and snares on every hand. But, alas!—if we may say
alas, when we have such a redemption in Jesus Christ,—Adam was not content with that happiness,
but seeking after more liberty, he sold himself into the hands of strange lords,—first sin,
and then death. “Other lords besides thee, O Lord, have had dominion over us,” Isa. xxvi. 13.
This is too true in this sense; Adam seeking to be as the Lord himself, lost his own lordship
and dominion over all the works of God’s hands, and became a servant to the basest and most
abominable of all, even that which is most hateful to the Lord,—to sin and death. And this
is the condition we are now born into. Consider it, I pray you,—we are born captives and slaves,
the most noble, the most ingenuous, and the most free of us all. Paul speaks of it as a privilege
to be born free; to be free in man’s commonwealth. It is counted a dignity to be a free citizen
or burgess of a town. Liberty is the great claim of people now-a-days; and indeed it is the
great advantage of a people to enjoy that mother and womb privilege and right. But, alas! What
is all this to be free-born in a civil society? It is but the state of a man among men. It
reaches no further than the outward man, his life or estate. But here is a matter of greater
moment,—know you what state your souls are in? Your souls are incomparably more worth than
your bodies, as much as eternity surpasseth this inch of time, or immortality exceeds mortality.
Your souls are yourselves, indeed; your bodies are but your house or tabernacle you lodge into
for a season. Now then, I beseech you, ask whether you be born free or not. If your souls be
slaves, you are slaves indeed; for so the evangelist changeth these. Matthew saith, in chap.
xvi. 26, “what hath a man gained, if he lose his own soul?” And Luke, chap. ix. 25, saith,
what hath he gained, if he “lose himself?” Therefore you are not free indeed except your souls
be free. What is it, I pray you, to enjoy freedom among men? I ask you, what are you before
God, whether bond or free? This is the business indeed. The Pharisees pleaded a claim to the
liberty and privilege of being Abraham’s sons and children, and thought they might hence conclude
they were God’s children. But our Lord Jesus discovers this mistake, when he tells them of
a freedom and liberty that he came to proclaim to men, to purchase to them, and bestow on them.
They stumbled at this doctrine. What, say they, talkest thou to us of making us free? We were
never in bondage, because we be Abraham’s children. This is even the language of our hearts,
when we tell you, that ye are born heirs of wrath, and slaves of sin and Satan. Here is the
secret whispering of hearts;—we be Abraham’s seed; we were never in bondage to any. We be baptized
Christians; we have a church state,—have the privileges, and liberties, not only of subjects
in the state, but of members in the church; why sayest thou, we are bondmen? I would wish ye
were all free indeed, but that cannot be till you know your bondage. Consider then, I beseech
you, that you may be free subjects in a state, and free members in a church, and yet in bondage,
under the law of sin and death. This was the mistake; that was a ground of presumption in the
Jews, and occasioned their stumbling at this stone of salvation laid in Sion. You think you
have church privileges, and what needs more? Be not deceived,—you are servants of sin, and
therefore not free. There are two sorts or rather two ranks of persons in God’s house,—sons
and slaves. The son abides in the house for ever, the slave but for a time. When the time expires,
he must go out, or be cast out. The church is God’s house, but many are in it that will not
dwell in it. Many have the outward liberties of this house, that have no interest in the special
mercies and loving kindness proper to children. The time will come, that the most part of the
visible church, who are baptized, and have eaten with him at his table, and had a kind of friendship
to him here, shall be cast out as bondmen, and Isaac only shall be kept within, the child of
the promise. The house that is here hath some inward sanctuary, and some outer porches. Many
have access to these, that never enter within the secret of the Lord, and so shall not dwell
in the house above. It is not so much the business, who shall enter into the holy hill, but
who shall stand and dwell in it. The day of judgment will be a great day of excommunication.
O how many thousands will be then cut off from the church of the living God, and delivered
over to Satan, because they were really under his power, while they were church-members and
Abraham’s sons! Let me tell you then, that all of us were once in this state of bondage which
Christ speaks of,—he that “committeth sin is the servant of sin,” John viii. 34; “and the servant
abideth not in the house for ever.” So that I am afraid, many of us who are in the visible
church, and stand in this congregation, shall not have liberty to stand in the assembly of
the first-born, when all the sons are gathered in one to the new Jerusalem. Sin hath a right
over us, and it hath a power over us, and therefore it is called a law of sin. There is a kind
of authority that it hath over us, by virtue of God’s justice, and our own voluntary consent.
The Lord in his righteousness hath given over all the posterity of Adam, for his sin, which
he sinned, as a common person, representing us,—he hath given us all over to the power of a
body of death within us. Since man did choose to depart from his Lord, he hath justly delivered
him into the hands of a strange lord to have dominion over him. The transmitting of such an
original pollution, to all men, is an act of glorious justice. As he in justice gives men over
to the lusts of their own hearts now, for following of these lusts contrary to his will; so
was it, at first, “by one man’s disobedience many were made sinners,” and that, in God’s holy
righteousness, sin entered into the world, and had permission of God to subdue and conquer
the world to itself, because man would not be subject to God. But as there is the justice of
God in it, so there is a voluntary choice and election, which gives sin a power over us. We
choose a strange lord, and he lords it over us. We say to our lusts, come ye and rule over
us. We submit our reason, our conscience, and all, to the guidance and leading of our blind
affections and passions. We choose our bondage for liberty. And thus sin hath a kind of law
over us, by our own consent. It exerciseth a jurisdiction; and when once it is installed in
power and clothed with it, it is not so easy again to put it out of that throne. There is a
conspiring, so to speak, of these two, to make out the jurisdiction and authority of sin over
us. God gives us over to iniquity and unrighteousness, and we yield ourselves over to it. Rom.
vi. 16, 19, We yield our members servants to iniquity. A little pleasure or commodity is the
bait that ensnares us to this. We give up ourselves, and join to our idols, and God ratifies
it, in a manner, and passeth such a sentence,—Let them alone, he says, go ye every one and
serve your idols, Hos. iv. 17. Since ye would not serve me, be doing,—go serve your lusts,
look if they be better masters than I; look what wages they will give you.

Now, let us again consider what power sin hath, being thus clothed with a sort of authority.
O but it is mighty, and works mightily in men! It reigns in our mortal bodies, Rom. vi. 12.
Here is the throne of sin established in the lusts and affections of the body, and from hence
it emits laws and statutes, and sends out commands to the soul and whole man. Man chose at
first to hearken to the counsel of his senses, that said, it was pleasant and good to eat of
the forbidden fruit; but that counsel is now turned into a command. Sin hath gotten a sceptre
there, to rule over the spirit which was born a free prince. Sin hath conquered all our strength,
or we have given up unto it all our strength. Any truth that is in the conscience; any knowledge
of God, or religion, all this is incarcerated, detained in a prison of unrighteous affections.
Sin hath many strongholds and bulwarks in our flesh, and by these commands the whole spirit
and soul in man, and leads captive every thought to the obedience of the flesh. You know how
strong it was in holy Paul, Rom. vii.; what a mighty battle and wrestling he had, and how near
he was to fainting and giving over. How then must it have an absolute and sovereign full dominion
over men in nature!  There being no contrary principle within, by nature, to debate with it,
it rules  without much controlment. There may be many convictions of conscience, and sparkles
of light against sin, but these are quickly extinguished and buried. Nay, all these principles
of light and knowledge in the conscience, do oftentimes strengthen sin, as some things are
confirmed, not weakened, by opposition. Unequal and faint opposition strengthens the adversary,
as cold, compassing springs, makes them hotter. So it is here. Sin takes occasion, by the command,
to work “all manner of concupiscence,” Rom. vii. 8. Without the law, sin is in a manner dead;
but when any adversary appears, when our lusts and humours are crossed, then they unite their
strength against any such opposition, and bring forth more sinful sin.  The knowledge and conscience
that many have, serve nothing but to make their sins greater; to exasperate and imbitter their
spirits and lusts against God. “Why tormentest thou me before the time?” It is a devilish disposition
that is in us all,—We cannot endure the light, because our deeds are evil.

Let us but consider these particulars, and we shall know the power and dominion of sin. 1st,
Consider the extent of its dominion, both in regard of all men, and all in every man. I say,
all men,—there is none of us exempted from it; the most noble, and the most base. Sin is the
catholic king, the universal king, or rather Satan, who is the prince of this world, and he
rules the world, by this law of sin, which is even the contradiction of the law of God. Who
of you believes this, that Satan’s kingdom is so spacious,—that it is even over the most part
of the visible church? This is the emperor of the world. The Turk vainly arrogates this title
to himself, but the devil is truly so, and we have God’s own testimony for it. All kings, all
nobles, all princes, all people, rich and poor, high and low, are once subjects of this prince,
ruled by this  black law of sin. O know your condition, whose servants ye are! Think not within
yourselves, “we have Abraham for our father,”—we are baptized Christians. No, know that all
of us are once the children of Satan, and do his works, and fulfil his will. But moreover,
all that is in us is subject to this law of sin,—all the faculties of the soul. The understanding
is under the power of darkness, the affections under the power of corruption, the mind is blinded,
and the heart is hardened, the soul alienated from God, who is its life; all the members and
powers of a man yielded up as instruments of unrighteousness, every one to execute that wicked
law, and fulfil the lusts of the flesh. This dominion is over all a man’s actions, even those
that are in best account and esteem among men. Your honest, upright dealing with men, your
most religious performances to God, they are more conformed to the law of sin, than to the
law of God,—Hag. ii. 14. “This nation, and the work of their hands, and that which they offer,
is unclean.” All your works, your good works, are infected with this pollution. Sin hath defiled
your persons, and they defile all your actions,—the infection is mutual. These actions again
defile your persons still more: To the impure all things are impure, “even their mind and conscience
is defiled,” Tit. i. 15. Do what ye can, ye who are in nature cannot please God; it is but
obedience to the law of sin that is in you.

But 2d, Consider the intenseness and force of his power, how mighty it is in working against
all oppositions whatsoever, unless it be overcome by almighty power. Nothing but All-might
can conquer this power. The spirit that works in men by nature, is of such activity and efficacy,
that it drives men on furiously, as if they were possessed to their own ruin. How much hath
it of a man’s consent! And so it drives him strongly and irresistibly. Much will, desire, and
greediness, will make corruption run like a river, over all its banks set in the way thereof,—counsel,
persuasion, law, heaven, hell, yet men’s corruption must be over all these. Preaching, threatenings,
convictions of conscience, are but as flaxen ropes to bind a Samson. Sin within easily breaks
them. In a word, no created power is of sufficient virtue to bind the strong man; it must be
one mightier than he, and that is the Spirit of Jesus Christ. Do ye not see men daily drawn
after their lusts, as beasts, following their senses as violently as a horse rusheth to the
battle! If there be any gain or advantage to oil the wheels of affection, O how men run headlong!
There is no crying will hold them. In sum, sin is become all one with us; it is incorporate
into the man, and become one with his affections, and then these command.

Sermon VIII. All men are afraid to lose their liberties, and be made servants to strangers.
And indeed liberty, whether national or personal, even in civil respects, is a great mercy
and privilege. But alas! men know not, neither do they consider, what is the ground and reason
of such changes, and from what fountain it flows, that a nation for a long time free from a
foreign yoke, should now be made to submit their necks unto it. Many wonder that our nation,
unconquered in the days of ignorance and darkness, should now be conquered in the days of the
gospel; and there want not many ungodly spirits, that will rather impute the fault unto the
reformation of religion, than take it to themselves. There are many secret heart jealousies
among us, that Christ is a hard master, and cannot be served. But would you know the true original
of our apparent and threatened bondage? Come and see; come and consider something expressed
in these words. All your thoughts are busied about civil liberty; but you do not consider that
you are in bondage while you are free, and that to worse masters than you fear. We are under
a law of sin and death, that hath the dominion and sway in all men’s affections and conversations;
and when the glorious liberty of the sons of God is offered unto us in the gospel, when the
Son hath come to make us free, we love our own chains, and will not suffer them to be loosed.
Therefore it is that a nation that hath despised such a gracious offer of peace and freedom
in Jesus Christ, is robbed and spoiled of peace and freedom. When this law of the Spirit of
life in Christ is published, and proclaimed openly unto congregations, unto judicatories, and
unto persons, yet few do regard it. The generality are in bondage to a contrary law of sin,
and this they serve in the lusts thereof. Yea,—which most of all aggravates and heightens the
offence,—even after we have all of us professed a subjection to the law of God, and to Jesus
Christ, the King and Lawgiver, we are in an extraordinary way engaged to the Lord, by many
oaths and covenants, to be his people; we did consent that he should be our King, and that
we should be ruled in our profession and practice by his word and will, as the fundamental
laws of this his kingdom; we did solemnly renounce all strange lords, that had tyrannized over
us; and did swear against them, never to yield willing obedience unto them; namely, the lusts
of the world, ignorance of God, unbelief, and disobedience. Now what became of all this work,
you may know. The generality of all ranks have rebelled against that Lord and Prince, and withdrawn
from his allegiance, and revolted unto the same lusts and ways—these same courses against which
we had, both by our profession of Christianity and solemn oaths, engaged ourselves. And so
men have voluntarily and heartily subjected themselves unto the laws of sin, and desires of
the flesh. Hence is the beginning of our ruin. Because we would not serve our own God and Lord
in our own land, therefore are so many led away captive(169) to serve strangers in another
land, therefore we are like to be captives in our own land. Because we refused homage to our
God, and obeyed strange lords within, therefore are we given up to the lust of strangers without.

I would have you thinking, and that seriously, that there are worse masters you serve than
those you most hate, and that there is a worse bondage, whereof you are insensible, than that
you fear most. You fear strangers, but your greatest evil is within you. You might retire within,
and behold worse masters, and more pernicious and mortal enemies to your well-being. This is
the case of all men by nature, and of all men as far as in nature; sin ruling, commanding in
them, and lording it over them, and they willingly following after the commandment, and so
oppressed and broken in judgment. If you could but rightly look upon other men, you might see,
that they who are servants of divers lusts, are not their own men, so to speak; they have not
the command of themselves. Look upon a man given to drunkenness, and what a slave is he! Whither
doth not his lust drive him? Let him bind himself with resolutions, with vows, yet he cannot
be holden by them. Shame before men, loss of estate, decay of health, temporal punishment,
nay, eternal, all set together, cannot keep him from fulfilling the desires of that lust, when
he hath opportunity. A man given to covetousness, how doth he serve that idol! How doth he
forget himself to be a man!—or to have a reasonable soul within him, he is so devoted to it!
And thus it is with every man by nature. There may be many petty little gods that he worships
upon occasion, but every unrenewed man hath some one thing predominant in him, unto which he
hath sworn obedience and devotion. The man most civilized, most abstracted from the grosser
outward pollutions,—yet certainly, his heart within is but a temple full of idols, to the love
and service of which he is devoted. There are some of the fundamental laws of Satan’s kingdom,
that rule in every natural man,—either the lust of the eyes, or the lust of the flesh, or the
pride of life. Every man sacrificeth to one of these his credit and honour, or his pleasure,
or his profit. Self, whatever way refined and subtilized in some, yet at best it is but an
enemy to God; and without that sphere of self cannot a man act upon natural principles, till
a higher Spirit come in, which is here spoken of.

Oh! that you would take this for bondage, to be under this woful necessity of satisfying and
fulfilling the desires of your flesh and mind, Eph. ii. 2. Many account it only liberty and
freedom, therefore they look upon the laws of the Spirit of life as cords and bonds, and consult
to cast them off, and cut them asunder. But consider what a wretched life you have with your
imperious lusts. The truth is, sin is for the most part its own punishment. I am sure you have
more labour and toil in fulfilling the lusts of sin, than you might have in serving God. Men’s
lusts are never at quiet, they are continually putting you on service, they are still driving
and dragging men headlong, hurrying them to and fro, and they cannot get rest. What is the
cause of all the disquiet, disorder, confusion, trouble, and wars in the world? From whence
do contentions arise? “Come they not hence,” saith James, iv. 1, “even of your lusts that war
in your members?” It is these that trouble the world, and these are the troublers of Israel’s
peace. These take away inward peace, domestic peace, and national peace. These lusts, covetousness,
ambition, pride, passion, self-love, and such like, do set nation against nation, men and men,
people and people, by the ears. These multiply businesses beyond necessity; these multiply
cares without profit, and so bring forth vexation and torment. If a man had his lusts subdued,
and his affections composed unto moderation and sobriety, O what a multitude of noisome and
hurtful cares should he then be freed from! What a sweet calmness should possess that spirit!
Will you be persuaded of it, beloved in the Lord, that it were easier to serve the Lord than
to serve your lusts,—that they cost you more labour, disquiet, perplexity, and sorrow, than
the Lord’s service will; that so you may weary of such masters, and groan to be from under
such a law of sin.

But if that will not suffice to persuade you, then consider, in the next room, if you will
needs serve a law of sin, you must needs be subject to a law of death. If you will not be persuaded
to quit the service of sin, then tell me, what think you of your wages? “The wages of sin is
death,”—that you may certainly expect; and can you look and long for such wages? God hath joined
these together by a perpetual ordinance. They came into the world together,—“sin entered, and
death by sin;” and they have gone hand in hand together since. And think you to dissolve what
God hath joined? Before you go farther, and obey sin more, think, I pray you, what it can give
you,—what doth it give you for the present, but much pain, and toil, and vexation, instead
of promised pleasure and satisfaction? Sin doth with all men, as the devil doth with some of
his sworn vassals and servants. They have a poor wretched life with him. They are wearied and
troubled, to satisfy all his unreasonable and imperious commands. He loads them with base service,
and they are still kept in expectation of some great reward; but for the present, they have
nothing but misery and trouble. And at length he becomes the executioner, and perpetual tormentor
of them whom he made to serve him. Such a master is sin, and such wages you may expect. Consider
then, what your expectation is, before you go on, or engage further,—death. We are under a
law of bodily death, therefore we are mortal. Our house is like a ruinous lodge, that drops
through, and one day or other it must fall. Sin hath brought in the seeds of corruption into
men’s nature, which dissolve it, else it had been immortal. But there is a worse death after
this, a living death, in respect of which simple death would be chosen rather. Men will rather
live very miserably than die. Nature hath an aversion to it,—“skin for skin, and all for life
will a man give.” Death imports a destruction of being, which every thing naturally seeks to
preserve. But O what a dreadful life is it, worse than death, when men will choose death rather
than life! O how terrible will it be to hear that word, “Hills and mountains, fall on us, and
cover us!” Men newly risen, their bodies and souls meet again after a long separation, and
this to be their mutual entertainment one to another,—the body to wish it were still in the
dust, and the soul to desire it might never be in the body! Surely if we had so much grace
as to believe this, and tremble at it, before we be forced to act it, there were some hope.
If we could persuade ourselves once of this, that the ways of sin, all of them, how pleasant,
how profitable soever, whatsoever gain they bring in, whatsoever satisfaction they give, that
they are nothing else but “the ways of death,” and go down to the chambers of hell; that they
will delude and deceive us, and so in end destroy us;—if we might once believe this with our
heart, there were some hope that we would break off from them, and choose the untrodden paths
of godliness, which are pleasantness and peace. However, this is the condition of all men,
once to be under sin, and under a sentence of death for sin. It is the unbelief of this, and
a conceit of freedom, that securely and certainly destroys the world, by keeping souls from
Jesus Christ, the Prince of Life.

But there is a delivery, and that is the thing expressed in the words. There is freedom from
both attainable. And I think, the very hearing of such a thing, that there is a redemption
from sin and misery possible, yea, and that some are actually delivered from it; this might
stir up in our hearts some holy ambition, and earnest desire after such a state. How might
it awaken our hearts after it! But this is the wofulness of a natural condition, that a soul
under the power of sin can neither help itself nor rightly desire help from another, because
the will is captive too. This makes it a very desperate and remediless business to any human
expectation, because such a soul is well-pleased with its own fetters, and loves its own prison,
and so can neither long for freedom, nor welcome the Son who is come to make free. But yet,
there is a freedom and delivery; and if ye ask who are partakers of it, the text declares it
to you,—even those who are in Jesus Christ, and walk according to the Spirit of Christ. All
those, and those only, who, finding themselves “dead in trespasses and sins,” under the power
and dominion of sin, and likewise under the sentence of death and condemnation, begin to lift
up their heads upon the hope of a Saviour, and to look unto their Redeemer as poor prisoners,
whose eyes and looks are strong entreaties, and instead of many requests;—such as give an entire
renounce unto their former ways and prevailing lusts, and give up themselves, in testimony
of their sense of his unspeakable favour of redemption, to be wholly his, and not their own.
There are some souls who are free from the dominion of sin, and from the danger of death, some
who were once led about with divers lusts, as well as others, who walked after the course of
this world, and fulfilled the desires of the flesh, and were children of wrath, as well as
others; but now they are quickened in Christ Jesus, and have abandoned their former way. They
have another rule, another way, other principles. Their study is now to please God, and grow
in holiness. The ways they delighted in, in former times, are now loathsome. They think that
a filthy puddle, which they drank greedily of; and now it is all, or their chiefest grief and
burden, that so much of that old man must be carried about with them,—and so this expresseth
many groans from them with Paul, “Woe is me, miserable man! who shall deliver me?” Such souls
are, in a manner, so to speak, half redeemed, who being made sensible of their bondage, groan
and pant for a Redeemer. The day of their complete redemption is at hand. All of you are witnesses
of this, that there are some thus freed, but they are signs and wonders indeed to the world.
Their kinsmen, their acquaintance, their friends and neighbours, wonder what is become of them.
They think it strange they walk not, and run not into that same excess of riot with them. But
whosoever thou art, that art escaped from under the slavery of sin, wonder at the world, that
doth run so madly on their own destruction. Think it strange, that thou didst run so long with
them, and that all will not run in these pleasant ways with thee. Think it strange that thou
runnest so slowly, when so great a prize is to be obtained,—an immortal and never-fading crown.
If mortifying and crucifying the lusts of the flesh, if dying to the world, and to thyself,
seem very hard and unpleasant to thee, if it be as the plucking out of thine eye, and cutting
off thine hand; know then, that corruption is much alive yet, and hath much power in thee.
But remember, that if thou canst have but so much grace and resolution, as to kill and crucify
these lusts, without foolish and hurtful pity,—if thou canst attain that victory over thyself,
thou shalt never be a loser. Thou canst not repent it afterward. To die to ourselves and the
world, to kill sin within—O that makes way to a life hid from the world, one hour whereof is
better than many ages in sinful pleasure! Quicken thyself often with this thought, that there
is a true life after such a death, and that thou canst not pass into it, but by the valley
of the death of thy lusts. Remember, that thou dost but kill thine enemies, which embrace that
they may strangle thee; and then stir up yourself with this consideration,—the life of sin
will be thy death. Better enter heaven without these lusts, than go to hell with them.

Sermon IX. Other conquerors invade men against their will, and so they rule against their will.
They retain men in subjection by fear and not by love. And so whenever any occasion offers,
they are glad to cast off the yoke of unwilling obedience. But sin hath first conquered men’s
judgment, by blinding it,—putting out the eye of the understanding, and then invaded the affections
of men, drawn them over to its side; and by these, it keeps all in a most willing obedience.
Now, what hopes are there then of delivery, when the prisoner accounts his bondage liberty,
and his prison a palace? What expectation of freedom, when all that is within us conspires
to the upholding that tyrannous dominion of sin, against all that would cast off its usurpation,
as if they were mortal enemies?

Yet there is a delivery possible, but such as would not have entered into the heart of man
to imagine; and it is here expressed,—“the law of the Spirit of life,” &c. This declares how,
and by what means, we may be made free. Not indeed by any power within us, not by any created
power without us. Sin is stronger than all these, because its imperial seat is within, far
without the reach of all created power. There may be some means used by men, to beat it out
of the outworks of the outward man, to chase it out of the external members; some means to
restrain it from such gross out-breakings; but there is none can lay siege to the soul within,
or storm the understanding and will, where it hath its principal residence. It is inaccessible,
and impregnable by any human power. No entreaties or persuasions, no terrors or threatenings,
can prevail; it can neither be stormed by violence, nor undermined by skill, because it is
within the spirit of the mind; until at length some other spirit stronger than our spirit come;
till the Spirit of life which is in Christ, come and bind the strong man, and so make the poor
soul free. You heard that we were under a law of death, and under the power of sin. Now there
is another law, answering this law, and a power to overcome this power. You may indeed ask,
by what law or authority can a sinner that is bound over, by God’s justice, unto death and
condemnation, be released? Is there any law above God’s law, and the sentence of his justice?
The apostle answers, that there is a law above it, a law after it,—“the law of the Spirit of
life.” Jesus Christ opposes law unto law, the law of life unto the law of death; the gospel
unto the law, the second covenant unto the first. Thus it is then, Jesus Christ, the eternal
Son of God, full of grace and truth, did come in man’s stead, when the law and sentence of
death was passed upon all mankind, and there was no expectation, from the terms of the first
covenant, that there should be any dispensation or mitigation of the rigour of it. He obtains
this, that so many as God had chosen unto life, their sins and their punishment might be laid
on him. And so he took part of our flesh, for this end, that he might be made a curse for us,
and so redeem us from the curse. Thus, having satisfied justice, and fulfilled the sentence
of death, by suffering death,—“Him hath God exalted to be a Prince and a Saviour,” and the
head of all things. In compensation of this great and weighty work given him by his Father,
all judgment is committed to him, and so he sends out and proclaims another law in Zion; another
sentence, even of life and absolution, unto all, and upon all them that shall believe in his
name. Thus you see the law of death abrogated by a new law of life, because our Lord and Saviour
was made under the law of death, and suffered under it, and satisfied it, that all his seed
might be freed from it, and might come under a life-giving law. So that it appears to be true,
that was said at first, “there is no condemnation to them that are in Christ,”—there is no
law, no justice against them.

But then another difficulty as great as the former is in the way. Though such a law and sentence
of life and absolution be pronounced in the gospel, in Christ’s name, yet we are dead in sins
and trespasses. We neither know nor feel our misery, nor can we come to a Redeemer. As there
was a law of death above our head, so there is a law of sin within our hearts, which rules
and commands us; and there is neither will nor ability to escape from under it. It is true,
life and freedom is preached in Christ, to all that come to him for life. To all that renounce
sin’s dominion is remission of sin preached. But here is the greatest difficulty,—how can a
dead soul stir, rise, and walk,—how can a slave to sin, and a willing captive, renounce it,
when he hath neither to will nor to do? Indeed, if all had been purchased for us, if eternal
life and forgiveness of sins had been brought near us, and all the business done to our consent,
and that only wanting; if these had been the terms, I have purchased life, now rise and embrace
it of yourselves, truly it had been an unsuccessful business. Christ had lost all that was
given him, if the moment and weight of our salvation had been hung upon our acceptation. Therefore,
it is well provided for this also, that there should be a power to overcome this power, a spirit
of life in Christ to quicken dead sinners, and raise them up, and draw them to him. And so,
the second Adam hath this prerogative beyond the first, that he is not only a living soul in
himself, but a quickening Spirit to all that are given him of the Father, 1 Cor. xv. 45. So
then, as Christ Jesus hath law and right on his side, to free us from death, so he hath virtue
and power in him to accomplish our delivery from sin. As he hath fair law to loose the chains
of condemnation, and to repeal the sentence passed against us, without prejudice to God’s justice,
he having fully satisfied the same in our name, so he hath sufficient power given him to loose
the fetters of sin from off us. When he hath paid the price, and satisfied the Father, so that
justice can crave nothing, yet he hath one adversary to deal with. Satan hath sinners bound
with the cords of their own lusts, in a prison of darkness and unbelief. Jesus Christ therefore
comes out to conquer this enemy, and to redeem his elect ones from that unjust usurpation of
sin,—to bring them out of the prison by the strong hand. And therefore, he is one mighty and
able to save to the uttermost; he hath might to do it, as well as right to it.

Consider, then, my beloved, these two things, which are the breasts of our consolation, and
the foundation of our hope. We are once lost and utterly undone, both in regard of God’s justice,
and our own utter inability to help ourselves, which is strengthened by our unwillingness,
and thus made a more desperate business. Now, God hath provided a suitable remedy; he hath
“laid help on one that is mighty,” indeed, who hath almighty power; and by his power he first
conflicted with the punishment of our sins, and with his Father’s wrath, and hath overcome,
discharged, and satisfied that, and so hath purchased a right unto us, to give salvation to
whom he will. He conquered, and by his power obtained this supreme authority of life and death.

Now, having this authority established in his person, the next work is to apply this purchase,—actually
to confer this life. And therefore he hath almighty power to raise up dead sinners; to create
us again to good works; to redeem us from the tyranny of sin and Satan, whose slaves we are.
He hath a Spirit of life, which he communicates to his seed; he breathes it into those souls
that he died for, and dispossesseth that powerful corruption that dwells in us. Hence it comes
to pass, that they walk after the Spirit, though they be in the flesh; because the powerful
Spirit of Christ hath entered, and taken possession of their spirits, Isa. lix. 20, 21.

Let us not be discouraged in our apprehensions of Christ. When we look on our ruinous and desperate
estate, let us not conclude, it is past hope, and past his help too. We do proclaim, in the
name of Jesus Christ, that there is no sinner, howsoever justly under a sentence of death and
damnation, but they may in him find a relaxation from that sentence, and that without the impairing
of God’s justice. And this is a marvellous ground of comfort, that may establish our souls,
(1 John i. 9.) even this, that law and justice is upon Christ’s side, and nothing to accuse
or plead against a sinner that employs him for his advocate. But know this also, that you are
not delivered from death that you may live under sin; nay, you are redeemed from death, that
you may be freed from the law of sin. But that must be done by his almighty Spirit, and cannot
be otherwise done.

I know not whether of these is matter of greatest comfort,—that there is in Christ a redemption
from the wrath of God and from hell; and that there is a redemption too, from sin, and corruption
which dwells within us. But sure I am, both of them will be most sweet and comfortable to a
believer; and without both, Christ were not a complete Redeemer, nor we completely redeemed.
Neither would a believing soul, in which there is any measure of this new law and divine life,
be satisfied without both these. Many are miserably deluded in their apprehensions of the gospel.
They take it up thus, as if it were nothing but a proclamation of freedom from misery, from
death and damnation; and so the most part catch at nothing else in it, and from thence take
liberty to walk after their former lusts and courses. This is the woful practical use that
the generality of hearers make of the free intimation of pardon, and forgiveness of sin, and
delivery from wrath. They admit some general notion of that, and stop there, and examine not
what further is in the gospel; and so you will see the slaves of sin professing a kind of hope
of freedom from death,—the servants and vassals of corruption, who walk after the course of
this world, and fulfil the lusts and desires of their mind and flesh, yet fancying a freedom
and immunity from condemnation,—men living in sin, yet thinking of escaping wrath,—which dreams
could not be entertained in men, if they did drink in all the truth, and open both their ears
to the gospel; if our spirits were not narrow and limited, and so excluded the one half of
the gospel, that is, our redemption from sin. There is too much of this, even among the children
of God,—a strange narrowness of spirit, which admits not whole and entire truth. It falls out
often, that when we think of delivery from death and wrath, we forget in the mean time the
end and purpose of that, which is, that we may be freed from sin, and serve the living God
without fear. And if at any time we consider, and busy our thoughts about freedom from the
law of sin, and victory over corruption, such is the scantiness of room and capacity in our
spirits, that we lose the remembrance of delivery from death and condemnation in Christ Jesus.
Thus we are tossed between two extremes,—the quicksands of presumption and wantonness, and
the rocks of unbelief and despair or discouragement, both of which do kill the Christian’s
life, and make all to fade and wither. But this were the way, and only way, to preserve the
soul in good ease,—even to keep these two continually in our sight, that we are redeemed from
death and misery in Christ, and that not to serve ourselves, or to continue in our sins, but
that we may be redeemed from that sin that dwells in us, and that both these are purchased
by Jesus Christ, and done by his power,—the one in his own person, the other by his Spirit
within us. I would have you correcting your misapprehensions of the gospel. Do not so much
look on victory and freedom from sin as a duty and task, though we be infinitely bound to it;
but rather as a privilege and dignity conferred upon us by Christ. Look not upon it, I say,
only as your duty, as many do; and by this means are discouraged from the sight of their own
infirmity and weakness, as being too weak for such a strong party; but look upon it as the
one half, and the greater half, of the benefit conferred by Christ’s death,—as the greater
half of the redemption which the Redeemer, by his office, is bound to accomplish. He will redeem
Israel from all his iniquities; “with him is plenteous redemption,” Psal. cxxx. 7, 8. This
is the plenty, this is the sufficiency of it,—that he redeems not only from misery, but from
iniquity, and that all iniquities. I would not desire a believer’s soul to be in a better posture
here away,(170) than this,—to be looking upon sin indwelling as his bondage, and redemption
from it as freedom; to account himself in so far free, as the free Spirit of Christ enters
and writes that free law of love and obedience in his heart, and blots out these base characters
of the law of sin. It were a good temper to be groaning for the redemption of the soul, and
why doth a believer groan for the redemption of the body, but because he shall then be freed
wholly from the law of sin, and from the presence of sin? I know not a greater argument to
a gracious heart, to subdue his corruption, and strive for freedom from the law of sin, than
the freedom obtained from the law of death. Nor is there any clearer argument and evidence
of a soul delivered from death than to strive for the freedom of the spirit from the law of
sin. These jointly help one another. Freedom from death will raise up a Christian’s heart to
aspire to a freedom and liberty from sin, and again, freedom from sin will witness and evidence
that such an one is delivered from death. When freedom from death is an inducement to seek
after freedom from sin, and freedom from sin a declaration of freedom from death, then all
is well, and indeed thus it will be in some measure with every soul that is quickened by this
new law of the Spirit of life, for it is the entry of this that expels its contrary, the law
of sin. And indeed the law must enter, the command and the promise must enter into the soul,
and the affections of the soul be enlivened thereby, or rather the soul changed into the similitude
of that mould or else the having of it in a book, or in one’s memory and understanding, will
never make him the richer or freer. A Christian looks to the pattern of the law, and the word
of the gospel without, but he must be changed into the image of it, by beholding it, and so
he becomes a living law to himself. The Spirit writes these precepts and practices of Christ’s,
in which he commands imitation, upon the fleshly tables of the heart. And now the law is not
a rod above his head, as above a slave, but it is turned into a law of love within his heart
and hath something like a natural instinct in it. All that men can do, either to themselves
or others, will not purchase the least measure of freedom from predominant corruptions, cannot
deliver you from your sins, till this free Spirit that blows where he pleases, come. It is
our part to hoise up sails, and wait for the wind, to use means, and wait on him in his way
and order. But all will be in vain, till this stronger one come and cast out the strong man,
till this arbitrary and free wind blow from heaven, and fill the sails. And it must needs be
some great business, that drew so excellent and glorious a person out of heaven. The plot and
contrivance of the world was a profound piece of wisdom and goodness, the making of men after
God’s image was done by a high and glorious counsel. “Let us make man after our image.” There
was something special in this expression, importing some peculiar excellency in the work itself,
or some special depth of design about it. But what think you of this consultation,—let one
of us be made man, after man’s image and likeness. That must be a strange piece of wisdom and
grace. “Great is the mystery of godliness, God manifested in the flesh.” No wonder though Paul
cried out, as one swallowed up with this mystery, for indeed it must be some odd matter beyond
all that is in the creation, wherein there are many mysteries, able to swallow up any understanding,
but that in which they were first formed. This must be the chief of the works of God, the rarest
piece of them all—God to become man, the Creator of all to come in the likeness of a creature,—he
by whom all things were created, and do yet consist to come in the likeness of the most wretched
of all. Strange, that we do not dwell more, in our thoughts and affections, on this subject.
Either we do not believe it or if we did, we could not but be ravished with admiration at it.
John, the beloved disciple who was often nearest unto Christ, dwelt most upon this, and made
it the subject of his preaching, “that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, and
seen, and handled, &c.” 1 John i. 1. He speaks of that mystery, as if he were embracing Jesus
Christ in his arms, and holding him out to others, saying “Come and see.” This divine mystery
is the subject of these words read, but the mystery is somewhat unfolded and opened up to you
in them, yet so as it will not diminish, but increase the wonder of a believing soul. It is
ignorance that magnifies other mysteries, which vilifies thorough knowledge; but it is the
true knowledge of this mystery that makes it the more wonderful, whereas ignorance only makes
it common and despicable.

There are three things then, of special consideration in the words, which may declare and open
unto you something of this mystery.

First, What was the ground and reason, or occasion of the Son’s sending into the world; next,
What the Son, being sent, did in the world; and the third, For what end and use it was,—what
fruit we have by it.

The ground and reason of God sending his Son, is because there was an impossibility in the
law to save man, which impossibility was not the law’s fault, but man’s defect, by reason of
the weakness and impotency of our flesh to fulfil the law. Now, God having chosen some to life,
and man having put this obstruction and impediment in his own way, which made it impossible
for the law to give him life, though it was first given out as the way of life; therefore,
that God should not fail in this glorious design of saving his chosen, he chose to send his
own Son, in the likeness of flesh, as the only remedy of the law’s impossibility. That which
Christ, being sent into the likeness of flesh did, is the condemning of sin in the flesh, by
a sacrifice offered for sin,—even the sacrifice of his own body upon the cross. He came in
the likeness not of the flesh simply, for he was really a man; but in the likeness of sinful
flesh,—though without sin, yet like a sinner,—as to the outward appearance, a sinner, because
subject to all those infirmities and miseries which sin did first open a door for. Sin was
the inlet of afflictions, of bodily infirmities and necessities, of death itself; and when
the floods of these did overflow Christ’s human nature, it was a great presumption to the world,
who look and judge according to the outward appearance, that sin was the sluice opened to let
in such an inundation of calamity. Now, he being thus in the likeness of a sinner, though not
a sinner,—he, for sin, that is, because of sin, that had entered upon man, and made life impossible
to him by the law; by occasion of that great enemy of God which had conquered mankind, he condemned
sin in his flesh, he overthrew it in its plea and power against us. He condemned that which
condemned us, overcame it in judgment, and made us free. By sustaining the curse of it in his
flesh, he cut off all its plea against us. This is the great work and business, which was worthy
of so noble a messenger, his own Son, sent to conquer his greatest enemy that he hates most.
And then, in the third place, you see what benefit or fruit redounds to us by it; what was
the end and purpose of it,—verse 4, “that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in
us;” that seeing it was impossible for us to fulfil the righteousness of the law, and that
so it became impossible to the law to fulfil our reward of life, it might be fulfilled by him
in our name; and so the righteousness of the law being fulfilled in us by Christ, the reward
also of eternal life might be fulfilled by the law to us,—he having removed the impediment
of our weakness, it might be not only possible, but certain to us.

You would consider then the reason of Christ’s coming. God made at first a covenant with man,
promising him life upon perfect obedience to his law; and threatening death and damnation upon
the transgression thereof. You see then, what was the way of life to Adam in the state of innocency.
He was made able to satisfy the law with obedience, and the law was abundantly able to satisfy
him, by giving life unto him. God’s image upon man’s soul instructed him sufficiently for the
one and the Lord’s promise made to him was as sufficient to accomplish the other; so that there
was no impossibility then in the law, by reason of the strength which God gave man. But it
continued not long so. Sin entering upon man, utterly disabled him; and because the strength
of that covenant consisted in that mutual and joint concurrence of God’s promise and man’s
obedience—this being broken, (the one party falling off,) that life and salvation becomes impossible
to the promise alone to perform. It is sin that is the weakness and impotency of man. This
is the disease which hath consumed his strength, and concluded man under a twofold impossibility,
an impossibility to satisfy the curse, and an impossibility to obey the command. There are
three things in the covenant of works,—a command of obedience, and a threatening of wrath and
condemnation upon disobedience, and a promise of life upon obedience. Sin hath disabled us
every way. In relation to the curse and threatening, man cannot satisfy it—no price, no ransom
being found sufficient for the soul for the redemption of it is precious, and ceaseth for ever.
That curse hath infinite wrath in it, which must needs swallow up finite man. And then in relation
to the command, there is such a diminution of all the powers of the soul, such a corruption
and defilement, by reason of the first sin, that that wherein man’s strength lay, which was
God’s image, is cut off and spoiled, so that henceforth it is become impossible to yield any
acceptable obedience to the commandment. And hence it is, from our impossibility to obey in
time to come, that there is a holy and faultless impossibility upon the promise, to give life
unto mankind. So you see that the law cannot do it, because of our weakness. If either man,
while he was made upright, had continued in obedience, or man now fallen from uprightness,
could satisfy for the fault done, and walk without any blemish in time coming, then it were
feasible for the law to give life to us. But the one was not done, and the other now cannot
be done, and so the impossibility of life by works, is refounded upon ourselves, who would
not when we could, and now neither will nor can obey. Thus we may see clearly, that all mankind
must needs perish, for any thing that man can do, and according to that first transaction of
God with man, unless some other way and device be found out, which indeed was far from the
eyes of all living,—without the reach of their invention or imagination. I believe if all the
creatures, higher or lower, that have any reason, had convened to consult of this business,
how to repair that breach made in the creation by man’s sin, they might have vexed their brains,
and racked their inventions unto all eternity, and yet never have fallen upon any probable
way of making up this breach. They might have taken up a lamentation, not as the bemoaners
of Babylon’s ruin,—“we would have healed thee, and thou wouldst not,”—but rather thus,—we would
heal thee, but we could not, and thou wouldst not. This design, which is here mentioned of
repairing the breach, by destroying that which made it, sin, lay hid in the depth of God’s
wisdom, till it pleased himself to vent and publish it unto poor, forlorn, and desperate man,
who, out of despair of recovery, had run away to hide himself. A poor shift indeed, for him
to think that he could hide himself from him to whom darkness is as light, and to flee from
him whose kingdom is over all, and who is present in all the corners of his universal kingdom,—in
hell, in heaven, in the utmost corners of the earth. But this silly invention shows how hopeless
the case was.

Though this be the case and condition of man by nature, yet strange it is, to see every man
by nature attempting his own delivery, and fancying a probability, yea, a certainty of that
which is so impossible, that is an attaining of life by ourselves, according to the law and
first covenant of works. Though our strength be gone, yet, like Samson, men rise up and think
to walk and rouse up themselves as in former times, as if their strength were yet in them,
and many never perceive that it is gone, till they be laid hold on by Satan according to the
law’s injunction, and bound in the chains of everlasting darkness. But then, alas! it is too
late, for they cannot save themselves, and the season of a Saviour is gone. And this, no doubt,
will be the accession of the bitterness and torment that damned souls shall be into,—that they
dreamed of attaining life by a law that now is nothing but a ministration of death,—that they
lost life by seeking their own righteousness, and made the law more able to condemn them, by
their apprehending in themselves an ability to satisfy it, and by resting in a form of obedience
to it. There is something natural in it. Adam and all his posterity were once to be saved this
way,—so the terms run at first, “do this and live.” No wonder that something of that impression
be retained; but that which was a virtue in Adam, while he retained integrity, and fulfilled
his duty, is a mighty fault, and presumptuous madness in us, who have fallen from that blessed
estate. If man, doing his duty, expected a reward, according to the promise, it was commendable,
but for man, now rebellious and stubborn, and come short of the glory of God, to look for a
reward from God, against whom he warneth continually, and that for rebellion and enmity, it
is damnable. But besides this, I think this principle of self righteousness is much corrupted
in man now, by what it was in Adam. I conceive, though Adam looked for life upon obedience,
according to the promise, yet he rested not on, and trusted not in, his obedience. I believe,
a holy and righteous man would be a humble man too, and would rather glory in God’s grace than
in his own works. The sense of a free and undeserved promise would not suffer him to reflect
so much upon his own obedience, or put such a price upon it. But now, it is conjoined with
unmeasurable pride, and arises only from self-love. There is no ground of men’s looking to
be saved by their own doings, but the inbred pride and self love of the heart, together with
the ignorance of a better righteousness. Adam hid himself among the trees, and covered his
nakedness with leaves, and truly the shift of the most part is no better. How vain and empty
things do men trust unto, and from them conclude an expectation of eternal life! The most part
think to be safe in the midst or thick of the trees of the church. If they be in the throng
of a visible church, and adorned with church privileges, as baptism, hearing the word, and
such like, they do persuade themselves all will be well. Some have civility, and a blameless
conversation before men, and with such acts of righteousness, or rather wants of some gross
outbreakings, do many cover their nakedness. If there be yet a larger and finer garment of
profession of religion, and some outward performances of service to God, and duties to men,
O then, men do enforce upon their own hearts the persuasion of heaven, and think their nakedness
cannot be seen through it! These are the coverings, these are the grounds of claim and title,
that men have to eternal life, and in the meantime they are ignorant of that large glorious
robe of righteousness, which Christ, by his obedience and sufferings, did weave for naked sinners.

But as the impossibility of the law’s saving us, by reason of the weakness of the flesh, was
the ground and occasion of Christ’s coming into the flesh for to supply that defect, and take
away that impossibility, so the sense and sight of this impossibility in us to satisfy and
fulfill the law, and of the law to give life, is the very ground and reason of a soul’s coming
to Jesus Christ for the supplying of this want. As the Son should not have come in the likeness
of sinful flesh, unless it had been otherwise impossible, by man’s doing or suffering, that
life should be obtained, so will not a soul come to Christ, the Son of God, through the vail
of his flesh, until it discern and feel that it is otherwise impossible to satisfy the law
or attain life. That was the impulsive cause (if we may say that there was any cause beside
his love) why Christ came,—even man’s misery, and remediless misery. And this is the strong
motive and impulsive, that drives a poor sinner unto Jesus Christ,—the sense and impression
of his desperate and lost estate without him. As there was first sin, and then a Saviour dying
for sin, because nothing else could suffice, so there must be in the soul, first, the apprehension
of sin, and that remediless sin, sin incurable by any created power or act, and then a sight
of a Saviour coming to destroy sin and the works of the devil, and destroying it by dying for
it. There is no employment for this Physician upon every slight apprehension of a wound or
sickness, till it be found incurable, and help sought elsewhere be seen to be in vain. Indeed,
upon the least apprehension of sin and misery, men ought to come to Christ. We shall not set
or prescribe any measure of conviction to exclude you, if you can but come to him indeed. Upon
the least measure of it, you will not be cast out, according to his own word, but as certain
it is, that men will not come to this Physician till they find no other can save them. These
two things I wish were deeply and seriously thought upon,—that you cannot satisfy God’s justice
for the least point of guilt, and then, that you cannot do any thing in obedience to please
God. There is a strange inconsideration, yea, I may say, ignorance among us. When you are challenged
and convinced of sin, (as there is no conscience so benumbed, but in some measure it accuseth
every man of many wrongs,) what is the course you fall on to pacify it or please God? Indeed,
if you can get any shadow of repentance, if it were but a bare acknowledgment of the fault,
you excuse yourselves in your own consciences, and answer the accusation by it. Either some
other good works formerly done occur to you, or some resolution for amendment in time coming.
And this you think shall pacify God and satisfy justice. But, alas! you are far from the righteousness
of God, and you do err even in the very foundation of religion. These are but sparks of your
own kindling, and for all these, you shall lie down in darkness and sorrow. These are but the
vain expiations and excuses of natural consciences, which are led to some sense of a deity
by the law written in their heart. But consider this once,—you must first satisfy the curse
of the law which you are under, before you can be in any capacity to please him by new obedience.
Now, if you should undertake to pay for your former breaches of the law, that will eternally
ruin you; and therefore, you see the punishment is lengthened throughout eternity to them who
have this to undergo alone. Go then, and first suffer the eternal wrath of an infinite God,
and then come and offer obedience if thou can. But now, thou art in a double error, both of
which are damnable; one is, thou thinkest thou art able, by consideration and resolution, to
perform some acceptable obedience to God; another, that performance of obedience, and amending
in time coming, will expiate former transgressions. If either of these were true, Christ needed
not to have come in the likeness of sinful flesh, because it had been possible for the law
to save thee. But now, the truth is, such is the utter disability and impotency of man through
sin, that he can neither will, nor do the least good, truly good and pleasant to God. His nature
and person being defiled, all he doth is unclean. And then, suppose it were possible that man
could do any thing in obedience to his commands, yet it being unquestionable that all have
sinned, satisfaction must first be made to God’s threatening, “thou shalt die,” before obedience
be acceptable, and that is impossible too. This, then, I leave upon your consciences, beseeching
you to lay to heart the impossibility you are encompassed with on both hands; justice requiring
a ransom, and you have none, and justice requiring new obedience again, and you can give none;
old debts urging you, and new duty pressing you, and ye alike disabled for both; that so finding
yourselves thus environed with indigency and impossibility within, you may be constrained to
flee out of yourselves unto him that is both able and willing. This is not a superficial business,
as you make it. It is not a matter of fancy, or memory, or expression, as most make it. Believe
me, it is a serious business, a soul-work, such an exercise of spirit as useth to be when the
soul is between despair and hope. Impossibility within, driving a soul out of itself, and possibility,
yea, certainty of help without, even in Christ, drawing a soul in to him. Thus is the closure
made, which is the foundation of our happiness.

Sermon XI. I would we knew it,—then it might be to some better purpose. In all other things
we are rational, and do nothing of moment without some end and purpose. But, alas! in this
matter of greatest moment, our going about divine ordinances, we have scarce any distinct or
deliberate thought of the end and rise of them. Sure I am, we must all confess this, that all
other businesses in our life are almost impertinent to the great end, the salvation of our
souls, in respect of these, in which God in a manner trysts with men, and comes to dwell with
them. These have the nearest and most immediate connection with God’s glory and our happiness;
and yet so wretched and unhappy are we, that we study and endeavour a kind of wisdom and diligence
in other petty things, which are to perish with the using, and have no great reach to make
our condition either better or worse; and yet we have no wisdom, nor consideration, or attention
to this great and momentous matter—the salvation of our souls. Is it not high time we were
shaken out of our empty, vain, and unreasonable custom, in going about such solemn duties,
when the wrath of God is already kindled, and his mighty arm is shaking terribly the earth,
and shaking us out of all our nests of quietness and consolation, which we did build in the
creature? God calls for a reasonable service: but I must say, the service of the most is an
unreasonable and brutish kind of work,—little or no consideration of what we are about, little
or no purpose or aim at any real soul advantage. Consider, my beloved, what you are doing,
undoing yourselves with ignorance of your own estate, and unacquaintedness with a better; whence
it comes, that you live contented in your misery, and have no lively stirrings after this blessed
remedy. That for which we meet together is to learn these two things, and always to be learning
them,—to know sensibly our own wretched misery and that blessed remedy which God hath provided.
It is the sum of the Scriptures, and we desire daily to lay it out before you, if at length
it may please the Lord to awake you out of your dream, and give you the light of his salvation.

You hear of a weakness of the flesh; but if you would understand it aright, it is not properly
and simply a weakness. That supposeth always some life, and some strength remaining. It is
not like an infirmity, that only indisposeth to wonted action in the wonted vigour; but it
is such a weakness, as the apostle elsewhere, (Eph. ii. 1,) calls deadness. It is such a weakness,
as may be called wickedness, yea, enmity to God, as it is here. Our souls are not diseased
properly, for that supposeth there is some remnant of spiritual life, but they are dead in
sins and trespasses. And so it is not infirmity but impossibility,—such a weakness as makes
life and salvation impossible by us, both utter unwillingness and extreme inability. These
two concur in all mankind, no strength to satisfy justice or obey the law, and no willingness
either. There is a general practical mistake in this. Men conceive that their natures are weak
to good, but few apprehend the wickedness and enmity that is in them to God and all goodness.
All will grant some defect and inability, and it is a general complaint. But to consider that
this inability is an impossibility, that this defect is a destruction of all spiritual good
in us,—the saving knowledge of this is given to few, and to those only whose eyes the Spirit
opens. There may be some strugglings and wrestlings of natural spirits to help themselves,
and upon the apprehension of their own weakness, to raise up themselves by serious consideration,
and earnest diligence, to some pitch of serving God, and to some hope of heaven. But I do suspect
that it proceeds in many from the want of this thorough and deep conviction of desperate wickedness.
Few really believe that testimony which God hath given of man,—he is not only weak, but wicked,
and not only so, but desperately wicked. And that is not all, the heart is deceitful, too,
and to complete the account, “deceitful above all things,” Jer. xvii. 9. A strange character
of man, given by him that formed the spirit of man within, and made it once upright, and so
knows best how far it hath departed from the first pattern. O who of us believes this in our
hearts! But that is the deceitfulness of our hearts to cover our desperate wickedness from
our own discerning, and flatter ourselves with self-pleasing thoughts. If once this testimony
were received, that the weakness of the flesh is a desperate wickedness, such a wretched and
accursed condition as there is no hope therein, as is incurable to any created power, and makes
us incurable, and certainly lost,—then, I say, the deceitfulness of the heart were in some
measure cured. Believe this desperate wickedness of your natures, and then you have deceived
the deceitfulness of your hearts to your own advantage; then you have known that which none
can know aright, till the searcher of the heart and reins reveal it unto them.

Thus man stands environed with impossibilities. His own weakness and wickedness, and the law’s
impossibility by reason of that,—these do shut up all access to the tree of life, and are instead
of a flaming sword to guard it. Our legs are cut off by sin, and the law cannot help us; nay,
our life is put out, and the law cannot quicken us. It declares our duty, but gives no ability;
it teacheth well, but it cannot make us learn, While we are in this posture, God himself steps
in to succour miserable and undone man; and here is the way,—he sends his Son in the likeness
of sinful flesh, and grace and truth come by him, which do remove those impediments that stopped
all access to life.

This is a high subject, but it concerns the lowest and most wretched amongst us; and that is
indeed the wonder of it, that there should be such a mystery, such a depth in this work of
redemption of poor sinners, so much business made, and such strange things done for repairing
our ruins. In the consideration of this we may borrow that meditation of the Psalmist’s, Psal.
viii. 4, “Lord, what is man, that thou shouldest thus magnify him; and make him not a little
lower than the angels, but far higher?” “For he took not on him the nature of angels,” Heb.
ii. 14, 16; but took part with the poor children of flesh and blood. This deserves a pause,—we
shall stay a little, and view it more fully in the steps and degrees that this mystery rises
and ascends up by. But, oh! for such an ascending frame of heart as this deserves. It is a
wonder it doth not draw us upward beyond our own element,—it is a subject of such admiration
in itself, and so much concernment to us.

Every word hath a weight in it, and a peculiar emphasis. There is a gradation that the mystery
goes upon till it come to the top. Every word hath a degree or stop in it, whereby it rises
high, and still higher. “God sent,”—that is very strange; but God sent “his own Son,”—is most
strange. But go on, and it is still stranger,—in the likeness of “flesh,” and that “sinful
flesh,” &c. In all which degrees you see God is descending and lower and lower, but the mystery
ascends and goes higher and higher; the lower God coming comes down, the wonder rises up. Still
the smaller and meaner that God appears in the flesh, the greater is the mystery of godliness,
God manifested in the flesh.

If you would rise up to the sensible and profitable understanding of this mystery, you must
first descend into the depths of your own natural wretchedness and misery, in which man was
lying when it pleased God to come so low to meet him and help him. I say you must first go
down that way in the consideration of it, and then you shall ascend to the use and knowledge
of this mystery of godliness.

God’s sending, hath some weight of wonder in it, at the very first apprehension of it. If you
did but know who he is, and what we are, a wonder it had been that he had suffered himself
to be sent unto by us, that any message, any correspondence should pass between heaven and
earth, after so foul a breach of peace and covenant by man on earth. Strange, that heaven was
not shut up from all intercourse with that accursed earth. If God had sent out an angel to
destroy man, as he sent to destroy Jerusalem, (1 Chron. xxi. 15,)—if he had sent out his armies
to kill those his enemies, who had renounced the yoke of his obedience, it had been justice,
Matth. xxi. 41; xxii. 7. If he had sent a cruel messenger against man, who had now acted so
horrid a rebellion, it had been no strange thing. As he did send an angel with a flaming sword
to encompass the tree of life, he might have enlarged that angel’s commission, to take vengeance
on man: and this is the wonder, he did not send after this manner. But what heart could this
enter into? Who could imagine such a thing as this? God to send, and to send for peace, to
his rebellious footstool! Man could not have looked for acceptance before the throne, if he
had presented and sent first up supplications and humble cries to heaven; and therefore finding
himself miserable, you see he is at his wits end, he is desperate, and gives it over, and so
flies away to hide himself, certainly expecting that the first message from heaven should be
to arm all the creatures against him to destroy him. But, O what a wonderful, yet blessed surprisal!
God himself comes down, and not for any such end as vengeance, though just, but to publish
and hold forth a covenant of reconciliation and peace, to convince man of sin, and to comfort
him with the glad tidings of a Redeemer, of one to be sent in the likeness of flesh. It is
the grandeur and majesty of kings and great men to let others come to them with their petitions;
and it is accounted a rare thing if they be accessible and affable: but that the Lord of lords
and King of kings, who sitteth in the circle of the heavens, and before whom all the inhabitants
of the earth are as poor grasshoppers, or crawling worms, about whose throne there are ten
thousand times ten thousand glorious spirits ministering unto him, as Daniel saw him, (chap.
vii. 9, 10,)—that such a one should not only admit such as we to come to him, and offer our
suits to his Highness, but himself first to come down unto Adam, and offer peace to him, and
then send his own Son! And what were we that he should make any motion about us, or make any
mission to us? Rom. v. 10. While we were yet “enemies,” that we were when he sent. O how hath
his love triumphed over his justice! But needed he fear our enmity, that he should seek peace?
Nowise; one look of his angry countenance would have looked us into nothing,—“Thou lookest
upon me, and I am not; one rebuke of his for iniquity, would have made our beauty consume as
the moth, far more the stroke of his hand had consumed us,” Psalm xxxix. 11. But that is the
wonder indeed,—while we were yet “enemies;” and weak too, neither able to help ourselves, nor
hurt him in the least, and so could do nothing to allure him, nothing to terrify him, nothing
to engage his love, nothing to make him fear; yet then he makes this motion, and mission to
us, “God sending,” &c.

God sending, and “sending his own Son,” that is yet a step higher. Had he sent an angel, it
had been wonderful, one of those ministering spirits about the throne being far more glorious
than man. But “God so loved the world, that he sent his Son.” Might he not have done it by
others? But he had a higher project; and verily, there is more mystery in the end and manner
of our redemption, than difficulty in the thing itself. No question, he might have enabled
the creature, by his almighty power, to have destroyed the works of the devil, and might have
delivered captive man some other way. He needed not, for any necessity lying upon him, to go
such a round as the Father to give the Son, and the Son to receive,—as God to send, and the
Son to be sent. Nay, he might have spared all pains, and without any messenger, immediately
pardoned man’s sin, and adopted him to the place of sons. Thus he had done the business, without
his Son’s, or any other’s travail and labour in blood and suffering. But this profound mystery,
in the manner of it, declares the highness and excellency of the end God proposed, and that
is the manifestation of his love; “Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed on
us,” 1 John iii. 1. And “in this was manifested the love of God toward us, that God sent his
only begotten Son into the world,” 1 John iv. 9. And truly for such a design and purpose, all
the world could not have contrived such a suitable and excellent mean as this. Nothing besides
this could have declared such love. There is no expression of love imaginable to this,—to give
his Son, and only begotten Son for us. It had been enough, out of mere compassion, to have
saved us, however it had been. But if he had given all, and done all besides this, he had not
so manifested the infinite fulness of love. There is no gift so suitable to the greatness and
magnificence of his majesty, as this,—one that thought it no robbery to be equal with himself.
Any gift had been infinitely above us, because from him; but this is not only infinitely above
us, but equal to himself, and fittest to declare himself.

But then, there is yet a higher rise of the mystery, or a lower descent of God; for it is all
one, God descending is the wonder ascending,—he sent his Son. Man’s admiration is already exhausted
in that. But if there were any thing behind, this which follows would consume it,—in the flesh.
If he had sent his own Son, might he not have sent him in an estate and condition suitable
to his glory, as it became the Prince and Heir of all things, him by whom all were created
and do subsist? Nay, but he is sent, and that in a state of humiliation and condescendency,
infinitely below his own dignity. That ever he was made a creature, that the Maker of all should
be sent in the form of any thing he had made, O what a disparagement! There is no such distance
between the highest prince on the throne, and the basest beggar on the dunghill, as between
the only begotten of the Father, who is the brightness of his glory, and the most glorious
angel that ever was made. And yet, it would be a wonder to the world, if a king should send
his son in the habit and state of a beggar, to call in the poor, and lame, and blind, to the
fellowship of his kingdom. It had been a great mystery, then, if God had been manifested in
the nature of angels, a great abasement of his majesty. But, O what must it be for God to be
manifested in the flesh, in the basest, naughtiest, and most corruptible of all the creatures,
even the very dregs of the creation, that have sunk down to the bottom! “All flesh is grass;”
and what more withering and fading, even the flower and perfection of it! Is. xl. 6. Dust it
is, and what baser? Gen. xviii. 27. And corruption it is, and what viler? 1 Cor. xv. 44. And
yet God sent his Son in the flesh. Is this a manifestation? Nay, rather, it is a hiding and
obscuration of his glory. It is the putting on of a dark veil to eclipse his brightness. Yet
manifested he is, as the intendment of the work he was about required,—manifested to reproach
and ignominy for our sin. This is one, and a great point of Christ’s humiliation,—that he took
not on him the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham, Heb. ii. 16.

But yet, to complete this mystery more, the Son descends a third step lower, that the mystery
may ascend so much the higher, in the likeness of flesh? Not so, but in the likeness of sinful
flesh. If he had appeared in the prime flower and perfection of flesh, in the very goodliness
of it, yet it had been a disparagement. If he had come down as glorious as he once went up,
and now “sits at the right hand of the majesty on high;” if he had been always in that resplendent
habit he put on in his transfiguration; that had been yet an abasement of his majesty. But,
to come in the likeness of sinful flesh, though not a sinner, yet in the likeness of a sinner,—so
like as that, touching his outward appearance, no eye could discern any difference, compassed
about with all those infirmities and necessities, which are the followers and attendants of
sin in us; “a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief;” a man who all his lifetime had intimate
acquaintance, and familiarity with grief. Grief and he were long acquaintance, and never parted
till death parted them. 14; and therefore he was a hissing and astonishment to many. He had
no form nor comeliness in him, and no beauty to make him desirable; and therefore his own friends
were ashamed of him, and hid their faces from him; “he was despised and rejected of men,” Isa.
liii. 2, 3. Thus you see, he comes in the most despicable and disgraceful form of flesh that
can be; and an abject among men, and as himself speaks in Psal. xxii. Now this, I say, is the
crowning of the great mystery of godliness, which, without all controversy, is the mystery
in all the world that hath in it most greatness and goodness combined together, that is the
subject of the highest admiration, and the fountain of the sweetest consolation that either
reason or religion can afford. The mysteries of the Trinity are so high, that if any dare to
reach to them, he doth but catch the lower fall;(171) it is as if a worm would attempt to touch
the sun in the firmament. But this mystery is God coming down to man, to be handled and seen
of men, because man could not rise up to God’s highness. It is God descending to our baseness,
and so coming near us to save us. It is not a confounding but a saving mystery. There is the
highest truth in it, for the understanding to contemplate and admire; and there is the greatest
good in it, for the will to choose and rest upon. It is contrived for wonder and delight to
men and angels. These three, which the angelic song runs upon, are the jewels of it,—“glory
to God, peace on earth, and good-will toward men.”

Sermon XII.

    Verse 3.—“For what the law could not do, in that it was weak
    though the flesh, God sending his own Son,” &c.

Of all the works of God towards man, certainly there is none hath so much wonder in it, as
the sending of his Son to become man; and so it requires the exactest attention in us. Let
us gather our spirits to consider of this mystery,—not to pry into the secrets of it curiously,
as if we had no more to do but to satisfy our understandings; but rather that we may see what
this concerns us, and what instruction or advantage we may have by it, that so it may ravish
our affections. I believe there is very palpable and gross ignorance in thousands of the very
thing itself. Many who profess Jesus Christ, know not his natures, or his glorious person,—do
not apprehend either his highness as God, or his lowness as man. But truly, the thing that
I do most admire, is, that those who pretend to more knowledge of this mystery, yet few of
them do enter upon any serious consideration about it,—for what use and purpose it is; though
it be the foundation of our salvation, the chief ground of our faith, and the great spring
of our consolation. Yet to improve the knowledge of it to any purpose of that kind, is a thing
so rare, even among true Christians, that it is little the subject of their meditation. I think,
indeed, the lively improvement of this mystery of godliness would be very effectual to make
us really what we are said to be, that is, Christians. There is something to this purpose,
1 John iv. 2, 3, 15, and v. 1. The confessing and knowing that Jesus Christ is come in the
flesh, and is the Son of God, before his taking on flesh, is made a character of a spiritual
man that dwelleth in God. Not that a bare external confession, or internal opinion and assent
to such a truth, is of so much value,—which yet is the height that many attain unto; but it
is such a soul acknowledgment, such an heart approbation of this mystery, as draws alongst
the admiration and affection after it, as fixeth the heart upon this object alone, for life
and salvation. The devils confessed and believed, but they trembled at it, Luke iv. 34, 41.
He was afraid of what he knew, but Peter confessed and loved what he knew; yea, he did cast
his soul upon that Lord whom he confessed. It is such an acknowledgment of Christ, as draweth
the soul, and unites it to him, by a serious and living embracement. Such a sight of Jesus
Christ, hath both truth and goodness in it, in the highest measure; and so doth not only constrain
the assent of the mind, but is a powerful attractive to the heart, to come to him, and live
in him. I pray you consider then what moment is in this truth, that you may indeed apply your
souls to the consideration of what is in Jesus Christ thus revealed, not simply to know it,
but for a further improvement of it, to seek life in him, that the stamp and impression of
this Saviour may be set so deeply on your souls, as that you may express this in a real confession
of him in your words and works, Tit. i. 16; Matt. vii. 21. This is indeed to know and confess
that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh, to fetch thence the ground of all our hope and consolation,
and to draw thence the most powerful motives to walking “even as he walked,” to improve it
for confidence in him, and obedience to him. The song of angels at his birth shows this,—“Glory
to God in the highest, peace on earth, and good will toward men.” His glory is manifested in
it in an eminent manner. The glory of his wisdom,—that found out a remedy. What a deep contrivance
was it! How infinitely beyond all creature inventions! Truly there are riches of wisdom, depths
of wisdom in it. I think it could never have entered the thought of men or angels;—all men
once to be drowned under a deluge of sin and misery, and made subjects to God’s righteous judgment,
and then to find out a way how to deliver and save so many! All the wisdom that shines in the
order and beauty of the world seems to be but a rude draught to this. Then, herein doth the
glory of his mercy and grace shine most brightly, that he transfers the punishment due to man’s
sin upon his own Son, that when no ransom could be found by man, he finds it out, how to satisfy
his own justice, and save us. Truly, this is the most shining jewel in the crown of God’s glory,—so
much mercy towards so miserable sinners, so much grace towards the rebellious. If he had pardoned
sin, without any satisfaction, what rich grace had it been! But truly, to provide the Lamb
and sacrifice himself, to find out the ransom, and to exact it of his own Son, in our name,
is a testimony of mercy and grace far beyond that. But then, his justice is very conspicuous
in this work. And indeed these two do illustrate one another; the justice of God, in taking
and exacting the punishment of sin upon his own well-beloved Son, doth most eminently heighten
the mercy and grace of God towards us; and his grace and mercy in passing by us, doth most
marvellously illustrate the righteousness of God, in making his own Son a curse for us. What
testimony can be given in the world, of God’s displeasure at sin, of his righteousness in punishing
sin, like this! There was no such testimony of love to sinners and no such demonstration of
hatred at sin imaginable. That he did not punish sin in us, but transfer it over on his most
beloved Son, O what love and grace! And that he did punish his own Son, when standing in the
place of sinners, O what righteousness and justice! This is that glorious mystery, the conjunction
of these two resplendent jewels, justice and mercy, of love and displeasure, in one chain of
Christ’s incarnation, into which the angels desire to look, 1 Pet. i. 12. And truly they do
wonder at it, and praise from wonder. This is it, that the praises of men and angels shall
roll about eternally. David, (Ps. ciii. 20,) foreseeing this day, foretold that angels should
praise him, and now it is fulfilled, when all these glorious companies of holy, powerful spirits,
welcome the Son of God into the world, by that heavenly harmony of praise. Luke ii. 14.

What lumpishness and earthliness is in us, that we do not rise up above, to this melody in
our spirits, to join with angels in this song, we, I say, whom it most concerns! The angels
wonder, and praise and wonder at this, because the glory of God shines so brightly in it, as
if there were many suns in one firmament, as the light of seven days in one. These three especially,—wisdom,
mercy and grace, justice and righteousness, every one of them looks like the sun in its strength,
carried about in this orb of the redemption of man, to the ravishing of the hearts of all the
honourable and glorious companies above, and making them cheerfully and willingly to contribute
all their service to this work, to be ministering spirits to wait on the heirs of salvation!

Now, when the glory of the highest raiseth up such a melodious song above, among angels, O
what should both the glory of the highest God, and the highest good of man do to us! When the
greatest glory of God, and the chiefest advantage of man are linked together in this chain,
what should we do but admire and adore, adore and admire, and, while we are in this earth,
send up our consent to that harmony in heaven!

In relation to our good, much might be said, but we shall briefly show unto you, that it is
the greatest confirmation of our faith, and the strongest motive to humility, that can be afforded.
Now, if we could be composed thus unto confidence and reverence, to glorify him by believing
and to abase ourselves, to believe in him, and walk humbly with him, upon the meditation of
Christ’s coming in the flesh, this would make us true Christians indeed.

There is nothing, I know more powerful to persuade us of the reality of God’s invitations and
promises to us than this. We are still seeking signs and tokens of God’s love, something to
warrant us to come to God in Christ, and to persuade us that we shall be welcome, and many
Christians puddle themselves in the mire of their own darkness and discouragement, because
they cannot find any thing in themselves that can give but the least probable conjecture, that
he will admit and welcome them to come to him, or that such precious promises, and sweet invitations,
can belong to such sinners as they conceive themselves to be. Truly, my beloved, I think, while
we exercise ourselves thus, we are seeking the sun with a candle, making that which is in itself
as bright as the light to be more dark. The evidence of God’s reality in offering life to you
in Christ, and his willingness to receive you is not without the compass of his invitation,
and yet you seek it where it is least to be found, that is, in yourselves. But indeed, his
invitations in the gospel carry the evidence in their bosom,—that which is above all other
signs and evidences that he did even send his own Son in the flesh for this purpose. Is there
any thing besides this, either greater or clearer? I think we are like those who, when they
had seen many signs and wonders done by Christ, which did bear testimony to all the world of
his divine nature, yet they would not be satisfied, but sought out another sign, tempting him,
Matt. xvi. 1. And truly, he might return this answer to us, “O wicked and adulterous generation,
that seeketh after a sign, there shall no sign be given to thee, but the sign of the prophet
Jonas.” The greatest testimony that can be imagined, is given already,—that the Father should
send his only begotten and well beloved Son into the state of a servant for man. If this do
not satisfy, I know not what will. I see not how any work of his Spirit in us, can make so
much evidence of his reality and faithfulness in the gospel, and of his willingness to welcome
sinners. All the works of the creation, all the works of grace, are nothing to this, to manifest
his love to men; and therefore there is a singular note upon it, “God so loved the world, that
he gave his Son,” John iii. 16. And in this was his love manifested, that he sent his Son,
1 John iv. 9. If men and angels had set themselves to devise and find out a pledge or confirmation
of the love of God, they would have fallen upon some revelation unto, or some operation upon
their spirits. But, alas, this is infinitely above that. His own express image, and the brightness
of his glory, is come down to hear witness of his love, nay, he who is equal with himself in
glory, is given as a gift to men; and is not he infinitely more than created gifts or graces,
who is the very spring and fountain of them all? “God so loved the world,” that truly he gave
no such gift besides, to testify such a love. Therefore, when all that he hath done in this
kind cannot satisfy thy scrupulous mind, but thou wilt still go on, to seek more confirmation
of his readiness to receive thee, I think it is a tempting of the Holy One, which may draw
such an answer from him, O wicked and adulterous person, there shall no sign be given thee,
but that which is darker than the former, that which thou shalt understand less. Thou mayest
get what thou seekest, perhaps some more satisfaction in thy own condition, but it shall plunge
thee more in the issue. Thou shalt always be unsettled, and “unconstant as water, thou shalt
not excel.” I confess indeed, if we speak of the manifestation of one’s particular interest
in these promises, and of an evidence of the love of God to thee, in particular, then there
must needs be something wrought by the Holy Spirit on thy soul, to draw down the general testimony
of God’s love to mankind into a particular application to thyself. But that I do not speak
of now, because that is the sealing of the Spirit after believing, and because you are always
unsettled in the first and main point, of flying unto the Son, and waiting on him for life,
therefore have you so much inevidence and weakness in that which follows. That which I now
speak of is, that if this were cordially believed, and seriously considered, that God sent
his own Son in the flesh, to save sinners, you could not readily have any doubt, but that your
coming to him for salvation would be welcome. You could not say, that such precious invitations
could not belong to sinners, or that he could not love the like of you. Truly, I think, if
the general were laid to heart, that God hath so loved mankind, that he gave such a gift unto
them, there is none could make any more question of his reality, when that gift is tendered
to any in particular. Nay, I think it is the inconsideration of this general evidence and manifestation
of love to the world, that makes you so perplexed in particulars. Could you have so much difficulty
to believe his love to you, if you indeed believe that he hath loved the world, that is, so
many thousands like you? Is there so much distance, I pray you, between you and another, as
between him and all? If, then, he loves so many miserable sinners, is there any impossibility
in it, but he may love you? For what is in them that might conciliate his love? I tell you
why I think the right apprehension of the general truths of the gospel would be able, like
the sun in its strength, to scatter all the clouds and mists of our particular interest-debates,
because I find, that those very grounds, upon which you call in question your own particular
interest, if you did consider them, you would find they go a further length, to conclude against
all others, and either they have no strength in your case, or they will be of equal force to
batter down the confidence of all the saints, and the certainty of all the promises. What is
it that troubles you, but that you are sinners, and such sinners, so vile and loathsome? From
whence you do conclude, not only that you have no present assurance of his love, but that he
cannot love such a one as you are. Now, I say, if this hold good, in reference to you, take
heed that you condemn not yourselves in that which you approve,—that is, that you do not dispute
against the interest of all the saints, who were such as you are, and the tenth of those fundamental
positions of the gospel. “God so loved the world,” &c. And so you do not only wrong yourselves,
but all others, and not only so, but you offer the greatest indignity to him that out of love
sent his Son, and to him who, out of love, came and laid down his life.  O consider how you
indignify(172) and set at nought that great manifestation of God’s love, “God manifested in
the flesh,” how you despise his love pledge to sinners, a greater than which he could not give
you, because as great as himself! O that you could see the consequence of your anxious and
perplexing doubts,—that they do not only an injury to your own souls, but that they are of
a more bloody nature! If they held good, they would cut off the life and salvation of all believers,
and, which is worse, they would, by an unavoidable consequence, conclude an antichristian point,
that Christ is not come in the flesh. I beseech you, unbowel your evils, that you may abhor them.

This may strengthen our faith, and minister much consolation, in another consideration too,
that which is laid down, Heb. ii. 17, and iv. 15, that he was partaker of our nature and in
all things like unto his brethren, that so he might be a merciful High Priest, able to succour
us and touched with the feeling of our infirmities. What strong consolation may be sucked out
of these breasts! When it was impossible that man could rise up to God, because of his infinite
highness and holiness, behold, God hath come down to man, in his lowness and baseness. He hath
sent down this ladder from heaven to the earth, that poor wretched sinners may ascend upon
it. It is come down as low as our infirm, weak, and frail nature, that we may have easy coming
up to it, and going up upon it to heaven. Therefore his flesh is called a “new and living way,”
because a poor sinner may be assured of welcome and acceptation with one of his own kind, his
brother,—(he was not ashamed to call us brethren,)—flesh of his flesh, and bone of his bone.
This may make boldness of access, that we have not God to speak to, or come to immediately,
as he is clothed with glory and majesty, and as the Jews heard him on mount Sinai, and desired
a mediator between him and them, but that great prophet promised to them hath come, and we
have him between us and God,—as low as we, that we may speak to him, “riding upon an ass,”
a low ass, that every one may whisper their desires in his ear—and yet as high as God, that
he may speak to God, and have power with him.  Truly, this is a sweet trysting place to meet
God in, that no sinner may have any fear to come to it, to this treaty of peace and reconciliation.
How may it persuade us of that great privilege that we may “become the sons of God,” when the
Son of God is become the Son of man, John i. 11, 12. Truly, though it be hard to be believed,
that such as we should become the sons of the great King, yet it is nothing so strange as this,
that the eternal and only begotten Son of the great God, should become the Son of wretched
man. That highness will be easily believed, if we consider this lowness.  It will not be so
hard to persuade a soul that there is a way of union and reconciliation to God, of being yet
at peace with him, if this be pondered,—that God hath married his own nature with ours,—in
one person, to be a pledge of that union and peace. And then how much quickening and comfort
may it yield us, that he was not only a man, but a miserable man, and that not through any
necessity, but only the necessity of love and compassion. He had enough of mercy to save us
as God, he had enough of love and compassion as man, but he would take on misery too in his
own person, that he might be experimentally merciful to us. Certainly, the experience of misery
and infirmity must superadd some tenderness to the heart of our High Priest. But though it
did not help him to be more pitiful, yet it was done for us, to help us to have more confidence
in him, and boldness to come unto him. What an encouragement is it for a poor man to come unto
the once poor Jesus Christ, who “had not where to lay his head?”  He knows the evil of poverty,
and he chose to know it, that he might have compassion on thee. With what boldness may poor
afflicted and despised believers come to him! Why?  Because himself had experience of all that,
and he was familiarly acquainted with grief and sorrow, therefore he can sympathize best with
thee. Let us speak even of the sinful infirmities thou art subject to. That there might be
a suitableness in him to help thee, he came as nigh as might be,—he was willing to be tempted
to sin, and so he knows the power that temptations must have over weak and frail natures, but
sin he could not, for that had been evil for us. Let this, then, give us boldness to come to him.

I would desire to persuade you to humility from this, according to the lesson Christ gives
us, Matt. xi. 29, “Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly.” And the apostle makes singular use
of this mystery of the abasement of the Majesty, to abate from our high esteem of ourselves,
Phil. ii. 3-6. O should not the same mind be in us that was in Christ! God abased, man exalted,—how
unsuitable are these, think you! God lowly in condition and disposition, and man, though base
in condition, yet high in his deposition and in his own estimation! What more mysterious than
God humbled? And what more monstrous than man proud?  Truly, pride is the most deformed thing
in a man, but in a Christian it is monstrous and prodigious. If he did humble himself out of
charity and love, who was so high and glorious, how should we humble ourselves out of necessity,
who are so low and base?  And out of charity and love too, to be conformed and like unto him!
Nature may persuade the one, but Christianity teacheth the other,—to be lowly in mind, and
esteem every one better than ourselves. To be meek, patient, long-suffering, reason may persuade
it, upon the consideration of our own baseness, emptiness, frailty, and nothingness. But this
lesson is taught in Christ’s school, not from that motive only,—the force of necessity, but
from a higher motive,—the constraint of love to Jesus Christ,—“learn of me.” Suppose there
were no necessity of reason in it, yet affection might be a stronger necessity to persuade
conformity to him, and following his example, who became so low, and humbled himself to the
death even for us.

Sermon XIII.

    Verse 3.—“And for sin condemned sin in the flesh.”

The great and wonderful actions of great and excellent persons must needs have some great ends
answerable to them. Wisdom will teach them not to do strange things, but for some rare purposes,
for it were a folly and madness to do great things to compass some small and petty end, as
unsuitable as that a mountain should travail to bring forth a mouse. Truly we must conceive,
that it must needs be some honourable and high business, that brought down so high and honourable
a person from heaven as the Son of God. It must be something proportioned to his majesty and
his wisdom. And indeed so it is. There is a great capital enemy against God in the world, that
is sin. This arch-rebel hath drawn man from his subordination to God, and sown a perpetual
discord and enmity between them. This hath conquered all mankind, and among the rest, even
the elect and chosen of God, those whom God had in his eternal counsel predestinated to life
and salvation. Sin brings all into bondage, and exerciseth the most perfect tyranny over them
that can be imagined, makes men to serve all its imperious lusts, and then all the wages is
death,—it binds them over to judgment. Now this sedition and rebellion being arisen in the
world, and one of the most noble creatures carried away in this revolt, from allegiance to
the divine majesty, the most holy and wise counsel of heaven concludes to send the King’s Son,
to compesce(173) this rebellion, to reduce men again unto obedience, and destroy that arch
traitor, sin, which his nature most abhors. And for this end the Son of the great King, Jesus
Christ, came down into the world, to deliver captive man, and to condemn conquering sin. There
is no object that God hath so pure and perfect displeasure at as sin. Therefore he sent to
condemn that which he hates most (and perfectly he hates it)—to condemn sin. And this is expressed
as the errand of his coming, 1 John iii. 5, 8, to “destroy the works of the devil.” All his
wicked and hellish plots and contrivances against man, all that poison of enmity and sin, that
out of envy and malice he spued out upon man, and instilled into his nature, all those works
of that prince of darkness, in enticing man from obedience to rebellion, and tyrannizing over
him since, by the imperious laws of his own lusts, in a word, all that work that was contrived
in hell, to bring poor man down to that same misery with devils; all that Christ, the only
begotten Son of the great King, came (for this noble business) to destroy it,—that tower which
Satan was building up against heaven, and had laid the foundation of it as low as hell, this
was Christ’s business down among men, to destroy that Babylon, that tower of darkness and confusion,
and to build up a tower of light and life, to which tower sinners might come, and be safe,
and by which they might really ascend into heaven. Some do by these words “for sin,” understand
the occasion and reason of Christ’s coming, that it was, because sin had conquered the world,
and subjected man to condemnation, therefore, Jesus Christ came into the world to conquer sin
and condemn it, that we might be free from condemnation by sin. And this was the special cause
of his taking on flesh. If sin had not entered into the world, Christ had not come into it,
and if sin had not erected a throne in man’s flesh, Christ had not taken on flesh,—he had not
come in the likeness of sinful flesh. So that this may administer unto us abundant consolation.
If this was the very cause of his coming, that which drew him down from that delightful and
blessed bosom of the Father, then he will certainly do that which he came for. He cannot fail
of his purpose, he cannot miss his end: he must condemn sin, and save sinners. And truly this
is wonderful love, that he took sin only for his party, and came only for sin, or against sin,
and not against poor sinners. He had no commission of the Father but this, as himself declares,
John iii. But this we are naturally inclined unto,—to think hard of God, and can hardly be
persuaded of his love, when once we are persuaded of our enmity. Indeed the most part of the
world fancy a persuasion of God’s love, and have not many jealousies of it, because they know
not their own enmity against God. But let a man see himself indeed God’s enemy, and it is very
hard to make him believe any other thing of God, but that he carries a hostile mind against
him. And therefore Christ, to take off this, persuades and assures us, that neither the Father
nor he had any design upon poor sinners, nor any ambushment against them; but mainly, if not
only, this was his purpose in sending, and Christ’s in coming,—not against man, but against
sin; not to condemn sinners, but to condemn sin, and save sinners. O blessed and unparalleled
love, that made such a real distinction between sin and sinners, who were so really one! Shall
not we be content to have that woful and accursed union with sin dissolved? Shall not we be
willing to let sin be condemned in us, and to have our own souls saved? I beseech you, beloved
in the Lord, do not think to maintain always Christ’s enemy, that great traitor against which
he came from heaven. Wonder that he doth not prosecute both as enemies; but if he will destroy
the one and save the other, O let it be destroyed, not you; and so much the more, for that
it will destroy you! Look to him, so iniquity shall not be your ruin, but he shall be the ruin
of iniquity. But if you will not admit of such a division between you and your sins, take heed
that you be not eternally undivided, that you have not one common lot for ever, that is, condemnation.
Many would be saved, but they would be saved with sin too. Alas! that will condemn thee. As
for sin, he hath proclaimed irreconcilable enmity against it, he hath no quarter to give it,
he will never come in terms of composition with it, and all because it is his mortal enemy.
Therefore let sin be condemned, that thou mayest be saved. It cannot be saved with thee, but
thou mayest be condemned with it.

The words, “for sin,” may be taken in another sense as fitly, “a sacrifice for sin,” so that
the meaning is,—Jesus Christ came to condemn and overthrow sin in its plea against us by a
sacrifice for sin, that is, by offering up his own body or flesh. And thus you have the way
and means how Christ conquered sin, and accomplished the business he was sent for. It was by
offering a sacrifice for sin, to expiate wrath, and so satisfy justice. “The sting” and strength
“of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law,” as the apostle speaks it, 1 Cor. xv.
55. We had two great enemies against us, two great tyrants over us,—sin and death. Death had
passed upon all mankind. Not only the miseries of this life and temporal death had subjected
all men, but the fear of an eternal death, of an everlasting separation from the blessed face
of God, might have seized upon all, and subjected them to bondage, Heb. ii. 15. But the strength
and sting of that is sin; it is sin that arms death and hell against us. Take away sin, and
you take away the sting, the strength of death,—it hath no force or power to hurt man. But
death being the wages due for sin, (Rom. vi. 23.) all the certainty and efficacy in the wages
flows from this work of darkness,—sin. But now “the strength of sin is the law.” This puts
a poisonable and destructive virtue in the sting of sin, for it is the sentence of God’s law,
and the justice and righteousness of God, that hath made so inseparable a connection between
sin and death. This gives sin a destroying and killing virtue. Justice arms it with power and
authority to condemn man, so that there can be no freedom, no releasement from that condemnation,
no eschewing that fatal sting of death, unless the sentence of God’s law, which hath pronounced
“thou shalt die,” be repealed, and the justice of God be satisfied by a ransom. And this being
done, the strength of sin is quite gone, and so the sting of death removed.

Now, this had been impossible for man to do. These parties were too strong for any created
power. The strength of sin to condemn may be called some way infinite, because it flows from
the unchangeable law of the infinite justice of God. Now, what power could encounter that strength,
except that which hath infinite strength too? Therefore, it behoved the Son of God to come
for this business; to condemn sin and save the sinner. And being come, he yokes first with
the very strength of sin, for he knew where its strength did lie, and so did encounter first
of all with that,—even the justice of his Father, the hand-writing of ordinances that was against
us; for if once he can set them aside, as either vanquished or satisfied, he hath little else
to do. Now, he doth not take a violent way in this either. He doth it not with the strong hand,
but deals wisely, and (to speak so with reverence) cunningly in it; he came under the law,
that he might redeem them who were under the law, Gal. iv. 4. Force will not do it, the law
cannot be violated, justice cannot be compelled to forego its right. Therefore our Lord Jesus
chooseth, as it were, to compound with the law, to submit unto it: He was “made under the law,”
he who was above the law, being lawgiver in mount Sinai, Acts vii. 38; Gal. iii. 19. He cometh
under the bond and tie of it, to fulfil it: “I came not to destroy the law but to fulfil it,”
Matt. v. 17. He would not offer violence to the law, to deliver sinners contrary to the commination
of it, or without satisfaction given unto it, for that would reflect upon the wisdom and righteousness
of the Father who gave the law. But he doth it better in an amicable way,—by submission and
obedience to all its demands. Whatsoever it craved of the sinner, he fulfils that debt. He
satisfies the bond in his own person by suffering, and fulfils all the commandments by obedience.
And thus, by subjection to the law, he gets power over the law, because his subjection takes
away all its claim and right over us. Therefore it is said, that he blotted out the hand-writing
of ordinances, which was against us, by nailing it to his cross; and so took it out of the
way, Col. ii. 14. Having fulfilled the bond, he cancelled it, and so it stands in no force
either against him or us. Thus, the strength of sin, which is the law, is removed; and by this
means, sin is condemned in the flesh. By the suffering of his flesh, it is fallen from all
its plea against sinners; for, that upon which it did hang, viz. the sentence of the law, is
taken out of the way, so that it hath no apparent ground to fasten any accusation upon a poor
sinner that flies into Jesus Christ, and no ground at all to condemn him,—it is wholly disabled
in that point. For, as the Philistines found where Samson’s strength lay, and cut his hair,
so Christ hath in his wisdom found where the strength of sin’s plea against man lay, and hath
cut off the hair of it, that is, the handwriting of ordinances which was against us.

This is that which hath been shadowed out from the beginning of the world by the types of sacrifices
and ceremonies. All those offerings of beasts, of fowls, and such like, under the law, held
forth this one sacrifice, that was offered in the fulness of time to be a propitiation for
the sins of the world. And something of this was used among the Gentiles before Christ’s coming,
certainly by tradition from the fathers, who have looked afar off to this day, when this sweet-smelling
sacrifice should be offered up to appease Heaven. And it is not without a special providence,
and worthy the remarking, that since the plenary and substantial One was offered, the custom
of sacrificing hath ceased throughout the world. God, as it were, proclaiming to all men, by
this cessation of sacrifices, as well as silence of oracles, that the true atonement and propitiation
is come already, and the true Prophet is come from heaven, to reveal God’s mind unto the world.
There were many ceremonies in sacrificing observed, to hold out unto us the perfection of our
atonement and propitiation. They laid their hands on the beast, who brought it, to signify
the imputation of our sins to Christ, that he who knew no sin was made sin for us, that we
might be made the righteousness of God in him. And truly, it is worth the observation, that
even those sacrifices for sin were called sin; and so the word is used promiscuously in Leviticus,
to point out unto us, that Jesus Christ should make his soul sin, (Isa. liii. 10,) that is,
a sacrifice for sin, and be made sin for us, that is, a sacrifice for sin. When the blood was
poured out (because without shedding of blood there was no reconciliation, Heb. ix. 22,) the
priest sprinkled it seven times before the Lord, to shadow out the perfection of that expiation
for our sins, in the virtue and perpetuity thereof (Heb. ix. 26) that he should appear to put
away sin by the sacrifice of himself,—to put it away, as if it had never been, by taking it
on him and bearing it. And then the high priest was to bring in of the blood into the holy
place and within the vail, and sprinkle the mercy seat, to show unto us, that the merit and
efficacy of Christ’s blood should enter into the highest heavens to appease the wrath of God.
12. And truly this is that sacrifice, which being offered without spot to God, pacifies all,
ver. 14. Sin hath a cry, it crieth aloud for vengeance. This blood silenceth it, and composeth
all to favour and mercy. It hath so sweet and fragrant a smell in God’s account, that it fills
heaven with the perfume of it. He is that true scape goat, who, notwithstanding that he did
hear all the sins of his people, yet he did escape alive. Albeit he behoved to make his soul
a sacrifice for sin, and so die for it, yet by this means he hath condemned sin, by being condemned
for sin. By this means he hath overcome death and the grave, by coming under the power of death,
and so is now alive for ever, to improve his victory for our salvation. And by taking on our
sins he hath fully abolished the power and plea of them, as the goat that was sent to the wilderness
out of all men’s sight was not to be seen again. Truly, this is the way how our sins are buried
in the grave of oblivion and removed as a cloud, and cast into the depths of the sea, and sent
away as far as the east is from the west that they may never come into judgment against us
to condemn us because Christ, by appeasing wrath and satisfying justice by the sacrifice of
himself, hath overthrown them in judgment, and buried them in the grave with his own body.

You see then my beloved, a solid ground of consolation against all our fears and sorrows;—an
answer to all the accusations of our sins. Here is one for all, one above all. You would have
particular answers to satisfy your particular doubts. You are always seeking some satisfaction
to your consciences besides this, but believe it all that can be said, besides this atonement
and propitiation, is of no more virtue to purge your consciences, or satisfy your perplexed
souls, than those repeated sacrifices of old were. Whatsoever you can pitch upon besides this,
it is insufficient, and therefore you find a necessity of seeking some other grace or qualification
to appease your consciences, even as they had need to multiply sacrifices. But now since this
perfect propitiation is offered up for our sins should not all these vain expiations of your
works cease? Truly, there is nothing can pacify heaven but this, and nothing can appease thy
conscience on earth but this too. If you find any accusation against you consider Christ hath,
by a sacrifice for sin, condemned sin in his own flesh. The marks of the spear, of the nails,
of the buffetings of his flesh,—these are the tokens and pledges, that he encountered with
the wrath due to your sins, and so hath cut off all the right that sin hath over you. If thou
canst unfeignedly in the Lord’s sight say, that it is thy soul’s desire to be delivered from
sin as well as wrath, thou wouldst gladly fly from condemnation, then come to him who hath
condemned sin, by suffering the condemnation of sin, that he might save those who desire to
fly from it to him.

Sermon XIV.

    Verse 4.—“That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in
    us.”

God having a great design to declare unto the world both his justice and mercy towards men,
he found out this mean most suitable and proportioned unto it, which is here spoken of in the
third verse,—to send his own Son to bear the punishment of sin, that the righteousness of the
law might be freely and graciously fulfilled in sinners. And, indeed, it was not imaginable
by us, how he could declare both in the salvation of sinners. He could not have found out a
way to declare his righteousness and holiness, which would not have obscured his mercy and
grace, nor a way to manifest his grace and mercy which would not have reflected upon his holiness
and justice, according to the letter of the law that was given out as the rule of life. He
that doth them shall live in them, and cursed is every one that doeth them not, &c. What could
we expect, if this be fulfilled, as it would appear God’s truth and holiness require? Then
we are gone,—no place for mercy, if this be not fulfilled, that the mercy may be showed in
pardoning sin. Then the truth and faithfulness of God seem to be impaired. This is the strait
that all sinners would have been into, if God had not found such an enlargement as this—how
to show mercy without wronging justice, and how to save sinners without impairing his faithfulness.
Truly, we may wonder, what was it that could straiten his majesty so, that he must send his
own Son, so beloved of him, and bruise him, and hide his face from him, yea, and torment him,
and not let the cup pass from him for any entreaties. Might he not more easily have never added
such a commination to the law,—“thou shalt die,” or more easily relaxed and repealed that sentence,
and passed by the sinner without any more, than exacted so heavy a punishment from one that
was innocent? Was it the satisfaction of his justice that straitened him, and put a necessity
of this upon him? But truly it seems it had been no more contrary to righteousness to have
passed over the sinner, without satisfaction, than to require and take it of one who was not
really guilty. The truth is, it was not simply the indispensable necessity of satisfying justice,
that put him upon such a hard and unpleasant work, as the bruising of his own Son, for no doubt,
he might have as well dispensed with all satisfaction, as with the personal satisfaction of
the sinner. But here the strait lay, and here was the urgency of the case, he had a purpose
to declare his justice, and therefore a satisfaction must be had not simply to satisfy righteousness,
but rather to declare his righteousness, Rom. iii. 25. Now, indeed, to make these two shine
together in one work of the salvation of sinners, all the world could not have found out the
like of this—to dispense with personal satisfaction in the sinner, which the rigour of the
law required, and so to admit a sweet moderation and relaxation, that the riches of his grace
and mercy might be manifested, and yet withal, to exact the same punishment of another willingly
coming in the sinner’s place, to the end that all sinners may behold his righteousness and
justice. And so this work of the redemption of sinners hath these names of God published by
himself, (Exod. xxxiv. 6, 7.) to Moses, engraven deeply upon it, mercy and goodness spelled
out at length in it,—for love was the rise of all, and love did run alongst in all, yet so,
as there is room to speak out his holiness, and righteousness, and justice, not so much to
affright sinners, as to make his mercy the more amiable and wonderful.

I know not a more pressing ground of strong consolation, nor a firmer bulwark of our confidence
and salvation, than this conjunction of mercy and justice in the business. There might have
been always a secret hink(174) of jealousy and suspicion in our minds, when God publisheth
mercy and forgiveness to us freely. O how shall the law be satisfied, and the importunity of
justice and faithfulness, that hath pronounced a sentence of death upon us, answered! Shall
not the righteous law be a loser this way, if I be saved, and it not satisfied by obedience
or suffering! How hard would it be to persuade a soul of free pardon, that sees such a severe
sentence standing against it! But now there is no place for doubting. All is contrived for
the encouragement and happiness of poor sinners, that we may come to him with full persuasion
of his readiness and inclinableness to pardon, since Jesus Christ hath taken the law and justice
of God off our head, and us off their hand, and since he hath reckoned with them, for what
is due by us and paid it without us,—then we have a clear way, and ready access to pardon,
and to believe his readiness to pardon. And this is it which is holden out here,—Christ condemning
sin in the flesh, or punishing sin in his own flesh, giving a visible and sensible representation
of the justice and righteousness of God in punishing sin, and that in his own flesh, offering
up himself as the condemned sinner, and hanging up to the view of all the world, as an evident
testimony of the justice and righteousness of God against sin, and by this means cutting off
the very strength of sin,—the law, by fulfilling it. In Christ’s sufferings you may behold,
as in a clear mirror, the hatred and displeasure of God against sin, the righteousness of God
in punishing sin. Him hath God set forth to the world to be a propitiation, to declare the
righteousness of God. Rom. iii. 24, 25. In this crucified Lord, you may behold the sensible
image and the most lively demonstration of holiness and righteousness. Christ’s flesh bare
the marks of both,—holiness in hating sin, righteousness in punishing it, and both in his beloved
and only begotten Son’s person,—in his flesh, and all for this purpose, that the law might
be no loser by our salvation, “that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us,” &c.

This is that which Christ says, “I came not to destroy the law, but to fulfil it,” Matt. v.
17, and which Paul seconds, “Is the law then made void by faith? God forbid, it is rather established,”
Rom. iii. 31. The law and justice come better to their own, by our Cautioner than by us. There
is no such way conceivable, to satisfy them fully, as this, whether you look to the commandment
or the curse.

The commandment never got such satisfaction in any person, as in Christ’s, he hath fulfilled
it by obedience. “It becometh us” saith he “to fulfil all righteousness,” (Matt. iii. 15.)
both moral and ceremonial, so that there was no guile found in his mouth,—he knew no sin, he
was holy and harmless. His Father’s will was his soul’s delight,—“I delight to do thy will,”
Ps. xl. 8. It was more to him than his necessary food, his meat and drink. There was so absolute
a correspondency between his will and God’s will, and between his way and his will, that it
was not possible that any difference should fall between them. His obedience had more good
in it (so to speak) than Adam’s disobedience had evil in it, Rom. v. 18, 19. Adam’s disobedience
was but the sin of a finite creature, but Christ’s obedience was the work of an infinite person.
I think there was more real worth in Christ’s obedience to the commands, than in all the united
service and obedience of men and angels. All the love, delight, fear, and obedience flowing
from these—take them in one bundle, as they will be extended and multiplied to all eternity,
there is something in Christ’s that elevates it above all, and puts a higher price upon it.
The transcendent dignity of his person,—his own Son “made under the law,” (Gal. iv. 4.)—that
is more worth than if all men and angels had been made under it. It had been no humiliation,
but rather the exaltation of an angel, to be obedient to God. That subordination to a law,
is the highest top of the creature’s advancement. But he was such a person, as his obedience
was a humbling himself. “He humbled himself, and became obedient, even to the death,” Phil.
ii. 8, and though he was the Son of God yet he stooped to learn obedience, Heb. v. 8. Now indeed
the commandment comes to it better,(175) by this means, to have such a glorious person under
it, than if it had poor naughty us under it, and that is fulfilled by him, when otherwise it
would never have been done. I suppose that justice had exacted the punishment of us. As we
could never have ended suffering to all eternity, so we would never have begun new obedience
to the command to all eternity. Thus, except Christ had taken it off us, and us off its hand,
it would never have been fulfilled, since it was first broken. Next, the curse of the law could
not get fuller satisfaction than in Christ. I suppose it had fallen upon the sinner. There
is not so much worth in the creatures extremest sufferings, as to compensate the infinite wrongs
done to the holiness and righteousness of God. Therefore, what was wanting in the intrinsic
value of the creature’s suffering, behoved to be made up in the infinite extent of it, and
eternal continuance of it upon the creature. Thus, there could never be a determined time assigned,
in which the curse was fulfilled, and in which justice could say,—hold, I have enough. It is
as if a man were owing an infinite debt, and he could get nothing to defray it but poor petty
sums, which being all conjoined, cannot amount to any proportion of it. Therefore, since he
cannot get one sum in value equal to it, he must be eternally paying it in smalls, according
to his capacity. And so, because the utmost farthing cannot be won at, he can never be released
out of prison. But our Lord Jesus hath satisfied it to the full. He was a more substantial
debtor, and because of the infinite dignity of his person, there was an intrinsic value upon
his sufferings, proportioned unto the infiniteness of man’s sin, so that he could pay all the
debt in a short time which a sinner could but have done to all eternity. Now, you know, any
man would rather choose such a cautioner, that can solidly satisfy him in gross, and pay all
the sum at once, than such a principal, that because of his inability, cannot amount, to any
considerable satisfaction in many years. And even so it is with the law and justice of God.
They hold themselves better contented in Christ than in us, in his being “made a curse, than
the falling of the curse on us,” Gal. iii. 13. And therefore God testifies it to poor sinners,
“Deliver them, I have found a ransom,” Job xxxiii. 24,—and that is the ransom which Christ
gave,—“his life—for many,”  Matt. xx. 28.

You see then, how this conclusion follows, “that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled
in us,” he having fulfilled it, and satisfied it so fully, both by obedience to the commandment,
and submission to the curse. It is all one in God’s account, as if we had done it, because
Christ was surety in our stead, and a common person representing us, and therefore his paying
of the debt acquits us at the hand of justice, and whatsoever he did to fulfil all righteousness,
that is accounted ours, because we were represented in him, and judicially one with him. And
therefore, we were condemned when he was condemned, we were dead when he died,—and so the righteousness
of the law, in exacting a due punishment for sin, was fulfilled for us in him, and it is all
one as if it had been personally in us. And this is laid down as the foundation of that blessed
embassy or message of reconciliation to sinners, as that upon which God is in Christ reconciling
and beseeching us to be reconciled, (2 Cor. v. 19-21.)—Him who knew no sin, hath he made sin
for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. You see the blessed exchange
that he hath made with us,—he hath laid our sins on sinless Christ, and laid Christ’s righteousness
on sinful us. Christ took our sins on him, that he might give us his righteousness, and by
virtue of this transaction and communication, as it was righteous with God to condemn sin in
Christ’s flesh, because our sin was upon him, so it is as just with him to impute righteousness
to us, because we were in him. And as the law made him a curse, and exacted the punishment
of him, it is as righteous with the Lord to give us life and salvation, and to forgive sin,
as John speaks, 1st Epistle i. 9, “If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive
us our sins.”

Now consider this my beloved, for it is propounded unto you as the greatest persuasive to move
you to come to Jesus Christ,—there is such a clear and plain way in him to salvation. If this
do not move your hearts, I know not what will. I do not expect that your troubles in this world,—the
frequent lashes of judgment, the impoverishing and exhausting of you, the plucking away of
those things you loved, the disquieting your peace so often, that any of those things that
have the image of wrath upon them, can drive you to him, and make you forsake your way, when
such a motive as this doth not prevail with you. O what heart could stand against the power
of this persuasion, if it were but rightly apprehended! Who would not willingly fly into this
city of refuge, if they did but know aright the avenger of blood that pursues them, and what
safety is within? You are always imagining vain satisfactions to the law of God. How great
weight doth your fancy impose upon your tears, your confessions, your reformations! If you
can attain any thing of this kind, that is it which you give to satisfy justice, it is that
wherewith you pretend to fulfil the law. But if it could be so, wherefore should God have sent
his Son to condemn sin, and purchase righteousness by him? I beseech you, once know and consider
your estate, that you may open your hearts to this Redeemer, that you may be willing to be
stripped naked of all your imaginary righteousness, to put on this which will satisfy the law
fully. Will you die in your sins, because you will not come to him to have life? Will you rather
be condemned with sin, than saved with Christ’s righteousness? And truly, there is no other
altar that will preserve you but this. Now, if any, apprehending their own misery, be hardly
pursued in their consciences by the law of God, I beseech you come hither and behold it satisfied
and fulfilled. I beseech you in Christ’s stead to be reconciled unto God,—to lay down all hostile
affections, and come to him, because God is in Christ reconciling the world, and not imputing
their sins, because he hath imputed them already to Christ, “him who knew no sin,” &c, and
he is in Christ, imputing his righteousness to sinners.

Sermon XV.

    Verse 4.—“That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in
    us,” &c.

“Think not,” saith our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, “that I am come to destroy the law,—I
am come to fulfil it,” Matt. v. 17. It was a needful caveat, and a very timeous advertisement,
because of the natural misapprehensions in men’s minds of the gospel. When free forgiveness
of sins, and life everlasting, is preached in Jesus Christ, without our works; when the mercy
of God is proclaimed in its freedom and fulness, the heart of man is subject to a woful misconceit
of Christ, as if by these a latitude were given, and a liberty proclaimed to men to live in
sin. That which is propounded as the encouragement of poor sinners to come to God, and forsake
their own wicked way, is miserably wrested upon a mistake, to be an encouragement to revolt
more and more. Righteousness and life, by faith in a Saviour, without the works of the law,
is holden out as the grand persuasion of the gospel, to study obedience to the law. And yet
such is the perverseness of many hearts, that, either in opinion or practice, they so carry
themselves, as if there were an inconsistency between Christ and the law, between free justification
and sanctification,—as if Christ had come to redeem us, not from sin, but to sin. Now, to prevent
this, “think not,” saith he, “that I am come to destroy the law.” Do not fancy to yourselves
a liberty to live in sin, and an immunity from the obligation of a commandment, because I have
purchased an immunity and freedom from the curse. No, “I am come to fulfil it,” rather, not
only in mine own person, but in yours also. And to this purpose Paul, Rom. iii. 31, “Do we
then make void the law by faith?” It is so natural to our rebellious hearts to desire to be
free from the yoke of obedience, and therefore we fancy such a notion of faith, as may not
give itself to working in love, as is active in nothing but imagination. The apostle abominates
this,—“God forbid,” he detests it, as impious and sacrilegious; “yea, we establish it.” So
then, all returns to this, one of the great ends of Christ’s coming in the flesh, and one main
intendment of the gospel published in his name, is not merely to deliver us from wrath, and
redeem us from the curse, (Gal. iii. 13; 1 Thess. i. 10,) but also, and that especially, to
redeem us from all iniquity, that we might be a people zealous of good works, (Tit. ii. 14);
and to take away sin, and “destroy the works of the devil,” 1 John iii. 5, 8. We spoke something
before noon, how Christ hath fulfilled the law, and established it in his own person, by obedience
and suffering,—neither of which ways it could be so well contented by any other. But there
is yet a third way that he fulfils and establisheth it, and that is in our persons, “that the
righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after
the Spirit.” He hath obliged himself to fulfil it, not only for believers, but in believers.
Therefore the promises run thus, I will write my law in their hearts, and cause them to walk
in my statutes, Ezek. xxxvi. 27; Jer. xxxi. 33. Not only I delight to do thy will, but I will
make them delight to do it also. And truly, in this respect, the law is more fulfilled and
established by Christ, than ever it could have been, if man had been left to satisfy it alone.
If we had reckoned alone with the law, we had been taken up eternally with satisfying for the
breaches of it, so that there could be no access to obedience of the command, and no acceptance
either. A sinner must first satisfy the curse, for the fault done, before ever he can be in
a capacity to perform new obedience on the terms of acceptation of it with God. Now the first
would have taken up eternity, so that there can be no place of entry to the second; therefore,
if Christ had not found out a way of free pardon of the sins that are past, and assurance of
forgiveness for the time to come, the commandments of God would be wholly frustrated. “But
there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared,” Psalm cxxx. 4. The word is also
“worshipped.” Truly, my beloved, this is the foundation of all religion,—free forgiveness.
There had been no religion, no worship of God, no obedience to his commands throughout all
eternity; there should never have been any fear, any love, any delight in God, any reverence
and subjection to him, if he had not forgiveness,—a treasure of mercies with him to bestow
first upon sinners. And this makes access to stand and serve in his sight. The cloud of our
transgressions is so thick and dark, that there never could have been any communion with God,
if he had not found out the way to scatter and blot it out, for his own name’s sake. Religion,
then, must begin at this great and inestimable free gift of imputed righteousness,—of accounting
us what we are not in ourselves, because found so in another. It begins at remission of sins.
But that is not all. This hath a further end, and truly it is but introductive to a further
end; that so a soul may be made partaker of the gift of holiness within, and have that image
of God renewed in holiness and righteousness. I would have you once persuaded to begin at this,
to receive the free gift of another’s righteousness, (Rom. v. 17,) and another’s obedience,
to find your own nakedness and loathsomeness without this covering, and how short all other
coverings of your own works are. O that we could once persuade you to renounce yourselves,
to embrace this righteousness! Then it were easy to prevail with you to renounce sin, to put
on holiness. I say, first, you must renounce yourselves, as undone in all you do, as loathsome
in all that ever you loved, and come under the wide and broad skirt of Christ’s righteousness,
which he did weave upon the earth, for to hide our nakedness. You must once have the righteousness
of the law fulfilled perfectly by another, before you can have access to fulfil one jot of
it yourselves, or any thing you do be accepted. And, till this foundation be laid, you do but
beat the air in religion, you build on the sand.

Now, if once you were brought this length, to renounce all confidence in yourselves, and to
flee into Christ’s righteousness, then it were easy to lead you a step further,—to renounce
the love of your most beloved sins. And the more lovely that Christ’s righteousness is in your
eyes, the more beauty would holiness and obedience have in them also unto you. Then you would
labour to walk after the guidance of the Spirit.

I would have the impression of this deep in your hearts,—that the gospel is not a doctrine
of licentiousness, but a doctrine of the purest liberty, of the completest redemption. Many
think it liberty to serve their lusts; and it is indeed as bonds and cords to restrain them.
There is no man but would be content to be saved from the wrath to come; and therefore many
snatch at such sentences of the gospel, and take them lightly, without consideration of what
further is in it. But truly if this were all, it were not complete redemption, if there were
not redemption from sin too, which is the most absolute tyrant in the world. I think a true
Christian would account the service of sin bondage, though it were left at his own option.
He that commits sin, is the servant of sin; therefore the freedom that Christ purchaseth, is
freedom from sin, John viii. 36. I will say more. We are delivered from wrath, that so we may
be redeemed from sin. We have the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, that so the image
of Christ may be renewed within us; this is the very end of that. I am sure any that discerns
aright, knows sin to have infinitely more evil in it than punishment hath; nay, punishment
is only evil, as it hath relation to sin. There is a beauty of justice and righteousness in
punishment, but there is nothing in sin but deformity and opposition to his holiness. It is
purely evil, and most purely hated of God. And if there were no more to persuade you that sin
is infinitely more evil than pain, consider how our pain and punishment was really transferred
upon the blessed Son of God, and that all this did not make him a whit the worse. But he was
not capable of the real infusion of our sin. That would have made Christ as miserable, wretched,
and impotent, as any of us, that would have disabled him so far from helping us, that he would
have had as much need of a mediator as we,—all which were highly blasphemous to imagine. Look
then how much distance and difference there was between suffering, dying Christ, and wretched
men living in sin. None can say but he is infinitely better, even while in pain, nor(176) the
highest prince in pleasure, so much disproportion there is between sin and pain; so much is
the one worse than the other. Do not think then that Christ died to purchase an indulgence
for you to live in sin. Truly that were to take away the lesser evil, that the greater may
remain; that were to deliver from one misery, that we may be more involved in that which is
the greatest of all miseries.    Nay, certainly if Christ be a Redeemer, he must redeem us
from our most potent and accursed enemy,—sin; he must take away the root, the fountain of all
misery,—sin; that which conceived in its womb all pains, sorrows, sicknesses, death and hell.
You have the great end of redemption expressed, Luke i. 74, 75, “That we, being delivered from
all our enemies, might serve him without fear, in holiness and righteousness.” It was that
for which he made man at first, and it is that for which he hath made him again, “created unto
good works,” Eph. ii. 10. It was a higher design certainly, for which the Son of God became
partaker of our nature, than only to deliver us from hell. No doubt it was to make us partakers
of the divine nature, (2 Pet. i. 4;) and this is the very nature of God,—holiness and goodness.
As sin is the very nature and image of the devil, so the great breach of the creation was the
breaking off of this image of God. That was the heaviest fall of man, from the top of divine
excellency, into the bottom of devilish deformity. Now it is this that is the great plot for
which Christ came into the world,—to make up that breach, to restore man to that dignity again;
so that redemption from wrath is but a step to ascend upon, to that which is truly God’s design,
and man’s dignity,—conformity with God in holiness and righteousness.

O that you could be persuaded of this,—that Christ’s business in the world was not to bring
a notion of an imaginary righteousness only, by mere imputation, but to bring forth a solid
and real righteousness in our hearts, by the operation of his Spirit! I say, imputation, or
accounting righteous, is but a mere imagination, if this lively operation do not follow. He
came not only to spread his garment over our nakedness and deformity, but really and effectually
to be a physician to save our souls, to cure all our inward distempers. The gospel is not only
a doctrine of a righteousness without us, but of a righteousness both without, for, and within
us too;—“that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us,” &c. Christ without, happiness
itself without, cannot make us happy, till they come in within us, and take up a dwelling in
our souls. Therefore I declare unto the most part of you who pretend to expect salvation by
Jesus Christ, that you are yet in your sins, and as yet you have no fellowship in this redemption.
Do you think to walk after the course of the world, and the lusts of the flesh,—to wallow in
those common pollutions and uncleannesses among men, swearing, lying, contention, railing,
wrath, malice, envy, drunkenness, uncleanness, and such like, and yet be in Christ Jesus? Do
not deceive yourselves, “God is not mocked.” He that is in Christ is a new creature. His endeavour
and study, his affection and desire, is toward a new walk after the Spirit. Are not most of
you carnal, all flesh,—the flesh gives laws, and you obey them? Are not your immortal souls
enslaved to base lusts, to the base love of the world? Are they not prone to prostitute themselves
to the service of your fleshly and brutish part? Why do you then imagine, that you are in Christ
Jesus, partakers of his righteousness? Consider it in time, that so you may be indeed, what
you now are not, but pretend to be. It is the opinion that you are in Christ already that keeps
you out of him.

But, on the other hand again, there is nothing here to discourage a poor soul, that thinks
subjection to sin the greatest slavery, who would as gladly be redeemed from the power of it
as from hell. I say to such, whose soul’s desire it is to be purged from all that “filthiness
of the flesh and spirit,” and whose continued aim is to walk in obedience,—though you have
many failings, and often fall and defile yourselves again, yet this comfort is holden out here
unto you,—there is no condemnation to you; Jesus Christ hath condemned sin to save you, he
hath fulfilled all righteousness for you; and therefore lay you the weight of your acceptation
and consolation upon what he hath done himself, and not upon what is but yet a-doing in you.
Do you not find, I say, that the grace of Jesus Christ, revealed in the gospel, is that which
melts your hearts most? Is not the goodness of the Lord that which persuades you most? And
do not these make you loathe yourselves and love holiness? Encourage yourselves therefore in
him. Hold fast the righteousness that is without you by faith, and certainly you shall find
that righteousness and holiness shall in due time be fulfilled within you. I know no soul so
wretched, but it may lay hold on that perfect righteousness of Christ’s, and go under the covering
of it, and take heart from it, if so be the desire and affection of their soul be directed
to a further end, to have his Spirit dwelling within them, for the renewing of their heart
“in righteousness and true holiness.” I do not say, that this is a condition which you must
perform before you venture to lay hold on Christ’s righteousness without you; nowise, but rather
I would declare unto you the very nature of faith in Christ, that it seeks delivery from wrath
in him, not simply and lastly, but that a way may be made for redemption from sin, and that
there may be a participation of that divine nature, which is most in its eye.

Sermon XVI.

    Verse 4, 5.—“Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
    For they that are after the flesh,” &c.

If there were nothing else to engage our hearts to religion, I think this might do it, that
there is so much reason in it. Truly it is the most rational thing in the world, except some
revealed mysteries of faith, which are far above reason, but not contrary to it. There is nothing
besides in it, but that which is the purest reason. Even that part of it which is most difficult
to man, that which concerns the moderating of his lusts and affections, and the regulating
his walk and carriage;—there is nothing that Christianity requires in these matters, but that
which may be persuaded by most convincing reasons, to be most suitable and comely for man,
as man. You may take it in the subject in hand. There is nothing sounds harsher to men, and
seems harder in religion, than such a victory over the flesh, such an abstractedness from sensual
and earthly things. And yet, truly, there is nothing in the world, that more adorns and beautifies
a man, nothing so elevates him above beasts as this, insomuch that many natural spirits, void
of this saving light, have notwithstanding been taken with somewhat of the beauty of it, and
so far enamoured with the love of it, as to account all the world mad and brutish that followed
these lower things, and enslaved themselves unto them. I take the two fountains of all the
pollutions, disorders, and defilements among men, to be the inconsideration and ignorance of
God, that eternal Spirit and Fountain-being, and the ignorance of our own souls, those immortal
spirits within us, which are derived from that Fountain-spirit. This is the misery of men,
that scarce do they once seriously reflect upon their own spirits, or think what immortal souls
are within them, and what affinity these have to the Fountain of all spirits. Therefore do
men basely throw down themselves to the satisfaction of the lusts of the flesh. Now, indeed,
this is the very beginning of Christianity, to reduce men from these baser thoughts and employments,
to the consideration of their immortal souls within. And, O how will a Christian blush to behold
himself in that light, to see the very image of a beast upon his nature, to look on that slavery
and bondage of his far better part to the worst and brutish part in him,—his flesh!

If a man did wisely consider the constitution of his nature, from its first divine original,
and what a thing the soul is, which is truly and more properly himself, than his body; what
excellency is in the soul beyond the body, and so, what pre-eminency it advanceth a man unto
beyond a beast,—he could not but account religion the very ornament and perfection of his nature.
Reason will say, that the spirit, should rule and command the body, that, flesh is but the
minister and servant of the spirit, that there is nothing the proper and peculiar good of man,
but that which adorns and rectifies the spirit; that all those external things which men’s
senses are carried after with so much violence, do not better a man, as man, but are common
to beasts; that in these things, man’s happiness as man, doth not all consist, but in some
higher and more transcending good, which beasts are not capable of, and which may satisfy the
immortal spirit, and not perish in the using, but live with it. All these things, the very
natural frame and constitution of man doth convincingly persuade. Now then, may a soul think
within itself, O how far am I departed from my original! How far degenerated from that noble
and royal dignity, that God by the stamp of his image once put upon me! How is it that I am
become a slave and drudge to that baser and brutish part, the flesh? I would have you retire
into your own hearts, and ask such things at them. Man being in honour, and understanding not,
is even like the beasts that perish. Truly we are become like beasts, because we consider not
that we are men, and so advanced by creation far above beasts. The not reflecting on the immortal,
spiritual nature of our souls, hath transformed us, in manner, into the nature of beasts, perishing
beasts. Christianity is the very transforming of a beast into a man, as sin was the deforming
of man into a beast. This is the proper effect of Christianity,—to restore humanity, to elevate
it, and purify it from all those defilements and corruptions that were engrossed and incorporated
into it, by the state of subjection to the flesh. And therefore the apostle delineates the
nature of it unto us, and draws the difference wide between the natural man and a Christian.

The natures of things are dark and hidden in themselves but they come to be known to us by
their operations and acting. Their inclinations and instincts are known this way. Grace is
truly a very spiritual thing, and the nature of it lies high. Yet as Christ could not be hid
in the house, neither can grace be hid in the heart,—it will be known by its working. Christ
can be better hid in a home than in the heart, because, when he is in a heart, he is engaged
to restore that heart and soul to its native dignity and pre-eminency over the flesh, and this
cannot but cause much disturbance in the man, for a season. To change governments, to cast
out usurpers and to restore the lawful and righteous owner to the possession of his right,
cannot be done secretly and easily. It will shake the very foundations of a kingdom to accomplish
it. So it is here—the restitution of the soul to the possession of its right and dominion over
the flesh,—the casting out of that tyrannous and base usurper, the flesh, cannot be done, except
all the man know it, feel it, and in a manner be pained with it. Now, the nature of Christianity
doth lay itself open to us in these two especially, in what it minds and savours and how it
causeth to walk. Life is known especially by affection and motion. A feeling, thinking, savouring
power, is a living power, so a moving, walking power is a living power, and these are here.
The Christian is shortly described by his nature. He is one after the Spirit not after the
flesh, and by the proper characteristical operations of that nature, first, minding or savouring
“the things of the Spirit,” which comprehends his inward thoughts, affections, intentions,
and cogitations. All his inward senses are exercised about such objects. And then he is one
walking “after the Spirit,” his motions are in a course of obedience, proceeding from that
inward relish or taste that he hath of the things of God. It is not without very good reason,
that the name of a Christian is thus expressed,—one “after the Spirit.” That is his character
that expresses his nature unto us. Whether ye look to the original of Christianity, or the
prime subject of it, or the chief end of it, it deserves to be called by this name. The original
of it is very high, as high as that eternal Spirit, as high as the God of the spirits of all
flesh. Things are like their original, and some way participate of the nature of their causes.
“That which is born of the Spirit, is spirit,” John iii. 6. That which is born of God, who
is a Spirit, must be spirit, 1 John v. 1. How royal a descent is that! How doth it nobilitate
a man’s nature! Truly, all other degrees of birth among men are vain imaginary things, that
have no worth at all, but in the fancies of men. They put no real excellency in men. But this
is only true nobility. This alone doth extract a man de fæce vulgi out of the dregs of the
multitude. There is no intrinsic difference between bloods, or natures, but what this makes,
this divine birth, this second birth. All other differences are but in opinion, this is in
reality. It puts the image of that blessed Spirit upon a man. Truly, such a creature is not
begotten in the womb of any natural cause, of my human persuasion, or enticing words of man’s
wisdom, of any external mercy or judgment. No instruction, no persuasion, no allurement, nor
affrightment can make you Christians in the Spirit, till the Spirit blow when he pleaseth,
and create you again. It must come from above—that power that ran set your hearts aright, and
make them to look straight above.

Christ Jesus came down from heaven unto the earth, and took on our flesh, that so the almighty
Spirit might come down to transform our spirits, and lift them up from the earth to the heaven.
We cast the seed into the ground of men’s hearts, (and alas! it gets entry but in few souls,
it is scattered rather on the highway side, and cannot reach into the arable ground of the
heart,) but it can do nothing without the influence of heaven, except the Spirit beget you
again by that immortal seed of the word. Therefore we would cease our wondering, that all the
means of God’s word and works do not beget more true Christians. I do rather wonder that any
of Adam’s wretched posterity should be begotten again, and advanced to so high a dignity, to
be born of the Spirit. O that Christians would mind their original, and wonder at it, and study
to be like it! If you believe and consider that your descent is from that uncreated Spirit,
how powerful might that be to conform you more and more to him, and to transform more and more
of your flesh into spirit! There is nothing will raise up the spirits of the children of princes
more, than to know their royal birth and dignity. How should the consideration of this make
your spirits suitable to your state or fortunes, as we use to say? You would labour to raise
them up to that height of your original, and to walk worthy of that high calling. O that we
could learn that instruction from it which Paul gives, 1 Cor i. 30, 31, “But of him are ye
in Christ,” therefore let him that glorieth, “glory in the Lord.” Truly, a soul possessed with
the meditation of this royal descent from God, could not possibly glory in those inglorious
baser things, in which men glory, and could not contain or restrain gloriation and boasting
in him. The glory of many is their shame, because it is their sin, of which they should be
ashamed. But suppose that in which men glory be not shame in itself, as the lawful things of
this present world, yet certainly it is a great shame for a Christian to glory in them, or
esteem the better of himself for them. If this were minded always,—that we are of God, born
of God, what power do you think temptations, or solicitations to sin, would have over us! “He
that is born of God sinneth not,—he keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not,”
1 John v. 18, 19. Truly, this consideration imprinted in the heart, would elevate us above
all these baser persuasions of the flesh. This would make sin loathsome and despicable, as
the greatest indignity we could do to our own natures. The strength and advantage of sin, is
to make us forget what we are, whom we have relation unto,—to drink us drunk with the puddle
of the world, or then with our own jealousies and suspicions, that we may forget our birth
and state, and so be enticed to any thing. If you would have wherewith to beat back all the
fiery darts of the devil, take the shield of this faith and persuasion, how would it silence
temptations? “Shall I, who am a ruler flee?” saith Nehemiah. Shall I, who am born of the Spirit;
shall I, who am of God in Christ, abase myself to such unworthy and base things? Shall I dishonour
my Father, and disgrace myself?

Then Christianity’s chief residence, its royal seat, is in the spirit of a man, and so he is
one after the Spirit. Be ye “renewed in the spirit of your mind,” Eph. iv. 23. As it is of
a high descent, so it must have the highest and most honourable lodging in all the creation,
that is, the spirit of a man. Without this there is no room else fit for it, and suitable to
it, in this lower world. “My son, give me thine heart,” saith Wisdom, Prov. xxiii. 26. It cares
for nothing besides, if it get not the heart, the inmost cabinet of the imperial city of this
isle of man, for “out of it are the issues of life, that flow into all the members.” Do not
think that grace will lodge one night in your outward man, that you can put on Christianity
upon your countenance or conversation without. Except you admit it into your souls, it can
have no suitable entertainment there alone. It is of a spiritual nature, and it must have a
spirit to abide in. Every thing is best preserved and entertained by things suitable to its
nature, such do incorporate together, and imbosom one with another, whereas things keep a greater
distance with things different in nature. A flame will die out among cold stones, without oily
matter. This heavenly fire that is descended into the world, can have nothing earthly to feed
upon. It must die out, except it get into the immortal spirit, and then furnish, so to speak,
perpetual nourishment to it, till at length all the spirit be set on flame, and changed, as
it were, into that heavenly substance, to mount up above, from whence it came. Do not think,
my beloved, to superinduce true religion upon your outside, and within to be as rotten sepulchres.
You must either open your hearts to Christ, or else he will not abide with you. Such a noble
guest will not stay in the suburbs of the city, if you take him not into the palace; and truly
the palace of our hearts is too unworthy for such a worthy guest, it hath been so defiled by
sin. How vile is it? But if you would let him enter, he would wash it and cleanse it for himself.

Will you know then the character of a Christian? He is one much within. He hath retired into
his own spirit, to know how it goes with it; and he finds all so disordered and confused, all
so unsettled, that, he gets so much business to do at home, he gets no leisure to come much
abroad again. It is the misery of men, that they are wholly without, carried into external
things only; and this is the very character of a beast, that it cannot reflect inwardly upon
itself, but is wholly spent on things that are presented to the outward senses. There is nothing
in which men are more assimilated to beasts than this, that we do not speak in ourselves, or
return into our own bosoms, but are wholly occupied about the things that are without us. And
thus it fares with us, as with the man that is busy in all other men’s matters, and never thinks
of his own. His estate must needs ruin; all his affairs must be out of course. Truly, while
we are immersed and drowned in external things, our souls are perishing, our inward estate
is washing away. All our own affairs, that can only and properly be called ours, are disordered
and jumbled. Therefore, Christianity doth first of all recall the wandering and vain spirit
of man into itself, as that exhortation is, Psal. iv. 9, to “commune” with his “own heart,”—to
make a diligent search of his own affairs; and, O how doth he find all out of course; as a
garden neglected, all overgrown,—as a house not inhabited all dropping through,—in a word,
wholly ruinous, through intolerable negligence! It was the first turn of the prodigal to return
to himself, “he came to himself,” Luke xv. 17. Truly, sin is not only an aversion from God,
but it is an estrangement from ourselves, from our souls, from our own happiness. It is a madness
that takes away the use of reason and consideration of our own selves. But grace is a conversion,
not only to God, but to ourselves. It bringeth a man home to his heart, maketh him sober again
who was beside himself. Hence that phrase, 1 Kings viii. 47. “When they shall turn to their
own hearts, and return.” It is the most laborious vanity, or the vainest labour, to compass
heaven and earth,—to be so busied abroad,—to know other things, and then to know and consider
nothing of that which of all things most nearly concerns us,—ourselves. “What shall it profit
a man, if he gain the whole world, and lose his soul?” for that is himself. And what shall
it profit to know all, and not know his soul, to be everywhere but where he ought to be. Well,
a Christian is one called home from vain impertinent diversions, one that is occupied most
about his soul and spirit, how to have all the disorders he finds in himself ordered, all those
distempers cured, all those defilements washed. This is the business he is about in this world,
to wash his heart from wickedness, (Jer. iv. 14,)—to cleanse even vain thoughts, and shut up,
from that ordinary repair,(177) his own heart. He is about the enclosing it to be a garden
to the well-beloved, to bring forth sweet fruits. He is about the renewing of it, the adorning
it with the new man, against that day of our Bridegroom’s appearing, and bringing him up to
celebrate the marriage. Though he be in the flesh, yet he is most taken up with his spirit,
how to have it restored to that primitive beauty and excellency, the image of God in it; how
to be clothed with humility, and to put on the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit,—that he
accounts his beauty; how to rule his own spirit,—that he accounts only true fortitude; and
thinks it a greater vassalage and victory to overcome himself than his enemy, and esteems it
the noblest revenge, not to be like to other men that wrong him. He is occupied about the highest
gain and advantage, viz. to save his spirit and soul; and accounts all loss to this,—to bring
Jesus Christ into the heart. That is the jewel he digs for, and esteems all dung in comparison
of it.

If you be Christians after the Spirit, no doubt you are busied this way about your spirits.
For others, they are busied about the flesh,—to make provision for its lusts; and there needs
no other mark to know them by. Alas! poor souls, to this you have never yet adverted that you
have spirits, immortal beings within you, which must survive this dust, this corruptible flesh;
what will ye do, when you cannot have flesh to care for,—when your spirits can have nothing
to be carried forth into, but must eternally dwell within the bosom of an evil conscience,
and be tormented with that worm, the bitter remembrance of the neglect of your spirits, and
utter estrangement from them, while you were in the body? Then you must be confined within
your own evil consciences, and be imprisoned there for ever, because, while yet there was time
and season, you were always abroad, and everywhere, but within your own hearts and consciences,—and
is not that a just recompense?

Then again, as Christianity descends from the Father of spirits, into the spirit of a man,
to lodge there for a while, it doth at length bring up the spirit of a man, and unites it to
that eternal Spirit; and so, as the original was high and divine, the end is high too. It issues
out of that Fountain, and returns with the heart of man, to imbosom itself in that again. And
truly, this is the great excellency of true religion above all those things you are busied
about, that it elevates the spirit of a man to God; that it will never rest till it have carried
it above to the Fountain-spirit. Our spirits are sparks and chips, to speak so with reverence,
of that divine Being; but now they are wholly immersed and sunk into the flesh, and into the
earth by sin, till grace come down and renew them, and extract them out of that dunghill, and
purify them. And then they are, as in a state of violence, always striving to mount upwards,
till they be embodied, or rather inspirited, so to speak, in that original Spirit, till they
be wholly united to their own element, the divine nature. You know Christ’s prayer, John xvii.
“That they may be one, as we are one; I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect
in one,” ver. 22, 23. Then spirits have attained their perfection, then will they “rest from
their labours,” when they are one with him. This is the only centre of spirits, in which they
can rest immoveable. You find all the desires and affections of the saints are as so many breathings
upward, pantings after union with him, and longings to be intimately present with the Lord.
Therefore a Christian is one after the Spirit, groaning to be all spirit, to have the earthly
house of this tabernacle dissolved, and to be clothed upon with that house from heaven. He
knows with Paul, that he is not at home, though he be at home in the body, because the body
is that which separates from the Lord, which partition-wall he would willingly have taken down,
that his spirit might be at home, present with the Lord, 2 Cor. v. 1, &c. “Who knoweth (saith
Solomon) the spirit of a man that ascends upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward
to the earth?” Eccles. iii. 21. Truly, the natural motion of man’s spirit should be to ascend
upward to God who gave it. When this frail and broken vessel of the body is dissolved into
the elements, the higher and purer nature that lodged within it should fly upwards to heaven;
even as the spirit of the beasts, being but the prime and finer part of the body, not different
in nature from the earth, naturally falls down to the earth with the body, and is dissolved
into the elements. But I think, the consideration of that woful disorder, that sin hath brought
into the world, that all things in man are so degenerated and become brutish, both his affections
and his conversation, that carnal and sensual lusts have the whole dominion over men; I say,
the serious and earnest view of this might make a man suspect and call in question, whether
or not there be any difference between men and beasts; whether or not there may be any spirit
in the one of a higher nature than in the other? Truly, it would half persuade, that there
is no immortal spirit in man, else how could he be such a beast all his time, “serving diverse
lusts?” Can it be possible, might one think, that there is any spirit in men, that can ascend
to heaven, when there is no motion thither to be observed among men? I beseech you, consider
this,—the spirit must either ascend or descend when it goes out of the body, as now in affection
and endeavour it ascends or descends while it is in the body. There is an indispensable connection
between these. Whatsoever the spirit aims at, which way soever it turns and directs its flight,
thither it shall be constrained to go eternally. Do you think, my beloved, while you are in
the body, to bow down yourselves to the earth, to descend into the service of the flesh all
your time, never once seriously to rise up in the consideration of eternity, or lift up your
heads above temporal and earthly things, and yet in the close to ascend unto heaven? No, no;
do not deceive yourselves; you must go forward. This life and eternity make one straight line,
either of ascent or descent, of happiness or misery, and since you have bowed down always,
while in the body, there is no rising up after it. Forward you must go, and that is downward
to that element, into which you transformed your spirits, that is, the earth, or below the
earth—to hell. Your spirits have most affinity with these, and down they must go, as a stone
to the earth. But if you would desire to have your spirits ascending up to heaven, when they
are let out of this prison, the body, take heed which way they turn. Bend and strive while
here in the body. If your strugglings be to be upward to God, if you have discovered that blessedness
which is in him, and if this be the predominant of your spirit, that carries it upwards in
desires and endeavour, and turns it off the base study of satisfying the flesh and the base
love of the world, if thy soul be mounting aloft on these wings of holy desires of a better
life than can be found in any thing below, certainly the motion of thy spirit will be in a
straight line upward. When thou leavest thy dust to the earth, angels wait to carry that spirit
to that bosom of Christ where it longed and liked most to be. But devils do attend the souls
of most part of men, to thrust them down below the earth, because they did still bend down
to the earth.

Sermon XVII.

    Verse 5.—“For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of
    the flesh,”, &c.

Though sin hath taken up the principal and inmost cabinet of the heart of man—though it hath
fixed its imperial throne in the spirit of man, and makes use of all the powers and faculties
in the soul to accomplish its accursed desires and fulfil its boundless lusts, yet it is not
without good reason expressed in scripture, ordinarily under the name of “flesh,” and a “body
of death,” and men dead in sins, are said to be yet in the flesh. The reason is, partly because
this was the rise of man’s first ruin, or the chiefest ingredient in his first sin,—his hearkening
to the suggestions of his flesh against the clear light and knowledge of his spirit. The apple
was beautiful to look on and sweet to the taste, and this engaged man. Thus the voluntary debasement
and subjection of the spirit—which was breathed in of God—unto the service of that dust which
God had appointed to serve it hath turned into a necessary slavery, so that the flesh being
put in the throne cannot be cast out. And this is the righteous judgment of God upon man, that
he that would not serve so good and so high a Lord, should be made a drudge and slave to the
very dregs of the creation. Partly again, because the flesh hath in it the seeds of the most
part of these evil fruits, which abound in the world. The most part of our corruptions have
either their rise or their increase from the flesh, the most part of the evils of men are either
conceived in the flesh or brought forth by it, by the ministry and help of our degenerate spirits.
And truly this is it that makes our returning to God so hard and difficult a work, because
we are in the flesh, which is like stubble, disposed to conceive flame upon any sparkle of
a temptation, there are so many dispositions and inclinations in the body since our fall, that
are as powerful to carry us to excess and inordinateness in affection or conversation, as the
natural instincts of beasts do drive them on to their own proper operations. You know the flesh
is oftentimes the greatest impediment that the spirit hath, because of its lumpishness and
earthly quality. How willing would the spirit be, how nimble and active in the ways of obedience,
if it were not retarded, dulled, and clogged with the heavy lump of our flesh! “The spirit
indeed is willing but the flesh is weak,” saith Christ, Matt. xxvi. 41. Truly I think the great
remissness, negligence, weakness, fainting of Christians, in their race of Christianity, arise
ordinarily from this weight that is carried about with them, that it must be some extraordinary
impulse of a higher Spirit to drive us on without wearying. And because of this indisposition
of the flesh, we are not able to bear much of God’s presence in this life, (it would certainly
confound mortality, if so much were let out of it as is in heaven) no more than a weak eye
can endure to behold the sun in its brightness.  And then the flesh, as it is the greatest
retardment in good, it is the greatest incitement to evil, it is a bosom enemy, that betrays
us to Satan, it is near us and connatural to us. And this is the great advantage Satan hath
of a Christian, he hath a friend within every Christian, that betrays him often. You know the
most part of temptations from without could have no such force or strength against us if there
were not some predisposition in the flesh, some seeds of that evil within, if they were not
presented to some suitableness to our senses, and they being once engaged on Satan’s side,
they easily draw the whole man with them, under a false colour and pretence of friendship,
therefore they are said to “war against the soul,” 1 Pet. ii. 11, and they are said “easily”
to “beset us,” Heb. xii. 1. Truly it is no wonder that the enemy storm our city, when the outworks
yea, the very ports of the city, are possessed by traitors. No wonder Satan approach near the
walls with his temptations, when our senses, our fleshly part, are so apt to receive him, and
ready to entertain all objects without difference, that are suitable to affect them.

You see then how much power the flesh hath in man so that it is no wonder that every natural
man hath this denomination, one “after the flesh,” one carnal from the predominating part,
though the worst part. Every man by nature till a higher birth come may be called all flesh,
all fashioned and composed of the flesh, and after the flesh, even his spirit and mind being
fleshly and earthly, sunk into the flesh, and transformed into a brutish quality or nature.
Now the great purpose of the gospel is, to bring along a deliverer unto your spirits, for the
releasing and unfettering of them from the chains of fleshly lusts. This is the very work of
Christianity, to give liberty to the captive souls of men “and the opening of the prison to
them that are bound,” Isa. lxi. 1. The souls of men are chained with their own fleshly lusts,
and if at any time they can break these grosser chains, as some finer spirits have escaped
out of the vilest dungeon of the flesh, and cast off these heavier chains that bind the most
part of men, yet wholly escape they cannot. There be higher and lower rooms of this prison,
there are some more gross, some more subtile cords and bands of the flesh, and whatsoever it
be that holds a man bound or in whatsoever house he be imprisoned, it is not much matter, since
really he is bound, and his liberty restrained. If a chain of gold bind as fast as a chain
of iron, there is no real difference, except that mockery is added unto it, when a man is detained
in a golden prison with golden chains. Though some men, I say, escape the grosser pollutions
of the flesh, yet they are fettered within some narrow, scant, and but imaginary good things,
they cannot go without the compass of those. Every man is confined by nature within the circle
of his own narrow bosom or if he expatiate into the field of the world, yet how narrow, how
limited are all created objects, for the infinite desires of the soul, whether it tend to the
enjoyment of other creatures, or to the possession of some imaginary excellency in a man’s
self. How straitened are they! How imprisoned in all that compass! There is no true liberty
can be found there. Though some may be disengaged from baser lusts and the common vain employments
of men, yet far they cannot go, they do but engage more with themselves the love and estimation
of themselves. Without that compass they cannot possibly go, whether from another principle,
or to another end. And, O how little bounds is within any created breast for the immortal spirit,
that is so vast and expatiating in its desires to dwell in!

But here is the perfect redemption that is in Jesus Christ. When he comes into the soul, he
unfetters and releases it, not only of the grosser lusts of the flesh, but even of those subtile
invisible bands of self love, self seeking, of all scant, narrow, and particular objects, and
sets it at liberty to expatiate in that universal good, the infinite fulness of God, and grace
which is in Christ Jesus, and hence a Christian is called one “after the Spirit” that is, whose
spirit is rid and delivered from that natural bondage and slavery to the creatures, and is
espoused, at least in affection and endeavour, to the all-sufficient and self sufficient God.

We told you that this new nature of a Christian shows itself in affection and motion, in minding
and walking, both are signs of life, and the proper actions of it. As the natural man is easily
known by what he minds and savours, and what way he walks, so is the spiritual man. Minding
or savouring comprehends, no doubt, all the inward acts of the soul, all the imaginations,
cogitations, thoughts, affections, desires and purposes of the soul. To express it shortly,
there is a concurrence of these two, cogitation and affection, the understanding and the will,
in this business. The natural man knoweth not the things of the Spirit, so he cannot taste
or relish them, since he doth not know them, 1 Cor. ii. 14. How can they believe on him whom
they have not heard? But far more, how can men love and desire that which they do not know?
Though it be hard to convince some that they know not God, nor the things of the Spirit, because
they have some form of knowledge, and seem to understand, and can discourse on religion, yet
I wonder that the most part of men, whose ignorance is written in their foreheads with such
palpable characters, should have so much difficulty to take with this challenge. I am sure,
many that persuade themselves of heaven, are yet shut up in that dungeon of natural blindness
and darkness of mind, and that so gross and thick darkness that it is not possible to make
them conceive any notion of spiritual things, the common twilight of nature is almost extinguished,
and little or nothing increased by their education in the visible church. How can you prize
and esteem Jesus Christ, of whom you know nothing but the bare name? How can you savour heaven,
when you have never admitted one serious thought of the life to come? O that you could be persuaded,
that the grace of God is inconsistent with such gross ignorance, as is in the generality light
of you! Truly grace is a light shining in the soul, that opens the eyes to see that that surrounds
us in the gospel. But will you consider, beloved, how ready you are to receive other things
of no moment how your memories can retain them, and your understandings receive other purposes
very perplexed and laborious, but for the knowledge of your sin and misery, or of that blessed
remedy showed in the gospel we cannot make you capable of a few questions about them, and if
you learn the words by heart, (as you use to speak,) yet, alas! the matter and thing itself
is not in the heart or mind, you have nothing but words, as appears. If we ask about the same
matter in other words and terms, it is as dark and new to you, as if you had never heard it.
I beseech you consider, if you do not then mind the things of the flesh most when you are not
only most capable to know these things that concern this life, but most ready to entertain
such thoughts. You have no difficulty to mind the world whole weeks and years, but you can
never find leisure or time to mind the life to come, and yet vainly you say, you mind it always.
I beseech you, how do you mind God, and the things of God, when, if you will but recollect
your thoughts, and gather the sum of them, you will not find one serious advised thought of
him or his matters in a whole week! I profess I wonder how so many can enforce upon themselves
a persuasion that God is always in their heart. I think it is the height of delusion! I am
sure he is not in one of ten thousand thoughts, that travel, walk, lodge, and dwell in the
souls of men, and yet they will needs bear upon themselves that they always mind him. I am
sure most of you cannot say, that ever you shut the doors of your hearts upon other vain objects,
that you might retire to secret meditation on God, or conference with him, and I am as sure,
that many men have God oftener in their mouths, by oaths and blasphemies, and irreverent speaking,
and taking his holy name in vain, than in their minds, prayers or praises, or any holy meditations
of him. Are you not as unwilling to fix your minds upon any sad solemn thoughts of God’s justice,
of hell, of heaven, of sin or misery, of death, as boys, whose heads are full of play, are
loath to go to their books? Doth not your practice in this speak with these wicked men, who
say, (Job xxi. 14.) “Depart from us, we desire not the knowledge of thy ways?” How constrained
are all your thoughts of religion! They are entertained as those whom you would not desire
to come again. But how unconstrained, how free are all other thoughts! Our minds can rove whole
days about vanity, about fancies, dreams, nothings; but you neither like to admit nor retain
the knowledge of God in your mind, Rom. i. 28. Do you not entertain any serious weighty thoughts
of religion, that by occasion may enter as fire-brands, as hot coals in your bosom? How glad
are you to get any diversion to other things! How willing to shun them, or cast them out! But
if it be any temporal thing, any thing relating to this flesh, your thoughts come freely off,
are steady and fixed as long as you please, your minds can travel through all the ends of the
earth, to bring in some fancy of gain or advantage, or to steal by precious time, and that
without wearying. Now all these things considered, my beloved, are you not carnal? I speak
to the most of you, are you not those who are born of the flesh, since you mind nothing seriously,
resolutely, constantly and willingly, but the things of the flesh, and the things of this life?
O it is no light matter to be born of the flesh; if you continue so, you are ordained for corruption,
for death; “to be carnally minded is death,” ver. 6, of this chapter.

But I am persuaded better things of some of you, that the true light of God hath shined into
your hearts, and revealed more excellent things unto you than these perishing fleshly things,
viz. heavenly, substantial, and eternal things in the gospel, which you account only worthy
of the fixed and continued meditation of your spirits. I am sure you perceive another beauty
and excellency in these things than the world doth, because the Spirit hath revealed them unto
you. It is true that your minds are yet much darkened in their apprehension of spiritual things,
they are not so willing to receive them, nor so ready to retain them as you desire, they are
very unsettled and unsteady in the meditations of spiritual things, and there are innumerable
thoughts of other things that pass through your hearts like common inns, uncontrolled at their
pleasure; all this is true, but I am sure it is the grief of your souls that your hearts are
not so fixed and established as the excellency of these spiritual things require. I know it
will be the aim and real endeavour of any spiritual heart, to be shutting up all the entries
and doors of the mind, that vain thoughts enter not; yet enter they will, there are so many
porches to enter in at, and our narrow spirits cannot watch at all. Every sense will let in
objects, and imagination itself will be active in framing them, and presenting them: but yet
the endeavour of a Christian will be, not to let them lodge long within (Jer. iv. 14.). If
they come in unawares, he will labour to make a diversion to a better purpose, and so still
it holds good, that the current and course of a Christian’s thoughts and cogitations are upon
the “things of the Spirit,”—how to get his own heart washed and cleansed,—how to be more holy
and conformed to Christ,—how to be at peace with God, and keep that peace unbroken,—how to
walk in obedience to God, and in duty towards men,—how to forsake himself, and withal to deny
himself in all these; I say, his most serious and solemn thoughts are about these things, his
resolved and advised thoughts run most on this strain, though it be true that, whether he will
or not, other vain and impertinent, or not so concerning thoughts, will pass more lightly,
and too frequently through his heart.

The other thing in which this spiritual life doth appear, is the current of the affections,
or that relish and taste of the sweetness of the things of the Spirit, flowing from the apprehension
of them in the mind. When the light is discovered indeed, (and O it is a pleasant thing for
the eye to behold it, as Solomon speaks,) then the Spirit hath found an object suitable to
its nature, and so it relisheth and delighteth in it: therefore the word is not simple minding,
or thinking, but savouring, thinking with affection upon them, tasting and feeding upon the
knowledge of them, it is a minding of them with care and delight, with earnestness (φρονειν)
“O taste and see how good the Lord is,” Psal. xxxiv. 8. Some things indeed cannot be known
but by some sense. You cannot make a blind man apprehend what light is, till he see it. A deaf
man cannot form a notion of sounds in his mind, except he once heard them; neither can a man
understand the sweetness of honey, but by tasting it. Truly spiritual things are of that nature,
there is some hidden virtue and excellency in them, which is not obvious to every man that
hath the bare knowledge of the letter, there is a spirit and life in them, that cannot be transmitted
into your ears with the sound of words, or infused into ink and paper; it is only the inspiration
of the Almighty can inspire this sensible perception, and real taste of spiritual things. Some
powders do not smell till they are beaten, truly till these truths be well powdered and beaten
small by meditation, they cannot smell so fragrantly to the spirit. As meats do not nourish
till they be chewed and digested, so spiritual things do not relish to a soul, nor can they
truly feed the soul, till they be chewed and digested into the heart by serious and earnest
consideration. This is that which makes these same truths to be someway not the same; these
very principles of religion received and confessed by all, to be lively in one, and dead in
another. It is the living consideration of living truth, the application of truth to the heart,
that makes it lively in one, whereas others keep it only beside them in a corner of their minds,
or in a book, in the corner of the house.   The same meat is laid to you all, the most part
look on it, others contemplate it, and exercise only their understandings about it, but there
are some who taste it, and find sweetness in it, who digest it by meditation and solemn avocation
of their hearts from the things of the world, and therefore some are fed, some are starved.

Need we to enlarge much upon this subject? Is it not too palpable that many who fill up our
churches are in the flesh, because they do mind and savour only the things of the flesh, and
not of the Spirit? Will you seriously search your hearts, ask what relishes most with them?
Can you say, that it is the kingdom of God or the righteousness thereof? Or is it not rather
those other things of food and raiment, and such like, that have no extent beyond this narrow
span of time? I am persuaded the hearts of many taste no sweetness in religion, else they would
fix more upon it, and pursue it more earnestly. Are not the things of another world, the great
things of the gospel, counted all strange things, (Hos. viii. 12,) as things that you have
not much to do with? Do you not let the officers of Jesus Christ, all the sweet invitations
of the gospel, pass by as strangers, and as if ye were unconcerned in them? What taste have
they more than the white of an egg? How unsavoury a discourse or thought to a carnal heart
is it, to speak of subduing the lusts of the flesh, of dying to the world, of the world to
come? Who find their hearts inwardly stirred upon the proposal of Jesus Christ? But if any
matter of petty gain were proffered, O how would men listen with both their ears! How beautiful
in the eyes of the covetous mind is any gain and advantage! The sound of money is sweeter to
him than this blessed sound of peace and salvation. How sweet is pleasure to the voluptuous!
What suitableness and conveniency is apprehended in these perishing things! But how little
moment or weight is conceived and believed to be in things eternal? O how substantial do things
visible seem to men, and how trifling do other things invisible appear! But for you whose eyes
are opened, to you Christ is precious; to you the things of the Spirit are beautiful, and all
your grief is, that you cannot affect them according to their worth, or love them according
to their beauty. I say, some there are who do see a substance and subsistence only in things
not seen (Heb. xi. 1), and for things that are seen and visible in this world, they do account
them shadows only in comparison of things invisible.  The world apprehends no realities, but
in what they see, but a Christian apprehends no solid reality in that he sees, but only in
that he sees not, and therefore, as in his judgment he looks upon the one as a shadow, the
other as a substance, so he labours to proportion and conform his affection to a suitable entertainment
of them, to give a shadow of show of affection to the things of this life, but the marrow and
substance of his heart to the things invisible of another life. Thus the apostle, 1 Cor. vii.
29: “Rejoicing, as if we rejoiced not, enjoying, as if we possessed not, using, as if we used
not,” half acts for half objects. If we give our whole spirits, the strength of our souls and
minds to them, we are as foolish as he that strikes with all his strength at the air, or a
feather. There is no solidity or reality in these things, able to bottom much estimation or
affection, only mind them and use them as in the by, as in passing through towards your country.

Sermon XVIII.

    Verses 5, 6.—“For they that are after the flesh do mind,” &c. “For
    to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is
    life and peace.”

There are many differences among men in this world, that, as to outward appearance, are great
and wide, and indeed they are so eagerly pursued, and seriously minded by men, as if they were
great and momentous. You see what a strife and contention there is among men, how to be extracted
out of the dregs of the multitude, and set a little higher in dignity and degree than they.
How do men affect to be honourable above the base! How do they seek to be rich, and hate poverty!
These differences of poor and rich, high and low, noble and ignoble, learned and unlearned,
the thoughts of men are wholly taken up with, but there is one great difference, that is most
in God’s eye, and is both substantial and eternal, and so infinitely surpasseth all these differences
that the minds of men most run out upon; and it is here, the great difference between flesh
and spirit, and them that are after the flesh, and them that are after the Spirit. This is
of all other most considerable, because widest and durablest. I say, it is the widest of all,
for all others put no great difference between men as men, they do reach the peculiar excellency
of a man, that is, the true, and proper, good of his spiritual and immortal part, they are
such as befall alike to good and bad, and so cannot have either much good or much evil in them.
I have seen folly set in great dignity, and princes walking on foot, Eccles. x. 6, 7. Then
certainly such titles of honour and dignity, such places of eminency erected above the multitude,
have little or nothing worth the spirit of a man in them, seeing a fool, a wicked man, is as
capable of them, as a wise man, or a man of a princely spirit, and so of all others, they do
not elevate a man, as a man, above others. A poor, unlearned, mean man may have more real excellency
in him, than a rich, learned, and great person. But this draws a substantial and vast difference
indeed, such as is between flesh and spirit, such as is between men and beasts. You know what
pre-eminency a man hath over a beast. There is no such wide distance among the sons of men
as between the lowest and meanest man and the chiefest beast. “There is a spirit in man,” saith
Elihu, Job xxxii. 8,—an immortal, eternal substance, of a far higher nature and comprehension.
You know what excellency is in the spirit beyond the flesh, such as is in heaven beyond the
earth, for the one is breathed from heaven, and the other is taken out of the dust of the earth;
the one is corruptible, yea, corruption itself, the other incorruptible. How swift and nimble
are the motions of the spirit, from the one end of heaven to the other! How can it compass
the earth in a moment! Do but look and see what a huge difference is between a beautiful living
body, and the same when it is a dead carcase, rotten and corrupted. It is the spirit dwelling
within that makes the odds, that makes it active, beautiful, and comely, but in the removal
of the spirit, it becometh a piece of the most defiled and loathsome dust in the world.

Now, I say, such a vast and wide difference there is between a true Christian and a natural
man, even taking him in with all his common endowments and excellencies, the one is a man,
the other a beast, the one is after the flesh, the other is after the Spirit. It is the ordinary
compellation of the Holy Ghost, “Man being in honour, and understanding not, is like the beasts
that perish,” Psal. xlix. 20, and xciv. 8, “Understand, ye brutish among the people,” &c.,
and Psal xcii. 6, “The brutish man understands not this,” and Eccles. iii. 18, “that they themselves
may know that they are but beasts.” Therefore you find the Lord often turning to beasts, to
insensible creatures, thereby to reprove the folly and madness of men, Isa. i. 2, and Jer.
viii. 7. Man hath two parts in him, by which he hath affinity to the two most distant natures,
he stands in the middle between angels and beasts. In his spirit he riseth up to an angelic
dignity, and in his body he falls down to a brutish condition. Now, which of these hath the
pre-eminency, that he is. If the spirit be indeed elevated above all sensual and earthly things,
to the life of angels, that is, to communion with God, then a man is one after the spirit,
an angel incarnate, an angel dwelling in flesh, but if his spirit throw itself down to the
service of the flesh, minding and savouring only things sensual and visible, then indeed a
man puts off humanity, and hath associated himself to beasts, to be as one of them. And indeed,
a man made thus like a beast, is worse than a beast, because he ought to be far better. It
is no disparagement to a beast to mind only the flesh, but it is the greatest abasement of
a man, that which draws him down from that higher station God hath set him into, to the lowest
station, that of beasts; and truly a Nebuchadnezzar among beasts is the greatest beast of all,
far more brutish than any beast. Now such is every man by nature,—“that which is born of the
flesh is flesh.” Every man as he comes out of the womb, is degenerated and fallen down into
this brutish estate, to mind, to savour, to relish nothing but what relates to this fleshly
or temporal being. The utmost sphere and comprehension of man, is now of no larger extent than
this visible world and this present life,—“he is blind and seeth not afar off,” 2 Pet. i. 9.
Truly, such is every man by nature, whereas the proper native sphere of the spirit’s motion
and comprehension, is as large as its endurance, that is, as long as eternity, and as broad
as to reach the infiniteness of God, the God of all spirits. Now, through the slavery and bondage
of men’s spirits to their flesh, it is contracted into as narrow bounds as this poor life in
the flesh. He that ought to look beyond time as far as eternity, and hath an immortal spirit
given for that end, is now half blind, the eye of the mind is so overclouded with lusts and
passions that it cannot see far off, not so far as to the morrow after death, not so far as
to the entry of eternity. If he saw afar off, he could not but make acquaintance with those
courtiers of heaven, which will minister an entrance into that everlasting kingdom. But truly,
while this is not your study, you have no purpose for heaven, you see nothing but what is just
before your eye, and almost toucheth it, and so you savour and mind only what you see.

Is not this then a wide difference between the children of this world, and the children of
God? Is it not very substantial? All others are circumstantial in respect of this, this only
puts a real difference in that which is best in men, viz. their spirits. The excellency of
nature is known by their affections and motions, so are these here, the spiritual man savours
spiritual things, the carnal man carnal things, everything sympathizes with that which is like
itself, and is ready to incorporate into it, things are nourished and preserved by things like
themselves. You see the swine embraces the dunghill, that stink is only a savoury smell to
them, because it is suitable to their nature. But a man hath a more excellent taste and smell,
and he savours finer and sweeter things. Truly it cannot choose but that it must be a nature
more swinish or brutish than a swine, that can relish and savour such filthy abominable works
of the flesh as abound amongst some of you. “The works of the flesh are manifest,” Gal. v.
19. And indeed they are manifest upon you, acted in the very day time, out facing the very
light of the gospel. You may read them, and see if they be not too manifest in you. Now, what
a base nature, what abominable and brutish spirits must possess men, that they apprehend a
sweetness and fragrancy in these corrupt and stinking works of the old man! O how base a scent
is it, to smell and savour nothing but this present world, and satisfaction to your senses!
Truly your scent and smell, your relish and taste, argues your base, and degenerate, and brutish
natures, that you are on the worse side of this division,—“after the flesh.” But alas! it is
not possible to persuade you that there is no sweetness, no fragrancy, nothing but corruption
and rottenness, such as comes out of sepulchres opened, in all these works of the flesh, till
once a new spirit be put in you, and your natures changed, no more than you can by eloquence
persuade a sick man, whose palate is possessed with a vitiated bitter humour, that such things
as are suitable to his vitiated taste, are indeed bitter, or make a swine to believe that the
dunghill is stinking and unpleasant. Truly it is as impossible to make the multitude of men
to apprehend, to relish or savour any bitterness or loathsomeness in the ways and courses they
follow, or any sweetness and fragrancy in the ways of godliness, till once your tastes be rectified,
your spirits be transformed and renewed.

And indeed, when once the spirit is renewed, and dispossessed of that malignant humour of corruption,
and fleshly affection, that did present all things, contrary to what they are, then it is like
a healthful and wholesome palate, that tastes all things as they are, and finds bitter, bitter,
and sweet, sweet, or like a sound eye, that beholds things just as they are, both in colour,
quantity, and distance, then the soul savours the sweet smell of the fruits of the Spirit,
ver 22: “Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, meekness, temperance,” &c. These are fragrant and
sweet to the soul, and as a sweet perfume, both to the person that hath them, and to others
round about him, and to God also. These cast a savour that allures a soul to seek them, and
being possessed of them, they cast a sweet smell abroad to all that are round about, and even
as high as heaven. A soul that hath these planted in it, and growing out of it, is as a garden
enclosed to God. These fruits are both pleasant and sweet to the soul that eats them, and as
the pleasantness of the apple allured man to taste it and sin, so the beauty and sweetness
of these fruits of the Spirit draw the spirit of a man after them. He hath found the savour,
and seen the beauty, and this allures him to taste them, and then he invites the well beloved
to come and taste also, to eat of these fruits with him. We might instance this in many things.
A Christian relishes more sweetness in temperance, in beating down his body, and bringing it
into subjection, in abstaining from fleshly lusts, than a carnal man tastes in the most exquisite
pleasures that the world can afford. A Christian savours a sweetness in meekness and long suffering,
he hath more delight in forgiving, and forbearing, and praying for them that wrong him, than
a natural man hath in the accomplishing of the most greedy desires of revenge. O what beauty
hath gentleness, goodness, and patience, in his eye! What sweetness is in the love of God to
his taste! How ravishing is the joy of the Holy Ghost! How contenting that peace that passeth
understanding! These are things of the Spirit that he minds and savours. Know, Christians,
that it is to this ye are called, to mind these things most, and to seek them most. Beware
lest the deceitfulness of sin entice you, through the treacherous and deceitful lusts that
are yet living in your members. If you indeed mind these things, and, out of the apprehension
of the beauty and savour of the sweetness and smell of the fragrancy of them, would be content
to quit all your corrupt lusts, for to be possessed of them, then you are on that blessed and
happy side of this great and fundamental division of men, you have indeed the privilege(178)
of all others who are not renewed. Whatever be your condition in the world, you are of the
Spirit, and this is better than to be rich, wise, great, and honourable. God hath not given
you such things as the world go mad after, but envy them not, he hath given you better things,
more real and substantial things, that make you far better and more excellent.

But then, this difference, as it is the widest, so it is the durablest, as it is substantial
here, so it is perpetual hereafter. When all the other differences between men shall be abolished,
this alone shall remain, and therefore you have it in the next verse, “To be carnally minded
is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.” This division that is begun here,
shall grow wider for all eternity. There shall be a greater difference after this life, and
a more sensible separation. Death and life, eternal death and eternal life, are the two sides
of this difference, as it shall shortly be stated. When all other degrees and distances of
men shall be blotted out and buried in eternal oblivion, there shall no vestige or mark remain,
of either wisdom, or riches, or honour, or such like, but all mankind shall be, as to these
outward things, levelled and equalized, this one unseen and neglected difference in the world
shall appear and shine in that day when the Lord maketh up his jewels, “then he will discern
between the righteous and the wicked, between him that feareth God, and him that feareth him
not,” Mal. iii. 18. The carnal and spiritual man have opposite affections and motions. The
spirit of the one is on a journey or walk upward, “after the Spirit,” and the spirit of the
other is on a walk downward, towards the flesh, and the further they go, the further distant
they are. The one shall be taken up to the company of the spirits of just men made perfect,
and to the fellowship of angels, the other shall be thrown down into the fellowship and society
of devils. And truly it is no wonder it fall so low, for all its motions in the body were downward,
to the fulfilling of the lusts of the flesh. Thus you see the difference will grow wider and
more sensible than it is yet between the godly and ungodly, in this world it doth not so evidently
appear as it will do afterward. As two men, that leave one another, and have their faces on
contrary arts,(179) at the beginning the distance and difference is not so great and so sensible,
but wait a little, and the further they go, the farther they are distant, and the wider their
separation is. Even so, when a Christian begins to break off his way from the common course
of the world it doth not appear to be so different from it as to convince himself and others;
but if his face be towards Jerusalem above, and his heart thitherward, certainly he will be
daily moving further from the world, till the distance be sensible both to himself and others;
he will be more and more transformed and renewed, till at length all be changed. No wonder
then, that these two cannot meet together in the end of their course, whose course was so opposite.
Though wicked men will desire to “die the death of the righteous,” yet it is no more possible
they can meet in the end, than hell and heaven can reconcile together, because they walk to
two contrary points.

Sermon XIX. It is a dream, a moment, a vapour, a flood, a flower, and whatsoever can be more
fading or perishing; and therefore it is not in itself very considerable, yet in another respect
it is of all things the most precious, and worthy of the deepest attention and most serious
consideration; and that is, because it is linked unto eternity; and there is an indissolvable
knot between them, that no power or art can break or loose. The beginning of eternity is continually
united to the end of time; and you know all the infinite extension of eternity is uniform,
it admits of no change in it from better to worse, or worse to better; and therefore the beginning
of our eternity, whether it be happiness or misery, is but one perpetuated and eternized moment,
so to speak. Seeing then we are in the body, and sent unto the world for this end, that we
may pass through into an unchangeable eternal estate; truly, of all things it is most concerning
and weighty, what way we choose to this journey’s end. Seeing the time is short, in which we
have to walk, and it is uncertain too, we ought, as the apostle Peter speaks, to “give all
diligence;” as long as the day remains, we should drive the harder, lest that eternal night
overtake us. The shortness and uncertainty of time should constrain us to take the present
opportunity, and not to let it slip over as we do; seeing it is not at all in our hand, either
what is past, or what is to come, the one cannot be recalled, the other is not in our power
to call and bring forward, therefore the present moment that God hath given us, should be catched,
held on, and redeemed, as the apostle speaks, Eph. v. 16. We should buy it at the dearest rate
of pains and expenses, from all those vain, impertinent, and trifling diversions that take
it up, that we may employ it as it becomes suitable to eternity that is posting on. And then,
as the shortness of it makes it the more precious and considerable, in regard of the end of
it,—eternity; as the scantiness of a thing increases the rate of it, so that same consideration
should make all worldly things, that are confined either in their being or use, within it,
to be inconsiderable, as Paul, (1 Cor. vii. 29-31), shows. Seeing the time is short, it remaineth,
that we should rejoice, as not rejoicing; weep, as not weeping; buy, as if we possessed not;
use the world, as not abusing it. Seeing all its worth is to be esteemed from the end of it,
eternity, never ending; then certainly whatsoever in time doth not reach that end, and hath
no connection with it, we should give it but such entertainment, as a passing bird, that is
pleasant to the eye, gets of a beholder, while it is in its flight. The shortness of the day
should make us double our diligence, and push on the harder in our walk or race, that so we
may come in time to our place of rest; and that same should make the passenger give an overly(180)
and passing look to all things that are by the way, and which he must of necessity leave behind
him. Seeing these things, then, are so important, let us draw our hearts together to consider
what the Lord speaks to us in this word; for in it you have two ways and two ends, opposite
and contrary ways and walks, and as contrary ends; the ways are, walking “after the flesh,”
and walking “after the Spirit;” the ends to which they lead, are death and life. We spoke something
of the ways, and the wide difference that is between them, what excellency is in the one beyond
the other; but truly it is hard to persuade to leave off your accustomed ways and walks, because
your inward sense and the inclination of your hearts are wholly perverted and corrupted by
nature. You know the moving faculty is subordinate in its operations unto the knowing, feeling,
and apprehending faculties: the locomotive power is given for a subsidiary and help to the
apprehensive and appetitive powers, because things are convenient and disconvenient, good or
evil, to the nature of the living creature, without it; and it could not by mere knowledge,
or desire, or hatred of things, either come into possession of them, or eschew them. Therefore
God hath given them a faculty of moving themselves to the prosecution and attainment of any
apprehended good, or to the eschewing and aversion of any conceived evil. Thus, when beasts
savour or smell that food which is fit for them, their appetite stirs them up to motion after
it to obtain it. Now, I say, if this inward sense be corrupted, then things that are destructive
will be conceived good, because they are suitable to that corrupt humour or quality that possesses
the senses; and thus all the motion and walk will be disordered. The truth is, my beloved,
our spirits and minds are infected with a poisonable humour, fleshly passions and lusts are
predominant naturally; and, as in them that are in a fever, their organs being distempered
with a bitter unsavoury humour, the pleasantest things seem unsavoury, because not suitable
to that predominant humour, even so it is with you by nature. That which puts all upon motion
is out of course, since the first distemper of man. Your spirits and minds are fleshly and
carnal; they have a strong and deep impression of all the lusts that are in the body, and are
accordingly affected; and therefore you cannot fitly judge what is good or evil for you, but
according to these, (Isa. v. 20,)—you must call evil good, and good evil; bitter sweet, and
sweet bitter, because you are already prepossessed thus. And therefore the ways of the flesh,
those paths that lead to destruction, you cannot but look on them as pleasant, because they
suit and please your corrupted sense or spirit; and so this disordered savour or smell of some
fragrant perfume in the ways of the flesh, puts you upon walking in these ways; and being thus
possessed and engaged, you cannot but stop your ears to all contrary persuasions. You think
it against your sense and reason, to tell you that these are loathsome and unsavoury, and that
the other ways of wisdom and spirit are pleasantness and peace. I say, you cannot believe this,
till your hearts and spirits lie purged, and your taste be pure and uncorrupted. It is certainly
upon this ground that our Saviour puts such characters on the way to heaven and hell, to life
and death. The one is strait and narrow, and few walk in it; the other broad and easy, and
many walk in it, Matt. vii. 13. Certainly, it is not the way in itself simply, that admits
of such a motion, to speak properly, as the thing is; the way to life, by the guiding of the
Spirit, is easiest, plainest, shortest, and broadest. It hath all the properties of a good
way, none so pleasant and plain;—how sweet and pleasant sights all the way! It is an alley
of delight,—the way of his commandments; it wants not accommodation in it to refresh the traveller.
The most delightful company is here; the Father and the Son, who sought no other company from
all eternity, but were abundantly satisfied and rejoiced in one another. This fellowship the
Christian hath to solace himself with, and he is admitted to be partaker of that joy. There
is nothing that doth disburden the soul so of care and anxiety, nothing doth rid a man of so
many perplexities and troubles, as this way. But the way of sin in itself is most laborious,
most difficult. It hath infinite by-ways that it leads a man into, and he must turn and return,
and run in a circle all the day, all his time, to satisfy the infinite lusts and insatiable
desires of sin. O how painful and laborious is it to fulfil the lusts of the flesh! How much
service doth it impose! How serious attention! What perplexing cares and tormenting thoughts!
How many sorrows and griefs are in every step of this way! Do you not perceive what drudges
and slaves sin makes you,—how much labour you have to satisfy your lusts? And you are always
to begin, as near that which you seek in the end of your years, as in the beginning. How thorny,
how miry is the way of covetousness! Are you not always out of one thorn into another, and
cut asunder, or pierced through with many sorrows?  1 Tim. vi. 10; Matt. xiii. 22. Is that
a pleasant and easy way, I pray you, that makes all your sorrow and your travail grief, and
suffers not your heart to take rest in the night? Eccl. ii. 22, 23. What pains of body! What
plotting of mind! What labour and vexation of both must a sinner have as his constant attendance
in this way! The way is intricate, deep, unpassable, that leads to that satisfaction you desire
to your lusts. Your desires are impotent and impatient, the means to carry you on are weak
and lame, nowise accommodated or fit for such a journey, and this puts you always, as it were,
on the rack, tormented between the impatience of your lusts, and the impotency of means, and
impossibility to fulfil them. Desires and disappointments, hopes and fears, divide your souls
between them. Such is the way after the flesh, an endless labyrinth of woes and miseries, of
pains and cares, ever while here.

But these ways receive such names from the common opinion and apprehension of men, because
of our flesh, which is predominant. The way after the flesh being suitable to it, though in
itself infinitely more toilsome, seems easy and plain, but the way after the Spirit seems strait,
narrow, toilsome, and laborious. Though there be infinitely more room in the way to life, because
it leads to that immense universal good, it expatiates towards the All fulness of God, yet
to the flesh how narrow and strait is it, because it cannot admit of these inordinate lusts,
that have swelled so immeasurably towards narrow and scanty things! The true latitude of the
way of the flesh is not great, for it is all enclosed within poor, lean, narrow, created objects,
but because the imagination of men supplies what is wanting really, and fancies an infinite
or boundless extent of goodness in these things, therefore the sinner walks easily, without
straitening to his flesh,—it is not pinched in this way of fleshly lusts. But, alas! the spirit
is wofully straitened, fettered, and imprisoned, though it be not sensibly bound.

What is the reason, then, that so many walk in the way to death but because their flesh finds
no straitening, no pressure in it? It is an easy way to their natures, because suitable to
the corruption that is in them, therefore men walk on without consideration of what follows.
It is like a descent or going down a hill, and so easy to our flesh. On the other hand, the
way of life, after the Spirit, is an ascent upward, and it is very difficult to our earthly
and lumpish flesh. Our spirits by communion with and subjection to the flesh, are made of an
earthly quality, near the element of the flesh, and so they bow naturally downward, but if
once they were purified and purged, and unfettered by the spirit of God and restored to their
native purity, they would more easily and willingly move upward, as you see the flame doth,
and till this be done in you, we cannot expect that you will willingly and pleasantly walk
in these pleasant walks after the Spirit; your walk will never be free and unconstrained in
the paths of godliness. You may, from some external motives and impulses, move upward for a
season, in some particular duties of religion, as a stone cast up, but as that impression is
not from an inward principle so it will not be constant and durable, but you will fall down
to your old bias in other things, and move quite contrary, when the external impression of
fear or favour, of custom or education, or such like, wears out. But the true Christian hath
a spirit within him, the root of the matter in him; this carries him upward in the ways of
obedience, after the motions and directions of God’s Spirit. At the beginning, indeed, it is
strait and uneasy to his flesh, but the difficulty is overcome if once you begin well, the
beginning (as you used to say) is the half of the whole. Truly to be well entered is half progress;
afterward the bulksome and burdensome lusts of the flesh are stript off, at least in a greater
measure, and then the spirit moves easily and willingly; this walk becomes a recreation, that
at first was a labour. Now delight and desire are as wings to mount the soul aloft. Now it
is the good pleasure of the soul to walk to all well pleasing. Indeed the way of this world
is dirty and filthy, and therefore a Christian had need to watch continually, and to gird up
his loins, that his thoughts and affections hang not down to the earth, else they will take
up much filth, and cannot but clog and burden the spirit, and make it drive heavily and slowly,
as Pharaoh did his chariots when the wheels were off. We had need to fly aloft above the ground,
and not to come down too low near it, thinking withal to double out our journey, for we shall
find, that because of the remnants of flesh within us, that this world hath a magnetical attractive
virtue to draw us down to it, if we be within the sphere of its activity. It is not good coming
near fire with flax, we should endeavour to keep our hearts at much distance, and disengage
them from our lower consolations. This world is like the pestiferous lake of Sodom, that kills
all that fly over it, and makes them fall down into it.(181) If we fly low upon the surface
of it, we cannot think but that the spiritual life will be much extinguished. But to prevent
this we should take our flight straight upward after the Spirit, (for that is the proper motion
of the more pure and spiritual part of this world), and give no rest till we be out of the
reach of that infection, till we be fully escaped the pollutions of the world.

But if you cannot be persuaded to come off this way, that seems so pleasant to your flesh,
that way which is the very course of the world, (for these are joined, Eph. ii. 2), then, I
beseech you, stand still, and consider whither it will lead, do but stop a little, and bethink
yourselves sadly and seriously whither this will take you, where it shall end. And truly that
is dreadful, the end of it is death, a never ending death. I am sure, if you were walking by
the way, and one came and told you gravely and seriously that that way is full of dangerous
pits, that there are many robbers in it waiting to cut your throat, you would count the admonition
worthy of so much notice as to halt and consider what to do, but now, when the Lord himself,
that deserves infinite more respect and credit than men, gives you warning once, and often,
day after day repeats this admonition to you, sends out many ambassadors to call you off, makes
this word to sound daily in your ears, “Oh! why will you die?” “Such ways lead down to the
chambers of death and hell,” “to be carnally-minded” in the issue “is death,” whatsoever you
may promise to yourselves, I say, when he makes a voice to accompany us in all our walkings,
this is not the way that leads to life, why do you not think it worthy of so much consideration
as once to stop and sist your progress till you examine what will come of it? Are we so credulous
to men, and shall not we believe God, who is truth itself, who affirms it so constantly, and
obtests us so earnestly? Are we so wise and prudent in lesser things, and shall we be mad,
self-willed, and refractory in the greatest things that concern us eternally? Oh! unbelief
is that which will condemn the world, the unbelief of this one thing, that the walking after,
and minding of the flesh is mortal and deadly. Though all men confess with their tongues this
to be a truth, yet it is not really believed, the deep inconsideration and slight apprehension
of this truth, makes men boldly to walk, and violently to run on, to perdition. Did you indeed
believe that eternal misery is before you at the end of this way, and would you be so cruel
to yourselves as to walk in it for any allurement that is in it? Did you really believe that
there is a precipice into utter darkness and everlasting death at the end of this alley, would
the pleasure and sweetness of it be able to infatuate you and besot you so far as to lead you
on into it, like an ox to the slaughter, and a fool to the correction of the stocks? It is
strange, indeed, though you neither will believe that death is the end of these things, nor
yet can you be persuaded that you do not believe it. There is a twofold delusion that possesses
the hearts of men; one is, a dream and fancy of escaping death though they live in sin; another
is, a dream and fancy that they do believe that death is the wages of sin; we might wonder
how they consist together if we did not find it by so many experiences. Your way proves that
you do not believe it, that death is the end of it, and then your words evidence that you do
not believe that you are unbelievers of that. O! how desperate is the wickedness, and how great
is the deceitfulness, of the heart! The false prophet that is in every man’s bosom, deceives
him that it may destroy him. As Satan is a liar and a murderer, and murders by lying, so the
heart of man is a self murderer and a self destroyer, and that is done by lying and deceiving.
There is some lie in every sin, but there is this gross, black, fundamental lie at the bottom
of all sin,—a conceit of immunity and freedom from death and hell, a strong imagination of
escaping danger, even though such a way be chosen and walked into as of its own nature inevitably
leads to destruction. And there is something of this bloody murdering flattery even in the
hearts of Christians, therefore, this apostle gives us an antidote against it, and labours
often to purge it out, by stirring up that knowledge they have received. “Know ye not that
the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God?” 1 Cor. vi. 9. Be not deceived, God is
not mocked, for what a man soweth, that shall he reap, he that soweth to the flesh shall reap
corruption &c., Gal. vi. 7, 8. O that you might listen to this word, to this watchword given
you and stop your course, at least for a season, to think what shall be the latter end! Know
you not that such shall not inherit the kingdom? Know you not that the way to heaven lies upward?
Know you not that your way lies downward towards the flesh and the earth? Are you so far demented(182)
as to think to come to heaven by walking just downward in the lusts of the flesh? Truly this
is the strongest and strangest enchantment that can be, that you think to sow one thing and
reap another thing, to sow darkness and reap light, to sow corruption and reap incorruption.
Is that possible in nature to sow nettle seed and think to reap barley or wheat? Be not deceived.
O that you would undeceive your poor deluded souls, and know that it is as natural for death
and hell to grow out of sin and walking after the flesh, as it is for every seed to yield its
own fruit and herb! Do you then think to dissolve the course and order of nature? Truly the
flesh is mortal in itself; it is ordained for corruption. You see what it turns to after the
life is out, that is an emblem of the state of the fleshly soul after death. As you did abase
your spirits to the service of the flesh here, and all your ploughing, and labouring, and sowing
was about it, the seed which you did cast in the ground was fleshly lusts, earthly things for
the satisfaction of your flesh, so you shall reap of the flesh corruption, death, and destruction
that shall make your immortal spirits mortal and corruptible, and subject them to death and
corruption with the body, as far as they are capable, it shall deprive them of all that which
is their proper life and refreshment, and separate them eternally from the fountain of blessedness,
and banish them out of heaven unto the fellowship of devils. And O, that corruption of the
incorruptible spirit is worse than the corruption of the mortal flesh, corruptio optimi pessima!

Now, whoever of you is thus far undeceived as to believe your danger and misery, and to discern
that inbred delusion of your hearts, be not discouraged utterly, there may be hope of recovery
when you see your disease. I say, if you see that hell is at the end of your way, then know
that he who sent that voice to call you off that way of death, he leaves you not to your own
wits to guide you into the right way, but he follows with a voice behind you, saying, “Here
is the way, walk in it,” turn not out of it to the right hand or left. And this voice sounds
plainly in the word, and it is nothing else but the sound of the gospel,—that blessed sound
that invites and allures you to come to Jesus Christ, “the way, truth, and life,” the true
way to the true life. All other ways, all other lives have no truth in them, it is but a cloud,
a fancy that men apprehend and lay hold on. But come to this way and it will truly lead thee
to the true life, eternal life. If you fly unto him out of the apprehension of your danger,
you have a clear way to come to God, and as plain a way to attain life and peace. Being in
Christ, you have assurance of not falling into condemnation. He is such a way as will hold
you in, and not suffer you to go out of it again to the way of death. And therefore he will
give you a Tutor, a Guider, and Director in this way to life and peace, and that is the Holy
Spirit, to lead in all truth, and to guide your feet in the way of his commandments. So that
in this new and living way of Christ, you shall have both light of the word to know where to
walk, and life of the Spirit to make you walk toward that eternal life, and thus grace and
truth are come by Jesus Christ. Indeed, you must suffer the mortification of your flesh, you
must endure the pain of the death of your lusts, the cutting off your right hand and plucking
out your right eye, which would make you offend and stumble in the way, but let the remembrance
of the life to come sweeten it all. When men undergo the hazard of losing life for a little
pleasure, when, for a poor petty advantage, men will endure so much pains and trouble. O what
should “eternal life,” and such a life as the best life here is but death to it! How should
it mitigate and sweeten the bitterness of mortification? How should it fortify our spirits
to much endurance and patience? A battle we must have, for these lusts that we disengage from
the devil, and the world besides, will lay wait for us in this way, but, when for such small
and inconsiderable advantages men will endure all the disadvantages of war, of a long war,
O how should the expectation of this peace, which encloses and comprehends all felicity, all
well being, animate and strengthen us to fight in into the city of life and peace eternal!

Sermon XX.

    Verse 7.—“Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is
    not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.”

Unbelief is that which condemns the world. It involves in more condemnation than many other
sins, not only because more universal, but especially because it shuts up men in their misery,
and secludes them from the remedy that is brought to light in the gospel. By unbelief I mean,
not only that careless neglect of Jesus Christ offered for salvation, but that which is the
root of that,—the inconsideration and ignorance of our desperate sinfulness and irremediless
misery without Christ,—which, not being laid to heart seriously, makes such slight and superficial
entertainment of a Saviour and Redeemer. Man is truly miserable and unhappy, whether he know
it or not, but truly it is an accession to his misery that he knows it not, that he neither
apprehends what he is now by nature, nor what he must shortly be made by justice. Indeed, if
there were no remedy to be found, it were a happy ignorance to be ignorant of misery, the knowledge
and remembrance of it could do nothing but add unto the bitterness of it. If a man might bury
it in eternal forgetfulness, it were some ease. But now, when God hath in his mercy so appointed
it, that the beginning of the belief of sin and misery shall, in a manner, be the end of misery,
and seeing, whether men know it or not, they must shortly be made sensible of it, when there
is no remedy to be found, then, certainly, it is the height of man’s misery that he knows and
considers it not. If we would apply our hearts at length to hear what God the Lord speaks—for
he only can give account of man to himself,—we might have a survey of both in these words and
the preceding—of our desperate wickedness, and of our intolerable misery. For the present,
by nature we are enemies to God, and shortly we must be dealt with as enemies, as rebels to
the most potent and glorious King,—be punished with death, an endless living death. Experience
shows how hard a thing it is to persuade you that you are really under the sentence of death,
you will not suffer your hearts to believe your danger, lest it interrupt your present pleasures
of sin. Nay, you will flatter yourselves with the fancied hope of immunity from this curse,
and account it a cruel and rigorous doctrine,—that so many creatures made by God should be
eternally miserable, or a sentence of it should be passed on all flesh. Now, that which makes
us hardly to believe this is the unbelief and deep inconsideration of your sinfulness, therefore,
the apostle, to make way for the former, adds, “Because the carnal mind is enmity against God.”
Do not wonder then that your ways and courses, your affections and inclinations bring forth
that ghostly and dreadful end of death, seeing all these are enmity to the greatest King, who
alone hath the power of life and death. They have a perfect contrariety to his holy nature
and righteous will. Not only is the carnal mind an enemy, but enmity itself, and therefore
it is most suitable that the sovereign power of that “King of kings,” is stretched out to the
vindication of his holiness and righteousness, by taking vengeance on all ungodliness and unrighteousness
of men. If rebellion in a state or monarchy against these petty mortal gods, who shall die
as men, be so heinous as to deserve death, by the consent of all nations, how much more shall
enmity and rebellion against the immortal eternal King, who hath absolute right and dominion
over his creatures as over the clay, have such a suitable recompense of eternal death? Now,
my beloved, if you once believed this, the enmity and opposition of your whole natures to God,
you could not but fearfully apprehend what might be the issue of it, you could not bless yourselves
as you do, and put the evil day far off, but certainly you would be affrighted with the terror
and majesty of that God you have to do with, whom, when he awakes to judgment, you can neither
resist nor escape, no standing against his wrath, and no flying from it out of his dominions,
and this would dispose and incline your minds in time to hearken to the treaty of peace, which
is holden out in the gospel, and to lay down the weapons of your enmity, and make peace with
him in his Son the Peace maker.

Amity and unity are the very being and beauty of the world. This universe is made up of innumerable
different kinds and natures, and all these climb and walk together by the bond of peace and
concord among themselves, and with that one high understanding that directs all, and supreme
will of God that moves all. It is that link of union with God, that gives and preserves being
and beauty in all the creatures, as the dependence of the ray upon the sun, or the stream upon
the fountain, makes them what they are, which being interrupted they cease to be what they
were, “all things continue as thou hast ordained them for all are thy servants,” Psal. cxix.
9. You see, then, this amity and union of subordination of the creatures to God is not dissolved
to this day, but woful and wretched man alone hath withdrawn from this subordination, and dissolved
this sacred tie of happy friendship, which at first he was lifted up unto, and privileged with.
Amity and friendship, you know, consists in an union of hearts and wills, and a communion of
all good things, it makes two one, as much as two can be, by the conspiracy of their affections
in one thing, and the joint concurrence of their endeavours to communicate to one another what
each hath, it takes away propriety,(183) and it makes a community between persons. Now, how
happy was that amity! how blessed that friendship between God and man! Though man’s goodness
could not extend to God, yet his soul united to God by love and delight, and all that God had
given him returning that to the proper owner, acknowledging his absolute dependence on him,
and claiming interest and propriety in nothing, not in himself. And then, on the other hand,
the love and good-will of the infinite God placed on man, and from that fountain all the streams
of happiness issuing forth towards man, the fulness of God opening up itself to him, and laying
out itself towards him, God so far descending, as in a manner, to become the creature’s, to
expose and dispose himself, and all in him, for poor man’s use and comfort.

How joyful was that amity! But the breaking of this bond of peace is as sad and grievous. There
was a woful interposal between God and us, which hath separated these chief friends ever since
the beginning, and that is sin, the seeds of all enmity and discord, this hath rent asunder
the bond of amity, this hath made such a total aversion of the soul from God, and imprinted
such an irreconcilable enmity in the heart against the holy will of God, that there is no possibility
to reunite them again, and restore the old friendship, as long as the soul is not quite changed
and transformed. That first creation is so marred and defaced, that there is no mending of
it till a second creation come. The carnal mind is not simply an enemy, but enmity itself;
an enemy may reconcile again, and accept terms of peace but enmity cannot reconcile to amity,
without the very destruction of itself. The opposition of the heart is so perfect, that as
soon may enmity unite with amity, and become one with it, as a carnal natural mind can submit
to God’s holy will. That which was at the beginning voluntary, is become necessary, and turned
into the nature of an inbred antipathy, that no art can cure. The fall was such a disjointing
of the soul from God, that no skill but infinite wisdom, no strength but Almighty power, can
set it right, and put it in the first posture again. It is true, there are not many who will
openly and expressly denounce war against heaven, it is not so incident,(184) that any man
should have explicit plain thoughts of hatred against God. There are some common principles
engraven by God in all men’s minds, which serve as his witnesses against men, that God should
be loved, served, adored, and worshipped, that there is nothing so worthy of the desires of
the soul. Now, this general acknowledgment deludes the most part, for they take it for granted
that they do love God with their heart, because their consciences bear witness that they ought
to love him, as if it were all one to know our duty and to do it. Who is there but he entertains
himself with this good opinion of himself, that his heart is good and true to God, for, say
you, whom should I love, if I love not God? I were not worthy to live if I love not him. It
is true indeed that you say, but if you did know your hearts you would find their faces turned
backward and averted from God, and could no more please yourselves in such a confession of
the truth, than the devil hath reason to think himself a believer, because he is convinced
that Christ is the Son of God, and confessed it too, no more than the son that promised to
go to the garden to work, and went not, had ground to think himself an obedient son, (Matt.
xxi. 30). Such a confession of duty may be extorted from damned spirits, and therefore you
would not draw this vail over the wretched wickedness of your natures, to the end that you
may conceive well of yourselves. It is so far from extenuating or excusing, that the very conviction
of the great obligation to love and obey God, is the greatest aggravation of the enmity. It
is this which makes it the purest malice and perfectest hatred, that knowing the goodness of
God, convinced of our bound duty to love and serve him, yet in the very light of such a shining
truth, to turn our hearts away from him, and exercise all acts of hostility against him. That
you may know, then, wherein the enmity of your hearts consists, I shall instance it in three
branches or evidences. There is an enmity in the understanding, that it cannot stoop to believing
of the truth, there is an enmity in the will, that it cannot subject to the obedience of God’s
holy commands, and this is extended also to a stubborn rebellion against the will of God, manifested
in the dispensations of his providence, in a word, the natural and carnal mind is incapable
of faith, of obedience, and of submission. There are many things revealed in the scripture,
that the natural man cannot receive or know, “for they are foolishness to him,” 1 Cor. ii.
14. Some spirits there are lifted up above others, either by nature or education, in which
this rebellion doth more evidently appear, reason in them contends with religion, and they
will believe no more than they can give a reason for. There is a wisdom in some men, that despiseth
the simplicity, or the inevidence(185) of the gospel, and accounts it foolishness, the carnal
mind will needs start out from implicit trusting of God, when once it is possessed with some
imagination of wisdom, therefore how many are the insurrections of men’s spirits against God’s
absolute power over the creatures, against the mysteries of the holy Trinity and incarnation,
against the resurrection of our bodies? In these, and such like, the pretended wisdom of men
hath taken liberty to act enmity, and to dispute against God. But truly, the rebellion and
insubjection against the truth of God is more generally practised, even by the multitude of
men though in an unfree, hidden way, how few do believe their own desperate wickedness, though
God hath testified it of man? Doth not every one apprehend some good to remain in his nature,
and some power to good?  What an impossibility is it to persuade you that all mankind are under
the sentence of eternal condemnation, that children, who have not done good or evil, are involved
in it also? Your hearts rise against such doctrines, as if they were bloody and cruel inventions.
To tell you that many are called and few chosen, that the most part of them who profess the
truth are walking in the way to hell, and shall undoubtedly fall into it, you may hear such
things but you bless yourselves from them, and cannot be persuaded to admit them into your
minds, the hearts of men will be giving the very lie to the God of truth, when he speaks these
things in his word, God forbid that all that be true! If we should expound the law unto you,
and show you that the least idle word, the lightest thoughts, the smallest inward motion of
the heart deserves eternal misery, that anger is murder in God’s sight, that lusting is fornication,
that covetousness and love of the world is idolatry, these things you cannot know or receive.
There are so many high imaginations in your minds, that exalt themselves against the knowledge
of God, so many thoughts that are mustered and set in battle array against the holy truths
of God, that truly no weapons of human persuasion or instruction can be able to cast down your
misapprehensions and imaginations, or reasonings of your hearts, or able to scatter these armies
of rebellious thoughts, and bring them in captivity, (2 Cor. x. 4, 5). Man’s darkened mind
is a stronghold, that all the repeated and continued beatings of the word, the multiplying
“precept upon precept and line upon line,” cannot storm it to make any true light shine into
it. It is a dungeon, a pit so shut up and enclosed, no door nor window in it, so that albeit
the Son of righteousness shine upon it, and round about it, there is no beam of that light
can enter in the hearts of many thousands. The generality are drowned as yet in a deluge of
ignorance, under the very light of daily preaching. It is a night of as thick darkness within
men’s souls, as if there were no light about us. Certainly this declares the height of enmity,
the strength of the opposition. This prison of your minds is a stronghold indeed, that is proof
of all preaching or instruction, and certainly they will hold out, till almighty power storm
them, and beat or batter open some entry in your souls to receive this shining light of the gospel.

Then, there is a rebellion of the will against God’s holy will revealed in his law or word,
it cannot be subject to the law of God. It neither is nor can, for enmity and antipathy is
sunk into its nature so, that it is the most deformed monstrous thing in the world, if the
disfigured face of man’s soul were visible, O how ugly were it! How would you loathe it! If
there were a creature that could do nothing but hate itself and sought its own destruction,
that were a hateful enough object. But self hatred and enmity is nothing so deformed and abominable,
as for the creature’s will to be set in opposition to the holy will of him that made it. It
needs not much demonstration this, if you had but a little more consideration. Look back upon
the tenor of your ways, set them beside the will and commands of God, and what find you? Whether
agreement or disagreement? Take a view of the current of your inclinations and affections,
and compare that with the holy will of God, and what find you? Friendship or enmity? You cannot
digest the reproach of that, to be called enemies to God, but I pray you consider if there
be not as perfect contrariety in your desires, affections, inclinations, and actions to the
will of God as if you did profess it. What would you do if you professed yourselves enemies
to God? Could you possibly vent your enmity any other way than this, in withdrawing from the
yoke of his obedience, in revolting from that allegiance you owe to him? You could wrong him
no further than by setting your hearts and ways contrary to his heart and ways in loving what
he hates and hating what he loves. For his own blessed being you could not impair it. Now,
consider if that be not acted as really as if you did profess it. Can you say that cursing,
swearing, lying, railing, anger, strife, envy, revenge, and such like works of darkness, are
the things which his soul loves? Are these suitable to his holy will? And yet these are your
inveterate customs, to which your natures are so inured and habituated, that you can no more
forsake them than hate yourselves. Are filthiness, drunkenness, Sabbath breaking, covetousness
and love of the world, are these his delight? And yet these are your delight. Again is it not
his will that ye should purge yourselves from all filthiness of flesh and spirit, and perfect
holiness? Is not righteousness that which he loves, and truth in the inward parts? Doth not
he look to a contrite heart, and account that a savoury sacrifice? Is it not his royal statute
and commandment, of which not one jot shall fail, that ye should deny yourselves, love your
enemies, forgive them that offend you, sanctify his name always in your hearts, and especially
on the holy Sabbath, that ye should watch unto prayer, be sober in the use of the world, be
much in watching for his second coming?  Now, what repugnance is in your hearts and ways to
all these? Do not the conversations of men display a banner against the gospel, and proclaim
as much in reality as is said in words in Psal. ii., “Let us cast his cords behind us, and
cut his bands.” These things are unsavoury unto you, you smell nothing pleasant in them, but
only in the puddle of the world, in running at random, at your own liberty, after your own
imaginations, that you account only liberty. O when shall your hearts be subdued, and your
affections brought in captivity to the obedience of Christ! When shall you be delivered up
to the truth, and so made to obey from the heart that form of doctrine and sound words, Rom.
vi. 17. This is the strongest hold that Satan hath in man’s heart,—his will and affections,
and this keeps out longest against Jesus Christ, till he that is stronger come and bind the
strong man, and cast out the enmity, and make all captive to his loving obedience, and willing
subjection, 2 Cor. x. 4, 5.

Then, thirdly, the enmity of the soul of man is acted in his rebellion against the will of
God manifested in his works, in his unsubjection and unsubmissive disposition towards the good
pleasure of the Lord, in carving out such and such a lot in the world. It is certain, that
as the will of God is the supreme rule of righteousness, so it is the sovereign cause and fountain
of all things and therefore, how infinitely is the creature bound to be subject to him as a
Lawgiver, by pleasant and willing obedience to his righteous and reasonable commands, and to
submit to him as the absolute Ruler, by quiet and humble condescendence, to all the dispensations
of his providence! Now, you know,—if you know any thing of yourselves,—how cross and opposite
these hearts of yours are to his good pleasure, how they are set just contrary. And whence
flow all murmurings, grudgings, discontents, griefs, cares, and perplexities of men, but from
this fountain, the rebellion of the heart against God? There is nothing in all the creation
mutinous and malcontent, but the heart of man. You see frequent examples of it, in the murmurations
of the people in the wilderness. It is frequently styled, a tempting of the Lord, (Exod. xvii.
2,) importing a high provocation of his holy Majesty, a special incitement, as it were, and
motive to declare his absolute power and righteousness against such, and therefore these are
often conjoined, Psal. lxxviii. 17, 18, “They sinned yet more, by provoking the most High,—and
they tempted God in their hearts” and it is added, verse 19, “Yea, they spake against God.”
Wherein you may observe a gradation of aggravations of this enmity. When men have already deserved
infinite punishment at his hand, and may always look within, and find an answer to all the
murmurings of their hearts, as having sinned so often against him, yet then, to rise up against
his good pleasure, and after we have so often sinned, to repine at any thing coming from him.
And this, certainly, is a high provocation of the most high God; it puts a kind of necessity
upon him, to inflict that which thou indeed deservest, and then, this inward heart burning
against God,—it breaks out often in words, against that most high and holy One, so ver. 40,
41, and ver. 56, 57 Provoking, which is the plain expression of murmuring, in the margin is
rendered, rebelling against him, and so in ver 8, when a short account is given of them, when
the character or anagram of such a people is expressed, it is set down thus, “a stubborn and
rebellious generation.” Therefore Paul, considering this woful and wretched posture of the
soul, set in opposition to the always blessed will of God, and the madness and folly of it,
he exhorts us, “Neither murmur ye, as some of them murmured and were destroyed of the destroyer,
for these things happened for ensamples,” &c., 1 Cor. x. 10, 11. Truly, there is nothing more
deformed and vile in itself, or more disquieting and tormenting to the soul, or more dangerous
in the consequences of it, than such a posture of spirit, a discontented humour against God’s
providence whether it be in withholding that good thing from us which we desire, or sending
that which crosseth our humour, whether sickness, or want, or reproach, or disrespect, whatsoever
it be that the heart is naturally carried to pursue or eschew. What more abominable and ugly
visage, than the countenance of an angry and furious person? But when this is against God,
it adds infinitely to the deformity and vileness of it. “I do well to be angry,” is the motto
of a discontented soul. It elects an imaginary sovereignty against true Sovereignty, it sets
up an anti providence, it establisheth another divine power and wisdom, and brings the majesty,
highness, and holiness of God down to be tread upon by the creature. And then it is its own
tormentor, a sin that needs no punishment but itself the insurrection and mutiny of the heart
against God’s will, sets all the powers of the soul out of course, vexes pains, and disquiets
all. There is no peace and tranquillity but in the complacency of the heart with God’s heart,
as Ephraim was like a bullock unaccustomed with the yoke, (Jer. xxxi. 18 ) the more he fretted
and spurned at his yoke, the more it galled him, and grieved him, till he was instructed, and
then he was eased. This fills the soul with hideous tormenting thoughts, and cares; this feeds
upon its own marrow, and consumes it—as some have made the emblem of envy,—which is a particular
kind of this enmity, as if you would imagine a creature that did waste and consume all its
moisture, and marrow, and feed upon the destruction of itself. Now this is but the prelude
of what follows, this self-punishment is a messenger to tell what is coming, that the most
high God is engaged in his power against such a person, and shall vent his displeasure to their
eternal displeasure. That is the fruit of this enmity.

Sermon XXI. 12. “The heart is deceitful above all things,” as well as “desperately wicked,”
two things superlative and excessive in it, bordering upon an infiniteness, such as sin is
capable of, wickedness and deceitfulness! And indeed, that which makes the wicked heart desperately
and hopelessly so, is the deceitfulness of it.  There are many specious coverings gotten to
palliate this wickedness and enmity, and so many invisible and spiritual wickednesses in the
heart, that it is no wonder that they lurk and dwell without observation.  Sin is either covered
with some deceivable pretext of another thing, or altogether escapes the dim eyes of men, because
of its subtile and spiritual nature.  Both are in this business: the enmity of man’s heart
against God is so subtile a thing in many, and it is shrouded over with some other pretences
in all, that few get the lively discovery and sense of it.  It is true, it is very gross and
palpable in the most part of men,—visible, I mean, upon them, though not to themselves.  Any,
whose eyes are opened, may behold the black visage of rebellion in the most part of the actings
and courses of men, as the apostle, (Gal. v.) speaks “the works of the flesh are manifest.”
Truly this enmity against God is too manifest in most part, the weapons of your warfare against
God being so carnal and visible, your opposition to his holy will and ways being so palpable.
There is an enmity acted by many in the tenor of their conversation, without God in the world,
and against God, as appears in all your inveterate and godless customs of lying, swearing,
cursing, drunkenness, railing, Sabbath breaking, neglect of prayer, and such like, which carry
in their fore brow this inscription, “against the known God,” opposite to that of the Athenians
altar. The God whom you pretend to know and worship,—his name is every day blasphemed, his
word slighted, his will disobeyed, as if you had proclaimed war against him. But there is in
some (and I fear a great many) not only an acted but an affected enmity too, enmity rising
up to the maturity and ripeness of malignity and hatred of the image of God, in all his children.
Some are not willing to go to heaven, yet they do not disturb others in their journey, they
can let others be religious about them, and rawly(186) desire to be like them, but others there
are, who will neither enter into heaven themselves, nor let others enter, as Christ speaks
of the Pharisees, Matt. xxiii. 13.  They hate the light of another’s conversation, because
their own deeds are evil, and are reproved and condemned by it.  It is said, Rev. xi. 10, the
witnesses tormented them that dwelt on the earth.  It is strange what a torment it is to the
world that the godly are in it! Piety is an eyesore to many, if they could extirpate all that
bears that image, they would think it sweet as bread, Psal. xiv.  This is a more open and declared
enmity against the God of heaven, and yet I know it lurks under the mask of some other thing.
You pretend to hate hypocrisy only, alas! what a scorn is it for profanity to hate hypocrisy?
Sure it is not because it is a sin but for the very shadow of piety it carries.  You hate the
thing itself so perfectly, that you cannot endure the very picture of it.  Do not deceive yourselves,
the true quarrel is because they run not to the same excess of riot with you.  If they will
lie, cozen, defraud, swear, and blaspheme as other men, you could endure to make them companions,
as you do others, and the principle of that is, the enmity that was placed in the beginning,
that mortal irreconcilable feud, betwixt the two families, are two seeds of Christ and Satan.

But as I told you, this enmity acts in a more subtile and invisible way in some, and it is
painted over with some fair colours to hide the deformity of it.  Not only the grosser corruptions
of men carry this stamp, but take even the most refined piece or part in man, take his mind,
take the excellency of his mind, even the wisdom of it, yet that hath enmity incorporated into
it, and mixed with it throughout all, for the wisdom of the flesh is enmity with God, as it
may be read, φρονημα, the very prudence and reason of a natural man, which carries him to a
distance from, and opposition with, the common defilements in the courses of men, yet that
hath in its bosom a more exquisite and refined enmity against God, and so the more spiritual
and purified it be from grosser corruptions, it is the more active and powerful against God,
because it is, as it were, the very spirit and quintessence of enmity.  You see it, 1 Cor i.,
how the wisdom of God is foolishness to the wisdom of the world, and then again, that the wisdom
of the world is the greatest folly to the only wise God.  Men, that have many natural advantages
beyond others, are at this great disadvantage, they are more ready to despise godliness, as
too base and simple a thing to adorn their natures, as Christ said of rich men, it may be said
of wise men, of learned men, of civil and blameless persons who have a smooth carriage before
the world, how hard is it for such to enter into the kingdom of heaven? Hard indeed! for they
must be stripped naked of that, ere they can enter through this narrow gate, I mean, the opinion
and conceit, of any worth or excellency, and so diminished in their own eyes, that they may
go through this needle s eye without crushing.

The stream of enmity runs under ground often, and so hides itself under some other notion,
till at length it burst forth openly.  I find it commonly runs in the secret channel of amity
or friendship to some other thing opposite to God.  So James iv. 4, The amity of the world
is enmity with God, and 1 John ii. 15, He that loveth the world, the love of the Father is
not in him.  There are two dark and under ground conduits, to convey this enmity against God,—amity
to the world, and amity to ourselves, self love, and creature-love.  We cannot denounce war
openly against heaven, but this is the next course, to join to, or associate with, any party
that is contrary to God, and thus, under the covert of friendship to ourselves, and love to
the world, we war against God, and destroy our own souls. I say, first, amity to the world
carries enmity to God in the bosom of it, and if you believe not this, hear the apostles sharp
and pungent question, you adulterers and adulteresses, know you not that the amity of the world
is enmity with God? He doth not speak only to persons guilty of that crime, but to all natural
men, who are guilty of adultery or whoredom of a more spiritual nature, but as abominable and
more dangerous. There is a bond and special tie betwixt all men and God their Maker, which
obligeth them to consecrate and devote themselves, their affections and endeavours, to his
honour, especially when the covenant of the gospel is superadded unto that, in which Jesus
Christ our Lord reveals himself, as having only right to us and our affections, as willing
to bestow himself upon us, and notwithstanding of all the distance between him and wretched
sinners, yet filling it up with his infinite love and wonderful condescendency, demitting himself
to the form of a servant, out of love, that so he might take us up to be his chaste spouse,
and adorn us with his beauty. This he challengeth of us, whoever hear and profess the gospel,
this is your profession—if ye understand it—that Jesus Christ shall be your well-beloved, and
ye his, that ye shall separate yourself to him, and admit no stranger in his place, that the
choice and marrow of your joy, love and delight, shall be bestowed on him.  Now, this bond
and tie of a professed relation to that glorious husband, is foully broken by the most part,
by espousing their affections to this base world. Your hearts are carried off him unto strangers,
that is, present perishing things whereas the intendment of the gospel is, to present you to
Christ as pure virgins, 2 Cor. xi. 2. Truly your hearts are gone a whoring after other things,
the love of the world hath withdrawn you, or kept you in chains, these present things are as
snares, nets, and bands, as an harlot’s hands and heart, Eccl. vii. 26.  They are powerful
enchantments over you, which bewitch you to a base love, from an honourable and glorious love.
O that you would consider it, my beloved, what opposition here is betwixt the love of the world
and the love of the Father, betwixt amity to that which hath nothing in it, but some present
bait to your deceitful lusts, and amity to God, your only lawful Husband! Affection is a transforming
and conforming thing, Si terram amas terra es,(187) the love of God will purify thy heart,
and lift it up to more similitude to him whom thou lovest, but the love of the world assimilates
it unto the world, makes it such a base and ignoble piece, as the earth is. Do you think marriage
affection can be parted? “My well beloved is mine,” therefore the church is the turtle, the
dove to Christ, of wonderful chastity, it never joins but to one, and after the death of its
marrow, it sighs and mourns ever after, and sits solitarily. You must retire, my beloved, and
disengage from the love of other things, or you cannot love Christ, and if you love not Christ,
you cannot have peace with the Father, and if you have not that peace, you cannot have life.
This is the chain of life, the first link begins at the divorcement of all former loves and
beloved idols once the soul must be loosed in desire and delight, and that link must be fastened
upon the most lovely and desirable object Christ, the Desire of the nations, and this draws
along another link of peace and life with it. Do not mistake it, religion would not hinder
or prejudice your lawful business in this world. O, it were the most compendious way to advance
it with more ease to your souls! But certainly it will teach you to exchange the love of these
things for a better and more heart contenting love.

Then amity to ourselves is enmity to God, and truly this is the last stronghold that holds
out longest against God, when others may be beaten down or surrendered. Possibly a man may
attain to this, to despise these lower things, as below his natural dignity and the excellency
of his spirit. Some may renounce much of that friendship with worldly and temporal things,
as being sordid and base, but the enmity gets into this strong and invisible tower of darkness,
self love and pride and therefore the apostle John makes this the last and chiefest, the pride
of life, 1 John ii. 16. When the lusts of the eyes and flesh are in some measure abated this
is but growing, and what decreaseth of these, seems to accresce(188) unto this, as if self
love and pride did feed and nourish itself upon the ashes or consumption of other vices. Yea,
it draws sap from graces and virtues, and grows thereby, till at length it kill that which
nourished it, and indeed the apostle James seems to proceed to this, ver 5, 6 when he minds
us that God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. “Doth the scripture say this
in vain?” saith he. Is not self amity as well enmity as the amity of the world? And therefore
God opposes himself unto it, as the very grand enmity. Self is the great lord, the arch rebel,
the head of all opposition, that in which they do all centre, and when all the inferior soldiers
are captives, or killed this is last in the field, it lives first in opposition and dies last,
primum vivens et ultimum moriens. When a man is separated from many things, yet he may be but
more conjoined to himself, and so the further disjoined from God. Of all these vile rags of
the old man, this is nearest the skin, and last put off, of all the members, self is the heart,
first alive, and last alive. When enmity is constrained to render up the outward members of
the body, to yield them to a more smooth and fair carriage to a civil behaviour, when the mind
itself is forced to yield unto some light of truth and knowledge of the gospel, yet the enmity
retires into the heart, and fortifies it the stronger, by self love and self estimation, as
in winter the encompassing cold makes the heat to combine itself together in the bowels of
the earth, and by this means the springs are hotter than in summer, so the surrounding light
of the gospel, or education, or natural honesty, drives the heat and strength of enmity inward,
where it fortifies itself more. This is that accursed antiperistasis(189) that is made by the
concurrence of some advantages of knowledge and civility, and such like.

The blood of enmity against God gets in about the heart, when it is chased for fear out of
the outward man, therefore, the very first and fundamental principle of Christianity, is, “Let
a man deny himself, and so he shall be my disciple.” He must become a fool in his own eyes,
though he be wise, that he may be wise (1 Cor. iii. 18), he must become as ungodly, though
godly, that he may be justified by faith (Rom. iv. 5), he must forsake himself, that he may
indeed find himself, or get a better self in another, he must not eat much honey, that is not
good, it would swell him though it be pleasant, he must not search his own glory, or reflect
much upon it, if he would be a follower and a friend of Christ. Look, how much soever you engage
to yourselves esteem, or desire to be esteemed of others, to reflect with complacency on yourselves,
to mind your own satisfaction and estimation in what you do, so much you disengage from Jesus
Christ, for these are contrary points. This is a direct motion towards Christ. That is an inverse
and backward motion towards ourselves, and so much as we move that way, we promove not, but
lose our way, and are further from the true end. Ezekiel’s living creatures may be an emblem
of a Christian’s motion, he returns not as he goes, he makes a straight line to God, whithersoever
he turn him, but nature makes all crooked lines, they seem to go forth in obedience to God,
but they have a secret unseen reflexion into its own bosom. And this is the greatest act of
enmity, to idolize God, and deify ourselves, we make him a cypher and sacrifice to ourselves
his peculiar, incommunicable property of Alpha and Omega, that we do sacrilegiously attribute
to ourselves, the beginning of our notions, and end of them too. This is the crooked line,
that nature cannot possibly move out of, till a higher Spirit come and restore her that halted,
and make plain her paths.

That which is added, as a reason, explains this enmity more clearly, because it cannot be subject,
&c. Truly these two forementioned amities of the world and of ourselves, do withdraw men wholly
from the orderly subjection that they owe to the law of God. Order is the beauty of every thing,
of nature, of art, of the whole universe, and of the several parts, kingdoms and republics
of it. This indeed is the very beauty of the world, all things subordinate to him that made
them, only miserable man hath broken this order, and marred this beauty, and he cannot be subject
ουχ υποτασσιτα cannot come again into that orderly station and subordination he was once into.
This is the only gap or breach of the creation. And it is some other engagements that draw
him thus far out of course—the base love of the world, and the inordinate love of himself.
O these make his neck stiff, that it cannot bow to the yoke of obedience, these have opposite
and contrary commands, and no man can serve two masters. When the commands of the great lord,
self, come in opposition with the commands of God, then he cannot be subject to the law of
God. For a time, in some things he may resemble a subjection, when the will of self and the
will of God commands in one point, as sometimes they do by accident, but that is neither frequent
nor constant.

Not only is he not subject, but there is worse in it, he cannot be subject to the law of God.
This is certainly to throw down the natural pride of man, that always apprehends some remanent
ability in himself. You think still to make yourselves better, and when convinced or challenged
for sins, to make amends and reform your lives. You use to promise these things as lightly
and easily as if they were wholly in your power, and as if you did only delay them for advantage,
and truly it seems this principle of self sufficiency is engraven on men’s hearts when they
procrastinate and delay repentance and earnest minding of religion to some other fitter season,
as if it were in their liberty to apply to it when they please, and when you are urged and
persuaded to some reformation, you take in hand, even as that people, Jer. xlii. 6, 20, who
said, “all that the lord hath said we will do.” You can strike hands, and engage to serve the
Lord, as easily as that people in Joshua xxiv. 18, 19. But we may say, Oh, that there were
such a heart in you! But, alas, such a heart is not in you! You cannot serve the Lord, for
he is holy and jealous, and ye are not only weak, but wicked. I beseech you then, believe this
one testimony that God hath given of man, even the choicest thing in man, the very wisdom of
a natural man, it is not subject to God’s law, and it cannot be better, neither can it be subject.
Resolution, industry, vows, and covenants will not effect this, till the Most High break and
bow the heart. And not only has this enmity against the old law of commandments an antipathy
at them, as crossing our lust, but even against the new and living law of the Spirit of life
in Christ.

Here is your misery, you can neither be subject to the law as commanding to obey it, or threatening
for disobedience to it, nor to the gospel as promising to believe and receive it. The law commands,
but your law countermands within; the law threatens and sentences you with condemnation, but
you have some self-pleasing delusion and dream in your heads, and bless yourselves in your
own hearts, even though ye walk in the imagination of your hearts, contrary to the law, Deut.
xxix. It is strange that you do not fore-apprehend and fear hell! But it is this delusion possesses
the heart, “you shall not die:” it was the first act of enmity, not only the transgression
of the command, hut unbelief of the truth of the curse: and that which first encouraged man
to sin, encourages you all to lie into it, and continue in it,—a fancy of escaping wrath. This
noise fills the heart; Satan whispers in the ear, Go on, you shall not die. Thus it appears,
that the natural mind cannot be subject to the law of God, no persuasion, no instruction, can
enforce this belief of your damnable condition upon you.

But then, when the enmity is beaten out of this fort, and a soul is really convinced of its
desperate and lost estate, when the heart is brought down to subjection, to take with that
dreadful sentence; yet there is another tower of enmity in the heart, that can keep out against
the weapons of the gospel, such as Paul mentions, Rom. x. 3. Being ignorant of the righteousness
of God, they went about to establish their own, and could not submit to the righteousness of
God. There is a natural pride and stiffness of heart, that we cannot endure but to have something
in ourselves to rest on, and take pleasure into: and when a soul sees nothing, it rather vexes
and torments itself as grieving because it hath no ornament or covering of its own, nor rejoiceth
and delighteth in that righteousness of God revealed in Christ. O the difficulty to bow down
so low, as to put on another’s righteousness over our nakedness! And should it be called submission?
Is it not rather the elevating and exalting of the soul? Yet in respect of our natural posture
of spirit, it is a matter of great difficulty to make a self-condemned sinner submit to this,
to be saved freely, without money or price, by another’s ransom. What empty, vain, and frivolous
expiations and satisfactions will souls invent, rather than trust all to this! How long will
poor souls wander abroad from hill to mountain, seeking some inherent qualification, to commend
them, and leave this garden and paradise of delights, which is opened up in Christ? Souls look
everywhere for help, till all hands fail; and then necessity constrains them to come hither;
but indeed, when necessity brings in, charity and amity keeps in, when once they know what
entertainment is in Christ. As for you, who as yet have not stooped to the sentence of wrath,
how will you submit to the righteousness of God? But I wonder how you imagine this to be so
easy a thing to believe. You say you did always believe in Christ, and that your hearts are
still on him, and that you do it night and day. Now, there needs no other argument to persuade
that you do not at all believe in the gospel, who have apprehended no more difficulty in it,
no more contrariety to your rebellious natures in it. Let this one word go home with you, and
convince you of your unbelief, “The natural mind is not subject to the law of God, neither
indeed can be.” How, then, do you come so easily by it? Certainly it must be feigned and counterfeit.

Sermon XXII.

    Verse 8.—“So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.”

It is a kind of happiness to men, to please them upon whom they depend, and upon whose favour
their well-being hangs. It is the servant’s happiness to please his master, the courtier’s
to please his prince; and so generally, whosoever they be that are joined in mutual relations,
and depend one upon another; that which makes all pleasant, is this, to please one another.
Now, certainly, all the dependencies of creatures one upon another, are but shadows unto the
absolute dependence of creatures upon the Creator, for in him we live, and move, and have our
being: the dependence of the ray upon the sun, of the stream upon the fountain, is one of the
greatest in nature; but all creatures have a more necessary connexion with this Fountain-being,
both in their being and well-being; they are nothing but a flux and emanation of his power
and pleasure, and, as the Psalmist expresseth it, He hides his face and they are troubled;
he takes away their breath, and they die, and return to their dust: He sends forth his Spirit,
and they are created, and he renews the face of the earth, Psal. civ. 29, 30. You may extend
this to the being and well-being, the happiness and misery of creatures; our souls which animate
our bodies are but his breath which he breathed into the dust, and can retract when he pleaseth;
the life of our souls, the peace, and tranquillity, and satisfaction is another breathing of
his Spirit, and another look of his countenance; and as he pleases to withdraw it, or interpose
between his face and us, so we live or die, are blessed or miserable. Our being or well-being
hath a more indispensable dependence on him, than the image in the glass hath upon the living face.

If it be so then, certainly of all things in the world it concerns us nearest how to please
him, and to be at peace with him. If we be in good terms with him in whose hands our breath
is, and whose are all our ways, (Dan. v. 23.) upon whose countenance our misery or felicity
hangs, then certainly we are happy. If we please him, it matters not whom we displease; for
he alone hath absolute, uncontrolled, and universal power over us, as our Saviour speaks, over
both soul and body. We may expect that his good pleasure towards us will not be satisfied,
but in communicating his fulness, and manifesting his favour to us, especially since the goodness
of God is so exundant,(190) as to overflow even to the wicked world, and vent itself as out
of super-abundance, in a river of goodness throughout the whole earth. How much more will it
run abundantly towards them whom he is well pleased with. And therefore the Psalmist cries
out, as being already full in the very hope and expectation of it, that he would burst, if
he had not the vent of admiration and praise, O how great is his goodness, and how excellent
his loving-kindness laid up for them that fear him! Psal. xxxii 19. and xxxvi. 7. But, on the
other hand, how incomparable is the misery of them who cannot please God! even though they
did both please themselves and all others for the present. To be at odds with him in whom alone
they can subsist, and without whose favour is nothing but wretchedness and misery, O that must
be the worst and most cursed estate imaginable: to be in such a state, as do what they can,
they cannot please him, whom alone to please is of only concernment, what can be invented(191)
to that? Now, if you ask who they are that are such? These words speak it plainly, in way of
inference from the former doctrine, “So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.”
Not they in whom there is flesh; for there are remnants of that in the most spiritual man in
this life: we cannot attain here to angelic purity, though it should be the aim and endeavour
of every Christian. But they that are in the flesh, or after the flesh, imports the predomination
of that, and an universal thraldom of nature unto it, which indeed is the state of all men
that are but once born, till a second birth come, by the Spirit of Jesus Christ.

The ground of this may be taken from the foregoing discourse, and it is chiefly twofold. One
is, because they are not in Jesus Christ, in whom his soul is well pleased; another is, because
they cannot suit and frame their carriage according to his pleasure. Since all mankind hath
fallen under the displeasure of the most high God, by sinning against him, in preferring the
pleasure of the flesh, and the pleasure of Satan, to the pleasure of God, there can be no atonement
found to pacify him, no sacrifice to appease him, no ransom to satisfy his justice, but that
one perfect offering for sin, Jesus Christ, the propitiation for the sins of the elect world.
This the Father accepts in the name of sinners; and in testimony of his acceptance, he did
two several times, by a voice from heaven, declare, first to a multitude, (Matth. iii. 17.)
and then to the beloved disciples, (Matth. xvii. 5.) and both times with great majesty and
solemnity (as did become him), that this is his well-beloved Son, in whom his soul is well-pleased.
It pleased God to make the stream of his love to take another channel after man’s sin, and
not to run immediately towards wretched man, but he turned the current of his love another
way, to his own Son, whom he chose for that end, to reconcile man, and bring him into favor,
and his love going about, by that compass, comes in the issue towards poor sinners with the
greater force. He hath appointed Christ the meeting place with sinners, the Daysman to lay
his hand on both, and therefore he is God to lay his hand on God, and man to lay his hand on
man, and bring both into a peaceable and amiable conjunction. Now then, whoever are not in
Jesus Christ, as is spoken, certainly they cannot please God do what they can, because God
hath made Christ the centre in which he would have the good pleasure of sinners meeting with
his good pleasure, and therefore, without faith it is impossible to please God, (Heb. xi. 6)
not so much for the excellency of the act itself, as for the well pleasing object of it, Christ.
The love of the Father is terminate in him, his justice is satisfied in him, his love is well-pleased
with the excellency of his person, he finds in him an object of delight, which is nowhere else,
and his justice is well pleased with the sufficiency and worthiness of his ransom, and without
this compass, there is neither satisfaction to the one, nor to the other, so then, whatsoever
you are, how high soever your degree in the world, how sweet soever your disposition let your
natures be never so good, your carriage never so smooth, yet certainly there is nothing in
all this that can please God, either by an object of love, or a price for justice. You are
under that eternal displeasure, which will fall on and crush you to pieces. Mountains will
not be so heavy, as it will appear in that great day of his wrath (Rev. vi.). I say, you cannot
come from under that imminent weight of eternal wrath unless you be found in Jesus Christ,—that
blessed place of immunity and refuge—if you have not forsaken yourselves and your own natures,
and denied your own righteousness as dung, to be found in him, clothed with his righteousness
and satisfaction. If the delight and pleasure of your soul do not coincide and fall in at one
place with the delight and good pleasure of the Father, that is, upon his well beloved Son,
certainly the pleasure and good will of God hath not as yet fallen upon you, and met with you;
therefore, if you would please God, be pleased with Christ, and you cannot do him a greater
pleasure than believe in him, (John v. 23) that is, absolutely resign yourselves unto him,
for salvation and sanctification.

The other ground is,—Such as are in the flesh cannot frame their spirits, affections, and ways
to God’s good pleasure, for their very wisdom, the very excellency that is in them, is enmity
to God and cannot be subject to his law, and therefore they cannot please him. I am sure you
may easily reflect upon yourselves, and find, not with much search, but upon all these, as
the prophet (Jer. ii. 34) speaks, that it is not the study and business you have undertaken
to please God, but the bent and main of your aims and endeavours is to please yourselves, or
to please men. This makes many men’s pains, even in religion displeasing to God, because they
do not indeed mind his pleasure, but their own or other’s satisfaction. What they do, is but
to conform to the custom of the time, or commandments of men, or their own humour, and all
this must needs be abominable to God. Truly, that which is in great account among men, is an
abomination to God, as our Saviour speaks of the very righteousness and professed piety of
the Pharisees, Luke xvi. 15, the more you please yourselves and the world, the further you
are from pleasing God. The very beginning of pleasing God is when a soul falls in displeasure
at itself, and abhorrence of his own loathsomeness, therefore it is said, The humble and contrite
spirit I will look unto, and dwell with him, and such sacrifices do please God, Isa. lxvi.
2, Psal. li. 17. For the truth is, God never begins to be pleasant and lovely to a soul till
it begins to fall out of love with itself, and grow loathsome in its own eyes. Therefore you
may conclude this of yourselves, that with many of you God is not well-pleased, although you
be all baptized unto Christ, and do all eat of that same spiritual meat, and drink of that
same spiritual drink, though you have all church privileges, yet with many of you God is not
well pleased, as 1 Cor. x. 2-5, not only because those works of the flesh that are directly
opposite to his own known will, such as fornication, murmuring, grudging at God’s dispensation,
cursing and swearing, lying, drunkenness, anger, malice, strife, variance, and such like, abound
as much among you as that old people, but even those of you that may be free from gross opposition
to his holy will, your nature hath the seed of all that enmity, and you act enmity in a more
covered way; you are so well pleased with yourselves, your chief study is to please men, you
have not given yourselves to this study, to conform yourselves to the pleasure of God, therefore
know your dreadful condition, you cannot please God, without whose favour and pleasure you
cannot but be eternally displeased and tormented in yourselves. Certainly, though now you please
yourselves, yet the day shall come that you shall be contrary to yourselves and all to you,
as it is spoken as a punishment of the Jews, (1 Thess. ii. 15) and there is some earnest of
in this life. Many wicked persons are set contrary to themselves, and all to them, they are
like Esau their hand against all, and all men’s hands against them, yea, their own consciences
continually vexing them. This is a fruit of that fundamental discord and enmity between men
and God, and if you find it not now, you shall find it hereafter.

But as for you that are in Jesus Christ, who being displeased with yourselves, have fled into
the well beloved, in whom the Father is well pleased, to escape God’s displeasure, I say unto
such, your persons God is well pleased with in Christ and this shall make way and place for
acceptance to your weak and imperfect performances. This is the ground of your peace and acceptance,
and you would take it so, and it shall yield you much peace, when you cannot be pleased with
yourselves. This is that to which you are called, to such a work as may please him, to conform
yourselves even to his pleasure and will. If you love him, you cannot but fashion yourselves
so as he may be pleased. O how exact and observant is love of that which may ingratiate itself
in the beloved’s favour! It is the most studious thing to please, and most afraid of displeasing.
Enoch had a large and honourable testimony, as ever was given to man, that he pleased God,
Heb. xi. 5. I beseech you be ambitious of this after a holy manner, labour to know his will,
and that for this end, that you may approve it and prove it that you may do that good and acceptable
will of God. Let his pleasure be your rule, your law, to which all within you may conform itself.
Though you cannot attain an exact correspondence with his pleasure, but in many things you
will offend, yet certainly this will be the resolved study of your hearts how to please him,
and in as far as you cannot please him, you will be displeased with yourselves. But then, I
would advise you, in as far as you are displeased with yourselves for not pleasing God, be
as much well pleased with Christ, the pleasing sacrifice and atonement, and this shall please
God as much as your obedience could do, or your disobedience can displease him. To him be praise
and glory.

Sermon XXIII.

    Verse 9.—“But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be
    that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now, if any man have not the
    Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.”

Application is the very life of the word, at least it is a necessary condition for the living
operation of it. The application of the word to the hearts of hearers by preaching, and the
application of your hearts again to the word by meditation, these two meeting together, and
striking one upon another, will yield fire. Now indeed the right application of the word to
souls is the difficultest part of preaching, and it is the hardest point of hearing, in which
there needs both much affection and much direction, the one to be serious and ernest in it,
the other to be wise and prudent in it. Without suitable affection, it will not pass into the
substance of the soul to feed it, no more than the stomach can digest meat, that wants convenient
heat, and without discretion and wisdom, to choose our own portion, it will not yield convenient
food, but increase humours and superfluities, or distemper our spirits. That which I look at
in these words, is the discretion and prudence of this wise steward in God’s house, after he
hath represented the wretched and woful estate of them that are in the flesh, how their natures
cannot but are enmity against God, how their end is death and destruction, he subjoins in due
season a suitable encouragement to believers, “You are not in the flesh,” &c. Because there
is no man so sensible of that corruption that dwells within, as he that is in part renewed,
as pain to a healthful body is most sensible, and as the abundance of light makes a larger
discovery of what is disordered and defiled in the house, therefore such, upon the hearing
of the accursed estate of men in nature, of their natural rebellion against God, and God’s
displeasure against them, they are most ready, I say, to apply such things to themselves, to
the weakening of their own hands, and saddening of their hearts, as the upright-hearted disciples
were more ready to take with the challenge of betraying Christ, than the false hearted Judas.
Therefore the apostle prevents such an abuse of the doctrine, by making application of the
better part unto the Romans, but for you, “ye are not of the flesh,” &c. Indeed, self examination
is necessary, and it is like chewing of the meat before it be sent into the stomach, it is
as necessary and precedent before right application. I wish that every one of you would consider
well what this living word concerns you. It is the ground of all our barrenness, no man brings
this home to himself, which is spoken to all, but truly the Lord speaks to all, that every
man may speak to himself, and ask at his own heart, what is my concernment in it? What is my
portion? As for you whom the Lord hath put upon this search of yourselves and hath once made
you to find yourselves in the black roll of perdition, under the hazard of the eternal weight
of God’s displeasure, and there hath showed unto your souls a way of making peace with God,
and a place of refuge in Jesus Christ which hath sometimes refreshed and eased your hearts,
and only was able to purify your consciences, and calm the storms that did arise in them, if
it be hence forth your study to walk to please him and this engagement be on your hearts, to
make no peace with the flesh, and corruption that dwells in you, then, I say, the Lord calls
and accounts you not carnal but spiritual, though there be much carnality in you, yet he denominates
from the better part, not from the greatest part, you are not after the flesh but after the
Spirit. Though Isaac be a weak young child, and Ishmael the son of the bond woman be a strong
man, yet thou art in God’s account esteemed according to the promise, which shall be the ground
of thy stability. Isaac must abide in the house for ever, and grow stronger and stronger, and
Ishmael must be cast out and grow weaker and weaker; the one is ordained for destruction, and
so is called the old man, drawing near to its grave, the other for life, and so is a new man
renewed day by day. Thus they are in God’s promise, and you would learn thus to look upon it,
not according to their present inequality in strength, but that future inequality and difference
which is wrapt up in the promise of God and the seed whereof is in you.

As there is a woful penury and scantiness of examination in the most part of men who are wholly
spent without, and take no leisure to recognise their own souls, so there is a miserable excess,
and hurtful superfluity of examination and disputation among many of God’s children, who are
always in reflection, and almost never in action, so much on knowing what is, that they take
not much leisure to do or pursue what is not. Truly, I think when the apostle commands us to
examine whether we be in the faith, and prove ourselves, he did not mean to make it our perpetual
exercise, or so to press it as we should not endeavor to be in the faith, till we know whether
we be in it; that were no advancing way, to refuse to go on in our journey till we know what
progress we have made, as the custom is. But simply and plainly, I think, he intended to have
Christianity begin in examination, as the first returning of a soul must needs be upon some
inquiry and search of the way, and knowledge upon search, that our former way was wrong, and
this is only right. But if this be the porch to enter at, will you sit down and dwell in it,
and not go on into the palace itself? Because you must begin to search what you have learned
wrong, that now you may unlearn it, will you be ever about the learning to know your condition,
and by this means never attain to the knowledge of the truth? But when you have upon any inquiry
found yourselves out of the way, you should not entertain that dispute long, but hearken to
the plain voice of the gospel, that sounds unto you, “This is the way, walk in it.” “I am the
way,” saith Christ, “enter at me, by believing in me.” Now, once having found that you are
unbelievers by nature, to suspend believing till you prove whether you be in the faith, is
unreasonable and impossible, for certainly having once found yourselves void of it, you must
first have it, before you know that you have it, you must first apply to action, and afterward
your examination shall be more easy.

But I would tell of more profitable improvement of such representations of the sinful and miserable
estate of the ungodly world, than you use to make of it, and I think it is that the apostles
intend, in the frequent turning the eyes of saints about to the accursed state of the world,
partly consolation, and partly some provocation to suitable walking. Things that are opposite
are best known by comparison one with another, each of them cast abroad a light to see the
other by. Therefore it is that the apostles do frequently remind the converted Gentiles of
the wretched estate the world ties into, and themselves once were into. You see it, 1 Cor.
vi. 11, “And such were some of you, but now you are washed.” And, Eph. ii. 1, “You who were
dead in sins hath he quickened.” There is not any thing will more commend unto a Christian
the grace of God towards him, nor(192) to look abroad round about him, and take a view of the
whole world lying in wickedness, and then to look backward to what himself once was, and compare
it with what the free grace of God hath made him. O what a soul ravishing contemplation is
that, 1 John v. 19, “And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness.”
How doth this heighten the price of grace, and how much doth it add to a soul’s inward contentment,
to think what it was of itself, and what it would undoubtedly have been, if not thus wonderfully
surprised! One used always to look to those below him, that he might not envy those above him.
Truly it might do well here, when a Christian is grieved and disquieted, because he hath not
attained to that desired measure of the image of God, and fellowship with him, to cast a look
about him to the miserable and hopeless estate of so many thousands who have the image of Satan
so visibly engraven on them, and have no inward stirring after this blessed image, and reflect
a little backward, to the hole of the pit whence he was taken, to look upon that primitive
estate that grace found him into, so loathsome, as described in Ezek. xvi. Would not such a
double sight, think you, make him break out in admiration, and be powerful to silence and compose
his spirit? O to think, that I was once in that black roll of those excluded from the kingdom!
“Such were some of you,” and then to consider, that my name was taken out, and washed by the
blood of Christ to be enrolled in the register of heaven. What an astonishing thing is it!
You see in nature, God hath appointed contrarieties and varieties to beautify the world, and
certainly, many things could not be known how good and beneficial they are, but by the smart
and hurt of that which is opposite in them, as ye could not imagine the good of light, but
by some sensible experience of the evil of darkness. Heat, you could not know the benefit of
it, but by the vexation of cold. Thus he maketh one to commend another, and both to beautify
the world. It is thus in art, contrariety and variety of colours and lines make up one beauty,
diversity of sounds make a sweet harmony. Now, this is the art and wisdom of God, in the dispensation
of his grace he setteth the misery of some beside the happiness of others, that each of them
may aggravate another, he puts light beside darkness, spirit fore-against(193) flesh, that
so saints may have a double accession to their admiration at the goodness and grace of God,
and to their delight and complacency in their own happiness, he presents the state of men out
of Christ, that you may wonder how you are translated, and may be so abundantly satisfied as
not to exchange your portion for the greatest monarchs.

Then, I say, this may provoke us, and persuade us to more suitable walking. Doth he make such
a difference? O do not you unmake it again! Do not confound all again, by your walking after
the course of the world. Conformity to the world is a confusion of what God hath separated.
Has infinite grace translated you from that kingdom of darkness to light? O then walk in that
light, as children of light! Are you such? Own your stations, consider your relations, and
make yourselves ashamed at the very thoughts of sin. He points out the deformed and ugly face
of the conversation of the world, that you may fall in love with the beauty or holiness, as
the Lacedemonians were wont to let their children see their slaves drunk, that the brutish
and abominable posture of such in that sin might imprint in the hearts of their children a
detestation of such a vice. Certainly, the Lord calls you to mind often what you have been,
and what the world about you is, not to engage you to it, but to alienate your minds from the
deformity of sin, and to commend to you the duty of obedience. You would learn to make this
holy use and advantage of all the wickedness the world lieth into, to behold in it, as in a
glass, your own image and likeness, that when you use to hate or despise others, you may rather
loathe and dislike yourselves, as having that same common nature, and wonder at the goodness
of God that makes such difference where none was. This were the way to make gain of the most
unprofitable thing in the world, that is, the sins of other men, for ordinarily the seeing
and speaking of them doth rather dispose us and incline us to more liberty to sin. Many look
on them with delight, some with contempt and hatred of those that commit them, but few know
how to speak or look on sin itself with indignation, or themselves, because of the seeds of
it within them, with abhorrency. I would think if we were circumspect in this, the worse the
world is, we might be the better, the worse the times are, we might spend it better, the more
pride we see, it might make us the more humble, the more impiety and impurity abound, it might
provoke us to a further distance from, and disconformity with, the world. Thus, if we were
wise, we might extract gold out of the dunghill, and suck honey out of the most poisonable
weed. The surrounding ignorance and wickedness of the world might cause a holy antiperistasis(194)
in a Christian, by making the grace of God unite itself, and work more powerfully, as fire
out of a cloud, and shine more brightly, as a torch in the darkness of the night.

As for you, whose woful estate is here described, who are yet in the flesh, and enemies to
God by nature, I would desire you to be stirred up at the consideration of this, that there
are some who are delivered out of that prison, and that some have made peace with God, and
are no more enemies but friends, and fellow citizens of the saints. If the case were left wholly
incurable and desperate, you had some ground to continue in your sins and security, but now
when you hear a remedy is possible, and some have been helped by it, I wonder that you do not,
upon this door of hope offered, bestir yourselves, that you may be those who are here excepted,
“but you are not in the flesh.” Since some are, why may not I be? Will you awake yourselves
with this alarm! If you had any desire after this estate, certainly such a hope as this would
give you feet to come to Jesus Christ, for these are the legs of the soul,—some desire of a
better estate, and some probability of it conceived by hope.

Sermon XXIV.

    Verse 9.—“If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any
    man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.”

“But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth?” 2 Chron. vi. 18. It was the wonder
of one of the wisest of men, and indeed, considering his infinite highness above the height
of heavens, his immense and incomprehensible greatness, that the heaven of heavens cannot contain
him, and then the baseness, emptiness, and worthlessness of man, it may be a wonder to the
wisest of angels. And what is it, think you, the angels desire to look into, but this incomprehensible
mystery of the descent of the Most High to dwell among the lowest and vilest of the creatures?
But as Solomon’s temple, and these visible symbols of God’s presence, were but shadows of things
to come, the substance whereof is exhibited under the gospel, so that wonder was but a shadow
or type of a greater and more real wonder, or God’s dwelling on the earth now. It was the wonder,
shall God dwell with man, among the rebellious sons of Adam? But behold a greater wonder since
Christ came, God dwelling in man, first personally in the man Christ, in whom the fulness of
the Godhead dwelt bodily, then graciously in the seed of Christ, in man by his Spirit, and
this makes men spiritual, if so be the Spirit of Christ dwell in you. You heard of the first
indwelling, ver. 3. And truly, this mysterious and wonderful inhabitation is not only a pledge
of the other, that God shall dwell in sinful men by his Spirit, but, in order of nature, it
hath some influence upon the other, without which God could not have dwelt in us. There is
so much distance and disproportion between his Majesty and us, that we could not be well united,
but by this intervening, God coming down first a step into the holy nature of the man Christ,
that from thence he might go into the sinful nature of other men. Our sinful and rebellious
nature behoved to be first sanctified this way, by the personal indwelling of God in our flesh,
and this had made an easy passage into sinful us, for his Spirit to dwell in us powerfully
and graciously, therefore the Spirit of Christ is said to dwell in us. Christ’s Spirit, not
only because proceeding from him as from the Father, but particularly, because the inhabitation
or operation of the Spirit in us, is the proper result and fruit of that glorious union of
our nature with him. He took our flesh, that he might send us his Spirit. And, O what a blessed
exchange was this! He came and dwelt in our nature, that so he might dwell in us: he took up
a shop, as it were, in our flesh, that he might work in us, and make us again conformed to God.

We shall not cut this asunder into many parts. You see the words contain plainly the very essential
definition of a spiritual man, and of a Christian. You find a spiritual man and a Christian
equivalent in this verse, that is to say, they are taken for one and the self same thing, and
so they are reciprocal, of equal extent and restraint. Every Christian is one after the Spirit,
and whosoever is after the Spirit is a Christian. One of Christ’s, and one after the Spirit,
is one thing. Now the definition of the Christian is taken from that which really and essentially
constitutes him such. He is one in whom the Spirit of Christ dwells, that makes him one after
the Spirit, that makes him one of Christ’s, because it is the Spirit of Christ. As if you define
what a man is, you could not do it better than thus: he is one endowed with a reasonable soul.
So the apostle gives you the very soul and form of a Christian, which differenceth from all
others. As the soul is to the body to make up a man, so the Spirit of Christ is to the soul
and Spirit of a man to make up a Christian, as the absence or presence of the soul makes or
unmakes a man, so the absence or presence of this Spirit makes or unmakes a Christian, for
you see he makes it reciprocal. If you be Christians, the Spirit dwells in you, but if the
Spirit dwell not in you, you are not Christians.

A word then to the first of these, that a Christian and a spiritual man are commensurable one
to another. It is true, there are Jews who are not Jews inwardly, but only according to the
letter, Rom. ii. 28, 29. And so there are Christians so called, who are but so outwardly, and
in the letter, who have no more of it but the name and visible standing in the church, but
we are speaking of that which is truly that which it is called, whose praise is not of men
but of God. The name of a man may be extended to a picture or image, for some outward resemblance
it hath of him, but it is not a proper speech, no more is it proper to extend the name of Christians
unto the pictures or images of Christians, such as are destitute of this inward life. You may
be properly, according to scripture phrase, members of the visible body, but you cannot have
that real and blessed relation to Jesus Christ the head, which shall be the source of happiness
to all the living members. I wish you would take it so, and flatter yourselves no more with
church titles, as if these were sufficient evidences for your salvation. You would all be called
Christians, but it fears me you know not many of you the true meaning and signification of
that word, the most comfortable sense of it is hid from you. The meaning of it is, that a man
is renewed by Christ in the spirit of his mind. As Christ and the Spirit are inseparable, so
a Christian and a spiritual nature are not to be found severed. Certainly, the very sound of
the name whereby you are called, imports another nature and conversation than is to be found
in many; you cannot say, that you have a shadow of spirituality, either in your affections
or actions, or that you have any real design and study that way but only to please your flesh,
and satisfy the customs of the world. Why do you then usurp the name of Christianity? This
is a common sacrilege, to give that which is holy unto dogs. Others give it to you, and you
take it to yourselves. But know, that though you please yourselves and others in this, yet
without such a renovation of your natures, and such a sincere study to be inwardly and outwardly
conformed to the profession and nature of Christianity, you have not your praise of God, and
him whom God praises not, and allows not, he cannot bless for ever. I am persuaded there are
some who are not only in the letter, but in the Spirit, whose greatest desire and design is
to be indeed what they profess, and such is their praise of God and if God praise them now,
they shall be made to praise him for ever hereafter; such are allowed to take the name and
honourable style of Christianity unto them. You are Christ’s nearly interested in him, and
if you be Christ’s own, he cannot be happy without you, for such was his love, that he would
not be happy alone in heaven, but came down to be miserable with us. And now that he is again
happy in heaven, certainly he cannot enjoy it long alone, but he must draw up his members unto
the fellowship of that glory.

Now the other thing, that which gives even being to a Christian is, the Spirit of Christ dwelling
in him. Of this inhabitation, we shall not say so much as the comparison, being strained, will
yield, neither expatiate into many notions about it. I wish rather we went home with some desires
kindled in us, after such a noble guest as the Holy Spirit is, and that we were begun once
to weary of the base and unclean guests that we lodge within us, to our own destruction. That
which I said that the Spirit is to a Christian, what the soul is to a man, if well considered,
might present the absolute necessity and excellency of this unto your eyes. Consider what a
thing the body is without the soul, how defiled and how deformed a piece of dust it is, void
of all sense and life, loathsome to look upon.

Truly the soul of man by nature is in no better case till this Spirit enter, it hath no light
in it, no life in it, it is a dark dungeon, such as is described, Eph. iv. 18, “Having the
understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is
in them, because of the blindness of their heart.” You have both in that word darkness and
deadness want of that shining light of God in the mind, so that it cannot discern spiritual
things that make to our eternal peace. All the plainness and evidence of the gospel, though
it did shine as a sun about you, can not make you see or apprehend either your own misery or
the way to help it, because your dungeon is within, the most part cannot form any sensible
notion of spiritual things, that are duly sounding unto them in the word. The eye of the mind
is put out, and if it be darkness, how great is that darkness! Certainly the whole man is without
light, and your way and walk must be in the dark, and indeed it appears  that it is dark night
with many souls because if it were not dark, they could not run out all their speed among pits
and snares in the way to destruction. And from this woful defect flows the alienation of the
whole soul from the life of God, that primitive light being eclipsed, the soul is separated
from the influence of heaven, and as Nebuchadnezzar’s soul acted only in a brutal way, when
driven out among beasts, so the soul of man, being driven out from the presence of the Lord,
may act in a way common to beasts, or in some rational way in things that concern this life,
but it is wholly spoiled of that divine life of communion with God. It cannot taste, smell,
or savour such things. O! if it were visible unto us, the state or the ruinous soul, we would
raise a more bitter lamentation over it than the Jews did over Jerusalem, or the kings and
merchants have reason to do over fallen Babylon. Truly, we might bemoan it thus, “How is the
faithful city become a harlot! righteousness lodged in it, but now murderers,” Isa. i. 21.
Man was once the dwelling place of princely and divine graces and virtues, the Lord himself
was there, and then how comely and beautiful was the soul! 21, 22 and Jer. l. 39. 2. All the
beasts flock now to it, all the birds of darkness take their lodging in it, since this noble
guest left it, and took away the light from it, for the sun hath not shined on it since that
day. All unclean affections, all beastly lusts, all earthly desires, all vain cogitations get
lodging in this house; the Bethel is become a Bethaven, the house of God become a house of
vanity, by the continual repair of vain thoughts, the house of prayer is turned into a den
of thieves and robbers. That which was at first created for the pure service and worship of
God, is now a receptacle of all the most rebellious and idolatrous thoughts and affections,
the heart of every man is become a temple full of idols.

This is the state of it, and worse than can be told you now, judge if there be not need of
a better guest than these. O what absolute necessity is there of such a spirit as this, to
repair and reform the ruinous spirit of man, to quicken and enlighten the darkened mind of
man! Even that Spirit, that made it at first a glorious palace for God, that Spirit that breathed
the soul into the former clay, must repair these breaches, and create all again. Now, when
the Spirit of Christ enters into this vile ruinous cottage, he repairs it and reforms it, he
strikes out lights in the heart, and, by a wonderful eye salve makes the eyes open to see;
he creates a new light within, which makes him behold the light shining in the gospel, and
behold all things are new, himself new, because now most loathsome and vile the world new,
because now appears nothing but vanity in the very perfection of it, and God new, because another
majesty, glory, excellency, and beauty shines into the soul than ever it apprehended. And as
the Spirit enlightens, so he enlivens this tabernacle or temple, he kindles a holy fire in
his affections, which must never go out, it is such as cannot be kindled, if it go out, but
by the beams of the sun, as the poets fancied the vestal-fire. The Spirit within the soul is
a fire to consume his corruption, to burn up his dross and vanity. Christ comes in like a refiner,
with the fire of the Spirit, and purges away earthly lusts, and makes the love of the heart
pure and clean, to burn upward toward heaven. This Spirit makes a Christian soul move willingly
toward God, in the ways that seemed most unpleasant; it is an active principle within him that
cannot rest till it rests in its place of eternal rest and delight in God. And then the Spirit
reforms this house, by casting out all these wild beasts that lodged in it, the savage and
unruly affections, that domineered in man, this strong man entering in, casts them out. There
is much rubbish in old waste palaces, Neh. iv. 2. O how much pains it is to cleanse them! Our
house is like the house of those nobles, Jer. v. 27: “Full of deceit, as a cage is full of
birds,” and our hearts full of wickedness and vanity, Jer. iv. 14. Certainly it will be much
labour to get your unclean spirits cast out, that is the grosser and more palpable lusts that
reign in you, but when these are gone forth, yet there is much wickedness and uncleanness in
the heart, of a more subtle nature, and by long indwelling, almost incorporated and mingled
with the soul, and this will not be gotten out with gentle sweeping, as was done, Luke xi.
25. That takes away only the uppermost filth that lies loosest, but this must be gotten out
by much washing and cleansing, therefore the Spirit enters by blood and water. There are idols
in the heart, to which the soul is much engaged; it unites and closes with them (Ezek. xxxvi.)
and these must be cleansed and washed out. There is much deceit in the heart, and this lies
closest to it and is engrossed into it, and indeed this will take the help of fire to separate
it, for that is of the most active nature to separate things of a diverse nature, the Spirit
must by these take out your dross. And all this the Spirit will not do alone, but honours you
with the fellowship of this work, and therefore you must lay your account that the operation
and reformation of this house for so glorious a guest, will be laborious in the mean time.
But O how infinitely is that compensated! One hour’s fellowship with him alone, when all strangers
are cast out, will compensate all, will make all to be forgotten, the pain of mortification
will be swallowed up in the pleasure of his inhabitation, “When I shall awake I shall be satisfied
with thy likeness.” When he shall take up house fully in you, it will satisfy you to the full.
In the meantime as he takes the rule and command of your house so for the present he provides
for it, the provision of the soul is incumbent on this divine guest, and O how sweet and satisfying
is it? O the peace and joy of the Holy Ghost, which are the entertainment that he gives a soul,
where he reigns, and hath brought in righteousness, Rom. xiv. 17. What a noble train doth the
Spirit bring alongst with him to furnish this house? Many rich and costly ornaments hang over
it, and adorn it to make it like the king’s wife all glorious within; such as the ornament
of a meek and quiet spirit (1 Pet. iii. 4) which is a far more precious and rich hanging, than
the most curious or precious contexture of corruptible things, the clothing of humility, simple
in show, but rich in substance, (1 Pet. v. 5) which enriches and beautifies the soul that hath
it, more than all Solomon’s glory could do his person; for “better is it to be of a humble
spirit with the lowly, than divide the spoil with the proud,” Prov. xvi. 19. In a word, the
Spirit makes all new, puts a new man, a new fashion and image on the soul, which suits the
court of heaven, the highest in the world, and is conformed to the noblest and highest pattern,
the holiness and beauty of the greatest King. And being lodged within, O what sweet fruits
is the Spirit daily bringing forth to feed and delight the soul withal! Gal. v. 22, 23. And
he is not only a Spirit of sanctification, but of consolation too, and therefore of all the
most worthy to be received into our hearts, for he is a bosom comforter, John xiv. 16. When
there is no friend nor lover without, but a soul in that posture of Heman, Psal. lxxxviii.
18, and in that desolate estate of the churches, Lament. i. 2, “Among all her lovers she hath
none to comfort her,” (ver. 17) “spreading forth her hands, and none to comfort her,” (ver.
21) sighing, and none to comfort her. In such a case to have a living and overrunning spring
of comfort within, when all external and lower consolations, like winter brooks that dry up
in summer, have dried up and disappointed thy expectation, sure this were a happy guest, that
could do this. O that we could open our hearts to receive him!

Sermon XXV. It is that marriage between Christ and his church, for which, it would appear,
this world was builded, to be a palace to celebrate it into; and especially the upper house,
heaven, was made glorious for that great day, where it shall be solemnized. The first in order
of time was made by God himself in paradise, certainly to represent a higher mystery, the marriage
of the second Adam with his spouse, which is taken out of his bloody side, as the apostle imports,
Eph. v. Now there is the greatest inequality and disproportion between the parties, Christ
and sinners; so that it would seem a desperate matter to bring two such distant and unequal
natures to such a near union, as may cast a copy to all unions and relations of the creatures.
But he who at first made a kind of marriage between heaven and earth, in the composure of man,
and joined together an immortal spirit in such a bond of amity with corruptible dust, hath
found out the way to help this, and make it feasible. And truly, we may conceive the Lord was
but making way for this greater mystery of the union of Christ with us, when he joined the
breath of heaven with the dust of the earth. In this he gave some representation of another
more mysterious conjunction. Now, the way that the wisdom and love of God hath found out to
bring about this marriage, is this: because there was such an infinite distance between the
only begotten Son of God, who is the express character of his image, and the brightness of
his glory, and us sinful mortal creatures, whose foundation is in the dust, therefore it pleased
the Father, out of his good will to the match, to send his Son down among men; and the Son,
out of his love, to take on our flesh, and so fill up that distance with his low condescendence,
to be partaker of flesh and blood with the children. And now, what the Lord spoke of man fallen,
in a holy kind of irony or mock, “Behold he is become as one of us” that men may truly say
of the Son of God, not fallen down from heaven, but come down willingly, “Lo, he is become
as one of us;” like us in all things, except sin, which hath made us unlike ourselves. This
bond of union you have in verse 3. Christ so infinitely above sinners, and higher than the
heavens, coming down so low, to be as like sinners as might be, or could be profitable for
us, in the likeness of sinful flesh, &c. But yet this bond is not near enough; that conjunction
seemeth but general and infirm; both because it is in some manner common to all mankind who
shall not be all advanced to this privilege. By taking on our nature, he cometh nearer to human
nature, but not to some beyond others; and besides, the distance is not filled up this way,
because there is a great disproportion between that nature in Christ and in us. In him it is
holy and undefiled, and separated from sin; but in us it is unclean and immersed into sin;
so that, albeit he be nearer us as a man, yet he is far distant and unlike us,—a holy perfect
man. Now, what fellowship can be between light and darkness, as Paul speaketh of the marriage
of Christians with idolaters? Much greater distance and disagreement is between Christ and
us. Therefore, it seemeth, that some of us must be changed and transformed. But him it may
not be. He cannot become liker us than by partaking of our flesh; for if he had become a sinner
indeed, he would have become so like us that he could not help himself nor us either. This
would eclipse the glory and happiness of the marriage. But in that he came as near as could
be, without disabling himself, to make us happy; and so he was contented to come in the place
of sinners, and take on their debt, and answer to God’s justice for it; yea, and in his own
person he submitted to be tempted to sin, though it had been evil for us he had been overcome
by it; yet this brings him a step lower and nearer us, and maketh the union more hopeful. But
since he can come no lower, and can be made no liker us in the case we are in, then certainly—if
the match hold—we must become liker him, and raised up out of our miserable estate, to some
suitableness to his holy nature. And, therefore, the love and wisdom of God, to fill up the
distance completely, and effectuate this happy conjunction, that the creation seemeth to groan
for,—for (ver. 22) the whole creation is pained till it be accomplished,—he hath sent his blessed
Spirit to dwell in us, and to transform our natures, and make them partakers of the divine
nature, (2 Pet. i. 4) as Christ was partaker of human nature; and thus the distance shall be
removed. When a blessed Spirit is made flesh, and a fleshly man made spirit, then they are
near the day of espousals; and this indwelling of the Spirit is the last link of the chain
that fastens us to Christ, and maketh our flesh in some measure like his holy flesh. By taking
on our flesh, Christ became bone of our bone, and flesh of our flesh; but the union becometh
mutual when we receive the Spirit, we become bone of his bone, and flesh of his flesh, as it
is expressed, Eph. v. 30, in allusion to the creation of Eve, and her marriage to Adam. The
ground of the marriage is that near bond of union,—“Because she was taken out of man,” and,
therefore, because of his flesh and bone, she was made one flesh with him. Even so the sinner
must be partaker of the Spirit of Christ, as Christ is partaker of the flesh of sinners, and
these two concurring, these two knots interchanging and woven through other, we become one
flesh with him. And this is a great mystery, indeed, to bring two who were so far asunder,
so near other. Yea, it is nearer than that too, for we are said not only to be one flesh with
Christ, but one spirit, 1 Cor. vi. 17. “He that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit,” because
he is animated and quickened by one spirit,—that same spirit of Christ. And, indeed, spirits
are more capable of union, and more fit to embosom one with another than bodies, therefore,
the nearest union conceivable is the union of spirits by affections, this maketh two souls
one, for it transports their spirit out of the body where it lives, and settleth it there where
it loveth.

Now, my beloved, you see what way this great marriage, that heaven and earth are in a longing
expectation after shall be brought about. Christ did forsake his Fathers house when he left
that holy habitation, his Fathers bosom,—a place of marvellous delight, (Prov. viii. 30) and
descended into the lower parts of the earth (Eph. iv. 9) and, he came out from the Father into
the world, John xvi. 28. This was a great journey to meet with poor sinners. But that there
may be a full and entire meeting you must leave and forsake your fathers house too, and forget
your own people, Psalm xlv. 10. You must give an entire renounce to all former lovers if you
would be his. All former bonds and engagements must be broken, that this may be tied the faster.
And, to hold to the subject in hand, you must forsake and forget the flesh, and be possessed
of his Holy Spirit. As he came down to our flesh, you must rise up to meet him in the spirit.
The Spirit of Christ must indeed prevent you, and take you out of that natural posture you
are born into, and bring you a great journey from yourselves, that you may be joined unto him.

This Spirit of Christ is his messenger and ambassador, sent beforehand to fit you and suit
you for the day of espousals, and, therefore, he must have a dwelling and constant abode in
you. This indwelling imports a special familiar operation, and the perpetuity or continuance
of it. The Spirit is everywhere in his being, and he worketh everywhere too, but here he hath
a special and peculiar work in commission—to reveal the love of God in Christ, to engage the
soul to love him again, to prepare all within for the great day of espousals, to purify and
purge the heart from all that is displeasing to Christ, to correspond between Christ and his
spouse, between heaven and earth by making intercession for her when she cannot pray for herself
as you find here, ver. 26, and so sending up the news of the soul’s panting and breathing after
Christ, sending up her groans and sighs to her Beloved, giving intelligence of all her necessities
to him who is above, in the place of an advocate and interceder, and then bring back from heaven
light and life, direction from her Head—for the Spirit must lead into all truth—and consolation,
for Christ hath appointed the Spirit to supply his absence, and to comfort the soul in the
mean time till he come again. You have this mutual and reciprocal knot in 1 John iv. 13, “Hereby
we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, by the Spirit that he hath given.” It is much nearness
to dwell one with another, but much greater to dwell one in another. And it is reciprocal,
such a wonderful interchange in it, we in him, and he in us, for the Spirit carries the soul
to heaven, and brings Christ, as it were down to the earth.  He is the messenger that carries
letters between both—our prayers to him, and his prayers for us and love tokens to us, the
anointing that teacheth us all things, from our Husband, (1 John ii. 27,) and revealing to
us the things of God, (1 Cor. ii. 12.) giving us the first fruits of that happy and glorious
communion we must have with Christ in heaven as you see, verse 23 of this chapter, and sealing
us to the day of redemption, 1 Pet. i. 13, and iv. 30, supplying us with divine power against
our spiritual enemies, fetching along from heaven that strength whereby our Lord and Saviour
overcame all, Eph. ii. 16, Gal v. 17. This is a presence that few have, such a familiar and
love-abode. But, certainly, all that are Christ’s must have it in some measure. Now whosoever
hath it, it is perpetual, the Spirit dwells in them. It is not a sojourning for a season, not
a lodging for a night,—as some have fits and starts of seeking God, and some transient motions
of conviction or joy, but return again to the puddle, these go through them as lightning, and
do not warm them or change them but this is a constant residence; where the Spirit takes up
house he will dwell, “he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you,” and abide for ever, John
xiv. 16, 17. If the Son abide in the house for ever, (John viii. 35) much more the master of
the house must abide. Now, the Spirit where he dwells hath gotten the command of that house,
all the power is put in his hand and resigned to him, for where he dwells he must rule, as
good reason is. He is about the greatest work that is now to do in the world, the repairing
and renewing of the ruins and breaches of man’s spirit, which was the first breach in the creation,
and the cause of all the rest. He is about the cleansing and washing this temple, and we may
be persuaded, that he who hath begun this good work, will perform it until the day of Christ,
till we be presented blameless and without spot to our Husband (Phil. i. 5, 6), and this is
the grand consolation of believers that they have this presence assured to them by promise,
that the Spirit is fixed here by an irrevocable and unchangeable covenant or donation, and
will not wholly depart from them, though he may withdraw and leave you comfortless for a season,
Isa. lix. 21.

Therefore I would shut up all in a word of exhortation to you, that since we have the promise
of so noble and happy a guest, you would apply yourselves to seek him, and then keep him, to
receive him and then retain him. It is true that he must first prevent us, for as no man can
say, “that Jesus is the Christ, but by the Spirit of God,” so no man can indeed pray for the
Spirit, but by the Spirit’s own intercession within him. Where God hath bestowed any thing
of this Spirit, it is known by the kindly and fervent desires after more of it. Now, since
we have such a large and ample promise (Ezek. xxxvi. 27, Joel ii. 28) of the pouring out of
the Spirit, and that in as absolute and free a manner as can be imagined, and this renewed
by Christ, and confirmed by his prayer to the Father for the performance of it, (John xiv.
16, 17) and then we have a sweet and affectionate promise propounded in the most moving and
loving manner than can be, Luke xi. 13, where he encourageth us to pray for the Spirit and
that from this ground, that our heavenly Father, who placed that natural affection in other
fathers toward their children, whereby they cannot refuse them bread when they cry for it,
he, who was the author of all natural affection, must certainly transcend them infinitely in
his love to his children, as the Psalmist argues, “Shall not he that planted the ear, hear?
and he that formed the eye, see?” So may a poor soul reason itself to some confidence, shall
not he who is the fountain of all natural love to men and beasts have much more himself? And
if my father will not give me a stone when I seek bread, certainly he will far less do it,
therefore, “if we being evil, know how to give good things to our children, how much more shall
our heavenly Father give his Spirit to them that ask him?” Alas that we should want such a
gift for not asking it! My beloved, let us enlarge our desires for this Spirit, and seek more
earnestly, and no doubt affection and importunity will not be sent away empty. Is it any wonder
we receive not, because we ask not, or we ask so coldly, that we teach him in a manner to deny
us, qui timide rogat, I may say, frigide, docet negare. Ask frequently, and ask confidently,
and his heart cannot deny. O that we could lay this engagement on our own hearts to be more
in prayer! Let us press ourselves to this and we need not press him. Albeit the first grace
be wholly a surprisal, yet certainly he keeps this suitable method in the enlargements of grace,
that when he gives more, he enlargeth the heart more after it, he openeth the mouth wider to
ask and receive, and, according to that capacity, so is his hand open to fill the heart. O,
why are our hearts shut when his hand is open! Again, I would exhort you in Jesus Christ, to
entertain the Spirit suitably, and this shall keep him. To this purpose are these exhortations
“Grieve not the Holy Spirit,” Eph. iv. 30, and “Quench not the Spirit,” 1 Thess. v. 19. There
is nothing can grieve him but sin, and if you entertain that, you cannot retain him. He is
a Spirit of holiness and he is about the making you holy, then do not mar him in his work,
labour to advance this and ye do him a pleasure. If you make his holy temple an unclean cage
for hateful birds, or a temple for idols, how can it but grieve him? And if you grieve the
Spirit, certainly the Spirit will grieve you, will make you repent it at the heart. Please
him, by hearkening to his motions, and following his direction, and he shall comfort you. His
office is to be a spring of consolation to you, but if you grieve him by walking in the imagination
of your hearts, and following the suggestions of the flesh,—his enemy,—no doubt that spring
will turn its channel another way, and dry up for a season toward you. It is not every sin
or infirmity that grieves him thus, if so be that it grieve thee; but the entertaining of any
sin, and making peace with any of his enemies, that cannot but displease him: and, O what loss
you have by it! You displease your greatest friend, to please your greatest enemy, you blot
and bludder(195) that seal of the Spirit, that you shall not be able to read it, till it be
cleansed and washed again. Now, “if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his,”
he is not a Christian. Take this along with you, who aim at nothing but the external and outward
show or visible standing in the church. If you have not this Spirit, and the seal of this Spirit,
found on you, Christ will not know you for his in that day of his appearing.

Sermon XXVI.

    Verse 10.—“And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of
    sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.”

God’s presence is his working. His presence in a soul by his Spirit is his working in such
a soul in some special manner, not common to all men, but peculiar to them whom he hath chosen.
Now his dwelling is nothing else but a continued, familiar and endless working in a soul, till
he hath conformed all within to the image of his Son. The soul is the office house, or workhouse,
that the Spirit hath taken up, to frame in it the most curious piece of the whole creation,
even to restore and repair that masterpiece, which came last from God’s hand, ab ultima manu,
and so was the chiefest. I mean, the image of God, in righteousness and holiness. Now, this
is the bond of union between God and us: Christ is the bond of union with God, but the Spirit
is the bond of union with Christ. Christ is the peace between God and us, that makes of two
one, but the Spirit is the link between Christ and us, whereby he hath immediate and actual
interest in us, and we in him. I find the union between Christ and soul shadowed out in scripture,
by the nearest relations among creatures, (for truly these are but shadows, and that is the
body or substance,) and because an union that is mutual is nearest, it is often so expressed,
as it imports an interchangeable relation, a reciprocal conjunction with Christ. The knot is
cast on both sides to make it strong. Christ in us, and we in him; God dwelling in us, and
we in him, and both by this one Spirit, 1 John iv. 13. “Hereby we know that God dwelleth in
us, and we in him, by his Spirit which he hath given us.” You find it often in John, who being
most possessed with the love of Christ, and most sensible of his love could best express it:
“I in them, and they in me. He that keepeth his commands dwelleth in him, and he in him,” as
the names of married persons are spelled through other, so doth he spell out this indwelling;
it is not cohabitation but inhabitation: neither that alone singly, but mutual inhabitation,
which amounts to a kind of penetration, the most intimate and immediate presence imaginable.
Christ dwelleth in our hearts by faith; and we dwell in Christ by love, Eph. iii. 17 , and
1 John iv. Death bringeth him into the heart; for it is the very application of a Saviour to
a sinful soul. It is the very applying of his blood and sufferings to the wound that sin made
in the conscience; the laying of that sacrifice propitiatory to the wounded conscience, is
that which heals it, pacifies it, and calms it. A Christian, by receiving the offer of the
gospel cordially and affectionately brings in Christ offered into his house, and then salvation
comes with him. Therefore believing is receiving, (John i.) the very opening of the heart to
let in an offered Saviour; and then Christ, thus possessing the heart by faith, he works by
love, and “he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him.” Love hath this special
value in it, that it transports the soul in a manner out of itself to the Beloved, Cant. iv.
9. Anima est ubi amat, non ubi animat;(196) the fixing and establishing of the heart on God
is a dwelling in him; for the constant and most continued residence of the most serious thoughts
and affections, will be their dwelling in their all-fulness and riches of grace in Jesus Christ.
As the Spirit dwelleth where he worketh, so the soul dwelleth where it delighteth; its complacency
in God making a frequent issue or outgoing to him in desires and breathings after him; and
by means of this same, God dwelleth in the heart, for love is the opening up of the inmost
chamber of the heart to him, it brings in the Beloved into the very secrets of the soul, to
lie all night betwixt his breasts as a bundle of myrrh, Cant. i. 13. And indeed all the sweet
odours of holy duties, and all the performing of good works and edifying speeches, spring out
only, and are sent forth, from this bundle of myrrh that lies betwixt the breasts of a Christian,
in the inmost of his heart, from Christ dwelling in the affections of the soul.

Now, this being the bond of union betwixt Christ and us, it follows, necessarily, that whosoever
hath not the Spirit of Christ, “he is none of his;” and this is subjoined for prevention or
removal of the misapprehensions and delusions of men in their self-judgings; because self-love
blinds our eyes, and maketh our hearts deceive themselves. We are given to this self-flattery,—to
pretend and claim to an interest in Jesus Christ, even though there be no more evidence for
it than the external relation that we have to Christ, as members of his visible body, or partakers
of a common influence of his Spirit. There are some external bonds and ties to Christ, which
are like a knot that may easily be loosed if any thing get hold of the end of it; as by our
relations to Christ by baptism, hearing the word, your outward covenanting to be his people;
all these are loose unsure knots; it is as easy to untie them as to tie them, yea, and more
easy; and yet many have no other relation to Christ than what these make. But it is only the
Spirit of Christ given to us that entitles and interesteth us in him, and him in us. It is
the Spirit working in your souls mightily and continually, making your hearts temples for the
offering of the sacrifice of prayer and praises, casting out all idols out of these temples,
that he alone may be adored and worshipped, by the affectionate service of the heart, purging
them from all filthiness of flesh and spirit. It is the Spirit, I say, thus dwelling in men
that maketh them living members of the true body of Christ, lively, joined to the Head,—Christ.
This maketh him yours and you his; by virtue of this he may command you as his own, and you
may use and employ him as your own. Now, for want of this, in most part of men, they also want
this living saving interest in Christ. They have no real but an imaginary and notional propriety
and right to the Lord Jesus; for Christ must first take possession of us by his Spirit before
we have any true right to him, or can willingly resign ourselves to him, and give him right
over us. What shall it profit us, my beloved, to be called Christians, and to esteem ourselves
so, if, really, we be none of Christ’s? Shall it not heighten our condemnation so much the
more that we desire to pass for such and give out ourselves so, and yet have no inward acquaintance
and interest in him whose name we love to bear? Are not the most part shadows and pictures
of true Christians, bodies without the soul of Christianity, that is, the Spirit of Christ,
whose hearts are treasures of wickedness and deceit, and storehouses of iniquity and ignorance?
It may be known what treasure fills the heart by that which is the constant and common vent
of it, as our Saviour speaks, Matt. xv. 19; and xii. 34, 35, “Out of the abundance of the heart
the mouth speaketh,” the feet walk, and the hand works. Consider, then, if the Spirit of God
dwelleth in such unclean habitations and dark dungeons; certainly no uncleanness or darkness
of the house can hinder him to come in; but it is a sure argument and evidence that he is not
as yet come in, because the prince of darkness is not yet cast out of many souls, nor yet the
unclean spirits that lodge within; these haunt your hearts, and are as familiar now as ever.
Sure I am, many souls have never yet changed their guests, and it is as sure that the first
guest that taketh up the soul is darkness and desperate wickedness, with unparalleled deceitfulness.
There is an accursed trinity, instead of that blessed Trinity, the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Spirit; and when this holy Trinity cometh in to dwell, that other of hell must go out.
Now, my beloved, do you think this a light matter, to be disowned by Jesus Christ? Truly, the
word of Christ, which is the character of all our evidences and rights for heaven, disowns
many as bastards and dead members, withered branches, and, certainly, according to this word
he will judge you, “the word that I have spoken shall judge you in the last day.” O that is
a heavy word! You have the very rule and method of proceeding laid down before you now, which
shall be punctually kept at that great day. Now, why do you not read your ditty(197) and condemnatory
sentence here registered? If you do not read it now in your consciences, he will one day read
it before men and angels, and pronounce this,—I know you not for mine, you are none of mine.
But if you would now take it to your hearts, there might be hope that it should go no further,
and come to no more public-hearing, there were hope that it should be repealed before that
day, because the first entry of the Spirit of Christ is to convince men of sin, that they are
unbelievers, and without God in the world, and if this were done, then it were more easy to
convince you of Christ’s righteousness, and persuade you to embrace it, and this would lead
in another link of the chain,—the conviction of judgment, to persuade you to resign yourselves
to the Spirit’s rule, and renounce the kingdom of Satan; this were another trinity, a trinity
upon earth, three bearing witness on the earth that you have the Spirit of God.

    Verse 10.—“And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of
    sin,” &c.

All the preceding verses seem to be purposely set down by the apostle for the comfort of Christians
against the remnants of sin and corruption within them, for in the preceding chapter, he personates
the whole body of Christ militant, showing, in his own example, how much sin remains in the
holiest in this life, and this he rather instances in his own person than another that all
may know that matter of continual sorrow and lamentation is furnished to the chiefest of saints,
and yet, in this chapter, he propounds the consolation of Christians more generally, that all
may know that these privileges and immunities belong even to the meanest and weakest of Christians,—that,
as the best have reason to mourn in themselves, so the worst want not reason to rejoice in
Jesus Christ. And this should always be minded that the amplest grounds of the strongest consolation
are general to all that come indeed to Jesus Christ, and are not restricted unto saints of
such and such a growth and stature. The common principles of the gospel are more full of this
milk of consolation, if you would suck it out of them, than many particular grounds which you
are laying down for yourselves. God hath so disposed and contrived the work of our salvation,
that in this life he that hath gathered much, in some respect, hath nothing over—that is to
say, hath no more reason to boast than another, but will be constrained to sit down and mourn
over his own evil heart, and the emptiness of it, and he that hath gathered less hath, in some
sense, no want. I mean, he is not excluded and shut out from the right to these glorious privileges
which may express gloriation and rejoicing from the heart, that there might be an equality
in the body, he maketh the stronger Christian to partake with the weaker in his bitter things,
and the weaker with the stronger in his sweet things, that none of them may conceive themselves
either despised, or alone regarded, that the eunuch may not have reason to say, “I am a dry
tree,” Isa. lvi. 3. For, behold the Lord will give, even to such, “a place” in his house, and
“a name better than of sons and daughters.” The soul that is in sincerity aiming at this walk,
and whose inward desires stir after more of this Holy Spirit, he will not refuse to such that
name and esteem that they dare not take to themselves because of their seen and felt unworthiness.
Now, in this verse he proceeds further to the fruits and effects of sin dwelling in us, to
enlarge the consolation against that too. Now, If Christ be in you, the body, &c. Seeing the
word of God hath made such a connection between sin and death, and death is the wages of sin,
and that which is the just recompense of enmity and rebellion against God, the poor troubled
soul might be ready to conceive that if the body be adjudged to death for sin, that the rest
of the wages shall be paid, and sin having so much dominion as to kill the body, that it should
exerce(198) its full power to destroy all. Seeing we have a visible character of the curse
of God engraven on us in the mortality of our bodies, it may look with such a visage on a soul
troubled for sin, as if it were but earnest of the full curse and weight of wrath, and that
sin were not fully satisfied for, nor justice fully contented by, Christ’s ransom. Now, he
opposes to this misconception the strongest ground of consolation—if Christ be in you, though
your bodies must die for sin, because sin dwelleth in them, yet that Spirit of life that is
in you hath begun eternal life in your souls, your spirits are not only immortal in being,
but that eternal happy being is begun in you, the seeds of it are cast into your souls, and
shall certainly grow up to perfection of holiness and happiness, and this through the righteousness
of Christ which assureth that state unto you. The comfort is, it is neither total, for it is
only the death of your body, nor is it perpetual, for your bodies shall be raised again to
life eternal, verse 11. And not only is it only in part, and for a season, but it is for a
blessed end and purpose it is that sin may be wholly cleansed out that this tabernacle is taken
down, as the leprous houses(199) were to be taken down under the law, and as now we use to
cast down pest lodges, the better to cleanse them of the infection. It is not to prejudge him
of life, but to install him in a better life. Thus you see that it is neither total nor perpetual,
but it is medicinal and profitable to the soul,—it is but the death of the body for a moment,
and the life of the soul for ever.

Sermon XXVII.

    Verse 10.—“And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because sin,”
    &c.

This is the high excellence of the Christian religion, that it contains the most absolute precepts
for a holy life, and the greatest comforts in death, for from these two the truth and excellency
of religion is to be measured, if it have the highest and perfectest rule of walking, and the
chiefest comfort withal. Now, the perfection of Christianity you saw in the rule, how spiritual
it is, how reasonable, how divine, how free from all corrupt mixture, how transcending all
the most exquisite precepts and laws of men, deriving a holy conversation from the highest
fountain, the Spirit of Christ, and conforming it to the highest pattern, the will of God.
And, indeed, in the first word of this verse, there is something of the excellent nature of
Christianity holden out, “if Christ be in you,” which is the true description of a Christian,—one
in whom Christ is, which imports the divine principle and the spiritual subject of Christianity.
The principle is Christ in a man,—Christ by his Spirit dwelling in him. This great apostle
knew this well in his own experience, and, therefore, he can speak best in this style “I live,
yet not I, but Christ in me,” Gal. ii. 20 importing, that Christ and his Spirit is to the soul
what the soul is to the body,—that there is a living influence from heaven that acts and moves
the soul of a Christian as powerfully yet as sweetly and pleasantly, as if it were the natural
motion of the soul, and truly it is the natural motion of the soul. It is that primitive life
which was most connatural to the soul of man, which sin did deprive us of. All the powerful
constraint and violence that Christ uses in drawing the souls of men to him, and after him,
is as kindly unto them, and perfects them as much, as that impulse by which the soul moves
and turns the body, a sweet compulsion and blessed violence. Now this should make Christians
often to reflect upon another principle of their life than themselves, that by looking on him,
who is “the resurrection and the life,” who is “the true vine,” and abiding in him by faith,
their life may be continued and increased. It is certainly much reflection on Him who is all
in all, and less upon ourselves that maintains this life, and, therefore, the most part of
men being wholly strangers to this, whether in their purposes or practices, or judgings of
both, unacquainted with any higher look in religion than they use in their natural and civil
actings, it doth give ground to assure us that they are strangers,—alienated from the life
of God,—without God, and without Christ in the world.

But then the spiritual subject of Christianity is here, Christ in you not Christ without you,
in ordinances, in profession, in some civil carriage but Christ within the heart of a man,—that
is a Christian. It is the receiving of Christ into the soul, and putting him on upon the inner
man, and renewing it, that makes a Christian, not being externally clothed with him, or compassed
about with him, in the administration of the ordinances. It fears me, most part of us who bear
the name of Christianity, have no character of it within if we were looked and searched. Many
are like the sepulchres Christ speaks of,—without, painted and fair,—within, no thing but rottenness
and dead bones. What have many of you more of Christ than what a blind man hath of light? It
is round about him, but not within him. The light hath sinned in darkness but your darkness
cannot comprehend it. You are environed with the outward appearances of Christ in his word
and ordinances, and that is all, but neither within you, nor upon many of you, is there any
thing either of his light or life. Not so much as any outward profession or behaviour, suitable
to the revelation of Christ, about you. As if you were ashamed to be Christians, you maintain
gross ignorance, and practise manifest rebellion against his known will in the very light of
the gospel. How few have so much tincture of Christ, so much as to colour the external man,
or to clothe it with any blamelessness of walking or form of religion! How few are so much
as Christians in the letter! For you are not acquainted either with letter or spirit,—either
with knowledge or affection or practice. But suppose that some have put on Christ on their
outward man and colour over themselves with some performances of religious duties, and smooth
themselves with civility in carriage, yet alas! how few are they who are renewed in the spirit
of their mind, and have put on Christ in their inward man, who have opened the secrets of their
hearts, and received him to “lie all night between their breasts.” How few are busied about
their hearts, to have any new impression and dye upon their affections,—to mould them after
a new manner,—to kill the love of this world and the lusts of it,—and cast out the rottenness
and superfluity of naughtiness which abides within! But some there are who are persuaded thus
to do to give up their spirits to religion, and all their business and care is, to have Christ
within, as well as without. Now, if the rest of you will not be persuaded to be of this number,
consider what you prejudge yourselves of, of all the comfort of religion, and then religion
is no religion, and to no purpose, if you have no benefit by it. And certainly, except Christ
be in you as a King to rule you, and a Prophet to teach you,—to subdue your lusts, and dispel
your darkness, when he appears, he cannot appear to your comfort and salvation. You are deprived
of this great cordial against death, and death must seize upon all that is within you, soul
and body, since Christ the Spirit of life is not within you. Happiness without you will not
make you happy—salvation round about you will not save you. If you would be saved, there must
be a near and immediate union with happiness. Christ in the heart, and salvation cometh with
him. A Christian is not only Christ without not imputing his sins to him, clothing him with
his righteousness but Christ within too, cleansing the heart from the love of sin, “perfecting
holiness in the fear of God.” Do not think you have any share in Christ without you, except
you receive Christ within you, because Christ is one within and without, and his gifts are
undivided. Therefore true faith receives whole Christ as a complete Saviour, even as he is
entirely offered, so he is undividedly received as he is without saving us, and within sanctifying
us,—Christ without, delivering from wrath—and Christ within, redeeming from all iniquity—these
cannot be parted more than his coat that had no seam. It is a heavy and weighty word of this
apostles, 2 Cor. xiii. 5: “Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith know ye not your
own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates.” I wish you would lay
it to heart, who have never yet returned to your hearts. If Christ be not formed in you, (as
Gal. iv. 19,) you are as yet among the refuse, dross, and that which must be burnt with fire.
You cannot but be cast away in the day when he makes up his jewels. Where Christ is he is the
hope of glory,—he is an immortal seed of glory. How can you hope for Christ, who have nothing
of him within you?

Now, the other touchstone of true religion is, the great comfort it furnishes to the soul,
and, of all comforts, the greatest is that which is a cordial to the heart against the greatest
fears and evils. Now, certainly the matter of greatest fear is death, not so much because of
itself, but chiefly because of that eternity of unchangeable misery that naturally it transmits
them unto. Now, it is only the Christian religion possessing the heart that arms a man completely
against the fear either of death itself, or the consequents of it. It giveth the most powerful
consolation, that not only overcometh the bitterness and taketh out the sting of death, but
changeth the nature of it so far as to make it the matter of triumph and gloriation.

There is something here supposed, the worst that can befall a Christian, it is the death of
a part of him, and that the worst and ignoblest part only, “the body is dead because of sin.”
Then, that which is opposed by way of comfort to counter-balance it, is, the life of his better
and more noble part. And, besides, we have the fountains both of that death and this life,—man’s
sin the cause of bodily death, Christ’s righteousness the fountain of spiritual life.

Of death many have had sweet meditations, even among those that the light of the word hath
not shined upon, and, indeed, they may make us ashamed who profess Christianity, and so the
hope of the resurrection from the dead, that they have accounted it only true wisdom and sound
philosophy to meditate often on death, and made it the very principal point of living well
to be always learning to die, and have applied their whole studies that way, neglecting present
things that are in the by, have given themselves to search out some comfort against death,
or from death. Yea, some have so profited in this, that they have accounted death the greatest
good that can befall man, and persuaded others to think so.(200) Now, what may we think of
ourselves, who scarce apprehend mortality, especially considering that we have the true fountain
of it revealed to us, and the true nature and consequents of it.

All men must needs know that death is the most universal king in the world, that it reigns
over all ages, sexes, conditions, nations and times, though few be willing to entertain thoughts
of it, yet sooner or later, they must be constrained to give it lodging upon their eyelids,
and suffer it to storm the very strongest tower, the heart, and batter it down, and break the
strings of it, having no way either to fly from it or resist it. Now, the consideration of
the general inundation of death over all mankind, and the certain approaching of it to every
particular man’s door, hath made many serious thoughts among the wise men of the world. But
being destitute of this heavenly light that shineth to us, they could not attain to the original
of it, but have conceived that it was a common tribute of nature, and an universal law imposed
upon all mankind by nature, having the same reason that other mutations and changes among the
creatures here below have, and so have thought it no more a strange thing, than to see other
things dissolved in their elements. Now, indeed, seeing they could apprehend no other bitter
ingredient in it, it was no wonder that the wisest of them could not fear it, but rather wait
and expect it as a rest from their labours, as the end of all their miseries.

But the Lord hath revealed unto us in his word the true cause of it, and so the true nature
of it. The true cause of it is sin,—“Sin entered into the world, and death passed upon all,
for that all have sinned,” Rom. v. 12. Man was created for another purpose, and upon other
conditions, and a law of perpetual life and eternal happiness was passed in his favour, he
abiding in the favour, and obeying the will of him that gave him life and being. Now, sin interposing,
and separating between man and God, loosing that blessed knot of union and communion, it was
this other law that succeeded, as a suitable recompense, “thou shall die:” it is resolved,
in the council of heaven, that the union of man shall be dissolved, his soul and body separated,
in just recompense of the breaking the bond of union with God. This is it that hath opened
the sluice to let in an inundation of misery upon mankind: this was the just occasion of that
righteous but terrible appointment, “It is appointed that all men once should die, and after
death come to judgment,” Heb. ix. 27; that since the body had enticed the soul, and suggested
unto it such unnatural and rebellious motions of withdrawing from the blessed Fountain of life,
to satisfy its pleasure, the body should be under a sentence of deprivement and forfeiture
of that great benefit and privilege of life it had by the soul’s indwelling, and condemned
to return to its first base original, “the dust,” and to be made a feast of worms, to lodge
in the grave, and be a subject of the greatest corruption and rottenness, because it became
the instrument, yea, the incitement of the soul to sin against that God that had from heaven
breathed a spirit into it, and exalted it above all the dust or clay in the world. Now, my
beloved, do we not get many remembrances of our sins? Is not every day presenting our primitive
departure from God, our first separation from the Fountain of life by sin, to our view, and
in such sad and woful effects pointing out the heinousness of sin? Do you not see men’s bodies
every day dissolved, the tabernacle of earth taken down, and the soul constrained to remove
out of it? But what influence hath it upon us, what do the multiplied funerals work upon us?
It may be, sorrow for our friends, but little or no apprehension of our own mortality, and
base impression of sin, that separates our souls from God. Who is made sadly to reflect upon
his original, or to mind seriously that statute and appointment of heaven, “In that day thou
shalt die?” It is strange that all of us fear death, and few are afraid of sin, that carries
death in its bosom,—that we are so unwilling to reap corruption in our bodies, and yet we are
so earnest and laborious in sowing to the flesh. Be not deceived, for you are daily reaping
what you have sown. And, O! that it were all the harvest; but death is only the putting in
of the sickle of vengeance, the first cut of it: but, O! to think on what follows, would certainly
restrain men, and cool them in their fervent pursuits after sin!

Sermon XXVIII. 56. These two concur to make man mortal, and these two are the bitter ingredients
of death. Sin procured it, and the law appointed it, and God hath seen to the exact execution
of that law in all ages; for what man liveth and shall not taste of death? Two only escaped
the common lot, Enoch and Elias; for they pleased God, and God took them: and, besides, it
was for a pledge, that at the last day all shall not die, but be changed. The true cause of
death is sin, and the true nature of it is penal, to be a punishment of sin: take away this
relation to sin, and death wants the sting. But, in its first appointment, and as it prevails
generally over men, aculeata(201) est mors, it hath a sting that pierceth deeper, and woundeth
sorer than to the desolation of the body, it goeth into the innermost parts of the soul, and
woundeth that eternally. The truth is, the death of the body is not either the first death
or the last death: it is rather placed in the middle between two deaths: and it is the fruit
of the first, and the root of the last. There is a death immediately hath ensued upon sin,
and it is the separation of the soul from God, the Fountain of life and blessedness: and this
is the death often spoken of, “You who were dead in sins and trespasses,” &c. Eph. ii. 1. “Being
past feeling,” and “alienated from the life of God,” Eph. iv. 18, 19. And truly this is worse
in itself than the death of the body simply, though not so sensible, because spiritual. The
corruption of the best part in man, in all reason, is worse than the corruption of his worst
part. But this death, which consists especially in the loss of that blessed communion with
God, which made the soul happy, cannot be found till some new life enter, or else till the
last death come, which adds infinite pain to infinite loss. Now the death of the body succeeds
this soul’s death, and that is, the separation of the soul from the body, most suitable, seeing
the soul was turned from the Fountain-spirit to the body, that the body should by his command
return to dust, and be made the most defiled piece of dust. Now, this were not so grievous,
if it were not a step to the death to come, and a degree of it introductive to it. But that
statute and appointment of heaven hath thus linked it, “after death comes judgment:” because,
the soul in the body would not be sensible of its separation from God, but was wholly taken
up with the body, neglecting and miskenning(202) that infinite loss of God’s favour and face,
therefore the Lord commands it to go out of the body, that it may then be sensible of its infinite
loss of God, when it is separated from the body; that it may then have leisure to reflect upon
itself, and find its own surpassing misery: and then indeed,—infinite pain and infinite loss
conjoined,—eternal banishment from the presence of that blessed Spirit, and eternal torment
within itself. These two concurring, what posture do you think such a soul will be into? There
are some earnest of this in this life. When God reveals his terror, and sets men’s sins in
order before their face, O! how intolerable is it, and more insupportable than many deaths.
They that have been acquainted with it, have declared it. The terrors of God are like poisonable
arrows sunk into Job’s spirit, and drinking up all the moisture of them. Such a spirit as is
wounded with one of these darts shot from heaven, who can bear it? Not the most patient and
most magnanimous spirit, that can sustain all other infirmities, Prov. xviii. 14. Now, my beloved,
if it be so now, while the soul is in the body, drowned in it, what will be the case of the
soul separated from the body, when it shall be all one sense, to reflect and consider itself?

This is the sting of death indeed, worse than a thousand deaths to a soul that apprehends it;
and the less it is apprehended, the worse it is; because it is the more certain, and must shortly
be found, when there is no brazen serpent to heal that sting. Now, what comfort have you provided
against this day? What way do you think to take out this sting? Truly, there is no balm for
it, no physician for it, but one; and that the Christian only is acquainted with. He in whom
Christ is, he hath this sovereign antidote against the poison of death, he hath the very sting
of it taken out by Christ, death itself killed, and of a mortal enemy made the kindest friend.
And so he may triumph with the apostle, “O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy
victory? Thanks be to God in Jesus Christ, who giveth us the victory,” 1 Cor. xv. 55. The ground
of his triumph, and that which a Christian hath to oppose to all the sorrows and pains and
fears of death mustered against him, is threefold; one, that death is not real; a second, that
it is not total, even that which is; and then, that it is not perpetual. This last is contained
in the next verse, the second expressed in this verse, and the first may be understood or implied
in it. That the nature of death is so far changed, that of a punishment it is become a medicine,
of a punishment for sin it is turned into the last purgative of the soul from sin; and thus
the sting of it is taken away, that relation it did bear to the just wrath of God. And now
as to the body of a Christian under appointment to die for sin, that is, for the death of sin,
the eternal death of sin. Christ having come under the power of death, hath gotten power over
it, and spoiled it of its stinging virtue. He hath taken away the poisonable ingredient of
the curse, that it can no more hurt them that are in him, and so it is not now vested with
that piercing and wounding notion of punishment. Though it be true that sin was the first inlet
of death, that it first opened the sluice to let it enter and flow in upon mankind, yet that
appointment of death is renewed, and bears a relation to the destruction of sin, rather than
the punishment of the sinner, who is forgiven in Christ. And, O! how much solid comfort is
here, that the great reason of mortality that a Christian is subject unto, is, that he may
be made free of that which made him at first mortal. Because sin hath taken such possession
in this earthly tabernacle, and is so strong a poison, that it hath infected all the members,
and by no purgation here made can be fully cleansed out, but there are many secret corners
it lurks into, and upon occasion vents itself, therefore it hath pleased God, in his infinite
goodness, to continue the former appointment of death, but under a new and living consideration,
to take down this infected and defiled tabernacle, as the houses of leprosy were taken down
under the law, that so they might be the better cleansed, and this is the last purification
of the soul from sin. And therefore, as one of the ancients said well, “That we might not be
eternally miserable, mercy hath made us mortal.” Justice hath made the world mortal, that they
might be eternally miserable, but to put an end to this misery, Christ hath continued our mortality,
else he would have abolished death itself, if he had not meant to abolish sin by death.  And
indeed, it would appear this is the reason why the world must be consumed with fire at the
last day, and new heavens and earth succeed in its room, because, as the little house, the
body, so the great house, the world, was infected with this leprosy, and so subjoined to vanity
and corruption because of mans sin therefore, that there might be no remnant of mans corruption,
and no memorial of sin to interrupt his eternal joy, the Lord will purify and change all,—all
the members that were made instruments of unrighteousness, all the creatures that were servants
to man’s lusts.  A new form and fashion shall be put on all, that the body being restored,
may be a fit dwelling place for the purified soul, and the world renewed, may be a fit house
for righteous men.  Thus you see, that death to a Christian is not real death, for it is not
the death of a Christian, but the death of sin his greatest enemy, it is not a punishment,
but the enlargement of the soul.

Now, the next comfort is, that which is but partial, it is but the dissolution of the lowest
part in man, his body, so far from prejudging the immortal life of his spirit it is rather
the accomplishment of that. Though the body must die, yet eternal life is begun already within
the soul, for the Spirit of Christ hath brought in life, the righteousness of Christ hath purchased
it, and the Spirit hath performed it, and applied it to us.  Not only there is an immortal
being in a Christian that must survive the dust (for that is common to all men), but there
is a new life begun in him, an immortal well being in joy and happiness, which only deserves
the name of life, that cometh never to its full perfection till the bodily and earthly houses
be taken down. If you consider seriously what a new life a Christian is translated unto, by
the operation of the Holy Ghost, and the ministration of the word, it is then most active and
lively, when the soul is most retired from the body in meditation.  The new life of a Christian
is most perfect in this life when it carrieth him the furthest distance from his bodily senses,
and is most abstracted from all sensible engagements, as you heard, for indeed it restores
the spirit of a man to its native rule and dominion over the body, so that it is then most
perfect when it is most gathered within itself, and disengaged from all external entanglements.

Now, certain it is, since the perfection of the soul in this life consists in such a retirement
from the body, that when it is wholly separated from it then it is in the most absolute state
of perfection, and its life acts most purely and perfectly when it hath no body to communicate
with, and to entangle it either with its lusts or necessities. The Spirit is life, it hath
a life now which is then best when furthest from the body, and therefore it cannot but be surpassing
better when it is out of the body, and all this is purchased by Christ’s righteousness.  As
man’s disobedience made an end of his life, Christ’s obedience hath made our life endless.
He suffered death to sting him, and by this hath taken the sting from it, and now, there is
a new statute and appointment of heaven published in the gospel, “whosoever believeth in him
shall not perish, but have eternal life.”  Now indeed, this hath so entirely changed the nature
of death, that it hath now the most lovely and desirable aspect on a Christian, that it is
no longer an object of fear, but of desire, amicable, not terrible unto him.  Since there is
no way to save the passenger, but to let the vessel break, he will be content to have the body
splitted, that himself, that is his soul, may escape, for truly a man’s soul is himself, the
body is but an earthly tabernacle that must be taken down, to let the inhabitant win out to
come near his Lord.  The body is the prison house that he groans to have opened, that he may
enjoy that liberty of the sons of God.  And now to a Christian, death is not properly an object
of patience, but of desire rather, “I desire to be dissolved and be with Christ,” Phil. i.
23.  He that hath but advanced little in Christianity will be content to die, but because there
is too much flesh, he will desire to live. But a Christian that is riper in knowledge and grace,
will rather desire to die, and only be content to live.  He will exercise patience and submission
about abiding here, but groanings and pantings about removing hence, because he knoweth that
there is no choice between that bondage and this liberty.

Sermon XXIX.  Always we bear about the marks of sin in our bodies to this day, and in so far
the threatening taketh place, that this life that we live in the body is become nothing else
but a dying life, the life that the ungodly shall live out of the body is a living death, and
either of these is worse than simple death or destruction of being. The serious contemplation
of the miseries of this life made wise Solomon to praise the dead more than the living, contrary
to the custom of men, who rejoice at the birth of a man-child, and mourn at their death. Yea,
it pressed him further, to think them which have not at all been, better than both, because
they have not seen the evil under the sun.  This world is such a chaos, such a mass of miseries,
that if men understood it before they came into it, they would be far more loath to enter it,
than they are now afraid to go out of it.  And truly we want not remembrances and representations
of our misery every day, in that children come weeping into the world, as it were bewailing
their own misfortune, that they were brought forth to be sensible subjects of misery. And what
is all our life-time, but a repetition of sighs and groans, anxiety and satiety, loathing and
longing, dividing our spirits and our time between them? How many deaths must we suffer before
death come? For the absence or loss of any thing much desired, is a separation no less grievous
to the hearts of men, than the parting of soul and body: for affection to temporal perishing
things, unites the soul so unto them, that there is no parting without pain, no dissolution
of that continuity without much vexation, and yet the soul must suffer many such tortures in
one day, because the things are perishing in their own nature, and uncertain. What is sleep,
which devours the most part of our time, but the very image and picture of death, a visible
and daily representation of the long cessation of the sensitive life in the grave? And yet,
truly, it is the best and most innocent part of our time, though we accuse it often. There
is both less sin and less misery in it, for it is almost the only lineament and refreshment
we get in all our miseries.  Job sought to assuage his grief and ease his body, but it was
the extremity of his misery that he could not find it. Now, my beloved, when you find that
which is called life subject to so much misery that you are constrained often to desire you
had never been born, you find it a valley of tears, a house of mourning from whence all true
delight and solid happiness is banished.  Seeing the very officers and serjeants of death are
continually surrounding us and walk alongst with us—though unpleasant company—in our greatest
contentments, and are putting marks upon your doors, as in the time of the plague upon houses
infected, “Lord have mercy upon us,”(203) and are continually bearing this motto to our view,
and sounding this direction to our ears, cito, procul, diu—to get soon our of Sodom that is
appointed for destruction, to fly quickly out of ourselves to the refuge appointed of God,
even one that was dead and is alive, and hath redeemed us by his blood, and to get far off
from ourselves, and take up dwelling in the blessed Son of God, through whose flesh there is
access to the Father,—seeing all these, I say, are so, why do not we awake ourselves upon the
sound of the promise of immortality and life, brought to our ears in the gospel? Mortality
hath already seized upon our bodies, but why do you not catch hold of this opportunity of releasing
your souls from the chains and fetters of eternal death? Truly, my beloved, all that can be
spoken of torments and miseries in this life, suppose we could imagine all the exquisite torments
invented by the most cruel tyrants since the beginning, to be combined in some one kind of
torture, and would then stretch our imagination beyond that, as far as that which is composed
of all torments surpasseth the simplest death, yet we do not conceive nor express unto you
that death to come.  Believe it, when the soul is out of the body it is a most pure activity,
all sense, all knowledge. And seeing where it is dulled and dampished(204) in the body, it
is capable of so much grief or joy, pleasure or pain, we may conclude, that being loosed from
these stupifying earthly chains, that it is capable of infinite more vexation, or contentation,
in a higher and purer strain.

Therefore, we may conclude with the apostle, that all men by nature are miserable in life,
but infinitely more miserable in death.  Only the man who is in Jesus Christ, in whose spirit
Christ dwells, and hath made a temple of his body for offering up reasonable service in it,
that man only is happy in life, but far happier in death, happy that he was born, but infinitely
more happy that he was born mortal, born to die, for “if the body be dead because of sin, the
Spirit is life because of righteousness.” Men commonly make their accounts and calculate their
time so, as if death were the end of it.  Truly, it were happiness in the generality of men
that that computation were true, either that it had never begun, or that it might end here,
for that which is the greatest dignity and glory of a man—his immortal soul—it is truly the
greatest misery of sinful men, because it capacitates them for eternal misery. But if we make
our accounts right, and take the right period, truly death is but the beginning of our time,
of endless and unchangeable endurance either in happiness or misery, and this life in the body,
which is only in the view of the short sighted sons of men, is but a strait and narrow passage
into the infinite ocean of eternity, but so inconsiderable it is that, according as the spirit
in this passage is fashioned and formed, so it must continue for ever, for where the tree falleth,
there it lieth. There may be hope that a tree will sprout again, but truly there is no hope
that ever the damned soul shall see a spring of joy, and no fear that ever the blessed spirits
shall find a winter of grief. Such is the evenness of eternity, that there is no shadow of
change in it.

O then, how happy are they in whose souls this life is already begun, which shall then come
to its meridian, when the glory of the flesh falls down like withered hay into the dust! The
life as well as the light of the righteous is progressive. It is shining more and more till
that day come, the day of death, only worthy to be called the present day, because it brings
perfection, it mounts the soul in the highest point of the orb, and there is no declining from
that again. The spirit is now alive in some holy affections and motions, breathing upwards,
wrestling towards that point. The soul is now in part united to the Fountain of life, by loving
attendance and obedience, and it is longing to be more closely united. The inward senses are
exercised about spiritual things, but the burden of this clayey  mansion doth much dull and
damp them, and proves a great remora(205) to the spirit. The body indisposes and weakens the
soul much. It is life, as in an infant, though a reasonable soul be there, yet overwhelmed
with the incapacity of the organs. This body is truly a prison of restraint and confinement
to the soul, and often loathsome and ugly through the filthiness of sin, but when the spirit
is delivered from this necessary burden and impediment, O how lively is that life it then lives!
Then the life, peace, joy, love, and delight of the soul surmounts all that is possible here,
further than the highest exercise of the soul of the wisest men surpasses the brutish like
apprehensions of an infant, and indeed then the Christian comes to his full stature, and is
a perfect man when he ceaseth to be a man.

How will you not be persuaded, beloved in the Lord, to long after this life, to have Christ
formed in your hearts, for truly the generality have not so much as Christ fashioned in their
outward habit, but are within darkness and earthiness and wickedness, and without, impiety
and profanity. Will you not long for this life? For now you are dead while you live, as the
apostle speaks of widows that live in pleasure. The more the soul be satisfied with earthly
things, it is the deeper buried in the grave of the flesh, and the further separated from God.
Alas! many of you know no other life, than that which you now live in the body, you neither
apprehend what this new birth is, nor what the perfect stature of it shall be afterwards. But
truly while it is thus, you are but walking shadows, breathing clay, and no more. A godly man
used to calculate the years of his nativity from his second birth, his conversion to God in
Christ; and truly, this is the true period of the right calculation of life, of that life which
shall not see death. True life hath but one period, that is, the beginning of it, for end it
hath none. I beseech you, reckon your years thus, and I fear that you reckon yourselves, many
of you, yet dead in sins and trespasses. Is that life, I pray you, to eat, to drink, to sleep,
to play, to walk, to work? Is there any thing in all these worthy of a reasonable soul, which
must survive the body, and so cease from such things for ever? Think within yourselves, do
you live any other life than this? What is your life but a tedious and wearisome repetition
of such brutish actions which are only terminate on the body? O then, how miserable are you,
if you have no other period to reckon from than your birth-day! If there be not a second birth-day
before your burial, you may make your reckoning to be banished eternally from the life of God.

As for you, Christians, whom God hath quickened by the Spirit of his Son, be much in the exercise
of this life, and that will maintain and advance it. Let your care be about your spirits, and
to hearten you in this study, and to beget in you the hope of eternal life, look much and lay
fast hold on that life giving Saviour, who, by his righteous life and accursed death, hath
purchased by his own blood both happiness to us and holiness. Consider what debtors you are
to him who loved not his own life and spared it not, to purchase this life to us. Let our thoughts
and affections be occupied about this high purchase of our Saviour’s, which is freely bestowed
on them that will have it, and believe in him for it. If we be not satisfied with such a low
and wretched life as is in the body, he will give a higher and more enduring life, and only
worthy of that name.

Sermon XXX. Suppose the body should never taste of the fruits of it, but die and rise no more,
and never be awaked out of its sleep, yet it were a sufficient ground of engagement to godliness,
that the life and well being of the far better part in man is secured for eternity, which is
infinitely more than all things beside can truly promise us, or be able to perform. Certainly,
whatsoever else you give your hearts to, and spend your time upon, it either will leave you
in the midst of your days, and at your end you shall be a fool, or you must leave it in the
end of your days, and find yourselves as much disappointed, or, to speak more properly, because
when your time is ending your life and being is but at its beginning, you must bid an eternal
adieu to all these things whereupon your hearts are set when you are but beginning truly to
be. But this is only the proper and true good of the soul,—Christ in it,—most portable and
easily carried about with you, yea, that which makes the soul no burden to itself, and helps
it to carry all things easily,—and then most inseparable, for Christ in the soul is the spring
of a never-ending life, of peace, joy, and contentation in the fountain of an infinite goodness,
and it outwears time and age as well as the immortal being of the soul. Yea, such is the strength
of this consolation, that then the soul is most closely united and fully possessed of that
which is its peculiar and satisfying good, when it leaves the body in the dust, and escapes
out of this prison unto that glorious liberty.

But yet, there is besides this an additional comfort comprehended in the verse read,—that the
sleep of the body is not perpetual, that it shall once be awakened and raised up to the fellowship
of this glory, for though a man should be abundantly satisfied if he possess his own soul,
yet no man hateth his own flesh. The soul hath some kind of natural inclination to a body suitable
unto it, and in this it differs from an angel, and, therefore, the apostle, when he expresseth
his earnest groan for the intimate presence of his soul with Christ, he subjoins this correction—not
that we desire to be unclothed, but clothed upon it, 2 Cor. v. 1-4. If it were possible, says
he, we would be glad to have the society of the body in this glory, we would not desire to
cast off those clothes of flesh, but rather that the garment of glory might be spread over
all, if it were not needful because they are old and ragged and would not suit well, and our
earthly tabernacle is ruinous, and would not be fit for such a glorious guest to dwell into,
and therefore, it is needful to be taken down. Well, then, here is an overplus, and, as it
were, a surcharge of consolation, that seeing for the present it is expedient to put off the
present clothing of flesh, and take down the present earthly house,—yet that the day is coming
that the same clothes, renewed, shall be put on, and the same house repaired and made suitable
to heaven, shall be built up,—that this mortal body shall be quickened with that same spirit
that now quickens the soul, and makes it live out of the body, and so the sweet and beloved
friends, who parted with so much pain and grief, shall meet again with so much pleasure and
joy, and, as they were sharers together in the miseries of this life, shall participate also
in the blessedness of the next,—like Saul and Jonathan, “lovely and pleasant in their lives,”
and though for a time separated in death, yet not always divided. Now this is the highest top
of happiness, to which nothing can be added. It is comprehensive of the whole man, and it is
comprehensive of all that can be imagined to be the perfective good of man.

It is no wonder, then, that the apostle reckons this doctrine of the resurrection amongst the
foundations of Christianity (Heb. v. 1, 2), for truly these two—the immortality of the soul
and the resurrection of the mortal body—are the two ground-stones or pillars of true religion,
which, if they be not well settled in the hearts of men, all religion is tottering and ruinous
and unable to support itself. That the soul cannot taste death or see corruption, and that
the body shall but taste it, and, as it were, salute it, and cannot always abide under the
power of it, these are the prime foundations upon which all Christian persuasion is built.
For without these be laid down in the lowest and deepest part of the heart, all exhortations
to an holy and righteous life are weak and ineffectual, all consolations are empty and vain.
In a word, religion is but an airy speculation, that hath no consistence but in the imaginations
of men,—it is a house upon sand, that can abide no blast of temptation, no wave of misery,
but must straightway fall to the ground. From whence is it, I pray you, that the persuasions
of the gospel have so little power upon men,—that the plain and plentiful publication of a
Saviour is of so small virtue to stir up the hearts of men to take hold on him? How comes it
to pass that the precepts and prohibitions of the most high God, coming forth under his authority,
lay so little restraint on men’s corruptions,—that so few will be persuaded to stop their course,
and come off the ways that they are accustomed to,—that men pull away the shoulder and stop
the ear, and make their hearts as adamant, incapable of being affected with either the authority
or love of the gospel,—that when he pipes unto us so few dance, and when he mourns so few lament?
Is it not because these two foundations are not laid, and men’s hearts not digged deep by earnest
consideration to receive these ground-stones of Christianity,—the belief of their souls, eternal
survivance after the dust, and of the revivance and resurrection of the body, after it hath
slept a while in the dust? I remember heathens have had some noble and rare conceptions about
virtue, and some have laboured to enamour men with the native beauty of it, and to persuade
them that it was a sufficient reward to itself.(206) And truly it would far more become a Christian,—who
knoweth the high and divine pattern of holiness to be God himself, and so must needs behold
a far surpassing beauty and excellency in the image of God than in all earthly things,—I say,
it would become him to accustom himself to a dutiful observance of religion, even without any
respect to the reward of it. He would train his heart to do homage to God out of a loyal affection
and respect to his majesty, and from the love of the very intrinsic beauty of obedience, without
borrowing always from such selfish considerations of our own happiness or misery. Notwithstanding,
such is the posture of man’s spirit now, that he cannot at all be engaged to the love of religion,
except some seen advantage conciliate it, and therefore the Lord makes use of such selfish
principles in drawing men to himself, and keeping them still with him. And, truly, considering
man’s infirmity, this is the spirit and life of all religion—immortality and resurrection—that
which gives a lustre to all and quickens all, that which makes all to sink deep, and that which
makes a Christian steadfast and immoveable, 2 Cor. v. 8. It is certainly hope that is the key
of the heart, that opens and shuts it to any thing. Hence the apostle Peter (1 Epistle) first
blesseth God heartily for the new birth, and, in expressing of it, makes hope the very term
of that generation, and so it must be a substantial thing. “Blessed be God, who hath begotten
us again to a lively hope.” Hope hath a quickening power in it. It makes all new where it comes,
and is full of spirit. It is the helmet and anchor of a Christian, that which bears the dint
of temptation and makes him steady in religion. No man will put his plough in this ground,
or sow unto the Spirit, but in hope, for he that soweth must sow in hope, else his plough will
not go deep. 1 Cor. ix. 10. This then is the very spirit and life of religion,—the resurrection
of the dead,—without which our faith were in vain, and men would continue still in their sins.
Certainly it is the deep inconsideration of this never ending endurance of our souls, and restitution
of our bodies to the same immortality, that makes the most part of men so slight and superficial
in religion, else it were not possible, if that were laid to heart, but men would make religion
their business, and chief business.

We have here the two genuine causes of the resurrection of the bodies of Christians,—the resurrection
of Christ and the inhabitation of his Spirit. The influence that the resurrection of Christ
hath on ours, is lively and fully holden out by this apostle, 1 Cor. xv., against them who
deny the resurrection from the dead: “If Christ be not raised, your faith is in vain, you are
yet in your sins, and they that are asleep are perished.” Religion were nothing but a number
of empty words of show, preaching were a vanity and imposture, faith were a mere fancy, if
this be not laid down as the ground stone,—Christ raised, not as a natural person, but as a
common politic person, as the first-fruits of them that sleep, ver. 17-20, where he alludes
to the ceremony of offering the first-fruits of their harvest, Lev. xxiii. 10. For under the
law they might not eat of the fruits of the land till they were sanctified. All was counted
profane till they were some way consecrated to the Lord. Now, for this end, the Lord appointed
them to bring one sheaf for all, and that was the representative of all the rest of the heap,
and this was waved before the Lord, and lifted up from the earth. Now, according to the apostle’s
argument, Rom. xi. 16, “If the first fruits be holy, so is the lump,” for it represents all
the lump, and therefore Jesus Christ, the chief of all his brethren, was made the first fruits
from the dead, and lifted up from the grave, as the representer of all the lump of his elect,
and so it must needs follow, that they shall not continue in the grave, but must in due time
partake of that benefit which he has first entered in possession of, in their name, and for
them. For if this first fruits be holy, so the whole lump must be holy, and if the first fruits
be risen, so must the lump. You see then the force of the present reason, “If the Spirit that
raised Christ dwell in you,” he shall also raise you, namely, because he raised up Christ the
very first fruits of all the rest, so that Christ’s resurrection is a sure pledge and token
of yours, and both together are the main basis and ground work of all our hope and salvation,
the neglect and inconsideration whereof makes the most part of pretended Christians to walk
according to that Epicurean principle, “Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we shall die.”
As if there were no life to come, they withhold nothing from their carnal minds that can satisfy
or please their lusts. But for you who desire a part in this resurrection, and dare scarcely
believe so great a thing, or entertain such a high hope, because of the sight of your unworthiness,
as you would be awakened by this hope to “righteousness, and to sin no more” verse 34th of
that chapter, so you may encourage yourselves to that hope by the resurrection of Christ, for
it is that which hath the mighty influence to beget you to a lively hope, 1 Pet. i. 3. Look
upon this as the grand intent, and special design of Christ’s both dying and rising again,
that he might be the first-fruits to sanctify all the lump. Nevertheless, it is not the desert
of your bodies, for they are often a great impediment and retardment to the spirit, and lodge
the enemy within their walls, when he is chased out of the mind by the law of the Spirit of
life, but it is the great design of God, through the whole work of redemption, and the desert
of Christ your head, and therefore you may entertain that hope, but take heed to walk worthy
of it, and that it is, “if we have this hope, let us purify ourselves,” let us who believe
that we are risen with Christ, set our affections on things above, else we dishonour him that
is risen in our name, and we dishonour that temple of the Holy Ghost, which he will one day
make so glorious.

Sermon XXXI. As the first death is that which is spiritual, then that which is bodily, so the
first resurrection is of the spirit, then the second of the body, and these two have a connexion
together, therefore saith the apostle John, “Blessed are they who have part in the first resurrection,
for on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests to God,” &c. Rev. xx.
6. Although death must seize on their bodies, yet the sting wherein the strength of it lies,
is taken away by Christ, that it hath no power to hurt him whose spirit is raised out of the
grave of sin. And truly it is hard to tell which is the greatest change, or the most difficult,
to raise a body out of corruption to life, or to raise a soul out of sin to grace. But both
are the greatest changes that can be, and shadowed out under the similitude of the greatest
in nature, for our conversion to God is a new birth, a new creation, and a resurrection in
scripture style, and so both require one and the same power, the almighty power of his Spirit.
“You who were dead in sins hath he quickened,” &c. O, what a notable change!  It maketh them
no longer the same men, but new creatures, and therefore it is the death of sin, and the resurrection
of the soul. For as long as it is under the chains of darkness and power of sin, it is free
among the dead, it is buried in the vilest sepulchre. Old graves, and these full of rottenness
and dead men’s bones, are nothing to express the lamentable case of such a soul, and yet such
are all by nature.   Whatsoever excellency or endowment men may have from their birth or education,
yet certainly they are but apparitions rather than any real substance, and which is worse,
their body is the sepulchre of their souls, and if the corruption of a soul were sensible,
we would think all the putrefactions of bodily things but shadows of it.   And therefore no
sooner is there any inward life begotten in a soul, but this is the very first exercise of
it, the abhorrency of the soul upon the sight and smell of its own loathsomeness.

Now, there is no hope of any reviving. Though all the wisdom and art of men and angels were
employed in this business, there is nothing able to quicken one such soul, until it please
the Lord to speak such a word as he did to Lazarus, “Arise, come forth,” and send his Spirit
to accomplish his word, and this will do it. When the Spirit cometh into the soul, he quickeneth
it, and this is the first resurrection. O blessed are they who have part in this, whose souls
are drawn out of the dungeon of darkness and ignorance, and brought forth to behold this glorious
light that shineth in the gospel, and raised out of the grave of the lusts of ignorance, to
live unto God henceforth, for such have their part in the second resurrection to life. For
you see these are conjoined, “If the Spirit dwell in you, he shall raise you,” &c. You see
here two grounds and reasons of the resurrection of body,—Christ’s rising and the Spirits indwelling.
Now I find these in the scripture made the two fountains of all Christianity, both of the first
and second resurrection.

The resurrection of Christ is an evidence of our justification, the cause of our quickening,
or vivification, and the ground and pledge of our last resurrection, and all these are grounds
of strong consolation. The first you have, Rom. iv. 25. “Christ died for our sins, and rose
for our justification,” and the 34th verse of this chapter, “Christ is dead, yea, rather has
risen again, who then shall condemn?” Here is a clear evidence, that he hath paid the debt
wholly, and satisfied justice fully. Since he was under the power of death, imprisoned by justice,
certainly he would not have won free, if he had not paid the uttermost farthing, therefore
his glorious resurrection is a sure manifestation of his present satisfaction—it is a public
acquittance and absolution of him from all our debt, and so by consequence, of all he died
for. For their debt was laid upon him, and now he is discharged. And therefore the believing
soul may tremblingly boast, who shall condemn me? For it is God that justifieth. Why? Because
all my sins were laid on Christ, and God hath in a most solemn manner acquitted and discharged
him from all, when he raised him from the dead, and therefore he cannot, and none other can
sue me, or prosecute a plea against me, since my Cautioner is fully exonered of this undertaking,
even by the great Creditor God himself. But then, his resurrection is a pawn or pledge of the
spiritual raising of the soul from sin, as the death of Christ is made the pledge of our dying
to sin, so his rising, of our living to God, Rom. vi. 4, 5. These are not mere patterns and
examples of spiritual things, but assured pledges of the divine virtue and power which he,
being raised again, should send abroad throughout the world. For, as there are coronation gifts
when kings are solemnly installed in office, so there are coronation mercies, triumphal gifts.
When Christ rose and ascended, he bestowed them on the world, Eph. iv. And certainly these
are the greatest, the virtue of his death to kill the old man, and the power of his resurrection
to quicken the new. And by faith, a believer is united and ingrafted into him, as a plant into
a choice stock, and by virtue and sap coming from Christ’s death and resurrection, he is transformed
into the similitude of both, he groweth into the likeness of his death, by dying to sin, by
crucifying these inward affections and inclinations to it, and he groweth up into the similitude
of his resurrection, by newness of life, or being alive to God, in holy desires and endeavours
after holiness and obedience. And thus the first resurrection of the soul floweth from Christ’s
resurrection.

But add unto this, that Christ’s rising is the pledge and pawn of the second resurrection,
that is, of the body, for he is the head, and we are the members. Now, it is the most incongruous,
that the head should rise and not draw up the members after him. Certainly he will not cease
till he have drawn up all his members to him. If the head be above water, it is a sure pledge
that the body will win out of the water, if the root be alive, certainly the branches will
out in spring time, they shall live also. There is that connexion between Christ and believers,
that wonderful communication between them, that Christ did nothing, was nothing, and had nothing
done to him, but what he did, and was, and suffered, personating them, and all the benefit
and advantage redounds to them. He would not be considered of as a person by himself, but would
rather be still taken in with the children. As for love he came down and took flesh to be like
them, and did take their sin and misery off them, and so was content to be looked upon by God
as in the plate of sinners, as the chief sinner, so he is content and desirous that we should
look on him as in the place of sinners, as dying, as rising for us, as having no excellency
or privilege incommunicable to us. And this was not hid from the church of old, but presented
as the grand consolation, “Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body they shall rise.”
And, therefore, may poor souls awake and sing. Though they must dwell in the dust, yet as the
dew and influence of heaven maketh herbs to spring out of the earth, so the virtue of this
resurrection shall make the earth, and sea, and air, to cast out and render their dead, Isa.
xxvi. 19. Upon what a sure and strong chain hangs the salvation of poor sinners? I wish Christians
might salute one another with this “Christ is risen, and so comfort one another with these
words,”—or rather, that every one would apply this cordial to his own heart, “Christ is risen,”
and you know what a golden chain this draweth after it, therefore we must rise and live.

The other cause, which is more immediate, and will actively accomplish it, is the Spirit dwelling
in us, for there is a suitable method here too. As the Lord first raised the head, Christ,
and will then raise the members, and he that doth the one cannot but do the other, so the Spirit
first raiseth the soul from the woful fall into sin, which killed us, and so maketh it a temple,
and the body too, for both are bought with a price, and, therefore, the Spirit possesseth both.
But the inmost residence is in the soul, and the bodily members are made servants of righteousness,
which is a great honour and dignity, in regard of that base employment they had once, and so
it is most suitable that he who hath thus dwelt in both repair his own dwelling-house. For
here it is ruinous, and, therefore, must be cast down. But because it was once a temple for
the holy God, therefore it will be repaired and built again. For he that once honoured it with
his presence will not suffer corruption always to dwell in it, for what Christ, by his humiliation
and suffering, purchased, the Spirit hath this commission to perform it; and what is it but
the restitution of mankind to a happier estate in the second Adam than ever the first was into?
Now, since our Lord who pleased to take on our flesh, did not put it off again, but admits
it to the fellowship of the same glory in heaven, in that he died, he dies no more, death hath
no more dominion over him, he will never be wearied or ashamed of that human clothing of flesh.
And, therefore, certainly that the children may be like the father, the followers, their captain,
the members not disproportioned to the head, the branches not different and heterogeneous to
the stock, and that our rising in Christ may leave no footstep of our falling, no remainder
of our misery, the Spirit of Christ will also quicken the mortal bodies of believers, and make
them like Christ’s glorious body.

This must be done with divine power,—and what more powerful than the Spirit? For it is the
spirits or subtile parts in all creatures that causeth all motions, and worketh all effects.
What then is that almighty Spirit not able to do? You have shadows of this in nature, yea,
convincing evidences for, what is the spring but a resurrection of the earth? Is not the world
every year renewed, and riseth again out of the grave of winter, as you find elegantly expressed,
Psalm cvii? And doth not the grains of seed die in the clods before they rise to the harvest,
1 Cor. xv. All the vicissitudes and alterations in nature give us a plain draught of this great
change, and certainly it is one Spirit that effects all.

But though there be the same power required to raise up the bodies of the godly and ungodly,
yet, O what infinite distance and difference in the nature and ends of their resurrections!
There is the resurrection of life, and the resurrection of condemnation, John v. 29. O! happy
they who rise to life that ever they died! But, O miserable, thrice wretched are all others
that they may not be dead for ever! The immortality of the soul was infinite misery, because
it is that which eternizes their misery, but when this overplus is added, the incorruptibility
of the body, and so the whole man made an inconsumable subject for that fire to feed upon perpetually,
what heart can conceive it without horror! And yet we hear it often without any such affection.
It is a strange life that death is the only refreshment of it, and yet this may not be had,
“they shall seek death, and it shall fly from them.” Now, my beloved, I would desire this discourse
might open way for the hearty and cordial entertainment of the gospel, and that you might be
persuaded to awake unto righteousness, and sin no more, 1 Cor. xv. 34. Be not deceived, my
brethren, “flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God.” Certainly, if you have no other
image than what you came into the world withal, you cannot have this hope, to be conformed
one day to the glorious body of Christ. What will become of you in that day, who declare now
by the continued vent of your hearts that this Holy Spirit dwells not in you? And, alas! how
many are such? Oh! pity yourselves, your souls and bodies both. If for love to your bodies
you will follow its present lusts, and care only for the things of the body, you act the greatest
enmity and hostility against your own bodies. Consider, I beseech you, the eternal state of
both, and your care and study will run in another channel. And for you who have any working
of the Spirit in you, whether convincing you of sin and misery, and of righteousness in Christ,
or sometimes comforting you by the word applied to your heart, or teaching you another way
than the world walks into, I recommend unto you that of the apostle’s, 1 Cor. xv. 58. “Wherefore,
my brethren be steadfast, &c. always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing your labour
is not in vain.”

Sermon XXXII.

    Verse 12.—“Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh,
    to live after the flesh,” &c.

All things in Christianity have a near and strait conjunction. It is so entire and absolute
a piece, that if one link be loosed all the chain falls to the ground, and if one be well fastened
upon the heart it brings all alongst with it. Some speak of all truths, even in nature, that
they are knit so together that any truth may be concluded out of every truth, at least by a
long circuit of deduction and reasoning. But whatsoever be of that, certainly religion is a
more entire thing, and all the parts of it more nearly conjoined together, that they may mutually
enforce one another. Precepts and promises are thus linked together, that if any soul lay hold,
indeed, upon any promise of grace, he draws alongst with it the obligation of some precept
to walk suitable to such precious promises. There is no encouragement you can indeed fasten
upon, but it will join you as nearly to the commandment; and no consolation in the gospel,
that doth not carry within its bosom an exhortation to holy walking. Again, on the other hand,
there is no precept but it should lead you straightway to a promise; no exhortation, but it
is environed before and behind with a strong consolation, to make it pierce the deeper, and
go down the sweeter. Therefore, you see how easily the apostle digresseth from the one to the
other,—how sweetly and pertinently these are interwoven in his discourse. The first word of
the chapter is a word of strong consolation, “There is no condemnation to them that are in
Christ,” and this like a flood carries all down with it,—all precepts and exhortations, and
the soul of a believer with them; and, therefore, he subjoins an exhortation to holy and spiritual
walking upon that very ground. And because commandments of this nature will not float (so to
speak) unless they have much water of that kind, and cannot have such a swift course except
the tide of such encouragements flow fast, therefore he openeth that spring again in the preceding
words, and letteth the rivers of consolation flow forth, even the hope of immortality and eternal
life; and this certainly will raise up a soul that was on ground, and carry him above in motion
of obedience; and, therefore, he may well, in the next place, stir them up to their duty, and
mind them of their obligation. “Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh.” To make
this the more effectual, he drops it in with affection, in a sweet compilation of love and
equality, brethren. There is nothing so powerful in persuasion as love; it will sweeten a bitter
and unpleasant reproof, and make it go down more easily though it maketh less noise than threatenings
and severity and authority; yet it is more forcible, for it insinuates itself, and in a manner
surpriseth the soul, and so preventeth all resistance. As when the sun made the traveller part
with his cloak,(207) whereas the wind and rain made him hold it faster; so affection will prevail
where authority and terror cannot; it will melt that which a stronger power cannot break. The
story of Elijah, 1 Kings xix. may give some representation of this. The Lord was not in the
strong wind, nor in the terrible earthquake, nor yet in the fire, but in the calm still voice.
The Lord hath chosen this way of publishing his grace in the gospel, because the sum of it
is love to sinners, and good will towards men. He holds it forth in the calm voice of love,
and those who are his ambassadors should be clothed with such an affection, if they intend
to prevail with men, to engage their affections. O! that we were possessed with that brotherly
love one towards another for the salvation one of another; especially, that the preachers of
the gospel might be thus kindly affectioned towards others, and that you would take it thus,
the calling you off the ways of sin as an act of the greatest love. But then consider the equality
of this obligation, for there is nothing pressed upon you but what lieth as heavily upon them
that presseth it. This debt binds all. O! that the ministers of the gospel could carry the
impression of this on their hearts, that when they persuade others they may withal persuade
themselves, and when they speak to others they may sit down among the hearers. If an apostle
of so eminent dignity levelleth himself in this consideration, “therefore, brethren, we are
debtors,”—how much more ought pastors and teachers to come in the same rank and degree of debt
and obligation with others. Truly this is the great obstruction of the success of the gospel,
that those who bind on burdens on others do not themselves touch them with one of their fingers,
and while they seem serious in persuading others, yet withal declare by their carriage that
they do not believe themselves what they bear upon others, so that preaching seemeth to be
an imposture, and affections in persuading of others to be borrowed, as it were, in a scene,
to be laid down again out of it. But then again, there is a misconceit among people that this
holy and spiritual walking is not of common obligation, but peculiar to the preachers of the
gospel. Many make their reckoning so, as if they were not called to such high aims and great
endeavours. But truly, my beloved, this is a thing of common concernment. The Holy Ghost hath
levelled us all in this point of duty, as he hath equally exalted all in the most substantial
dignities and privileges of the gospel. This bond is upon the highest and upon the lowest.
Greatness doth not exempt from it, and meanness doth not exclude from it. Though commonly great
persons fancy an immunity from the strictness of a holy conservation because of their greatness,
and often mean and low persons pretend a freedom from such a high obligation because of their
lowness, yet certainly all are debt bound this way, and must one day give account. You that
are poor and unlearned, and have not received great things of that nature from God, do not
think yourselves free, do not absolve yourselves, for there is infinite debt besides. You will
have no place for that excuse, that you had not great parts, were not learned, and so forth.
For as the obligation reaches you all, so there is as patent a way to the exercise of religion
in the poorest cottage as in the highest palace. You may serve God as acceptably in little,
as others may do in much. There is no condition so low and abject that layeth any restraint
on this noble service and employment. This jewel loses not its beauty and virtue, when it lieth
in a dunghill more than when it is set in gold.

But let us inquire further into this debt. “We are debtors,” saith he, and he instanceth what
is not the creditor, by which he giveth us to understand who is the true creditor, not the
flesh, and, therefore, to make out the just opposition, it must be the Spirit. We are debtors,
then, to the Spirit. And what is the debt we owe to him? We may know it that same way, we owe
not to the flesh so much as to make us live after its guidance and direction, and fulfil its
lusts. Then, by due consequence, we owe so much to the Spirit, as that we should live after
the Spirit, and resign ourselves wholly to him, his guidance and direction. There is a twofold
kind of debt upon the creature, one remissible and pardonable, another irremissible and unpardonable,
(so to speak,) the debt of sin, and that is the guilt of it, which is nothing else than the
obligation of the sinner over to eternal condemnation by virtue of the curse of God. Every
sinner cometh under this debt to divine justice, the desert of eternal wrath, and the actual
ordination by a divine sentence to that wrath. Now, indeed, this debt was insoluble to us,
and utterly unpayable until God sent his Son to be our cautioner, and he hath paid the debt
in his own person, by bearing our curse, and so made it pardonable to sinners, obtained a relaxation
from that woful obligation to death. And this debt, you see, is wholly discharged to them that
are in Christ, by another sentence repealing the former curse,—ver. 1 “There is no condemnation
to them that are in Christ.” But there is another debt, which I may call a debt of duty and
obedience, which, as it was antecedent to sin, even binding innocent Adam, so the obligation
of the debt of sin hath been so far from taking it away that it is rather increased exceedingly,
and this debt is unpardonable and indispensable. The more of the debt of sin be pardoned, and
the more the curse be dispensed with, the more the sinner owes of love and obedience to God.
“She loved much, because much was forgiven,”—and the more was forgiven of sin the more she
owed of love, and the more debt was discharged the more she was indebted to him. And, therefore,
after this general acquittance of all believers, ver. 1, he presseth this obligation the more
strongly. “Therefore, brethren, we are debtors.” It is like that debt spoken of, Rom. xiii.,
“Owe no man any thing, but love one another,” which is not meant that it is unlawful to be
debtors to men, but rather, what ye owe, or all things else, pay it, and ye are free. Your
debt ceases and your bond is cancelled. But as for the debt of love and benevolence, you must
so owe that to all men, as never to be discharged of it, never to be freed from it. When you
have done all this hath no limitation of time or action, even so it is here. Other debts when
paid, men cease to be debtors, then they are free, but here the more he pays the more he is
bound to pay,—he oweth, and he oweth eternally. His bond is never cancelled as long as he continues
a creature subsisting in God, and abides a redeemed one in Christ. For these continuing, his
obligation is eternally recent and fresh as the first day. And this doth not at all obscure
the infinite grace of God, or diminish the happiness of saints, that they are not freed from
this debt of love and obedience, but rather illustrates the one and increases the other, for
it cannot be supposed to consist with the wisdom and holiness of God to loose his creature
from that obligation of loving obedience and subjection, which is essential to it, and it is
no less repugnant to the happiness of the creature to be free from righteousness unto sin.

Now, this debt of duty and obedience hath a threefold bond, which because they stand in vigour
uncancelled for all eternity, therefore the obligation arising from them is eternal too. The
bond of creation, the bond of redemption, and the bond of sanctification, these are distinguished
according to the persons of the Trinity, who appear most eminently in them.

We owe our being to the father, in whom “we live and move and have our being, for he made us,
and not we ourselves, and we are all the works of his hands.” Now, the debt accruing from this
is infinite. If men conceive themselves so much obliged to others for a petty courtesy as to
be their servants,—if they owe more to their parents, the instruments of their bringing forth
into the world, O how infinitely more owe we to God, of whom we are, and have all! Doth the
clay owe so much to the potter, who doth not make it, but fashion it only? And what owe we
to him that made us of nothing, and fashioned us while we were yet without form! Truly, all
relations, all obligations evanish when this cometh forth, because all that a man hath is less
than himself, than his immortal spirit, and that he oweth alone to God. And besides, whatsoever
debt there is to other fellow creatures in any thing, God is the principal creditor in that
bond. All the creatures are but the servants of this King, which at his sole appointment bring
along his gifts unto us, and, therefore, we owe no more to them than to the hands of the messenger
that is sent. Now, by this account nothing is our own, not ourselves, not our members, not
our goods, but all are his, and to be used and bestowed, not at the will and arbitriment of
creatures, but to be absolutely and solely at his disposal who hath the sole sovereign right
to them and, therefore, you may take up the heinousness of sin, how monstrous and misshapen
a thing it is, that breaks this inviolable law of creation, and withdraws the creature from
subjection to him, in whom alone it can subsist. O how disordered are the courses and lives
of men! Men living to themselves, their own lusts, after their own will, as if they had made
themselves. Men using their members as weapons of unrighteousness against God, as if their
tongues, and hands, and feet were their own, or the devils, and not God’s. Call to mind this
obligation, “remember thy Creator.” That memento would be a strong engagement to another course
than most take. How absurd would you think it to please yourselves in displeasing him, if you
but minded the bond of creation! But when there are other two superadded, what we owe to the
Son for coming down in the likeness of sinful flesh for us, and what we owe to the Holy Ghost
for quickening our spirits, and afterward for the resurrection of our bodies, whose hearts
would not these overcome and lead captive to his love and obedience?

Sermon XXXIII.

    Verses 12, 13.—“Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the
    flesh, to live after the flesh; for if ye live after the flesh, ye
    shall die,” &c.

Was that not enough to contain men in obedience to God—the very essential bond of dependence
upon God as the original and fountain of his being! And yet man hath cast away this cord from
him, and withdrew from that allegiance he did owe to his Maker, by transgressing his holy commandments.
But God, not willing that all should perish, hath confirmed and strengthened that primitive
obligation by two other as strong if not more. If the Father did most eminently appear in the
first, the Son is manifested in the second, and that is the work of the redemption of man,
no less glorious than his first creation. He made him first, and then he sent his own Son in
the likeness of sinful flesh, to make him again by his Spirit, and now a threefold cord is
not easily broken. It seems this should bind invincibly, and constrain us not to be our own,
but the Lord’s, and now truly, they who are in Jesus Christ, are thrice indebted wholly to
God. But the two last obligations are the most special and most wonderful, that God sent his
Son for us, to redeem us from sin and misery, and to restore man to happiness took on a miserable
and accursed habit,—that so glorious a person gave himself for so base an one,—that so excellent
a Lord became a servant for the rebel,—that he whose the earth is, and the fulness thereof,
did empty himself of all to supply us,—and in a word, the most wonderful exchange be made that
ever the sun saw, God for men, his life a ransom for their life. All the rare inventions and
fancied stories of men come infinitely short of this. The light never saw majesty so abased
and love so expressed as in this matter, and all to this purpose, that we who had undone ourselves
might be made up again, and the righteousness of the law fulfilled in us. At first he made
us, but it cost him nothing but a word, but now, to buy that which was taken captive by sin,
and at so dear a rate,—“ye are bought with a price, and this price more precious than the sum
of heaven and earth could amount to.” Suppose by some rare alchemy the earth were all converted
into gold, and the heavens into precious stones, yet these corruptible and material things
come as far short of this ransom as a heap of dung is unproportioned to a mass of gold or heap
of jewels. Now, you that are thus bought, may ye not conclude, “therefore we are debtors,”
and whereof? Of ourselves, for we, our persons, estates, and all were sold, and all are bought
with this price, therefore we are not our own, but the Lord’s, and, therefore, we ought to
“glorify God in our bodies and spirits which are his,” 1 Cor. vi. 20. Should we henceforth
claim an interest and propriety in ourselves? Should we have a will of our own? Should we serve
ourselves with our members? O how monstrous and absurd were that! Certainly, a believing heart
cannot but look upon that as the greatest indignity and vilest impiety that ever the sun shined
upon. Ingratitude hath a note of ignominy, even among heathens, put upon it. They esteemed
the reproach of it the compend of all reproaches, ingratum si dixeris, omnia dixeris. And truly
it hath the most abominable visage of any vice, yea, it is all sins drawn through other(208)
in one table. Certainly a godly heart cannot but account this execrable and detestable, henceforth
to have any proper and peculiar will and pleasure, and cannot but devote itself wholly to his
will and pleasure, for whose pleasure all were first created, and who then redeemed us by the
blood of his Son. I wish we could have this image of ingratitude always observant to our eyes
and minds when we are enticed with our lusts to study our own satisfaction. But there is another
bond superadded to this, which mightily aggravates the debt. He hath given us his Spirit to
dwell within, as well as his Son for us. And O the marvellous and strange effects that this
Spirit hath in the favours of men! He truly repairs that image of God which sin broke down.
He furnisheth the soul and supplies it in all its necessities. He is a light and life to it,—a
spring of everlasting life and consolation. So that to the Spirit we owe that we are made again
after his image, and the precious purchase of Christ applied unto our souls. For him hath our
Saviour left to execute his latter will in behalf of his children. And these things are but
the first-fruits of the Spirit. Any peace, or joy, or love, or obedience, are but an earnest
of that which is coming. We shall be yet more beholden to him. When the walls of flesh are
taken down, he will carry forth the soul into that glorious liberty of the sons of God, and
not long after he shall quicken our very dust, and raise it up in glory to the fellowship of
that happiness. Now, my beloved, consider what all this tends to,—mark the inference you should
make from it. “Therefore we are debtors,” debtors indeed, under infinite obligations for infinite
mercies. But what is the debt we owe? Truly it might be conceived to be some rare thing, equivalent
to such unconceivable benefits. But mark what it is, “To live after the Spirit, and not after
the flesh,” to conform our affections and actions, and the tenor of our way and course to the
direction of the Spirit, to have our spirits led and enlightened by the Holy Spirit, and not
to follow the indictment of our flesh and carnal minds. Now, truly, it is a wonder that it
is no other thing than this, for this is no other thing than what we owe to ourselves, and
to our own natures, so to speak, for truly there is a conformity and suitableness of some things
to the very nature of man that is beautiful,—some things are decent and becomes it, other things
are undecent and uncomely, unsuitable to the very reasonable being of man, so that they put
a stain and blot upon it.

Now, indeed, there is nothing can be conceived more agreeable to the very constitution of man’s
nature than this, that the far better and more excellent part should lead and command, and
the baser and earthly part should obey and follow. That the flesh should minister and serve
the spirit, “doth not even nature itself teach it?” And yet no heavier yoke is put upon us
than what our own nature hath put upon us already, which indeed is wonderful! And certainly
this wonderful attempering of his laws unto the very natural exigence of the spirit of man,
makes the transgression of them so much the more heinous.

Now, all these three forementioned bonds do jointly bind on this law upon man. In general they
oblige strongly to subjection and obedience to the will of God, but particularly, they have
a constraining influence upon this living “after the Spirit,” and not “after the flesh.” Our
very creation speaks this forth, when God made man after his own image, when he beautified
the spirit of man with that divine similitude and likeness, in that he breathed a spirit from
heaven, and took a body out of the dust, and then exalted that heavenly piece to some participation
of his own nature. Doth not all this cry aloud upon us, that the order of creation is now dissolved,—that
the beauty of it is marred,—that all is turned upside down,—when men’s passions and senses
are their only guides, and the principles of light in their conscience are choked and stifled?
Doth not all this teach us plainly that we should not “live after the flesh,”—that we owe not
so much to this brutish part as to enthrone it and empower it over us,—that it were vilest
anarchy, and most intolerable confusion and usurpation, to give it the power over us, as most
men do,—that there can be no order or beauty in man till the spirit be unfettered from the
chains of fleshly lusts, and restored to the native dignity, and so keep the body in subjection?
And, indeed, Paul was so, 1 Cor. ix. 27. “I keep my body in subjection, and beat it down, because
it is an imperious slave,—an usurping slave,—and will command, if not beaten and kept under.”

Again, Christ, hath put a bond upon us to this very same. He hath strengthened this obligation
with a new cord, in that he gave his precious life a ransom for the souls of men. This was
the principal thing he paid for—the body only being an accessory and appendix to the soul—for
it is said, “The redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever,” Psal. xlix.
8, and, “What can a man give in exchange for his soul,” Mark viii. 37. For what material thing
can equalize a spirit? Many things may be had more precious and fine than the body, but all
of them have no proportion to a spiritual being. Now, then, in that so dear a ransom, and so
infinite a price must be given for the spirit of man, it declares the infinite worth and excellency
of it above the body, and above all visible things. And here is, indeed, the greatest confirmation
that can be imagined. God hath valued it, he hath put the soul of man in the balance, to find
something equal in weight of dignity and worth and when all that is in heaven and earth is
put in the other scale, the soul is down weight by far. There is such distance that there is
no proportion; only the life and blood of his own Son weighs it down, and is an overvalue,
and thus, in our redemption, we have a visible demonstration—as it were—of the infinite obligation
of this law, not to live after that contemptible part, our flesh, but to follow after the motions
and directions of an enlightened spirit, not to spend our thoughts, care, and time, upon the
body, and making provision for the lusts thereof—as most men do, and all by nature are now
inclined to do—but to be taken up with the immortal precious jewel that is within, how to have
it rubbed and cleansed from all the filth that sin and the flesh hath cast upon it, and restored
to that native beauty, the image of God in righteousness and holiness. If you, in your practice
and affection, turn the scales otherwise, and make the body and things of the body, suppose
the whole world, down-weight in your affection and imagination, you have plainly contradicted
the just measure of the sanctuary, and, in effect, you declare that “Christ died in vain,”
and gave his life out of an error and mistake of the worth of the soul. You say he needed not
have given such a price for it, seeing every day you weigh it down with every trifle of momentary
fleshly satisfaction.

Lastly, The Spirit binds this fast upon us, for the soul of man he hath chosen for his habitation,
and there he delights to dwell, in the heart of the contrite and humble, and this he intends
to beautify and garnish, and to restore it to that primitive excellency it once had.  The spirit
of man is nearer his nature, and more capable of being conformed unto it, and therefore his
peculiar and special work is about our spirits.  First, to enlighten and convince them, then,
to reform and direct them and lead them, and this binds as forcibly, and constraineth a believer
certainly to resign himself to the Spirit, to study how to order his walk after that direction,
and to be more and more abstracted from the satisfaction of his body; else he cannot choose
but grieve the Spirit, his best friend, which alone is the fountain of joy and peace to him,
and being grieved, cannot but grieve himself next.

Now, my beloved, consider, if you owe so much to the flesh, whether or not it be so steadable(209)
and profitable unto you?  And if you think it can give you a sufficient reward to compense
all your pains in satisfying it, go on, but, I believe, you can reckon no good office that
ever it did you, and your expectation is less. What fruit have you of all, but shame and vexation
of conscience? And what can you expect but death, the last fruits of it? What then do you owe
unto it? Are you debtors to its pleasure and satisfaction, which hath never done you good,
and will do you eternal hurt? Consider whether you are so much bound and obliged to it as to
lose your souls for it, (one of them must be,) and whether or not you be not more obliged to
God the Father, and his Son Jesus Christ, to “live after the Spirit,” though for the present
it should be painful to beat down your body.  You are debtors indeed, but you owe nothing to
the flesh but stripes and mortification.

Sermon XXXIV.  For since he hath by his first creation implanted in man’s soul such a principle
as moveth itself upon the presentation of good or evil, that this might not be in vain, he
administers all the dispensations of the law and gospel in a way suitable to that, by propounding
such powerful motives as may incline and persuade the heart of man.  It is true, there’s a
secret drawing withal necessary, the pull of the Father’s arm and power of the Holy Ghost,
yet that which is visible or sensible to the soul is the framing of all things so as to engage
it upon rational terms. It is set between two contraries, death and life,—death which it naturally
abhorreth, and life which it naturally loveth. An even balance is holden up before the light
of the conscience, in which obedience and sin are weighed, and it is found even to the convincing
of the spirit of man, that there are as many disadvantages in the one as advantages in the other.

This was the way that God used first with man in paradise. You remember the terms run so,—“’What
day thou eatest thou shalt die.” He hedged him in on the one side by a promise of life, on
the other by a threatening of death. And these two are very rational restraints, suited to
the soul of man, and in the inward principles of it, which are a kind of instinct to that which
is apprehended good or gainful.

Now, this verse runs even so in the form of words “If ye live after the flesh ye shall die.”
You see this method is not changed under the gospel, for, indeed, it is natural to the spirit
of man, and he hath now much more need of all such persuasions, because there is a great change
of man’s inclination to the worst side.  All within is so disordered and perverse that a thousand
hedges of persuasive grounds cannot do that which one might have done at first. Then they were
added out of superabundance, but now out of necessity,—then they were set about man to preserve
him in his natural frame and inclinations, but now they are needful to change and alter them
quite, which is a kind of creation, therefore saith David, “create in me a new spirit,” and,
therefore, the gospel abounds in variety of motives and inducements, in greater variety, of
far more powerful inducements than the law. Here is that great persuasion taken from the infinite
gain or loss of the soul of man, which, if any thing be able to prevail, this must do, seeing
it is seconded with some natural inclination in the soul of man to seek its own gain.  Yet
there is a difference between the nature of such like promises and threatenings in the first
covenant and in the second. In the first covenant, though life was freely promised, yet it
was immediately annexed to perfect obedience as a consequent reward of it. It was firstly promised
unto complete righteousness of men’s persons.  But in the second covenant, firstly and principally
life eternal, grace and glory is promised to Jesus Christ and his seed, antecedent to any condition
or qualification upon their part. And then again, all the promises that run in way of condition,
as, “He that believeth shall not perish,” &c., “If ye walk after the Spirit, ye shall live.”
These are all the consequent fruits of that absolute gracious disposition and resignation of
grace and life to them whom Christ hath chosen. And so their believing, and walking, and obeying,
cometh in principally as parts of the grace promised, and as witnesses and evidences and confirmations
of that life which is already begun, and will not see an end. Besides that, by virtue of these
absolute promises made to the seed of Christ, and Christ’s complete performance of all conditions
in their name, the promises of life are made to faith principally, which hath this peculiar
virtue to carry forth the soul to another’s righteousness and sufficiency, and to bottom it
upon another and in the next place, to holy walking, though mixed with many infirmities, which
promise, in the first covenant, was only annexed to perfect and absolute obedience.

You heard, in the preceding verse, a strong inducement taken from the bond, debt, and duty
we owe to the Spirit, to walk after it, and the want of all obligation to the flesh.  Now,
if honesty and duty will not suffice to persuade you, as you know in other things it would
do with any honest man, plain equity is a sufficient bond to him.  Yet, consider what the apostle
subjoins from the damage, and from the advantage which may of itself be the topics of persuasion,
and serves to drive in the nail of debt and duty to the head. If you will not take with this
debt you owe to the Spirit, but still conceive there is some greater obligation lying on you,
to care for your bodies and satisfy them, then, I say, behold the end of it, what fruit you
must one day reap of the flesh and service of sin. “If ye live after the flesh, you shall die.”
But then, consider the fruit you shall reap of the Spirit, and holy walking “you shall live.”
It is true the flesh may flatter you more for the present, but the end of it will lie bitter
as death, amplectitur ut strangulet, “the flesh embraces you that it may strangle you.”  And
so if you knew all well you would not think you owed it any thing but enmity and hatred and
mortification. If your duty will not move you, let the love of yourselves and your souls persuade
you, for it is an irrepealable statute: “The wages of sin is death.” Every way you choose to
fulfil the lusts of your flesh, and to make provision for it, neglecting the eternal welfare
of your souls, certainly it shall prove to you “the tree of the knowledge of good and evil,”
it shall be as the forbidden fruit, which instead of performing that which was promised will
bring forth death,—the eternal separation of the soul from God. Adam’s sin was a breviary or
epitome of the multiplied and enlarged sins of mankind. You may see in this tragedy all your
fortunes (so to speak,)—you may behold in it the flattering insinuations and deceitful promises
of sin and Satan, who is a liar and murderer from the beginning, and murdered man at first
by lying to him. You find the hook covered over with the varnished bait of an imaginary life
and happiness, satisfaction promised to the eye, to the taste, and to the mind. And upon these
enticements, man bewitched and withdrawn from his God, after these vain and empty shadows,
which, when he catched hold upon, he himself was caught and laid hold upon by the wrath of
God,—by death and all the miseries before it or after it. Now, here is the map of the world,—for
all that is in the world is but a larger volume of that same kind, “the lust of the eyes, the
lust of the flesh, and the pride of life!” Albeit they have been known and found to be the
notablest and grossest deceivers, and every man, after he hath spent his days in pursuit and
labour for them, is constrained to acknowledge at length, though too late, that all that is
in the world is but an imposture, a delusion, a dream, and worse, yet every man hearkens after
these same flatteries and lies that hath cast down so many wounded, and made so many strong
ones to fall by them. Every man trusts the world and his own flesh, as if they were of good
report and of known integrity. And this is men’s misery, that no man will learn wisdom upon
others expenses, upon the woful and tragical example of so many others, but go on as confidently
now, after the discovery of these deceivers, as if this were the first time they had made such
promises, and used such fair words to men. Have they not been these six thousand years almost
deluding the world? And have we not as many testimonies of their falsehood, as there have been
persons in all ages before us? After Adam hath tasted of this tree of pleasure and found another
fruit growing on it and that is death, should the posterity be so mad as to be meddling still
with the forbidden tree? And wherefore forbidden? Because destructive to ourselves.

Know then and consider, beloved in the Lord, that you shall reap no other thing of all your
labours and endeavours after the flesh, all your toiling and perplexing cares, all your excessive
pains in the making provision for your lusts, and caring for the body only, you shall reap
no other harvest of all, but death and corruption. Death, you think that is a common lot, and
you cannot eschew it however, nay, but the death here meant is of another sort, in respect
of which you may call death life. It is the everlasting destruction of the soul from the presence
of God and the glory of his power. It is the falling of that infinite weight of the wrath of
the Lamb upon you, in respect of which, mountains and hills will be thought light, and men
would rather wish to be covered with them, Rev. vi. 16. Suppose, now, you could swim in a river
of delights and pleasures, (which yet is given to none, for truly, upon a just reckoning, it
will be found that the anxiety, and grief, and bitterness, that is intermingled with all earthly
delights, swallows up the sweetness of them,) yet it will but carry you down ere you be aware,
into the sea of death and destruction, as the fish that swim and sport for a while in Jordan,
are carried down into the Dead sea of Sodom, where they are presently suffocated and extinguished,(210)
or, as a malefactor is carried through a pleasant palace to the gallows, so men walk through
the delights of their flesh, to their own endless torment and destruction.

Seeing then, my beloved, that your sins and lusts which you are inclined and accustomed to,
will certainly kill you, if you entertain them, then nature itself would teach you the law
of self-defence,—to kill, ere you be killed, to kill sin, ere it kill you,—to mortify the deeds
and lusts of the body, which abound among you, or they will certainly mortify you, that is,
make you die. Now, if self love could teach you this, which the love of God cannot persuade
you to, yet it is well, for being once led unto God, and moved to change your course, upon
the fear and apprehension of the infinite danger that will ensue. Certainly if you were but
a little acquainted with the sweetness of this life, and goodness of your God, you would find
the power of the former argument a debito, from debt and duty, upon your spirit. Let this once
lead you unto God, and you will not want that which will constrain you to abide, and never
to depart from him.

If you mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live. As sin decays, you increase and grow,
as sins die, your souls live, and it shall be a sure pledge to you of that eternal life. And
though this be painful and laborious yet consider, that it is but the cutting off of a rotten
member, that would corrupt the whole body, and the want of it will never maim or mutilate the
body, for you shall live perfectly when sin is perfectly expired, and out of life, and according
as sin is nearer expiring, and nearer the grave, your souls are nearer that endless life. If
this do not move us, what can be said next? What shall he do more to his vineyard?

Sermon XXXV. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are
    the sons of God.”

The life and being of many things consists in union,—separate them, and they remain not the
same, or they lose their virtue. It is much more thus in Christianity, the power and life of
it consists in the union of these things that God hath conjoined, so that if any man pretend
to one thing of it, and neglect the other, he hath really none of them. And to hold to the
subject in hand, there are three things, which, joined together in the hearts of Christians,
have a great deal of force: the duty of a Christian, and his reward, and his dignity. His work
and labour seems hard and unpleasant, when considered alone, but the reward sweetens it, when
it is jointly believed. His duty seems too high, and his labour great, yet the consideration
of the real dignity he is advanced unto, and privilege he has received, will raise up the spirit
to great and high attempts, and to sustain great labours. Mortification is the work and labour,
life, eternal life, is the reward. Following the Spirit is the Christian’s duty, but to be
the son of God, that is his dignity.

Mortification sounds very harsh at first. The hearts of men say, “It is a hard saying, who
can hear it?” And indeed I cannot deny but it is so to our corrupt nature, and therefore so
holden out in Scripture. The words chosen to press it express much pain and pains, much torment
and labour. It is not so easy and trivial a business to forsake sin, or subdue it, as many
think, who only think it easy because they have never tried it. It is a circumcision of the
foreskin of the heart, and you know how it disabled a whole city, (Gen. xxxiv.) and how it
enraged the heart of a tender mother, Exod. iv. 26. It is the excision or cutting off a member,
and these the most dear and precious, be it the right hand or right foot, which is a living
death, as it were, even to kill a man while he is alive. It is a new birth, and the pains and
throes of the birth are known. Regeneration certainly hath a travailing pain within it, insomuch
that Paul travailed in pain till it were accomplished in these, Gal. iv. 19. Though men conceive
sin in pleasure, yet they cannot be rid of that deadly burden without throes and pains, and
to half this work, or to be remiss or negligent in it, is as foolish and unwise as for a child
to stay long in the place of breaking forth, as the Lord complains of Ephraim, Hos. xiii. 13.
“He is an unwise son, for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking forth of children.”
It is one of the greatest follies, not to labour by all means to be rid of the encumbrances
of sin. Much violence offered to it, and a total resignation of ourselves to God, may be great
pain, but it is short pain, then the pleasure is greater and continues; but now Christians
lengthen their pain, and draw out their cross and vexation to a great extent, because they
deal negligently in the business, they suffer the Canaanites to live, and these are thorns
and briers in their sides continually. Then this business is called mortification, as the word
is here, and Col. iii. 5, which imports a higher degree of pain, for the agonies of death are
terrible, and to hold it out yet more, the most painful and lingering kind of death is chosen
to express it, crucifixion, Gal. v. 24. Now, indeed, that which makes the forsaking of sin
so grievous to flesh and blood, is the engagements of the soul to it, the oneness that is between
it and our natures, as they are now fallen, for you know pain ariseth upon the dissolution
or division of any thing that is continued or united, and these things that are so nearly conjoined,
it is hard to separate them without much violence. And truly, as the kingdom of heaven suffers
violence, so we must offer violence to ourselves, to our lusts and inclinations, who are almost
ourselves, and if you would be truly Christians, this must be your business and employment,
to cut off these things that are dearest unto you, to cast out the very idols your hearts sacrifice
unto, and if there be any thing more one with you than another, to endeavour to break the bond
with that, and to be at the furthest distance from it. It is easy to persuade men to forsake
some sins and courses that they are not much inclined to, and find not much pleasure or profit
by them. You may do that and be but dead in sins, but if you aim at true mortification indeed,
you would consider what are the chief idols and predominant inclinations of your heart, and
as to set yourself impartially against all known, so particularly against the most beloved
sin, because it interrupts most the communion of God, and separates from your Beloved, and
the dearer it be, the more dangerous certainly it is.

But to encourage and hearten you to this, I would have you look back to that former victory
that Christ hath gained in our name, and look about to the assistance you have for the present,
the Spirit to help you. Truly, my beloved, this will be a dead business, if you be not animated
and quickened by these considerations,—that Christ died to sin and lived to God, and that in
this he was a public person representing you, that so you may conclude with Paul, “I am crucified
with Christ,” Gal. ii. 20. “We are buried with him by baptism into his death,” Rom. vi. 4.
Consider that mystical union with Christ crucified, and life shall spring out of his cross,
out of his grave, to kill sin in you,—that the great business is done already, and victory
gained in our Head, “This is our victory, even faith.” Believe, and then you have overcome,
before you overcome, and this will help you to overcome in your own persons. And then, consider
and look round about to the strong helper you have, the Spirit. “If ye through the Spirit mortify,”
&c. Stronger is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Though he does not vent all
his power to you, yet you may believe that there is a secret latent virtue in the seed of grace,
that it cannot be whole overcome or conquered, and there is one engaged in the warfare with
us who will never leave us nor forsake us, who of set purpose withdraweth his help now and
then to discover our weakness to us, that we may cleave the faster to him, who never letteth
sin get any power or gather any strength, but out of wisdom to make the final victory the more
glorious. In a word, he leads us through weaknesses, infirmities, faintings,  wrestlings, that
his strength may be perfected in weakness,—that when we are weak, then we may be strongest
in him, 2 Cor. xii. 9. Our duty then is, to follow this Spirit wheresoever he leadeth us. Christ,
the captain of our salvation, when he went to heaven, sent the Spirit to be our guider, to
lead us thither where he is, and therefore we should resign and give up ourselves to his guidance
and direction. The nature of a creature is dependence, so the very essence of a Christian consists
in dependence and subordination to the Spirit of God. Nature itself would teach them that want
wisdom to commit themselves to those that have it, and not to carry the reins of their own
life themselves.

Truly, not only the sense of our own imperfection, of our folly and ignorance in these things
that belong to life, should make us willing to yield ourselves over to the Spirit of God, as
blind men to their leader, as children to their nurses, as orphans to their tutors;(211) but
also, because the Spirit is made our tutor and leader, Christ, our Father hath left us to the
Spirit in his latter will; and, therefore, as we have absolute necessity, so he hath both willingness
and ability, because it is his office. “O Lord, I know,” saith Jeremiah, “that the way of man
is not in himself; it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps,” Jer. x. 23. O it were
a great point of wisdom thus to know our ignorance and folly, and this is the great qualification
of Christ’s disciples, simple as children, as little children, as void of conceit of their
own wisdom, Mark x. 15. And this alone capacitates the soul to receive the impressions of wisdom;
as an empty table is fittest to write upon, so a soul emptied of itself; whereas self conceit
draweth a number of foolish senseless draughts in the mind that it cannot receive the true
image of wisdom. Thus, then, when a soul finds that it hath misled itself, being misguided
by the wild fire of its lusts, and hath hardly escaped perishing and falling headlong in the
pit, this disposes the soul to a willing resignation of itself to one wiser and powerfuller,
the Spirit of God; and so he giveth the Spirit the string of his affections and judgment to
lead him by, and he walketh willingly in that way to eternal life, since his heart was enlarged
with so much knowledge and love. And now, having given up yourselves thus, you would carefully
eye your Leader, and attend all his motions, that you may conform yourself to them. Whensoever
the Spirit pulleth you by the heart, draweth at your conscience, to drive you to prayer, or
any such duty, do not resist that pull, do not quench the Spirit, lest he let you alone, and
do not call you, nor speak to you. If you fall out thus with your Leader, then you must guide
yourselves, and truly you will guide it into the pit, if left to yourselves. Therefore make
much of all the impulses of your conscience, of all the touches and inward motions of light
and affection, to entertain these, and draw them forth in meditation and action, for these
are nothing else but the Spirit your leader plucking at you to follow him; and if you sit when
he riseth to walk, if you neglect such warnings, then you may grieve him, and this cannot but
in the end be bitterness to you. Certainly, many Christians are guilty in this, and prejudge
themselves of the present comfort and benefit of this inward anointing, that teacheth all things,
and of this bosom guide that leadeth in all truth; because they are so heavy and lumpish to
be led after him; they drive slowly, and take very much pressure and persuasion to any duty;
whereas we should accustom ourselves to willing and ready obedience upon the least signification
of his mind. Yea, and which is worse, we often resist the Holy Ghost. He draweth, and we hold
beloved sins;—he pulleth, and we pull back from the most spiritual duties. There is so much
perverseness and frowardness yet in our natures, that there needs the almighty draught of his
arm to make it straight, as there is need of infinite grace to pardon it.

Now, my beloved, if you have in your desires and affections resigned yourselves over to the
guidance of this Spirit, and this be your real and sincere endeavour to follow it, and in as
far as you are carried back, or contrary, by temptation and corruption, or retarded in your
motion, it is your lamentation before the Lord,—I say unto you, cheer your hearts, and lift
them up in the belief of this privilege conferred upon you: you “are the sons of God”—for he
giveth this tutor and pedagogue to none but to his own children. “As many as are led by the
Spirit of God, are the sons of God.” Suppose you cannot exactly follow his motions, but are
often driven out or turned back, yet hath not the Spirit the hold of your heart? Are you not
detained by the cord of your judgment and the law of your mind? And is there not some chain
fastened about your heart which maketh it outstrip the practice by desires and affections?
You are the sons of God. That is truly the greatest dignity and highest privilege, in respect
of which, all relations may blush and hide their faces. What are all the splendid and glistering
titles among men but empty shows and evanishing sounds in respect of this? To be called the
son of a gentleman, of a nobleman, of a king, how much do the sons of men pride themselves
in it? But, truly, that putteth no intrinsic dignity in the persons themselves,—it is a miserable
poverty to borrow praise from another, and truly he that boasts of his parentage, aliena laudat
non sua, he praiseth that which is another’s, not his own. But this dignity is truly a dignity,
it puts intrinsic worth in the person, and puts a more excellent spirit in them than that which
is in the world, as is said of Caleb, and, besides, it entitles to the greatest happiness imaginable.

Sermon XXXVI.

    Verses 14, 15.—“For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they
    are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of
    bondage again to fear,”, &c.

Children do commonly resemble their parents, not only in the outward proportion and feature
of their countenances, but also in the disposition and temper of their spirits, and generally
they are inclined to imitate the customs and carriage of their parents, so that they sometimes
may be accounted the very living images of such persons; and in them men are thought to outlive
themselves. Now, indeed, they that are the sons of God are known by this character, that they
are led by the Spirit of God. And there is the more necessity and the more reason, too, of
this resemblance of God and imitation of him in his children, because that very divine birth
that they have from heaven consists in the renovation of their natures and assimilation to
the divine nature, and, therefore, they are possessed with an inward principle that carries
them powerfully towards a conformity with their heavenly Father, and it becometh their great
study and endeavour to observe all the dispositions and carriage of their heavenly Father,
which are so honourable and high, and suitable to himself, that they at least may breathe and
halt(212) after the imitation of him. Therefore our Lord exhorts us, and taketh a domestic
example and familiar pattern to persuade us the more by, “Be ye perfect, as your heavenly Father
is perfect,” Matt. v. 48. And there is one perfection he especially recommends for our imitation,
mercifulness and compassion towards men, opposed to the violence, fury, and implacableness,
to the oppression, and revenge, and hatred that abounds among men, Luke vi. 36. And, generally,
in all his ways of holiness and purity, of goodness and mercy, we ought to be followers of
him as dear children, who are not only obliged by the common law of sympathy between parents
and children, but, moreover, engaged by the tender affection that he carrieth to us, Eph. v.
1. Now, because God is high as heaven, and his ways and thoughts and dispositions are infinitely
above us, the pattern seems to be so far out of sight that it is given over as desperate by
many to attempt any conformity to it. Therefore it hath pleased the Lord to put his own Spirit
within his own children, to be a bosom pattern and example, and it is our duty to resign ourselves
to his leading and direction. The Spirit brings the copy near hand us, and though we cannot
attain, yet we should follow after. Though we cannot make out the lesson, yet we should be
scribbling at it, and the more we exercise ourselves this way, setting the Spirit’s direction
before our eyes, the more perfect shall we be.

It is high time, indeed, to pretend to this, to be a son or a daughter of God. It is a higher
word than if a man could deduce his genealogy from an uninterrupted line of a thousand kings
and princes. There is more honour, true honour, in it, and profit too. It is that which enriches
the poorest, and ennobles the basest, inconceivably beyond all the imaginary degrees of men.
Now, my beloved, this is the great design of the gospel, to bestow this incomparable privilege
upon you, “to become the sons of God.” But it is sad to think how many souls scarce think upon
it, and how many delude themselves in it. But consider, that as many as are the sons of God,
are led by the Spirit of God,—they have gotten a new leader and guide, other than their own
fancy or humour, which once they followed in the ignorance of their hearts. It is lamentable
to conceive how the most part of us are acted,(213) and driven, and carried headlong, rather
than gently led, by our own carnal and corrupt inclinations. Men pretending to Christianity,
yet hurried away with every self-pleasing object, as if they were not masters of themselves,
furiously agitated by violent lusts, miscarried continually against the very dictates of their
own reason and conscience. And I fear there is too much of these even in those who have more
reason to assume this honourable title of sonship. I know not how we are exceedingly addicted
to self-pleasing in every thing. Whatsoever our fancy or inclination suggests to us, that we
must do without more bands, if it be not directly sinful. Whatsoever we apprehend, that we
must vent and speak it out, though to little or no edification. Like that of Solomon, we deny
our hearts nothing they desire, except the grossness of it restrain us. Now, certainly if we
knew what we are called to, who are the sons of God, we could not but disengage more with ourselves,
even in lawful things, and give over the conduct of our hearts and ways to the Spirit of our
Father whom we may be persuaded of, that he will lead us in the ways of pleasantness and peace.

Now, the special and peculiar operations of the Spirit are expressed in the following words.
There are some workings of the Spirit of God that are but introductory and subservient to more
excellent works, and, therefore, they are transient, not appointed to continue long, for they
are not his great intendment. Of this kind are those terrible representations of sin and wrath,
of the justice of God, which put the soul in a fear, a trembling fear, and while such a soul
is kept within the apprehension of sin and judgment, it is shut up, as it were, in bondage.
Now, though it be true, that in the conversion of a sinner, there is always something of this
in more or less degrees, yet because this is not the great design of the gospel, to put men
in fear, but rather to give them confidence, nor the great intendment of God in the dispensation
of the law, to bring a soul in bondage under terror, but rather, by the gospel, to free them
from that bondage, therefore he hath reason to express it thus: “Ye have not received the spirit
of bondage again to fear,” &c. But there are other operations of the Spirit, which are chiefly
intended, and principally bestowed, as the great gift of our Father, to express his bounty
and goodness towards us, and from these he is called the Spirit of adoption, and the Spirit
of intercession. The Spirit of adoption, not only in regard of that witness-bearing and testification
to our consciences of God’s love and favour, and our interest in it, as in the next verse,
but also in regard of that child-like disposition of reverence and love and respect that he
begets in our hearts towards God, as our Father. And from both these flows this next work,
“crying, Abba, Father,” aiding and assisting us in presenting our necessities to our Father,
making this the continued vent of the heart in all extremities, to pour out all that burthens
us in our Father’s bosom. And this gives marvellous ease to the heart, and releases it from
the bondage of carefulness and anxiety, which it may be subject to, after the soul is delivered
from the fear and bondage of wrath.

Let us speak, then, to these in order. The first working of the Spirit is, to put a man in
fear of himself, and such a fear as mightily straitens and embondages the soul of man. And
this, though in itself it be neither so pleasant nor excellent as to make it come under the
notion of any gift from God, it having rather the nature of a torment and punishment, and being
some sparkle(214) of hell already kindled in the conscience, yet, hath made it beautiful and
seasonable in its use and end, because he makes it to usher in the pleasant and refreshing
sight of a Saviour, and the report of God’s love to the world in him. It is true, all men are
in bondage to sin and Satan, and shut up in the darkness of ignorance and unbelief, and bound
in the fetters of their own lusts, which are as the chains that are put about malefactors before
they go to prison. “He that commits sin, is a servant of sin,” John vii. 34. And to be a servant
of sin is slavery under the most cruel tyrant. All these things are, yet how few souls do apprehend
it seriously, or are weary of their prison! How few groan to be delivered! Nay, the most part
account it only liberty, to hate true delivery as bondage. But some there are, whose eyes the
Spirit of God opens, and lets them see their bondage and slavery, and how they are concluded
under the most heavy and weighty sentence that ever was pronounced,—the curse and wrath of
the everliving God, that there is no way to flee from it, or escape it, for any thing they
can do or know. 120. Such a serious representation will make the stoutest and proudest heart
to fall down, and faint for fear of that infinite intolerable weight of deserved wrath, and
then the soul is in a sensible bondage, that before was in a real, but insensible bondage,—then
it is environed about with bitter accusations, with dreadful challenges,—then the law of God
arrests and confines the soul within the bounds of its own accusing conscience. And this is
some previous representation of that eternal imprisonment and banishment from the presence
of God. Albeit many of you are free from this fear, and enjoy a kind of liberty to serve your
own lusts, and are not sensible of any thraldom of your spirits, yet certainly the Lord will
sometime arrest you, and bring you to this spiritual bondage, when he shall make the iniquities
of your heels encompass you about, and the curses of his law surround you. When your conscience
accuseth, and God condemneth, it may be too late, and out of date.

Alas! then what will you do, who now put your conscience by,(215) and will not hearken to it
or be put in fear by any thing which can be represented to you? We do not desire to put you
in fear, where no fear is, but where there is infinite cause of fear, and when it is possible
that fear may introduce faith, and be the forerunner of these glad tidings that will compose
the soul. We desire only you may know what bondage you are really into, whether it be observed
or not, that you may fear, lest you be enthralled in the chains of everlasting darkness, and
so may be persuaded to flee from it before it be irrecoverable. What a vain and empty sound
is the gospel of liberty by a Redeemer, to the most part who do not feel their bondage? Who
believes its report, or cares much for it—because it is necessity that casts a beauty and lustre
upon it, or takes the scales off our eyes, and opens our closed ears?

Now for you, who either are, or have been, detained in this bondage, under the fearful apprehension
of the wrath of God, and the sad remembrance of your sins, know that this is not the prime
intent and grand business, to torment you, as it were, before the time. There is some other
more beautiful and satisfying structure to be raised out of this foundation. I would have you
improve it thus, to commend the necessity, the absolute necessity, of a Redeemer, and to make
him beautiful in your eyes. Do not dwell upon that, as if it were the ultimate or last work,
but know that you are called in this rational way, to come out of yourselves into this glorious
liberty of the sons of God, purchased by Christ, and revealed in the gospel. Know, “you have
not received the spirit of bondage” only “to fear,” but to drive you to faith in a Saviour.
And then you ought so to walk, as not to return to that former thraldom of the fear of wrath,
but believe his love.

Sermon XXXVII. Certainly it is the most rich subject, and most completely furnished with all
variety of delights to entertain a soul, that can be imagined. Yet, I must confess, while we
consult with the experience and practice of Christians, this bold assertion seems to be much
weakened, and too much ground is given to confirm the contrary misapprehensions of the world,
who take it to be a sullen, melancholic, and disconsolate life, attended with many fears and
sorrows. It is, alas! too evident, that many Christians are kept in bondage, almost all their
lifetime, through fear of eternal death. How many dismal representations of sin and wrath,
are in the souls of some Christians, which keep them in much thraldom? At least, who is it
that is not once and often brought in bondage after conversion, and made to apprehend fearfully
their own estate, who hath such constant uninterrupted peace and joy in the Holy Ghost, or
lies under such direct beams of divine favour, but it is sometimes eclipsed, and their souls
filled with the darkness of horror and terror? And truly the most part taste not so much sweetness
in religion as makes them incessant and unwearied in the ways of godliness. Yet, notwithstanding
of all this, we must vindicate Christianity itself, and not impute these things unto it which
are the infirmities and faults of the followers of it, who do not improve it unto such an use
or use it so far as in itself it is capable. Indeed, it is true that often we are brought to
fear again, yet withal it is certain that our allowance is larger, and that we have received
the Spirit, not to put us in bondage again to fear, but rather to seal to our hearts that love
of God, which may not only expel fear but bring in joy. I wish that this were deeply considered
by all of us, that there is such a life as this attainable,—that the word of God doth not deceive
us in promising fair things which it cannot perform, but that there is a certain reality in
the life of Christianity, in that peace and joy, tranquillity and serenity of mind that is
holden out, and that some have really found it, and do find it, and that the reason why all
of us do not find it in experience, is not because it is not, but because we have so little
apprehension of it and diligence after it. It is strange that all men who have pursued satisfaction
in the things of this life, being disappointed, and one generation witnessing this to another,
and one person to another, that, notwithstanding, men are this day as fresh in the pursuit
of that, as big in the expectations as ever. And yet, in this business of religion, and the
happiness to be found in it, though the oracles of God in all ages have testified from heaven
how certain and possible it is, though many have found it in experience and left it on record
to others, there is so slender belief of the reality and certainly of it, and so slack pursuit
of it, as if we did not believe it at all. Truly, my beloved, there is a great mistake in this,
and it is general too. All men apprehend other things more feasible and attainable than personal
holiness and happiness in it, but truly, I conceive there is nothing in the world so practicable
as this,—nothing made so easy, so certain to a soul that really minds it.

Let us take it so then, the fault is not religion’s, that those who profess it are subject
to so much fear and care, and disquieted with so much sorrow. It is rather because Christianity
doth not sink into the hearts and souls of men, but only puts a tincture on their outside,
or because the faith of divine truths is so superficial, and the consideration of them so slight,
that they cannot have much efficacy and influence on the heart, to quiet and compose it. Is
it any wonder that some souls be subject again to the bondage of fear and terror when they
do not stand in awe to sin? Much liberty to sin will certainly embondage the spirit of a Christian
to fear. Suppose a believer in Jesus Christ be exempted from the hazard of condemnation, yet
he is the greatest fool in the world that would, on that account, venture on satisfaction to
his lusts. For though it be true that he be not in danger of eternal wrath, yet he may find
so much present wrath in his conscience as may make him think it was a foolish bargain. He
may lose so much of the sweetness of the peace and joy of God as all the pleasures of sin cannot
compense. Therefore to the end that you whose souls are once pacified by the blood of Christ,
and composed by his word of promise, may enjoy that constant rest and tranquillity as not to
be enthralled again to your old fears and terrors, I would advise and recommend to you these
two things:—One is, that you would be much in the study of that allowance which the promises
of Christ afford. Be much in the serious apprehension of the gospel, and certainly your doubts
and fears would evanish at one puff of such a rooted and established meditation. Think what
you are called to, not “to fear” again, but to love rather, and honour him as a Father. And,
then, take heed to walk suitably and preserve your seal of adoption unblotted, unrusted. You
would study so to walk as you may not cast dirt upon it, or open any gap in the conscience
for the re entry of these hellish-like fears and dreadful apprehensions of God. Certainly,
it is impossible to preserve the spirit in freedom if a man be not watchful against sin and
corruption. David prays, “re establish me with thy free Spirit,” as if his spirit had been
abased, embondaged, and enthralled by the power of that corruption. If you would have your
spirits kept free from the fear of wrath, study to keep them free from the power of sin, for
that is but a fruit of this, and it is most suitable that the soul that cares not to be in
bondage to sinful lusts, should, by the righteousness of God, tempered with love and wisdom,
be brought under the bondage he would not, that is, of fear and terror, for by this means the
Lord makes him know how evil the first is, by the bitterness of the second.

It is usual on such a scripture as this, to propound many questions, and debate many practical
cases as, whether a soul after believing can be under legal bondage, and wherein these differ,
the bondage of a soul after believing, and in its first conversion, and how far that bondage
of fear is preparatory to faith, and many such like. But I choose rather to hold forth the
simple and naked truth for your edification, than put you upon to entertain you in such needless
janglings and contentions. All I desire to say to a soul in bondage, is, to exhort him to come
to the Redeemer, and to consider that his case calls and cries for a delivery. Come, I say,
and he shall find rest and liberty to his soul. All I would say to souls delivered from this
bondage, is, to request and beseech them to live in a holy fear of sin, and jealousy over themselves,
that so they may not be readily brought under the bondage of the fear of wrath again. Perfect
love casts out the fear of hell, but perfect love brings in the fear of sin. Ye that love the
Lord, hate ill, and if ye hate it, ye will fear it in this state of infirmity and weakness,
wherein we are. And if at any time ye, through negligence and carelessness of walking, lose
the comfortable evidence of the Father’s love, and be reduced again to your old prison of legal
terror, do not despair for that, do not think that such a thing could not befall a child of
God, and from that ground do not raze former foundations, for the scripture saith not, that
whosoever believes once in Christ, and receives the Spirit of adoption, cannot fear again;
for we see it otherwise in David, in Heman, in Job, &c., all holy saints. But the scripture
saith, Ye have not received the spirit of bondage for that end, to fear again. It is not the
allowance of your Father. Your allowance is better and larger, if you knew it, and did not
sit below it.

Now, the great gift, and large allowance of our Father, is expressed in the next words, “But
ye have received the Spirit of adoption,” &c, which Spirit of adoption is a Spirit of intercession,
to make us cry to God as our Father. These are two gifts, adoption, or the privilege of sons
and the Spirit of adoption revealing the love and mercy of God to the heart, and framing it
to a soul like disposition. Compare the two states together, and it is a marvellous change,—a
rebel condemned, and then pardoned, and then adopted to be a son of God,—a sinner under bondage,
a bond slave to sin and Satan, not only freed from that intolerable bondage, but advanced to
this liberty, to be made a son of God. This will be the continued wonder of eternity, and that
whereabout the song of angels and saints will be. Accursed rebels expecting nothing but present
death, sinners arraigned and sentenced before his tribunal and already tasting hell in their
consciences, and in fear of eternal perishing, not only to be delivered from all that, but
to be dignified with this privilege, to be the sons of God, to be taken from the gibbet to
be crowned! That is the great mystery of wisdom and grace revealed in the gospel, the proclaiming
whereof will be the joint labour of all the innumerable companies above for all eternity. Now,
if you ask how this estate is attainable, himself tells us, John i. 12, “As many as believed
(or received) him, to them he gave the privilege to be the sons of God.” The way is made plain
and easy. Christ the Son of God, the natural and eternal Son of God, became the Son of man.
To facilitate this, he hath taken on the burden of man’s sin, the chastisement of our peace,
and so of the glorious Son of God he became like the wretched and accursed sons of men, and
therefore God hath proclaimed in the gospel, not only an immunity and freedom from wrath, to
all that in the sense of their own misery cordially receive him as he is offered, but the unspeakable
privilege of sonship and adoption for his sake, who became our elder brother, Gal. iv. 4, 5.
Men that want children, use to supply their want by adopting some beloved friend in the place
of a son, and this is a kind of supply of nature for the comfort of them that want. But it
is strange, that God having a Son so glorious, the very character of his person, and brightness
of his glory, in whom he delighted from eternity,—strange, I say, that he should in a manner
lose and give away his only begotten Son, that he might by his means adopt others, poor despicable
creatures, yea, rebellious, to be his sons and daughters. Certainly, this is an act infinitely
transcending nature,—such an act that hath an unsearchable mystery in it, into which angels
desire to look and never cease looking, because they never see the bottom of it. It was not
out of indigency he did it, not for any need he had of us, or comfort expected from us, but
absolutely for our necessity and consolation, that he might have upon whom to pour the riches
of his grace.

Sermon XXXVIII. 1. It is a wonderful expression of love to advance his own creatures, not only
infinitely below himself, but far below other creatures, to such a dignity. Lord, what is man
that thou so magnified him! But it surpasseth wonder, that rebellious creatures, his enemies,
should have, not only their rebellions freely pardoned, but this privilege of sonship bestowed
upon them, that he should take enemies, and make sons of them, and not only sons, but heirs,
co-heirs with his own only begotten Son. And then, how he makes them sons, is as wonderful
as the thing itself, that he should make his own Son our brother, “bone of our bone and flesh
of our flesh,” and make him spring out as a branch or rod out of the dry stem of Jesse, who
himself was the root of all mankind. This is the way, God sent his Son, made of a woman, under
the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons, Gal. iv. 5. The house of heaven marries
with the earth, with them who have their foundation in the dust, the chief heir of that heavenly
family joineth in kindred with our base and obscure family, and by this means we are made of
kin to God. “But of him are ye in Christ Jesus,” 1 Cor. i. 30. It behoved Christ, in a manner
to lose his own sonship as to men, to have it so veiled and darkened by the superadded interest
in us, and his nearness to us. He was so properly a Son of man, subject to all human infirmities,
except sin, that without eyes of faith, men could not perceive that he was the Son of God.
And by this wonderful exchange are we made the sons of God. Whoever, in the apprehension of
their own enmity and distance from God, receive Christ Jesus, offered as the peace, the bond
of union between the two families of heaven and earth, that were at an infinite odds and distance,
whoever (I say) believes thus in him, and flies to him, desiring to lay down the weapons of
their warfare, their peace is not only made by that marriage which Christ made with our nature,
but they are blessed with this power and privilege, to be the sons and daughter of the Most
High. And from thence you may conclude, that if God be your Father, you can want nothing that
is good. But the determination of what is good for you, whether in spiritual enlargements,
or in the things of this life, you must refer to his wisdom, for his love indeed is strong
as death, nothing can quench it. In the point of reality and constancy, there is nothing to
shadow it out among men. The love of women is earnest and vehement, but that is nothing to
it, (Isa. xlix. 15,) for they may forget, but he cannot. Yet his love is not a foolish dotage,
like mans that is often miscarried with fancy and lust; but it is a rational and wise affection,
administered and expressed with infinite reason and wisdom; and therefore, he chooses rather
to profit us than to please us in his dealings. And we who are not so fit to judge and discern
our own good, should commit all to his fatherly and wise Providence. Therefore, if you be tempted
to anxiety and carefulness of mind, either through the earthliness of your dispositions, or
the present straits of the time, you who have resigned yourself to Jesus Christ, should call
to mind that your heavenly Father careth for you. And what need you care too? Why not use your
lawful callings, be diligent in them? This is not to prejudge that, but if you believe in God,
then you are obliged by that profession to abate from the superfluous tormenting thoughtfulness
that is good for nothing but to make you more miserable than your troubles can make you, and
to make you miserable before you be miserable, to anticipate your sorrows. If you say, God
is your father, you are tied to devolve yourselves over on him, and trust in his good will
and faithfulness, and to sit down quietly as children that have parents to provide for them.

Now, the other gift is great too, “the Spirit of adoption,” and because ye are sons, therefore
hath he given you “the Spirit of his Son,” saith this apostle, Gal. iv. 6. And so it is a kind
of consectary(216) of the great privilege and blessed estate of adoption. They who adopt children,
use to give them some kind of token to express their love to them. But as the Lord is higher
than all, and this privilege to be his son or child is the greatest dignity imaginable, so
this gift of his Spirit suits the greatness and glory and love of our Father. It is a father’s
gift indeed, a gift suitable to our heavenly Father. If a father that is tender of the education
of his child, and would desire nothing so much as that he might be of a virtuous and gracious
disposition, and good ingine,(217) I think if he were to express his love in one wish, it would
be this, that he might have such a Spirit in him, and this he would account better than all
that he could leave him. But if it were possible to transmit a gracious, well-disposed and
understanding spirit from one to another, and if men could leave it, as they do their inheritance
to their children, certainly a wise and religious parent would first make over a disposition
of that to his children; as Elisha sought a double measure of Elijah’s spirit, so a father
would wish such a measure to his children, and, if it were possible, give it. But that may
not be. All that can be done is to wish well to them, and leave them a good example for imitation.
But in this our heavenly Father transcends all, that he can impart his own Spirit to his adopted
children, and his Spirit is in a manner the very essential principle that maketh them children
of the Father. Their natures, their dispositions, are under his power. He can as well reform
them, as you can change your children’s garments. He can make of us what he will. Our hearts
are in his hand, as the water, capable of any impression he pleaseth to put on it, and this
is the impression he putteth on his children, he putteth his Spirit in their hearts, and writeth
his law in their inward parts, a more divine and higher work than all human persuasion can
reach. This Spirit they receive as an earnest of the inheritance, and withal, to make them
fit for the inheritance of the saints in light.

Now, the working of this Spirit of adoption, I conceive to be threefold, beside that of intersession
expressed in the verse. The first work of the Spirit of adoption, that wherein a father’s affection
seems to break first from under ground, is, the revealing to the heart the love and mercy of
God to sinners. I do not say, to such a soul in particular, for that application is neither
first, nor universal. But herein the Spirit of adoption first appears from under the cloud
of fear; and this is the first opening of the prison of bondage, wherein a soul was shut, when
the plain way of reconciliation to God in Christ, and delivery from the bondage of sin and
wrath, is holden out; when such a word as this comes into the soul, and is received with some
gladness, “God so loved the world that he gave his Son,” &c. “This is a true and faithful saying,”
&c. “Come, ye that labour and are weary, and I will give rest to your souls.” When a soul is
made to hear the glad tidings of liberty preached to captives, of light to the blind, of joy
to the heavy in spirit, of life to the dead, though he cannot come that length as to see his
own particular interest, yet the very receiving affectionately and greedily such a general
report as good and true, gives some ease and relaxation to the heart. To see delivery possible,
is some door of hope to a desperate sinner. But to see it, and espy more than a possibility,
even great probability, though he cannot reach a certainty, that will be as the breaking open
of a window of light in a dark dungeon. It will be as the taking off of some of the hardest
fetters, and the worst chains, which makes a man almost to think himself at liberty. Now this
is the great office of the Spirit of the Father, to beget in us good thoughts of him, to incline
us to charitable and favourable constructions of him, and make us ready to think well of him,
to beget a good understanding in us and him, and correct our jealous misapprehensions of him.
For certainly we are naturally suspicious of God, that he deals not in sad earnest with us.
Whenever we see the height of our provocation, and weight of deserved indignation, we think
him like ourselves, and can hardly receive without suspicion the gospel that lays open his
love in Christ to the world.

Now, this is the Spirit’s work, to make us entertain that honourable thought of God, that he
is most inclinable to pardon sinners; and that his mercy is infinitely above man’s sin; and
that it is no prejudice to his holiness or justice; and to apprehend seriously a constant reality
and solid truth in the promises of the gospel; and so to convince a soul of righteousness,
(John xvi.) that there is a way of justifying a sinner or ungodly person, without wrong to
God’s righteousness; and this being well pondered in the heart, and received in love, the great
business is done. After that, particular application is more easy, of which I shall not speak
now, because occasion will be given in the next verse, about the Spirit’s witnessing with our
spirits, which is another of the Spirit’s workings: only I say this, that which makes this
so difficult, is a defect in the first. But the common principles of the gospel are not really,
and so seriously apprehended, because many souls do not put to their seal to witness to the
promises and truth of it. Therefore the Lord often denies this seal and witness to our comfort.
It is certainly a preposterous way Satan puts souls upon, first, to get such a testimony from
the Spirit before they labour to get such a testimony to Christ, and echo or answer in their
hearts to his word. This way seems shortest; for they would leap into the greater liberty at
the first hand. But certainly it is farthest about, because it is impossible for souls to leap
immediately out of bondage to assurance, without some middle step. They cannot pass thus from
extremes to extremes, without going through the middle state of receiving Christ, and laying
his word up in the heart; and therefore it proves the way furthest about, because when souls
have long wearied themselves, they must at length turn in hither.

But there is another working of the Spirit I wish you were acquainted with. As the first work
is to beget a suitable apprehension of God’s mind and heart towards sinners, so the next is,
to beget a suitable disposition in our hearts towards God as a Father. The first apprehends
his love, the next reflects it back again with the heart of a sinner to him. The Spirit first
brings the report of the love and grace of God to us, and then he carries the love and respect
of the heart up to God.

You know how God complains in Malachi, “If I be a Father, where is my fear and honour?” For
these are the only fitting qualifications of children, such a reverent, respective observance
of our heavenly Father, such affectionate and humble carriage towards him, as becometh both
his majesty and his love. As these are tempered one with another in him, his love not abasing
his majesty, and his majesty not diminishing his love; so we ought to carry, as reverence and
confidence, fear and love, may be contempered one with another, so as we may neither forget
his infinite greatness, nor doubt of his unspeakable love. And this inward disposition engraven
on the heart, will be the principle of willing and ready obedience. It will in some measure
be our meat and drink to do our Father’s will. For Christ gave us an example how we should
carry towards him. How humble and obedient was he, though his only begotten Son!

Sermon XXXIX.

    Verse 15.—“Whereby we cry, Abba, Father.”

As there is a light of grace in bestowing such incomparably high dignities and excellent gifts
on poor sinners, such as, to make them the sons of God who were the children of the devil,
and heirs of a kingdom who were heirs of wrath; so there is a depth of wisdom in the Lord’s
allowance and manner of dispensing his love and grace in this life. For though the love be
wonderful, that we should be called the sons of God; yet, as that apostle speaks, it doth not
yet so clearly appear what we shall be, by what we are, 1 John iii. 1. Our present condition
is so unlike such a state and dignity, and our enjoyments so unsuitable to our rights and privileges,
that it would not appear by the mean, low, and indigent state we are now into, that we have
so great and glorious a Father. How many infirmities are we compassed about with! How many
wants are we pressed withal! Our necessities are infinite, and our enjoyments no ways proportioned
to our necessities. Notwithstanding even in this, the love and wisdom of our heavenly Father
shows itself, and oftentimes more gloriously in the theatre of men’s weakness, infirmities,
and wants, than they could appear in the absolute and total exemption of his children from
necessities. Strength perfected in weakness, grace sufficient in infirmities, hath some greater
glory than strength and grace alone. Therefore he hath chosen this way as most fit for the
advancing his glory, and most suitable for our comfort and edification, to give us but little
in hand, and environ us with a crowd of continued necessities and wants within and without,
that we may learn to cry to him as our Father, and seek our supplies from him; and withal he
hath not been sparing, but liberal in promises of hearing our cries and supplying our wants;
so that this way of narrow and hard dispensation, that at first seems contrary to the love
and bounty and riches of our Father, in the perfect view of it, appears to be the only way
to perpetuate our communion with him, and often to renew the sense of his love and grace, that
would grow slack in our hearts, if our needs did not every day stir up fresh longing, and his
returns by this means are so much the more refreshing. There is a time of children’s minority
when they stand in need of continual supplies from their parents, or tutors, because they are
not entered in possession of their inheritance; and while they are in this state, there is
nothing more beseeming them, than in all their wants to address to their father, and represent
them to him; and it is fit they should be from hand to mouth, as you say, that they may know
and acknowledge their dependence on their father. Truly this is our minority, our presence
in the body, which because of sin that dwells in it, and its own natural weakness and incapacity,
keeps us at much distance with the Lord, that we cannot be intimately present with him. Now,
in this condition, the most natural, the most comely and becoming exercise of children, is,
to cry to our Father, to present all our grievances; and thus to entertain some holy correspondence
with our absent Father, by the messenger of prayer and supplication, which cannot return empty,
if it be not sent away too full of self-conceit. This is the most natural breathing of a child
of God in this world. It is the most proper acting of his new life, and the most suitable expiration
of that Spirit of adoption that is inspired into him, since there is so much life as to know
what we want, and our wants are infinite. Therefore that life cannot but beat this way, in
holy desires after God, whose fulness can supply all wants. This is the pulse of a Christian,
that goeth continually, and there is much advantage to the continuity and interruptedness of
the motion, from the infiniteness and inexhaustedness of our needs in this life, and the continual
assaults that are made by necessity and temptation on the heart, “But ye have received the
Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry,” &c. He puts in his own name in the latter part, though
theirs was in the former part. When he speaks of a donation or privilege, he supplies to the
meanest, to show that the lowest and most despised creature is not in any incapacity to receive
the greatest gifts of God; and then, when he mentions the working of that Spirit in way of
intercession, because it imports necessity and want, he cares not to commit some incongruity
in the language, by changing the person, that he may teach us, that weakness, infirmities,
and wants, are common to the best and chiefest among Christians; that the most eminent have
continual need to cry, and the lowest and obscurest believers have as good ground to believe
the hearing and acceptance of their cries; that the highest are not above the weakest and lowest
ordinance, and that the lowest are not below the comfort of help and acceptation in him. Nay,
the growth and increase of grace, is so far from exempting men from, or setting them above,
this duty of constant supplication, that by the contrary, this is the just measure of their
growth and altitude in grace. As the degrees of the height of the water Nilus in its overflowing,
are a sure sign of the fertility or barrenness of that year, so the overflowings of the spirit
of prayer in one gives a present account how the heart is,—whether barren and unfruitful in
the knowledge of Jesus Christ, or fruitful and lively, and vigorous in it. It is certain that
contraries do discover one another, and the more the one be increased, that is not only the
more incompatible and inconsistent with the other, but gives the most perfect discerning of
it. When grace is but as twilight in the soul, and as the dawning of the day only, gross darkness
and uncleanness is seen; but the more it grow to the perfect day, the more sin is seen, and
the more its hated wants are discovered that did not appear; and therefore it exerciseth itself
the more in opposition to sin, and supplication to God. To speak the truth, our growth here
is but an advancement in the knowledge and sense of our indigency,—it is but a further entry
into the idolatrous temple of the heart, which makes a man see daily new abominations worse
than the former. And therefore you may easily know that such repeated sights and discoveries
will but press out more earnest and frequent cries from the heart. And such a growth in humility,
and faith in God’s fulness, will be but as oil to feed the flame of supplication. For what
is prayer, indeed, but the ardency of the affection after God, flaming up to him in cries and
requests?

To speak of this exercise of an holy heart, would require more of the spirit of it than we
have. But truly this is to be lamented, that though there be nothing more common among Christians
in the outward practice of it, yet that there is nothing more extraordinary and rare, even
among many that use it, than to be acquainted with the inward nature of it. Truly, the most
ordinary things in religion are the greatest mysteries, as to the true life of them. We are
strangers to the soul and life of these things, which consist in the holy behaviour and deportment
of our spirits before the Father of spirits.

These words give some ground to speak of some special qualifications of prayer, and the chief
principle of it. The chief principle and original of prayer, is, the Spirit of adoption received
into the heart. It is a business of a higher nature than can be taught by precepts, or learned
by custom and education. There is a general mistake among men, that the gift of prayer is attained
by learning, and that it consists in the freedom and plenty of expression. But O! how many
doctors and disputers of the world are there, that can defend all the articles of faith against
the opposers of them; yet so unacquainted are they with this exercise, that the poor, and unlearned,
and nothings in the world, who cannot dispute for religion, send up a more savoury and acceptable
sacrifice, and sweet incense to God daily, when they offer up their soul’s desires in simplicity
and sincerity. Certainly this is a spiritual thing, derived only from the Fountain of spirits,—this
grace of pouring out our souls into him, and keeping communication with him. The variety of
words and riches of expression is but the shell of it, the external shadow; and all the life
consists in the frame of the heart before God. And this none can put in frame but he that formed
the spirit of man within him. Some through custom of hearing and using it, attain to a habit
of expressing themselves readily in it, it may be, to the satisfaction of others; but, alas!
they may be strangers to the first letters and elements of the life and spirit of prayer. I
would have you who want both, look up to heaven for it. Many of you cannot be induced to pray
in your family, (and I fear little or none in secret, which is indeed a more serious work,)
because you have not been used, or not learned, or such like. Alas! beloved, this cometh not
through education, or learning. It cometh from the Spirit of adoption; and if ye say, ye cannot
pray, ye have not the Spirit; and if ye have not the Spirit, ye are not the sons of God. Know
what is in the inevitable sequel of your own confessions.

But I haste to the qualifications of this divine work,—fervency, reverence, and confidence;
fervency in crying, reverence and confidence in crying, “Abba, Father;” for these two suit
well toward our Father. The first, I fear, we must seek elsewhere than in prayer. I find it
spent on other things of less moment. Truly, all the spirit and affection of men runs in another
channel,—in the way of contention and strife, in the way of passion and miscalled zeal, and
because these things whereabout we do thus earnestly contend, have some interest or coherence
with religion, we not only excuse but approve our vehemency. But O! much better were that employed
in supplications to God: that were a divine channel. Again, the marrow of other men’s spirits
is exhausted in the pursuit of things in the world. The edge of their desires is turned that
way, and it must needs be blunted and dulled in spiritual things, that it cannot pierce into
heaven, and prevail effectually. I am sure, many of us useth this excuse, who are so cold in
it, that we do not warm ourselves. And how shall we think to prevail with God? Our spirits
make little noise when we cry all the loudest. We can scarce hear any whisper in our hearts,
and how shall he hear us? Certainly it is not the extension of the voice pleaseth him; it is
the cry of the heart that is sweet harmony in his ears. And you may easily perceive this, if
you but consider that he is an infinite Spirit, that pierceth into all the corners of our hearts,
and hath all the darkness of it as light before him. How can you think that such a Spirit can
be pleased with lip cries? How can he endure such deceit and falsehood, (who hath so perfect
a contrariety with all false appearances,) that your heart should lie so dead and flat before
him, and the affection of it turned quite another way? There were no sacrifices without fire
in the Old Testament, and that fire was kept in perpetually; and so no prayer now without some
inward fire, conceived in the desires, and blazing up and growing into a flame in the presenting
of them to God.

The incense that was to be offered on the altar of perfume, (Exod. xxx.) behoved to be beaten
and prepared; and truly, prayer would do well to be made out of a beaten and bruised heart,
and contrite spirit,—a spirit truly sensible of its own unworthiness and wants; and that beating
and pounding of the heart will yield a good fragrant smell, as some spices do not till beaten.
The incense was made of divers spices, intimating to us, that true prayer is not one grace
alone, but a compound of graces. It is the joint exercise of all a Christian’s graces; seasoned
with all. Every one of them gives some peculiar fragrancy to it, as humility, faith, repentance,
love, &c. The acting of the heart in supplication, is a kind of compend and result of all these,
as one perfume made up of many simples. But above all, as the incense, our prayers must be
kindled by fire on the altar. There must be some heat and fervour, some warmness, conceived
by the Holy Spirit in our hearts, which may make our spices send forth a pleasant smell, as
many spices do not till they get heat. Let us lay this engagement on our hearts, to be more
serious in our addresses to God, the Father of spirits; above all, to present our inward soul
before him, before whom it is naked and open, though we do not bring it. And certainly, frequency
in prayer will much help us to fervency, and to keep it when we have it.

Sermon XL.

    Verse 15.—“Whereby we cry, Abba, Father.”

All that know any thing of religion, must needs know and confess that there is no exercise
either more suitable to him that professeth it, or more needful for him, than to give himself
to the exercise of prayer. But that which is confessed by all, and as to the outward performance
gone about by many, I fear is yet a mystery sealed up from us, as the true and living nature
of it. There is much of it expressed here in few words, “whereby we cry, Abba, Father.” The
divine constitution and qualifications of this divine work, are here made up of a temper of
fervency, reverence, and confidence. The first I spoke of before; but I fear our hearts were
not well heated then, or may be cooled since. It is not the loud noise of words that is best
heard in heaven, or that is constructed to be crying to God. No, this is transacted in the
heart more silently to men, but it striketh up into the ears of God. His ear is sharp, and
that voice of the soul’s desires is shrill, and though it were out of the depths, they will
meet together. It is true, the vehemency of affection will sometimes cause the extension of
the voice; but yet it may cry as loud to heaven when it is kept within. I do not press such
extraordinary degrees of fervour as may affect the body, but I would rather wish we accustomed
ourselves to a solid calm seriousness and earnestness of spirit, which might be more constant
than such raptures can be, that we might always gather our spirits to what we are about, and
avocate them from impertinent wanderings and fix them upon the present object of our worship.
This is to worship him in spirit who is a Spirit.

The other thing that composes the sweet temper of prayer, is reverence. And what more suitable,
whether you consider him or yourselves? “If I be your Father, where is my honour? and if I
be your Master, where is my fear?” Mal. i. 6. While we call him Father, or Lord, we proclaim
this much, that we ought to know our distance from him, and his superiority to us. And if worship
in prayer carry not this character, and express not this honourable and glorious Lord, whom
we serve, it wants that congruity and suitableness to him that is the beauty of it. Is there
any thing more uncomely, than for children to behave themselves irreverently and irrespectively
towards their fathers, to whom they owe themselves? It is a monstrous thing even in nature,
and to nature’s light. O how much more abominable must it be, to draw near to the Father of
spirits, who made us, and not we ourselves, in whose hand our breath is, and whose are all
our ways; in a word, to whom we owe not only this dust, but the living spirit that animates
it, that was breathed from heaven, and finally, “in whom we live, and move, and have our being,”
and well-being; to worship such an one, and yet to behave ourselves so unseemly and irreverently
in his presence, our hearts not stricken with the apprehension of his glory, but lying flat
and dead before him, having scarcely him in our thoughts whom we speak to. And finally, our
deportments in his sight are such, as could not be admitted in the presence of any person a
little above ourselves,—to be about to speak to them, and yet to turn aside continually to
every one that cometh by, and entertain communication with every base creature. This, I say,
in the presence of a king, or nobleman, would be accounted such an absurd incivility, as could
be committed. And yet we behave ourselves just so with the Father of spirits.

O the wanderings of the hearts of men in divine worship! While we are in communication with
our Father and Lord in prayer, whose heart is fixed to a constant attendance and presence,
by the impression of his glorious holiness? Whose Spirit doth not continually gad abroad, and
take a word of every thing that occurs, and so mars that soul correspondence? O that this word
(Psal. lxxxix. 7.) were written with great letters on our hearts, “God is greatly to be feared
in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.”
That one word, God, speaketh all. Either we must convert him into an idol, which is nothing;
or if we apprehend him to be GOD, we must apprehend our infinite distance from him, and his
unspeakable, inaccessible glory above us. He is greatly feared and reverenced in the assemblies
that are above, in the upper courts of angels. Those glorious spirits who must cover their
feet from us, because we cannot see their glory; they must cover their faces from him, because
they cannot behold his glory, Isa. vi. What a glorious train hath he, and yet how reverend
are they? They wait round about the throne, above and about it, as courtiers upon their king,
for they are all ministering spirits, and they rest not day and night to adore and admire that
holy One, crying, “Holy, holy, holy, the whole earth is full of his glory.” Now, how much more
then should he be greatly feared and had in reverence in the assembly of his saints, of poor
mortal men, whose foundation is in the dust, and in the clay, and besides drink in iniquity
like water? There are two points of difference and distance from us. He is nearer angels, for
angels are pure spirits, but we have flesh, which is furthest removed from his nature. And
then angels are holy and clean; yet theirs is but spotted to(218) his unspotted holiness. But
we are defiled with sin, which putteth us farthest off from him, and which his holiness hath
greatest antipathy at. Let us consider this, my beloved, that we may carry the impression of
the glorious holiness and majesty of God on our hearts, whenever we appear before him, that
so we may serve and rejoice with trembling, and pray with reverence and godly fear. If we apprehend
indeed our own quality and condition, how low, how base it is, how we cannot endure the very
clear aspect of our own consciences, we cannot look on ourselves steadfastly without shame
and confusion of face, at the deformed spectacle we behold. Much less would we endure to have
our souls opened and presented to the view of other men, even the basest of men. We would be
overwhelmed with shame if they could see into our hearts? Now then, apprehend seriously what
he is, how glorious in holiness; how infinite in wisdom, how the secrets of your souls are
plain and open in his sight, and I am persuaded you will be composed to a reverend, humble,
and trembling behaviour in his sight.

But withal I must add this, that because he is your Father, you may intermingle confidence;
nay, you are commanded so to do, and this honours him as much as reverence. For confidence
in God, as our Father, is the best acknowledgment of the greatness and goodness of God. It
declareth how able he is to save us, and how willing, and so ratifieth all the promises of
God made to us, and setteth to a seal to his faithfulness. There is nothing he accounts himself
more honoured by, than a soul’s full resigning itself to him, and relying on his power and
good-will in all necessities, casting its care upon him, as a loving Father, who careth for
us. And truly, there is much beauty and harmony in the juncture of these two, rejoicing with
trembling, confidence with reverence, to ask nothing doubting, and yet sensible of our infinite
distance from him, and the disproportion of our requests to his highness. A child-like disposition
is composed thus, as also the temper and carriage of a courtier hath these ingredients in it.
The love of his Father, and the favour of his Prince, maketh him take liberty, and assume boldness;
and withal he is not unmindful of his own distance, from his Father or master. “Let us draw
near with full assurance of faith,” Heb. x. 22. There is much in the scripture, both exhorted,
commanded, and commended, of that παρρησια, that liberty and boldness of pouring out our requests
to God, as one that certainly will hear us, and grant that which is good. Unbelief spoileth
all. It is a wretched and base spirited thing, that can conceive no honourable thoughts of
God, but only like itself. But faith is the well-pleasing ingredient of prayer. The lower thoughts
a man has of himself, it maketh him conceive the higher and more honourable of God. “My ways
are not your ways, nor my thoughts as your thoughts, but as far above as the heavens above
the earth,” Isa. lv. 8. This is the rule of a believing soul’s conceiving of God, and expecting
from him; and when a soul is thus placed on God, by trusting and believing in him, it is fixed;
“His heart is fixed, trusting in the Lord,” Psal. cxii. 7. O how wavering and inconstant is
a soul, till it fix at this anchor, upon the ground of his immutable promises! It is tossed
up and down with every wind, it is double-minded; now one way, then another, now in one mind,
and shortly changed; and indeed the soul is like the sea, capable of the least or greatest
commotion, James i. 6-8. I know not any thing that will either fix your hearts from wandering
in prayer, or establish your hearts from trouble and disquiet after it, nothing that will so
exoner(219) and ease your spirits of care as this, to lay hold on God as all-sufficient, and
lay that constraint on your hearts, to wait on him and his pleasure, to cast your souls on
his promises, that are so full and so free, and abide there, as at your anchor-hold, in all
the vicissitudes and changes of outward or inward things. In spiritual things that concern
your salvation, that which is absolutely necessary, you may take the boldness to be absolute
in it, and as Job, “though he should slay me, yet will I trust in him;” and as Jacob, “I will
not let thee go till thou bless me.” But either in outward things, that have some usefulness
in them, but are not always fittest for our chiefest good; or in the degrees of spiritual gifts,
and measures of graces, the Lord calls us without anxiety to pour out our hearts in them unto
him. But withal we would do it with submission to his pleasure, because he knows best what
is best for us. In these, we are not bound to be confident to receive the particular we ask,
but rather our confidence should pitch upon his good-will and favour, that he will certainly
deny nothing that himself knows is good for us. And so in these we should absolutely cast ourselves
without carefulness upon his loving and fatherly providence, and resign ourselves to him to
be disposed of in them as he sees convenient. There is sometimes too much limitation of God,
and peremptoriness used with him in such things, in which his wisdom craves a latitude both
in public and private matters, even as men’s affections and interests are engaged. But ordinarily
it is attended and followed with shame and disappointment in the end. And there is, on the
other hand, intolerable remissness and slackness in many, in pressing even the weightiest petitions
of salvation, mortification, &c. which certainly ariseth from the diffidence and unbelief of
the heart, and the want of that rooted persuasion, both of the incomparable necessity and worth
of the things themselves, and of his willingness and engagement to bestow them.

The word is doubled here, “Abba, Father,” the Syriac and Greek word signifying one thing, expressing
the tender affection and love of God towards them that come to him. “He that cometh to God
must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek him diligently.” So he
that cometh to God must believe that he hath the bowels and compassion of a Father, and will
be more easily inclined with our importunate cries, than the fathers of our flesh. He may suffer
his children to cry long, but it is not because he will not hear, but because he would hear
them longer, and delights to hear their cry oftener. If he delay, it is his wisdom to appreciate
and endear his mercies to us, and to teach us to press our petitions and sue for an answer.

FELLOWSHIP WITH GOD

Or, Twenty-Eight Sermons on the First Epistle of John, Chapters I. and II. To The Sincere Seeker
After Fellowship With God, And Seriously Heaven-Ward-Tending Christian.

Preface.

DEAR AND WELL-BELOVED FRIEND,

As thou art in thyself a rare jewel, a most precious stone, one of a thousand, yea, of ten
thousand, being compared with the many thousands of common stones, I mean, external professors
in the visible church, who rest on a bare name, and of whom that is verified in every nation,
which our Saviour saith, Matth. xx. 16. “Many are called, but few are chosen;” and of many
of whom that is also too true in every generation, (and, oh! that it were not too manifest
in this also,) which Paul observed in his time, Phil. iii. 18, 19. 2. so also, thou, in a special
way, art the dearly beloved and longed for, the joy and crown, of every sincere servant of
Christ in the gospel, Phil. iv. 1. Thou art, if not the only, yet the chief object of their
labours, their work being either to confirm and strengthen thee in thy way, that thou mayest
so stand fast in the Lord, or remove impediments, make crooked things straight, and so prepare
the way of the Lord before thee, or to guide thee by the light of God’s word in the dark night
of temptation and desertion. Now, as we are confident these sermons were preached at first
by that blessed, serious labourer in the work of the ministry, Mr. Hugh Binning, with a special
eye to the advancement of sincere seekers after fellowship with God, and seriously heaven-ward-tending
Christians amongst his hearers, so to whom shall we direct this posthumous, and alas! unperfected
work, but to thee, (O serious Christian,) who makest it thy work not only to seek after the
knowledge of God in Christ, in a mere speculative way, that thou mayest know, and therein rest,
as if thy work were done, but also to follow after the enjoyment of that known God, and believed
on Saviour, and all the promised privileges of grace in this life, and of eternal glory in
the life to come. To thee especially belong these precious soul-ravishing truths delivered
in these sermons. Two things, we know, thou hast determined thy soul unto, and fixed thine
eye on, as thine aim and mark in thy generation, viz. the light of knowledge and the life of
practice. As to knowledge, we are confident that with the apostle Paul, 1 Cor. ii. 15. Now
in reading these sermons thou shalt perceive, that to help thee in both these, hath been the
very scope and design of this serious preacher. Desirest thou to know Jesus Christ the Lord
of life, either according to his eternal subsistence in the infinite understanding of the Father,
as God, or as to his appearance in the flesh, as Man, or fitness as Mediator, to reconcile
thee to God his Father, both in respect of willingness and ability to save? Then here thou
shalt behold him delineate to the life. Wouldst thou be clearly informed anent(220) the only
true and sure foundation of fellowship with God, the way of entertaining it, the honour or
happiness of it, and sweet fruits of it, that fulness of joy that accompanies it? Here shalt
thou find so clear a light as shall rejoice thy soul. Wouldst thou be fortified against the
incursions and recursions of sin and Satan? Then come to this magazine, and be furnished abundantly.
Desirest thou to have thy soul increased in the love of God, and to see manifest demonstrations
of his love in Christ to thee? Oh! then turn in hither, and get satisfaction to thy soul’s
desires. If thou desirest with David, to hate sin with a perfect hatred, here, if any where,
thou shalt obtain thy desire. Yet let none think that we limit the benefit and usefulness of
these sermons to serious Christians only, and so by consequence exclude all others from any
hope of soul-advantage in reading them. Nay, we declare, that though it be undeniable, that
John did write this epistle with a special respect to the spiritual advantage of serious Christians,
and that this holy preacher also had this same design, yet we dare be bold to invite all of
what degree soever, to the serious perusing of them, assuring them that in so doing they shall
not find their labour in vain in the Lord, for here are such pregnant demonstrations of a Deity,
infinite, eternal, omnipotent, incomprehensible, governing all things by the word of his power,
as may dash the boldness of the most metaphysical, notional, or profanely practical atheist,
and with conviction of spirit make him cry out, as in Psal. lxxiii. 22. “So foolish was I and
ignorant, I was as a beast before thee!” Here are such clear discoveries of the vileness of
sin, of its direct opposition to a holy God, and his most holy will, of its woful soul-damning
effects, as may convince the most profane and stout-hearted carnalist, and awake him out of
his soul-destroying sleep of security and presumption. Here are so glorious evidences of God’s
free and inconceivable love to the world, in Christ Jesus the Son of his love, as are able
to enlighten with the light of consolation, the sadliest dejected and casten down soul, under
the apprehension of the curse and wrath of God due to it for sin, and raise it up to the hope
of mercy in and through so clearly a revealed Saviour. It is much to get the ear of a man.
If his ear be gotten, his mind is the more easily gained. Therefore, those who professed eloquence,
and studied to persuade men to any thing, used in the entry to fall upon some thing that might
stir up the attention of their hearers, or make them the more inclinable to receive instruction,
or catch their favour or good-will, which is of great moment to persuasion, for it is sometimes
fit to open the passages of the heart by such means, that there may be the more easy entry
for instruction and persuasion. Truly there is something of this art runs here in a divine
channel; as indeed all these rules of human wisdom attain their perfection, when they meet
with a divine Spirit, that elevates them to a more transcendent use. Happy was that eloquence
of Paul’s, and something like the sweet inspiration of angels, by which they prevail with the
spirits of men. “Nevertheless, being crafty, (saith he,) I caught you with guile,” 2 Cor. xii.
16. These were piæ fraudes,(222) whereby he used to catch poor souls out of the pit, and pluck
them out of the fire; and he that said, “I will make you fishers of men,” taught them to use
some holy deceit, to present some things for the allurement of souls, and so to surround and
enclose them with most weighty and convincing reasons. This beloved apostle, who leaned upon
Christ’s bosom, and was likely to learn the very secrets of the art of fishing souls, you see
how he goeth about the business. He useth an holy art in this preface. Being about to give
a recapitulation of the whole gospel, and to make a short summary of the doctrine of it, for
the more effectual establishment and confirmation of souls already converted, and for the powerful
persuasion of others to embrace it, he useth all the skill that can be in the entry, to dispose
men’s hearts to receive it. Like a wise orator, he labours to make them allentos, dociles,
et benevolos, to stir up their attention, to conciliate their affection, and so to make them
docile and easily teachable. He stirs up attention, when he shows that he is not to speak about
trifling, light matters, or low things, or things that do not concern them, but concerning
the greatest, most concerning, and important things to them, even the Word of life, in which
all their life was wrapt up, which, though it was ancient in itself, yet withal it was a new
thing to the world, and so for all respects deserved to be taken serious notice of. Then he
conciliates their benevolence and good will, by showing his own good affection towards them,
and his great design in it, that it was only for their good and salvation; that he had nothing
else before him, but to have them partakers with himself, in that same happiness. He had found
a jewel, and he hides it not, but proclaims it, that all men may have fellowship with him,
and that is, with God, and that cannot but bring in full joy to the heart. Now a soul being
made thus attentive, and willing to hear, it is the best disposition that makes them most capable
of being taught. If those two stays were come over,—the careless regard that is in men’s hearts
towards the gospel, and the suspicious thoughts and prejudices against the ambassadors of it,—then
what would hinder to believe it? The great miseries of men are, inconsideration and misapprehension.
Either men are so noised with other things continually buzzing in their ears, and their hearts
so possessed with the clamours of their lusts, and the cries of the things of this world, that
they have no leisure so much as to hearken patiently to this blessed sound, or to apprehend
seriously what weight and moment lies in it, and so the most part of men cannot give that earnest
and deep attention that is necessarily required for this divine teaching, or else there are
many mistakes and misconceptions of the gospel, which sometimes arise to that height of reasoning
against God and prejudices against them that carry this message, which usually are joined together,
(and these stop the ears of men against the wisest and most powerful enchantment of preaching,)
that it gains not much ground on them.  O! that ye would once listen to the gospel. Hearken
and incline your ears unto me, is the Lord’s first great request, and if once you do but seriously
apply your minds and hearts to see what is held out unto you, and to prove what good is in
it certainly these sure and everlasting mercies will mercifully and sweetly catch you with
guile, and deceive you (if I may say so) to your eternal advantage. Wisdom, the Father’s wisdom,
begs but an equal hearing of you. Let her have but a patient hearing, and a silent impartial
judgment of the heart, and she will carry it off from all that suit(223) you.  It is lamentable
that the voice of God should be out cried by men’s continual uninterrupted flood of business,
that fills the heart with a continual noise, and keeps men in such a constant hurry and distemper
that they can give time and patience to nothing else.  And this is only the advantage the world
and the lusts of it have, for if they come once under a sober and serious examination, and
the other party, that is, Jesus Christ and the word of life, might have the liberty to be heard
in the inward retired thoughts of the heart, it would soon be found how unequal they are, and
that all their efficacy consists in our ignorance, and their strength in our weakness.  Certainly
Christ would carry it, to the conviction of all that is in the soul. I beseech you let us give
him this attention.

He that answers a tale before he hears it, it is a folly and weakness to him.  A folly certainly
it is to give this gospel a repulse before ye hear it.  It promiseth life and immortality,
which nothing else doth.  And you entertain other things upon lower promises and expectations,
even after frequent experiences of their deceitfulness. What a madness then is it to hear this
promise of life in Christ so often beaten upon you, and yet never so much as to put him to
the proof of it, and to put him off continually who knocks at your hearts, before you will
consider attentively, who it is that thus importunes you! O my beloved, that you would hear
him to Amen.  Let him speak freely to your hearts, and commune with them in the night on your
beds, in your greatest retirement from other things, that you may not be disturbed by the noise
of your lusts and business, and I persuade myself, you who have now least mind of this life,
and joy in God, should find it, and find it in him. But to cut off all convictions and persuasions
at first, and to set such a guard at your minds to provide that nothing of that kind come in,
or else that it be cast out as an enemy, this is unequal, ignorant, and unreasonable dealing,
which you alone will repent of, it may be too late, when past remedy.

He propounds that which he is to speak in the fittest way, for the commendation of it to their
hearts, and oh! how vast a difference betwixt this, and the ordinary subject of men’s discourses.
Our ears are filled continually with reports, and it is the usual way of men to delight to
hear, and to report even those things that are not so delightful in themselves.  And truly
there are not many occurrences in the world (suppose you had a diurnal of affairs of all men
every week) that can give any solid refreshment to the heart, except in the holy meditation
of the vanity, vexation, and inconstancy that God hath subjected all those things unto. But
it is sad that Christians, who have so noble and divine, so pleasant and profitable things
to speak upon one to another, are notwithstanding as much subject to that Athenian disease,
to be itching after new things continually, and to spend our time this way, to report, and
to hear news.  And, alas! what are those things that are tossed up and down continually, but
the follies, weaknesses, impotencies and wickedness, ambition and avarice of men, the iniquity
and impiety of the world that lies in wickedness? And is there any thing in this, either pleasant
or profitable, that we should delight to entertain our own thoughts, and others’ ears with
them? But the subject that is here entreated of, is of another nature. Nothing in itself so
excellent, nothing to us so convenient. That which was from the beginning, of the Word of life,
we declare unto you. O how pleasant and sweet a voice is that which sounds from heaven, be
those confused noises(224) are, that arise from the earth! This is a message that is come from
heaven, with him that came down from it. And indeed that is the airth(225) from whence good
news hath come. Since the first curse was pronounced upon the earth, the earth hath brought
forth nothing but thorns and briars of contention, strife, sorrow, and vexation. Only from
above hath this message been sent to renew the world again, and recreate it, as it were. There
are four properties by which this infinitely surpasses all other things that can be told you.
For itself it is most excellent; for its endurance it is most ancient, and to us it is most
profitable, and both in itself, and to us, it is most certain, and by these the apostle labours
to prepare their hearts to serious attention.

For the excellency of the subject that he is to declare,—it is incomparable, for it is no less
than that Jewel that is hid in the mine of the scriptures, which he, as it were, digs up, and
shows and offers unto them,—that Jewel (I say) which when a man hath found, he may sell all
to buy it,—that Jewel, more precious than the most precious desires and delights of men, even
Jesus Christ, the substantial Word of life, who is the substance of all the shadows of the
Old Testament, the end of that ministry, the accomplishment of the promises, and the very life
of all religion, without which there is nothing more vain and empty. It is true, the gospel
is the word of life, and holds out salvation to poor sinners, but yet it is Christ that is
the life of that word, not only as touching the efficacy and power of it, but as touching the
efficacy of it, for the gospel is a word of life only, because it speaks of him who is the
life and the light of men. It is but a report of the true life, as John said, “I am not that
light, but am sent to bear witness of that light,” John i. 8. So the gospel, though it be called
“the power of God to salvation,” (Rom. i. 16.) and “the savour of life,” and “the gospel of
salvation,” (Eph. i. 13.) yet it is not that true life, but only a testimony and declaration
of it. It hath not life and immortality in itself, but only the bringing of those to light,
and to the knowledge of men, 2 Tim. i. 10. It is a discovery where these treasures are lying,
for the searching and finding.

To speak of this Word of life, Jesus Christ, according to his eternal subsistence in the infinite
understanding of the Father, would certainly require a divine spirit, more elevated above the
ordinary sphere of men, and separate from that earthliness and impurity that makes us incapable
of seeing that holy and pure Majesty. Angels were but low messengers for this. For how can
they express to us what they cannot conceive themselves, and therefore wonder at the mystery
of it? I confess, the best way of speaking of these things, which so infinitely surpass created
capacities, were to sit down in silence, and wonder at them, and withal to taste such a sweetness,
in the immense greatness and infinite mysteriousness of what we believe, as might ravish the
soul more, after that which is unknown, than all the perfections of the world known and seen
to the bottom can do. This doctrine of the holy Trinity hath been propagated from the beginning
of the world, even among the heathens, and derived by tradition from the first fathers, or
the Hebrews, to neighbour nations; and therefore they speak many divine things of that infinite,
supreme Being, who is the foundation of the whole creation, and that he created all things
by his most divine Word, and that his blessed Spirit is the union and bond of both, and of
all things besides. It is known what mysteries the Pythagoreans(226) apprehended in the number
of three, what perfection they imagined to be in it, so much was let out, as might either make
them without excuse, or prepare the world to receive readily the light, when it should be clearly
revealed. It is commonly held forth, that this eternal Word is the birth of the infinite understanding
of God, reflecting upon his own most absolute and perfect Being, which is illustrated by some
poor comparison to us creatures, who form in our minds in the understanding of any thing, an
inward word or image of the object some representation and similitude of that we understand.
And this is more perfect than any external vocal expression can be. So we have a weak and finite
conception of the acting of that infinite wisdom of God, by which he knows himself, that there
results, as it were, upon it, the perfect substantial image, and the express character of the
divine essence, and therefore is the Son of God called “the Word” which was with God, and “the
Wisdom” of the Father, because he is, as it were, the very birth of his understanding and not
only the image of his own essence but the idea, in which he conceived, and by which he created
the visible world. Then we use to conceive the Holy Ghost as the production of his blessed
will, whereby he loves, delights and hath complacency in his own all sufficient, all blessed
Being, which he himself alone perfectly comprehends, by his infinite understanding, and therefore
called, “the Spirit,” a word borrowed from resemblance to poor creatures, who have many impulses,
and inclinations to several things, and are carried to motion and action, rather from that
part which is invisible in them, the subtilest part, therefore called spirits. So the Lord
applies his almighty power, and exerciseth his infinite wisdom according to the pleasure and
determination of his will, for that seems to be the immediate principle of working. Therefore
there is mention made of the Spirit, in the creation of the world. He sent out his Spirit,
and they were created, Psal. civ. 30. These are the weak and low attempts of men to reach the
height of that unsearchable mystery. Such conjectures we have of this word of God, and his
eternal generation, as if trees could take upon them to understand the nature of beasts, or
as if beasts would presume to give an account of the spirit that acts in men. Certainly the
distance is infinitely greater between God and us and he must needs behold greater vanity,
folly, and darkness, in our clearest apprehensions of his majesty than we could find in the
reasonings and conceptions of beasts about our nature. When our own conception in the womb
is such a mystery, as made David to say, O how wonderfully am I made, and fearfully! he saw
a curious art and wisdom in it that he could not understand, and he believed an infinite power
he could not conceive, which surprised his soul with such unexpected matter of wonder, as made
him fear and tremble at the thought of it,—I say, when the generation of a poor creature hath
so much depth of wisdom in it, how canst thou think to understand that everlasting wonder of
angels, the birth and conception of that eternal wisdom of God?

    1 John i. 1.—“That which was from the beginning,” &c.

Things are commended sometimes, because they are ancient, especially doctrines in religion,
because truth is before error, and falsehood is but an aberration from truth and therefore
there is so much plea and contention among men, about antiquity, as if it were the sufficient
rule of verity. But the abuse is, that men go not far enough backward in the steps of antiquity,
that is, to the most ancient rule, and profession, and practice of truth in scripture, to Christ
and his apostles, but halt in their grandfathers’ tombs. But sometimes things are commended,
because new. The nature of man being inclined to change and variety, and ready to surfeit and
loath accustomed things, even as the stomach finds appetite for new and unusual diets, so the
mind of man hath a secret longing after new doctrines and things. Now we have both these combined
together in this subject, which makes it the more excellent and wonderful,—antiquity, and novelty,
for antiquity, it is that which was from the beginning, and which was with the Father, and
that is before all antiquity, even from eternity, not only from the beginning of time, but
before all time, before all imaginable beginnings. He, of whom he speaks, Christ Jesus, the
Father’s Word, was with the Father from the beginning, with the Ancient of days who infinitely
and unmeasurably antedates all antiquity, to whose endurance all antiquity that is renowned
among men, is but novelty, to whom the world is but as of six days standing, or but as of yesterday,
if we consider that infinite, beginningless, immeasurable endurance of God, before this world,
what a boddom(227) or clew is that, that can never be untwined by the imaginations of men and
angels! To all eternity they should never unwind it and come to the end of that thread of the
age of the Father and the Son, who possessed one another before the hills were, and before
the foundations of the mountains. This is it that maketh religion the richest and most transcendent
subject in the world, that it presents us with a twofold eternity, and environs the soul before
and behind with an eternity without beginning, only proper to God, and an eternity without
and communicated to angels and men from God. That which was from the beginning, and before
all beginning, either real or imagined, how much moment and weight is in that, to persuade
a soul, and compose it, beyond all the specious and painted appearances of the world! To consider
that such a Saviour is holden out unto us, to come unto, and lean upon, that is the Rock of
ages, upon whose word this huge frame is bottomed, and stands firm,—one who infinitely exceeds
and prevents all things visible or invisible, all their mutations and changes,—one who was
possessed of the Father, as his delights, before the foundation of the world, and so most likely
to reconcile him to us, and prevail with him, yea, most certainly, they must have one will,
and one delight, who were undivided from all eternity, and they then rejoicing in the habitable
parts of the earth, taking complacency in their own thoughts of peace and good will they had
towards us, afterwards to break forth. And if both delighted in their very projects and plots
upon the business, what may we think the accomplishment of the whole design will add, if it
were possible to superadd to their delight? I would have you upon this, to gather two considerations,
for your edification. One, to think what an incomparably excellent Saviour we have, one with
God, equal to him, yea, one with him from all eternity, and so how strong a foundation there
is for faith and confidence, what a Rock to establish a tossed soul upon. Man’s misery and
curse being for all eternity, there is One to deliver from that, who was from all eternity.
And who could purchase unto us such absolute blessedness throughout all eternity, who was not
himself from all eternity? What marvellous congruity and beauty is in the ways of God? How
is all fitted and framed by infinite wisdom, to the end that we may have strong consolation?
Do you not see the infinite evil and heinousness of sin, in the giving of such a precious ransom
for it? O how is the black visage of sin portrayed in the beauty and glory of the Mediator’s
person? How is it painted, even to horror, in his death? Again, what divinity and worth is
put upon the immortal soul of man, that is but of yesterday, since the beginning, when he that
was the delight of God, before all beginning, is weighed in the balance, as it were with it,
and no other thing found sufficient for exchange and compensation, that the soul may be redeemed?
And doth not this answer all the jealousies and suspicious thoughts, and fearful apprehensions,
arising from the consideration of our own weakness and infirmity, when such an One is offered,
as is able to save to the utmost? Then I would desire you may believe, that the Father is as
well minded to the salvation of sinners, as the Son, for they were sweet company together from
all eternity, and, as it were, contrived this plot and design between them, to save and redeem
mankind. Some entertain harsher thoughts of the Father, as if Christ were more accessible,
and exorable. But the truth is, he hath given his Son this command, and therefore he professed,
that it was not so much his will, as his Father’s, he was about.    Therefore correct your
apprehensions, do not stand aback from the Father, as it were till you have prevailed with
Christ. No, that is not the way. Come in your first address to the Father, in the Son, for
so he wills you, not because he must be overcome by his Son’s persuasion but because he would
have his love to run in that channel through Christ to us. And indeed our Saviour was much
in holding out the love of the Father, and laboured to persuade the world of it. Withal, I
wish you to consider whom ye neglect and despise who hear this gospel duly, and the Word of
life holden out unto you and yet suffer not your hearts to be moved, or stirred after him.
Alas, my beloved, to forsake so great a mercy, as the eternal Word of life as the infinite
Wisdom of the Father, and to let the offer of this every day run by us, and never to find leisure
and vacancy from the multitude of businesses and throng of the thoughts and lusts of the world,
never to start so far backward, as to look beyond this world, to God, and his Son Jesus Christ,
never to mind seriously either him that was before all things visible, or our own souls, that
must survive and outlive all this visible frame. This, I say, is the great misery and condemnation
of the world, that this eternal Light hath shined, and you love your own darkness better. But
be persuaded that one day ye will think one offer of this Word of life better than life—better,
infinitely better than the most absolute life that the attendance and concurrence of all the
creatures could yield you. O then that ye would incline your ears and hearts to this that is
declared unto you to receive this Word of life that was from the beginning, and ye may be persuaded
ye shall enjoy a blessedness without end!

But here is withal a newness in this subject, which both increases admiration and may the more
engage our affection. For “the life was manifested” saith he, ver. 2, and he is such a Word
of life as though he was invisible and untouchable from the beginning, yet he was lately clothed
with flesh that made him both visible and capable of being handled. Now truly these are the
two poles about which the mystery, glory and wonder of Christianity turns,—the antiquity of
his real existence as God, and the lateness or novelty of his appearance in the flesh as man,—nothing
so old, for he hath the infinite forestart of the oldest and most ancient creatures. Take those
angels, the sons of God, who sung together in the first morning of the creation yet their generation
can soon be told, and their years numbered. It is easy to calculate all antiquity, and we should
not reach six thousand years, when it is taken at the largest measure. And what are six thousand
years in his sight, but as six days when they are past? And if we would run backward, as far
before that point of beginning, and calculate other six thousand, yet we are never a jot nearer
the age of the Son of God. Suppose a mountain of sand as big as the earth, and an angel to
take from it one grain in every year, your imagination would weary itself, ere ye reckoned
in what space this mountain should be diminished, or removed. It would certainly trouble the
arithmetic of the wisest mathematician. Now imagine as many years or ages of years to have
run out before the world took its beginning, as the years in which the angel would exhaust
this mountain, yet we have not come a whit nearer the endurance of our Lord and Saviour, whose
Being is like a circle, without beginning or end. “Behold he is great and we know him not,
and the number of his years cannot be searched out,”? Job xxxvi. 26. And who can tell his generation?
The age of this Word is such a labyrinth, with innumerable turnings and windings in it, as
will always lead them round that enter in it. And so they are, after the longest progress and
search, but just where they were, always beginning, and never coming nearer the beginning of
his duration, because it is the beginning of all things that hath a beginning but hath none itself.

Now he that was thus blessed from everlasting, who dwelt in inaccessible light and glory, which
no man hath seen, nor can see, infinitely removed from all human capacities and senses,—he,
I say begins to be manifested in the fulness of time. And to make himself visible, he takes
on our flesh,—and all for this purpose, that he who was the substantial life in himself, and
the eternal life, in an essential and necessary way, might become life to poor dead sinners,
and communicate to them eternal life. And truly it was no wonder that all ages were in the
expectation of this from the beginning of the world since it was first promised,—that the inhabitants
of heaven were in a longing expectation to see and look into this mystery, for there is something
in it more wonderful than the creation of this huge frame of heaven and earth, God’s footstool!
The thunder, how glorious and terrible a voice! In a word, the being, the beauty the harmony,
and proportion of this huge frame, is but a visible appearance of the invisible God. But in
taking on our flesh, the Word is more wonderfully manifested, and made visible, for, in the
first, the Creator made creatures to start out of nothing at his command, but in this, the
Creator is made a creature. He once gave a beginning of being to things that were not. Being
before all beginning himself, he now takes a beginning, and becomes flesh, that he was not.
And what is it in which he was manifested? Is it the spiritual nature of angels? But though
that far excel ours yet it is no manifestation of him to us, for he should still be as unknown
as ever. Is it in the glory, perfection, and power of the visible world, as in the sun, and
lights of heaven? But though that have more show of glory than the flesh of man, yet it makes
not much to our comfort,—there would not be so much consolation in that manifestation. Therefore,
O how wisely and wonderfully is it contrived, for the good of lost man that the Son of God
shall be made of a woman, that the Father of spirits shall be manifested in the lowest habit
of our flesh, and the lower and baser that be in which he appears, the higher the mystery is
and the richer the comfort is. Suppose the manifestation of glory should not be so great, yet
the manifestation of love is so much the greater. And this is the great design, “God so loved
the world” &c. John iii. Nay, I may say, even the glory of the only begotten Son of God was
the more visibly manifested, that he appeared in so low and unequal a shape. For power to show
itself in weakness, for glory to appear in baseness, for divinity to kythe(228) in humanity,
and such glorious rays to break forth from under such a dark cloud, this was greater glory,
and more majesty, than if he had only showed himself in the perfection of the creatures. Now
it is easy to distinguish the vail from that it covers,—to separate infirmity from divinity.
But then it had been more difficult, if his outward appearance had been so glorious, to give
unto God what was God’s, and to give the creatures what was the creatures’. The more near his
outward shape had been to his divine nature, the less able had we been to see the glory of
his divinity through it.

Now, my beloved, when both these are laid together, the ancientness of our Saviour, and withal
the newness of his appearance in the flesh by which he hath come so near us, and, as it were,
brought his own Majesty within our sphere, to be apprehended by us,—and for no other end but
to make life and immortality to shine forth as beams from him, to the quickening of dead souls,—O
how should this conjunction endear him to us! That the everlasting Father should become a child
for us, that is one wonder. The next wonder is, that we who are enemies should be made the
children of God by him. When the dark and obscure prophesying of this,—when the twilight of
Jewish types and shadows did create so much joy in the hearts of believers, insomuch that they
longed for and rejoiced to see afar off that day,—when such a dark representation of this Word
of life, was the very life of the godly in the world for four thousand years,—O how much is
the cause of joy increased, by the rising of the Sun of righteousness himself, and his appearing
in the very darkest night of superstition and idolatry that ever was over the world! When the
true Life hath risen himself, and brought to open light that life that was obscurely couched
up in prophecies and ceremonies, as hid under so many clouds. O then, let us open our hearts
to him, and then entertain these new and fresh tidings with new delights. Though these be now
more than sixteen hundred years old, yet they are still recent to a believing heart. There
is an everlasting spring in them, that sends out every day fresh consolation to souls, as refreshing
as the first day this spring was opened. This is the new wine that never grows old, nay, it
is rather every generation renewed, with the accession of some new manifestation of the love
of God. Christ’s incarnation was the first manifestation of the Son, the very morning of light
and life, the dayspring visiting the world that was buried in an hellish darkness of heathen
idolatry, and even the church of God, in the grave of superstition and corruption of doctrine
and manners. Then did that Sun of righteousness first set up his head above the horizon. But
it is but one day still. He hath been but coming by degrees to the meridian and “shining more
and more to the perfect day.” That Sun hath not set since, but made a course, and gone round
about the world, in the preaching of the gospel, and brought life and light about, by succession,
from one nation to another, and one generation to another. And therefore we ought to entertain
it this day with acclamations and jubilation of heart, as the people that lie under the north
do welcome the sun when it comes once a year to them. “After that the kindness and love of
God our Saviour toward man appeared,” Tit. iii. 4, φιλανθρωπα, his kindly and affectionate
love to mankind. That is it that shines so brightly. The beams of grace and love to men, are
the rays that are scattered from this Sun of righteousness. O the hardness of men’s hearts,
the impenetrable obstinacy of man, that this cannot melt or pierce! How damnable and miserable
a case are they into who can neither be persuaded with the eternity of this subject, to adore
it, nor moved with the late appearance of the love of God to the world, in sending of his Son—whom
neither Christ’s majesty nor his humility can draw! Certainly this makes sinners under the
gospel in a more deplorable condition than Sodom, because if he had not come, they had not
had such sin, but now it is without excuse, &c.

Sermon III.

    1 John i. 13.—“That which we have heard and seen of the Word of
    life, declare we unto you,” &c.

Things that are excellent in themselves will be loved for themselves; but they become the more
suitable object of affection, if they have withal some suitableness and conveniency to us.
Yet neither the excellency nor conveniency of the object is sufficient to engage the heart,
if there be not something in the mind too, suitable to the object; that is, the apprehension
of that reality and good that is in it. For, as there is a certainty in the object, that makes
it a real, not imaginary thing, so there must be a certainty in the subject, whereby the thing
is apprehended to be true, good, and excellent, and then the object of affection is completed.
Some things there are in nature, excellent in themselves, but they rather beget admiration
than affection, because they are not suitable to our necessities. Other things of a more ordinary
purchase have some conveniency to supply our wants, and though they be less worth in their
own nature than precious stones and such like, yet they are more desired. But there is this
lamentable disproportion betwixt our apprehensions and the things themselves, which is the
ground of much disappointment, and so of vexation. The things of this world having nothing
of that solid excellency, or true worth, and conveniency to our souls nothing suitable to our
immortal spirits, but being empty vain shadows, and windy husks, instead of substantial true
food, yet there are high apprehensions, and big conceits of them, which is a kind of monstrous
production, or empty swelling of the mind, which because it hath no bottom of solidity, it
will fail and vanish. Again, take a view of spiritual things, holden out in the gospel, and
there is as incongruous and unproportioned carriage of our hearts toward them. They have a
certainty and reality and subsistence in themselves, they alone are excellent, and suitable
to our spirits. Notwithstanding, the mind of man is most hugely misshapen towards them by unbelief,
and hath nothing in his apprehension suitable to the things themselves. They are represented
as far below in the true worth, as things temporal above their just value, and therefore men
are not enamoured with them, souls are not ravished after that beauty that is in them.

Now the end of these words read is, to reform this irregular, disorderly posture of our minds,
to hold out to you things truly excellent, and exceedingly convenient,—things good and profitable,
in the most superlative degree, in the highest rank that your imaginations can suppose, and
then to persuade you, that you are not deceived with vain words, or fair promises, but that
there is a certain truth, and an infallible reality in them, that you being ascertained in
your souls, according to the certainty of the thing presented, you may then freely, without
any reserve, give your hearts to love, embrace, and follow them. O that there might be such
a meeting between your hearts and this eternal Life, that as he hath come near to us, to be
suitable to us, your apprehensions might draw near to be suitable to him, and by this means,
your souls might meet immediately with that Word of life, and have that constant fellowship
with him that is spoken of verse 3! So your joy should be full,—for joy is but the full peace
of the desires. Fill up all the wants of the heart, and then it is full of joy.

We spoke something of the excellency of that “Word of life” in himself, and it is but little
that is said, when all is said, in respect of that which he truly is. But I fear we speak,
and ye hear more of these things, than either of us lively and affectionately apprehend, or
lay up in our hearts I fear, that as we say less than is, so more than we think, I mean, seriously
think upon. But we shall proceed. Such an everlasting glorious person, though he have life
in himself, though he be never so excellent as “the Son of God,” yet what is that to us? It
seems he is never a whit nearer us, or not more suitable to restore us, than the very Majesty
that we offended. How far is he without our sight, and without our comprehension? He is high
as heaven, who shall ascend to bring down that eternal Life to us? But stay and consider that
he is not only so glorious in himself, but so gracious to us, he is not only invisible, as
God, but manifested to our senses, as man: not only hath life in himself, but is an everlasting
spring of life to us; not only hath his throne in heaven with his Father, but hath come down
to the world, to bring that eternal life near us even in our mouths and hearts,—to preach it,
to purchase it, to seal it, and to bestow it, and the life was manifested,—the life, and that
eternal life, words of force, that have some emphasis in them. The life is much, that eternal
life is more, and yet these had been little to us, if not manifested to us. Life might have
remained hid in God, eternal life might have resided in Christ, the fountain, for all eternity,
and nothing diminished of their happiness if these had never sprung out and vented themselves.
If that life that was with the Father from the beginning had never come down from the Father,
we would have missed it, not they, we alone had been miserable by it. Well then, there is a
manifestation of life in Christ’s low descent to death, there is a manifestation of the riches
of love and grace in the poverty and emptiness of our Saviour, and thus he is suited to us
and our necessities every way fitly correspondent. And now it is not only, “as the Father hath
life in himself, so the Son hath life in himself,” but there is a derivation of that life to
man. That donation of life to the Son, John v. 26, was not so much for any need he had of it,
as by him to bestow it on us, that it might be, “As the living Father hath sent me, and I live
by the Father, so he that eats me, even he shall live by me,” John vi. 57. As parents that
retain affection to their children, albeit they have committed great injuries, for which they
are driven out of their houses, yet they will, as it were, underhand bestow upon them, and
exercise that same love in a covered way, by a third person, by giving to them, to impart to
their children. Notwithstanding this halts too much, for our Father dissembles not his love,
but proclaims it in sending his Son, not doth Christ hide it, but declares, that he is instructed
with sufficient furniture(229) for eternal life, that himself is the bread of life sent from
heaven, that whosoever receiveth it with delight, and ponders, and meditates on it in the heart,
and so digests it in their souls, they shall find a quickening, quieting, comforting, and strengthening
virtue in him. Nay, there is a strait connection between his life and ours, “because I live,
ye shall live also;” as if he could no more want us, than his Father can want him, (John xiv.
19.) and as if he could be no more happy without us, than his Father without him. And whence
is it come to pass, but from his manifestation for this very end and purpose? How should such
strange logic hold? Whence such a because, if this had not been all his errand into the world,
for which his Father dispensed to want him as it were, and he did likewise condescend to leave
his Father for a season? And now this being the business he came about, it is strange he appeared
in so unsuitable and unlikely a form, in weakness, poverty, misery, ignominy, and all the infirmities
of our flesh which seemed rather contrary to his design, and to indispose him for giving life
to others whose life was a continued death in the eyes of men. And the last act of the scene
seems to blow up the whole design of quickening dead sinners, when he who was designed Captain
of salvation, is killed himself. For if he save not himself, how should he save others? And
yet behold the infinite wisdom, power, and grace of God, working under ground, giving life
to the dead by the death of life itself, saving those that are lost by one that lost himself,
overcoming the world by weakness, conquering Satan by suffering, triumphing over death by crying.
Like that renowned king of the Lacedemonians, who, when he heard of an oracle, that if the
general were saved alive, the army could not be victorious, changed his habit, and went among
the camp of his enemies, and fought valiantly till he was killed, whom when the armies of the
enemies understood to be the king and general, they presently lost their hearts, and retired
and fled.(230) So our Saviour, and captain of our salvation, hath offered himself once for
all, and by being killed hath purchased life to all that believe in his death, and that eternal
life. Therefore, he is not only the Word of life in himself, and that eternal life in an essential
manner, but he alone “hath the words of eternal life, and is the alone fountain of life to us.”

Now for the certainty of this manifestation of the Word of life in our flesh, both that he
was man, and that he was more than a man, even God, this, I say we have the greatest evidence
of that the world can afford, next to our own seeing and handling. To begin with the testimony
set down here, of those who were ear and eye witnesses of all, which, if they be men of credit,
cannot but make a great impression of faith upon others. Consider who the apostles were, men
of great simplicity, whose education was so mean, and expectations in the world so low that
they could not be supposed to conspire together to a falsehood, and especially when there was
no worldly inducement leading them thereto, but rather all things persuading to the contrary.
Their very adversaries could never object any thing against them, but want of learning, and
simplicity which are furthest from the suspicion of deceitfulness. Now how were it possible,
think you, that so many thousands every where, should have received this new doctrine, so unsuitable
to human reason, from their mouths, if they had not persuaded them that themselves were eye
witnesses of all these miracles that he did, to confirm his doctrine, and that this testimony
had been above all imaginable exception? Yea, so evident was it in matter of fact, that both
enemies themselves confessed, the Jews and Gentiles that persecuted that way, were constrained,
through the evidence of the truth, to acknowledge, that such mighty works showed forth themselves
in him, though they out of malice imputed it to ridiculous and blasphemous causes. And besides,
the apostle used to provoke(231) to the very testimony of five hundred, who had seen Jesus
rise from death, which is not the custom of liars, neither is it possible for so many, as it
were, of purpose, to conspire to such an untruth, as had so many miseries and calamities following
on the profession of it, 1 Cor. xv. 6.

But what say they? That which we have heard of, not only from the prophets, who have witnessed
of him from the beginning, and do all conspire together to give a testimony that he is the
Saviour of the world, but from John, who was his messenger, immediately sent before his face,
and whom all men, even Christ’s enemies, acknowledged to be a prophet, and therefore his visible
pointing out the Lamb of God, his declaring how near he was, and preferring of him infinitely
before himself, who had so much authority himself, (and so likely to have spoken the truth,
being misled with no ambition or affectation of honour,) his instituting a new ordinance, plainly
pointing out the Messiah at the doors, and publishing constantly that voice, “the kingdom of
heaven is at hand,”—these we, and all the people have heard,—and heard, not with indignation,
but with reverence and respect. But above all, we heard himself, the true prophet and sweet
preacher of Israel, since the first day he began to open his mouth in the ministry of the gospel,
we have with attentive ears, and earnest hearts, received all from his mouth, and laid up these
golden sayings in our hearts. He did not constrain them to abide with him, but there was a
secret power that went from him, that chained them to him inevitably, “Lord, whither shall
we go from thee, for thou hast the words of eternal life?” O! that was an attractive virtue,
a powerful conserving virtue, that went out of his mouth. We heard him, say they, and we never
heard any speak like him, not so much for the pomp and majesty of his style, for he came low,
sitting on an ass, and was as condescending in his manner of speech as in his other behaviour,
but because “he taught with authority.” There was a divine virtue in his preaching. Some sparkles
of a divine Spirit and power in his discourses broke out from under the plainness and simplicity
of it, and made our souls truly to apprehend of him what was sacrilegiously attributed in flattery
to a man “the voice of God, and not of man.” We heard him so many years speak familiarly to
us, and with us, by which we were certainly persuaded he was a true man and then we heard him
in his speeches open the hidden mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, revealing the will of the
Father, which no man could know, but he that was with the Father, and came down from him. We
heard him unfolding all these shadows and coverings of the Old Testament, expounding Moses
and the prophets, taking off the veil, and uncovering the ark and oracles and “how did our
hearts burn within us, while he talked with us and opened to us the scriptures?” We heard him
daily in the synagogues expound the scriptures, whereof himself was the living commentary.
When he read them, we saw the true exposition before our eyes.

Now, my beloved, you may be admitted to hear him too for the sum of the living words that came
from the “Word of life” are written. His sermons are abridged in the evangelists, that you
may read them and when you read them, think within yourself, that you hear his holy mouth speak
them. Set yourselves as amongst his disciples that so ye may believe, and believing, may have
eternal life, for this end are they written, John xx. 30, 31.

Sermon IV.

    1 John i. 1, 2.—“Which we have heard and seen,” &c.

There is a gradation of certainty here. Hearing himself speak, is more than hearing by report,
but an eye-witness is better that ten ear witnesses, and handling adds a third assurance, for
the sense of touching gives the last and greatest evidence of truth. It is true, that the sense
is properly correspondent to sensible things, and of itself can only give testimony to his
humanity, yet I conceive these are here alleged for both, even also to witness his glorious
and divine nature, which though it did not fall under sight and handling, yet it discovered
itself to be latent, under that visible covering of flesh, by sensible effects, no less than
the spirit of man, which is invisible, manifests its presence in the body, by such operations
sensible, as can proceed from no other principle. And therefore, this faithful witness adds,
“which we have looked upon,” which relates not only to the outward attention of the eyes, but
points at the inward intention, and affection of the heart. Our senses did bring in such strange
and marvellous objects to our minds, that we stood gazing, and beheld it over and over again,
looked upon it with reason, concluding what it might be. We gave entertainment to our minds,
to consider it wisely and deliberately, and fastened our eyes, that we might detain our hearts,
in the consideration of such a glorious person. From this then ye have two things clear. One
is, that the Lord Jesus Christ was a true man, and that his disciples had all possible evidence
of it, which the history more abundantly shows. He conversed with them familiarly, he eat and
drank with them, yea his conversation in the world was very much condescending in outward behaviour
to the customs of the world. He eat with Pharisees, when they invited him he refused not, but
he was more bold with publicans and sinners, to converse with them, as being their greatest
friend. He was uncivil to none, would deter none through a rigid austere conversation, and
indeed, to testify the truth of his human nature, he came so low as to partake of all human
infirmities without sin, and to be subject to such extraordinary afflictions and crosses, as
to the eyes of the world did quite extinguish his divine glory, and bury it in misbelief. This
which we speak of, as a testimony and evidence that he was man, was the very grand stumbling
block and offence of the Jews and Gentiles, which they made use of as an evidence and certain
testimony that he was not God. The evidence of the one seems to give an evidence to the other.
But let us consider this, for it is a sweet and pleasant subject, if our hearts were suitably
framed to delight in it, that there was as much evidence to the conviction of all men’s senses,
of his divine majesty, as of his human infirmity,—and that there are two concurring evidences,
which enlighten one another, which we shall show, partly from his own works and miracles, and
partly from the more than miraculous success and progress of the gospel after him.

For the first, John testifies, that not only they saw the baseness of his outward shape, but
“the glory of the only begotten Son of God, full of grace and truth,” John i. 14. John the
Baptist sent some of his disciples, because of their own unbelief, to inquire at Jesus, “Art
thou he, or look we for another?” And what answer gave he them? What reason to convince them?
It is said in Luke vii. 21, that “the same hour he cured many.” Before he spoke in answer,
he answered them by his deeds. He gave a visible demonstration of that they doubted of, for
they could not but see a power above created power in these works, which surpass nature and
art, so many wonderful works done, so often repeated, before so many thousands, even many of
his watchful and observant enemies, and all done so easily, by a word, infinite cures for number
and quality wrought, which passed the skill of all physicians, devils dispossessed, life restored,
water converted into excellent wine, without the maturation of the sun, or the help of the
vine tree, a little bread so strangely enlarged to the satisfaction of many thousands, and
more remaining than was laid down, the winds and seas obeying his very word, and composing
themselves to silence at his rebuke, and infinite more of this kind. Are they not in the common
apprehension of men of a degree superior to that of nature? Who could restore life but he that
gave it? Whom would the devils obey but him at whom they tremble? Who could transubstantiate
water into wine, but he that created both these substances, and every year, by a long circuit
of the operations of nature, turns it into wine? Who could feed seven thousand with that which
a few persons would exhaust, but he that can create it of nothing, and by whose word all this
visible world started out of nothing? Nay, let us suppose these things to be done only by divine
assistance, by some peculiar divine influence, then certainly, if we consider the very end
of this miraculous assistance of a creature, that it was to confirm the doctrine delivered
by him, and make such a deep impression of the truth of it in the hearts of all, that it cannot
be rooted out,—this being the very genuine end of the wisdom of God in such works, it must
needs follow, that all that which Christ revealed, both of himself and the Father, of his own
being with him from the beginning, of his being one with him, and being his eternal Son, all
this must needs be infallibly true, for it is not supposable to agree with the wisdom and goodness
of God, to manifest so much of his infinite power and glory, in so extraordinary a manner,
to bear testimony to an impostor or deceiver. Therefore, though no more could be at first extorted
from an enemy of Christ’s doctrine, but that such mighty works did show forth themselves, which
could not be done but by the divine assistance and extraordinary help of God, yet, even from
that confession it may be strongly concluded, that seeing there was no other end imaginable
of such extraordinary assistance, but the confirmation of his new doctrine, and that of his
divine nature, being one of the chief points of it, it must needs enforce, that he was not
only helped by God, as Moses, but that he was God, and did these things by his own power. By
this, then, it appears, that though after so many prophecies of him, and expectations from
the beginning, we see but a man, in outward appearance despisable, and without comeliness and
form, yet if we could open the eyes of our souls, and fix them upon him, we behold, as through
some small crannies, majesty shining in his misery, power discovering itself in his weakness,
even that power that made the world, and man too. He was born indeed, yet of a virgin, he was
weak and infirm himself, yet he healed all others’ infirmities, even by his word. He was often
an hungered, yet he could feed five thousand at one time, and seven thousand at another, upon
that which would not have served his disciples, or but served them. He was wearied with travels,
yet he gave rest to wearied souls. At length himself died, and that an ignominious death, notwithstanding
he raised the dead by his word and at length he raised himself by his own power. All this is
included in this, “We have seen and handled.” We saw him gloriously transfigured on the mount,
where his countenance did shine as the sun and his raiment was white as light, and two, the
greatest persons in the Old Testament, came out of heaven, as it were, to yield up the administration
of shadows to his substance. And we saw the heaven opening in the sight of many thousands,
and heard a testimony given him from heaven, “This is my beloved Son, hear him.” And then,
when he was buried, and our hope with him, we saw him risen again, and our hope did rise with
him, and then some of us handled his sides to get full persuasion, and all of us ate and drank,
and conversed with him forty days. And to make a period, at length we saw him ascending up
to heaven, and a cloud receiving him as a chariot, to take him out of our sight. Thus, “the
Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, as of the only begotten
Son of God.”

But besides that which the life and death of Jesus Christ carries engraven in it of divinity,
there is one miracle, which may be said to transcend all that ever was done, and it is one
continued wonder since his resurrection, even the virtue and power of that crucified Saviour
to conquer the world, by such unsuitable, yea, contrary means and instruments. Heathenish religion
was spread indeed universally through the world, but that was not one religion, but one name.
For as many nations, as many fancied gods, and in one nation many. And true it is that Mahometanism
hath spread itself far. But by what means? Only by the power of the sword, and the terror of
an empire.(232) But here is a doctrine contrary to all the received customs and inbred opinions
of men, without any such means prevailing throughout the world. Cyrus,(233) when he was about
to conquer neighbouring nations, gave out a proclamation, “If any will follow me, if he be
a foot man, I will make him an horse-man, if he have a village, I will give him a city, if
a city, I will bestow on him a country;” &c. Now mark how contrary the proceeding of our Lord
is . “Go and preach, (saith he) repent ye, for the kingdom of God is at hand.” Here is his
proclamation, “Repent ye.” And, “If any man will be my disciple, let him take up his cross
and follow me, and deny himself.” What disproportioned means! And yet how infinitely greater
success! Cyrus could not gain the Lacedemonians to his side for all that, but Christ, though
poor, despised, and contemptible while alive, and at length thought to be quite vanquished
by the most shameful death, when he is lifted up upon the cross to the view and reproach of
the world, he draws all men after him. He, by a few fishermen, not commanders, nor orators,
persuades the world, and within a few years, that crucified Lord is adored further and wider
than any empire did ever stretch itself. All the power, majesty, and success of Alexander,
could never persuade the nations, no, not his own followers, to adore him as God.(234) But
here one nailed to the cross, crowned with thorns, rejected of all men, and within a little
space, adored, worshipped, suffered for throughout the nations, yea, kings and emperors casting
down their crowns at his feet, many thousands counting it their honour to die upon that account.
And do not the trophies of these apostolic victories remain to this day, in every corner of
the world, after so many hundred years, in so many different and so far distant nations,—that
same name preached and all knees bowing to it? These things considered, how much done, and
by means worse than nothing, it transcends all the miracles that ever the world wondered at.
Now, my beloved, these things I mention for this end, that ye may be persuaded upon sure grounds,
that he who is preached unto you, is God able to save you, and according to the evidence of
these grounds, ye may believe in him, and give that cordial assent to these everlasting truths,
and that welcome entertainment to him in your heart that becomes. I think certainly there is
very little, even of this solid assent and persuasion of the gospel, in the hearts of the most
part, because they take things or names rather implicitly, and never seriously consider what
they believe, and upon what grounds. But I know not a more pleasant and profitable meditation
than this, if we would enter into a serious consideration of the truth and certainty of these
things we have received. O how would such evidence open the heart to an entire and full closure
with them, and embracement of them!

Sermon V.

    1 John i. 3.—“That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto
    you, that ye also may have fellowship with us,” &c.

There are many things that you desire to hear, and it may be are usually spoken of in public,
which the generality of men’s hearts are more carried after.  But truly, I should wrong myself
and you both if I should take upon me to discourse in these things, which, it may be, some
desire, for direction or information concerning the times, for I can neither speak of them
with so much certainty of persuasion as were needful, nor can I think it an advantage, to shut
out and exclude this which the apostle takes to declare, as the chief subject of his writing,
which must needs be, if such things have place. Therefore I choose rather with the apostle
to declare this unto you, which I can always do with alike certainty and certainly might always
be done to an infinite greater advantage. There are these two peculiar excellencies in the
gospel or word of life, that it is never unprofitable, nor unseasonable, but doth contain in
it, at all times, the greatest advantage to the souls of men, of infinite more concernment
and urgency than any other thing can be supposed to be. And then we have no doubtful disputations
about it. It varies not by times and circumstances. It may be declared with the same full assurance
at all times, which certainly cannot be attained in other things. I would gladly know what
Paul meant, when he said, he determined to know nothing but Jesus Christ, and him crucified,
(1 Cor. ii. 2) and that he counted all dross and dung to the super excellent knowledge of Jesus
Christ, Phil. iii. 8. Sure it must amount to so much at least, that this should be the ordinary
subject of the ministers of the gospel, since they are the ambassadors of Jesus Christ, not
the orators of the state. Should not all other things be thought impertinent and trivial in
respect of this,—the salvation of sinners? And what hath a connection with that, but Jesus
Christ and the word of life?

But though this be the most pleasant and profitable subject, yet I fear that few of them who
pretend a calling to this embassage, are thus qualified and disposed to speak and declare it,
as the apostle imports, “that which we have heard and seen,” &c. It is true, there was something
extraordinary in this, because they were to be first publishers of this doctrine, and to wrestle
against the rebellion of men’s hearts, and the idolatry and superstition of the world,—yea,
to undertake such a work, as to subdue all nations by the preaching of a crucified man to them
which seemed to reason the most desperate and impossible employment ever given or taken. Therefore,
it behoved them to be the eye and ear witnesses of his doctrine, life, miracles, and all, that
being themselves persuaded beyond all the degrees of certainty that reason can afford, they
might be the more confident and able to convince and persuade others. But yet there is something
that holds by good proportion, that he that declares this eternal life to others should be
well acquainted with it himself. He that preaches Jesus Christ, should first be conversant
with him, and become his disciple and follower, before he can with any fruit become a teacher
of others. Therefore the apostles, (Acts 1) chose out one that had been with them from the
beginning, gone in and out with them, seen and heard all. O how incongruous is it for many
of us, to take upon us to declare this unto others, which I fear, few can say they have heard
and seen in a spiritual manner, and handled by experience! No question, it prevails usually
most with the heart, that comes from the heart. Affection is the fire that is most suitable
to set affection on flame. It is a great addition to a man’s power and virtue in persuading
others, to have a full persuasion settled in his own heart concerning these things. Now it
is much to be lamented, that there is so little of this, and so few carry the evidence on their
hearts and ways that they have been with Jesus conversant in his company. I cannot say but
the ordinances that carry their worth and dignity from God, and not from men, should be notwithstanding
precious to your hearts, and that word of life, however, and by whomsoever sent, if to you
it be spoken, it should be suitably received with gladness of heart. But I confess, there is
much of the success disappointed, by the unsuitable carriage and disposition of instruments,
which ought to be mourned under, as the greatest judgment of this nation.

Two principles hath acted this divine apostle, the exceeding love of his Master, for he loved
much as he was much beloved. And this carries him on all occasions to give so hearty a testimony
to him, as you see, John xxi. 24, he characterised himself, or circumscribes his own name thus
“This is the disciple that testifieth these things, and wrote these things, and we know his
testimony is true.”  Where that divine love which is but the result and overflowing of the
love Christ carries to us, fills the heart, this makes the sweetest vent and most fragrant
opening of the mouth, whether in discourse, or in prayer, or preaching, that can be. O how
it perfumes all the commendation of Christ! “Peter, lovest thou me? Feed my sheep.” These have
a natural connection together,—the love of Christ in the heart, and the affectionate, hearty,
serious declaration of him to others. And then, another principle hath moved him,—the love
of others’ salvation. “These things I declare, that ye may have fellowship with us.” Finding
in his own experience how happy he was, what a pearl he had found, how rare a jewel,—eternal
life,—he cannot hide it, but proclaims it. His next wish is now since I am thus blessed, O
that all the world knew, and would come and share with me! I see that unexhausted fountain
of life,—that unemptiable sea of goodness,—that infinite fulness of grace in Jesus Christ,
that I, and you, and all that will, may come and be satisfied, and nothing diminished. There
is that immense fulness in spiritual things, that superabundance and infinite excess over our
necessities, that they may be enjoyed by many, by all, without envy or discontent, without
prejudice to one another’s fulness which the scantiness and meanness of created things cannot
admit. I believe, if ministers or Christians did taste of this, and had access into it to see
it, and bless themselves in it,—if they might enter into this treasury, or converse into this
company, they would henceforth carry themselves as those who pity the world, and compassionate
mankind. A man that were acquainted with this that is in Christ, would not find his heart easily
stirred up to envy or provoked upon others’ prosperity or exaltation, but rather he would be
constrained to commiserate all others, that they will not know nor consider wherein their own
true tranquillity and absolute satisfaction consists. He that is lifted up to this blessed
society to converge with God, were it not for the compassion and mercy he owes to miserable
mankind, he might laugh at the follies and vanities of the world, as we do at children. But
as the φιλανθρωπια, the affectionate, kind love our Saviour carried to human nature, made him
often groan and sigh for his adversaries, and weep over Jerusalem, albeit his own joy was full,
without ebb, so in some measure a Christian learns of Christ to be a lover and pitier of mankind,
and then to be moved with compassion towards others, when we have fullest joy and satisfaction
ourselves. O that we might be persuaded to seek after these things which may be gotten and
kept without clamour and contention,—about which there needs be no strife nor envy! O! seek
that happiness in fellowship with God, which, having attained, you lack nothing but that others
may be as happy.

“These things I declare, that ye may have fellowship with us.” O that ministers of the gospel
might say so, and might from their own experience invite others to partake with them! As Paul
requests others to be followers of him, as he was of Christ, so those who succeed Paul in this
embassage of reconciliation, and are sent to call to the feast, might upon good ground interpose
their own experience thus. O! come and eat with us,—O! come and share with us, for it will
suffice us all without division. When some get into the favour of great and eminent persons,
and have the honour to be their companions, they will be very loath to invite promiscuously
others to that dignity, this society would beget competition and emulation. But O! of how different
a nature is this fellowship, which whosoever is exalted to, he hath no other grief, but that
his poor brethren and fellow creatures either know not, or will not be so happy! Therefore
he will always be about the declaring of this to others. But if ministers cannot use such an
expression to invite you to their fellowship, yet I beseech you, beloved in the Lord, let all
of us be here invited by the apostle to partake of that which will not grieve you to have fellows
and companions into, but rather add to your contentment.

Moreover, this may be represented to you, that ye are invited to the very communion with the
apostles. The lowest and meanest amongst you hath this high dignity in your offer, to be fellow
citizens with the saints, with the eminent pillars of the church,—the apostles.

It might be thought by the most part of Christians, who are more obscure, little known, and
almost despised in the world, that they might not have so near access into the court of this
great King. Some would think those who continued with him in his temptations, who waited on
his own person, and were made such glorious instruments of the renovation of the world, should
have some great preference to all others, and be admitted into the fellowship of the Father
and the Son, beyond others, even as many would think, that Christ’s mother and kinsmen in the
flesh, should have had prerogatives and privileges beyond all his followers. But O! the wonderful
mystery of the equal, free, and irrespective conveyance of this grace of the gospel in Christ
Jesus! Neither bond nor free, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision. There is one “common
salvation,” (Jude, ver 3,) as well as “common faith,” Tit. i. 4, and it is common to apostles,
to pastors, to people, to “as many as shall believe in his name,” so that the poorest and meanest
creature is not excluded from the highest privileges of apostles. We have that to glory into,
in which Paul gloried,—that is, the cross of Christ. We have the same access by the same Spirit,
unto the Father, we have the same Advocate to plead for us, the same blood to cry for us, the
same hope of the same inheritance. In a word, “we are baptized into one body,” and for the
essentials and chief substantiate of privilege and comfort, the Head equally respects all the
members. Yea, the apostles, though they had some peculiar gifts and privileges beyond others,
yet they were forbidden to rejoice in these, but rather in those which were common to them
with other saints. The height and depth of this drown all other differences.

Now, my beloved, what can be more said for our comfort? Would you be as happy as John, as blessed
as Paul? Would you think yourselves well if it were possible to be in as near relation and
communion with Christ as his mother and brethren? Truly, that is not only possible, but it
is holden out to you, and you are requested to embrace the offer, and come and share with them,
“He that heareth my words and doeth them, the same is my mother, and sister, and brother.”
You shall be as dear to him as his nearest relations, if you believe in him, and receive his
sayings in your heart. Do not then entertain jealous and suspicious thoughts, because you are
not like apostles or such holy men as are recorded in scripture. If you forsake not your own
mercy, you may have fellowship with them in that which they account their chiefest happiness.
There is no difference of quality or condition, no distance of other things can hinder your
communion with them. There are several sizes and growths of Christians, both in light and grace.
Some have extraordinary raptures and ecstacies of joy and sweetness, others attain not to that,
but are rather kept in attendance and waiting on God in his ways, but all of them have one
common salvation. As the highest have some fellowship with the lowest in his infirmities, so
the lowest have fellowship with the highest in his privileges. Such is the infinite goodness
of God, that which is absolutely necessary, and most important either to soul or body, is made
more universal, both in nature and grace, as the common light of the sun to all, and the Sun
of righteousness too, in an impartial way, shining on all them that come to him.

Sermon VI.

    1 John i. 3.—“And truly our fellowship is with the Father, and
    with his Son,” &c.

It was both the great wisdom and infinite goodness of God, that he did not only frame a creature
capable of society with others of his own kind, but that he fashioned him so as to be capable
of so high an elevation,—to have communion and fellowship with himself. It is less wonder of
angels, because they are pure incorporeal spirits, drawing towards a nearer likeness to his
nature, which similitude is the ground of communion, but that he would have one of the material
and visible creatures below, that for the one half is made of the dust of the earth, advanced
to this inconceivable height of privilege,—to have fellowship with him,—this is a greater wonder,
and for this end he breathed into man a spirit from heaven, that he might be capable of conformity
and communion with him who is the Father of spirits. Now, take this in the plainest apprehension
of it, and you cannot but conceive that this is both the honour and happiness of man. It is
honour and dignity, I say, because the nature of that consists in the applause and estimation
of those that are worthy, testified one way or another, and the highest degrees of it rise
according to the degree or dignity of the persons that esteem us, or give us their fellowship
and favour. Now, truly, according to this rule, the honour is incomparable, and the credit
riseth infinitely above all the airy and fancied dignities of men. For the footstool to be
elevated up to the throne! For the poor contemptible creature to be lifted up to the society
and friendship of the most high and glorious God, the only Fountain of all the hierarchies
of heaven, or degrees upon earth! So much as the distance is between God and us, so much proportionally
must the dignity rise to be advanced out of this low estate to fellowship with God. The distance
between creatures is not observable in regard of this, and yet poor creatures swell if either
they be lifted up a little above others or advanced to familiarity with those that are above
them. But what is it to pride ourselves in these things when we are altogether, higher and
lower, at one view, as grasshoppers in his sight? Therefore, man being in honour, and understanding
not wherein his true honour and dignity consists, he associates himself to beasts. Only the
soul that is aspiring to this communion with God, is extracted out of the dregs of beastly
mankind, and is elevated above mankind, and associated to blessed apostles, and holy angels,
and spirits made perfect. And that were but little, though it be an honour above regal or imperial
dignities, but it is infinitely heightened by this,—that their association is with God, the
blessed and holy Trinity.

Now herein consists man’s happiness too, for the soul being enlarged in its capacity and appetite
far beyond all visible things, it is never fully satiated, or put to rest and quiet, till it
be possessed with the chiefest and most universal good, that is, God. And then all the motions
of desire cease. Then the soul rests from its labours. Then there is a peace and eternal rest
proclaimed in the desires of the soul. 7. O what a poor short requiem do men sing to their
own hearts from other enjoyments! Oftentimes men’s hearts, whether dreaming or waking, speak
in this manner, Soul, take thy rest, but how ill grounded is that peace, and how false a rest,
daily experience in part witnesseth, and the last day will fully declare. But O how much better
and wiser were it for you to seek the favour and light of his countenance upon you, and to
be united to him who is the Fountain of life, so ye might truly, without hazard of such a sad
reprehension as that fool got, or grievous disappointment, say, Soul, take thy rest in God!

Man was advanced to this dignity and happiness, but he kept not his station, for the great
dragon falling down from that pinnacle of honour he had in heaven, drew down with him the third
part of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth, and thus man, who was in honour, is
now associated with, and made like to, beasts or devils. He is a stranger to God from the womb,
all the imaginations of his heart tend to distance from God. He is exiled and banished from
God’s presence, the type whereof was his being driven out of the garden. And yet he is not
long out, nor far away, when the infinite love of God moves an embassage to send after him
and to recall him. Many messengers are sent beforehand to prepare the way and to depose men’s
hearts to peace. Many prophecies were and fore intimations of that great embassage of love,
which at length appeared. For God sent His Son, his own Son, to take away the difference, and
make up the distance. And this is the thing that is declared unto us by these eye and ear witnesses,
to this end, that we may know how to return to that blessed society which we had forsaken to
our own eternal prejudice. Is man banished out of the paradise of God into the accursed earth?
Then the Son is sent out from his own palace and the paradise above, to come into this world,
and to save the world. Is there such a gulf between us and heaven? Christ hath put his own
body between to fill it up. Do the cherubim watch with flaming fire to keep us from life? Then
the Son hath shed his own blood in abundance to quench that fire, and so to pacify and compose
all in heaven and earth. Is there such odds and enmity between the families of heaven and earth?
He sent his Son the chief heir, and married him with our nature, and in that eternal marriage
of our nature with him, he hath buried in everlasting oblivion all the difference, and opened
a way for a nearer and dearer friendship with God than was before. And whence was it, I pray
you, that God dwelt among men, first, in a tabernacle, then in a fixed temple, even among the
rebellious sons of men, and that so many were admitted and advanced again to communion with
God? Abraham had the honour to be the friend of God,—O incomparable title, comprehending more
than king or emperor! Was it not all from this, the anticipating virtue of that uniting and
peace-making sacrifice? It was for his sake who was to come and in his flesh to lay a sure
foundation for eternal peace and friendship between God and man.

Now you see the ground of our restitution to that primitive fellowship with God, my earnest
desire is that ye would lay hold on this opportunity. Is such an high thing in your offer?
Yea, are you earnestly invited to it, by the Father and the Son? Then sure it might at the
first hearing beget some inward desire, and kindle up some holy ambition after such a happiness.
Before we know further what is in it, (for the very first sound of it imports some special
and incomparable privilege,) might not our hearts be inflamed, and ought not we to inquire
at our own hearts, and speak thus unto them: Have I lived so long a stranger to God, the fountain
of my life? Am I so far bewitched with the deceitful vanities of the world, as not to think
it incomparably better to rise up above all created things, to communicate with the Father
and the Son? And shall I go hence without God and without Christ, when fellowship with them
is daily, freely, and plentifully holden forth? I beseech you, consider where it must begin,
and what must be laid down for the foundation of this communion, even your union with Jesus
Christ the Mediator between God and man. And you cannot be one with him, but by forsaking yourselves,
and believing in him; and thence flows that constant abode and dwelling in him, which is the
mutual entertainment of Christ and a soul, after their meeting together; “Can two walk together
except they be agreed?” We are by nature enemies to God. Now certainly reconciliation and agreement
must intervene by the blood of the cross, before any friendly and familiar society be kept.
Let this then be your first study, and it is first declared in the gospel. Jesus Christ is
holden out as partaking with you in all your infirmities; he is represented as having fellowship
with us in our sins and curses, in our afflictions and crosses he hath fellowship in our nature,
to bear our sins and infirmities. Now, since he hath partaken in these, you are invited to
come and have fellowship with him in his gifts and graces, in the precious merits of his death
and suffering, in his rising again and returning to glory. And this is the exchange he makes
and declares in the gospel: I have taken your sins and curses, O come and take my graces, and
that which is purchased by my blood. Now this is the first beginning of a soul’s renewed fellowship
with God, and it is the foundation of all that is to come to embrace this offer, to accept
him cordially as he is represented, and to pacify and quiet our own hearts by faith in that
he hath done. And this being once laid down as the ground stone, the soul will grow up into
more communion with him.

To speak aright of this communion, would require more acquaintance with it than readily will
be found amongst us. But it is more easy to understand in what it is exercised and entertained,
than to bring up our hearts unto it. Certainly, it must neither be taken so low and wide, as
if it consisted all in these external duties and approaches of men unto God; for there is nothing
capable of communion with the Father of spirits, but a spirit. And, sure I am, the most part
of us removes them, and acts little that way. It is a lamentable thing, that men pretend to
please God with such vain empty shows, and bodily appearances, without any serious exercise
of their souls, and attention of their minds in divine worship. Neither yet must it be taken
so high, and made so narrow, as if it consisted only in those ravishments of the soul after
God, which are joined with extraordinary sweetness and joy, or in such rare pieces of access
and liberty. For though that be a part of it, yet is it neither universal to all God’s children,
nor yet constant in any. There may be some solid serious attendance on God in his ordinances,
which may have more true substantial life in it, and more of the marrow of Christianity in
it, though a soul should not be acquainted with these raptures, nor ever carried without the
line of an equal walking with God. Therefore that which I would exhort you to, is to acquaint
yourselves with Jesus Christ, and you shall find a new way opened in him, by which you may
boldly come to God, and having come to God in him, you are called to walk with him to entertain
that acquaintance that is made, till all the distance and estrangedness of your hearts be worn
out. And I know not any thing which is more apt either to beget or preserve this fellowship,
than the communication of your spirits often with him in prayer, and with his word in meditation.
And this is not to be discharged as a custom, but the love of God within, drawing the heart
willingly towards communication with him, and constraining to pour out your requests to him,
and wait on him, even though ye should find that sensible sweetness that sometimes is found.
It were an happy advancement in this fellowship, if converse with God, whether in prayer and
solemn retirements, or in meditation, or in our ordinary walking, were become the delight of
our hearts, at least that they might be carried that way towards the entertaining the thoughts
of his majesty, his glory, and grace, and goodness, and wisdom shining everywhere, as from
a natural instinct, even when we are not engaged with the present allurements of that sweetness
that sometimes accompanies it.

Sermon VII.

    1 John i. 3, 4.—“And truly our fellowship is with the Father, and
    with his Son Jesus Christ. And these things write we unto you,
    that your joy may be full.”

It was sin that did first break off that fellowship that was between God and man, and cut off
that blessed society in which the honour and happiness of man consisted. But that fundamental
bond being loosed, it hath likewise untied all the links of society of men among themselves,
and made such a general dispersion and dissipation of mankind, that they are almost like wild
beasts, ranging up and down, and in this wilder than beasts, that they devour one another,
which beasts do not in their own kind, and they are like fishes of the sea, without rule and
government. Though there be some remnants of a sociable inclination in all men, that shows
itself in their combinings in societies, and erecting governments, yet generally that which
is the true bond and ligament of men, which alone can truly knit them together, is broken,—that
is, love, the love of God and our neighbours. And therefore, notwithstanding of all the means
used to reduce, and to contain mankind in order and harmony by government, yet there is nothing
but continual rents, distractions, dissipations, divisions, and dissolutions in commonwealths
amongst themselves and between nations, so that all men may be represented as lions, tigers,
wolves, serpents, and such like unsociable creatures, till the gospel come to tame them and
subdue them, as it is often holden out in the prophets, Isa. ii. 4, xi. 6-8, lxv. 25.

Now indeed, you have here the express end and purpose of the gospel, to make up these two great
breaches in the creature, between God and men, and between men and men. It is a gospel of peace.
Wherever it takes hold of men’s spirits, it reduceth all to a peaceable temper, joins them
to God, and one to another. For the very sum and substance of it is the love of God to mankind,
and proposed for this end, to engage the love of man again, and love is the glue, the cement
that alone will conjoin hearts unto this fellowship. It is a strange thing, and much to be
lamented, that Christendom should be a field of blood, an aceldama, beyond other places of
the world, that where the gospel is pretended to be received, that men have so far put off
even humanity, as thus to bite and devour one another. Certainly it is, because where it is
preached, it is not believed. Therefore, sin taketh occasion by it to become the more sinful.
Always let us take heed to this, that it is the great purpose and grand design of the gospel
preached to us, to restore us to a blessed society and fellowship with the Father, and withal,
to a sweet fellowship among ourselves, for both you see are here.

We are called to fellowship with the Father, and what is that but to have the Father of our
Lord Jesus Christ thy Father, and thou to be his son by adoption of grace? “I go,” saith Christ,
“to your Father and my Father, and to your God and my God,” John xx. 17. O what a sweet complication
and interchange of relations!

“I will be your God, and ye shall be my people.” Here is the epitome of all happiness and felicity.
In this word all is enclosed, and without this nothing is to be found that deserves the desires
of an immortal spirit. For hence it follows, that a soul is filled with the all fulness of
God (Eph. iii. 19), for that is made over to thee who believest the gospel, and thou hast as
real a right and title to it as men have to their father’s inheritance. Then to have fellowship
with his Son Jesus Christ is another branch of this dignity, and this is that which introduceth
the other. Christ is the middle person, the Mediator between God and man, given for this end,—to
recover men from their woeful dispersion and separation from God, and reduce them again to
that blessed society. And, therefore, our acquaintance, as it were, first begins with him,
and by him we are led to the Father. No man can come to the Father but by the Son, therefore,
if you have his friendship, you have done the business, for he and his Father are one.

Now this fellowship, to branch it forth more particularly, is either real or personal. Real,
I mean κοι ωτια bonorum, a communion of all good things, a communion with him in his nature,
offices, and benefits,—and this must be laid down as the foundation stone of this fellowship.
He came near us, to partake of flesh and blood with us, that we might have a way, a new and
living way, consecrated,—even the vail of his flesh, to come to God by, for certainly this
gives boldness to a soul to draw near to God with some expectation of success and acceptation,
when it is seriously considered that our nature is so nearly conjoined already to God. By this
step a soul climbs up to the majesty of God, and by means of this we become partakers of the
divine nature, as God of human nature, 2 Pet. i. 4. So by the same degrees we ascend to God,
that God hath descended to us. He drew near us by our nature, and we, by the intervention of
that same, ascend to him, and receive his image and stamp on our souls for the Lord did stamp
his own image upon Christ’s human nature to make it a pattern to us, and to represent to us,
as in a visible symbol and pledge, what impression he would put upon us. Then we have fellowship
with him in his offices. I need not branch them out severally. You know what he was anointed
for,—to be a Priest, to offer sacrifice, and to reconcile us to God, and to make intercession
for us,—to be a King, to rule us by his word and Spirit, and defend us against our enemies,—to
be a Prophet, to reveal the will of God to us, and instruct us in the same. Here is a large
field of fellowship. We have admittance, by faith in Jesus Christ, to the real advantage and
benefit of all these. There is nothing in them but it relates to us, and redounds to us. The
living virtue of that sacrifice is as fresh and recent this day, to send up a savour of rest
to heaven and to pacify a troubled conscience, as the first day it was offered. That perfect
sacrifice is as available to thy soul as if thou hadst offered it thyself, and this day ye
have the benefit of his prayers in heaven. We partake of the strong cries and tears in the
days of his flesh, and of his intercession since, more than of our own supplications. What
shall I say? Ye have one to teach you all things that are needful for you, one to subdue your
sins under you, and, by virtue of fellowship with Jesus Christ in these offices there is something
derived from it, and communicated to us by it, that we should be kings and priests to God our
Father, kings, to rule over our own spirits and lusts in as far as grace reigns in us to eternal
life, and that is truly an heroic royal spirit that overcomes himself and the world, and priests,
to offer unto God continually the sacrifice of prayer and praise (1 Pet. ii. 5, 9), which are
sweet-smelling and pleasant in his sight. Yea, we should offer up our own bodies as a reasonable
service, Rom. xii. 1, and this is a holy and living sacrifice, when we dedicate and consecrate
all our faculties, members, and abilities to his will and service, and do not spare to kill
our lusts, which are his and our enemies.

Let us sum up all in this,—whatsoever grace or gift is in Christ Jesus, whatsoever pre-eminence
he hath above angels and men, whatsoever he purchased, he purchased by his obedient life and
patience in death. There is nothing of all that but the soul may be admitted to fellowship
in it, by its union with him by faith. Have him, and have all that he hath. Faith makes him
yours, and all that he hath is a consequential appendix to himself. The word of the gospel
offers him freely to you, with all his benefits, interests, and advantages. O that our hearts
may be induced to open to him!

Now being thus united to Jesus Christ, that which I would persuade next to is a personal communion,
that is, a suitable entertainment of him, a conjunction of your soul to him by love, and a
conspiracy of all your endeavours henceforth to please him. It is certain, that true friendship
is founded on a conjunction and harmony of souls by affection, by which they cease to be two,
and become in a manner one; for love makes a kind of transport of the soul into another, and
then all particular and proper interests are drowned in oblivion,—no more mine and thine, but
he makes an interchange, mine thine, and thine mine, my heart thine, and thy honour mine. Now,
certain it is, that in this God hath given us a rare pattern, and leads the way; for he declares
his love to the world in the rarest effects of it, which give the clearest demonstrations possible,—“God
so loved the world that he sent his Son.” And you have the most infallible argument of the
Son’s love,—“Greater love hath no man than this, to lay down his life for his friends,”—but
he for his enemies. Now, then, you see how the heart of God and his Son Jesus Christ is fixed
from everlasting on the sons of men, so unalterably, and so fully set towards them, that it
hath transported the Son out of his own glory, and brought him down in the state of a servant.
But it is not yet known what particular persons are thus fixed upon, until that everlasting
love break out from underground, in the engagement of thy soul’s love to him, and till he have
fastened this chain, and set this seal on thy heart, which makes thee impatient to want him.
Thou knowest not the seal that was on his heart from eternity. But now the love of a believer
being the result of his love,—this is it that is the source and spring of constant communion,
and it vents itself in converse with God, and daily entertainment of him in our spirits and
ways. There is a keeping of company with him in prayer and meditation, and all the ordinances.
There is a communication and familiar conference of the heart with him, either in thinking
on him or pouring out our requests to him. There is a mutual and daily intercourse and correspondence
of that soul with God, in answering his word by obedience, in praying to him, and receiving
answers from him, and then returning answer again with a letter of thanks and praise, as it
were. These are the ways to increase that love of God, and kindle it up to a higher flame,
and it being thus increased, it gathers in all the endeavours and abilities of the soul, and
sets all on fire, as a sweet smelling sacrifice to please him. It is henceforth the great study
of the soul to remove all things that are offensive to him, for the entertaining of sin, his
enemy, is most inconsistent with this true fellowship and friendship. “If I regard iniquity
in my heart, the Lord will not hear me,” Psal. lxvi. 18. This will mar that sweet correspondence
in prayer and praise, for it is a breach of peace and covenant to regard and maintain his enemies.
Therefore the soul that loves God will study to compose itself in all things to his good pleasure,
as well as his love, that is strong as death, puts him upon a careful watching, to do all things
for our profit, and so this takes in our whole carriage and walking, in religious approaches,
or in common businesses, to have this as our great design—conversing with God and walking to
all well pleasing.

Now, if we were once enrolled in this blessed fellowship with the Father and the Son then it
follows, as a fruit and result of this, that we should have fellowship one with another. And
truly the more unity with God, the more unity among ourselves: for he is the uniting, cementing
principle, he is the centre of all Christians, and as lines, the farther they are from the
centre, the farther distant they are from one another, so the distance and elongation of souls
from God sets them at further distance amongst themselves. The nearer we come every one to
Jesus Christ, the nearer we join in affection one to another, and this is imported in that
of Christ’s prayer, “That they may be one in us,” John xvii. 21, 22. No unity but in that one
Lord, and no perfect unity but in a perfect union with him. I would exhort to study this more,—to
have fellowship one with another, as members of the same body, by sympathy, by mutual helping
one another in spiritual and temporal things. Even amongst Christians that live obscurely in
a city, or in a village, there is not that harmonious agreement and consent of hearts, that
contention and plea of love, of gentleness and forbearance, who shall exercise most of that,
but there are many jealousies, heart burnings, grudgings, strifes, evil speakings, &c., to
the stumbling of others, and the weakening of yourselves, which certainly argue that ye are
much carnal, and walk as men, and that the love of God and fellowship with him is waxed cold,
and is languished and dead, &c.

Sermon VIII.

    1 John i. 4.—“And these things write we unto you, that your joy
    may be full.”

All motions tend to rest and quietness. We see it daily in the motions below, and we believe
it also of the circular revolutions of the heavens above, that there is a day coming in which
they shall cease, as having performed all they were appointed for. And as it is in things natural,
so it is in things rational in a more eminent way. Their desires, affections, and actions,
which are the motions and stretches of the soul towards that it desires and apprehends as good,
tend of their own nature, and are directed by the very intention of the soul to some rest and
tranquillity, some joy and contentation of spirit. If other things that have no knowledge have
their centre of rest, how much more must man, who is an understanding creature, have it by
the ordination and appointment of God! But there is this wide difference in the point of capacity
of happiness between man and other creatures, that they, whatsoever excellent virtues or properties
they have, yet know them not themselves, and so can neither enjoy what excellency themselves
have, nor have use of what is in others. For to what purpose is it to shine forth, if there
be no eye to see? What advantage hath the rose in its fragrancy, if it cannot smell itself?
That which is not perceived, is as if it were not. And therefore it is an evident testimony,
that all these visible things were created, not for themselves, but for man’s sake, who knows
them, can use them, and enjoy them. Here is, then, the peculiar capacity that God hath given
to man,—to discern and know what he seeks, what he hath, and possesses, that so he may be able
to enjoy it, or use it, according to the nature of it. This is a great point of God’s image
and conformity with him, whose infinite blessedness and joy riseth from that perfect comprehension
and intuitive beholding of himself, and his own incomprehensible riches. So then, man’s happiness
or misery must depend upon this,—both what the soul fixeth upon, and what it apprehendeth to
be in it. For if that eternal and universal good, the all-fulness of God, be the centre of
the soul’s desires and endeavours, and there be apprehended and discovered in God that infinite
excellency and variety of delights which nothing else can afford so much as a shadow of, then
there cannot but result from such a conjunction of the soul’s apprehension, suitable to the
fulness of God, and of the excellency and goodness of God, suitable to the desires of the soul,
such a rest and tranquillity, such joy and satisfaction, as cannot choose but make the soul
infinitely happier than the enjoyment of any other thing could do.

This being the thing, then, which all men’s desires naturally tend unto, this tranquillity
and perfect satisfaction of the heart being that which carries all men’s hearts after it, and
that which men seek for itself, and which they seek in all other things, the great misery of
man is, that he mistakes the way to it, and seeks it where it is not to be found. The generality
of men are so far degenerated, both from the impression of a divine majesty, and the sense
of an immortal being within themselves, that they imagine to content and ease their own hearts
in these outward, inconstant, perishing things, and so their life is spent in catching at shadows,
in feeding on the wind, in labouring in the fire. There is nothing so plentifully satisfies
our expectations as can quit the cost, and recompense the expense of our labour, toil, grief,
and travail about it. There is nothing therefore but a continual, restless agitation of the
heart from one thing to another, and that in a round, circling about, from one thing that now
displeases or disappoints to things that were formerly loathed, as a sick man turns him from
one side to another, or changes beds often, and at length returns, expecting to find some ease
where he lay at first. And it may be judged that all circular motions are eternal, and so they
can never be supposed to attain their end,—that is, rest and tranquillity. Therefore a soul
thus carried in a round, by the vain imaginations of his heart, is likely never to settle and
find solid rest and peace. Nay, how is it possible that they can give that tranquillity and
contentation to the heart and soul of man, that are so utterly in their natures disproportioned
to it, both because they are only suited to the senses, and likewise for that they are changeable?
Now the soul is framed with a higher capacity, and can no more be satiated with visible things,
than a man that is hungry can be satisfied with gold; and besides, it is immortal, and must
have something to survive all the changes of time, and therefore is likely to rest nowhere
but in that which hath eternal stability. Now, though these things cannot truly fill the heart,
yet they swell the belly, like the east wind, or like the prodigal’s husks, fill it with wind,
which causeth many torments and distempers in the soul; and though they cannot give ease, yet
they may be as thorns to prick and pierce a man through with many sorrows, as our Saviour speaks.
So that there is no more wisdom or gain in this, than in gathering an armful of thorns, and
enclosing and pressing hard unto them,—the more hardly and strongly we grip them, the more
grievously they pierce us; or as if a man would flee into a hedge of thorns in a tempest,—the
further he thrusts into it, he is the worse pricked: and that which he is fallen into is worse
than that he fleeth from. I am sure all your experiences give a harmonious testimony to this,
that there is no solid, permanent, constant, and equable heart-joy and contentation in all
the fancied and imaginary felicities that this world adores. There is nothing of these things,
that is not lesser, and lower in actual possession, nor in the first apprehension of them afar
off. Nothing in them answers either our desires or expectations; and therefore, instead of
peace and tranquillity, they breed more inward torment and disquiet, because of that necessary
and inevitable disappointment that attends them. Therefore the apostle passeth all these things
in silence, when he is to write of purpose, to give a fulness of joy; for he knows that in
them there is neither that joy, nor that fulness of joy he would wish for from them; but it
is other things he writes for this end.

Now, indeed, there hath been some wiser than others, that have their apprehension far above
the rest of mankind, and have laboured to frame some rules and precepts to lead man into this
true rest and tranquillity. And truly, in this they have done much to discover the vanity and
madness of the common practice of men, and to draw man from sensible and outward things, to
things invisible and spiritual. Yet there is a defectiveness in all the rules that natural
reason can reach unto. There is some crookedness withal adheres to them, which shows our departure
from our original. There are many excellent discourses of morality in heathen writings, which
may be very subservient to a Christian, and useful to the composing and settling of his mind,
amidst all the fluctuations and uncertainties of this world. They may come well in as subsidies
and guards to a Christian’s heart, to preserve that peace and joy it hath from God, and keep
out the ordinary tumultuous passions that disturb the most part of men. But here is the lamentable
failing, that while they call a man off things without, as adventitious, they lead him but
into his own spirit within, as if he could there find that rest in the very enjoyment of his
poor, miserable, wretched self. But Christ Jesus calls us into our own spirits, not to dwell
there. For O what a loathsome and irksome habitation is a defiled heart and a guilty conscience!
But rather, that finding nothing of that joy and refreshment within, we may then freely and
fully forsake ourselves, as well as the world without, and transport into God in Christ, the
only habitation of joy and delight, that being filled with anguish from the world, and from
ourselves, we may more willingly divorce from both, and agree to join unto Jesus Christ, and
to embrace him in our hearts, who is the only Fountain of life and joy, who had no other errand
and business from heaven, but to repair man’s joy,—as grievous a breach as any in the creation,—a
thing as much missed and sought after as any thing, yea, sought after in all things that are
sought. John xv. 11. “These things I have spoken to you, that your joy may be full.” Therefore
the apostle propounds this as the end of his writing on this subject,—the word of life; these
things write I “that your joy may be full;” and the way to attain this fulness of joy, he expressed
in the former verse,—by fellowship with the Father and the Son.

That which makes all other things disproportioned to the soul of man, to give it this joy,
is the extreme unsuitableness between them. The soul hath an infinite capacity, and besides,
an immortality of endurance, but they are condemned under impotency to supply that infinite
void and inconstancy, by which they must needs perish, and leave the soul without all comfort,
and with more anxiety. But in those things written here we find all things suited and proportioned
to the very great exigence of the soul.   There is a suitableness in them, because of their
spiritual nature, whereby they may close immediately with thy spirit.    Other things are material
and corporeal, and what union, what fellowship can a spirit be supposed to have with them?
They are extrinsic, advenient things, that never come to a nearer union with thy soul; and
though they could, they would debase thy soul, and not exalt it, because of a baser inferior
nature.  But these things, Jesus Christ, eternal life in him, these precious promises of the
gospel, these spiritual privileges of Son-ship, &c., these are of a more divine nature, and
by meditation and faith souls come to close with them.   These are inward things more near
the soul that believes, than himself is to himself; and so he may always carry them about in
his heart, which may be a spring of everlasting joy. This no man can take from him. John xvi.
22. For the ground and fountain is inward, seated without the reach of all these vicissitudes
and changes. Then, as they have a suitableness, so they have a fulness in them, to create fulness
of joy.  They are cordials to the heart, things that are in their own nature refreshing to
the soul, and apt to beget heart-joy. Other things are not suitable to this, to produce any
such inward soul-complacency. The things that are from without reach not so deep as the heart;
they make their impressions rather on the outward senses, to tickle and please them, or the
countenance, to put some pleasing shape upon it.   But the wise man pronounceth all those joys
that arise from external things to be superficial, only skin-deep. “In the midst of laughter
the heart is sorrowful, and the end of that mirth is heaviness,” Prov. xiv. 13. Extrema gaudii
luctus occupat.(235) There is no solid recreation to the soul in its retired thoughts, from
all the delights of the senses; it is but like the pleasure of the itch, which no man esteems
pleasure. But besides, as the things of the gospel affect the heart and soul by bringing soul-mercies
and treasures, as forgiveness of sin, hope of heaven, &c., so there is a fulness in them, which
may answerably fill all the corners of the heart with joy. There is an unexhaustedness in these
things, an universality in Christ;—all in all, all the treasures of wisdom are in him; and
may not this cause surely an high spring-tide of joy? The heart is eased upon the lowest clear
apprehension of Christ and the gospel. It gives a heart-serenity and calmness to a troubled
soul, that nothing else could do. Yet to make up the fulness of joy, as well as the solidity
of it, to extend the measure of it, as well as to beget the true quality of it, it is requisite
that not only there be a fulness in the object,—that is, full, superabundant, ample matter
of rejoicing; but there must be a kind of fulness in the apprehension. It must be represented
fully as it is, and the clouds of unbelief scattered; and then indeed, upon the full aspect
of the gospel, and Christ in it, there is a fulness of joy that flows into the soul, as the
sea is filled upon the full aspect of the moon. O that we could believe this, that there is
a fulness of joy here, and nowhere else! Certainly, this alone being pondered and sunk into
our hearts, would be a powerful reformer in us, and among us. How would it carry men’s hearts
to a disgracing and despising all the things that are held in admiration by men! How would
it turn the channel of men’s judgments, opinions, affections, and conversations! For certainly,
whithersoever the tide of joy flows, thither the heart is carried, and this it is that all
men are seeking, though they take many contrary and divers ways, as their own fancy leads them.
Now, if once this were established in thy soul, that here is that truth and fulness of joy,
which elsewhere is ignorantly and vainly sought, would it not divert thy desires, and turn
the current of thy affections and endeavours, to fall into this ocean of gladness and delight?
Elsewhere there is neither true joy nor full joy,—nec verum nec plenum gaudium.  There is no
verity in it; it is but an external garb and shadow, and there is no plenty or fulness in it.
It fills not the hand of the reaper, it satisfieth not his very hunger. But here, when a soul
is possessed with Christ by faith, and dwelleth in God by love, there is both reality and plenty.
All the dimensions of the heart may be filled up. Some allegorize upon the triangular composition
of man’s heart, that no orbicular thing such as this world can fill it exactly without vacuity,
but only the blessed and holy Trinity.(236) Truly we may conceive, this fulness of joy, excluding
all the latent griefs of the heart and filling up all the vacant corners doth flow from that
blessed fellowship of the Father and the Son. Now, though these two be only mentioned yet the
Holy Ghost must not be excluded, for the apostolic prayer doth attribute chiefly our fellowship
with God to the Spirit, so that it is the Spirit unites our hearts, and associates them to
God, and that seems to correspond between him and us. So then there is such a fellowship with
the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, that leaves no vacuity in the heart, that fills all the dimensions
and corners of it with peace and joy.

But add unto this in the third place that these things have not only a fulness, but, withal
a durableness, not only plenty, but besides, eternity and perpetuity, to correspond to the
immortality of the soul.  And this, certainly, is a great congruity, and so makes up much beauty
and harmony, for what more incongruous and unsuitable than for an immortal spirit to spend
itself, and give up itself to that which is not which must leave it, which is mortal, and fading
in its own nature, without which it must continue infinitely longer than it can enjoy it? And
what more comely than for an immortal thing to associate with eternal things, and to derive
its joy from an eternal spring?  For, when all things visible are done away, and things mortal
abolished, then its joy none can take from it, because it takes its joy from that which must
survive all these changes. Suppose any thing could for the present give a fulness of joy, and
absolute content to the heart, yet, if we imagine that that thing may be separated and disjoined
from the heart, and cease to be, certainly the very expectation of such an eternal separation
would almost extinguish all the joy, and make it dry up of the fulness, for, may a soul think,
what shall I do for ever when this well dries? Whence shall I draw water of joy? Out of what
well? But now, that fear is removed, and the soul needs not lose its sweetness of the present
enjoyment of God through anxious foresight of the future, because he may know that the perfect
fulness that shall never ebb is but coming, and the sun is but ascending yet towards the meridian,
from whence he shall never go down, but stand fixed, to be the eternal wonder and delight of
angels and men.

Now, though it be true that Christians here have neither that plenty nor that perpetuity of
this joy that the object of it gives ground for, though their hearts be often filled with griefs
and sorrows—partly from outward, partly from inward evils and afflictions,—yet, certainly,
this ariseth but from the dark apprehension, dim belief, and slight consideration of those
things that Christ spoke, and his apostles wrote unto us. We might, no question, keep our hearts
in more peace and tranquillity, in all the commotions of the times or alterations in ourselves,
if we did more steadfastly believe the gospel and keep more constant fellowship with God. But,
however it be, there is radically a fulness of joy in every believer’s heart. That seed is
sown that shall one day be ripe of fulness of joy, it is always lying at the root, and reserved
for them. O let us lay these things to heart, which, being laid to heart, and laid up in the
heart, will fill it with this sweet fragrant perfume of peace and joy. They are written for
this end, let us hear them for this end too, that our joy may be full. It is true, indeed,
that this fulness of joy suits only the life to come, when the vessel is both enlarged and
strengthened to contain it. Things that have strong spirits in them must have strong new bottles
such as our crazy mortal bodies are not, therefore the Lord hath reserved the just fulness,
the overflowings of this joy, for the time that the soul shall be purified from all sin, and
the body delivered from all corruption. Because that sin lurks in many corners of the heart
now, therefore this joy cannot fill up the heart and all the vacuities of it, for it is of
so pure and heavenly a nature that it will not compound and intermingle with sin or sinful
lusts. But when nothing of that remains in the heart then it flows in apace, and leaves no
corner of the heart unsatisfied and unsupplied. I would have you, who get some tastes of this
joy and peace by the way, not disquieted and troubled, because it abides not to be ordinary
food.  If you be set down again to your ordinary spare diet of manna in the wilderness and
have not these first fruits and grapes of Canaan sent to you, think it not strange, for the
fulness which you seek you are not capable of here, but you shall be capable of it hereafter.
You ought, with patience, to wait for that day when your joy shall be full.  As Christ is full,
full measure heaped up and running over, will he mete out unto you then, and this shall be
without the fear of any ebb or diminution of it for all eternity.  Neither shall this fulness,
and constant fulness, cloy the soul, or breed any satiety in it. There is fulness of joy without
surfeit, without satiety, that which they have they shall always desire, and that which they
desire they shall always have, everlasting desire and everlasting delight being married together
in their fulness.  But yet so much is attainable here as may truly be called fulness in regard
of the world.  The fulness of joy that all the pleasures of this earth can afford is but scarcity
and want to the inward fulness of joy and contentation the poorest believers may have in God,
reconciled in Christ.  That which the wise man gives as the character of all earthly joy suits
well, “I said of laughter, It is mad, and of mirth, what doeth it?”  Eccl. ii. 2.  Truly it
cannot be supposed to be more real than that which is the ground and spring of it.  It must
be a perfunctorious,(237) superficial, and empty joy that is derived and distilled from such
vanities.  Nay, there is a madness in it besides, for men’s apprehensions to swell so excessively
towards poor, narrow, and limited things.  It is a monster in reason to put such a value upon
nothing, and make ourselves glad upon our own dreams and fancies.  There is such a manifest
abuse and violation of reason in it, that it can be supposed to proceed from nothing but a
distemper in men’s hearts. But, besides this, there are two other characters of it given (Prov.
xiv. 13.), “Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of that mirth is heaviness.”
There is no pure earthly joy, for it hath always a mixture of grief and sadness in the inward
retired closet of the heart.  It is of such deadness and inefficacy that it drives not out
of the heart all discontentments and anxieties, but if the most jovial man, that seems to be
transported with his delights would but retire within and examine his own conscience, he would
find those delights have but little power to affect his heart.  He would find terrible and
dreadful representations there, that his joys may well for a time darken them, but cannot drive
them away.  And then it is the very natural law and fatal necessity that grief follows those
joys at the heels, yea, is  perpetually attending them, to come in their place.  God hath so
conjoined them together, and so disposed them, that men’s joy shall be mingled with grief,
but their grief is pure and unmixed, and that he who draws up joy to him from the creatures,
must draw grief and vexation in that same chain, inseparably annexed to it by the wise ordination
of God.

But there are joys of the Holy Ghost arising from the intimation and apprehension of the gospel,
from the consideration of the grace and goodness of God manifested in it and the experience
of that in the soul, which are of another stamp and nature.  These, indeed, affect the heart,
and give the answer of a good conscience, in the blood of Christ, which is a continual feast.
These drive out the bitter and dreadful apprehensions of sin and wrath.  These sweeten and
refresh the soul in all worldly afflictions and griefs.  The heart of man knoweth his own bitterness,
and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy, Prov. xiv. 10.  Indeed, the torments and
perplexities of a troubled soul are better felt by itself than known by others, and so are
the joys of that heart that apprehends Jesus Christ and peace purchased in him.  They are such
as no man that is a stranger to such things in his experience can apprehend.  It is a joy unspeakable.
O what unspeakable content gives it to the heart! And truly if you did not interpose the clouds
of unbelief and sin between you and his shining countenance, there needed not be so often an
eclipse in the joys of believers.  Yet the day is coming that ye shall see him fully as he
is, and nothing be interposed between you and him, and then your joy shall be full &c.

Sermon IX.

    1 John i. 5.—“This then is the message which we have heard of him,
    and declare unto you, that God is light,” &c.

The great design of the gospel is to make up the breach of man’s joy, and open up the way to
the fulness of it, and therefore it is the good news and glad tidings of great joy, the only
best message that ever came to the world. Now it shows unto us the channel that this river
of gladness and joy runs into, it discovers what is the way of the conveyance of it to the
soul, and what are the banks it runs between, and that is fellowship with the Father and with
the Son.  In this channel that river of delight runs,—between the banks of the love of God
to us, and our love to him. Herein a soul is happy, and accounts itself happy, and truly, in
so much do we profit by the word, and answer the design of the gospel, by how much we estimate
our happiness from this alone from the communication of God to us. Whensoever the gospel takes
hold of your hearts, it will undoubtedly frame them to this,—to a measuring of all blessedness
from God alone. And this will carry the heart to an undervaluing of all other things, as being
too low and unworthy for this end, and so to a forsaking of every thing for the closer enjoyment
of God.  I fear many believers are little acquainted with this joy, because they draw not their
joy singly out of the pure fountain of delight, but turn aside to other external comforts,
and drown their souls in them.  Now, indeed, these two cannot well consist together.  If we
take in any thing else to make up our happiness and comfort, so much we lose of God, and that
which is truly spiritual, and therefore our hearts would be more purified from carnal delights,
if we would have experience of this joy, we must hang only upon his countenance and company,
else we lose the sweetness of it.

Now the apostle prosecutes this further, to discover what conformity must be between them that
should keep this fellowship, and what likeness of nature and qualities is necessary for them
who would be happy in God’s society.  “This is the message we have heard,” saith he, “and which
we declare unto you, that God is light,” &c.  Take this jointly with that which went before,
“this we declare, that ye may have fellowship with the Father and the Son.”  And to the end
this fellowship may hold and yield you fulness of joy, it is necessary that the nature of God
be laid down as the pattern to which ye must be conformed,—“God is light,” and therefore you
must be light too, if ye would have fellowship with that pure light. Now this, I say, is the
full message of the gospel, that which was sent down from heaven with the Son of God, the messenger
of the covenant, and which the apostles heard from him.  Indeed the very manner of the proposal
of these things stirs up our hearts to attention, and makes us more serious than commonly we
are.  That there is one, and such an one sent from heaven, with such an embassage as this is,
to invite us to society with God again, one whose interest lies in this, to make us happy,
and this he declares unto us, that he hath no other design but to fulfil our joy.  O how powerful
might this be on our hearts to conquer them, to make them willingly hearken to him!  Any message
that comes from heaven should be received with great reverence and respect of mortal men, because
it comes from the court and palace of the great King.  But when this is the substance of it,
to make us happy in himself, to advance us to this incomparable dignity of society with himself,
in which society there is a fulness of joy,—then how should we receive it with open hearts,
and entertain it gladly!  If we could take it always thus as a message from heaven, and look
upon it and hear it in that notion, I think the fruit would be incomparably greater, for what
is it that makes it dead and ineffectual in men’s hearts, but that the apprehension of it degenerates
and falls down from God to creatures, because it is not taken so as his word, carrying the
stamp of his divine authority? We bring it forth, not as a message from him, but as from ourselves,
and you receive it, not as from him, but from us, and thus it is adulterated and corrupted
on both hands.  My beloved, let us jointly mind this, that whatsoever we have to declare is
a message from God to mortal men; and, therefore, let us so compose ourselves in his sight
as if he were speaking to us. The conscience of a very heathen was awaked when Ehud told him
he had a message from God to him. Eglon arose out of his seat, that he might hear it reverently,
(Judg. iii. 20.) though it was a bloody message, as it proved in the event. Yet so much the
common dictates of reason might teach you, that ye should arise and compose yourselves to reverend
and awful attention to what the Lord God will speak. But when, moreover, we know that the sum
of the message is to make us blessed, and raise us up to communion with him in his joy and
happiness we are not only called to reverence, as to God, but to ardent affection and desire,
as to him who by all means seeks our happiness. O how happy were he that could first hear and
receive this message from him, and then declare it to others! But, however, though we should
fail in that, this doth not change either the authority or nature of the message itself; and
therefore, if men should be so far destitute of God as not to bring it from him immediately,
yet do not you forsake your own mercy too, but receive it as that which is come forth from
God, receive it for itself, as carrying in its bosom a fulness of joy to you, and receive it
for his sake who moved this embassage first after sinners, and his sake who carried it to sinners,
that is, for the Father and the Son, to whose fellowship you are here invited. Let us then
hear the message.

“This then is the message, that God is light,” &c. The ground of communion of persons is their
union in nature, or likeness one to another. There is some general society between all mankind,
as being conjoined in one common nature; but the contracting of that in narrower bounds of
affinity and consanguinity doth enlarge the affection the more. You see it is natural for those
who are joined by such relations of blood one to another, to love one another more than others
out of these bonds. But true friendship draws the circle yet narrower, and contracts the love
that is scattered abroad to mankind in a strange channel, to run towards one, or a few, and
the foundation of this is some peculiar and particular similitude and likeness in manners and
sympathy of disposition, which makes the souls of men to melt one into another, after some
converse and acquaintance together. This is the bond that knits this near society, some conformity
necessarily presupposed to communion and fellowship. Now, that which holds so in the communion
of man with man, must be much more needful in man’s communion with God, for all the societies,
combinations, and conjunctions of the creatures, are but shadows of this higher communication
of the spirit of man with God the Father of spirits. And, indeed, we may find some rude draughts
and resemblances of this divine society, and of the rule according to which it must he modelled,
in all the friendly or near conjunctions of creatures; for every thing is best preserved and
agreeth best with things of its own nature. See the disposition of the parts of the world.
Things contiguous and nearest other are also likest in nature one to another. So it is among
men. The several agreements and symbolizings of men’s spirits in different qualities and tempers,
make several sorts of men, and part them into so many companies: Pares paribus congregantur.
Simile simili gaudet.(238)

Now, my beloved, this same supernatural and divine society that we speak of must be constituted
according to this fundamental rule, that is, it is necessary, to the end that God and man may
have fellowship together, that they come nearer in likeness one to another. Now for God, you
know he cannot be liker us, for he is unchangeably holy and good. That were most absurd to
bring down his Majesty to partake of our wretched infirmities of sin and darkness. Indeed in
this he hath come as far as his own nature and our good would permit, to communicate in our
nature, and all the sinless infirmities of it. It is impossible, then, that he should make
up the distance by any change of himself, but we must be changed, and some way raised up to
partake of the purity of his nature, and be transformed into some likeness to him, and then
is the foundation  of society and fellowship laid down. This is the apostle’s meaning, in declaring
to us what God is that according to that pattern, and in that glass we may see what to conform
ourselves to, and may have a particular determination of the great qualification of those who
pretend to fellowship with God. “God is light and in him is no darkness.” Now, take the just
opposition—man is darkness and in him is no light. Now, what communion then can light have
with darkness? Either the light must become darkness, or the darkness become light. Either
the light must leave its glorious purity and forsake its nature—which cannot be admitted—or
else the darkness of men’s souls must be wiped off, and abolished by the brightness of God’s
light. And then there may be a communion between the primitive light and the derivative light,
between the original light and that which flows out from the original. But take darkness remaining
darkness, and light remaining light, and they cannot compone(239) together, for the first great
separation that was made in the world was between light and darkness. And so it is impossible
for men that live in the darkness of their minds, in ignorance, and in the darkness of sinful
lusts, that they can have any fellowship with God, who is a fountain of pure light and undefiled
sanctity. “What hast thou to do to take my covenant in thy mouth,” &c, and this God saith to
the wicked. Can darkness comprehend the light, or apprehend it? Or can those that are blind
form any lively notion of light, to the instruction and persuasion of others? Truly, no more
can we conceive or speak of God, who is that pure light, than a blind man can discourse on
colours, or a deaf man on sounds. “Who is blind as the Lord’s servant?” And therefore who are
more unmeet to declare this message of light? What reverence and godly fear ought this to be
declared withal, when mortal man speaks of the eternal God unto mortal men? What composure
of spirit should be in us? What trembling and adoration? For, at our best, we can but declare
our own ignorance, and the furthest attainment in this knowledge is but a further discovery
of man’s darkness. We have three ways of creeping towards that glorious light of God. First,
his own works are like some visible appearances of that invisible and incomprehensible God,
and in these we know him, but not what he is in himself. Consider how dark and dull we are
in piercing into the hidden natures of things, even below us, as beasts and plants. We behold
some effects flow from them, but from what principle these do flow, that we know not. How much
less can we apprehend any thing suitable of the divine Majesty, that is infinitely above us,
from these wonderful and glorious works of his power and wisdom! Man is endowed with wisdom
to do some excellent works of art, as planting, grafting, building, painting, weaving, and
such like. But the beasts that are below us cannot apprehend from these works what the nature
of man is. Now is there not a more infinite distance, a greater disproportion between us and
the divine nature, so that we cannot rise up to an understanding notion of it, in itself? Nay,
besides, one man will do many things which another cannot understand—he beholds the art of
it, he sees the matter, but yet he cannot pierce into the mind of the workman, and look upon
that wisdom and idea of his mind. Therefore all that we can conclude from these wonderful works
of God, is some silent admiration of him. If these be such, then what must he be? How infinitely
distant from them, and transcendent over them? But what he is, these cannot declare, and we
cannot apprehend. Then we use to climb up to the knowledge of God, by attributing to him all
the perfections, excellencies, and eminences of the creatures. Whatsoever commends them we
apprehend that originally and infinitely in him, and thus we spell out that name that is most
simply one, in many letters and characters, according to our mean capacity, as children when
they begin to learn. So we ascribe to him wisdom, goodness, power, justice, holiness, mercy,
truth, &c.  All which names being taken from the creatures, and so having significations suited
to our imperfections, they must needs come infinitely short of him, and so our apprehensions
of them. These are scattered among the creatures, therefore they cause divers conceptions in
us, but all these are united in him. He is a most simple, pure being, that eminently and virtually
is all things, and properly is none of all.

Another way we have of apprehending him, by way of negation, denying all the imperfections
of the creatures, and removing them at an infinite distance from him. And truly, though this
be an imperfection in knowledge, yet it is the greatest knowledge we can attain to, to know
rather what he is not, than what he is. He is not limited to any place, nor bounded with any
measures and degrees of perfection, as creatures are, therefore we call him infinite. He is
not comprehended within the limits of time, but comprehends all within himself, therefore he
is eternal. He is not subject to changes and alterations, therefore called immutable. He is
not compounded, as a result of divers parts, therefore he is most purely simple, and one. He
is not like those things we see and hear, that fall under our senses, therefore we call him
a Spirit, or a spiritual Being. Now, in all these weak endeavours of man, to detain and fix
his own spirit in the contemplation of God, if he cannot reach the understanding of what God
is, yet certainly he will attain this great point of wisdom,—not to be ignorant of his own
ignorance. And truly, my beloved, this is the thing I would have us to learn to know, that
the admiration of God in silence is the best expression of him. We would not search into these
mysteries, to satisfy our curiosity, but rather compose our hearts to a continual silent wondering
before him for where our understandings are confounded, and our minds overwhelmed with the
infiniteness of that glory, so that we can see nothing but our ignorance of all this should
certainly compose all to quiet admiration, for silence and wonder is the proper and natural
posture of a soul that is at a stand, and can neither get forward for inaccessible light, nor
will retire backward, for that it apprehends already.

“This then is the message, that God is light.” Because we cannot conceive in our poor narrow
minds what God is in himself, therefore he expresseth to us often in similitudes to the creatures,
and condescends to our capacity. As he stands in manifold relations to us, so he takes the
most familiar names, that may hold out to our dull senses what we may expect of him.  Therefore
he calls himself a Father, a King, a Husband, a Rock, a Buckler, and Strong Tower, a Mountain,
and whatsoever else they may represent to our hearts, that which may strengthen them in believing.
But there is no creature so directly attributed to God, as light, none used to express his
very nature and being, as abstracted from these relations, but this,—“God is light,” and Christ
takes it to himself—“the light of the world, and the life of men.”  The truth is, it hath some
excellency in it above all other visible creatures, that it may fitly carry some resemblance
to him. The scripture calls light his garment, Psal. civ. 2. And truly it is a more glorious
robe of Majesty than all the royal and imperial robes and garments of state that either angels
or men could contrive.

Hereby you may have shadowed out unto you the nature of God, that he is an all knowing, intelligent
Being.  As light is the first and principal visible thing yea, that which gives visibility
to all things, and so is in its own nature a manifestation of all things material and bodily,
so God is the first object of the understanding—primum intelligibile, et primum intelligens.
Nothing so fit an emblem of knowledge as light, and truly in that respect God is the original
light, a pure intellectual light that hath in himself the perfect idea and comprehension of
all things.  He hath anticipated in himself the knowledge of all, because all things were formed
in his infinite understanding, and lay, as it were, first hid in the bowels of his infinite
power. Therefore he is a globe or mass of light and knowledge, like the sun, from whom nothing
is hid.  Hell and destruction are not covered to him.  There is no opacity, no darkness or
thickness in the creation, that can terminate or bound this light, or hinder his understanding
to pierce into it.  Now as all things, by the irradiation of the light, become visible so the
participation of this glorious Sun of righteousness, and the shining of his beams into the
souls of men, makes them to partake of that heavenly intellectual nature, and reflects a wonderful
beauty upon them, which is not in the rest of the world.

Besides, here is represented to us the absolute purity and perfection of God’s nature,—“God
is light, and in him is no darkness.” Besides the purity of the light of knowledge, there is
a purity of the beauty of holiness.  The glorious light of God’s virtue, and power, and wisdom,
is communicated to all the creatures.  There is an universal extent of his influence towards
the good and bad, as the sun shines on both and yet there is no spot nor stain upon his holiness
or righteousness, from all his intermingling with the creatures, the worst and basest creatures.
All his works are holy and righteous, even his works in unholy and unrighteous men.  He draws
no defilement from the basest of the creatures, nor yet from the sinfulness of it. He can be
intimately present and conjoined in working, in virtue and power, in care and providence with
the dirt and mire of the streets, with the beasts of the field, and yet that is no stain upon
his honour or credit, as men would suppose it to be, no more than it is a dishonour to the
sun to shine on the dunghill.  In a word, there is no mixture of ignorance, darkness, impunity,
or iniquity in him not the least shadow of change or turning not the least seed of imperfection.
In regard of him, the moon is not clean, and the sun is spotted.  In respect of his holiness,
angels may be charged with folly. He is the life of the world, and the light of men.  Every
good gift, and every perfect donation descends from him, James i. 17.  His influence is more
universal to the being, to the moving, to the living of all things.  And then Jesus Christ,
the Sun of righteousness, is carried about in the orb of the gospel, and in his beams there
is a healing virtue. These are the refreshments of poor wearied souls, that are scorched with
the anger of God. There is an admirable heat and warmness of love and affection that this glorious
light carries embosomed in it, and that is it that pierces into souls, and warms hearts, and
quickens dead spirits, and puts a new face upon all again. This is the spring of all the life
that is truly spiritual, and it hath as sweet and comfortable effects upon the souls of men
who receive the truth in love, the light in love, that is, the light with heat, as ever the
sun approaching near the earth hath had upon plants and living creatures.

Sermon XI. Communion and fellowship with God is the great end and design of the gospel, and
it is the great result of all a Christian’s pains and progress. It is not only the greatest
part of religion, but the very reward of religion too, for piety hath its reward of happiness
in the bosom of it, without borrowing from external things. Now, that which this sweet and
fragrant fruit, which perfumes all the soul with delight, and fills it with joy, springs out
of, is conformity to God. Assimilation of nature and disposition, some likeness to God imprinted
on the soul again in holy affections and dispositions, a coincidency of our will with the will
of God, drowning of it in the sea of his good pleasure, his law in the inward parts. Now what
is the root of this conformity, but the knowledge of God? This is that which hath a virtue
to transform the soul into his similitude. You see then where true religion begins lowest,
and by what means it grows up to the sweet fruit of that eternal joy that shall be pressed
out of the grapes of fellowship with God. So then, whatsoever is declared of God unto us in
his word, whatsoever is holden forth of him, is not only set forth to be the subject of our
knowledge, but especially to be a pattern for imitation, and to be an inflaming motive to our
affection. This is the very substance of the verse.

“This then is the message” I declare, “that God is light,” and this I heard not from Christ
only, for the satisfaction of my curiosity, nor do I declare it to you only, that you may know
it, as if you had no more to do with it, but especially that ye may know what ye ought to be
in conformity to that light. The end of your knowing God, is to become liker God, if so be
ye would have communion with him.

Let us take this rule, then, to measure all our searchings after God, and inquirings into him.
Certainly there ought to be more meditation and inquiry of heart upon this subject, because
it is the spring of all life to the soul. It is that which enricheth it most, and fills it
with peace, joy, and delight, and brings in a treasure into a man’s heart, such as Christ speaks
of—“A good man out of the good treasure of his heart,” &c. Meditation, much meditation on God,
a stayedness and fixedness of spirit upon him, lays up a treasure in the heart. This is it
that makes such a difference between the heart and mouth of a righteous man, and a wicked man.
The heart of the wicked is little worth, for the total want of this, and therefore, their lips
and tongues are void of edification, full of corruption. But where this spring floweth within,
it maketh the mouth of a man like a well of life, it maketh his lips like choice silver. O
the scantiness and neglect of this amongst Christians makes all to wither and decay! There
is little searching after the Almighty, little employing and entertaining our spirits about
him, how slender and single thoughts and apprehensions of him, which cannot but cause a deliqium(241)
and decay in all the parts of Christianity, when the very sun is eclipsed from us by our ignorance
and inconsideration of him and that so long it must have dreadful effects upon us. Therefore,
let us be exhorted to this study to give our spirits to this employment—to think more on God.
But, as I was saying, there is need of a rule to measure us in it, and of some caution about
it, that is that we have our end rightly established, what we aim at in inquiring after, or
meditating upon God. If it be only to give entertainment to the curiosity of our minds, as
in the contemplation of natural things, if it be only to pry into secrets and mysteries, and
to labour to comprehend that which is incomprehensible, then we lose our labour, and we are
in danger to meet with a consuming fire, instead of instructing and refreshing light. I would
therefore have this guarded against,—the insatiable desire and greediness of our minds after
the knowledge of secret mysteries. We may set bounds here, and not overstretch or strain our
understandings, to compass his infinite Being, as it is in itself. Let us rather take him up
as he is revealed in the scriptures, and so meditate on him as manifested in his word and works,
his grace, mercy, power, wisdom, &c. and read his name with delight in those large volumes
spread before our eyes, &c.

Now the just measuring and regulating of all knowledge of God is to direct it to a further
end to have nothing before us but this, that we may reverence, adore, fear, and love him so
much the more. And this is the thing that maketh access to him most easy and sweet when the
design a soul hath, in all its searchings about him, is for this purpose, to the end it may
love him and worship him more suitably, and be more conformed to him, when he is looked upon
as a pattern of our conformity, that is, the right apprehension and up taking of him to know
that God is light, and so to know it, as in it to behold the necessity of what qualification
should be in us, that is indeed to know God. My beloved, let us consider that so much we know
of God, as we love him and fear him, and are conformed unto him, for that knowledge, which
is not about this work and design, is for no other purpose but to be a witness against a man,
and the most heinous aggravation of his sins.

To come then to the particular in hand, “God is light,” and that is holden out and declared
for this end, that there may be a pattern of the qualification of all that intend to enter
into that society, if ye would have fellowship with God, then consider what you engage into,
what manner of person he is, for the intimate knowledge of one another is presupposed to all
constant friendship. You must know then what God is if you would have communion with him, because
there is no communion without some conformity, and no conformity without knowledge of him.
Therefore, as he is light, so the soul must be made light in him, and enlightened by him, that
would have his society. We must be transformed into that nature, and made children of light,
who were children of darkness. Now, as there is a light of understanding and wisdom in God,
and a light of holiness and purity, so there is in our souls, opposite to these, a darkness
of ignorance and unbelief, and a darkness of sin, and impurity of affections. Now, “what communion
can light have with darkness?” Let every man ask this at his own heart, if there be no happiness
without this society, and no possibility of this society, while I remain in darkness, then
is it not high time to come to the light? This then is the first change that is made in a soul,
the darkness of ignorance and unbelief is driven out, by the approach of that glorious light
of the gospel into the heart, then is discovered unto the soul that deformity of sin, that
loathsomeness in itself that it never apprehended. Then there is a manifestation of the hidden
works of darkness, of the desperate wickedness of the heart, which lay unobserved and unsuspected
all the while. And now a man cannot in that view but abhor himself, for that which none else
can see in him. And there is withal manifested that glorious holiness and purity in God, that
inviolable righteousness, that omnipotent power, which formerly were never seriously thought
upon, now these are represented to the life before a sinner. And to close up all, there is
a manifestation of the grace and goodness of God in Christ, which discovers a way of salvation,
and delivery from sin and wrath, and this perfumeth and refresheth all the faculties of the
soul. Thus the soul is in a part conformed to that original light, when a beam is sent from
it, and hath pierced into the heart, and scattered the darkness that did alienate the minds
of men from God. But it is not only an illumination of the foreface, and outer side of the
soul, not only a conviction of the judgment in these things, but by virtue of that divine heat
that is transmitted with the light of the gospel, the soul is purified and cleansed from its
grosser nature, and so is made transparent, that the light may shine into the very inwards
of the heart. And this is the special point of conformity to God,—to have our souls purged
from the darkness of sinful, earthly, and muddy affections,—to have them purified by the light
of God, from all the works and lusts of darkness, and the shining beauty of holy affections
and inclinations, to succeed and fill up the vacant room. If knowledge only reside in our brains,
and send not down warm beams to quicken and inflame the heart, then it is barren and unfruitful,
it is cold and unprofitable. If it hover only alone in our heads, and keep a motion there,
but send down no refreshing showers to the affections, which may make us abound in good fruits,
then it is like the windy clouds, clouds without rain, that pass away without any benefit to
the thirsty ground. Let us then take this along with us, let the impression of this description
of the divine Majesty abide in our hearts. “God is light,” and if we often ruminate and ponder
upon this, I think it will make us often to reflect upon ourselves, how we are darkness, and
this will breed some carefulness and desire in the soul, how to have this darkness removed,
that there may be a soul capable of divine illustration. This is it that advanceth the soul
to the nearest conformity with God, the looking often upon God, till our souls be enlightened
and our hearts purified, and this again puts the soul in the nearest capacity for that blessed
communion with God. “Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God,” Matt. v. 8. Truly
it is not profoundness of ingine,(242) it is not acuteness and sharpness of wit, it is not
pregnancy in understanding, or eminency in parts, that will dispose the soul to this blessed
vision of God, and frame it to a capacity of fellowship with him. No, there needs no extraordinary
parts for this, nothing but that the heart be purified from corruptions, those inward earthly
qualities, that are like so many vicious and gross humours, filling the organ of the sight,
these, pride, conceit, self love, passion, anger, malice, envy, strife, covetousness, love
of pleasures, ambition, these, I say, that possess the hearts of the most excellent natural
spirits, cast a mist upon their eyes, and hinder them to see God, or enjoy that delight in
him, that some poor, weak, and ignorant creatures, whose hearts the Lord had purged from sin,
do find in God. Therefore if any of you have an aim at this, to have fellowship with God, know
both for your direction and your encouragement, that “God is light.” For your direction, because
that must be your pattern, and if you have no study that way to be like him in holiness, you
shall not see him. But take it likewise for an encouragement, for that style carries not only
the necessity of what he must be, but it holds out likewise the fountain and storehouse of
all our qualifications, for “God is light.” The original, primitive light,—all must borrow
of him, and that light is freely and impartially communicable to poor sinners “with thee is
the fountain of light, and in thy light shall we see light.” Let a soul that apprehends its
own darkness and distance from him thus encourage itself. My light is but a beam derived from
his light, and there is no want in him. He is a sun of righteousness. If I shut not up my heart
through unwillingness and unbelief, if I desire not to keep my sins, but would be purged from
them, then that glorious light may shine without stop and impediment into my heart. He is not
only light in his own nature, but he is a light to us, and if he please to remove that which
is interposed between him and us, it shall be day light in our hearts again. Thus a soul may
strengthen itself to wait on him, and by looking thus up to him, and fixing on him, we shall
be enlightened, and our faces not be ashamed.

Sermon XII.

    1 John i. 6.—“If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk
    in darkness, we lie,” &c.

There is nothing in which men suffer themselves to be so easily deceived as in this highest
concernment of religion, in which the eternal interest of their souls lies. There is no delusion
either so gross or so universal in any other thing, as in this thing, in regard of which all
other things are nothing. This hath overspread the world, (to speak only of that part which
pretends to Christianity,) a strong, pertinacious, and blind fancy of being in Jesus Christ
and having interest in salvation. I call it a blind and ignorant fancy, for truly ignorance
and darkness is the strongest foundation of such conceits. Papists call it the mother of devotion.
It is true, in this sense it is the mother of a man’s groundless devotion towards himself,
that is, of delusion. This, together with self-love, which always hoodwinks the mind, and will
not suffer a serious impartial examination of a man’s self, these, I say, are the bottom of
this vain persuasion, that possesseth the generality of men. Now, what it wants of knowledge,
it hath of wilfulness. It is a conceit altogether void of reason, but it is so wilful and pertinacious,
that it is almost utterly inconvincible, and so it puts souls in the most desperate forlorn
estate that can be imagined. It makes them, as the apostle speaks, (Eph. v. 6) υιοις της απαθειας
children of impersuasion,—it is rendered commonly, “children of disobedience.” And, indeed,
they are joined together. They are children of disobedience, carrying the manifest characters
of wrath upon them, yet they are withal children of impersuasion, incapable of any persuasion
contrary to these deluding insinuations of their own minds. Though they be manifest to all
men to be sons of disobedience, living in rebellion against God, yet it is not possible to
persuade them of it. They are as far from conviction of what they are, as reformation to what
they should be. Notwithstanding, if men would but give an impartial and attentive ear to what
the apostle says here, I suppose the very frame of his argument is so convincing, that he could
not but leave some impression. If any thing will convince a child of impersuasion, the terms
here propounded are finest, “God is light, and in him is no darkness.” Hence it follows, by
unavoidable consequence, as clear as the light, that no man can have fellowship with God that
walks in darkness.

Those that delude themselves in this matter are of two kinds. They generally pretend to Christianity
in general, and to an interest in salvation, but if we descend into the chief parts and members
of Christianity, as holiness, fellowship with God, walking after the Spirit, and such like,
these they do not so much as pretend to. And withal, they think they have a dispensation from
such strictness, and make it a sufficient plea that they are not such, because they never professed
to be such. Others again, though fewer, can pretend even to these higher points of Christianity,
as communion with God, walking after the Spirit, and indeed in this they are more consonant
to their profession of Christianity. But, as the apostle saith, there may be a practical lie
in it too, if we consider and compare their practice with their profession.

I would speak a word, by way of preparation, to you who are of the first sort, that is, the
very multitude of professing Christians, because you do not profess so much as others, and
do not give out yourselves for the students of holiness, you think yourselves exempted from
the stroke of all this soul piercing doctrine. You think readily it is not pertinent to apply
this to you of walking contrary to your profession, and so committing this gross lie in not
doing the truth. “If any man say I have fellowship with God,” &c. And who will say that, say
ye? Who will speak such a high word of himself as this? Therefore, since you do not presume
so high, you think you have escaped the censure that follows.

But, I beseech you, consider what your professions import, and what you engage yourselves to
even by the general profession of Christianity. I know you will all say you are Christians,
and hope to be saved. Now, do ye understand what is included in that? If any man say that he
is a Christian, he really says that he hath fellowship with God, if any man say he is a Christian,
he says he hath fellowship with Christ, and is partaker of his Spirit, for, as the apostle
(Rom. viii. 9) declares unto you, “If any have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his,
that is, he is no Christian. For what is it, I pray you, to be a Christian? Is it not to be
a new creature, formed again by the Spirit of Christ?” 2 Cor. v. 17. Therefore, in as far as
you pretend to be Christians, and yet are not professors of holiness, and think you have a
dispensation from such a walking in God and after Christ, you fall under a twofold contradiction,
and commit a twofold lie: first, between your profession and practice, then in your profession
itself,—your practice is directly cross to the very general profession of Christianity. But
besides that, there is a contradiction in the bosom of your profession. You affirm you are
Christians, and yet refuse the profession of holiness. You say ye hope for heaven, and yet
do not so much as pretend to godliness and walking spiritually. Nay, these you disjoin in your
profession, which are really one, without which the name of Christianity is an empty, vain,
and ridiculous appellation. There must be then a great darkness of misapprehension in your
minds, that you take on the name of Christians, and will not know what it imports, and therefore
in the mean time, you profess that which destroys and annuls your former profession. Now, certainly,
this is a grosser lie, a flatter contradiction, than needs much inquiry into, to find it out.
It is so palpable, that I wonder that these very common and received principles of truth do
not use up within to testify against it, for if ye do not own the profession of holiness and
communion with God, what advantage have you then of Christianity? Tell me, what will it serve
you for? Can it save you? Can a bare, empty, contradicted, and blasphemed title save you? And
if it do not save you, it will make your condemnation the greater. Let this then first be settled
in our hearts, and laid down as a principle,—that the most general profession of Christianity
lays an inviolable bond and obligation upon us, to all that is imported in the particular expressions
of a Christian’s nature, walk, and society. Whether we take it so or not, thus it is: to be
a Christian infolds all that can be said, and if it do not import these, it is not true to
its own signification nor conformed to Christ’s meaning. You may deprave the world as you please,
and deform that holy calling so, as it may suit to your carriage, but according to this word,
in this acceptation of it, you shall be judged, and if your Judge shall in that great day lay
all this great charge upon you, what will it avail you now to absolve yourselves in your imaginations,
even from the very obligation itself?

Let us suppose, then, that you are convicted of this, that Christianity, in the most general
and common acceptation, is inclusive of fellowship and communion with God, and that you profess
and pretend to both, then let us apply this just rule of the apostles, to examine the truth
and reality of such a profession. The rule is straight, and so may be a trial both of that
which is straight and crooked. Rectum sui et obliqui index: And here the application being
made, there is a discovery of the falsehood and crookedness of most men’s hearts. This golden
rule of examination is a rule of proportion, so to speak, or it is founded upon the harmony
that should be between profession and practice, words and deeds, and upon that conformity should
intercede between those that have communion one with another. Now apply these to the generality
of Christians, and behold there is no harmony and consent between their speaking and walking.
Their calling and profession, as Christians, imports communion with God, who is the pure unmixed
light, and yet they declare otherwise, that themselves are in darkness of ignorance, and walk
in the darkness of sin, and so that communion must be pretended, where there is no conformity
and likeness to God intended. The result then of all is this, herein is the greatest lie, and
most dangerous withal, committed,—it is the greatest lie, because it takes in all a man’s conversation,
which all alone makes up one great universal lie, a lie composed of infinite contrarieties,
of innumerable particular lies, for every step, every word, and action, is in its own nature
contrary to that holy profession, but all combined together, makes up a black constellation
of lies—one powerful lie against the truth. And, besides, it is not against a particular truth,
but against the whole complex of Christianity. And error is a lie against such a particular
truth as it opposeth, but the tract and course of an ignorant ungodly conversation is one continued
lie against the whole bulk and body of Christianity. It is a lie drawn the length of many weeks,
months, and years against the whole frame of Christian profession. For there is nothing in
the calling of a Christian, that is not retracted, contradicted, and reproached by it. Oh!
that ye could unbowel your own ways, and see what a cluster of lies and incongruities is in
them, what reproaches and calumnies these practical lies cast upon the honour of your Christian
calling, how they tend of their own nature, to the disgracing of the truth, and the blaspheming
of God’s name! These things ye would find, if ye would rip up your own hearts and ways, and
if you found how great that he is, you could not but fear the danger of it, for it being no
less than a denying of Jesus Christ, and a real renunciation of him, it puts you without the
refuge of sinners, and is most likely to keep you without the blessed city, for “there shall
in no wise enter therein anything that defileth, or maketh a lie,” Rev. xxi. 27. What shall
then become of them whose life all along is but one continued lie?

Sermon XIII.

    1 John i. 6.—“If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk
    in darkness, we lie,” &c.

That which is the sum of religion, sincerity, and a correspondency between profession and practice,
is confirmed by reason, and much strengthened by nature itself, so that religion, reason, and
nature, conspire in one, to hold out the beauty and comeliness of sincerity, and to put a note
and character of infamy and deformity upon all hypocrisy and deceit, especially in the matters
of religion. There is nothing so contrary to religion, as a false appearance, a show of that
which is not for religion is a most entire and equable thing, like itself, harmonious in all
parts of it, the same within and without, in expression and action, all correspondent together.
Now, to mar this harmony, and to make it up of unequal, dissimilar parts, and to make one part
give the lie to the other, the course of a man’s life, in ignorance, negligence, and sin, proclaiming
contrary to the profession of Christianity, this is to make religion a monstrous thing, to
deny the nature of it, and in our imaginations to contrive an impossible union of inconsistent
things. It is a creature made up of contradictions, which can have no subsistence in the truth,
but only in the fancies of deluded souls, one professing Christianity, and so by consequence
fellowship with the original light, the Sun of righteousness and yet darkness of ignorance
possessing the mind, and the heart carried away in the ways of the lusts of ignorance, and
walking in that darkness. This is a monster in Christianity, one so far misshapen, that the
very outward form and visage of it doth not remain. But I told you, reason confirms this. For
what more suitable to the very natural frame and constitution of a reasonable being, than that
the outward man should be the image and expression of the inward, and that they should answer
one another as face answers face in the water, that the tongue should be the interpreter of
the mind, and the actions of a man’s life the interpreter of his tongue? Here is that beautiful
proportion, and that pleasing harmony, when all these, though different in their own nature,
yet conjoin together, and make up one sweet concord. Now truly, if we take upon us the profession
of Christianity, and yet our ordinary and habitual speeches are carnal and earthly, never salted
with grace, often poisoned with blasphemies, oaths, and cursings, and often defiled with filthy
speeches, and often intermingled with reproaches of others, if our conversation be conformed
to the course of the world, according to those lusts that hurry away multitudes of mankind
to perdition, and look to the heart within, and behold never any labour about the purifying
of it from corruption, never any mortification of evil affections, and little or no knowledge
of the truth, not so much as may let Christ into the soul: this, I say, is as unreasonable
and absurd, as it is irreligious: It wholly perverts that beautiful order, makes an irreconcilable
discord between all the parts in man, that neither mind, nor mouth, nor hands, answer one another,
nor all of them, nor any of them answer that holy calling a man pretends to. Such a one pretends
ordinarily the goodness of his heart towards God, but now the tongue cannot interpret the heart.
It is exauctorated out of that natural office, for the ordinary current is contrary to that
pretended goodness of the heart, for “a good man, out of the good treasure of his heart, sendeth
forth good things,” but all these are either evil, or never seasoned with that spiritual goodness.
Then the ways and actions of a man’s life which ought to interpret and expound his professions,
these are rendered altogether incapable of that. They give no confirmation to them, but rather
a manifest contradiction, for what are your multiplied oaths, drunkennesses, fornications,
railings, contentions, lyings, sabbath-profanations, your woful neglect of prayer in secret,
and in your families, your continuing in these evils that ever you walked into? What are they,
I say, but a manifest violation of both religion and reason, and a clear confirmation that
ye are liars, and the truth is not in you?

There is something even in nature to declare the absurdity and unnaturalness of this general
discordance between men’s profession and practice. Look upon all the creatures, and do they
not all with one voice proclaim sincerity? Hath not every beast and every bird its own outward
shape, outward gesture, and voice, and external workings, which declare the inward nature of
it? And is not this a staple, known rule in nature, that every thing is known by the effects
of it, a lion by his roaring, a lark by its singing, a horse by his neighing, and an ox by
his lowing? &c. All these speak forth nothing but sincerity, insomuch, that if these marks
and signs should be confounded, and beasts use them indifferently, all human knowledge should
suddenly fall to nothing, this would put such a confusion both in the world and mankind. O
how doth this condemn those who pretend to this high calling of Christianity! And yet there
is no way left to discern them by, nothing appearing in them, and ordinarily proceeding from
them, which may give a signification of the inward truth of their fellowship with God, but
rather that which gives a demonstration of the vanity of the pretension. There were no consent
in nature, if that were not, neither is there any harmonious agreement in religion, where this
proportion and correspondence is not kept in a man’s life. The very heathens did not account
them philosophers, but those that expressed their doctrines in works, as well as words, and
truly, the liveliest image of truth is in practice. They commended them that were sparing in
words, and abundant in deeds, who had short speeches, but long and large discourses in their
life. And what is this, but that which our Saviour everywhere, from his own example inculcates
upon us? These words are emphatic, to do the truth, to walk in the light, to do his words,
to believe with the heart, and such like, all which declare, that in so far we have the truth
and have fellowship with the Light as it is impressed in the affection, and expressed again
in the conversation. For the infinite truth and the infinite life is one, and the original
Light and primitive life and love is one too and whoever truly receives the truth and light
as it is, cannot but receive him as the living truth and life giving Light and so be heated
and warmed inwardly by his beams, which will certainly cause some stirring and working without.
Forasmuch is in nature heat is always working so is the fire of love kindled in the heart,
incessant that way “Faith worketh by love.” For action is the very life of life, that which
both shows it and preserves it.

Now what shall we say, to carry these things home to your hearts?  Where shall convincing words
be had which may break the hardness of your hearts? It is strange that you are in such a deep
dream of delusion, that nothing can awake you out of it. And how little is that in which you
have to please yourselves? Some external privileges the temple of the Lord, his covenant and
the seals of it, your ordinary hearing the word, and such like. But are there not many things
in your hearts and ways that act the most contradictory be to these that can be? For wherefore
do we thus meet together? Do you know an end, or propose any? I scarce believe it of the most
part. We come out of custom, and many as by constraint, and with little or no previous consideration
of the great end of this work. And when ye go forth, what fruit appears?  Your ordinary cultural
and civil discourses succeed, and who is it either bows his knee to pray for the divine blessing
or entertains that holy word either in his own meditation, or speaks of it to the edification
of others? Are you not, the most part of you, that ground of which Christ speaks, that lies
in “the way side,” and every thing comes and takes the seed up? Do you either listen and apply
your hearts to a presentness in hearing? Or is there any more account of it, than a sound in
the ear or any footstep or impression left in the heart, more than of the flight of a bird
in the air?  And, alas! how many souls are choked and stifled, the truth suffocated in the
very springing by the thorns of the cares of this world, and the throng and importunity of
businesses, and earthly desires? How many good motions come to no maturity by this means? How
few of you use to pray in secret and dedicate a time for retirement from the world and enjoyment
of God? Nay, you think you are not called to it, and if any be induced to it and to public
worship in their families yet all the day over is but a flat contradiction to that. What earthly
mindedness!  What unholiness of affection! What impurity of conversation! What one lust is
subdued? What one sin mortified? Who increaseth more in knowledge of the truth or in love of
God? Is it not midnight with the most part of you?  O the darkness of the ignorance of your
minds, by which you know not that religion you profess, more than lurks who persecute it! And
what are the ways to which ye walk? Are they not such ways as will not come to the light, and
hate the light, because it reproves them? John iii. 19, 20, xi. 9, 10. Are they not such in
which men stumble, though they seem to walk easily and plainly in them?  Yet O that everlasting
stumble that is at the end of them, when you shall fall out of one darkness of sin and delusion
into another extreme, eternal darkness of destruction and damnation! O that fearful dungeon
and pit of darkness you post into!  Therefore, if you love your own souls, be warned. I beseech
you be warned to flee from that utter darkness. Be awaked out of your deceiving dreams, and
deluding self flattering imaginations, and “Christ shall give you light.” The discovery of
that gross darkness you walked in, in which you did not see whither you went. I say, the clear
discerning of what it is, and whither it leads, is the first opening of that light, the first
visit of that morning star, that brings salvation.

If ye will not be convinced of that infinite danger you are in, yet ye are not the further
from it. He that walketh in darkness lieth, &c. His strong confidence and persuasion hath a
lie, a contradiction in the bosom of it, and that will never bottom any true happiness. It
is a lie acted by the hand, the foot, and all the members, a lie against the holy truth and
word of God, and the very reproach of the name of Christ; a lie against yourselves, and your
own professions, a foul-murdering lie, as well as a Christ denying lie.  And this lie, as a
holy man saith, hath filled houses, cities, families, countries. It hath even overspread the
whole nation, and filled all with darkness, horror, confusion, trouble, and anguish.  Once
being a holy nation by profession of a covenant with God, and our open, manifest, universal
retraction of that, by an unholy, ungodly, and wicked conversation, this hath brought the sword
against a hypocritical nation, and this will bring that far greater, incomparably more intolerable
day of wrath upon the children of disobedience. Therefore let me exhort all of you, in the
name of the Lord, as ye desire to be admitted to that eternally blessed society within the
holy city, and not to be excluded among those who commit abomination, and make a lie, that
ye would henceforth impose this necessity upon yourselves, or know that it is laid upon you
by God, to labour to know the will and truth of God, that you may see that light that shines
in the gospel, and not only to receive it in your minds, but in your hearts by love that so
you may endeavour in all sincerity the doing of that truth, the conscionable practising of
what you know.  And this, as it is a great point of conformity to the light, so it will make
you capable of more light from God, for he delights to show his liberality, where he hath any
acceptance. Be not satisfied, O be not satisfied, with knowing these truths, and discoursing
upon them, but make them further your own, by impressing them deeply in your hearts, and expressing
them plainly in your ways!  This is “pure religion and undefiled,” James i. 27.  And “is not
this to know me, saith the Lord?” Jer. xxii. 16.  Practice is real knowledge, because it is
living knowledge. It is the very life and soul of Christianity, when there needs no more but
the intimation of his will to carry the whole man.  This is what we should all aspire unto,
and not satisfy ourselves in our poor attainments below this.

Sermon XIV.  Therefore it is a more high and transcendent thing, of a sublimer nature than
all the arts and sciences among men. Those reach but to some resemblance of the wisdom of God,
expressed in his works, but this aspires to an imitation of himself in holiness, which is the
glory of his name, and so to a fellowship with himself.  Therefore there is nothing hath so
high a pattern, or sublime an end.  God himself, who is infinitely above all, is the pattern,
and society with God is the end of it and so it cannot choose, but where religion makes a solid
impression on a soul.  It must exceedingly raise and advance it to the most heroic and noble
resolutions that it is capable of, in respect of which elevation of the soul after God, the
highest projects, the greatest aspirings, and the most elevating designs of men, are nothing
but low, base, and wretched, having nothing of true greatness of mind in them, but running
in an earthly and sordid channel, infinitely below the poorest soul that is lifted up to God.

Since we have then so high a pattern as God, because he is infinitely removed from us in his
own nature, we have him expressed to us under the name and notion of light, which makes all
things manifest, not only as dwelling in inaccessible light, that is in his own incomprehensible,
ineffable essence, even before this light was created, for he is in the light, and was in the
light, when there was no sun to give light, because he was in himself environed, so to speak,
with the infinite light and splendour of his own understanding, and beauty of his own holiness,
and so dwelling in an all fulness and self sufficiency of blessedness, not only is he thus
in the light, but he is a light to poor sinners, the most communicative Being, that ceaseth
not continually to send forth streamings of that light and life into dark and dead souls. And
therefore he is not only light in himself, but a sun of righteousness, most beneficial in his
influences, most impartial and free in his illumination, and so he is often called,—“my light
and my salvation,” our light, “a light to me,” Psal. xxvii. 1, Micah vii. 8, Isa. xlii. 6,
7. Now, it is this emission of light from him that first drives away that gross darkness that
is over souls, for till then, in the darkness all was hid and covered, nothing seen, neither
ourselves, nor God, neither the temper of our hearts, nor the course of our ways, nor the end
they lead to. But it is the breaking in of a beam of that Sun of Righteousness that maketh
any such discovery, as motes are not seen till the sun shine, though the house be full of them.
In darkness there is nothing but confusion and disorder, and light only makes that disorder
visible to the soul, to the affecting of the heart. Now, when once the soul hath received that
light, there is a desire kindled in the heart after more of it, as when the eye hath once perceived
the sweetness and pleasantness of the light, it opens itself and exposeth itself to a fuller
reception of more. And so the soul that is once thus happily prevented by the first salutation
and visit of that day-spring from on high, while he is sitting in darkness, and in the shadow
of death, (Luke i. 78, 79) afterwards follows after that light, and desires nothing more than
to be imbosomed with it. That tender preventing mercy so draws the heart after it, that it
can never be at perfect rest till the night be wholly spent, and all the shadows of it removed,
and the sun clearly up above the horizon and that is the day of that clear vision of God’s
face. But in the mean time, this is the great ambition and endeavour of such an one, to walk
in that light, and this is the very entertainment of that fellowship with God. He is already
in the light, that is, to say, he is translated from a state of darkness to light, and endued
with the living and saving knowledge of God in Jesus Christ. This is his state. He is in the
light, one enlightened from above, having his eyes opened to discover the mystery of the iniquity
of his own heart, and to see far off, to that bottomless pit of misery which his way would
lead him to, one who hath by this divine illustration discovered eternal things, and seen things
not seen, and withal, gotten some knowledge of salvation by the remission of sins. Now, such
an one, being thus in the light, his duty is, and his infinite dignity besides, to walk in
that light, that is, to lead all his life under that eternal light of God, which shines in
the word, and to bring it all forth in his view, to make our whole course a progressive motion
towards heaven, wherein that glorious light shines most gloriously. It is almost all one with
that of Paul’s, to have our conversation in heaven. For, to walk in the light, is a kind of
elevation of our actions, a raising them up to heaven, to that pure light, for after that and
towards that is the soul’s design.

Now to express to you in what it consists, I desire not to branch it forth in many particulars,
which rather distract the mind than affect the heart. Only you may know, it consists especially
in the inward retirements of the soul to God, and the outward shining of that light in our
conversation to others. These are the chief parts of it, borrowing from his light, and then
lending and imparting it to others, by a holy conversation. Truly, we must needs conceive that
the most lively and unmixed partaking of the light of God, and the sweetest society with him,
is in the secret withdrawings of the soul from the world, and reposes upon God those little
intervals, and, as it were, stolen hours of fellowship with God, that are taken from the multitude
and throng of our business. These are the fittest opportunities of the transforming the soul
into his similitude, and of purifying it as he is pure, of filling it with divine light and
love, for then the heart lies, as it were, perpendicularly under his beams, and is opened before
him, to give admission and entry to this transforming light, and it is the shining of God’s
countenance then upon the soul that draws it most towards conformity with him, and leaves an
impression of light and love upon the soul.

Oh! that you were more acquainted with this, this aprication, so to speak, that is, sunning
yourselves and warming in the sun, the exposing and opening of your hearts frequently in secret,
before this sun of Righteousness. Now this, if you were acquaint with it, would make your light
so to shine before men, as your heavenly Father may be glorified, Matt. v. 16,—and that is
the walking in that light of God. This makes a Christian to come forth, as Moses from the Mount,
with his face shining. He comes out from the retired access to God, with a lustre upon his
carriage, that may beautify the gospel, and (as one saith well) with the tables of the law
in both his hands, written in his practice, the light of the law shining in his life. And truly
this is the Christian’s diurnal motion in his lower sphere, wherein he carries about that light
that is derived from the higher light. In all his converse with men, it shines from him to
the glorifying of him that is the Father of lights, walking righteously and soberly, without
offence, doing good to all, especially the children of light, extending offices of love and
benevolence to every one, forbearing and forgiving offences, not partaking with other men’s
sins, and, finally, declaring in word and deed, that we have communion with the fountain of
pure light, and one day expect to be translated out of this lower orb, where we are so far
distant from him, and fixed in the highest of all, where we may have the immediate, full, uninterrupted,
and clearest aspect of his countenance, which shall then make the description that is here
given of God communicable to us, that, as he is light, and in him is no darkness, so we, being
fully and perfectly shined upon by him, may be light likewise, without any mixture of darkness,
as here it is not.

Now, my beloved in the Lord, this is that we are called unto, to walk thus in the light, in
the light of obedience and sanctification, and that is the great thing ye would learn to aspire
unto, rather than to enjoy the light of consolation. Indeed, I conceive, that which maketh
many of us walk in darkness, as is spoken in Isa. i. 10, that is, without comfort, peace, and
joy, and without clear discerning our interest in God, is, because we walk in another darkness,
that is, of sin and distance from God. The one darkness is introductive of the other; nay,
they cannot be long without one another. The dark cloud of bold sinning, and careless uncircumspect
walking, that cannot but eclipse the light of consolation, and fill the soul with some horror,
anguish, and confusion. Therefore, if ye would walk in the light of joy and comfort, O take
heed nothing be interposed between God and your souls! You must likewise walk in the light
of his law, which is as a lamp to the feet, and this light, as the ray, begets that light of
comfort, as the splendour, which is the second light of the sun. I know it is a disconsolate
and sad condition, to walk without the light of the knowledge of our interest in God, but I
would earnestly recommend unto you two things to support you, and help you in that. One is,
that you do not give over the chief point of this society with God, that is, walking in the
light of his law and commandments, but that you do the more seriously address yourself to the
one, that you want the other. Certainly, it ought to be no hinderance of your obedience, and
patient continuing in obedience, that you know not your own interest, and that his countenance
shines not so upon you. You know that sweet resolution, “I will wait upon the Lord, who hides
his face,” &c. (Isa. viii. 17, Mic. vii. 7,) and his own command, Isa. i. 10, Hos. xii. 6.
Ye that walk in such darkness, nevertheless, “stay upon God.” Truly, there could be no greater
evidence of thy interest than this,—to give patient attendance upon him in the ways of obedience,
till he shine forth. This would in due time “bring forth thy righteousness as the light,” if
we would not subtract and withdraw ourselves from under the light, because it is presently
overclouded. Then, moreover, you would know, that all this while that your interest in Christ
lies dark and under a cloud, you would then be most in the application of that blood to your
souls, most in trusting and staying upon the name of God, and his absolute promises. Suppose
thou do not as yet know that he is thine, yet dost thou not know that he is made thine by believing
in him? And therefore, while it is inevident that it is already, thou oughtest so much the
more to labour, that what is not may be. Now, if thou canst not apply him to thy soul, as thine
own possession, yet thou mayest, and so much the more oughtest to apply thy soul to him, and
resign and offer thyself to him, as willing to be his possession, to be his, and no more thine
own. In a word, when thine own experimental feeling of the work of God’s Spirit fails within
thee, then so much the more insist, and dwell upon the meditation and belief of the general
promises, which are the proper object of faith, and not of sense. As our own interest is the
proper object of sense, and not of faith, therefore the defect in the one needs not redound
upon the other. To sum up all in one word,—if thou thinkest that thou hast not yet believed
in Christ, and hast no interest in him, I will not dispute with thee, to persuade thee thou
art mistaken, for all this debate would be in the dark, because thou art in darkness. But one
thing I would say unto thee,—labour to do that which thou wouldest do, which thou must do,
if such a case were granted. Suppose it were so, that thou had no interest in him, what wouldst
thou do then? I am sure thou wouldst say, I would labour by any means to have him mine. Why
then thou knowest that cannot be before believing, and receiving him on his promises, and not
at all but by believing. Therefore, since that this is it you must at length turn unto, suppose
the case were decided, why do you not presently, rather without more wearying yourselves in
the greatness of your way, turn in thither, as to a place of refuge without further disputing
in the business, and so by believing in Christ and waiting upon him in his ways, you shall
put that out of question, which debating would make an endless question. The Lord make you
wise to know the things that belong to your peace.

Sermon XV.

    1 John i. 7.—“And the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us
    from all sin.”

Can two walk together except they be agreed? As darkness cannot have fellowship with light,
till it be changed into some conformity to the light, even so there can neither be any fellowship
in walking, nor conformity in nature, between God and us who are enemies to him by nature,
unless there be some agreement and reconciliation of the difference. Now, here is that which
maketh the atonement,—“The blood of Jesus his Son cleanseth us from all sin.” This is it that
takes away the difference between God and men, and makes reconciliation for us. This blood
hath quenched the flame of indignation and wrath kindled in heaven against us. And this alone
can quench and extinguish the flames and furies of a tormented soul, that is burned up with
the apprehension of his anger. All other things thou canst apply or cast upon them will be
as oil to increase them, whether it be to cool thyself in the shadows of the world’s delights,
such a poor shift as the rich glutton would have taken in hell. Those drops of cold water that
thou canst distil out of the creature will never give any solid ease to thy conscience. Thou
mayest abate the fury of it, or put it off for a season. Thou who art afraid of hell and wrath,
mayest procure some short vacancy from those terrors by turning to the world, but certainly
they will recur again, and break out in a greater fire like a fever that is not diminished,
but increased by much drinking cold water. Or if thou go about to refresh thyself and satisfy
thy challenges by thy own attainments in religion, and by reflection upon thy own heart and
ways, finding something in thy esteem that may counterbalance thy evils, and so give thee some
confidence of God’s favour, those, I say, are but deceitful things, and will never either quench
the displeasure of God for thy sins, but rather add fuel to it, because thou justifiest thyself,
which is an abomination before him. Nor yet will it totally extinguish and put to silence the
clamours of thy conscience, but, that some day thou shalt be spoiled of all that self confidence
and self defence, and find thyself so much the more displeasing to God, that thou didst please
thyself and undertake to pacify him. Therefore, my beloved, let me, above all things, recommend
this unto you as the prime foundation of all religion, upon which all our peace with God, pardon
of sin, and fellowship with God must be built,—that the blood of Jesus Christ be applied unto
your consciences by believing, and that, first of all, upon the discovery of your enmity with
God, and infinite distance from him, you apply your hearts unto this blood, which is the atonement—to
the reconciling sacrifice, which alone hath virtue and power with God. Do not imagine that
any peace can be without this. Would ye walk with God, which is a badge of agreement? Would
ye have fellowship with God, which is a fruit of reconciliation? Would ye have pardon of sins,
and the particular knowledge of it, which is the greatest effect of favour,—and all this, without
and before application of Christ, “who is our peace,” in whom only the Father is well pleased?
Will ye seek these, and yet depute this point of believing, as if it were possible to attain
these without the sprinkling of that blood on the heart, which indeed cleanseth it from an
evil accusing conscience? If you desire to walk in the light, as he is in the light, why weary
ye yourselves in thy ways? Why take ye such a compass of endless and fruitless agitation, and
perplexity of mind, and will not rather come straightway at it, by the door of Jesus Christ?
For he is the new and living way into which you must enter, if ye would walk in the light.
And the wounds of his side, out of which this blood gushed, these open you a way of access
to him, because he was pierced for us. That stream of blood, if ye come to it and follow it
all along, it will certainly carry you to the sea of light and love, where you have fellowship
with God. And, oh! how much comfort is in it, that there is such a stream running all the way
of our walking with God—all the way of our fellowship! That fountain of Christ’s blood runs
not dry but runs along with the believer, for the cleansing of his after pollutions, of his
defilements, even in the very light itself. This, then, as it is the first foundation of peace
and communion with God, so it is the perpetual assurance and confirmation of it, that which
first gives boldness, and that alone which still continues boldness in it. It is the first
ground, and the constant warrant and security of it, without which it would be as soon dissolved
as made. If that blood did not run along all this way, to wash all his steps, if the way of
light and fellowship with God were not watered and refreshed with the continual current of
this blood, certainly none could walk in it without being consumed. Therefore it is, that the
mercy of God, and riches of grace in Christ, hath provided this blood for us, both to cleanse
the sins of ignorance before believing, and the sins of light after believing, that a poor
sinner may constantly go on his way, and not be broken off from God by his infirmities and
escapes in the way.

You see, then, the gospel runs in these two golden streams—pardon of sin, and purity of walking.
They run undividedly, all along in one channel, yet without confusion one with another, as
it is reported of some great rivers that run together between the same banks, and yet retain
distinct colours and natures all the way, till they part. But these streams that glad the city
of God never part one from another. The cleansing blood and the purifying light, these are
the entire and perfect sum of the gospel. Purification from sin, the guilt of sin, and the
purity of walking in the light flowing from that, make up the full complexion of Christianity,
which are so nearly conjoined together, that if they be divided they cease to be, and cannot
any of them subsist, save in men’s deluded imagination. The end of washing in the blood of
Christ is, that we may come to this light, and have fellowship with it. For the darkness of
hell, the utter darkness of the curse of God, which overspreads the unbelieving soul, and eclipses
all the light of God’s countenance from him,—that dark and thick cloud of guiltiness, that
heap of unrenewed conversation, this, I say, must be removed by the cleansing of the blood
of Christ, and then the soul is admitted to enjoy that light, and walk in it. And it is removed
chiefly for this end, that there may be no impediment in the way of this fellowship. This blood
cleanseth, that you, being cleansed, may henceforth walk in purity, and there is no purity
like that of the light of God’s countenance and commands. And so you are washed in the blood
of Christ, that you may walk in the light of God, and take heed that you defile not your garments
again. But if so be, (and certainly it will be, considering our weakness,) that you defile
yourselves again, like foolish children who, after they have washed, run to the puddle again,
forgetting that they were cleansed, if either your daily infirmities trouble, or some grosser
pollution defile and waste your conscience, know that this blood runs all along in the same
channel of your obligation to holy walking, and is as sufficient now as ever, to cleanse you
from all sin, from sins of daily incursion, and sins of a grosser nature. There is no exception
in that blood, let there be none in your application to it and apprehension of it. Now, this
is not to give boldness to any man to sin, or continue in sin, because of the lengthened use
and continued virtue and efficacy of the blood of Christ, for if any man draw such a result
from it, and improve it to the advantage of his flesh, he declares himself to have no portion
in it, never to have been washed by it. For what soul can in sobriety look upon that blood
shed by the Son of God, to take away the sins of the world, and find an emboldening to sin
from that view? Who can wash and cleanse here, and presently think of defilement, but with
indignation?

I speak these things the rather, because there is a twofold misapprehension of the gospel among
Christians, and on both hands much darkness and stumbling is occasioned. We have poor narrow
spirits, and do not take entire truth in its full comprehension, and so we are as unfit and
unequal discerners of the gospel, and receivers of it, as he that would judge of a sentence
by one word, of a book by one page, of a harmony by one note, and of the world by one parrel
of it. The beauty and harmony of things consist in their entire union, and though there should
appear many discrepancies and unpleasant discords in several parts, yet all united together,
makes up a pleasant concert. Now this is our childish foolishness, that we look upon the gospel
only by halves, and this being alone seen, begets misapprehensions and mistakes in our minds,
for ordinarily we supply that which we see not with some fancy of our own. When the blood of
Jesus Christ is holden out in its full virtue, in the large extent of its efficacy, to cleanse
all sin, and to make peace with God, and wipe away all transgressions, as if they had never
been, the generality of you never apprehending much your own desperate condition, nor conceiving
an absolute necessity of a change, you think this is all that is in the gospel, and begin to
flatter yourselves, and bless yourselves, though you live in the imaginations of your own hearts,
and never apprehend the absolute need and inevitable sequel of walking in purity after pardon.
And, alas! there is something of this sometimes overtakes the hearts of true believers, in
the slight and overly consideration of the mercy of God, and blood of Christ, you do not lay
the constraint upon your hearts to a holy conversation. I say, it is not because you apprehend
that blood, that you take more liberty to the flesh, but rather because you too slightly and
superficially consider it, and that but the one half of it, without piercing into the proper
end of that cleansing, which is, that we may walk in purity.

But, on the other hand, some believing souls, having their desires enlarged after more holiness
and conformity to God, and apprehending not only the necessity of it, but the beauty and comeliness
of it, yet finding withal how infinitely short they come, and how oft their purposes are broken
and disappointed, and themselves plunged in the mire of their own filthiness, this doth discourage
them, and drives them to such a despondency and dejection of spirit, that they are like to
give over the way of holiness as desperate. Now, my beloved, for you who look upon the gospel
by a parcel,(243) and such a parcel as enjoins much upon you, I would earnestly beseech you
to open and enlarge your hearts to receive the full body of the truth, to look upon that cleansing
blood as well as that pure light, to consider the perpetual use of the one, until you have
fully attained the other. Know that the fountain is kept open, and not shut, not only to admit
you to come at first, but to give ready access in all after defilements, and there is no word
more comprehensive than this here, it “cleanseth from all sin.” All thy exceptions, doubts,
and difficulties, are about some particular sins and circumstances, thy debates run upon some
exception. But here is an universal comprehensive word, that excludes all exception—no kind
of sin, either for quality, or degree, or circumstance, is too great for this blood. And therefore,
as you have reason to be humbled under your failings, so there is no reason to be discouraged,
but rather to revive your spirits and vigour again in the study of this walking in the light,
knowing that one day we shall be in the light, as he is in it. Nay, take this along with you,
as your strength and encouragement to your duty, as the greatest provocation to more purity,—that
there is so constant readiness of pardon in that blood.

Sermon XVI.

    1 John i. 8.—“If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves,
    and the truth is not in us.”

“The night is far spent, the day is at hand,” Rom. xiii. 12. This life is but as night, even
to the godly. There is some light in it,—some star light, but it is mixed with much darkness
of ignorance and sin, and so it will be, till the sun arise, and the morning of their translation
to heaven come. But though it be called night in one sense, in regard of that perfect glorious
perpetual day in heaven, yet they are called the children of light, and of the day, and are
said to walk in the light, and are exhorted to walk honestly as in the day, because, though
there is a mixture of darkness in them, of weakness in their judgments, and impurity in their
affections, yet they are nati ad majora, “born to greater things,” and aspiring to that perfect
day. There is so much light as to discern these night-monsters, their own corruptions, and
Satan’s temptations,—to fight continually against them. They are about this noble work, the
purifying themselves from sin and darkness, so that they lie in the middle, between the light
of angels and glorified spirits, that hath no darkness in it, and the midnight of the rest
of the world, who are buried in darkness and wickedness, and lie entombed in it, as the word
is, 1 John v. 19, “The whole world, (καται) lieth in wickedness: but we know that we are of
God,” therefore the apostle subjoins here very seasonably a caution or correction of that which
was spoken about the walking in the light, and fellowship with God, which words sound out some
perfection, and, to our self flattering minds, might possibly suggest some too high opinion
of ourselves. If we, even we that have fellowship with God, even I, the apostle, and you believing
Christians, if we say, we have no sin, no darkness in us, we do but deceive ourselves, and
deny the truth. But who will say that I have no sin? Solomon gives a challenge to all the world,
Prov. xx. 9, “Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?” And, indeed,
there is no man so far a stranger to himself, but if he, in sobriety and calmness, retire into
his own heart, the very evidence of the impurity of it will extort this confession from him.
As it useth to be said of an atheist, he feels that Divine majesty within his secret thoughts
and conscience which he denieth with his mouth, and he is often forced to tremble at the remembrance
of him whom he will not confess.(244) So if there be any so far bewitched and enchanted into
so gross and impudent a delusion, as to assert his own perfection and vacancy from sin, and
freedom from obligation to any divine command (as this time is fruitful of such monsters),
yet I dare be bold to say, that in the secret and quiet reflections on themselves, they find
that which they will not confess. Inwardly they feel what outwardly they deny, and cannot but
sometime or other be filled with horror and anguish in their consciences, by that inwardly
witnessing and checking principle, when God shall give it liberty to exercise its power over
them. The end of such will be, as of professed atheists. They pretend the securest contempt
and most fearless disregard of God, but then, when he awakes to judgment, or declares himself
in something extraordinary, they are subject to the most panic fears and terrors, because then
there is a party armed within against them, which they had disarmed in security, and kept in
chains. So, whensoever such men, of such high pretensions, and sublime professions, who love
to speak nothing but mysteries, and presume to such glorious discoveries of new lights of spiritual
mysteries; when these, I say, have flattered themselves for a season, in the monstrous exorbitant
conceit of their own perfection, and immunity from sin, and, it may be, deceived some others
too, when they have lived some time in this golden dream of innocency, the time will come,
either when the mighty hand of God is on them here, or when they must enter eternity, that
they shall awake, and find all their iniquities in battle array, mustered by the Lord of hosts,
in their conscience against themselves, and then they shall be the rarest examples of fear,
terror, and unbelief who pretended to the greatest confidence, clearness, and innocency. My
beloved, let us establish this as an infallible rule, to discern the spirits by, and to know
what religion is,—if it tend to glorify God, and abase man, to make him more humble, as well
as holy,—if it give the true and perfect discovery of God to man, and of man to himself,—that
is true religion and undefiled. But away with those sublime speculations, those winged and
airy mysteries, those pretensions to high discoveries and new lights, if they do not increase
that good old light of “humble walking with thy God” &c. If they tend to the loosing of the
obligation of divine commands on thee, if they ravish man so high that he seeth not himself
any more to be a poor, miserable, and darkened creature, certainly that is no fellowship with
the pure light, which is not continually the discovery and further manifestation of more sin
and darkness in us. For what is a man’s light in the dark night of this life, but the clearing
light of that darkness that is in man? And his holiness what is it, but the abhorring of himself
for that? It is true, something further is attained than the knowing of this, but it is always
so far short of that original pattern that the best way of expressing our conformity to it,
is by how much we apprehend our distance and deformity from it.

But, my beloved, this is not all that is here meant, nor must we take it so grossly, as if
this did only check the open professors of a sinless, spotless sanctity. Nay, certainly, there
is another way of saying this than by the tongue and many other ways of self deceiving than
that gross one, many more universal and more dangerous, because less discernible. There is
something of this that even true believers may fall into, and there is something of it more
common to the generality of professed Christians.

Among believers in Christ there is much difference in self judging, extreme contrarieties,
both between diverse persons and in one and the same, at diverse times. You know that some
are kept in the open view of their own sins and infirmities, and while they aim at holiness
they are wholly disabled to that worthy endeavour by their discouragements arising from the
apprehension of their own weakness and infinite short coming. Now to elevate and strengthen
such spirits, that word was seasonally cast in, “and the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from
all sin,” for it properly belongs to the comfort of such fainting souls, and it is all one
as if he had said, up and be doing, and the blood of Christ shall cleanse your evil doings.
He goeth not about to persuade them to have better thoughts of themselves, or lower apprehensions
of their sins but only to have higher and more suitable thoughts of Christ, and the virtue
of his blood, and this is the only cure,—not to abate from that low esteem of ourselves, but
to add to the esteem and grow in the lively apprehension of Christ. I would not counsel you
to think yourselves better, but to think better of him, that all your confidence may arise
from him.

Now there are others, (and it may be that same person at another time,—for the wind of temptation
veers about, and is sometimes in one corner, sometimes in an other,—our adversary useth many
stratagems, and will seem to flee before us, in yielding us the victory over our unbelief,
that he may in his flight return and throw some other dart upon us unawares,) when they have
attained any fervency of desires, and height of design after holiness and walking with God,
and this is seconded with any lively endeavours, and this confirmed and strengthened with those
presences of God, and accesses into the soul, that fill it with some sweetness,—then, I say,
they are ready to apprehend too highly of themselves, as if they had attained, and to look
below upon others with some disdain. Then there is not that present discovery of themselves,
that may intermingle humble mourning with it, but a kind of unequal measuring their attainments
by their desires, which in all true Christians are exceedingly mounted above themselves. Now,
indeed, this is in effect, and really to say, “we have no sin.” Herein is a delusion, a self
deceiving fancy, that begets too much self pleasing. Let us know where our stance is,(245)
infinitely below either our duty or our desire, and remind this often, that we may not be in
hazard to be drunk with self love and self deceit in this particular. Besides, are there not
many Christians who, having been once illuminated, and had some serious exercises in their
souls, both of sorrow for sin and fear of wrath and comfort by the gospel, and being accustomed
to some discharge of religious duties in private and public, sit down here, and have not mind
of further progress? They think, if they keep that stance, they are well, and so have few designs
or endeavours after more communion with God, or purification from sin. Now this makes them
degenerate to formality. They wither and become barren, and are exposed by this to many temptations
which overcome them. But, my beloved, is not this really and indeed to say, “we have no sin?”
Do not your walking and the posture of your spirits import so much, as if you had no sin to
wrestle with, no more holiness to aspire unto, as if ye had no further race to run to obtain
the crown? Do not deceive yourselves, by thinking it sufficient to have so much honesty and
grace, as in your opinion may put you over the black line, in irregeneration, as if ye would
seek no more than is precisely necessary for salvation. Truly, if ye be so minded, you give
a miserable hint, that you are not yet translated from the black side of darkness. I do not
say that all such are unconverted, but, if you continue thus, without stirring up yourselves
to a daily conversion and renovation, ye do too much to blot out the evidence of your conversion
and at length it may prove to some a self destroying deceit, when they shall find themselves
not passed over that line that passeth between heaven and hell, which they were studying to
find out, only that they might pass so far over it, as might keep their soul and hell asunder,
without earnest desires of advancement towards heaven in conformity to God. Now, for the generality
of professed Christians, though there be none who have that general confession of sin oftener
and more readily in their mouths, yet, I suppose, it is easy to demonstrate that there is much
of this self deceit in them, which declares that the truth is not in them. You know both God
and man construct(246) of men by their ways, not by their words, and the Lord may interpret
your hearts by their dispositions, and raise a collection of atheism out of all together. “The
fool hath said in his heart,” &c. Even so say I, many pretended Christians say in their heart,
“we have no sin.” How prove ye that? I seek nothing else to prove it, than your own ordinary
clearings and excusings of yourselves. Ye confess ye are sinners, and break all the commands,
yet come to particulars, and I know not one of twenty that will cordially or seriously take
with almost any sin. Yea, what you have granted in a general, you retract and deny it in all
the particulars, which declares both that even that which you seem to know, you are altogether
strangers to the real truth of it, and that you are over blinded with a fond love of yourselves.
I know not to what purposes your general acknowledgments are, but to be a mask or shadow to
deceive you, to be a blind to hide you from yourselves, since the most part of you, whensoever
challenged of any particular sin, or inclination to it, justify yourselves, and whenever ye
are put to a particular confession of your sins, you have all rapt up in such a bundle of confusion,
that you never know one sin by another. Certainly, ye deceive yourselves, and the truth is
not in you.

Let me add, moreover, another instance. Do you not so live, and walk in sin so securely, so
impenitently, as if you had no sin, no fear of God’s wrath? Do not the most part contentedly
and peaceably live in so much ignorance of the gospel, as if they had no need of Christ, and
so, by consequence, as if they had no sin? For if you did believe in the heart, and indeed
consider that your hearts are sinks of iniquity and impurity, would you not think it necessary
to apply to the Physician? And would you not then labour to know the Physician, and the gospel,
which is the report of him? Certainly, inasmuch as you take no pains for the knowledge of a
Saviour, you declare that you know not your sin, for if ye know the one, ye could not but search
to know the other. What is the voice of most men’s walking? Doth it not proclaim this, that
they think there is no sin in them? For if there be sin in you, is there not a curse upon you,
and wrath before you? And if you did really see the one, would you not see the other? And did
you see it, would it not drive you to more serious thoughts? Would it not affright you? Would
it not cause you often to retire into yourselves, and from the world? And, above all, how precious
would the tidings of a Saviour be, that now are common and contemptible? Would you not every
day wash in that blood? Would the current of repentance dry? But, forasmuch as you are not
exercised this way, give no thoughts nor time for reconcilement with God, walk without any
fear of hell, and without any earnest and serious study of changing your ways, and purifying
your hearts, in a word, though ye confess sin in the general, yet your whole carriage of heart
and ways declare so much, that you think it not a thing much to be feared, or that a man should
busy himself about it, that a man may live in it, and be well here and hereafter. And is not
this to deny the very nature of sin, and to deceive your own souls?

Sermon XVII. It is true, it is much diminished in a believer, and it runs not in such an universal
flood over the whole man as it is in the unbeliever. Yet there is a living spring of sin within
the godly, which is never ceasing to drop out pollution and defilement, either upon their whole
persons, or, at least, to intermingle it with their good actions. Now, there is no comfort
for this, but this one that there is another stream of the blood of Jesus Christ that never
dries up, is never exhausted, never emptied, but flows as full and as free, as clear and fresh
as ever it did, and this is so great, and of so great virtue, that it is able to swallow up
the stream of our pollutions, and to take away the daily filth of a believers conversation.
Now indeed, though the blood of Jesus Christ be of such infinite virtue and efficacy, that
it were sufficient to cleanse the sins of the whole world, it would be an over ransom for the
souls of all men, there is so much worth in it. That flood of guiltiness that hath drowned
the world,—this flood of Christ’s blood that gushed out of his side, is of sufficient virtue
to cleanse it perfectly away. Notwithstanding of this absolute universal sufficiency, yet certain
it is, that it is not actually applied unto the cleansing of all men’s sins, but yet the most
part of men are still drowned in the deluge of their own wickedness, and lie entombed in darkness;
therefore it concerns us to know the way of the application of this blood to the cleansing
of sinners, and this way is set down in this verse, “If we confess our sins, he is just to
forgive.” There was something hinted at obscurely in the preceding verse, for when he shows
that such as say they have no sin, who either, by the deposition of their hearts, or carriage
of their ways, do by interpretation say that they want sin, such deceive themselves, and the
truth is not in them, and so they have no benefit of that blood that cleanseth from all sin.
And so it is imported here, that though the blood of Christ be fully sufficient to cleanse
all sin, yet it is not so prostituted and basely spent upon sinners, as to be bestowed upon
them who do not know their sins, and never enter into any serious and impartial examination
of themselves. Such, though they say they are sinners, yet never descending into themselves
to search their own hearts and ways, and so never coming to the particular knowledge of their
sins, and feeling of them, they cannot at all make application of that blood to their own consciences,
either seriously or pertinently. Though the river and fountain of Christ’s blood run by them,
in the daily preaching of the gospel, yet being destitute of this daily self-inspection and
self-knowledge, being altogether ignorant of themselves, they can no more wash here than those
who never heard of this blood. They being strangers to themselves, sets them at as great distance
and estrangement from the blood of Christ, as if they were wholly strangers to the very preaching
of this blood. Let us, then, have this first established in our hearts,—that there is no cleansing
from sin, without the knowledge of sin, and there is no true knowledge of sin, without a serious
soul examination of sin. These are knit together in their own nature. For how should our sins
be pardoned, when we know nothing of them but in a confused generality that can never affect
the heart? How should our sins not be opened and discovered before the holiness of God, when
they are always covered unto us, and hid from our eyes? Certainly, the righteousness and wisdom
of God require, that such a monstrous thing, so great an enemy of God’s holiness, be not wholly
passed away in silence without observation. If we do not observe, he will, for to what purpose
should pardon be so lavished upon them who are not capable of knowing what favour and grace
is in it? And certainly, that none can know without the feeling knowledge of the height and
heinousness of sin. Now, I pray you, how should you know your sins, when you will not allow
any time for the searching of yourselves? Many cannot say, that ever they did purposely and
deliberately withdraw from the world, and separate their spirits for this business of self
examination, and therefore you remain perpetually strangers to yourselves, and as great strangers
to the power and virtue of this blood.

Now, in this verse, he declares it plainly in what way and method sin is pardoned by this blood.
By the former verse, we have so much, that it is necessary we must search and try our ways,
that so we may truly know our sins, and charge them upon ourselves, and here it is superadded,
that we must confess them to him: and the promise is annexed, “he is just and faithful to forgive.”
Now, this confession of sin is very fitly subjoined, both to that which he declared of that
great end of that gospel,—communion with God,—and that which was immediately holden forth of
the remaining virtue of Christ’s blood. For might a poor soul say, How shall I come to partake
of that blessed society? I am a sinner, and so an enemy to God, how shall this enmity be removed?
And if the answer be made, “The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin,” and so maketh
access for a sinner to enter into this society, yet a question remains, and how shall the virtue
of that be applied to my soul? It is sufficient, I know, for all, but what way may I have the
particular benefit of it? Here it is fully satisfied, “if we confess our sins, God is just
and faithful to forgive.” He lieth under some obligation to pardon us. Now, many of you may
think, if this be the way, and these be the terms of pardon, then we hope all shall be pardoned,
for if there be no more but to confess our sins, who will not willingly do that, and who doth
not daily do it? As one said, “if it be sufficient to accuse, none will be innocent,” si accusasse
sufficiat, nemo innocens erit; so you may think, si confileri sufficiat, nemo reus erit, “if
it be sufficient to confess, none will be guilty.” But, my beloved, let us not deceive ourselves
with the present first apprehensions of words that occur in this kind. It is true, as ye take
confession, there is nothing more ordinary, but, if it be taken in the true scripture meaning,
and in the realest sense, I fear there is nothing among men so extraordinary. I desire you
may but consider how you take this word in your dealings with men,—you take it certainly in
a more real sense than you use it in religion. If any had done you some great wrong or injury,
suppose your servant, or inferior, what acknowledgment would you take from him of his wrong?
If he confessed his wrong only in general ambiguous terms, if he did it either lightly, or
without any sense or sorrow for it, if he did withal excuse and extenuate his fault, and never
ceased, notwithstanding of all his confession, to do the like wrong when occasion offered,
would you not think this a mockery, and would it not rather provoke you than pacify you? Now,
when you take words in so real and deep significations in your own matters, what gross delusion
is it, that you take them in the slightest and emptiest meaning in those things that relate
to God? And I am sure the most part of men’s confessions are of that nature which I have described,—general,
ignorant, senseless, without any particular view, or lively feeling, of the vileness and loathsomeness
of sin, and their own hearts. Whenever it comes to particulars, there is a multitude of extenuations
and pretences to hide and cover the sin, and generally men never cease the more from sinning.
It puts no stop in their running, as the horse to the battle. Today they confess it, and tomorrow
they act it again with as much delight as before. Now, of this I may say, “Offer it to thy
governor, and see if he will be pleased with thee,” or let another offer such an acknowledgment
of wrong to thee, and see if it will please thee, and if it will not, why deceive ye yourselves
with the outward visage of things in these matters that are of greatest soul-concernment? Should
they not be taken in the most inward and substantial signification that can be, lest you be
deceived with false appearances, and, while you give but a shadow of confession, you receive
but a shadow of forgiveness, such a thing as will not carry and bear you out before God’s tribunal?
Therefore we must needs take it thus, that confession of sin is the work of the whole man,
and not of the mouth only. It is the heart, tongue, and all that is in a man, joining together
to the acknowledgment of sin, and God’s righteousness, therefore it includes in it, not only
a particular knowledge of our offences, and the temper of our hearts, but a sensible feeling
of the loathsomeness and heinousness of these.  And this is the spring that it flows from,—a
broken and contrite heart that is bruised under the apprehensions of the weight of guiltiness,
and is embittered with the sense of the gall of iniquity that possesseth the heart.  Here,
then, is the great moment of confession and repentance, what is the inward fountain it flows
from? If the heart be brought to the distinct and clear view of itself and to discern the iniquity
and plague of it, and so to fall down under the mighty hand of God, and before his tribunal,
as guilty, as not being able or willing to open his mouth in an excuse or extenuation of sin
or to plead for compassion from any consideration in himself, a soul thus placed between iniquities
set in order and battle array, on the one hand, and the holy law and righteousness of God,
on the other hand, the filthiness of the one filling with shame and confusion, and the dreadfulness
of the other causing fear and trembling, in this posture, I say, for a soul to come and fall
at the Judge’s feet, and make supplication to him in his Son Christ, thus being inwardly pressed
to vent and pour out our hearts before him, in the confession of our sins, and to flee unto
the city of refuge,—his mercy and grace that is declared in Jesus Christ,—this, I say, is indeed
to confess our sins, for then confession is an exoneration and disburdening of the heart,—it
flows from the abundance of the inward contrition of it.  And as this must be the spring of
it, so there is another stream that will certainly flow from the ingenuous confession of our
sins that is, a forsaking of them.  These are the two streams that flow from one head and spring
the inward fountain of contrition and sorrow for sin there is a holy indignation kindled in
the heart against sin, and an engagement upon such a soul, as indeed flees to mercy, to renounce
sin, and here is the complete nature of true repentance.  Solomon joins them, “He that confesseth
and forsaketh shall have mercy,” Prov. xxviii. 13.  And this is opposed to covering of sins—for
“he that covereth his sins shall not prosper.” And what is that to cover his sin?  Confessing
them in a general confused notion, without any distinct knowledge or sense of any particular
guiltiness? That is a covering of sins.  Or confessing sin and not forsaking of it? That is
a covering of sin for to act sin over again with continual fresh delight and vigour, is to
retract our confessions and to bury and cover them with the mould of new transgressions.  Now,
take this unto you, you “shall not prosper.”  What can be said worse?  For you are but in a
dream of happiness, and you shall one day be shaken out of it, and that fancied pardon shall
evanish, and then your sins that you covered in this manner, shall be discovered before the
Judge or the world, and you “shall not stand in judgment.”

Sermon XVIII.  That there is, first, an expiation of sin by the blood of Jesus Christ, that
a way is laid down of reconciling the world, and that by the blood of the cross, that peace
is purchased and so preached unto sinners, as a thing already procured, and now only to be
applied unto the soul by faith,—herein doth the estimable riches of the grace of God expose
itself to the view of angels and men. That the great work of redemption is ended, ere it come
to us, and there remains nothing, but to publish it to the world, and invite us to come and
receive it, and have a part in it,—all is ready, the feast prepared, and set on the table,
and there wants nothing but guests to eat of it, and these are daily called by the gospel to
come to this table, which the wisdom of the Father hath prepared for us, without either our
knowledge or concurrence. Besides, the very terms of proposing the gospel, speak forth absolute
freedom. What can be more free and easy than this? Christ is sent to die for sinners, and to
redeem them from the curse,—only receive him, come to him, and believe in him. He hath undertaken
to save, only do you consent too, and give up your name to him,—ye have nothing to do to satisfy
justice, or purchase salvation, only be willing that he do it for you, or rather acquiesce
in that he hath done already, and rest on it. But how shall our sins be pardoned, and justice
satisfied? Only confess your sins to him, and ye are forgiven, not for your confession, but
for Christ, only acknowledge thine iniquity and wrongs, and he hath taken another way to repair
his justice than by thy destruction and condemnation. He is so far from extending his justice
against thee, that he is rather engaged upon his faithfulness and justice to forgive thee,
because of his promise.

Yet, ye would not conceive so of this manner of proposal of forgiveness and salvation, as if
the requiring of such a thing as repentance in thee were any derogation from the absoluteness
of his grace for it is not required, either to the point of satisfaction to God’s justice,
and expiation of sin, for that is done already upon the cross. Christ was not offered to save
sinners, he was not sent upon the previous condition of their repentance nay, “while we were
yet enemies, Christ died for the ungodly.” So that to the business of our redemption there
was no concurrence upon our part nor influence upon it by our carriage, for he considered us
as sinners, and miserable, and so saved us. And now, to the actual application of these preventing
mercies,—it is true, it is needful in the wise and reasonable dispensation of God, that sinners
be brought to the knowledge and sensible acknowledgment of their sin and misery, and so be
upon rational inducements of misery within, and mercy without, of self-indigency, and Christ’s
sufficiency, be drawn unto Jesus Christ, and so to a partaking of those purchased privileges
of forgiveness of sin, peace with God, &c. I say, all this is so far from diminishing a jot
of that absolute freedom of grace, that it rather jointly proclaims the riches of grace and
wisdom both, that repentance should be given to an impenitent sinner, and faith freely bestowed
on an unbelieving sinner, and withal, that remission and salvation, together with faith and
repentance, should be brought to us by his death, while we were yet enemies,—this doth declare
the most unparalleled bounty and grace that the heart of man can imagine, and withal, that
remission of sins is joined to confession, and salvation to faith, herein the wisdom of God
triumphs, for what way is it possible to declare that freedom of grace, to the sensible conviction
of a sinner, and so to demonstrate it to all men’s consciences, except by making them return
within, to see their own absolute unworthiness, vileness, and incorrespondency to such mercies,
and so drawing an acknowledgment of his grace from the mouths and consciences of all? How shall
a soul know that rich superabundant grace, if he know not the abundance of his sins? How shall
he profess the one, except he withal confess the other? Let us imagine an impenitent sinner,
continuing in rebellion, pardoned and forgiven: and is there any thing more contrary to common
sense and reason, to be in God’s favour, and yet not accepting that favour, to be a friend,
and yet an enemy, to have sins forgiven, and yet not known, not confessed? These, I say, sound
some plain dissonancy and discord to our very first apprehensions.  Certainly, this is the
way to declare the glory of his grace, in the hiding and covering of sin, even to discover
sin to the sinner, else if God should hide sin, and it be hid withal from the conscience, both
thy sin and God’s grace should be hid and covered, neither the one nor the other would appear.
Take it thus then,—the confession of sin is not for this end, to have any casual influence
upon thy remission, or to procure any more favour and liking with God, but it is simply this,
the confession of sin is the most accommodate way of the profession and publication of the
grace of God in the forgiving of sins. Faith and repentance are not set down as conditions
pre-required on thy part, that may procure salvation or forgiveness, but they are inseparably
annexed unto salvation and forgiveness, to the end that they may manifest to our sensible conviction,
that grace and freedom of grace which shines in forgiveness and salvation.

“He is just and faithful,” &c.  Herein is the wonder of the grace of God increased, that when
we are under an obligation to infinite punishment for sin, and bound guilty before his justice,
that the “most great and potent Lord” who can easily rid himself of all his enemies, and do
all his pleasure in heaven and earth, should come under an obligation to man to forgive him
his sins.  A strange exchange! Man is standing bound by the cords of his own sins over the
justice of God,—he is under that insoluble tie of guiltiness.  God in the meantime is free,
and loosed from the obligation of the first covenant, that is, his promise of giving life to
man.  We have loosed him from that voluntary engagement, and are bound under a curse.  And
yet, behold the permutation of grace,—man is loosed from sin, to which he is bound, and God
is bound to forgive sin, to which he was not bound. He enters into a new and voluntary engagement
by his promise, and gives right to poor creatures to sue and seek forgiveness of him, according
to his faithfulness. Yet in this plea, as it becomes us to use confidence, because he gives
us ground by his promises, so we should season it with humility, knowing how infinitely free
and voluntary his condescension is, being always mindful, that he may in righteousness exact
punishment of us for sin, rather than we seek forgiveness from him.  And yet seek it we ought,
because he hath engaged his faithful promise, which opportunity to neglect, and not to improve,
either through fear or security, were as high contempt and disobedience to him, as those sins
by which we offend him.

Certainly, the very name of God, revealed to us or known by nature’s light, those general characters
of his name, mercy and goodness, power and greatness, might suffice to so much, as to make
us, in the apprehensions of our own guiltiness and provocations of his holiness, to look no
other way than to his own merciful and gracious nature.  Suppose we had nothing of a promise
from him, by which he is bound, yet, as the very apprehension of the general goodness, and
unlimited bounty, and original happiness that is in God, ought naturally to draw the creature
towards him in all its wants, to supplicate his fulness, that can supply all necessities, without
lessening his own abundance, even so, if we did only apprehend that God is the fountain of
mercy, and that he is infinitely above us and our injuries, and that all our being and well
being eternally consists in his sole favour, this, I say, alone considered, might draw us to
a pouring out our hearts before him, in the acknowledgment of our guiltiness, and casting ourselves
upon his mercy, as the term is used in war, when there is no quarter promised, and no capitulation
made.  It is the last refuge of a desperate sinner, to render unto God upon mercy, to resign
himself to his free disposal.  Since I cannot but perish, may a soul say, without him, there
is no way of escaping from his wrath, I will rather venture, and “go in to the King, and if
I perish, I perish.” There is more hope in this way to come to him, than to flee from him.
Perhaps he may show an act of absolute sovereign goodness, and be as glorious in passing by
an offence, as just in punishing it.  Do I not see in man, in whom the divine Majesty hath
imprinted some characters of conscience and honesty, that it is more generous and noble to
forgive than to revenge?  And do I not see generally among men, clemency and compassion are
commended above severity and rigour, though just, especially towards those who are inferior,
weak, unable to resist, and have yielded themselves to mercy.  Now, shall I not much more apprehend
that of God which I admire in a sinful man?  Shall not that be most perfect in him which is
but a maimed and broken piece of his image in lost man?  Certainly, it is the glory of God
to conceal an offence as well as to publish it, and he can show as much greatness and majesty
in mercy as in justice, therefore I will wholly commit myself to him.  I think a man ought
to reason so, from the very natural knowledge he hath of God.  But when ye have not only his
name and nature published, but his word and promise so often proclaimed, himself come under
some tie to receive and accept graciously all sinners that fly in under the shadow of his wings
of mercy, then, O with how much persuasion and boldness should we come to him, and lay open
our sins before him, who not only may pardon them, and not only is likely to do it, seeing
he hath a gracious nature, but certainly will pardon them, cannot but do it, because his faithfulness
requireth it! Certainly, he hath superadded his word to his name, his promise to his nature,
to confirm our faith, and give us ample ground of strong consolation.

There is another more suitable notion about the justice of God, in forgiving sin. It hath some
truth in the thing itself, but whether it be imported here, I dare not certainly affirm. Some
take his faithfulness in relation to his word of promise, and his justice in relation to the
price and ransom paid by Christ, importing as much as this—whatever sinner comes to God in
Christ, confessing his own guiltiness in sincerity, and supplicating for pardon, he cannot
in justice refuse to give it out unto them, since he hath taken complete satisfaction of Christ.
When a sinner seeks a discharge of all sin, by virtue of that blood, the Lord is bound by his
own justice to give it out and to write a free remission to them, since he is fully paid, he
cannot but discharge us, and cancel our bonds. So then a poor sinner that desires mercy, and
would forsake sin, hath a twofold ground to suit(247) this forgiveness upon—Christ’s blood,
and God’s own word, Christ’s purchase and payment, and the Father’s promise, he is just and
righteous, and therefore he cannot deny the one, nor yet take two satisfactions, two payments
for one debt, and he is faithful, so he cannot but stand to the other, that is, his promise,
and thus is forgiveness ascertained and assured unto the confessing sinner. If any would take
this in relation to confession, as if it reflected upon that which preceded, and the meaning
should be, if any man confess his sin, he is just to requite confession with remission,—he
cannot in righteousness deny one that deserves it, he is just to return some suitable recompense
to such a humble confession, this sense were a perverting of the whole gospel, and would overturn
the foundations of grace. For there is no connection between our confession and his remission
but that which the absolute good pleasure of his will hath made, besides, that repentance is
as free grace given from the exalted Prince, as remission of sins is.

Sermon XIX. Who doth not confess sins daily, and, therefore, who is not forgiven and pardoned?
But stay, and consider the matter again. Take not this upon your first light apprehensions,
which in religion are commonly empty, vain, and superficial, but search the scriptures, and
your own hearts that ye may know what confession means. It may be said of that external custom
of confession that many of you have, that the Lord hath not required it,—“sacrifices and burnt
offerings thou wouldest not.” Some external submissions and confessions, which you take for
compensation for sins and offences against God,—these, I say, are but abomination to the Lord,
but “a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise,” Psal. li. 16, 17. And, “Lo,
I come to do thy will, I delight in it,” Psal. xl. 7, 8. When external profession and confessions
are separated from the internal contrition of the heart and godly sorrow for sin, and when
both internal contrition and external profession and confession are divided from conformity,
or study of conformity to God’s will, then they are in no better acceptance with God than those
external sacrifices which God rejected, though he had required them, because they were disjoined
from the true life of them and spiritual meaning, that is, faith in a mediator, and love to
obedience. If confession flow not from some contrition of heart if there be not some inward
spring of this kind, the heart, opened and unfolding its very inside before God, breaking in
pieces, which makes both pain or sense, and likewise gives the clearer view of the inward parts
of the heart, and if it be not joined with affection to God’s will and law, earnest love to
new obedience, it is but a vain, empty, and counterfeit confession, that denies itself. I suppose,
a man that confesses sin which he feels not, or forsakes not, in so doing, he declares that
he knows not the nature of sin; he may know that such an action is commonly called sin, and,
it may be, is ashamed and censured among men, and therefore he confesseth it; but while he
confesseth it without sense or feeling, he declares that he takes it not up as sin, hath not
found the vileness and loathsomeness of the nature of it nor beheld it as it is a violation
of the most high Lord’s laws, and a provocation of his glorious holiness. Did a soul view it
thus, as it is represented in God’s sight, as it dishonours that glorious Majesty, and hath
manifest rebellion in it against him, and as it defiles and pollutes our spirits; he could
not, I say, thus look upon it, but he would find some inward soul abhorrence and displeasance
at it, and himself too. How monstrous would it make him in his own sight? It could not but
affect the heart, and humble it in secret before God; whereas your forced and strained confessions
made in public, they are merely taken on then, and proceed from no inward principle. There
is no shadow of any soul humiliation, in secret, but as some use to put on sackcloth when they
come to make that profession, and put it off when they go out, so you put on a habit of confession
in public, and put it off you when you go out of the congregation. To be mourning before the
Lord, in your secret retirements,—that you are strangers to. But I wonder how you should thus
mock God, that you will not be as serious and real in confessing as in sinning. Will you sin
with the whole man, and confess only with the mouth? Will ye not sin with delight, and not
confess it with a true sorrow that indeed affects the heart? Now, do you honour God by confessing,
when the manner of it declares, that you feel not the bitterness of sin, and conceive not the
holiness and righteousness of God, whom you have to do withal? Even so, when you confess sin,
which you do not forsake, you in so far declare that you know not sin, what it is you confess,
and so, that you have mocked him who will not be mocked; for, what a mockery is it, to confess
those faults which we have no solid effectual purpose to reform, to vomit up your sins by confession,
that we may with more desire and lust lick up the vomit again, and to pretend to wash, for
nothing else, but to return to the puddle, and defile again! My brethren, out of the same fountain
comes not bitter water and sweet; James iii. 11. Since that which ordinarily proceeds from
you is bitter, unsavoury to God and man, carnal, earthly, and sensual, your ways are a displayed
banner against God’s will, then lay your account, all your professions and acknowledgments
are of the same nature,—they are but a little more sugared over, and their inward nature is
not changed, is as unacceptable to God, as your sins are.

I would give you some characters out of the text, to discover unto you the vanity and emptiness
of your ordinary confessions. The confession of sin must be particular, universal, perpetual,
or constant;—particular, I say, for there are many thousands who confess that they are sinners,
and yet do not at all confess their sins; for, to confess sins is to confess their own real
actual guiltiness, that which they indeed have committed or are inclined to do. So the true
and sincere confession of a repenting people is expressed, 1 Kings viii. 38, “What prayer or
supplication soever be made by any man, which shall know the plague of his own heart, and spread
forth his hands, then hear thou in heaven, and forgive every man whose heart thou knowest.”
Now consider whether or not you be thus acquainted with your own hearts and ways, as to know
your particular plague and predominant sin. Are you not rather wholly strangers to yourselves,
especially the plague of your hearts? There are few that keep so much as a record or register
of their actions done against God’s law, or their neglect of his will; and therefore, when
you are particularly posed about your sins, or the challenge of sin, you can speak nothing
to that, but that you never knew one sin by another; that is, indeed, you never observed your
sins, you never knew any sin, but contented yourself with the tradition you received that you
were sinners. But if any man be used to reflect upon his own ways,—yet generally, the most
part of men are altogether strangers to their hearts,—if they know any evil of themselves it
is at most but something done or undone, some commission or omission, but nothing of the inward
fountain of sin is discovered. I beseech you, then, do not deceive yourselves with this general
acknowledgment that you are sinners, while in the meantime your real particular sins are hid
from you, and you cannot choose but hide in a generality from God. Certainly, you are far from
forgiveness, and that blessedness of which David speaks, (Psal. xxxii.) for this belongs to
the man “that hideth not his sins, in whose heart there is no guile.” And this is the plainness
and sincerity of the heart, rightly to discern its own plagues, and unfold them to him. David,
no doubt, would at any time have confessed that he was a sinner, but mark how heavy the wrath
of God was on him for all that, because he came not to a plain, ingenuous, and humble acknowledgment
of his particular sins. “I confessed my sin, and mine iniquity I hid not.” While you confess
only in general terms, you confess other’s sins rather than yours, but this is it—to descend
into our own hearts, and find out our just and true accusation, our real debt, to charge ourselves
as narrowly as we can, that he may discharge us fully, and forgive us freely.

Next, I say, confession must be universal, that is, of all sin, without partiality or respect
to any sin. I doubt if a man can truly repent of any sin, except he in a manner repent of all
sin; or truly forsake one sin, except there be a divorcement of the heart from and forsaking
of all sin; therefore the apostle saith, “If we confess our sins,” not sin simply, but sins,
taking in all the body and collection of them, for it is opposed to that, “if we say we have
no sin,” &c. Then there lies a necessity upon us to confess what we have; we have all sin,
and so should confess all sins. Now, my meaning is not, that it is absolutely necessary that
a soul come to the particular knowledge and acknowledgment of all his sins, whether of ignorance
or infirmity, nay, that is not possible, for “who can understand his errors?” saith David,
“cleanse thou me from secret sins,” Psal. xix. 12. There are many sins of ignorance, that we
know not to be sins, and many escapes of infirmity, that we do not advert to, which otherwise
we might know. Now, I do not impose that burden on a soul, to confess every individual sin
of that kind; but this certainly must be,—there must be such a discovery of the nature of sin,
and the loathsomeness of it in God’s sight, and the heinous guilt of it, as may abase and humble
the soul in his presence, there must be some distincter and clearer view of the dispositions
and lusts of the heart, than men attain generally unto, and, withal, a discovery of the holy
and spiritual meaning of God’s law, which may unfold a multitude of transgressions, that are
hid from the world, and make sin to abound in a man’s sight and sense—for when the law enters,
sin abounds, and to close up this, as there are many sins now discovered unto such a soul,
which lay hid before, the light having shined in upon the darkness, and, above all, the desperate
wickedness of the heart is presented, so there is no sin known and discerned, but there is
an equal impartial sorrow for it, and indignation against it. As a believer hath respect to
all God’s commands, and loves to obey them, so the penitent soul hath an impartial hatred of
all sin, even the dearest and most beloved idol, and desires unfeignedly to be rid of it. Hence
your usual public confessions of sin are wiped out of the number of true and sincere confessions,
because you pretend to repent of one sin, and in the meantime, neither do ye know a multitude
of other sins that prevail over you, nor do you mourn for them, nor forsake them. Nay, you
do not examine yourselves that way, to find out the temper of your hearts, or tenor and course
of your ways. You pretend to repent for drunkenness, or such like, and yet you are ordinary
cursers, swearers, liars, railers, neglecters of prayer, profaners of the Sabbath, and such
like, and these you do not withal mourn for. In sum, he that mourns only for the sin that men
censure, knoweth and confesseth no sin sincerely. If you would indeed return unto God from
some gross evils, you must be divorced in your affections from all sin.

Then this confession should be perpetuated and continued as long as we are in this life, for
that is imported by comparing this verse with those it stands between. “If we say we have no
sin, if we say at any time, while we are in this life, if we imagine or dream of any such perfection
here,” we lie. Now, what should we do then, since sin is always lodging in our mortal bodies,
during this time of necessary abode beside an ill neighbour? What should be our exercise? Even
this,—confess your sins, confess, I say, as long as you have them, draw out this the length
of that. Be continually groaning to him under that body of death, and mourning under your daily
infirmities and failings. That stream of corruption runs continually—let the stream of your
contrition and confession run as incessantly, and there is another stream of Christ’s blood,
that runs constantly too, to cleanse you. Now, herein is the discovery of the vanity and deceitfulness
of many of your confessions, public and private, the current of them soon dries up, there is
no perpetuity or constancy in them, no daily humbling or abasing yourselves, but all that is,
is by fits and starts upon some transient convictions or outward censures and rebukes, and
thus men quickly cover and bury their sins in oblivion and security and forget what manner
of persons they were. They are not under a duly impartial examination of their ways, take notice
of nothing but some solemn and gross escapes, and these are but a short time under their view.

Now, let me apply a little to the encouragement of poor souls, who being inwardly burdened
with the weight of their own guiltiness, exoner themselves by confession in his bosom. As you
have two suits, and two desires to him,—one, that your sins may be forgiven, another, that
they may be subdued, so he hath two solemn engagements and ties to satisfy you,—one to forgive
your sins, and another to cleanse you from all unrighteousness. The soul that is truly penitent,
is not only desirous of pardon of sin—that is not the chief or only design of such a soul in
application to Christ,—but it is withal to be purified from sin and all unrighteousness, and
to have ungodly lusts cleansed away. And herein is the great application of such an one’s reality,—it
will not suffice or satisfy such an one, to be assured of delivery from wrath and condemnation,
but he must likewise be redeemed from sin, that it hath no dominion over him. He desires to
be freed from death, that he may have his conscience withal purged “from dead works to serve
the living God,” Heb. ix. 14. He would have sin blotted out of an accusing conscience, that
it may be purged out of the affections of the heart, and he would have his sins washed away,
for this end especially, that he may be washed from his sins, Rev. i. 5. Now, as this is the
great desire and design of such a heart, in which there is no guile, to have sin purified and
purged out of us as well as pardoned, so there is a special tie and obligation upon God our
Father, by promise, not only to pardon sin, but to purge from sin, not only to cover it with
the garment of Christ’s righteousness, and the breadth of his infinite love but also to cleanse
it by his Spirit effectually applying that blood to the purifying of the heart. Now, where
God hath bound himself voluntarily, and out of love, do not ye lose him by unbelief, for that
will bind you into a prison: but labour to receive those gracious promises, and to take him
bound as he offers. Believe, I say that he will both forgive you, and in due time will cleanse
your heart from the love and delight of sin. Believe his promise, and engagement by promise
to both and this will set a seal to his truth and faithfulness. There is nothing in God to
affright a sinner, but his justice, holiness, and righteousness, but unto thee who, in the
humble confession of thy sins, fliest into Jesus Christ, that very thing which did discourage
thee, may now encourage and embolden thee to come, for “he is just and faithful to forgive
sins.” His justice being now satisfied, is engaged that way to forgive, not to punish.

Sermon XX.

    1 John i. 10.—“If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a
    liar, and his word is not in us.”

There is nothing in which religion more consists than in the true and unfeigned knowledge of
ourselves. The heathens supposed that sentence, γνωθι σεατον “Know thyself,” descended from
heaven. It was indeed the motto of the wisest and most religious amongst them. But certain
it is, that the true and sincere understanding of ourselves descends from “the Father of lights,”
and is as great a gift as man is capable of, next to the knowledge of God himself. There is
nothing more necessary to man, either as a man or as a Christian, either as endowed with reason
or professing religion, than that he should be thoroughly acquainted with himself, his own
heart, its dispositions, inclinations, and lusts, his ways and actions, that while he travels
abroad to other creatures and countries, he may not commit so shameful an absurdity, as to
be a stranger at home, where he ought to be best acquainted. Yet how sad is it, that this which
is so absolutely needful and universally profitable, should be lying under the manyest difficulties
in the attainment of it? So that there is nothing harder, than to bring a man to a perfect
understanding of himself:—what a vile, haughty, and base creature he is—how defiled and desperately
wicked his nature—how abominable his actions, in a word, what a compound of darkness and wickedness
he is—a heap of defiled dust, and a mass of confusion—a sink of impiety and iniquity, even
the best of mankind, those of the rarest and most refined extraction, take them at their best
estate. Thus they are as sepulchres painted without, and putrified within—outwardly adorned,
and within all full of rottenness and corruption, “the imagination of his heart only evil continually.”
Now, I say, here is the great business and labour of religion,—to bring a man to the clear
discerning of his own nature,—to represent unto him justly his own image, as it is painted
in the word of God, and presented in the glass of the law, and so by such a surprising monstrous
appearance, to affect his heart to self abhorrency in dust and ashes and to have this representation,
however unpleasant, yet most profitable, continually observant to our minds, that we may not
forget what manner of persons we are. Truly I may say, if there be a perfection in this estate
of imperfection, herein it consists, and if there be any attainment of a Christian, I account
this the greatest,—to be truly sensible of himself, and vile in his own eyes.

It was the custom of Philip,(248) king of Macedonia, after he had overcome the famous republic
of Greece, to have a young man to salute him first every morning with these words, Philippe
homo es,—Philip, thou art a man, to the end that he might be daily minded of his mortality,
and the unconstancy of human affairs, lest he should be puffed up with his victory, and this
was done before any could have access to speak with him, as if it were to season and prepare
him for the actions of the day. But O how much more ought a Christian to train up his own heart
and accustom it this way, to be his continual remembrancer of himself, to suggest continually
to his mind, and whisper this first into his ear in the morning, and mid day, and evening,—peccator
es, thou art a sinner, to hold our own image continually before us, in prayer and praises,
in restraints, in liberties of spirit, in religious actions, and in all our ordinary conversation,
that it might salt and season all our thoughts, words and deeds, and keep them from that ordinary
putrefaction and corruption of pride and self conceit, which maketh all our ointment stink.

“If we say we have no sin, we make him a liar.” Why is this repeated again, but to show unto
us, even to you Christians who believe in Christ, and are washed in his blood, how hard it
is to know ourselves aright? If we speak of the grosser sort of persons, they scarce know any
sin, nor the nature and vileness of any that they know, therefore they live in security and
peace, and bless themselves in their own hearts, as if they had no sin. For such, I say, I
shall only say unto them, that your self deceiving is not so subtile, but it may soon be discerned;
your lie is gross, and quickly seen through. But I would turn myself to you Christians, who
are in some measure acquainted with yourselves, yet there is something against you from this
word. After ye have once got some peace from the challenge of sin, and hope of pardon, you
many times fall out of acquaintance with yourselves. Having attained, by the Lord’s grace,
to some restraint of the more visible outbreakings of sin, you have not that occasion to know
yourselves by, and so you remain strangers to your hearts, and fall into better liking with
yourselves, than the first sight of yourselves permitted you. Now, my beloved in the Lord,
herein you are to be blamed, that you do not rather go to the fountain, and there behold the
streams, than only to behold the fountain in the streams. You ought rather, upon the Lord’s
testimony of man, to believe what is in you, before you find it, and see it breaking out; and
keep this character continually in your sight, which will be more powerful to humble you than
many outbreakings. I think we should be so well acquainted with our own natures, as to account
nothing strange to them that we see abroad, but rather think all the grossness and wickedness
of men suitable and correspondent to our spirits,—to that root of bitterness that is in them.
The goodness of God in restraining the appearance of that in us, which is within us in reality,
should rather increase the sense of our own wickedness, than diminish it in our view.

Indeed, self love is that which blinds us, and bemists us in the sight of ourselves. We look
upon ourselves through this false medium, and it represents all things more beautiful than
they are, and therefore the apostle hath reason to say, “We deceive ourselves, and we make
God a liar.” O how much practical self-conceit is there in the application of truth! There
are many errors contrary to the truths themselves, and many deceivers and deceived, who spread
them, but I believe there are more errors committed by men in the application of truths to
their own hearts, than in the contemplation of them, and more self deceiving than deceiving
of others. It is strange to think, how sound, and clear, and distinct a man’s judgment will
be against those evils in others, which yet he seeth not in himself, how many Christians will
be able to decipher the nature of some vices, and unbowel the evils of them, and be quick-sighted
to espy the least appearance of them in another, and to condemn it, and yet so partial are
they in judging themselves,—self-love so purblinds them in this reflection, that they cannot
discern that in themselves, which others cannot but discern! How often do men declaim against
pride, and covetousness, and self-seeking, and other evils of that kind? They will pour out
a flood of eloquence and zeal against them, and yet it is strange they do not advert, that
they are accusing themselves, and impannelling themselves in such discourses, though others,
it may be, will easily perceive a predominancy of these evils in them. “Who art thou, O man,
who judgeth another, and doest the same thing? Canst thou escape God’s judgment?” Rom. ii.
1. Consider this, O Christian, that thou mayest learn to turn the edge of all thy censures
and convictions against thyself, that thou mayest prevent all men’s judgments of thee, in judging
thyself all things that men can judge thee, that is, a chief of sinners, that hath the root
of all sin in thee, and so thou mayest anticipate the divine judgment too, “for if we judge
ourselves, we shall not be judged.” Labour thou to know those evils that are incident to thy
nature, before others can know them, that is, in the root and fountain, before they come to
the fruit and stream, to know sins in the first conceptions of them, before they come to such
productions as are visible, and this shall keep thee humble, and preserve thee from much sin,
and thou shalt not deceive thyself, nor dishonour God, in making him a liar, but rather set
to thy seal to this truth, and his word shall abide in thee.

There is a common rule that we have in judging ourselves, by comparing ourselves amongst ourselves,
which, as Paul saith, “is not wisdom,” 2 Cor. x. 12. When we do not measure ourselves by the
perfect rule of God’s holy word, but parallel ourselves with other persons, who are still defective
from the rule, far further from it than anyone is from another, this is the ordinary method
of the judging of self love. We compare with the worst persons, and if we be not so bad as
they, we think ourselves good. If not so ignorant as some are, we presume that we know, if
not so profane as many, we believe ourselves religious. “Lord, I am not as this publican,”
so say many in their hearts,—there is a curser, a swearer, a drunkard, a blind ignorant soul,
that neglects prayer in private and public, and upon these ruins of others’ sins, they build
some better estimation of themselves. But, I pray you, what will that avail you, to be unlike
them, if you be more unlike your pattern than they are unlike you? It must be, others will
compare with those that are good, but it is with that which is worst in them, and not that
which is best. How often do men reckon this way,—here is a good man, here is an eminent person,
yet he is such and such, subject to such infirmities, and here self-love flatters itself, and,
by flattering, deceives itself. My beloved, let us learn to establish a more perfect rule,
which may show all our imperfections. Let our rule ascend, that our hearts may descend in humility.
But when our role and pattern descends to men of like infirmities, then our pride and self
conceit ascends, and the higher we be that way in our own account, the lower we are indeed,
and in God’s account, and the lower we be in ourselves we lose nothing by it; for, as God is
higher in our account, so we are higher in God’s account, according to that standing rule,
Matth. xxiii. 12, “Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble
himself shall be exalted.”

Sermon XXI.

    1 John ii. If
you have it not altogether by the divine lot, you cannot truly have any
part of it, for they are so knit together, that if you disjoin them, you
destroy them, and if they cease to be together, they cease altogether to
be. I speak this, because there may be pretensions to some abstracted
parts of Christianity. One man pretends to faith in Jesus Christ, and
persuasion of pardon of sin, and in this there may be some secret glorying
arising from that confidence, another may pretend to the study of holiness
and obedience, and may endeavour something that way to do known duties,
and abstain from gross sins. Now, I say, if the first do not conjoin the
study of the second, and if the second do not lay down the first as the
foundation, both of them embrace a shadow for the thing itself, because
they separate those things that God hath joined, and so can have no being
but in men’s fancy, when they are not conjoined. He that would pretend to
a righteousness of Christ, without him, must withal study to have the
righteousness of the law fulfilled within him, and he that endeavours to
have holiness within must withal go out of himself, to seek a
righteousness without him, whereupon to build his peace and acceptance
with God, or else, neither of them hath truly any righteousness without
them, to cover them, or holiness within, to cleanse them. Now, here the
beloved apostle shows us this divine contexture of the gospel. The great
and comprehensive end and design of the gospel is, peace in pardon of sin,
and purity from sin. “These things I write unto you, that you sin not,”
&c. The gospel is comprised in commands and promises, both make one web,
and link in together. The immediate end of the command is, “that we sin
not,” nay, but there is another thing always either expressly added, or
tacitly understood—“but if any man sin,” that desires not to sin, “we have
an advocate with the Father.” So the promise comes in as a subsidiary help
to all the precepts. It is annexed to give security to a poor soul from
despair, and therefore the apostle teacheth you a blessed art of
constructing all the commands and exhortations of the gospel, those of the
highest pitch, by supplying the full sense with this happy and seasonable
caution or caveat, “but if any man sin,” &c. Doth that command, “Be ye
holy as I am holy,” perfect as your heavenly Father, which sounds so much
unattainable perfection, and seems to hold forth an inimitable pattern,
doth it, I say, discourage thee? Then, use the apostle’s art, add this
caution to the command, subjoin this sweet exceptive,—“but if any man,”
that desires to be holy, and gives himself to this study, fail often, and
fall and defile himself with unholiness, let him not despair, but know,
that he hath “an advocate with the Father.” If that of Paul’s urge thee,
“present your bodies a living sacrifice,—and be not conformed to the
world,” but transformed, and “glorify God in your bodies and spirits,”
which are his, (Rom. xii. 1, 2, 1 Cor. vi. 20,)—and, cleanse yourselves
“from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit,” (2 Cor. vii. 1,)—and, “walk
in the Spirit,” and “walk as children of the light,” &c.,—if these do too
rigorously exact upon thee, so as to make thee lose thy peace, and weaken
thy heart and hands, learn to make out a full sentence, and fill up the
full sense and meaning of the gospel, according as you see it done here.
But if any man,—whose inward heart-desires, and chief designs are toward
these things, who would think himself happy in holiness and conformity to
God, and estimates his blessedness or misery, from his union or separation
from God,—“sin” then “we have an advocate with the Father, even Jesus
Christ the righteous,” who hath all that we want, and will not suffer any
accusation to fasten upon us, as long as he lives “to make intercession
for us.”

On the other hand, take a view of the promises of the gospel. Though the immediate and next
end of them is to give peace to troubled souls, and settle us in the high point of our acceptance
with God, yet certainly they have a further end, even purity from sin, as well as pardon of
sin, cleansing from all sin and filthiness as well as covering of filthiness. “These things
I write unto you, that ye sin not.” What things? Consider what goes before, and what follows
after, even the publication of the word of life, and eternal life in him, the declaration of
our fellowship with God in Christ the offering of the blood of Christ, able to cleanse all
sin, the promise of pardon to the penitent, confession of sin,—all these things I write, “that
ye sin not,” so that this seems to be the ultimate end and chief design of the gospel, unto
which all tends, unto which all work together. The promises are for peace, and peace is for
purity, the promises are for faith, and faith is for purifying of the heart, and performing
the precepts, so that, all at length returns to this, from whence, while we swerved, all this
misery is come upon us. In the beginning it was thus,—man was created to glorify God, by obedience
to his blessed will, sin interposeth and marreth the whole frame, and from this hath a flood
of misery flowed in upon us. Well, the gospel comes offering a Saviour, and forgiveness in
him. Thus peace is purchased, pardon granted, the soul is restored unto its primitive condition
and state of subordination to God’s will, and so redemption ends where creation began, or rather
in a more perfect frame of the same kind. The second Adam builds what the first Adam broke
down, and the Son re-creates what the Father in the beginning created, yea, with some addition.
In this new edition of mankind, all seems new—“new heavens, and new earth,” and that because
the creature that was made old, and defiled with sin, is made new by grace. Now, hence you
may learn the second part of this lesson that the apostle teaches us; as ye ought to correct,
as it were, precepts of the gospel, by subjoining promises in this manner, so ye ought to direct
promises towards the performance of his precepts, as their chief end. Whensoever you read it
written, “The blood of Christ cleanseth us from all sin,”—“If we confess, he is faithful to
forgive our sins,”—“God so loved the world that he gave his Son,”—“He that believeth hath everlasting
life,” &c.—then make up the entire sense and meaning after this manner, “These things are written
that we sin not.” Is there a redemption from wrath published? Is there reconciliation with
God preached? And are we beseeched to come and have the benefit of them? Then say, and supply
within thine own heart, These things are written, published, and preached, that we may not
sin. Look to the furthest end of these things, it is, “that we sin not.” The end of things,
the scope of writings, and the purpose of actions, is the very measure of them, and so that
is the best interpreter of them. The scope of scripture is by all accounted the very thread
that will lead a man right in and out of the labyrinths that are in it. And so it is used as
the rule of the interpretation in the parts of it. Now, my beloved in the Lord, take here the
scope of the whole scriptures, the mark that all the gospel shoots at, “These things I write
unto you, that ye sin not.” You hear, it is true, of pardon of sin, of delivery from wrath,
of not coming into condemnation, of covering offences, of blotting them out as a cloud, all
these you read and hear of, but what do they all aim at? If you consider not that attentively
you shall no more understand the plain gospel, than you can expound a parable without observing
the scope of it. Do you think these have no further aim, than to give you peace, and to secure
you from fears and terrors, that you may then walk as you list, and follow the guiding of your
own hearts? Nay, if you take it so, you totally mistake it. If you do not read on, and had
all these things written to this end, “that ye sin not,” you err, not understanding, or misunderstanding,
the scriptures.

“These things I write unto you, little children.” To enforce this the more sweetly, he useth
this affectionate compellation, “little children,” for in all things affection hath a mighty
stroke, almost as much as reason. It is the most suitable way to prevail with the spirit of
a man, to deal in love and tenderness with it, it speaks more sweetly, and so can have less
resistance, and therefore works more strongly. It is true, another way of terrors threatening,
and reproofs, mingled with sharp and heavy words of challenges, may make a great deal of more
noise, and yet it hath not such virtue to prevail with a rational soul. The Spirit of the Lord
was not in the wind, nor in the earthquake, nor in the fire, but in the still and calm voice
which came to Elijah, 1 Kings xix. 11, 12. These suit not the gentle, dove-like disposition
of the Spirit; and though they be fit to rend rocks in pieces, yet they cannot truly break
hearts, and make them contrite. The sun will make a man sooner part with his cloak than the
wind, such is the difference between the warm beams of affection, and the boisterous violence
of passions or terror. Now, O that there were such a spirit in them who preach the gospel,
such a fatherly affection, that with much pity and compassion they might call sinners from
the ways of death! O there is no subject, in which a man may have more room for melting affections,
nothing that will admit of such bowels of compassion as this—the multitude of souls posting
to destruction, and so blindfolded that they cannot see it! Here the fountain of tears might
be opened to run abundantly. The Lord personates a tender hearted father or husband often,
“Oh, why will ye die? Ye have broken my heart with your whorish heart. O Jerusalem, how oft
would I, but thou wouldst not!” When he, who is not subject to human passions, expresseth himself
thus, how much more doth it become us poor creatures to have pity on our fellow-creatures?
Should it not press out from us many groans, to see so many perishing, even beside salvation.
I wish you would take it so, that the warning you to flee from the wrath to come, is the greatest
act of favour and love that can be done to you. It becomes us to be solicitous about you, and
declare unto you, that you will meet with destruction in those paths in which you walk; that
these ways go down to the chambers of death. O that it might be done with so much feeling compassion
of your misery, as the necessity of it requires! But, why do many of you take it so hard to
be thus forewarned, and have your danger declared unto you? I guess at the reason of it. You
are in a distempter as sick children distempered in a fever, who are not capable of discerning
their parents’ tender affection, when it crosseth their own inclinations and ways.

Sermon XXII.

    1 John ii. In sin
there is the guilt binding over to punishment, and there is the filth or
spot that defileth the soul in God’s sight. To take away guilt, nothing so
fit as blood for there is no punishment beyond blood, therefore saith the
apostle, “without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin,”
Heb. ix. 22, and for the stain and spot, nothing is so suitable as water,
for that is generally appointed for cleansing. And some shadow of this the
heathens had, who had their lustrations in water, and their expiations by
blood,(249) but more significantly and plainly, the Jews, who had their
purifications by sprinkling of water, (Num. viii. 7.) and expiations by
sacrificing of slain beasts. But all these were but evanishing shadows;
now the substance is come, Jesus Christ is come in water and blood; in
water, to cleanse the spots of the soul, to purify it from all filthiness;
and in blood, to satisfy for sin, and remove the punishment. You have both
in these words of the apostle, for he labours to set out unto us the true
Christ, whole and entire, “these things I write unto you, that ye sin
not.” Here is the proper end of the water—and “if any man sin, we have
Christ a propitiation for our sins.” Here is the blood—the end of the
blood is to save us, the end of the water is that we sin not, since we are
saved. He came in the blood of expiation, because we had sinned. He came
in the water of sanctification, that we might not sin. His blood speaks
peace to the soul, and the water subjoins, “but let them not return to
folly.” His blood cries, “behold thou art made whole.” And the water
echoes unto it, “sin no more, lest a worse thing befall thee,” John v. 14.
These two streams of water and blood, which are appointed for purity and
pardon, run intermingled all along, and so the proper effects of them are
interchangeably attributed to either of them; “he hath washed us in his
blood,” (Rev. i. 5; vii. 14.) “and the blood of Christ cleanseth us from
all sin.” Then, certainly, this blood cannot be without water, it is never
separated from it. The proper effect of blood is to cover sin; but because
the water runs in that channel, and is conveyed by the blood thither,
therefore it doth cleanse sin, as well as cover it.

“These things I write unto you, that ye sin not.” This then is the design of the whole gospel,
the great and grand design,—to destroy sin, and save the sinner. There is a treaty of peace
made with the sinner, and “Christ is the peace-maker.” A tender of life and salvation is made
to him, but there is no treaty, no capitulation or composition with sin; out it must go, first
out of its dominion, then out of its habitation. It must first lose its power, and then its
being in a believer. Yea, this is one of the chief articles of our peace, not only required
of us as our duty, that we should destroy that which cannot but destroy us; for, if any man
will needs hug and embrace his sins, and cannot part with them, he must needs die in their
embracements, because the council of heaven hath irrevocably passed a fatal sentence against
sin, as the only thing that in all the creation hath the most perfect opposition to his blessed
will, and contrariety to his holy nature,—but also, and especially, as the great stipulation
and promise upon his part, “to redeem us from all our iniquities, and purify us to himself,
a people zealous of good works;” and not only to redeem us from hell, and deliver us from wrath,
Tit. ii. 14. He hath undertaken this great work, to compesce (250) this mutiny and rebellion
that was raised up in the creation by sin, else what peace could be between God and us, as
long as his enemy and ours dwelt in our bosom, and we at peace with it. 2, 3. And, as in that
place, their voice proclaims the glory, majesty, and goodness of God, so they, with the same
sound, proclaim and declare, that we should not sin against such a God, so great, and so good.
All that we see suggests and insinuates this unto our hearts; all that we hear whispers this
unto our ears, “that we sin not, that he made us, and not we ourselves, and that we are the
very work of his hands.” This speaks our absolute and essential dependence on him, and therefore
proclaims with a loud voice, that sin, which would cut off this subordination, and loose from
this dependence upon his holy will, is a monstrous, unnatural thing. Take all his mercies towards
us, whether general or particular, the transcendent abundance of his infinite goodness in the
earth, that river of his riches that runs through it, to water every man, and bring supply
to his doors, that infinite variety that is in heaven and earth, and all of them of equal birth-right
with man; yet by the law of our Maker, a yoke of subjection and service to man is imposed upon
them, so that man is, in a manner, set in the centre of all, to the end, that all the several
qualifications and perfections that are in every creature, may concentre and meet together
in him, and flow towards him. Look upon all his particular acts of care and favour towards
thee, consider his judgments upon the world, upon the nation, or thine own person. Put to thine
ear, and hear. This is the joint harmonious melody, this is the proclamation of all, “that
we sin not,” that we sin not against so good a God, and so great a God. That were wickedness,
this were madness. If he wound, it is “that we sin not:” if he heal again, it is “that we sin
not.” Doth he kill? It is “that we sin not!” Doth he make alive? It is for the same end. Doth
he shut up and restrain our liberty, either by bondage, or sickness, or other afflictions?
Why, he means “that we sin not.” Doth he open again? He means the same thing, “that we sin
no more, lest a worse thing befall us.” Doth he make many to fall in battle, and turn the fury
of that upon us? The voice of it is, that you who are left behind should “sin no more.” Is
there severity towards others, and towards you clemency? O the loud voice of that is, “sin
not!” But alas, the result of all is, that which is written, Psal. lxxviii. 32.—“Nevertheless
they sinned still.” In the midst of so many concurring testimonies, in the very throng of all
the sounds and voices that all the works of God utter, in the very hearing of these, nevertheless
to sin still, and not to return and inquire early after God,—this is the plague and judgment
of the nation.

But let us return to the words, “these things,” &c. “That which is written of the word of life,
that which was from the beginning, and was manifested unto us,” that is written “that we sin
not:” For, saith this same apostle, chap. iii. 5, 8, “And ye know that he was manifested to
take away our sins, and in him is no sin;” yea, for this very purpose, saith he, “that he might
destroy the works of the devil.” Now, this is the great business, that drew the Son out of
the Father’s bosom,—to destroy the arch-enemy and capital rebel, sin, which, as to man, is
a work of Satan’s, because it first entered in man by the devil’s suggestion and counsel. All
that misery and ruin, all those works of darkness and death, that Satan had by his malice and
policy wrought upon and in poor mankind, Jesus was manifested in the flesh without sin, to
destroy and take away sin out of our flesh, and to abolish and destroy Satan’s work, which
he had builded upon the ruins of God’s work, of the image of God, and to repair and renew that
first blessed work of God in man, Eph. iv. 23, 24.

Now, O how cogent and persuading is this; one so high, come down so low, one dwelling in inaccessible
glory, manifested in the flesh, in the infirmity and weakness of it, to this very purpose,
to repair the creation, to make up the breaches of it, to destroy sin, and save the sinner!
What force is in this to persuade a soul that truly believes it, “not to sin!” For, may he
think within himself, shall I save that which Christ came to destroy, shall I entertain and
maintain that which he came to take away, and do what in me lies to frustrate the great end
of his glorious and wonderful descent from heaven? Shall I join hands, and associate with my
lusts, and war for them, “which war against my soul,” and him that would save my soul?   Nay,
let us conclude, my beloved, within our own hearts,—Is the Word and Prince of life manifested
from heaven, and come to mar and unmake that work of Satan, that he may rescue me from under
his tyranny?  Then God forbid that I should help Satan to build up that which my Saviour is
casting down, and to make a prison for myself, and cords to bind me in it for everlasting.
Nay, will a believing soul say, rather let me be a worker together with Christ.  Though faintly,
yet I resolve to wrestle with him, to pull down all the strongholds that Satan keeps in my
nature, and so to congratulate and consent to him, who is the avenger and assertor of my liberty.

Then consider the greatest end and furthest design of the gospel, how it is inseparably chained
and linked into this, “that we sin not.”  We are called to fellowship with the Father and the
Son, and herein is his glory and our happiness.  Now, this proclaims with a loud voice, “that
we sin not,” for, what more contrary to that design of union and communion with God, than to
sin, which disunites and discommunicates the soul from God. The nature of sin you know, is
the transgression of his law, and so it is the very just opposition of the creatures will to
the will of him that made it. Now, how do ye imagine that this can consist with true friendship
and fellowship, which looseth that conjunction of wills and affections, which is the bond of
true friendship, and the ground of fellowship?  Idem velle atque idem nolle, hæc demum vera
amicitia est.(251) The conspiracy of our desires and delights in one point with God’s, this
sweet coincidency makes our communion, and what communion then can there be with God, when
that which his soul abhors is your delight, and his delight is not your desire?  “What communion
hath light with darkness?”  Sin is darkness.  All sin but especially sin entertained and maintained,
sin that hath the full consent of the heart, and carrieth the whole man after it, that is Egyptian
darkness, an universal darkness over the soul.  This being interposed between God and the soul,
breaks off communion, eclipses that soul totally.  Therefore, my beloved, if you do believe
that you are called unto this high dignity of fellowship with God, and if your souls be stirred
with some holy ambition after it, consider that “these things are written that ye sin not.”
Consider what baseness is in it, for one that hath such a noble design, as fellowship with
the Highest, to debase his soul so far and so low, as to serve sinful and fleshly lusts.  There
is a vileness and wretchedness in the service of sin, that any soul, truly and nobly principled,
cannot but look upon it with indignation, because he can behold nothing but indignity in it.
“Shall I who am a ruler,” saith Nehemiah, “shall such a man as I flee?  and who is there that
being as I am, would flee?” Neh. vi. 11.  A Christian hath more reason.  Shall such a man as
I, who am born again to such a hope, and called to such a high dignity, shall I, who aim and
aspire so high as fellowship with God, debase and degrade myself with the vilest servitude?
Shall I defile in that puddle again, till my own clothes abhor me, who aim at so pure and so
holy a society? Shall I yoke in myself with drunkards, liars, swearers, and other slaves of
sin? Shall I rank myself thus, and conform myself to the world, seeing there is a noble and
glorious society to incorporate with, the King of kings to converse with daily? Alas, what
are these worms that sit on thrones to him?  But far more, how base are these companions in
iniquity, your pot companions? &c.  And what a vile society is it like that of the bottomless
pit, where devils are linked together in chains?

Sermon XXIII.

    1 John ii.  It may be said
to be a well-ordered covenant in all things, that hath caveated and
cautioned the whole matter of our salvation, in such a way, that there is
neither place for discouragement and downcasting, nor yet room for liberty
in sin. There is no exemption from the obligation of God’s holy law, and
yet there is pardon for the breach of it, and exemption from the curse.
There is no peace, no capitulation with sin, and yet there is peace
concluded with the sinner, who is, by that agreement, bound to fall out
with sin.  There is no dispensation for sin, and from the perfection of
holiness, and yet there is an advocation for the sinner, who aims and
studies after it. So that, in sum, the whole gospel is comprised in
this,—“he speaks peace to his saint, but let them not return to folly;
thou art made whole, sin no more.” All that is in the gospel saith this,
“that thou shouldst sin no more.” But because sin is necessarily incident,
therefore all that is in the gospel speaks this further,—though ye be
surprised in sin, yet believe, and this is the round in which a believer
is to walk,—to turn from pardon to purity, and from pollution again to
pardon, for these voices and sounds are interchanged continually. If ye
have sinned, believe in Christ the advocate and sacrifice, and, because ye
have believed, sin not, but if ye be overtaken in sin, yet believe. And as
this is daily renewed, so the soul’s study and endeavour in them, should
be daily renewed too. If ye have sinned, despair not, if ye be pardoned,
yet presume not. After sin there is hope, it is true, because “there is
forgiveness with him,” but after forgiveness, there must be fear to offend
his goodness, for there is forgiveness with him, that he may be feared,
Psal. cxxx. 4 And this is the situation I would desire my soul in,—to be
placed between hope of his mercy and fear of sin, the faith of his favour
and the hatred of sin, which he will not favour, and how happy were a soul
to be confined within these, and kept captive to its true liberty.

I spake a little before, how those fundamental truths that are set down before, do all aim
at this one mark, “that we sin not,” now I proceed. That declaration what God is, verse 5,
is expressly directed to this purpose and applied, verse 6—“God is light,” and therefore “sin
not,” for sin is darkness, “he is light,” for purity and beauty of holiness, and perfection
of knowledge,—that true light in which is no darkness,—that unmixed light, all homogeneous
to itself,—therefore “sin not,” for that is a work of the night, and of the darkness, that
proceeds from the blindness and estrangement of your minds, and ignorance of your hearts, and
it cannot but prepare and fit you for those everlasting chains of darkness. Call God what you
will, name all his names, styles, and titles, spell all the characters of it, and still you
may find it written at every one of them, “sin not.” Is he light? Then sin not. Is he life?
Then sin not, for sin will separate you from his light and life, sin will darken your souls
and kill them. Is he love? Then sin not. “God is love,” saith John, O then sin not against
love! Hatred of any good thing is deformed; but the hatred of the beautiful image of the original
love, that is monstrous. “God is love,” and in his love is your life and light, then to sin
against him is not simple disobedience, nor is it only grosser rebellion, but it hath that
abominable stain of ingratitude in it. Do you read, that it is written, “he is holy?” Then
sin not, for this is most repugnant to his holiness,—“his holy eyes cannot see it.” Therefore,
if thou wouldst have him look upon thee with favour, thou must not look upon sin with favour,
or entertain it with delight. Is it written, that he is great and powerful?—Then sin not—that
were madness. Is it written, that he is good and gracious? Then it is written, that ye sin
not, for that were wickedness, it were an unspeakable folly and madness, to offend so great
a God, that can so easily avenge himself; and it were abominable perverseness, and wickedness,
to sin against so good and gracious a God, who, though he may avenge himself, yet offers pardon
and peace, and beseecheth us to accept it. Is he just? Then sin not, for “he will not acquit
the wicked nor hold them guiltless,”—them who do acquit themselves, and yet hold by their sins.
And is he merciful? Then, O then, sin not, because he hath acquitted thee, because he is ready
to blot out thy guilt! Wilt thou sin against mercy that must save thee? Again, is it written,
that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth from all sin? That is written, that ye sin not. It
is true, it is written, because ye have sinned already, that ye may know how it may be pardoned.
But, moreover, it is written, “that ye sin no more,” that so more sin may be prevented, at
least, deliberate continued  walking in sin. So that this blood hath a twofold virtue and use,
to be the greatest encouragement to a soul troubled for sin, and the chiefest argument and
inducement for a soul not to sin. This medicine, or this plaster, hath two notable virtues,
restorative and preservative, to restore the bones that already are broken, through falling
in sin and to preserve our feet from further falling in sin. It hath a healing virtue for those
bruises that are in the soul, and, besides, it is an anti-hate and sovereign preservative against
the poison and infection of sin and the world. What motive is like this? The Son of God shed
his blood for our sins, they cost a dear price. O how precious was the ransom! More precious
than gold, and silver, and precious stones, because the redemption of the soul is so precious,
that it would have ceased forever without it. Now, what soul can deliberately think of this,
and receive it with any affection into the heart, but shall find the most vehement persuasion
against sin? He cannot but behold the heinousness and infinite evil that is in it, which required
such an infinite recompense. And can a soul on that view run to the puddle and defile again,
when he sees how dearly the fountain for cleansing was purchased? Can a believing heart have
such treacherous thoughts harboured within it, to crucify afresh the Lord of glory, and, as
it were, to trample under feet his blood? No, certainly, he that believes in this blood cannot
use it so dishonourably and basely, as it is written, that he sin not, so he reads it, and
believes it, that he may not sin, as well as because he hath sinned. Many speak of this blood,
and think they apply it to the cleansing of their sin past, but it is rather that they may
sin with more liberty, as if the end of vomiting up a surfeit of sin were to surfeit more,
and the end of washing, were nothing else but to defile again. Certainly this blood is not
for such souls,—not one word of comfort in the word,—not one drop of hope in the blood, to
those who pretend to believe in Christ’s blood, and continue in sin, as fresh and lively as
ever they did, nothing abated of their desires or customs. But if we confess our sins, God
will forgive, say you, and this we may do at any time, and this we do daily. Nay, but saith
John, this is “written that you sin not,” not to encourage you to sin. It is not recorded for
this end, that you may live after your own imaginations and former customs, with security and
peace, upon this presumption, that pardon is easily procurable, if say, “God have mercy upon
me, ere I die.” Do not deceive yourselves, for it is written just for the contrary, “that you
sin no more, and return no more to folly.” If he had said, if we sin, though we confess yet
he is just to punish us, you would then be driven to desperation, and from that to a desperate
conclusion. Since we must be punished, however, let us not punish ourselves here, in mortifying
our flesh,—“let us eat and drink, for to morrow we shall die.” Die we must, let us deserve
it, for where there is no hope, there is no help for reformation.

But now, when there is such an unexpected proposal of grace, when God, who is free to punish
us, becomes indebted by his promise to forgive our debts, we humbly submitting to him, and
confessing our guiltiness, this surprisal of clemency and moderation should, yea, certainly
will, overcome any heart that truly believes it, and conquer it to his love and obedience.
The more easily he forgives sin, the more hardly will a believing heart be drawn to sin. You
know any ingenuous spirit will more easily be conquered by kindness and condescendency, than
severity and violence. These “cords of love are the bands of a man,” suited to the nature of
men in whom there is any sparkle of ingenuousness remaining. How often have men been engaged
and overcome by clemency and goodness, who could not be conquered by force of arms? Enemies
have been made friends by this means, such power is in it to knit hearts together. Augustus,
when he was acquainted with the conspiracy of one of his chief minions, Cinna, whom he had
made a friend of an enemy, by kindness and courtesy, takes the same way to make of a traitor
a constant friend. He doth not punish him as he had done others, but calls for him, and declares
unto him his vile ingratitude, that when he had given him life and liberty, he should conspire
to take away his prince’s life. Well, when he is confounded and astonished, and cannot open
his mouth, saith Augustus, I give thee thy life again, first an open enemy, and now a traitor,
yet from this day, let an inviolable friendship be bound up between us, and so it proved, for
this way of dealing did totally overcome his heart, and blot out all seditious thoughts.(252)
But, O how incomparably greater is his condescendency and clemency, whose person is so high
and sacred, whose laws are so just and holy, and we so base and wretched,—to pardon such infinite
guilt, rebellion, and treachery, against such an infinite majesty, and that, when a soul doth
but begin to blush, and be ashamed with itself, and cannot open its mouth! I say, this rare
and unparalleled goodness and mercy being considered, cannot but tame and daunt the wildest
and most savage natures. Wild beast are not brought into subjection and tamed, but by gentle
usage. It is not fierceness and violence can cure their fierceness, but meekness and condescendency
to follow their humours and soft dealing with them. As a rod is not bowed by great strength,
but broken, even so those things of the promise of pardon for sin, of the grace and readiness
of God to pardon upon the easiest terms, are written for this end, that our wild and undaunted
natures may be tamed, and may bow and submit willingly to the yoke of his obedience, and may
henceforth knit such a sacred bond of friendship and fellowship with God, as may never be broken.

But, say ye, who is he that sins not? Who can say, my heart is pure, and my way is clean? Who
can say, I have no sin? And therefore that cannot be expected which you crave. Nay, but saith
the apostle, “These things I write unto you, that ye sin not.” Because sin is in all, therefore
you excuse yourselves in your sins, and take liberty to sin. But the very contrary is the intent
of the declaring unto us that we have sin, he shows that none want it, not that ye may be the
more indulgent towards it, but the more watchful against it. It is not to make you secure,
but rather to give you alarm. Even the best and holiest,—it is an alarm to them, to tell them
that sin is in confinus, in their very borders, that the enemy is even in their quarters, yea,
in their bosom. Certainly, this should so much the more excite us against it, and arm us for
it every moment, lest either by fraud or force, by secret undermining or open violence, it
draw us away from God. This word, “if we say we have no sin, we lie,” is a watchword given
to men, a warning to enter in consideration of themselves, for the enemy being within, there
is no flying from him. We carry him about with us, and being within, he is less discerned,
and therefore we ought to awake, and so walk circumspectly, with eyes in our head, lest we
be surprised at unawares, either in that time we know not of, or at that place we least suspect.
And to others of you, who have never attained any victory over your sins, and scarce have a
discerning of them, I would only say this, that the universality of sin’s inhabitation, or
being in all men, even the godly, will not excuse sin’s domination and reign in you. It is
strange, that since the holiest have need of continual watching against this bosom enemy, that
ye who have both little knowledge and strength, should think ye may live securely, and not
trouble yourselves. If they have need to take heed, how much more have ye, since it is but
in them, but it reigns in you?

Sermon XXIV.

    1 John ii. 1.—“And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the
    Father,”, &c.

There is here a sad supposition, but too certain, that any man may sin, yea, that all men will
sin, even those who have most communion with God, and interest in the blood of Christ. Yet
they are not altogether exempted from this fatal lot of mankind. It is incident even to them
to sin, and too frequently incident, but yet we have a happy and sweet provision, for indemnity
from the hazard of sin,—“we have an advocate with the Father.” Grant the probability, yea,
the necessity and certainty of that supposal, “if any man do sin,” yet there is as much certainty
of indemnity from sin, as of necessity of falling into sin. It is not more sure, that we shall
carry about with us matter of sorrow and mourning, but that it is as sure, that we have always
without us matter of rejoicing.

Let me then speak a word to these particulars. First, That sin is incident to the best, even
after all persuasions, convictions, resolutions, desires, and designs to avoid sin. Next, That
it is usual for sins after mercy, convictions, and resolution, to appear so heinous, that they
may seem to overtop the mercy of God, and the merits of Christ, a soul is most apt to be troubled
with guilt contracted after pardon, and a desire of purity. But withal I would, in the Last
place represent to you, that there is no ground of despair or discouragement for such an one
though there be ground of humiliation and mourning. There is a provision made in the gospel
against these continually incident fears, there is a security against the hazard of surprising
sins, and, this comfort belongs only to such souls as unfeignedly desire not to sin, and are
in some measure persuaded by the grace of God not to sin, not to those who willingly give themselves
up to their own lusts. It is as common a doctrine as any, that sin hath some lodging in every
man’s heart and flesh, and is not totally cast out, but only bound with chains within, that
it do not exercise its old dominion over a believer. But I fear, the most common truths, though
they be most substantial in themselves, are yet but circumstantial in our apprehensions, and
very rarely and extraordinarily have place in the deeper and more serious thoughts of our hearts.
They are commonly confessed, it is true, but as seldom considered, I am sure. For who did truly
ponder the inclineableness of our nature to sin, the strong propension of the heart to evil,
the deceitfulness of sin itself, and the many circumstantial helps and additions it gets to
its strength, but would stand in awe, and watch seriously over himself. I dare say, many sin,
rather because of a misapprehended immunity from it and a misreckoning of their own measure
and strength, than because of the strength of sin itself. I know no one thing makes sin so
strong as this,—that we do not apprehend our own weakness, and so give over watchfulness, which
is the greatest and best part of our armour of defence, when it is done in faith, and this
watch kept on the tower of the Lord’s promises. The apprehension of our escaping the pollutions
of the world, and of some strength to resist them; this adds no more strength to us, but diminisheth
and taketh from our vigilance and so exposeth us, as it were, naked and secure, to the cruelty
of our adversary. I would wish every Christian to be thoroughly acquainted, and often conversant
in two books of sophistry, I may so term them—the deceitfulness of his own heart, and the deceivableness
of sin, Jer. xvii. and Heb. iii. 13. These are the volumes he would daily turn over to learn
to discern the sophistications, self flatteries, blindness, darkness, and self love of his
own heart, to take off the deceiving mask of pretences and appearances of good, and behold
sensibly the true and real inclinations of the heart to wickedness, to  passion, pride, uncleanness,
malice, envy, and all those affections of the flesh,—to find out the true beating of the pulse
of the heart. And indeed this just discerning and discovery of the thief in the soul, is a
great part of his arraignment, for if sin be under the view of an eye that hates it, and loves
God, much of its power and virtue, which be in darkness, is taken away. I press this the more
because I verily apprehend it to be the plague of many Christians, who have some general insight
into the matter of good and evil, and espy some more gross corruption in themselves, and have
some affection to good. Yet this estrangedness to our own hearts, and the vein or strain of
them, the not unbowelling of our hidden affections, and not discerning of the poison of pride,
self love, love of the world, and such like lusts, which are intermingled in all that we do,
and spread, as it were, universally through the whole man, this, I say, makes most of us to
be subject to so many surprisals by sin. We are often routed before we draw up, and often conquered
ere we consider. This makes us such unproficients in mortification, so that scarce any sin
is killed, while the roots of all sin lie hid under the ground from us. Then withal, I desire
you to study how deceivable a thing sin is,—how many deceitful fair pretences it is covered
with. It hath the voice of Jacob, but the hands of Esau. Look, what it is that is pleasant
or suitable to our natural spirits,—it insinuates itself always under the shadow of that, and
if there be not much heedfulness and attention, and much experience of the wiles of that subtile
one, it is a great hazard to be catched with it unadvisedly, while we clasp about another thing
which is presented as a bait and allurement. Now, is it any wonder that a poor soul be drawn
to sin often, when our enemy doth not for the most part profess hostility, but friendship,
and under that colour pleads admission within our ports? And, besides, we have a treacherous
friend in our bosom, that betrays us into his hands, that is, our own deceitful hearts. These
things I mention to put you in remembrance of what condition you are in, in this world, and
what posture you should be in. Watch, I say, and when ye have done all, stand with your loins
girt, and though you cannot possibly escape all sin, yet certainly it is not in vain thus to
set against it, and keep a watch over it, for by this means you shall escape more sin and sin
less, as he that aims at the mark, though he do not hit it, yet shall ordinarily come nearer
it, than he that shoots only at random, and as the army that is most vigilant and watchful,
though they cannot prevent all losses and hazards, yet commonly are not found at such a loss,
as those who are proud, confident, and secure.

Now, as it is supposed, that sin is ordinarily incident to the child of God, so it is especially
to be caveated, that he despair not in his sins, for it is imported in this provision, that
the believer is in great hazard upon new lapses into sin, either of daily incursion, or of
a grosser nature, to be discouraged. As there is so much corruption in any man’s heart, as
will turn the grace of God into wantonness, and incline him upon the proposal of free grace
to presume to take liberty to the flesh, so that same corruption, upon another occasion, works
another way, upon the supposal of new sins, aggravated with preceding mercy and grace in God,
and convictions and resolutions in him, to drive him into despondency and dejection of spirit,
as if there were no pardon for such sins. And indeed, it is no wonder if the soul be thus set
upon, if we set aside the consideration of the infinite grace of God, that far surpasseth the
ill deserts of men. To speak of the very nature of the thing itself, there is no sin in its
own nature more unpardonable than sin after pardon; nothing so heinous, aggravated with so
many high circumstances, which mingleth it with the worst ingredients, as this sin, after so
much grace revealed in the gospel, to the end that we may not sin. Sins washed so freely, in
so precious a fountain, and yet to defile again, sins forgiven so readily and easily, the debt
whereof, in justice, the whole creation was not able to pay, and yet to offend so gracious
a Father, a soul being thoroughly convinced of the vanity, folly, and madness of sin, of the
deceitfulness and baseness of its pleasures, and set in a posture against it, as the most deadly
enemy; and yet, after all this, to be foiled, deceived, and insnared—here, I say, are very
piercing considerations, which cannot but set the challenge very deep into the heart of a Christian
and wound him sore. How will he be filled with shame and confusion of face if he look upon
God, every look or beam of whose countenance represents unto the soul the vilest and most abominable
visage of sin! Or if he look into himself, there is nothing but self condemning there. He finds
his own conscience staring him as a thousand witnesses. Thus the soul of a believer being environed,
he is ready to apprehend, that though God should have pardoned the sins of his ignorance yet
that there is more difficulty in this,—to pardon his returnings to folly, and therefore are
some put to harder exercise, and greater terrors, after conversion, than in the time of it.
The sins of ignorance being, as it were, removed as a cloud, and scored out in a heap, but
the sins of knowledge after mercy, lying more distinctly and clearly in the view of the soul,
it is more difficult to blot them out of the conscience, and sprinkle the heart from an evil
conscience. These things I speak to you for this reason, that you may be afraid to sin. I suppose
that there is no hazard of eternal damnation by sin. Grant that you know beforehand, that if
you sin, there is yet forgiveness with him, and there is no hazard of perishing by it, yet,
sure I am, it is the most foolish adventure in the world, to take liberty on that account,
for though there be indemnity that way, as to thy eternal estate, yet I am persuaded, that
there is more damage another way, in thy spiritual estate in this world, than all the gains
of sin can countervail. There is a necessary loss of peace and joy, and communion of the Holy
Ghost. It is inevitable, in the very ordinary and natural course and connection of things,
but that sin, that way indulged, will eclipse thy soul, and bring some darkness of sorrow and
horror over it. To speak after the manner of man, and in the way of reason itself, the entertainment
of that which God hates will deprive thee of more solid joy and sweetness in him, than all
the pleasures of sin could afford. Therefore I dare not say to you, as one too unadvisedly
expresseth it, “Fear not, though you do sin, of any hurt that can come by these sins, for if
you sin it shall do you no hurt at all.”(253) I say, this were indeed but to make you too bold
with sin. I had rather represent unto you, that though ye be secured in your eternal estate,
and there can come no condemnation that way, yet there is much hurt comes by sin, even in this
world, and sure, I think it a very rational and Christian inducement, to prevail with a Christian
not to sin, to tell him that he shall make a foolish bargain by it, for he shall lose much
more than he can gain. Is there no hurt or loss incident to men, but eternal perdition? Nay,
my beloved, there is a loss Christians may sustain by sinning freely, which all the combined
advantages of sin cannot compensate. Is not one hour’s communion with God, are not the peace
of your own consciences, and the joy of the Spirit, such inestimable jewels, that it were more
suitable for a man to sell the world, and buy them, than to sell them, and buy a poor momentary
trifling contentment, which hath a sting in the tail of it, and leaves nothing but vexation
after it? O these bruises in David’s bones, these breaches in his spirit, that loss of the
joy of his salvation! Let these teach you who are escaped the great hurt of sin, to fear, at
least, to be hurt by it this way, more than ever you can expect to be helped by it.

But then, I desire to add this in the third place, that there is provision made against the
discouragement of those souls that desire not to sin, and yet sin against their desire. If
the challenge I spoke of be written in thy conscience, as it were with the point of a diamond,
deeply engraven, yet my beloved, consider, that “if any man sin, we have an advocate,” &c.
There is an express caution against thy discouragement. Certainly our Saviour hath provided
for it. Since the case is so incident, and the supposition so ordinary, it is not conceivable
that he hath not caveated and secured thy salvation in such cases, for he knew certainly before
he pardoned thee, and visited thee at first, that thou wast to be subject unto this necessary
burden of sin, and that it would often times molest and trouble you, and sometimes prevail
over you. All this he knew, that when he should order your forces, and draw out against sin,
with the greatest desire and resolution, that yet you might be foiled unexpectedly, and this
was not unknown to him, when he showed mercy at first. Therefore, since his love is unchangeable,
and his wisdom, being infinite, saith it should be so, he would never have cast his love on
such persons, if these things, which were then before him, could make him change. Now, I grant
there is more wonder in the pardon of following sins, than in the first pardon, and therefore
you should still love more, and praise more. But what is this wonder to the wonder of his grace?
It is swallowed up in that higher wonder, for his thoughts and ways are not like ours, his
voice is, “Return, thou backsliding sinner, to thy first husband, though thou hast played the
harlot.” Therefore, I desire that whatsoever be presented in that kind, to aggravate your sins,
let it humble you more indeed, and make you hate sin, but let it not hinder you to think as
highly of his mercy and grace, and to set that in the heavens above it.

Sermon XXV. As every man by sin is liable to the judgment of the supreme court of heaven, so
he is likewise subject to the inferior court of his own conscience, for the most high God hath
a deputy within every man’s breast, that not only is a witness, but a judge, to fasten an accusation,
and pronounce a sentence upon him according to the law of God. And while it is so, that a man
is accused in both courts, at the supreme tribunal, and the lower house of a man’s own conscience,
when man’s accuser is within him, and God, his righteous Judge, above him, who can come in
to plead such a man’s cause? A person self condemned, who shall plead for his absolution? If
he cannot but accuse himself, and stop his mouth, being guilty before God of the transgression
of all his law, then what place for an advocate to accuse him, or defend his cause? And who
is it that can enter in the lists with God, who, because the supreme and highest Judge, must
be both Judge and party? Where shall a daysman be found to lay his hands on both, and advocate
the desperate-like cause of sinners? Truly, here we had been at an eternal stand, and here
had the business stuck for ever, for anything that the creation could imagine, had not the
infinite grace and wisdom of God opened themselves to mankind, in opening a door of hope to
broken and outlaw sinners. And behold, here is the provision made for the security and salvation
of lost souls,—there is one able and mighty to save,—a person found out fit for this advocation,
who taketh the broken cause of sinners in hand, and pleads it out, and makes out justice to
be for them, and not against them,—“If any man sin, we have an advocate,” &c.

There is one thing imported, that sin maketh a man liable to a charge and accusation, and brings
him under the hazard of judgment. Indeed it is hard enough to endure an accusing conscience,
and a spirit wounded with the apprehension of wrath. When our Saviour would express great affliction,
he doth it thus—“A man’s enemies shall be those of his own house.” If a domestic enemy be so
ill, what shall a bosom enemy be, when a man’s accuser is not only beside him, but within him,—not
only in the house with him, but in the field too,—carried about with him whithersoever he goeth,
so that he can have no retiring or withdrawing place from it! Indeed, some poor souls make
a mad escape from under the challenge of their consciences, they get away from their keepers
to more excess in sin, or make some vain diversion to company, and other things of the world.
But the end thereof shall be more bitterness, for that will not still sleep within them, but
shall awake upon them with more terror, and one day put them in such a posture, that all the
comforts of the world shall be but as a drop of water to a man in a burning fever, or as oil
to a flame. But, as I told you, that is not the greatest matter, to be self accused, and self-condemned,
if there were not a higher tribunal, which this process originally flows from, one greater
than the conscience, who speaks to us in his word, and hath written his charge and sentence
against us, and this is it which sets the soul most on edge, and it is but the very apprehension
of that higher judgment, which is the gall and wormwood, the poison of those challenges in
the conscience. I would desire you to look upon this, and consider that there is a sentence
passed in the word of God upon all your actions, that the wrath of God is revealed in the scriptures
as due to you, however you may flatter yourselves in your sins, and fancy an immunity from
wrath, though you live in sin. I wish ye were once persuaded of this,—that all sinners must
once appear before God’s tribunal and hear the righteous sentence of the dueness of punishment
pronounced; I say, all must once appear, either to hear and believe it, or to see it executed.
The wisdom of God requires, that all men’s guilt, which is a transgression of the law, should
once come to a judicial trial and decision by the law, and either this must be done in your
own consciences here, that ye may sist yourselves before him, and take with your sins, and
humble yourselves in his sight, and then the matter is put over upon a Mediator, or else you
must give him leave, nay he will take leave to cite you to appear, to see the sentence executed
which was pronounced, since ye would not apply it to your own hearts. O! happy is that soul
that anticipates that great day of final judgment, by a previous self judgment and self trial.
Well, then, hath the scriptures included all under sin, that all men might be guilty and every
mouth stopped before God, Rom. iii. 19. What shall we do then? Since righteousness and justice
is against us, who can plead for us? It would seem that there could be no relaxing, no repealing,
no dispensing with this law at least that if there be anything of that kind, that righteousness
and judgment can have no hand in it. Yet, behold, what follows, “we have an advocate,” &c.
And an advocate’s office is to sue out the client’s right, from principles of justice. These
do not cross one another, but make out our abundant consolation, that one entire office of
our Saviour is represented under all these various notions suited to our capacity. A Judge
he is yea, his tribunal is the highest and supreme, from which there is no appeal, the ultimate
decision lies here of all capital or soul cases and causes. It is true, the Father doth not
wholly divest himself of judgment and authority in the matters of life and death, for the gospel
is his contrivance, as it was the Son’s, but Christ is, as it were, substituted his vicegerent,
in the administration of the second covenant. You read of a preparatory tribunal erected in
the word by God the Creator, that is, of the law which condemns us. Now, such is the mercy
and grace, and free love of God, that he hath relaxed that sentence as to the persons. He hath
not taken that advantage which in justice he had against us, but upon some valuable considerations
hath committed to the Son a royal power of prescribing new laws of life and death, and new
terms of salvation, and Christ having, at his Fathers will, satisfied the law, in what it did
threaten us, he is, as it were, in compensation of such a great service, made Lord and King
“both of the dead and living,” (Rom. xiv. 9,) and “all things in heaven and earth are given
to him,” Matt. xxviii. 18, John xiii. 3. And therefore, whatever soul is aggrieved under the
accusation and charge of the law, hath liberty, yea, and is called to it, of duty, to appeal
unto this new erected tribunal, where Christ sits to dispense life according to the terms of
grace and he may be sure the Father will not judge him according to the law, if the Son absolve
him in the gospel.

Now, with this it consists, that he who hath all final judgment in his hand, yet is our advocate
in another consideration, as we consider God the Father sitting upon the tribunal of justice,
and proceeding according to the terms and tenor of his first law, or covenant of life and death.
Then Christ comes in with his advocation for poor sinners, and sustains their persons, and
maintains their cause, even from the principles of justice. He presents his satisfactory sacrifice
and pleads that we are not to be charged with that punishment that he hath suffered, because
he hath indeed fulfilled our legal righteousness, and by this means the law’s mouth is stopped,
which had stopped our mouth, and the sinner is absolved, who was found guilty. Thus you see
the salvation and absolution of believers is wonderfully secured, for there is a sentence for
it in the court of the gospel, pronounced by the Son. But lest you think he should usurp such
an absolute power, then hear, that he is an advocate to plead out the equity and justice of
it, before the very tribunal of the law, that the law itself being the rule, the Father himself,
who made the law, being the Judge, the poor soul that flies unto him as a refuge, may be saved,
since what it craved of us it gets in him, and is as fully satisfied that way, as it could
have been by us. Therefore, that same righteousness which bids condemn the sinner, commands
to save the believer in Christ, though a sinner. What shall a soul then fear? Who shall condemn?
It is Christ that justifieth, for he is judge of life and death and that is much. But it is
the Father that justifieth, and that is more whatsoever tribunal you may be cited unto, you
may be sure. Is it the gospel? Then the Son is judge. Is it the law? Then the Son is advocate.
He will not only give life himself, but see that his Father do it, and warrant you from all
back hazards. Nay, before the matter shall misgive, as he comes down from off the throne, to
stand at the bar and plead for sinners, who devolve themselves upon him, so he will not spare
if need require, to degrade himself further, if I may say so, and of an advocate become a supplicant.
And truly he ceased not in the days of his flesh to pray for us, “with strong cries and tears,”
Heb. v. 7. And now he still lives to make intercession for us. He can turn from the plea of
justice, to the intercession and supplication of mercy, and if strict justice will not help
him, yet grace and favour he is sure will not disappoint him.

There is a divine contexture of justice and mercy in the business of man’s redemption, and
there is nothing so much declares infinite wisdom, as the method, order, and frame of it. Mercy
might have been showed to sinners, in gracious and free pardon of their sins, and dispensing
with the punishment due to their persons, yet the Lord’s justice and faithfulness in that first
commination might be wronged and disappointed by it, if no satisfaction should be made for
such infinite offences, if the law were wholly made void both in the punishment, as also to
the person. Therefore in the infinite depths of God’s wisdom there was a way found out to declare
both mercy and justice, to make both to shine gloriously in this work, and indeed that is the
great wonder of men and angels, such a conjunction or constellation of divine attributes in
one work. And indeed, it is only the most happy and favourable aspect in which we can behold
the divine Majesty. The Psalmist, Psalm lxxxv., expects much good from this conjunction of
the celestial attributes, and prognosticates salvation to be near at hand, and all good things,
as the immediate effect of it. There is a meeting there, as it were, of some honourable personages,
(ver. 10, 11) such as are in heaven. The meeting is strange, if you consider the parties,—Mercy
and Truth, Righteousness and Peace. If Mercy and Peace had met thus friendly, it had been less
wonder, but it would seem, that Righteousness and Truth should stand off, or meet only to reason
and dispute the business with Mercy. But here is the wonder,—Mercy and Truth meet in a friendly
manner, and “kiss one another.” There is a perfect agreement and harmony amongst them, about
this matter of our salvation. There was a kind of parting at man’s fall, but they met again
at Christ’s birth. Here is the uniting principle, “Truth springing out of the earth.” Because
he who is “the truth and the life, was to spring out of the earth therefore” righteousness
will look down from heaven, and countenance the business, and this will make all of them to
meet with a loving salutation.

Now, as this was the contexture of the divine attributes in the business of redemption, so
our Lord and Saviour taketh upon him divers names, offices, and exercises, different functions
for us because he knoweth that his Father may justly exact of man personal satisfaction, and
hath him at this disadvantage, and that he might have refused to have accepted any other satisfaction
from another person. Therefore he puts on the habit and form of a supplicant and intercessor
for us, and so while he was in the flesh, he ceased not to offer up “prayers and supplications
with strong cries and tears,” and he is said still “to make intercession for us.” As he learned
obedience, though a Son, so he learned to be a humble supplicant, though equal with God. Because
our claim depends wholly on grace, he came off the bench, and stood at the bar, not only pleading
but praying for us, entreating favour and mercy to us. And then, he personates an advocate
in another consideration, and pleads upon terms of justice, that we be pardoned, because his
Father once having accepted him in our stead he gave a satisfaction in value equal to our debt,
and performed all that we were personally bound to. So then you may understand how it is partly
an act of justice, partly an act of mercy, in God to forgive sin to believers, though indeed
mercy and grace is the predominant ingredient, because love and grace was the very first rise
and spring of sending a Saviour and Redeemer, and so the original of that very purchase and
price. He freely sent his Son, and freely accepted him in our stead, but once standing in our
room justice craves that no more be exacted of us, since he hath done the business himself.

A sinner stands accused in his own conscience, and before God, therefore, to the end that we
get no wrong, there is a twofold advocate given us, one in the earth, in our consciences, another
in the heavens with God. Christ is gone up to the highest tribunal, where the cause receives
a definitive sentence, and there he manageth it above, so that though Satan should obtrude
upon a poor soul a wrong sentence in its own conscience, and bring down a false and counterfeit
act, as it were, extracted out of the register of heaven, whereby to deceive the poor soul,
and condemn it in itself, yet there is no hazard above, he dare not appear there, before the
highest court, for he hath already succumbed on earth. When Christ was here, the prince of
the world was judged and cast out, and so he will never once put in an accusation into heaven,
because he knoweth our faithful advocate is there, where nothing can pass without his knowledge
and consent. And this is a great comfort, that all inferior sentences in thy perplexed conscience,
which Satan, through violence hath imposed upon thee, are rescinded above in the highest court,
and shall not stand to thy prejudice, whoever thou be that desirest to forsake sin and come
to Jesus Christ.

But how doth Christ plead? Can he plead us not guilty? Can he excuse or defend our sins? No,
that is not the way. That accusation of the word and law against us is confessed, is proven,
all is undeniably clear, but, he pleads satisfied, though guilty,—he presents his satisfactory
sacrifice and the savour of that perfumes heaven, and pacifieth all. He shows God’s bond and
discharge of the receipt of the sum of our debt, and thus is he cleared, and we absolved. Therefore
I desire you, whoever you are that are challenged for sin, and the transgression of the law,
if ye would have a solid way of satisfaction and peace to your consciences, take with your
guiltiness. Plead not “not guilty.” Do not excuse or extenuate, but aggravate your guilt. Nay,
in this you may help Satan, accuse yourselves, and say that you know more evil in yourselves
than he doth and open that up before God. But in the meantime, consider how it is managed above.
Plead thou also “satisfied in Christ though guilty,” and so thou mayest say to thy accuser,
“If thou hast any thing to object against me, why I may not be saved, though a sinner, thou
must go up to the highest tribunal to propone it, thou must come before my judge and advocate
above, but forasmuch as thou dost not appear there, it is but a lie, and a murdering be.”

Now this is the way that the Spirit advocates for us in our consciences, John xiv. and xv.
26. παρακλετος is rendered here “Advocate,” there “Comforter.” Both suit well, and may be conjoined
in one, and given to both, for both are comfortable advocates,—Christ with the Father, and
the Spirit with us. Christ is gone above for it, and he sent the Spirit in his stead. As God
hath a deputy judge in man, that is, man’s conscience, so the Son, our advocate with God, hath
a deputy advocate to plead the cause in our conscience, and this he doth, partly by opening
up the Scriptures to us and making us understand the way of salvation in them, partly manifesting
his own works and God’s gifts in us by a superadded light of testimony, and partly by comforting
us against all outward and inward sorrows. Sometimes he pleads with the soul against Satan
“not guilty,” for Satan is a slanderous and a false accuser, and cares not calumniari fortiter
ul aliquid hæreat, to calumniate stoutly, and he knoweth something will stick.(254) He will
not only object known sins and transgressions of the law, but his manner is to cast a mist
upon the eye of the soul, and darken all its graces, and then he brings forth his process,
that they have no grace, no faith in Christ, no love to God, no sorrow for sin. In such a case,
it is the Spirit’s office to plead it out to our consciences, that we are not totally guilty,
as we are charged, and this is not so much a clearing of ourselves, as a vindication of the
free gifts of God, which lie under his aspersion and reproach. Indeed, if there be a great
stress here, and, for wise reasons, the Spirit forbear to plead out this point, but leave a
poor soul to puddle it out alone, and scrape its evidences together in the dark,—I say, if
thou find this too hard for thee to plead not guilty then my advice is, that ye wave and suspend
that question. Yield it not wholly, but rather have it entire, and do as if it were not. Suppose
that article and point were gained against thee, what wouldst thou do next? Certainly, thou
must say, I would then seek grace and faith from him who giveth liberally. I would then labour
to receive Christ in the promises. I say, do that now, and thou takest a short and compendious
way to win thy cause, and overcome Satan. Let that be thy study, and he hath done with it.

But in any challenge about the transgression of the law, or desert of eternal wrath, the Spirit
must not plead “not guilty,” for thou must confess that, but in as far as he driveth at a further
conclusion, to drive thee away from hope and confidence to despondency of spirit, in so far
the Spirit clears up unto the conscience that this doth nowise follow from that confession
of guiltiness, since there is a Saviour that hath satisfied for it, and invites all to come,
and accept him for their Lord and Saviour.

Sermon XXVI.

    1 John ii. 1.—“We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ
    the righteous.”

There is no settlement to the spirit of a sinner that is once touched with the sense of his
sins, and apprehension of the justice and wrath of God, but in some clear and distinct understanding
of the grounds of consolation in the gospel, and the method of salvation revealed in it. There
is no solid peace giving answer to the challenges of the law and thy own conscience, but in
the advocation of Jesus Christ, the Saviour of sinners. And therefore the apostle propones
it here for the comfort of believers who are incident to be surprised through the suddenness
of sin, and often deceived by the subtlety of Satan, whose souls’ desires and sincere endeavours
are to be kept from iniquity, and therefore they are made to groan within themselves, and sometimes
sadly to conclude against themselves, upon the prevailing of sin. Here is the cordial, I say.
He presents to them Jesus Christ standing before the bar of heaven, and pleading his satisfaction
in the name of such souls, and so suiting forth an exemption and discharge for them from their
sins. So he presents us with the most comfortable aspect, Christ standing between us and justice,
the Mediator interposed between us and the Father, so there can come no harm to such poor sinners,
except it come through his sides first, and no sentence can pass against them, unless he succumb
in his righteous cause in heaven.

The strength of Christ’s advocation for believers consists partly in his qualification for
the office, partly in the ground and foundation of his cause. His qualification we have in
this verse, the ground and foundation of his pleading in the next verse, in that “he is the
propitiation for our sins,” and upon this very ground his advocation is both just and effectual.

Every word holds out some fitness, and therefore every word drops out consolation to a troubled
soul. “With the Father,” speaks out the relation he and we stand in to the Judge. He hath not
to do with an austere and rigid Judge, that is implacable and unsatisfiable, who will needs
adhere peremptorily to the letter of the law, for then we should be all undone. If there were
not some paternal affection, and fatherly clemency and moderation in the Judge, if he were
not so disposed, as to make some candid interpretation upon it, and in some manner to relax
the sentence, as to our personal suffering, we could never stand before him, nor needed any
advocate appear for us. But here is the great comfort,—he is Christ’s Father and our Father,
so himself told us, (John xx. 17,) “I go to my Father and your Father, and my God and your
God.” And therefore we may be persuaded that he will not take advantage, even in that which
he hath in justice, of us, and though we be apprehensive of his anger, in our failings and
offences, and this makes us often to be both afraid and ashamed to come to him, measuring him
after the manner of men, who are soon angry, and often implacably angry. We imagine that he
cannot but repel and put back our petitions, and therefore we have not the boldness to offer
them, yet he ceaseth not to be our Father and Christ’s Father. And if ye would have the character
of a father, look (Jer. xxxi. 18,) how he stands affected towards ashamed and confounded Ephraim,
how his bowels move, and his compassions yearn towards him as his pleasant child. The truth
is, in such a case, in which we are captives against our will, and stumble against our purpose,
he pities us as a father doth his children, knowing that we are but dust and grass, Psal. ciii.
13-17. See the excellent and sweet application of this relation by the Psalmist—if it stir
him, it stirs up rather the affection of pity, than the passion of anger. He pities his poor
child, when he cries out of violence and oppression; and therefore, there are great hopes that
our advocate Jesus Christ shall prevail in his suits for us, because he, with whom he deals,—the
Father,—loves him, and loves us, and will not stand upon strict terms of justice, but rather
attemper all with mercy and love. He will certainly hear his well beloved Son, for in him he
is well pleased, his soul rests and takes complacency in him, and for his sake he adopts us
to be his children, and therefore he will both hear him in our behalf, and our prayers too,
for his name’s sake.

But this is superadded to qualify our advocate,—he is the Christ of God, anointed for this
very purpose, and so hath a fair and lawful calling to this office. He takes not this honour
to himself, but was called thereto of his Father, Heb. v. 4. As he did not make himself a priest,
so he did not intrude upon the advocateship, “but he that said, Thou art my Son called him
to it.” If a man had never so great ability to plead in the law, yet, except he be licentiate
and graduate, he may not take upon him to plead a cause. But our Lord Jesus hath both skill
and authority, he hath both the ability and the office, was not a self intruder or usurper,
but the council of heaven did licentiate him, and graduate him for the whole office of mediatorship:
in which there is the greatest stay and support for a sinking soul, to know that all this frame
and fabric of the gospel was contrived by God the Father, and that he is master builder in
it. Since it is so, there can nothing control it or shake it, since it is the very will of
God, “with whom we have to do,” that a mediator should stand between him and us, and since
he hath such a mind to clear poor souls, that he freely chooseth and giveth them an able Advocate,
it is a great token that he hath a mind to save as many as come and submit to him and that
he is ready to pardon, when he prepares so fit an Advocate for us, and hath not left us alone
to plead our own cause.

But the anointing of Christ for it, implies both δυναμιν and εξουσιαν potentiam et potestatem,
the gifts for it as well as the authority, and the ability as well as the office, for God hath
singularly qualified him for it,—given him the Spirit above measure, Isa. lxi. 1. He received
gifts not only to distribute to men, but to exercise for men, and their advantage, Psal. lxviii.
18. And therefore the Father seems to interest himself in the cause as it were his own. He
furnisheth our Advocate as if it were to plead the cause of his own justice against us, he
upholds and strengthens Christ in our cause, as really as if it were his own, Isa. xlii. 1,
6, which expresseth to us the admirable harmony and consent of heaven to the salvation of as
many as make Christ their refuge, and desire not to live in sin. Though they be often foiled,
yet there is no hazard of the failing of their cause above, because our Advocate hath both
excellent skill, and undoubtable authority.

Yea, he is so fully qualified for this that he is called Jesus the Saviour, he is such an Advocate
that he saves all he pleads for. The best advocate may lose the cause, either through the weakness
of itself, or the iniquity of the judge, but he is the Advocate and the Saviour, that never
succumbed in his undertaking for any soul. Be their sins never so heinous—their accusation
never so just and true—their accuser never so powerful, yet they who put their cause in his
hand, who flee in hither for refuge being wearied of the bondage of sin and Satan, he hath
such a prevalency with the Father, that their cause cannot miscarry. Even when justice itself
seems to be the opposite party, yet he hath such marvellous success in his office, that justice
shall rather meet amicably with mercy and peace, and salute them kindly, (Psal. lxxxv. 10,
11,) as being satisfied by him, that he come short in his undertaking.

But there is another personal qualification needful, or all should be in vain,—“Jesus the righteous.”
If he were not righteous in himself, he had need of an advocate for himself, and might not
plead for sinners, but he is righteous and holy, no guile found in his mouth, without sin,
an unblameable and unspotted High Priest, else he could not mediate for others, and such an
Advocate too, else he could not plead for others, Heb. vii. 26. As this perfected his sacrifice,
that he offered not for his own sins, neither needed he, so this completes his advocateship,
and gives it a mighty influence for his poor clients, that he needs not plead for himself.
If, then, the law cannot attach our Lord and Saviour, can lay no claim to him, or charge against
him, then certainly, all that he did behoved to be for others, and so he stands in a good capacity
to plead for us before the Father, and to sue out a pardon to us, though guilty, for if the
just was delivered for the unjust, and the righteous suffered for the unrighteous, much more
is it consistent with the justice of the Father, to deliver and save the unrighteous and unjust
sinner for the righteous Advocate’s sake. “If ye seek me, then let these go free,” saith he,
John xviii. 8. So he in effect pleads with God his Father, O Father, if thou deal with me,
the righteous One, as with an unrighteous man, then, in all reason and justice, thou must deal
with my poor clients, though unrighteous, as with righteous men.  If justice thought she did
me no wrong to punish me, the righteous, then let it not be thought a wrong to justice to pardon,
absolve, and justify the unrighteous.

Now, if he be so righteous a person, it follows necessarily, that he hath a righteous cause,
for an honest man will not advocate an unjust cause. But how can the cause of believers be
said to be righteous, when justice itself, and the law, indicts the accusation against them?
Can they plead not guilty, or he for them?  There is a twofold righteousness, in relation to
a twofold rule, a righteousness of strict justice, in relation to the first covenant, and this
cannot be pleaded, that our cause is exactly conformable to the covenant of works.  We cannot,
nor Christ in our name, plead any thing from that, which holds forth nothing but personal obedience,
or else personal satisfaction. But yet our cause may be found to be righteous, in relation
to the second covenant, and the rule and terms of it, in as far as God hath revealed his acceptance
of a surety in our stead and hath dispensed with the rigour of the law, according to that new
law of grace and righteousness contempered together. The cause of a desperate lost sinner may
be sustained before the righteous Judge, and it is upon this new account that he pleads for
us because he hath satisfied in our stead, and now it is as righteous and equitable with God,
to show mercy and forgiveness to believing sinners, as it is to reveal wrath and anger against
impenitent sinners.

I know there will be some secret whisperings in your hearts upon the hearing of this.  Oh!
it is true, it is a most comfortable thing for them whose advocate he is.  There is no fear
of the miscarrying of their cause above, but as for me, I know not if he be an advocate for
me, whether I may come into that sentence, “We have an advocate,” &c.  I confess it is true,
he is not an advocate for every one, for while he was here, he prayed not for the world, but
them that were given him out of the world, (John xvii.), much more will he not plead for the
world, when he is above. He is rather witnessing against the unbelieving world.  But yet, I
believe his advocation is not restrained only to those who actually believe, as neither his
supplication was, John xvii.  But as he prayed for those who should hereafter believe, so he
still pleads for all the elect not only to procure remission to the penitent, but repentance
to the impenitent. There is one notable effect of the advocation and intercession of Christ,
which indeed is common to the world, but particularly intended for the elect, that is, the
present suspension of the execution of the curse of the law, by virtue whereof there is liberty
to offer the gospel, and call sinners to repentance. No question, the sparing of the world,
the forbearance and long suffering of God towards sinners, is the result and fruit of our Lord’s
intercession and advocation in heaven, and so, even the elect have the benefit of it before
they believe, but it is so provided, that they shall never sensibly know this, nor have any
special comfort from it, till they believe, and so Christ doth not plead for pardon to their
sins till they repent.  He pleads even before we repent, but we cannot know it; yet he pleads
not that pardon be bestowed before they repent, and so the saving efficacy of his advocation
is peculiar and proper in the application to believing souls.

Now, consider, I say, whether or not thou be one that finds the power of that persuasion,—“My
little children, I write unto you that ye sin not,” &c. Canst thou unfeignedly say, that it
is the desire and endeavour of thy soul not to sin, and that thou art persuaded to this, not
only from the fear and terror of God, but especially from his mercy and goodness in the gospel?
This is one part of the character of such as Christ’s advocation is actually extended to. Moreover,
being surprised with sin, and overcome beside thy purpose, and against thy desire, dost thou
apprehend sin as thy greatest misery, and arraign thyself before the tribunal of God, or art
thou attached in thy own conscience, and the law pleaded against thee, before the bar of thy
own conscience?  Then, I say, according to this scripture, thou art the soul unto whom this
comfort belongs, thou art called of God to decide the controversy in thy own conscience.  By
flying up, and appealing to that higher tribunal, where Christ is advocate, thou mayest safely
give over, and trust thy cause to him.

But, on the other hand, O how deplorable and remediless is the condition of those souls who
have no cause of this kind stated within their own consciences, who are not pursued by Satan
and sin, but rather at peace with them, amicably agreeing with them, acting their lusts and
will!  You who have no bonds upon you, to restrain you from sin, neither the terror of the
Lord persuadeth yon, nor the love of Christ constrains you, you can be kept from no beloved
sin, nor pressed to any serious and spiritual labour in God’s service; and then when you sin,
you have no accuser within, or such an one as you suppress, and suffer not to plead it out
against you or cite you before God’s tribunal.  I say unto you, (and, alas!  many of you are
such) you do not, you cannot know, that you have an interest in this Advocate.  You can have
no benefit or saving advantage from Christ’s pleading, while you remain thus in your sins.
Alas! poor souls, what will ye do? Can you manage your own cause alone?  Though you defraud
and deceive your own consciences now, though ye offer violence to them, do ye think so to carry
it above?  Nay, persuade yourselves you must one day appear, and none to speak for you, God
your Judge, your conscience your accuser, and Satan, your tormentor, standing by, and then
woe to him that is alone, when the Advocate becomes Judge.  In that day blessed are all those
that have trusted in him, and used him formerly as an Advocate against sin and Satan, but woe
to those for ever, who would never suffer this cause to be pleaded, while there was an Advocate!

Sermon XXVII.

    1 John ii. 2.—“And he is the propitiation,” &c.

Here is the strength of Christ’s plea, and ground of his advocation, that “he is the propitiation.”
The advocate is the priest, and the priest is the sacrifice, and such efficacy this sacrifice
hath, that the propitiatory sacrifice may be called the very propitiation and pacification
for sin.  Here is the marrow of the gospel, and these are the breasts of consolation which
any poor sinner might draw by faith, and bring out soul refreshment.  But truly, it comes not
out but by drawing, and there is nothing fit for that but the heart, that alone can suck out
of these breasts the milk of consolation.  The well of salvation in the word is deep, and many
of you have nothing to draw with, you want the bucket that should be let down, that is, the
affectionate meditation and consideration of the heart, and therefore you go away empty.  You
come full of other cares, and desires, and delights, no empty room in your hearts for this,
no soul longings and thirstings after the righteousness of God, and therefore you return as
you came, empty of all solid and true refreshment. Oh, that we could draw it forth to you,
and then drop it into your hearts, and make it descend into your consciences!

In these words, you may consider more distinctly, who this is, and then, for whom he is made
a sacrifice, and withal, the efficacy of this sacrifice, and the sufficiency. Who this is,
is pointed out as with the finger. “He is,” that is, “Jesus Christ, the righteous.”  The apostle
demonstrates him as a remarkable person, as in his evangel the Baptist doth—“Behold the Lamb
of God, which taketh away the sins of the world.” And the church, (Isa. lxii. 1,) taketh a
special notice of this person, “Who is this that cometh from Edom?” And that which maketh him
so remarkable, is his strange habit, after the treading the wine-press of wrath alone,—that
he was made a bloody sacrifice to pacify God. And to show you how notable a person he is, he
is signally and eminently pointed out by the Father, Isa. xlii. 1, “Behold my servant,” &c,
as if he would have the eyes of all men fixed upon him, with wonder and admiration. And for
this end, he singled him out from the multitude, by a voice from heaven, which testified unto
him particularly, “This is my well beloved Son, hear him.” Therefore the apostle had reason
to say, (2 Cor. v. 14.) that he is “one for all,” so notable an one, that he may serve for
all. He stands in more value in the count of God than all mankind. All creatures are ciphers,
which being never so much multiplied, come to nothing, amount not beyond nothing, but set him
before them, put Christ on the head of them, and he signifies more than they all do, and gives
them all some estimation in the count. And so they stand in Paul’s calculation, (Phil. iii.)
which he makes with very great assurance and confidence, “Yea, doubtless, I count all dung,
but the superexcellent knowledge of Christ,”—Christ is only the figure that hath signification,
and gives signification to other things.

But in this business, the consideration of the persons interested, he and us, maketh us behold
a great emphasis in the gospel. He a propitiation, and that for our sins, is a strange combination
of wonders. If it had been some other person less distant from us, that were thus given for
us, and standing in our room, then we should have better understood the exchange. Things of
like worth, to be thus shuffled together, and stand in one another’s place, is not so strange.
But between the persons mentioned, him and us, there is such an infinite distance, that it
is wonderful how the one descends to the room of the other, to become a sacrifice for us. O
that we could express this to our own hearts, with all the emphasis that it hath! He the Lord,
and we the servants; he the King, and we the poor beggars, he the brightness of his Father’s
glory, and we the shame and ignominy of the whole creation, he counting it no robbery to be
equal with God, and being in the form of God, and we not equal to the worst of creatures, because
of sin, and being in the form of devils! Had it been a holy and righteous man for sinners,
it had been a strange enough exchange, but he is not only holy and harmless, but higher than
the heavens. O what a vast descent was this, from heaven to earth, from a Lord to a servant,
from an eternal Spirit to mortal flesh, from God to creatures! And to descend thus far for
such persons, not only unworthy in themselves, such as could not conciliate any liking, but
such as might procure loathing,—as is described, Ezek. xvi., Rom. v. 6, 1 Pet. iii. 18,—“while
we were enemies,” and might have expected a commissioner from heaven, with vengeance against
us. Behold how the mysterious design of love breaks up and opens itself to the world, in sending
his own Son for us! And this is exceedingly aggravated from the absolute freedom of it, that
there was nothing to pre-engage him to it, but infinite impediments in the way to dissuade
him, many impediments to his affection, and many difficulties to his power, and then, no gain
nor advantage to be expected from such creatures, notwithstanding of such an undertaking for them.

Now, herein is the strongest support of faith, and the greatest incentive to love, and the
mightiest persuasive to obedience that can be. I say, the strongest support of faith, for,
a soul apprehending the greatness and heinousness of sin and the inviolableness of God’s righteousness,
with the purity of his holiness, can hardly be persuaded, that any thing can compense that
infinite wrong that is done to his Majesty, though ordinarily the small and superficial apprehension
of sin makes a kind of facility in this, or an empty credulity of the gospel. The reason why
most men do not question and doubt of the gospel, and of their acceptance before God, is not
because they are established in the faith, but rather because they do not so seriously and
deeply believe, and ponder their own sins, and God’s holiness, which, if many did, they would
find it a greater difficulty to attain to a solid and quieting persuasion of the grounds of
the gospel: they would find much ado to settle that point of the readiness of God, to pardon
and accept sinners. But now, I say, all this difficulty, and these clouds of doubts will evanish
at the bright appearance of this Sun of righteousness, that is, at the solid consideration
of the glorious excellency of him that was given a ransom for us. Herein the soul may be satisfied,
that God is satisfied, when he considers what a person hath undertaken it, even Jesus the righteous,
the only Son of God, in whom his soul delighteth, whose glorious divine Majesty puts the stamp
of infinite worth upon all his sufferings, and raiseth up the dignity of the sacrifice, beyond
the sufferings of all creatures. For there are two things needful for the full satisfaction
of a troubled soul, that apprehends the heinousness of sin, and height of wrath, nothing can
calm and settle this storm, but the appearance of two things first of God’s willingness and
readiness to pardon sin, and save sinners, next of the answerableness of a ransom to his justice,
that so there may be no impediment in his way to forgive. Now, let this once be established
in thy heart that such an one, so beloved of God and so equal to God, is the propitiation for
our sins that, “God hath sent his only begotten Son,” for this very business, unrequired and
unknown of us then, there is the clearest demonstration of these two things that can be—of
the love of God, and of the worth of the ransom. What difficulty can be supposed in it, actually
to pardon thy heinous sins, when his love hath overcome infinitely greater difficulties, to
send One, his own Son, to procure pardon, John iii. Certainly, it cannot but be the very delight
of his heart to forgive sins, since he “spared not his Son” to purchase it, since he hath had
such an everlasting design of love, which broke out in Christ’s coming. And then, such a person
he is, that the merit of his sufferings cannot but be a valuable and sufficient compensation
to justice for our personal exemption, because he is one above all, of infinite highness. And
therefore his lowness hath an infinite worth in it,—of infinite fulness, and therefore his
emptiness is of infinite price of infinite glory, and so his shame is equivalent to the shame
and malediction of all mankind. So then, whatsoever thou apprehendest of thy own sins or God’s
holiness, that seemeth to render thy pardon difficult, lay but in the balance with that first,
the free and rich expression of the infinite love of God, in sending such an one for a ransom,
and sure, that speaks as much to his readiness and willingness, as if a voice spake it just
now from heaven, and then, to take away all scruple, lay the infinite worth of his person,
who is the propitiation, with thy sins, and it will certainly outweigh them, so that thou mayest
be fully quieted, and satisfied in that point, that it is as easy for him to pardon, as for
thee to confess sin and ask pardon, nay that he is more ready to give it thee, than thou to ask it.

But, in the next place I desire you to look upon this as the greatest incentive of affection.
O how should it inflame your hearts to consider, that such an one became a sacrifice for our
sins, to think that angels hath not such a word to comfort themselves withal! Those innumerable
companies of angels, who left their station, and were once in dignity above us have not such
glad tidings to report one to another in their societies, as we have. They cannot say, “He
is the propitiation for our sins.” This is the wonderful mystery, that blessed “angels desire
to look into.” They gaze upon it, and fix the eyes of their admiration upon “God manifested
in the flesh,” wondering at the choice of mortal man, before immortal spirits, that he is a
ransom for them, and not for their own brethren who left their station. How should this endear
him to our souls, and his will to our hearts, who hath so loved us, and given himself for us!
Hath he given himself for us, and should we deny ourselves to him, especially when we consider
what an infinite disparity is between the worth and difference in the advantage of it. He gave
his blessed self a sacrifice, he offered himself to death for us, not to purchase any thing
to himself, but life to us. And what is it he requires but your base and unworthy self,—to
offer up your lusts and sins in a sacrifice by mortification, and your hearts and affections
in a thanksgiving offering, wherein your own greatest gain lies too? For this is truly to find
and save yourselves, thus to quit yourselves to him.

The efficacy of this is holden out in the word, “propitiation for our sins.” The virtue of
Christ’s sacrifice is to pacify justice and make God propitious, that is, favourable and merciful
to sinners. In which there are three considerable things imported. One is that sin is the cause
of enmity between God and man, and sets us at an infinite distance—that sin is a heinous provocation
of his wrath. Another is expressed, that Christ is the propitiation,—in opposition to that
provocation, he pacifies wrath, and then conciliates favour by the sacrifice of himself. All
the expressions of the gospel import the damnable and deplorable estate that sin puts man into,
reconciliation imports the standing enmity and feud between God and man, propitiation imports
the provocation of the holy and just indignation of God against man, the fuel whereof is our
sins, justification implies the lost and condemned estate of a sinner, under the sentence and
curse of the law. All that is in the gospel reminds us of our original, of the forlorn estate
in which he found us, none pitying us nor able to help us. I would desire that this might first
take impression on your hearts,—that sin sets God and man at infinite distance, and not only
distance, but disaffection and enmity. It hath sown the seeds of that woful discord, and kindled
that contention, which, if it be not quenched by the blood of Christ, will burn to everlasting,
so that none can dwell with it, and yet sinners must dwell in it. There is a provoking quality
in it, fit to alienate the holy heart of God, and to incense his indignation, which, when once
it is kindled who can stand before it? Do but consider what you conceive of wrongs done to
you, how they stir your passions and provoke your patience so that there is much ado to get
you pacified, and what heinousness must then be in your offences against God, both in regard
of number and kind? O that you could but impartially weigh this matter, you would find, that
in the view of God all wrongs and injuries between men evanish. “Against thee, thee only, have
I sinned.” That relation and respect of sin to God, exhausts all other respects of injuries
towards men. It is true, that his Majesty is free from passion, and is not commoved and troubled
as your spirits are. Yet such is the provoking nature of sin, that it cries for vengeance,
and brings a sinner under the dreadful sentence of divine wrath, which he both pronounceth
and can execute without any inward commotion or disturbance of spirit. But, because we conceive
of him after our manner, therefore he speaks in such terms to us. But that which he would signify
by it is, that the sinner is in as dreadful and damnable a condition by sin, as if the Lord
were mightily inflamed with anger and rage. The just punishment is as due and certain as if
he were subject to such passions as we are, and so much the more certain, that he is not. Now
I desire you to consider, how mightily the heinousness of sin is aggravated, partly by the
quality of the persons, and partly by the consideration of his benefits to us. A great man
resents a light wrong heavily, because his person makes the wrong heavier. O! what do you think
the Most High should do considering his infinite distance from us, his glorious majesty and
greatness, his pure holiness, his absolute power and supremacy? What vile and abominable characters
of presumption and rebellion do all these imprint upon disobedience! Shall he suffer himself
to be despised and neglected of men, when there is no petty creature above another, but will
be jealous of his credit, and vindicate himself from contempt? And then, when ingratitude is
mingled in with rebellion, it makes sin exceeding sinful, and sinful sin exceeding provoking.
To proclaim open war against the holy and righteous will of him to whom we owe ourselves, and
all that we are or have, to do evil, because he is good, and be unthankful, because he is kind
to take all his own members, faculties, creatures, and employ them as instruments of dishonour
against himself, there is here fuel for feeding everlasting indignation, there is no indignity,
no vileness, no wickedness to this. All the provocations of men, how just soever, are in the
sight of this groundless and vain, like a child’s indignation. All are but imaginary injuries,
consisting but in opinion, in regard of that which sin hath in the bosom of it against God.

But how shall any satisfaction be made for the injury of sin? What shall pacify his justly
deserved anger? Here is the question indeed, that would have driven the whole world to a nonplus,
if once the majesty and holiness of God had been seen. But the ignorance of God’s greatness,
and men’s sinfulness, made the world to fancy some expiations of sin, and satisfactions to
God, partly by sacrifices of beasts, partly by prayer, and repentance for sins.

Sermon XXVIII.

    1 John ii. 3.—“And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep
    his commandments.”

This age pretends to much knowledge beyond former ages, knowledge, I say, not only in other
natural arts and sciences, but especially in religion. Whether there be any great advancement
in other knowledge, and improvement of that which was, to a further extent and clearness, I
cannot judge, but I believe there is not much of it in this nation, nor do we so much pretend
to it. But, we talk of the enlargements of divine knowledge, and the breaking up of a clearer
light in the point of religion, in respect of which we look on former times, as the times of
ignorance and darkness, which God winked at. If it were so indeed, I should think the time
happy, and bless the days we live in, for as many sour and sad accidents as they are mixed
withal. Indeed, if the variety of books, and multiplicity of discourses upon religion, if the
multitude of disputes about points of truth, and frequency of sermons, might be held for a
sufficient proof of this pretension, we should not want store enough of knowledge and light.
But, I fear that this is not the touchstone of the Holy Ghost, according to which we may try
the truth of this assertion, that this is not the rule, by which to measure either the truth,
or degrees of our knowledge, but for all that, we may be lying buried in Egyptian darkness,
and while such a light seems to shine about us our hearts may be a dungeon of darkness, of
ignorance of God and unbelief, and our ways and walk full of stumblings in the darkness. I
am led to entertain these sad thoughts of the present times from the words of the apostle,
which give us the designation of a true Christian, to be the knowledge of God, and the character
of his knowledge, to be obedience to his commands. If, according to this level, we take the
estimate of the proportion of our knowledge and light, I am afraid lest there be found as much
ignorance of God, and darkness, as we do foolishly fancy that we have of light. However, to
find it, will be some breaking up of light in our hearts, and to discover how little we know
indeed upon a solid account, will be the first morning star of that Sun of righteousness, which
will shine more and more to the perfect day. Therefore we should labour to bring our light
to the lamp of this word, and our knowledge to this testimony of unquestionable authority,
that having recourse “to the law and to the testimony,” we may find if there be light in us
or so much light as men think they see. If we could but open our eyes to the shining light
of the scripture, I doubt not but we should be able to see that which few do see, that is,
that much of the pretended light of this age is darkness and ignorance. I do not speak of errors
only that come forth in the garments of new light, but especially of the vulgar knowledge of
the truth of religion, which is far adulterated from the true metal and stamp of divine knowledge,
by the intermixture of the gross darkness of our affections and conversation, as that other
is from the naked truth, and therefore both of them are found light in the balance of the sanctuary,
and counterfeit by this touchstone of obedience.

To make out this examination the better I shall endeavour to open these three things unto you,
which comprehend the words. 1st, That the knowledge of God in Jesus Christ is the most proper
designation of a Christian, “Hereby we know that we know him,” which is as much as to say that
we are true Christians,—2dly, That the proper character of true knowledge is obedience, or
conscionable practising of what we know,—and then, lastly, That the only estimate or trial
of our estate before God, is made according to the appearance of his work in us and not by
immediate thrusting ourselves into the secrets of God’s hidden degrees. “Hereby we know,” &c.
Here then, in a narrow circle we have all the work and business of a Christian. His direct
and principal duty is to know God, and keep his commands, which are not two distinct duties
as they come in a religious consideration, but make up one complete work of Christianity, which
consists in conformity to God. Then the reflex and secondary duty of a Christian, which makes
much for his comfort, is, to know that he knows God. To know God, and keep his commands, is
a thing of indispensable necessity to the being of a Christian, to know that we know him is
of great concernment to the comfort and well being of a Christian. Without the first, a man
is as miserable as he can be, without the sense and feeling of misery, because he wants the
spring and fountain of all happiness; without the second, a Christian is unhappy, indeed, for
the present, though he may not be called miserable, because he is more happy than he knows
of, and only unhappy, because he knows not his happiness.

For the first, then, knowledge is a thing so natural to the spirit of a man, that the desire
of it is restless and insatiable. There is some appetite of it in all men, though in the generality
of people (because of immersedness in earthly things, and the predominancy of corrupt lusts
and affections, which hinder most men’s souls to wait upon that more noble inquiry after knowledge,
in which only a man really differs from a beast) there be little or no stirring that way, yet
some finer spirits there are, that are unquiet this way, and, with Solomon, give themselves,
and apply their hearts to search out wisdom. But this is the curse of man’s curiosity at first,
in seeking after unnecessary knowledge, when he was happy enough already, and knew as much
of God and his works as might have been a most satisfying entertainment of his spirit, I say,
for that wretched aim, we are to this day deprived of that knowledge which man once had, which
was the ornament of his nature and the repast of his soul. As all other things are subdued
under a curse for sin, so especially this which man had is lost, in seeking that which he needed
not, and the track of it is so obscured and perplexed, the footsteps of it are so indiscernible,
and the way of it is like a bird in the air, or a ship in the sea, leaving us few helps to
find it out, that most part of men lose themselves in seeking to find it, and therefore, in
all the inquiries and searchings of men after the knowledge even of natural things that come
under our view, there is at length nothing found out remarkable, but the increase of sorrow,
and the discovery of ignorance, as Solomon saith, Eccles. i. 18. This is all the jewel that
is brought up from the bottom of this sea, when men dive deepest into it, for the wisest of
men could reach no more, though his bucket was as long as any man’s, chap. vii. 23. “I said,
I will be wise, but it was far from me, that which is far off and exceeding deep, who can find
it out?” Knowledge hath taken a far journey from man’s nature, and hath not left any prints
behind it to find it out again, but, as it were, hath flown away in an instant, and therefore
we may ask, with Job, chap. xxviii. ver. 1, 12, “Surely there is a vein for the silver,” etc.
“But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding?” What Utopian isles
is she transported unto, that mortal men, the more they seek her, find more ignorance,—the
further they pursue, they see themselves at the further distance? Thus it is in those things
that are most obvious to our senses, but how much more in spiritual and invisible things is
our darkness increased, because of the dulness and earthiness of our spirits that are clogged
with a lump of flesh! For God himself, that should be the primum intelligibile of the soul,
the first and principal object, whose glorious light should first strike into our hearts, Job
testifies “how little a portion is known of him.” When we cannot so much as understand “the
thunder of his power,” that makes such a sensible impression on our ears, and makes all the
world to stand and hearken to it, then how much less shall we conceive the invisible Majesty
of God? In natural things, we have one vail of darkness in our minds to hinder us, but in the
apprehension of God, we have a twofold darkness to break through, the darkness of ignorance
in us, and “the darkness of too much light” in him—caliginem nimiæ lucis, which makes him as
inaccessible to us as the other, the over-proportion of that glorious majesty of God to our
low spirits, being as the sun in its brightness to a night owl, which is dark midnight to it.
Hence it is, that those holy men who know most of God, think they know least, because they
see more to be known but infinitely surpassing knowledge. Pride is the daughter of ignorance
only, “and he that thinketh he knoweth anything knoweth nothing as he ought to know,” saith
the apostle, 1 Cor. viii. 2. For he that knoweth not his own ignorance, if he know never so
much, is the greatest ignorant, and it is a manifest evidence that a man hath but a superficial
touch of things and hath never broken the shell, or drawn by the vail of his own weakness and
ignorance, that doth not apprehend deeply the unsearchableness of God, and his mysteries, but
thinketh he hath in some measure compassed them, because he maketh a system of divinity, or
setteth down so many conclusions of faith, and can debate them against adversaries, or because
he hath a form and model of divinity, as of other sciences, in his mind. Nay, my beloved, holy
Job attained to the deepest and fullest speculation of God, when he concluded thus, “Because
I see thee, I abhor myself,” and as Paul speaks, “If any man love God he is known of God, and
so knows God,” 1 Cor. viii. 3. From which two testimonies I conclude, that the true knowledge
of God consists not so much in a comprehension of all points of divinity, as in such a serious
apprehension and conception of the divine Majesty as enkindles and inflames these two affections,
love and hatred, towards their proper objects, such a knowledge as carries the torch before
the affection, such a light as shines into the heart, as Paul’s phrase is, 2 Cor. iv. 6, and
so transmits heat and warmness into it, till it make the heart burn in the love of God, and
loathing of himself. As long as a man doth but hear of God in sermons, or read of him in books,
though he could determine all the questions and problems in divinity, he keeps a good conceit
of himself, and that “knowledge puffeth up,” and swells a man into a vain tumour, the venom
of poison blows him up full of wind and self-confidence, and commonly they who doubt least
are not the freest of error and misapprehension. And truly, whoever seriously reflects upon
the difficulty of knowledge, and darkness of men’s minds, and the general curse of vanity and
vexation that all things are under, so that what is wanting cannot be numbered, nor that which
is crooked made straight,—he cannot but look upon too great confidence and peremptoriness in
all points, as upon a race at full speed in the dark night, in a way full of pits and snares.
Oftentimes our confidence flows not from evidence of truth, but the ignorance of our minds,
and is not so much built upon the strength of reason, as the strength of our passions, and
weakness of our judgments.

But when once a man comes to see God, and know him in a lively manner, then he sees his own
weakness and vileness in that light, and cries out with Isaiah, “Wo is me, I am a man of polluted
lips,” and he discerns in that light, the amiableness and loveliness of God that lavisheth
his heart after it, and then, as Jeremiah saith, he will not glory in riches, or strength,
or beauty, or wisdom, but only in this, that he hath at length gotten some discovery of the
only fountain of happiness. Then he will not think so much of tongues and languages, of prophesyings,
of all knowledge of controversies, neither gifts of body nor of mind, nor external appendages
of providence will much affect him. He would be content to trample on all these, to go over
them into a fuller discovery and enjoyment of God himself. The infinite light, and the infinite
life, are simply one, and he that truly without a dream sees the one, cannot but be warmed
and moved by the other.

So then, by this account of the knowledge of God, we have a clear discovery that many are destitute
of it, who pretend to it. I shall only apply it to two sorts of persons, one is, of those who
have it only in their memories, another, of those who have it only in their minds or heads.
Religion was once the legitimate daughter of judgment and affection, but now, for the most
part, it is only adopted by men’s memories, or fancies. The greatest part of the people cannot
go beyond the repetition of the catechism or creed. Not that I would have you to know more:
but you do not understand that, only ye repeat words, without the sensible knowledge of the
meaning of them; so that if the same matter be disguised with any other form of words, you
cannot know it, which showeth, that you have no familiarity with the thing itself, but only
with the letters and syllables that are the garments of it. And for others that are of greater
capacity, yet, alas! it comes not down to the heart, to the affecting, and moulding, and forming
of it. A little light shines into the mind, but your hearts are shut up still, and no window
in them. Corrupt affections keep that garrison against the power of the gospel. That light
hath no heat of love, or warmness of affection with it, which showeth that it is not a ray
or beam of the Sun of righteousness, which is both beautiful for light, and beneficial for
influence, on the cold, and dead, frozen hearts of mankind, and by its approaching, makes a
spring-time in the heart.

But all men pretend to know God. Such is the self love of men’s hearts, that it makes them
blind in judging themselves, therefore the Holy Ghost, as he designs a Christian by the knowledge
of God, so he characterizeth knowledge by keeping the commandments. “Hereby we know,” &c. So
that religion is not defined by a number of opinions, or by such a collection of certain articles
of faith, but rather by practice and obedience to the known will of God; for, as I told you,
knowledge is a relative duty, that is, instrumental to something else, and by anything I can
see in scripture, is not principally intended for itself, but rather for obedience. There are
some sciences altogether speculative, that rest and are complete in the mere knowledge of such
objects, as some natural sciences are. But others are practical, that make a further reference
of all things they cognosce upon, to some practice and operation. Now, perhaps some may think
that the scripture, or divinity, is much of it merely contemplative, in regard of many mysteries
infolded in it, that seem nothing to concern our practice. I confess much of that, that is
raised out of the scriptures, is such, and therefore it seems a deviation and departure from
the great scope and plain intent of the simplicity and easiness of the scriptures, to draw
forth with much industry and subtilty, many things of mere speculation and notion, dry and
sapless to the affection, and unedifying to our practice, and to obtrude these upon other men’s
consciences, as points of religion. I rather think, that all that is in the scriptures, either
directly hath the practice of God’s will for the object of it, or is finally intended for that
end, either it is a thing that prescribeth our obedience, or else it tends principally to engage
our affections, and secure our obedience, and so those strains of elevated discourses of God,
his nature and properties, of his works, and all the mysteries infolded in them, are directed
towards this end, further than mere knowing of them, to engage the heart of a believer to more
love, and reverence, and adoration of God, that so he may be brought more easily and steadily
to a sweet compliance, and harmonious agreement to the will of God, in all his ways. Nay, to
say a little more, there are sundry physical or natural contemplations of the works of God
in scripture, but all these are divinely considered, in reference to the ravishment of the
heart of man, with the wisdom, and power, and goodness of God. And this shows us the notable
art of religion, to extract affection and obedience to God, out of all natural contemplations,
and thus true divinity engraven on the soul, is a kind of mistress science, architectonica
scientia,(255) that serves itself of all other disciplines(256) of all other points of knowledge.
Be they never so remote from practice, in their proper sphere, and never so dry and barren,
yet a religious and holy heart can apply them to those divine uses of engaging itself further
to God and his obedience: as the Lord himself teacheth us—“Who would not fear thee, O King
of nations,” Jer. x.; and, “fear ye not me who have placed the sand,” &c. Jer. v. 22. So praise
is extracted, Psal. civ.; and admiration, verses 1, 83. So submission and patience under God’s
hand is often pressed in Job. Therefore, if we only seek to know these things that we may know
them, that we may discourse on them, we disappoint the great end and scope of the whole scriptures;
and we debase and degrade spiritual things as far as religion exalts natural things in the
spiritual use. We transform it into a carnal, empty, and dead letter, as religion, where it
is truly, spiritualizeth earthly and carnal things into a holy use.

To The Reader.

Christian Reader,

This holy preacher of the gospel had so many convictions upon his spirit of the necessity of
the duties of humiliation and mourning, and of people’s securing the eternal interest of their
souls for the life to come, by flying into Jesus Christ for remission of sins in his blood,
that he made these the very scope of his sermons in many public humiliations, as if it had
been the one thing which he conceived the Lord was calling for in his days; a clear evidence
whereof thou shall find manifested in these following sermons upon choice texts, wherein the
author endeavoureth, not only to lay before thee the necessity of these duties of soul humiliation,
but also showeth thee the gospel manner of performing them, the many soul advantages flowing
from the serious exercise of them, and the many soul-destroying prejudices following upon the
neglect of them, but above all, thou shalt find him so fully setting forth the sinfulness of
sin, and the utter emptiness of self, as may convince the most pharisaically elated spirits,
and make them cry out with Ezra, chap. ix. 6, “O my God, I am ashamed, and blush to lift up
my face to thee, my God, for our iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is
grown up unto the heavens.” Here thou mayest read such pregnant demonstrations of the righteousness
and equity of the Lord’s dealing, even in his severest punishments inflicted upon the children
of men, as may silence every whisperer against providence, and make them say, as Lam. iii.
22, “It is of the Lord’s mercies we are not consumed, even because his compassions fail not.”
And lastly, thou shalt perceive the inconceivable fitness and fulness of Christ as a Saviour,
and his never enough to be admired tenderness and condescending willingness to accept of humble,
heart broken, and heart-panting sinners after him, with such plainness of speech demonstrated,
as may enable the most bruised reed to quench all the fiery darts of the devil, whereby he
laboureth to affright them from making application to Jesus for salvation. Now that the Lord
would make those and such-like labours of his faithful servants useful and advantageous to
thy soul, Christian reader, is the prayer of thy servant in the gospel of our dearest Lord
and Saviour.

Sermon I.

At A Public Fast In July, First Sabbath, 1650.(257)

    Deut. xxxii. 4-7.—“He is the Rock, his work is perfect, for all
    his ways are judgment,” &c.

There are two things which may comprehend all religion,—the knowledge of God and of ourselves.
These are the principles of religion, and are so nearly conjoined together, that the one cannot
be truly without the other, much less savingly. It is no wonder that Moses craved attention,
and that, to the end he may attain it from an hard hearted deaf people, he turns to the heavens
and to the earth,—as it were to make them the more inexcusable. The matter of his song is both
divine and necessary. Throughout it all, he insists upon these two,—to discover what they were
in themselves, and what God was to them. He parallels their way with his way, that they, finding
the infinite distance, might have other thoughts of themselves and of him both. It is a song,
it is true, but a sad song. The people of God’s mourning should be of this nature,—mixed, not
pure sorrow. It is hard to determine whether there be more matter of consolation or lamentation,
when such a comparison is made to the life, when God’s goodness and our evils are set before
our eyes, which may most work the heart to such affections. Nay, I think it possible they may
both contribute to both these. Is there any more abasing and humbling principle than love?
How shall the sinner loathe himself in his glorious presence? Will not so much kindness and
mercy, so often repeated, as oft as it is mentioned, wound the heart in which there is any
tenderness? And, again, when a soul beholds its own ingratitude and evil requital of the Lord’s
kindness, how vile and how perverse it is, how must it loathe itself in dust and ashes! Yet
is not all ground of hope removed. Such a sad sight may make mixed affections. If we be so
perverse and evil, then he is infinitely good, and his mercy and goodness are above our evils;
if we have dealt so with him, yet is he the Rock that changes not, he is a God of truth, and
will not fail in his promise. Nay, though it be sad to be so evil, void of all goodness, yet
may the soul bless him for evermore, that he hath chosen this way to glorify his name, to build
up his praise upon our ruin. May not a soul thus glory in sad infirmities, because his strength
is perfected in them, and made manifest? May not a soul choose emptiness in itself, that it
may be beholden to his fulness? How refreshing a view might the saddest look on our misery
and emptiness be, if we did behold his purpose of manifesting his glory in it! You see here
a comparison instituted between two very unequal parties, God and man; there is no likeness,
let be equality in it, yet there is almost an equality in unlikeness. The one is infinitely
good and perfect; well, what shall we compare to him? Who is like thee, O God, among the gods?
Angels’ goodness, their perfection and innocency, hath not such a name and appearance in his
sight. So then, there can be no comparison made this way. Let no flesh glory in his sight in
anything, but, “let him that glorieth, glory in the Lord,” for in the sight of the glorious
Lord, all things do disappear and evanish. But surely nothing, though most perfect, can once
come within terms of reckoning beside him for any worth. Moses sees nothing to set beside God,
that will appear in its own greatness and native colours, but the creatures’ evil and sin;
and if this be not infinite absolutely, or equal to his goodness, yet it comes nearest the
borders of infiniteness. So then, is God most perfect? Is he infinite in goodness, in truth,
in righteousness, &c.—and so infinite, that before him nothing appears good?—“There is none
good save one, that is God.” Yet we may find another infinite, and it is in evil sinful man;
and these two contraries set beside other, do much illustrate each other. It is true that his
grace superabounds, and his goodness is more than the creatures’ sinfulness; yet, I say, you
shall not find anything that cometh nearer the infiniteness and degrees of his goodness, than
the sinfulness of men. How much the more glorious he appears, so much the more vile and base
doth it appear.

If ye did indeed ponder and weigh these two verses in the balance of the sanctuary, would not
your heart secretly ask this question within you, Do I thus requite the Lord? O foolish and
unwise! Yea, would you not account yourselves mad, to forsake the fountain of living waters,
and dig broken cisterns to yourselves? O of how great moment were this to humble yourselves
to-day! This day ye are called to mourning and afflicting your souls. Now, I know not a more
suitable exercise for a day of humiliation, or a principle that may more humble and abase your
souls, than the serious and deep consideration of these two,—what God is, and hath been to
us, and what we are, and have proved to him; what hath made so many formal humiliations that
have provoked him to anger? Certainly we do not either seriously think on any of these, or
if one of them, yet not on both. The most part of you know no more in such a day, but a name
and ceremony of a little abstinence. Is this to sanctify a day to the Lord,—when ye do not
so much as the people who bowed down their head for a day, and spread sackcloth under them?
I wonder how ye think to pacify his wrath, and are not rather afraid of adding fuel and oil
to the flame of his indignation. Ye come here and sit as in former times, and what do ye more
either here or at home? There is no soul-affliction, no, not for a day. The most part of you
are no more affected with your sins and his judgments, than if none of these things were. Now,
I pray you, what shall the Lord say to us, when he speaks to the Jews in such terms, Isa. lviii.
Is this then the fast that he will choose, to abstain from your breakfast in the morning, and
at night to compensate the want of it, and no more?(258) Is this an acceptable day to the Lord?
The Lord upbraids the Jews, “Wilt thou call this a fast?” And what reason have we to ask you,
is it possible ye think ye do indeed fast to the Lord? I cannot think that the most part of
you dare say, that ever ye fasted or afflicted your souls.

Always here is the way, if we consider it. To spend a day acceptably to the Lord, enter into
a serious consideration of his Majesty, and yourselves. Study on these two till ye find your
hearts bear the stamp of them, enlarge your hearts in the thoughts of them. Both are infinite,—his
goodness and power and mercy, and your sin and misery,—no end of them. Whatever ye find good
in God, write up answerably to it, so much evil and sin in yourselves and the land; and what
evil ye find in yourselves and the land, write up so much goodness and mercy in his account.
All the names of his praise would be so many grounds of your confusion in yourselves, and would
imprint so many notes of reproach and disgrace upon the creature found so contrary to him.
This is even the exercise God calls us to this day,—to consider his ways to us, and our ways
to him; how he hath walked, and how we have walked. Because ye lose the sight of these two,
he sends affliction,—because in our prosperity and peace we forget God, and so ourselves; as
ye find this people did, “when they waxed fat they kicked against him, and forgat that he was
their Rock.” We are so much taken up with our own ease and peace, that we do not observe him
in his dealings; therefore doth the Lord trouble our peace, remove those things we are taken
up with, make a public proclamation of affliction, and blessed be his name whose end is gracious.
He means this,—it is the proclamation of all his judgments,—turn your eyes off your present
ease here, consider what I am, and what yourselves are. No nation so soon buries the memory
of his mercies, O how soon are they drowned in oblivion! And we forget our own provocations
as suddenly. Therefore must he write our iniquities upon a rod, that we may read them in great
letters; and he writes his former goodness in the change of his dispensations, when his way
to us changes, that we may know what is past. This is the great design that God hath in the
world,—to declare himself and his own name, that it may be wondered and admired at by men,
and this cannot be but by our ruin, abasing us in the dust. He therefore uses to stain the
pride of all glory, that his alone may appear without spot. This is then the great controversy
of God with men and nations in all generations. They will not see him alone exalted, and will
not bow before him, and see their own vileness. Why doth he overturn kingdoms and thrones?
Why doth he shake nations so often? Here it is; God’s controversy will never cease, till all
men acknowledge him in his highness and holiness, as the sole fountain of all life, and find
themselves vile, less than nothing, nay, worse than nothing, and emptiness. If ye would then
have God at peace with the land and yourselves, here is the compendious way,—set him up a throne
of eminency in your hearts, and put yourselves in the dust, take with your own guiltiness and
naughtiness, and impossibility to help yourselves in yourselves. Hold these two still in your
eyes, that he may be alone exalted.

Look how unequal a match, ver. 4, 5, “He is the Rock,” a rock indeed!  If we speak of strength,
lo! he is strong; if of stability, he is the Lord, and changes not, “the Ancient of days.”
Hast not thou heard and considered this, that the Almighty faints not, and wearies not? He
holds forth himself in such a name to his people, a ready, all-sufficient, perpetual, and enduring
refuge to all that trust in him, and fly unto him as a rock higher than they. And this is the
foundation that the church is builded on, against which the gates of hell shall not prevail.
God’s omnipotency is for defence, his eternity, faithfulness, and unchangeableness to make
that sure. His mercy and goodness makes a hole in that rock to enter in, a ready access for
poor shipwrecked and broken men, who have no other refuge. This is our rock, on which the church
is builded, Jesus Christ, 1 Cor. x. 4.; Matt. xvi. 18. Were God inaccessible in himself, an
impregnable rock, how would sinners overcome him, and enter in to him to be saved from wrath?
Nay but Jesus Christ hath made a plain way and path, out of the waves of sin and misery, into
this rock higher than we; and so the poor soul that is lost in its own eyes, and sees no refuge,
is forced to quit the broken ship of created confidence, for fear of perishing. Here doth it
find a door in this rock to enter. And there is water to drink of, “a fountain of living waters”
comes out of it, and that is Christ.

Now, all these names of his praise rub so many marks of shame on his people. O how sad is the
secret reproof and expostulation contained in this commendation of God! He hath been a rock
to us, our refuge that we fled unto, and found sure; for as, in our straits, we mounted upon
his power and were supported, when “the floods lifted up their waves,” yet have we left our
rock, gone out from our strength. He offers himself a rock unto us, his fulness and all-sufficiency
for us, and yet we leave the fountain of living waters, and dig broken cisterns, had rather
choose our own broken ships in which to toss up and down. He abides for ever the same; though
we change, he changes not. How may it reprove our backslidings, that we depart from our rock!
And where shall we find a refuge in the day of indignation? Is there any created mountain,
but some floods of the time will cover? Therefore it is folly and madness to forsake this rock
that is still above the floods; “he is mightier than the noise of many waters.” It may reprove
our unbelief,—we change our faith according to his dispensation, our faith ebbs and flows as
the tide of his providence, and thus we are as sticks floating in the water, tossed up and
down. But would ye be established as mount Sion? Would ye be unmoveable in the midst of great
waters, that they shall not come near unto you? Then, by all means get upon this rock, that
abides unmoved in the midst of the waves. Though they should beat upon it, and the wind blow,
yet it is proof of all tempests. All things might be driven up and down about you with the
Lord’s dispensation, but ye should abide the same, and might look round about you on the troubled
sea of men’s minds, of lands and estates. If you come here, ye may make shipwreck, but ye shall
not drown; though ye lose the creature’s comfort and defence, yet ye are on your rock, which
is established before the rocks and mountains. You may be sure of salvation. He that made the
rocks and winds and seas, is your rock.

“His work is perfect.” As he doth not trouble himself when all is troubled about him, so he
keeps him also in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on him; so also what he doth among men,
though it cannot pass without man’s censure, yet it is in itself perfect, complete, without
spot or defect. What is the subject of all men’s questions, doubts, complaints, censures, expostulations,
and such like, of which the world is full? It is some one work of God or other; there is no
work of his providence, but some man finds a fault in it, and would be at the mending of it.
Neque Deus cum pluit, omnibus placet:(259) if he give rain, he displeases many; if he withhold
it again, we are as little pleased. The reason of all this misconstruction is, we look on his
work by parcels,(260) and take it not whole and entire. [Viewed] so, it is perfect, and cannot
be made better. “His works are perfect,” in relation to the beginning and original of them,
his own everlasting purpose. Men often bring forth works by guess, by their purpose, so no
wonder it answer not their desire. But “known to him are all his works from the beginning,”
and so he doth nothing in time, but what was his everlasting pleasure. Often we purpose well,
and resolve perfectly, but our practice is a cripple, execution of it is maimed and imperfect.
But all his works are carved out, and done just as he designed them, without the least alteration;
and, if it had not been well, would he have thought on it so, and resolved it beforehand? His
works are perfect, in relation to the end to which he appointed them. It may be it is not perfect
in itself: a blind eye is not so perfect as a seeing eye; nay, but in relation to the glory
of his name, who hath a purpose to declare his power by restoring that sight, it is as perfect.
And in this sense, all the imperfection of the creatures and creation, all of them are perfect
works, for they accomplish the end wherefore they were sent; and so the night declares his
name, and utters a speech as well as the day, the winter as the summer, the wilderness as the
fruitful field. For what is the perfection of the creature, but in as far as it accomplishes
his purpose and end, as the maker of it serves himself with it? And therefore all his work
is perfect, for it is all framed in wisdom to his own ends, in number, measure, and weight;
it is so exactly agreeing to that, that you could not imagine it better. Again, his work is
perfect, if we take it altogether, and do not cut it in parcels, and look on it so. Is there
any workmanship beautiful, if ye look upon it in the doing? While the timber lies in one part,
and the stones in another, is that a perfect building? When ye see one arm here, another there,
and a leg scattered beside them, hath that image any comeliness? Certainly no; but look upon
these united, and then they are perfect. Letters and syllables make no sense, till ye conjoin
them in words, and words in sentences. Even so is it here; if ye look on the day alone, the
light of it being perpetual would weary us, the night alone would be more so; but the interchange
of them is pleasant,—day and night together make a distinct language of God’s praise. So God
hath set prosperity and adversity the one over against the other. One of them, it may be, seems
imperfect; nay, but it is a perfect work that is made up of both. Spots in the face commend
the beauty of the rest of it.

If ye would then look upon God’s work aright, look on it in the sanctuary’s light, and ye shall
say, “He hath done all well.” Join the end with the beginning, and behold they agree very well.
Many things among us seem out of order, many things uncomplete, The reformation of England,
how great obstruction was in the way of it? Is that now a perfect work? Yes, certainly; for
if we knew his end and purpose, it is very well, and could not be bettered by the art of all
men; “his thoughts are far above our thoughts.” The prosperous and uninterrupted success of
that party in England, is it a perfect work? Yes, certainly; for if ye could behold their end,
ye would say so; “they are set in slippery places, their foot shall slide in due time.”(261)

Entertain this thought in your heart, that he hath done all well. Let not your secret thoughts
so much as call them in question. If once ye question, ye will quickly censure them.    Hold
this persuasion, that nothing can be better than what he doth, nothing can be added, and nothing
diminished from them, he doth all in number, weight, and measure. It is so exactly correspondent
to his purpose and design, as if it were weighed out, and measured out for that end.

Let this secretly reprove your hearts. The perfection of his works stains our works. O how
imperfect are they! And which is worse, how impudent and bold are we to censure his, and absolve
our own? If he have a hand in our work, these imperfect works are perfect in regard of him.
As we have a hand in his perfect works, his perfect works are imperfect in regard of us.

Sermon II.

    Deut. xxxii. They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not
    the spot of his children,” &c.

There are none can behold their own vileness as it is, but in the sight of God’s glorious holiness.
Sin is darkness, and neither sees itself, nor any thing else, therefore must his light shine
to discover this darkness. If we abide within ourselves, and men like ourselves, we cannot
wisely judge ourselves, our dim sparkle will not make all the imperfections and spots appear.
But, if men would come forth into the presence of his Majesty, who turns darkness into light,
and before whom hell is naked,—O how base and vile would they appear in their own eyes!  Is
it any wonder that the multitude of you see not yourselves, when holy Isaiah and Job had this
lesson to learn? Isaiah gets a discovery of his own uncleanness in the sight of God’s glorious
holiness, (chap. vi. 5,) which I think made all his former light darkness. He cries out “unclean,”
as if he had never known it before, and so Job, “Since I saw thee I abhorred myself in dust
and ashes.” Ye hear much of him, and it doth not abase you, but if ye saw him, ye would not
abide yourselves; ye would prefer the dust you tread on to yourselves. Ye who know most, there
is a mystery of iniquity in your hearts, that is not yet discerned, ye are but yet on the coast
of that bottomless sea of abomination and vileness. Among all the aggravations of sin, nothing
doth so demonstrate the folly, yea, the madness of it, as the perfection, goodness, and absolute
unspottedness of God. It is this that takes away all pretence of excuse, and leaves the same
nothing—no place in which to hide its confusion and nakedness and shame. And therefore it is
that Moses, when he would convince this people of their ways, and make them inexcusable, draws
the parallel of God’s ways and their ways, declares what God is, how absolutely perfect in
himself, and in his works, who had given no cause of provocation to them to depart from him,
and then, how odious must their departing be! When both are painted on a board before their
eyes it makes sin become exceedingly sinful. When the Lord would pierce the hearts of his people,
and engrave a challenge with the point of a diamond, he useth this as his pen,—“Have I been
a wilderness unto Israel? a land of darkness? Why say my people, We are lords, we will come
no more to thee?” Jer. ii. 31.  “What iniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are
gone far from me, and have walked after vanity?” Jer. ii. 5.

There are two things in sin that exceedingly abuse the creature,—the iniquity of it, and the
folly and madness of it. It is contrary to all equity and reason to depart from him that hath
made us, and given us a law, to whom we are by so many obligations tied, but what is the folly
and madness of it, to depart from the fountain of living waters, and dig broken cisterns that
can hold none? verse 13.  This is a thing that the heavens may be astonished at, and, if the
earth had sense to understand such a thing, the whole fabric of it would tremble for horror
at such madness and folly of reasonable souls and this evil hath two evils in it,—we forsake
life and love death, go from him and choose vanity. It is great iniquity to depart without
an offence on his part. He may appeal to all our consciences, and let them sit down and examine
his way most narrowly,—“What iniquity have ye found in me? What cause have ye to leave me!”
But when withal he is a living fountain, he is our glory, he is a fruitful land, a land of
light, our ornament and attire, in a word, our life and our consolation, our happiness and
our beauty; what word shall be found to express the extreme madness of men to depart from such
an one, and change their glory into that which doth not profit? If either he were not a fountain
of living waters, or if there were any fountain beside, that could yield water to satisfy the
insatiable desires of men, it were more excusable, but what shadow shall be found to cover
such an iniquity that is both infinite sin, and incompatable loss? It is the scripture’s style
given to natural men, “fools and simple.” All sin hath folly in it, but the people of God’s
departing from him hath extremity of folly in it, beside iniquity, because they do embrace
a dunghill instead of a throne, they make the maddest exchange that can be imagined, glory
for shame, life for death,—at least, consolation and peace, for vanity and vexation and anguish
of spirit.

If ye would be duly affected with the sight of your own evils, look upon them in this consideration,
and, in the view of God, your large portion, ye will be forced to confess yourselves beasts
in his sight, Psal. lxxiii. 22. Oh! that men would consider how good and blessed the Lord is,
how he is alone, and nothing beside him in heaven and earth,—all broken cisterns, all dung
and unprofitable, all vanity and vexation,—he only self-sufficient, all others insufficient,
and therefore a proportioned good for our necessity and desires, and I am sure ye would be
constrained to cry out with David, “Whom have I in heaven but thee, or in the earth beside
thee? It is good for me to draw near to God.” Ye would look on drawing near, and walking with
him, and before him, not only as the most reasonable thing, but the best thing, most beautiful
for you, most profitable for you, and all other ways would be looked on as the ways of death.

“His work is perfect.” The Lord looked, and behold all was good that was made. So it was at
first. The fabric of this world was an exquisite and perfect work, a suitable demonstration
of his infinite wisdom, wonderful in all the parts of it, and in the unity and harmony of the
whole. But so also his work of providence is perfect. Divine wisdom hath framed and contrived
all, and it cannot be better. If anything seem imperfect in itself, yet it is perfect in relation
to his glorious ends he directs it unto. And so would we look on all the works among us. If
anything seemed a spot and disgrace of the creation, certainly the sin of men and angels,—nay,
but even that is so ordered by his holy sovereignty, that in relation to his majesty, it may
be called a perfect work. If ye do but consider what a glorious high throne he hath erected
to himself for justice and judgment to be the habitation of it, and mercy and truth to go before
it upon the ruins of defaced man, what a theatre of justice he hath erected upon the angels
fall, ye would call it as perfect a work as is in the world. His work is one in the world,
subordinate to one great design of manifesting his own glorious justice and mercy, omnipotency
and wisdom. Now what do ye see of it but parcels? Though ye comprehend all your time in one
thought, yet certainly ye cannot judge it aright, for it is but one work that all the several
buildings and castings down, all the several dispensations of his providence, from the beginning
to the end, make up, and when we think upon these disjoined, limit our consideration within
the bounds of our own time, can we rightly apprehend it? Nay, which is worse, we use to have
no more within the compass of our thought, but some present thing, and how much more do we
err then? What beauty, what perfection can such a small part have? But it is present to him,
who beholds with a glance all these parts. Though succeeding in many generations, he sees it
altogether, joins the end with the beginning, sees the first mould, the first foundation stone,
and the last completing, all flowing from himself, and returning thither, and ending in himself.
He hath made an interchange in nature, which might teach us—the night alone hath no beauty.
Nay, but it beautifies the day. Your darkest hours and tempests, public and personal, are they
perfect works? Yes, certainly, if ye compound them with your sunshines and calms. Several colours
make pictures beautiful,—the one is as needful as the other, and if ye did consider your profit
more than your honour and pleasure, ye would say so. He doth not model his works according
to our fancy to please us, but our good to profit us, and he is wiser than we, and so then
it is the most perfect work in itself, that possibly displeaseth us most. Therefore ye would
judge of his dealing by another rule than your own satisfaction, for please you and perish
you. If he spared the rod, he should hate us indeed, fond love is real hatred. Christians,
if ye would judge his works by his word, and not by your sense,—by your well, and not by your
will, certainly we would say, as the men did of Christ, “He hath done all well.” The world
would discover to you a perfection, even in imperfection, a perfection in infirmities, that
ye should not only rejoice in them, but glory in them. “Most gladly therefore will I glory,”
&c. saith Paul.  Are infirmities a perfect work? Or is the suffering of Paul, to be buffetted
and tempted, a perfect work? What comfort is in it? Yes, much.  Infirmities alone are infirmities
indeed, nay but infirmities in me, and strength in Jesus, weakness in me, and strength dwelling
in me,—these make up one perfect work that could as little want the infirmities as the strength.
The glory of God, and our well and consolation, require the one, as well as the other, they
could not be complete without any of them. What do ye think of the times now? Are England’s
apostacy, and Ireland’s desolation,(262) perfect works? That great work of reformation, that
seemed to be above our shoulders, is now razed to the ground, and the very foundations removed?
Is deformation a perfect work?  Certainly, if we look on these things in the scripture’s light,
and consider them in relation to him who is the chief builder, and doth in heaven and earth
what he pleaseth, that deformation is a perfect work, though not a perfect reformation. Though
we could not inform you of the perfection of it, yet the general might silence us; all this
shall be no miss, no mar in the end.  His work, at the end of accounts, shall appear so complete,
as if it had never had interruption.  He is wise, and knows what he doth, if this were not
for his glory and his people’s good, certainly it should not be.  Was not the people wandering
in the wilderness forty years a most strange work—a longer interruption of the expected and
begun voyage out of Egypt?  What human reason would have styled this work with perfection?
Did they not often murmur against it? Yet Moses calls this a perfect work also.  What if the
Lord be digging the ground deeper in England, that the foundation may be the surer?  What if
he be on a work of judgment, filling the cup of many deluded blasphemers, that he may have
another cup of wrath prepared?  What if this be his great purpose, to execute vengeance upon
a profane generation, that will not abide the very name and form of godliness, by those who
pretend to the name of it as their honour? May ye not give him so much credit, as ye would
give to a skilful man in his own trade?  Ye know it is his name, “excellent in counsel, and
wonderful in working.”  Then take his work, expound it according to his word, and not your
apprehension.  It may be his work appears not excellent, nay, but if ye knew his counsel, ye
would think it so.  His wonderful counsel makes all his works excellent, and therefore do not
take upon you to judge his works unless ye could wade the depth of his counsels, else ye declare
yourselves to be both ignorant and presumptuous. “There is a time to build, and a time to cast
down, a time for every thing,” saith the wise man.  Now, I say, he knows the time and season,
he does every thing in his time.  If ye come by a workman that is casting down a house that
in your appearance seems good, would ye condemn him presently? No, but stay till ye see what
he will do next, wait till the due time, and when ye see a better piece of workmanship on that
ground, ye shall absolve him. Though God often change his work, do not think he changes his
counsel and purposes as men do, no, “he is in one mind, and who can turn him?” Therefore he
had that change in his mind when he made the work, when he erected such a throne, he had this
in his mind to cast it down within such a space, and so his change—his throwing down—is as
perfect in his mind, as his building up. Ye have large and big apprehensions of temporal kingdoms
and crowns of government, and such like, as if they were great, yea, only things, but they
are not so to him. All this world and its standing, all the kingdoms and their affairs are
not his great work and business. He hath a great work, the bringing of many sons to glory,
and the completing of Jesus Christ; building of that glorious mystical building, the holy temple
made up of living stones, of which Christ is the foundation, and chief corner-stone both, and
it is this that he attends to most. Other works among men, though they have more noise, they
are less concerned. All these are but in the by, and subservient to his great design, and like
the scaffolds of a building, that are, it may be, sometimes very needful. Nay, but when the
building is completed, he shall remove all these, he hath no more use of them: kings shall
be thy nurse fathers, kings shall bow to thee. He is not much concerned in government nor in
governors, but for his little flock’s sake, and if these were gathered, all these shall have
an end, and the flock alone abide for ever.

“And all his ways are judgment.” This is to the same purpose,—his ways and his works are one.
And this is the perfection of his work, that it is all right and equal; whether they be in
justice or mercy, they are all righteous and holy, no iniquity in them, his ways are straight
and equal, exact as if they were measured by an exact even rule, but because we make application
of a crooked rule to them, we do imagine that they are crooked, as the blind man judges no
light to be, because he sees it not. How may the Lord contend and plead with us, as with that
people, Ezek. xviii. 25. Is it possible that any can challenge him and clear themselves, who
will be justified of all when he is judged, and before whom no flesh can be justified? And
yet, behold the iniquity of men’s hearts. There is a secret reflection of our spirits upon
his Majesty, as if his ways were not equal, whenever we repine against them, and when we do
not take with our iniquity, and stop our mouths with dust. Behold, the Lord will assert his
own ways, and plead with all flesh this controversy, that all his proceedings are full of equity.
He walks according to a rule, though he be not tied to a rule. He walks according to the rules
of wisdom, justice, and mercy, though his illimited sovereignty might be a sufficient ground
of clearing of all his proceedings. But we walk not according to a rule, though we be bound
to a rule, and a rule full of equity.

Here is the equity and justice of his ways, the gospel holds it forth in a twofold consideration.
First, If any man turn from his iniquity, and flee unto my Son as the city of refuge, he shall
live, he hath eternal life, iniquity shall not be his ruin, although he hath done iniquity.
O “who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity!” Is not this complete mercy? Whatever
iniquity hath been, aggravate it as ye can, though it could have ruined a world yet it could
not have ruined thee that turnest in to Jesus Christ from iniquity. What exception can all
the world have against this, or his walking according to it? And on the other hand, whosoever
continueth in sin, though he appear to himself and others never so righteous, if he entertain
and love any known sin, and will not part with it for Jesus Christ, shall not he die in his
iniquity? Is there any iniquity in this, that he receive the wages of his works—his reward
that he eat of the fruit of his own ways, and drink of his own devices? But how many hearts
censure this way as a rigid and strict severe dealing! The multitude think it cruelty to condemn
any christened soul—to put so many in hell. The civil man will think it is too hard measure
that he should be ranked in hell with the profane. But certainly, all mouths shall be stopped
one day, and he shall be justified when he judges. Ye that will not justify him in his sayings,
and set to your seal to the truth of the word, you shall be constrained to justify him, when
he executes that sentence. Ye shall precipitate your own sentence, and rather wonder at his
clemency in suffering you so long.

This way of the Lord is equal and right in itself, but it is not so to every one. The just
man shall walk in it and not stumble; as in an even way, nothing shall offend him, Hosea xiv.
last verse. Yet for as equal and straight as it is, many other transgressors shall fall therein;
they stumble even in the noon-day and highway, where no offence is. It is true, often his own
people stumble in it, as David, Psal. lxxiii, and xciv. David’s foot was slipping, yet a secret
hold was by mercy. It often requires a wise and prudent man to understand it, because his footsteps
are in the deep waters; Psal. lxxxvii. 19. His way is in the depths of the sea, his paths in
great waters, so that men must wait till the Lord expound his own ways, till he come out of
the waters, and make them a dry plain. And this is our advantage; the word says, “He is near
thee, in thy mouth, and neither above, nor beneath in the depths, that thou needest neither
descend nor ascend to know it,” Deut. xxx. 11-14. But his way is in the depths, and his footsteps
are not known, so that we ought to hold us by the word till he expound his work. His word will
teach us our duty, and we may commit unto him his own way; the word is a commentary to expound
his ways. David lost the sight of God’s footsteps and was like to wander, till he came to the
sanctuary, and this shined as a candle in a dark place; he learned there to know the unknown
footsteps and to follow them. By all means embrace the word, and be satisfied with it, when
ye do not comprehend his work; it teaches as much in general, as may put us to quietness; all
his ways are judgment, just and true in all his ways is the King of saints. If I do not comprehend
how it is,—no wonder, for he makes darkness his covering, he spreads over his most curious
engines and pieces of workmanship a vail of darkness for a season; and “who can behold him
when he hides himself?” says Job; and though he withdraw the covering, yet what am I? “Who
can by searching find out God?” If I shall examine his way, what rule shall I take to try it
by? If I measure by my shallow capacity, or by my crooked way, shall I have any just account
of it? Will my arm measure the heavens as his doth? If I examine it, or try it by himself,
he is high as heaven and unsearchable. Therefore it becomes us to hearken to his word, and
believe its sentence of his work, when reason cannot comprehend it.

One thing, if it were deeply engraven on our hearts, would be a principle, of settling our
spirits, in all the mysteries and riddles of providence,—the knowledge and faith of his sovereignty,
of his highness, and of his wisdom. Should he give account of his matters to us? He is wise
and knows his works; but is he bound to make us know them? His ways are above our thoughts
and ways, as heaven is above the earth, Isa. lv. And therefore, O grasshopper in the earth,
that dwelleth in tabernacles of clay, do not presume to model his ways according to thy conceptions.
One thing is certain,—this is enough for faith, “all his ways are mercy and truth to those
that keep his covenant and his testimonies,” Psal. xxv. 10. And there is no way or path of
God so far above our reach, and unsearchable, as his mercy in pardoning sin; and this is only
the satisfying answer to all your objections and scruples. In these ye do but vent your own
thoughts: but says the Lord, my thoughts are above your thoughts, as heaven above earth. Ye
but speak of your own ways, but my ways are far above yours, they are not measured by your
iniquity; and therefore, David subjoins, Psal. xxv. ver. 11, “Pardon my iniquity, for it is great.”

Sermon III.

    Deut. xxxii. They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not
    the spot of his children. They are a perverse and crooked
    generation.”

“All his ways are judgment,” both the ways of his commandments and the ways of his providence,
both his word which he hath given as a lantern to men’s paths, and his works among men. And
this were the blessedness of men, to be found walking in his ways, and waiting on him in his
ways, having respect to all his commandments, and respect to himself in all his works. We all
know in general that he doth all well, and that all his commandments are holy and just. Nay,
but our practice and affections belie our knowledge; and for the most part, we stand cross
in our humours, and affections, and conversation, both to his word and providence, and this
is our misery. “Great peace have they that love thy law.” What peace then can keep that heart
and mind that is daily at variance with his statutes and judgments, when the heart would wish
such a command were not, when it is an eyesore to look upon it? “Blessed are the meek.” “It
is good for a man, both quietly to wait, and hope, and keep silence.” How then must that spirit
be miserable, that stands cross unto God’s dispensations, and would limit the Holy One! Do
not our hearts often say, “I do well to be angry, why is it thus with me?” But, “who hath hardened
himself against him and prospered?” His counsel must stand; and you may vex yourself, and disquiet
your soul in the mean time, by impatience, but you cannot by your thought add one cubit to
your stature. You may make your case worse than providence hath made it, but you cannot make
it better by so doing, so that at length you must bow to him or be broken. Oh then that this
were engraven on our hearts with the point of a diamond! “All his ways are judgment;” that
ye might be overcome with the equity of his command and dispensation, and your heart and tongue
might not move against them. It was enough of old with the saints, “It is the Lord, let him
do what seems good in his eyes.” God’s sovereignty alone pondered, may stop our mouth; but,
if ye withal consider, it is perfect equity that rules all, it is divine wisdom that is the
square of his works; then how ought we to stoop cheerfully unto them! One thing, ye would remember,
his ways and paths are judgment, and if you judge aright of him, ye must judge his way and
not his single footsteps. Ye will not discern equity and judgment in one step or two; but consider
his way, join adversity with prosperity, humbling with exalting; take along the thread of his
providence, and one part shall help you to understand another. There is reason in all, but
the reason is not visible to us in so small parts of his way and work.

“A God of truth.” Strange it is that his majesty is pleased to clothe himself with so many
titles and names for us. He considers what our necessity is, and accordingly expresses his
own name. I think nothing doth more hold forth the unbelief of men, and atheism of our hearts,
than the many several titles that God takes in scripture. There is a necessity of a multitude
of them, to make us take up God; because we staying upon a general notion of God, rather frame
in our imaginations an idol than the true God. As there is nothing doth more lively represent
the unbelief of our hearts, than the multitude of promises; men that consider such frequent
repetitions of one thing in scripture, so many divers expressions of one God, may retire into
their own hearts, and find the cause of it, even the necessity of it. But while we look so
slightly on these, we must judge it superfluous and vain. Needed there any more to be said,
but, “I am your God, I am God,” if our spirits were not so far degenerated unto atheism and
unbelief? Certainly that word Jehovah holds forth more to angels than all the inculcated names
and titles of God to us, because we are dull and slow of heart. Therefore wonder at these two
when ye read the scriptures, God’s condescendency to us, and our atheism and unbelief of him:
they are both mysteries, and exceeding broad. There is not a name of God, but it gives us a
name, and that of reproach and dishonour, so that for every one, some evil may be written down.
And it is to this purpose Moses draws them out in length, that in the glass of his glorious
name, the people might behold their own ugly face. This name is clear, “he is a God of truth,”
not only a true God, but truth itself: to note his excellency and eminency in it. It is Christ’s
name, “I am the truth,” the substantial truth, in whom all the promises are truth, “are yea
and amen.” His truth is his faithfulness in performing his promises, and doing what his mouth
hath spoken: and this is established “in the very heavens,” Psal. lxxxix. 2. His everlasting
purpose is in heaven where he dwells; and if any man can ascend up to heaven, if any creature
can break through the clouds, then may his truth be shaken. His word comes down among men;
nay, but the foundation of it is in heaven, and there is his purpose established; and therefore,
there is nothing done in time can impair or hinder it. Ye think this world very sure, the earth
hangs unmoveable, though it hang upon nothing. All the tumults, confusions, and reels which
have been in the world have never moved it to the one side. Heaven goeth about in one tenour
perpetually, keeping still the same distance. Nay, but his truth is more established than so.
Heaven and earth depend but upon a word of command, he hath said, “Let it be so,” and so it
is. Nay, but his word is more established. Of it saith Christ, one jot or tittle of it cannot
fail, though heaven and earth should fail. He may change his commands as he pleases, but he
may not change his promise, this puts an obligation on him, as he is faithful and true, to
perform it, and when an oath is superadded, O how immutable are these two!—when he promises
in his truth and swears in his holiness. Is there any power in heaven and earth can break that
double cord? Matth. v. 18, Heb. vi. 18. There is no name of God but it is comfortable to some,
and as terrible to others. What comfort is it to a godly man that trusts in his word, he is
a God of truth! An honest man’s word is much, his oath is more. What shall his word be who
is a God of truth? Though all men should be liars, yet God is true. Ye who have ventured your
souls on his word, ye have an unspeakable advantage, his truth endures for ever, and it is
established in the heavens, the ground of it is without beginning, the end of it without end.
Ye are more sure than the frame of heaven and earth, for all these shall wax old as a garment.
We speak of a naked word of truth, indeed it is no naked word that is God’s word. His works
of providence, and his dispensation to you, is a naked and bare foundation, nay, a sandy foundation,
and ye who lean so much to them, is it any wonder ye so often shake and waver? All other grounds
beside the word are uncertain, unstable, this only endures for ever. The creature’s goodness
and perfection is but as the grass, and the flower of the field. Venture not much on your dispositions
and frames, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth, but his truth is to all generations,
and it is well tried as gold seven times,—all generations have tried it and found it better
than pure gold. His dispensations are arbitrary—no rule to you. He loveth to declare his sovereignty
here and to expatiate in the creature’s sight beyond its conceiving, but he hath limited himself
in his word and come down to us, and laid bonds on himself. Will he then untie them for us?
Give him liberty where he loves it, take him bound where be binds himself. How may God expostulate
with this generation, as those of little faith? “How long shall I be with you?” saith Christ.
How long will Christians tempt the Lord in seeking signs, and will not rest upon his only word
and promises? “O adulterous generation, how long shall I be with you and ye will not believe?”
Is it not righteousness in him, either to give you no sign at all, or to give you a sign darker
than the thing itself, as he did to the Pharisees? Ye will give credit to a man’s word, and
will ye not believe God’s? An honest man will get more trust of us, than the true and living
God! Shall he not be offended with this? We declare it unto you, that he is truth itself, and
will not fail in his promise, let that be your castle and refuge to enter into. Mercy and truth
are two sweet companions to go along with you in your pilgrimage. David prayed for them Psal.
lxi. 7. “O prepare thy mercy and truth to preserve me.” Who will not be safe within these everlasting
arms? What power can break through them? And this he promised to himself, (Psal. lvii. 3.)
God shall send them out. Mercy made so many precious promises, and truth keeps them. Mercy
is the fountain and source of all our consolation, and truth and faithfulness convey it to
us, and keep it for us. It is these two that go before his face when he sits on a throne of
majesty, and makes himself accessible to sinners (Psalm lxxxix. 14,) and so they are the pathway
he walks in towards those who seek him, Psalm xxv. 10.

But this sweet and precious name, that is as ointment poured forth to those who love him, how
doth it smell of death to those who walk contrary to him? “He is a God of truth” to execute
his threatenings on those who despise his commands, and though ye flatter yourselves in your
own eyes, and cry, “Peace, peace,” even though ye walk in the imagination of your own heart,
yet certainly “he is a God of truth.” I pray you read that sad and weighty word, that will
be like a millstone about many men’s necks to sink them in hell, Deut. xxix. 20, 21, ye who
“add drunkenness to thirst,” whose rule of walking is your own lust, and whatsoever pleaseth
you, without respect of his commands, and yet flatter yourselves with a dream of peace, know
this for a truth, “the Lord will not spare thee, he that made thee will not have mercy on thee.
His jealousy will smoke against thee, and all the curses written in this book shall be upon
thee, and thy name shall be blotted out from under heaven.” It was unbelief of God’s threatening
that first ruined man, it is this still that keeps so many from the remedy, and makes their
misery irrecoverable. The serpent brought them to this question, “Hath God said ye shall die.”
And then presently the question entertained becometh a conclusion, Ye shall not surely die.
Thus ye see how the liar, from the beginning, was contrary to the God of truth, and he murdered
us by lying of that God of truth, and it is the same that shuts out all hope of remedy. Ye
do not as yet believe and consider that curse that was pronounced against Adam, but is now
also inflicted upon us, therefore, there is no solid belief can be of the promises of the gospel,
and ye who think ye believe the gospel, do but indeed fancy it, except ye have considered the
true curse of God on all flesh. But if any man have set to his seal that God is true in his
threatening, and subscribed unto the law, then, I beseech you, add not the unbelief of the
gospel unto your former disobedience. He is “a God of truth,” in promises and threatenings.
It is strange how untoward and froward we are,—a perverse generation. We do not believe his
threatenings, but fancy we receive his promises, or else, believing his threatenings we question
his promises. But know this for a truth, his last word is more weighty, and the unbelief of
it is most dangerous. Ye have not kept his commands, and so the curse is come upon you? Do
ye believe that? If ye do, then the gospel speaks unto you, the God of truth hath one word
more, “He that believes shall be saved,” notwithstanding of all his breaking of the law. If
ye do not set your seal to this also, then ye say he is not a God of truth, ye say he is a
liar. And as for you who have committed your souls to him, as to a faithful keeper, and acquiesced
unto his word of promise for salvation, think how unsuitable it is for you to distrust him
in other lesser things. Ye have the promise of this life, whoever hath the promises of the
life to come. Therefore do not make him a liar in these. He is “a God of truth,” and will let
you want no good thing. “Say to the righteous, it shall be well with him, whatever be.” Let
heaven and earth mix through other, yet ye may be as mount Sion unmoved in the midst of many
floods, because of the promises.

“Without iniquity.” Who doubts of that, say ye? What needs this be added? Who charges him with
iniquity or sin? Nay, but stay and consider, and you shall find great weight in this. It is
true, none dare charge him openly, or speak in express terms against his holiness, yet, if
we judge of our own and other’s practices and dispositions, as the Lord useth to construct
of them, if we resolve our murmurings, impatience, self absolutions, and excuses to hold off
convictions, into plain language, if we would translate them into a scripture style, certainly
it will be found that the most part of men, if not all, use to impute iniquity to God, and
accuse him rather than take with accusations laid against themselves. And therefore the Lord
useth to go to law with his people. He who is the judge of the world, that cannot do unrighteousness,
he who is the potter, and we all the clay, yet he so far condescends to us for convincing us,
as sometimes to refer the controversy between him and his people to other creatures, as Micah
vi. 2. He calls the mountains and the foundations of the earth to judge between him and his
people, and sometimes he appeals unto their own consciences and is content, though judge, to
stand and be judged by those who were guilty, as ver. 3 and Jer. ii. ver. 5, and 31. All this
supposes, that when the Lord would endeavour to convince them of iniquity, they did rather
recriminate, and took not with their own faults. This is a truth generally acknowledged by
all, “He who is the judge of the world doth no iniquity,” but O! that ye considered it, till
the meditation of it were engraven on your spirits, the seal of God’s holiness, that ye might
fear before him, and never call him to account for his matters. Who can say, I have purged
my heart from iniquity? Among men the holiest are defiled with it, and so are all their actions.
But here is one that ye may give him an implicit faith so to speak, he is “a God of truth,”
and can speak no lie, he does no iniquity, and cannot do wrong to any man. Would there be so
much impatience amongst you, and fretting against his dispensations, if ye believed this solidly?
Would ye repine against his holy and just ways, were it not to charge God with iniquity? Your
murmuring and grudging at his dispensations is with child of blasphemies, and he who can search
the reins sees it, and constructs so of it. You say by interpretation, that if ye had the government
of your own matters, or of kingdoms, ye would order them better than he doth. How difficult
a thing is it to persuade men to take with their own iniquity! O how many excuses and pretences,
how many extenuations are used that this conviction may not pierce deeply! But all this speaks
so much blasphemy,—that iniquity is in God. Ye cannot take with your own iniquities, but ye
charge his Majesty with iniquity.

“Just and right is he.” Is this any new thing? Was it not said already, that he is “without
uniquity, and his ways judgment?” But, alas! how ignorant are we of God, and slow of heart
to conceive of him as he is, therefore is there “line upon line, and precept upon precept,”
and name upon name, if it be possible, that at length we may apprehend God as he is. Alas!
our knowledge is but ignorance, our light darkness, while it is shut up in the corner of our
mind, and shines not into the heart, and hath no influence on our practice. And the truth is,
the belief of divine truths is almost no more but a not contradicting them, we do not seriously
think of them as either to consent to them, or deny them. Is there any consideration amongst
us now of God’s justice and righteousness, though it be frequently spoken of? And what advantage
shall we have if ye do not consider them? O how hard is it to persuade men’s hearts of this,
that God is just, and will by no means acquit the guilty? There are so many delusions drunk
in in men’s hearts, contrary to his truth. “Let no man deceive you,” “be not deceived” with
vain words, “know ye not,” saith our apostle. These are strange prefaces. Would ye not think
the point of truth subtile that there needed so much prefacing unto it? and yet what is it?
Even that which all men grant,—God’s wrath comes on the children of disobedience, but, alas!
few men consider, but deceive themselves with dreams of escaping it. Though men know it, yet
they know it not, for they walk as if they knew no such thing.

Always however this is of little moment to affect our spirits now, yet in the day that God
shall set your iniquities before your face, and set his justice also before your eyes. O how
sad and serious a thing will it be then! If these two verses were engraven on our hearts,—God’s
justice and holiness, our corruption and vileness,—I think there would be other thoughts among
us than there are.

Sermon IV.

    Deut. xxxii. 5.—“They have corrupted themselves; their spot is not
    the spot of his children; they are a perverse and crooked
    generation.”

We doubt this people would take well with such a description of themselves as Moses gives.
It might seem strange to us, that God should have chosen such a people out of all the nations
of the earth, and they to be so rebellious and perverse, if our own experience did not teach
us how free his choice is, and how long-suffering he is, and constant in his choice. His people
are called to a conformity with himself, “Be ye holy, for I am holy,” (Lev. chap. xix. and
xx.) and to a deformity and separation from the rest of the world in their conversation, from
whom God had separated them in profession and privileges, Lev. xviii. 24. But behold what unlikeness
there is between God and his people. If ye were to paint out to the life a heathen people,
you needed no other image or pattern to copy at but this same description of this people. It
is this that makes Moses in the preface turn to the heavens and earth, and call them to hear
his song, and Isaiah begins his preaching thus, “Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, &c.”
A strange thing it must be, that senseless creatures are called to wonder at. It must surpass
all the wonders and prodigies of nature and art. And what is that? “I have nourished and brought
up children, and they have rebelled against me,” &c. If we consider what this people seemed
once to be, and thought themselves to be, we may easily know how they corrupted themselves.
If ye look on them at one time, (Exod. xix. 8, Deut. v. 27,) ye would call them children. There
was never a fairer undertaking of obedience than this, “All that the Lord hath spoken we will
do,” so that the Lord commends them for speaking well, verse 28, “They have well said all that
they have spoken,” verse 29, “O that there were such an heart in them!” But compare all this
people’s practice with this profession, and you shall find it exceeding contrary; they indeed
corrupted themselves, though they got warning to take heed of it. “Take ye therefore good heed
unto yourselves, lest ye corrupt yourselves,” Deut. iv. 15, 16. But alas, it was within them
that destroyed them; there was not such a heart in them as to hear and obey, but they undertake,
being ignorant of their own deceitful hearts, which were desperately wicked. And therefore,
behold what corruption ensued and followed upon such a professed resolution. They never sooner
promised obedience, but they disobeyed; they did abominable works, and did no good, and this
is to corrupt their way, Psalm xiv. 1, &c. We need not instance this longer in this people,
we ourselves are a sufficient proof of it. We may make this song our own, “we have corrupted
ourselves.” Once we had a fair show of zeal for God, of love and desire of reformation of life,
many solemn undertakings were that we should amend our ways and doings, but what is the fruit
of all? Alas, we have corrupted ourselves more than they. Israel promised, but we vowed and
swore to the Most High, reformation and amendment of life in our conversations and callings.
Lay this rule to our practices, and are we not a perverse and crooked generation? Oh! that
we were more affected with our corruptions, and were more sensible of them, then we could not
choose but mourn for our own and the land’s departing from God. Did not every man vow and swear
to the most high God to endeavour reformation of his life, even a personal reformation?(265)
But alas, where is it? “He that is filthy” is “filthy still.” Nay, which is worse, the evil
man waxeth worse and worse. There is a great noise of a public reformation of ordinances and
worship, but alas, the deformation of life and practice outcries all that noise. Nay, certainly
all that is done in the public, must come to no account before God since our practices outcry
it. Public reformation is abomination, where personal corruptions do not cease. This made the
Jews’ solemn days hateful, their hands were “full of blood.” Isa. i. 15. All that ye have spent
on the public will never be reckoned, since ye will not consecrate your lives to God, will
not give your lusts up to him. Ye are his enemies in the mean time, though you account yourselves
religion’s friends. I beseech you consider your ways. Would any of us have thought to have
seen such profanity, mocking of godliness, and ignorance in Scotland in so short a time? Nay,
it is to be feared that the day is not far off, when ye will corrupt yourselves, and do abominable
things, yea, defile yourselves as ill as the nations that know not God.

Every man useth to impute his faults to something beside himself. Ere men take with their own
iniquity, they will charge God that gave no more grace, but if men knew themselves, they would
deduce their corruption and destruction both from one fountain, that is, from themselves. Ignorance
of ourselves maketh us oft undertake fair, and promise so well on our own head. What was the
fountain of this people’s corruption, and apostatizing from their professions? The Lord hints
at it, Deut. v. 29, &c. “Oh that they had such a heart.” Alas, poor people, ye know not yourselves,
that speak so well. I know thee better than thou dost thyself, I will declare unto thee thy
own thought, thou hast not such a heart as to do what thou sayest; there is a desperate wicked
heart within thee, that will destroy thee by lying unto thee. If thou knewest this fountain
of original corruption, thou wouldest despair of doing, and say, I cannot serve the Lord. Now
here is the fountain of the land’s corruption this day. Why is our way corrupted? Because our
hearts within were not cleansed, and because they were not known. If we had dried up the fountain,
the streams had ceased, but we did only dam it up, and cut off some streams for a season; we
set up our resolutions and purposes as an hedge to hold it in, but the sea of the heart’s iniquity,
that is above all things, hath overflowed it, and defiled our way more than in former times.
Ye thought upon no other thing, but that presently ye would be all changed people, and would
reform without more ado,—and thus it is with you in all your public repentances. But alas!
you know not yourselves, it is still within you which will yet corrupt you, and it was within
us that hath undone us, we were too confident of ourselves, and it is no wonder that the Lord
suffers us to prove ourselves, that we may know what is in our heart. Now, therefore, since
ye have so often tried it, I beseech you follow not such a way again. Ye are called to deny
yourselves, and to follow Christ and this is a great part of it, that ye may never expect for
any good within yourselves, or the helping of any evil. “In me is thy help found.” Look to
the fountain of life, Jesus Christ, and despair of your own hearts, for they are desperately
wicked, so wicked, that if ye knew them, ye would despair of them, and give them over to another
hand, who can create a new heart within you. Ye use to impute your backslidings to the times,
to temptations, to company, and such like. This is the way that men shift the challenges of
sin: the drunkard puts it on his companion, the servant on his master that led him wrong, the
people put rulers in the fault, and absolve themselves, and rulers put one another in the wrong,
and absolve themselves. But, alas! all of us are ignorant of ourselves; it is not times nor
temptations that corrupt us, but ourselves. No man is tempted, saith James, of God, “but every
man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed,” James i. 14. Temptation
were no temptation, if our hearts were not wicked hearts. Nay, many of us are ready to tempt
temptations, to provoke the devil to temptations; we cast ourselves open to temptations. Temptations
find lust within, and lust within is the mother to conceive sin, if temptation be the father.
Times do not bring evils along with them, they do but discover what was hid before. All the
evils and corruptions you now see among us, where were they in the day of our first love, when
we were as a loving and beloved child? Have all these risen up of late? No certainly, all that
you have seen and found were before, though they did not appear; before they were in the root,
now you see the fruit. All the apostacy and profanity that hath been vented in these days,
was all shut up within the corners of men’s hearts at the beginning. Time and temptation hath
but uncovered the heart, and made the inside out, hath but opened a sluice to let out this
sea of corruption. It is not bred since, but seen since.

Now so it is with us, we have corrupted ourselves, and so we corrupt ourselves still more.
Backsliding cometh on as gray hairs, here and there and is not perceived by beholders. Nemo
repente fit turpissimus.(266) No man becometh worst at first. There are many steps between
that and good. Corruption comes on men’s ways as in fruits, some one part beginneth to alter,
and then it groweth worse, and putrifieth and corrupteth the rest of the parts. An apple rots
not all at once, so it is with us. Men begin at leisure, but they run post before all be done.
In some one step of our way we take liberty and think to keep the rest clean, but when that
part is corrupted, “a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump,” and all followeth: and then
he that corrupted himself, is ready to corrupt others. “Children that are corrupters,” Isa.
i. 4. Every one by his example corrupts another, and by corrupting others they again corrupt
themselves more. Oh! how infectious an evil is sin, of a pestilentious nature, and truly our
hearts are more ready to receive such impressions, than either a world or a devil is to make them.

“Their spot is not.” Why doth the Lord take pleasure to reckon their sins, to describe so abominable
a people? Is not this Jacob in whom he saw no iniquity?(267) Is not this Israel, whose transgressions
are not known?(268) Certainly if this people would have charged themselves so, he would not
have done it. He loves to forget, when we remember our sins, but he must remember them when
we forget them. What is the Lord’s great controversy with men? Here it is,—How can ye say or
think that ye are not polluted? Or if ye take with such a general, yet, why is not the conviction
of your sin and misery so deeply engraven, as to pursue you out of all hope of remedy in yourselves,
(Jer. ii. 22, 23)? “And therefore is thine iniquity marked before me, saith the Lord.” God
hath determined not to wrong his justice. If men should go away unpunished and unjudged both,
where were his righteousness? If there were no record of men’s transgressions, were he a righteous
judge? Therefore, those who do not judge themselves must leave judgment to him, for once the
mouth of all flesh must be stopped, and all become guilty before God. Why pleads the Lord with
man? Because man says, “I am innocent, I have not sinned, his anger will turn away,” Jer. ii.
35. Will any speak so in terms? No indeed, but the Lord constructs so of the most part, because
they do more consider the wrongs done to them, than their own wrongs done to God. All men confess
the general, that they are sinners, but who searches and tries his way to find out particulars?
And in as far as ye do not charge yourselves with particular guiltiness, until ye be afraid
of his anger, as long as the consideration or your sins is so superficial and shallow, that
ye apprehend no danger of wrath, or immunity from it, certainly God will plead with you. Justice
must so far be glorified, as once to conclude you under the sentence of death; if ye do it
not now, then ye leave God to be your judge and party. But if any man shall take with his guiltiness,
till his mouth be stopped, and condemn himself in God’s sight, I say, mercy and grace in God
must not be wronged, he that judges himself shall not be judged of the Lord. What a fair offer
is this to you all the Lord offers to you! If ye will in time be your own judges, I will resign
my judgment to you. If you will in earnest pass the sentence, I will neither pass it nor execute
it. If ye come to the Mediator, Christ Jesus, to escape from the wrath of a judge, you shall
meet with a reconciled Father, and with such love in him as shall hide a multitude of offences.
O the depth, and height, and breadth of that love! Well then, it shall be a sea to cast your
offences into, that shall drown them. Had not his people many spots? Is there any man can say,
I have cleansed my heart from iniquity? No, not one. Yet behold, he sees no spots in his people.
He doth not make them his people because spotless, but he seeth them spotless, because he makes
them his people. There is no covering that can hide men’s uncleanness from his piercing eye,
but one even Jesus Christ his righteousness, and “Blessed is he whose sins are covered.” If
this covering were spread over the mouth of all hell, then hell should have a covering from
his eyes. If ye therefore strip yourselves naked of your own pretences and leaves, and think
not yourselves secure under any created shelter. If ye hide not your iniquity, then it shall
be hid indeed, here is a covering that shall hide it from his eyes. There is no spot so heinous,
none so ingrained, but the blood of Jesus can wash it as perfectly out, as if it had never
been, Isa. i. 16, 17. Though your spots were such as are not incident to his children, yet
this blood cleanses from one and all, it is of an infinite nature. But though it be so, that
the blood of Christ cleanseth from all sin, that there is a fountain opened in the house of
David for sin and for uncleanness, for sin and separation, for such heinous offences as may
separate people even from the congregation of the Lord’s people, yet there are some sins, some
spots, that ordinarily his people are not defiled with, and in this respect they may be called
holy and undefiled in the way. There are some marks and characters of unregenerated men so
legible and express, that we may even read from men’s conversation, that they are not the children
of God. Though the blood of Christ wash from all, yet the child of God ordinarily is kept from
some kind of spots, so that if a man shall be spotted with them it is no marvel he question
if he be a child or not. There are two, which I think so gross and unclean spots that I cannot
conceive how a soul washen by Jesus Christ can be defiled with them. One is, a course of profanity.
The common walk of the multitude is so gross and profane, so void of God and godliness, that
it witnesseth to their face that they are not the sons of God. “He that is born of God sinneth
not; he maketh not sin his way and trade to walk into, and please himself into.” What are the
most part of you, I pray you? Is your spot like the spot of his children? Do not ye declare
your sin as Sodom, ye drunkards, who wallow in it daily, and though ye profess repentance,
yet never amend? Ye who have a custom of swearing and blaspheming his holy name, do not ye
carry in your forehead a spot that is not like his children? The child of God may fall in many
particulars, but it is not the spot of a child to continue in them to add drunkenness to thirst,
and yet to dream of escaping wrath. I pray you, consider it, for it is of great moment. Do
ye carry such a black mark,—the devils mark? O do not think yourselves safe. May not this persuade
you? Do but compare yourselves in your converse and walk with an heathen without the church.
Set aside your public profession of coming to the church, and hearing the word, and church
privileges, and is the difference visible between you and them? Many of you pray no more in
secret or in your families than they. Ye curse and swear as they, ye are covetous and worldly
as they. If ye can, do but draw a line of difference, and if ye cannot, then I ask, what are
ye? Is not this the spot of bastards? Another spot is, hatred of godliness and the godly. This
is indeed the most lively image of the devil: who hates his brother is of the devil. He that
hates the Son, can he love the Father? he that hates him that is begotten, hates also him that
begat him and he that loves him that begat, loves him that is begotten. Now, how can he be
begotten of God, who hates that nature he is said to partake of—who hates him that is begotten?
I wonder that many of your consciences are not touched with this? How can ye imagine ye are
children of God, when there are none of your neighbours that your heart riseth more against,
that ye can less abide, than those who seek God most diligently, whose conversation is different
from the worlds? Do not flatter yourselves, as if it were hypocrisy ye hated. No, no ye can
agree with profanity, and how can ye hate hypocrisy? Ye can agree with a profane hypocrite—with
a profane man, that feigns and dissembles repentance but if once he were so thoroughly changed,
as to hate his former way, and forsake it, then your antipathy beginneth.  What a ridiculous
thing is it for profanity to take upon it to censure hypocrisy! Certainly if profanity cast
out with hypocrisy, it must be because it hath a form of godliness, which it so much detesteth.
It is a strange hatred at godliness that a profane man hath, that he cannot abide the very
shadow of it. I beseech you who love not holiness in your own persons, who hate to be reformed
yourselves, do not add this height of sin to it, as to hate it in others also. If ye be not
godly yourselves, do not add this declared manifest character of a child of the devil to it,
to hate godliness in others. There were some hope of you, if ye held it in reverence and estimation
where ye saw it. There are many other spots not incident to his children, as this, that men
will not take with their sin and the curse. It is a great difficulty to convince the most part
of men how miserable they are, how void of God. All the world will not put them out of a good
opinion of themselves, and I think this hath been the spot of this people, they would not take
with their guiltiness—a stubborn hearted people, wholehearted. There needs no more to declare
a number of you not to be God’s children, but this,—ye have lived all your time in the opinion
and belief that ye were God’s children, that ye believed in him, ye never saw yourselves lost
and miserable. This was the spot of this people that they esteemed themselves children, though
they had many spots that testified to their face that they were no children. They waxed worse
and worse, neither mercies nor judgments amended them. “When he slew them,” it may be, “they
sought him, and flattered him with their mouth, but their hearts were not right with him, neither
were they steadfast in his covenant,” Psal. lxxviii. 34. Ye would have thought them a godly
people, while under the rod for a season, but all that was but extorted and pressed out by
violence of affliction, as the groans of a beast under a burden. But a little time declared
that it was but flattery, though they thought themselves ingenuous, and therefore they returned
to their old provocations, as a sow to the puddle, or a dog to his vomit. And is not this our
spot, even the spot of great and small? If any would look upon us in our engagements and vows
under trouble, we appear like his people, a praying, repenting, and believing people,(269)
but how quickly doth all this prove flattery? Do we not still return to our old ways that we
have been exemplarily punished for, and which we so solemnly engaged against? The heat of the
furnace dieth out, and they wax colder and harder, a little time wears away all their tenderness.
Every man seeks his own things, and no man seeks the things of Jesus Christ. This was this
people’s sin and spot. “Jeshurun waxed fat and kicked, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his
salvation.” When their heads were lifted up to government, when they were raised out of the
waters of affliction and poverty, then they forgat God, they oppressed the poor and needy,
eat up his people as bread, and could not abide to have their faults told them, they said to
the seers, “See not, and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things,” &c. Isa. xxx.
10. I think likewise, that oppression is not the spot of his children, whoever uses it. And
covetousness presses men to it, when power is in their hand to compass it. This is a vile spot,
unworthy of any ruler, let be(270) a Christian. It was abhorred among Pagans. O but it cries
to heaven, saith the Scripture, it hath a double cry when other sins cry once! The heinousness
of it crieth once, and the poor people cry again, and both these come up to the ears of the
Lord of hosts, nay, it hath the cry of murder, and another beside. He that is greedy of gain,
is said to take away the life of the owners thereof, Prov. i, 19. So he is a murderer before
God, and the poor man’s blood crieth for vengeance, and then himself seconds it either by prayer,
or crying out for misery, Job xxxv. 9. All men’s prayers and professions will not outcry these
two. The people’s many prayers could not be heard, (Isa. i. 15), because their hands were “full
of blood,” which had a louder cry than their prayers. The poor also oppressing the poor, is
like a sweeping rain that leaves nothing behind it.

It is read in the margin, “that they are not his children,—that is their blot.” And indeed
it is so. It is a great blot and stain in the face of any man whoever he be, that he is not
born of God—that he can reckon kindred to none but Adam. But what indignity is it and disgrace,
for a people professing his name, yet to have no other generation, to reckon no higher than
the earth and the earthly. What is now the great blot of our visible church? Here it is, the
most part are not God’s children, but called so; and it is the greater blot that they are called
so, and are not.(271) O poor saints, esteem your honour and high privilege; ye have received
this, to be the sons of God! It is no blot to you that you are poor and despised in the world;
but it is and shall be an eternal blot to the great and rich, and wise in the world, that they
are not the children of God. Christianity is no blot, though it be in reproach among men, but
it is really the glory and excellency of a man; but the want of it, alas! how doth it abase
many high and noble, impoverish many rich, and infatuate many wise! Ye think all of you are
the children of God, because ye are in the church, and partake of the ordinances and sacraments;
and so did this people. But Moses did not flatter these Jews, but told both princes and people
in their face, that they were not children of God, because only Israel in the letter, they
had not children’s manners. O that it might not be said of the most part of you, that ye are
not children of God, and that that is your blot and shame! It is the shame of rulers not to
be the children of God. They are wise, they are active, they are noble, but one spot disgraceth
all, one fly maketh their ointment to stink, they are not gracious, many of them, but sons
of men at the farthest reckoning, are not begotten again to a lively hope. “Not many wise,
not many noble, not many rich.” The scantiness of gracious men is the spot of judicatories,(272)
that there are many children of the world, but few children of light in them. O how beautiful
and glorious would judicatories be, if all the members were children of light! What glory would
there be, if all of them did shine and enlightened one another! But what beauty or comeliness,
what majesty can be in rulers or judicatures, when the image of God is not in them! This is
also the spot of assemblies, synods, presbyteries, that there are few godly ministers. Alas,
that this complaint should be, even among those whose office it is to beget many children to
God! How few of them are begotten, or have the image of their Father! And thus church assemblies
have no beauty, such as the courts of Jesus Christ should have. O that we were in love with
Christianity and grace; that it were our grand question, how shall I be put among the children?
The Lord seems to wonder at it, and make a question of it, How can such as we be put among
the children? Jer. iii. 19. But he answers it himself, “Thou shalt call me, My Father, and
shall not turn away from me.” There is no more to do, but to take with(273) your wanderings
and wrongs done to God, embrace him in Jesus Christ, and he becomes your Father; and if ye
be children, sure ye will resolve to abide in your Father’s house, and turn no more to a present
world, or your former lusts.

They are a “perverse and crooked generation.” What pleasure hath the Lord in speaking thus,
when he upbraids none? Certainly, in a manner it is drawn out of him. Would he object our faults,
if we did not defend them by obstinacy? Perverseness and crookedness is obstinacy and incorrigibleness
against mercies and judgments,—“that that which is crooked cannot be made straight,” saith
Solomon. Then doth the Lord take notice of sins, when men refuse to return, and so maintain
their sins. It is this which heightens provocations, and makes out the controversy,—perverseness
in sin. It is not ordinary common infirmities that the Lord punisheth, either in a land or
person; but when infirmities are discovered by the light of the word, when the Lord useth means
to reclaim men in his providence, and yet no means prevail, then are they reckoned perverse.
Now, perverseness is not the spot of his children: the child of God daily bows and folds to
him, receives challenges from him, takes with iniquity and yields unto God. O that this title
might not be written above the head of this generation deservedly—“This is a perverse and crooked
generation!”

Sermon V.

    Psal. lxxiii. 28.—“But it is good for me to draw near to God: I
    have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy
    works.”

After man’s first transgression, he was shut out from the tree of life, and cast out of the
garden, by which was signified his seclusion and sequestration from the presence of God, and
communion with him: and this was in a manner the extermination of all mankind in one, when
Adam was driven out of paradise. Now, this had been an eternal separation for any thing that
we could do, (for we can do nothing but depart by a perpetual backsliding, and make the distance
every day wider,) except it had pleased the Lord, of his infinite grace, to condescend to draw
near to us in gracious promises and offers of a Redeemer. If he had not made the first journey
from heaven to earth, by sending his only Son, we should have given over the hope of returning
from earth to heaven. But he hath taken away the greatest part of that distance, in drawing
near to our nature; yea, in assuming our flesh into the fellowship of his glorious divinity.
He hath stooped so low to meet with us, and offered himself the trysting place(274) between
God and us, a fit meeting-place, where there is a conjunction of the interests of both parties,
and now, there is no more to do, but to draw near to God in Jesus Christ, since he hath made
the great journey to come down to us. We have not that infinite gulf of satisfaction to justice
to pass over, we have not the height of divine Majesty, as he is infinitely above us, and offended
with us, to climb up unto. Certainly we could not but fall into the lake that is below us,
if we were to aim so high. But the Lord hath been pleased to descend to us, in our mean capacity
in the flesh, and fill up the immeasurable gulf of justice by the infinite merits and sufferings
of his Son in our flesh. And now he invites us, he requests us, to come to him in his Son and
have life. We are not come to mount Sinai, that might not be touched, that burnt with fire
and tempest, where there were terrible sights and intolerable noises. I say, such a God we
might have had to do with a consuming fire, instead of an instructing light,—a devouring fire,
instead of a healing Sun of righteousness, considering that there is nothing in us which is
not fit and prepared fuel for everlasting burnings. But we are come—and that is the eternal
wonder of angels—unto mount Sion to be citizens in the city of God and fellow citizens with
blessed angels and glorified spirits, to peace and reconciliation with him who was our judge.
And if you ask how this may be? I answer, because we have one Jesus, the Mediator of the new
covenant, to come to, whose blood crieth louder for pardon of sinners than all men’s transgressions
can cry for punishment of sinners, Heb. xii. 18-20, &c.

Let us then consider the first step and degree of union with God,—it consists in faith in Jesus
Christ. This is the first motion of the soul in drawing near to God, for, as there is no remission
without blood, so no access to God without a mediator. For if you consider what is in Jesus
Christ, you will find that which will engage the desire of the heart, as also that which will
give boldness and confidence to act that desire. Eternal life is promised and proposed in him,—he
offers rest to weary souls, and hath it to give. That which we ignorantly and vainly seek elsewhere,
here it is to be found. For personal excellencies, he is the chief infinitely beyond comparison,
and for suitableness to us and our necessities, all the gospel is an expression of it, so that
he is presented in the most attractive drawing manner that can be imagined. And then, when
the desires are inflamed, yet if there be no oil of hope to feed it, it will soon cool again.
Therefore, take a view again, and you may have boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood
of Jesus. There was some kind of distance kept in the Old Testament,—none but the high priest
might enter into the holiest place, but the entry of our High Priest into it, that is, into
heaven, hath made it patent to all that come to him and apply his blood. There is a new and
living way by the holy flesh of Christ, consecrated and made, of infinite value and use, by
the divinity of his person, and, therefore, having such a one of our kindred so great with
God, we may draw near with a true heart and full assurance of faith, having our consciences
sprinkled, &c, Heb. x. 18-20, &c. Now, since the way is made plain to you, and the entry is
opened up in the gospel, do you not find your hearts stir within you to draw near to him? Do
you not find a necessity of making peace by such a Mediator? O that ye knew the great distance
between God and your natures, and what the hazard is, “Lo! they that are far from thee shall
perish,” then certainly you would take hold of this invitation, and be easily drawn unto Jesus
Christ. But unto you who have adventured to draw near for pardon of sin in Christ, I would
recommend unto you that you would draw yet nearer to God. After that the partition wall of
wrath and condemnation is removed, yet there is much darkness in your minds and corruption
in your natures, that separates from him, I mean, intercepts and disturbs that blessed communion
you are called unto. Therefore, I would exhort you, as James, “Draw near to God, and he will
draw near to you,” chap. iv. 8, and that, wherein this most consists, is in studying that purification
of our natures, that cleansing of our hearts from guile, and our hands from offences, by which
our souls may draw towards a resemblance of God. This access and drawing near to God in assimilation
and conformity of nature is the great design of the gospel. “Be ye holy, for I am holy. Now,
ye are agreed, walk with him,” (Amos iii. 3), as Enoch “walked with God,” Gen. v. 24, that
is, labour in all your conversation to set him before your eyes, and to study to be well pleased
with him in all things and to please him in all, to conform yourselves to his pleasure in every
thing. And this communion in walking especially consists in that communication of the spirit
with God in prayer, this is the nearest and sweetest approach when the soul is lifted up to
God, and is almost out of itself in him, and this being the ordinary exercise and motion of
the soul, it exceedingly advances in the first point of nearness, that is, in conformity with
God. Drawing often near in communion with him in prayer, makes the soul draw towards his likeness,
even as much converse of men together will make them like one another.

Now, for the commendation of this, “It is good.” What greater evil can be imagined than separation
from the greatest good? And what greater good, than accession to the greatest good? Every thing
is in so far happy and well, as it is joined with, and enjoyeth, that which is convenient for
it. Light is the perfection of the earth, remove it, and what a disconsolate and unpleasant
thing is it! Now, truly there is nothing suitable to the immortal spirit of man but God, and,
therefore, all its happiness or misery must be measured by the access or recess, nearness or
distance, of that infinite goodness. Therefore, is it any wonder, that all they that go a whoring
from him perish, as every man’s heart doth? For we are infinitely bound by creation, by many
other bonds stronger than wedlock, to consecrate and devote ourselves wholly to God, but this
is treacherously broken. Every man turns aside to vanity and lies, and is guilty of heart whoredom
from God, and spiritual idolatry, because the affection that should be preserved chaste for
him is prostitute to every base object. So then, this divorcement of the soul from God cannot
but follow thereupon, even an eternal eclipse of true and real life and comfort. And whoever
draws back from the fountain of life and salvation, cannot but find elsewhere perdition and
destruction, Heb. x. ult. My beloved, let us set thus aside all other things which are the
pursuits and endeavours of the most part of men. Men’s natural desires are carried towards
health, food, raiment, life and liberty, peace, and such like, but the more rational sort of
men seek after some shadow of wisdom and virtue. Yet the generality of men, both high and low,
have extravagant illimited desires towards riches, pleasure, preferment, and all that we have
spoken is enclosed within the narrow compass of men’s abode here, which is but for a moment.
So that, if it were possible that all these forementioned desires and delights of men could
attend any man for the space of an hundred years, though he had the concurrence of the streams
of the creatures to bring him in satisfaction, though all the world should bow to him and be
subject to the beck of his authority without stroke of sword, though all the creatures should
spend their strength and wit upon his satisfaction, yet do but consider what that shall be
within some few years, when he shall be spoiled of all that attendance, denuded of all external
comforts, when the fatal period must close his life, peace, health, and all, and his poor soul
also, that was drowned in that gulf of pleasure, shall then find itself robbed of its precious
treasure, that is, God’s favour, and so remain in everlasting banishment from his presence.
Do ye think, I say that man were happy? Nay! O happy Lazarus, who is now blessed in Abraham’s
bosom, who enjoys an eternity of happiness for a moment’s misery! But, my beloved, you know
that it is not possible even to attain to that imagined happiness here. All the gain that is
found is not able to quit the cost and expense of grief, vexation, care, toiling and sweating
that is about them.

But if ye would be persuaded, there is that to be found easily, which you trouble yourselves
seeking elsewhere, and believe me, though the general apprehension of men be,—that peace, plenty,
preferment, and satisfaction in this life, to compense their pains, are more easily attainable
than fellowship and communion with God, yet I am persuaded that there is nothing more practicable
than the life of religion. God hath condemned the world under vanity and a curse, and that
which is crooked can by no art or strength be made straight, but he hath made this attainable
by his gracious promises, even a blessed life, in approaching near to himself, the fountain
of all life. And this is a certain good, an universal good, and an eternal good. It will not
disappoint you as other things do, of which you have no assurance for all your toilings. This
is made more infallible to a soul that truly seeks it in God. It is as certain that they cannot
be ashamed through frustration, as that he is faithful. And then it is an universal good, one
comprehensive of all, one eminently and virtually all things created, to be joined to the infinite
all fulness of God. This advanceth the soul to a participation of all that is in him. This
is health, Psalm xlii. 11. Prov. iii. 8. This is light, John viii. 12. It is life, (John xi.
25,) liberty, (John viii. 36,) food and raiment, (Isa. lxi. 10, and John iv. 14,) and what
not? It is profit, pleasure, preferment in the superlative degree, and not scattered in so
many various streams which divide and distract the heart, but all combined in one. It is the
true good of both soul and body, and so the only good of man. And lastly, it is eternal, to
be coetaneous with thy soul. Of all other things it may be said, “I have seen an end of them,”
they were and are not. But this will survive time, and all the changes of it, and then it will
begin to be perfect, when all perfection is at an end. Now, from all this, I would exhort you
in Jesus Christ to ponder those things in your hearts, and consider them in reference to your
own souls, that ye may say with David, “It is good for me to draw near to God.”

That which all men seek after, is happiness and well being. Men pursue nothing but under the
notion of good, and to complete that which may be called good, there is required some excellency
in the thing itself, and then a conveniency and suitableness to us, and these jointly draw
the heart of man. But the great misery is, that there is so much ignorance and misapprehension
of that which is truly good, and then, when any thing of it is known, there is so little serious
consideration and application of it to ourselves, and this makes the most part of men wander
up and down in the pursuit of divers things, which are not that true good of the soul, and
set their hearts on that which is not, until they find their hearts fall down as wanting a
foundation and then they turn about again to some other vanity. And so the wanderings and strayings
of men are infinite, because the by ways are innumerable, though the true way be but one. Yea,
the turnings and toilings of one man are various and manifold because he quickly loses the
scent of happiness in every way he falls into and therefore must turn to another. And thus
men are never at any solid setting about this great business, never resolute wherein this happiness
consists, nor peremptory to follow it, but they fluctuate upon uncertain apprehensions, and
diverse affections, until the time and date of salvation expire, and then they must know certainly
and surely the inevitable danger and irrecoverable loss they have brought themselves, to, who
would not take notice of the sure way, both of escaping wrath and attaining happiness while
it was to be found.

Well, then, this is the great business we have here to do, yea, to make the circle the larger,
it is that great business we have to do in this world, to know wherein the true well being
and eternal welfare of our souls consist and by any means to apply unto that, as the only thing
necessary, in regard of which, all other things are ceremonies, circumstances, and indifferent
things. And to guide us in this examination and application, here is one man, who, having almost
made shipwreck upon the rocks which men commonly dash upon, and being by the Lord led safely
by, and almost arrived at the coast of true felicity, he sets out a beacon, and lights a candle
to all who shall follow him, to direct them which way they shall steer their course. Examples
teach more effectually than rules. It is easy for every man to speak well upon this point in
general, and readily all will acknowledge that here it is, and nowhere else. But yet all this
is outcried by the contrary noise of every man’s practice. These general grants of truth are
recalled in the conversations of men, therefore they cannot have much influence upon any man.
But when we hear one speak, and see him walk so too, when we have the example of a most wise
man, who wanted not these worldly expectations which other men have, so that he not only propones
it to us, but after much serious advisement, after mature consideration of all that can be
said of the wicked’s best estate, and the godly’s worst, setting down resolute conclusions
for himself—“It is good for me to draw near to God,” yea, so determinate in it, that if none
of the world should be of that mind, he would not change it,—though all should walk in other
ways, he would choose to be rather alone in this, than in the greatest crowd of company in
any other. Now, I say, when we have such a copy cast us, a man of excellent parts in sobriety
and sadness, choosing that way, which all in words confess to be the best, should not this
awake us out of our dreams and raise us up to some more attention and consideration of what
we are doing? The words, you see, are the holy resolution of a holy heart, concerning that
which is the chiefest good. You see the way to happiness, and you find the particular application
of that to David’s soul, or of his soul to it. We shall speak a word of the thing itself, then
of the commendation of it, then of the application of it.

For the thing itself,—drawing near to God,—it gives us some ground to take a view of the posture
in which men are found by nature, far off from God. Our condition by nature I cannot so fitly
express, as in the apostle’s words, (Eph. ii. No hope in it, that is the extremity of misery,
the refuse of all conditions. “Without Christ, and without God.” Oh! these are words of infinite
weight: without those, without whom it is simply impossible to be happy, and without whom it
is not possible but to be miserable,—without the fountain of light, life, and consolation,
without which there is nothing but pure darkness, without any beam of light; nothing but death,
without the least breathing of life, nothing but vexation, without the least drop of consolation.
In a word, without these, and wanting these, whom, if you want, it were good to be spoiled
of all being, to be nothing, if that could be, or never to have been any thing. Men will seek
death, and cannot find it. O what a loss and deprivement is the loss of God, which makes death
more desirable than life, and not to be at all, infinitely preferable to any being! Now, it
is true, that the bringing in of multitudes within the pale of the visible church, is some
degree of access and nearness to God, for then they become citizens as to external right, in
the commonwealth of the church, and have the offers of the promises made to them, in respect
of which visible standing, the apostle speaks of the whole church of Ephesus, “but now ye are
made near who were far off,” (ver. 13,) notwithstanding, that many of them were found afterwards
to have left their first love, Rev. ii. But yet, beloved, to speak more inwardly, and as your
souls stand in the sight of God, the generality of those who are near hand in outward ordinances
are yet far off from God in reality,—“without God and without Christ,” as really, as touching
any soul-feeling, as those who are altogether without. The bond of union and peace was broken
in paradise, sin dissolved it, and broke off that nearness and friendship with God, and from
that day to this day, there hath been an infinite distance and separation betwixt man and God.
The steps and degrees of it are many. There is darkness and blindness in men’s minds. Such
ignorance naturally possesseth the multitude, that it wholly alienates them from the life of
God, Eph. iv. 18. For what fellowship can light, that pure light, have with such gross darkness
as is among us? This certainly is the removal of that Sun of Righteousness from our souls,
or the imposition of the clouds of transgression, that makes it so dark a night in the souls
of men. And then there is nothing but enmity and desperate wickedness in the heart of man,
and this keeps the stronghold of the affections, Rom. viii., Jer. xvii. There cannot be a further
elongation or separation of the soul from God, than to turn so opposite, in all inclinations
and dispositions, to his holy will, for the distance between God and us is not local in the
point of place, for whither shall we go from him who is everywhere? And thus he is near hand
every one of us, but it is also real in the deformity and repugnancy of our natures to his
holy will. But add unto this, that being thus separated in affection, and disjoined, as it
were, in natural dispositions, we cannot draw near to God in any ordinance,—as the word, prayer,
&c. Though we may, as that people, draw near with our lips, and ask of him our duty, and seem
to delight to know him, yet there is this natural incapacity and crookedness in the heart of
man, that it cannot truly approach unto the Father of spirits with any soul-desire and delight.
But their hearts are removed far from me, Isa. xxix. 13, Matt. xv. 8. I think men might observe
that their souls act not in religious business as they should, but that they remove their souls
many miles distant from their bodies,—and they cannot keep any constancy in this approach of
prayer to God, cannot walk with him in their conversation, or carry him along in their meditation.
But there is one point of estrangement and separation superadded to all, that there is no man
can come near to God without an oblation and offering of peace, that there is no approaching
to him, but as to a continuing fire, except we can bring a sacrifice to appease, and a present
to please Him for our infinite offences. There the difference stands,—we cannot draw near to
walk together, till we be agreed. And, truly, this unto man is impossible, for we have nothing
so precious as the redemption of our souls,—nothing can compense infinite wrongs, or satisfy
infinite justice. Now, this seems to make our nearness again desperate, and to put men furthest
off from hope.

Notwithstanding, this is the very purpose of the gospel, preached from the beginning of the
world, to remove that distance, and to take impediments of meeting out of the way; for that
great obstruction, the want of a sacrifice and ransom, the Lord hath supplied it, he himself
hath furnished it; and it was the great design carried on from the beginning of the world.
But as the sun, the nearer he is, the more the earth is enlightened: so here, first some dawning
of light appears, as a messenger of hope, to tell that the Redeemer shall come,—that the true
sacrifice shall be slain; then still the nearer his own appearing, the clearer are the manifestations
of him, and the great design is more opened up, till at length he breaks out in glory from
under a cloud, and shows himself to the world, to be that Lamb of God that should take away
the sins of the world. And now, as the apostle to the Hebrews speaks, chap. vii. 19, “The law
hath made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, by the which we draw nigh
to God.” All the sacrifices and shadows that were under the law did but point at this perfect
ransom; and the way of access to God through a Mediator was not so clear; but now the matter
is made as hopeful as is possible,—the partition-wall of the law’s curses,—the hand-writing
against us is removed on the cross,—the enmity slain,—the distance removed by the blood of
the cross, being partly filled up by his descent into our nature, partly by his lower descent
in our nature to suffer death. And this is the savoury oblation that we have to present to
God, and may have boldness to come nigh because of it. And when once our access is made by
the blood of Jesus Christ, then we are called and allowed to come still nigher, to cleave and
adhere to him as our Father, to pray unto him, to walk with him. Then we should converse as
friends and familiars together; then draw nigh to his light for illumination, and to him as
the fountain of life for quickening, to place our delight and desire in him,—to forsake all
other things, even our wills and pleasures, and to lose them, that they may be found in his;
to converse much in his company, and be often in communication with him, and meditation upon
him. This is the very design and substance of the gospel. It holds forth the way of making
up the breach between man and God, of bringing you nigh who are yet afar off, and nearer who
are near hand. O let us hearken to it!

Sermon VI.

    Prov. xxvii. 1.—“Boast not thyself of to-morrow, for thou knowest
    not what a day may bring forth.”

There are some peculiar gifts that God hath given to man in his first creation, and endued
his nature with, beyond other living creatures, which being rightly ordered and improved towards
the right objects, do advance the soul of man to a wonderful height of happiness, that no other
sublunary creature is capable of. But by reason of man’s fall into sin, these are quite disordered
and turned out of the right channel; and, therefore, as the right improvement of them would
make man happy, so the wrong employment of them loadens him with more real misery than any
other creature. I mean, God hath given to man two notable capacities beyond other things;—one
is, to know and reflect upon himself, and to consider what conveniency is in any thing towards
himself,—what goodness or advantage redounds to himself from them, and in that reflection and
comparison to enjoy what he hath; another is to look forward beyond the present time, and,
as it were, to anticipate and prevent the slow motions of time, by a kind of foresight and
providence. In a word, he is a creature framed unto more understanding than others, and so
capable of more joy in present things, and more foresight of the time to come. He is made mortal,
yet with an immortal spirit of an immortal capacity, that hath its eye upon the morrow,—upon
eternity. Now, herein consists either man’s happiness or misery, how he reflects upon himself,
and what he chooseth for the matter of his joy and gloriation, and what providence he hath
for the time to come. If those be rightly ordered, all is well; but if not, then woe unto him,
there is more hope of a beast than of him.

Man’s nature inclines to boasting—to glorying in something, and this ariseth from some apprehended
excellency or advantage, and so is originated in the understanding power of man, which is far
above beasts. Beasts find the things themselves, but they do not, they cannot reflect upon
their own enjoyment of them, and therefore they are not capable of such pleasure; for the more
distinct knowledge of things in relation to ourselves, the more delight ensueth upon it. Many
creatures have singular qualities and virtues, but they are nothing the happier; for they know
them not, and have no use of them, but are wholly destinated to the use of man, who therefore
is only said to enjoy them, because he only is capable of joy from them. And this, I suppose,
may give us a hint at the absolute incomprehensible blessedness, self-complacency, and delight
of God. It cannot but be immeasurably great, seeing the knowledge of himself and all creatures
is infinite; he comprehends all his own power, and virtue, and goodness, and therefore his
delight and rejoicing is answerable. There is a glorying and boasting then that is good, which
man is naturally framed unto; and this is that which David expresses, Psal. xxxiv. 2, “My soul
shall make her boast in God;” and Psal. xliv. 8, “In God we boast all the day long, and praise
thy name for ever.” When the soul apprehends that all-sufficiency, and self-sufficient fulness
of God; what infinite treasures of goodness, and wisdom, and power are in him, and so how suitable
and convenient he is to the condition of the soul; what a sweet correspondence there is between
his fulness and our emptiness—his mercy and our misery—his infiniteness and our unsuitableness;
that there is in him to fill and overflow the soul: the apprehension of this cannot but in
a manner perfume the soul with the delight. You find how the senses are refreshed, when they
meet with their suitable object; how a pleasant smell refresheth the scent; how lively and
beautiful colours are delightful to the eye. But much more here, God is the proportioned object
of the immortal spirit; he corresponds to all its capacities, and fills it with unconceivable
sweetness. But, my beloved, boasting and glorying in him, ariseth not only from the proportionableness
and conveniency of him to our spirits; but this must be superadded,—propriety in him. Things
are loved, because excellent in themselves, or because they are our own; but we boast in nothing,
we glory in nothing, but because it is both excellent in itself, and ours besides. It is the
apprehended interest in any thing makes the soul rise and lift up itself after this manner,—to
have such a one to be ours,—such a Lord to be our God,—one so high and sublime,—one so universally
full, to be made over to thee; here is the immediate rise of the soul’s gloriation. And truly,
as there is nothing can be so suitable a portion, so there is nothing that can be so truly
made ours as God. Of all things a believer hath, there is nothing so much his own as God,—nothing
so indissolubly tied unto him,—nothing so inseparably joined. See Paul’s triumph upon that
account, Rom. viii. Nothing can truly be said to be the soul’s own, but that which is not only
coetaneous with it, that survives mortality, and the changes of the body, but likewise is inseparable
from it. What a poor empty sound is all that can be spoken of him, till your souls be once
possessed of him! it cannot make your hearts leap within you, but it cannot but excite and
stir up a believer’s heart.

Now there may be a lawful kind of gloriation, rejoicing in the works of God, consequent to
the first, which is a little stream from that greater river which runs out from it, and flows
into it again. A soul that truly apprehends God will take delight to view the works of God,
which make such an expression of him, and are a part of the magnificence of our heavenly Father.
But this is all in reference to him and not to ourselves; for then it degenerates and loseth
its sweetness, when once it turns the channel towards the adorning of the creature. True boasting
in God hath necessarily conjoined with it an humble and low esteem of a man’s self, Psal. xxxiv.
2, “The humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.” As humility and self-emptiness made David
go out of himself, to seek satisfaction in God, and having found it, he boasts and triumphs,
so there were none capable of understanding his triumph, or partaking with him in his delights,
but the humble souls. Now you may perceive how far this boasting here spoken of is degenerated
from that, and so how far man’s nature is spoiled,—“Boast not thyself,” &c. The true boasting
we were created unto, hath a sufficient foundation, even such as will bear the weight of triumph,
but that which men’s spirits are now naturally set upon, cannot carry, cannot sound such gloriation,
and therefore this boasting makes men ridiculous. If you saw a man glorying in rags, setting
forth himself to be admired in them, or boasting in some vain, despicable, and base thing,
you would pity him, or laugh at him as one distempered. The truth is, the natural man is mad,
hath lost his judgment, and is under the greatest distraction imaginable since the fall. That
fall hath troubled his brains, and they are never settled, till the new creation come to put
all right again, and compose the heart of man. I say, all other distractions are but particular,
in respect to particular things, but there is a general distraction over all mankind, in reference
to things of most general and most eternal concernment. Now, fools and mad persons, they retain
the same affections and passions that are in men, as anger, love, hatred, grief, joy, &c.,
but it is so much the worse, since the judgment, which is the only directive and guide of them,
is troubled. Now they are set on wrong objects, they run at random, and are under no kind of
rule, and so they hurry the poor man and put him in a pitiful case. Now indeed so it is with
us,—since sin entered, the soul is wholly turned off God, the only true object of delight,
in which only there can be solid gloriation. The mind of man is blinded, and his passions are
strong, and so they are now spent upon empty vanities, and carried headlong without judgment.
Oftentimes he glories in that which is his shame, and boasts in that which is his sin, and
which will cause nothing but shame, the more weight be laid upon it. There is in man an oblivion
and forgetfulness of God, and in this darkness of the ignorance of God, everything is apprehended
or misapprehended as present sense suggests, and as it fancies a conveniency or excellency.
Thither the soul is carried, as if it were something, and then it is but the east-wind. There
is nothing beside God that is a fit matter of boasting, because it lacks one of the essential
ingredients—either it is not suitable to the soul, or it is not truly our own. There wants
either proportion to the vast capacity and void of our desires, and so cannot fill up that
really, but only in a deluding dream or imagination, and therefore will certainly make the
issue rather vexation than gloriation, or there wants property and interest in them, for they
are changeable and perishing in their own nature, and by divine appointment, that they cannot
be conceived to be the proper good of the immortal soul. They cannot be truly our own, because
they will shortly cease to be, and before they cease to be, they may in a moment cease to be
ours. That tie of interest is a draw knot, whatsoever catcheth hold of the end of it looseth it.

The object of degenerate and vicious boasting is here held out: “Boast not thyself,” or “of
thyself.” Whatsoever be the immediate matter of it, this is always the ultimate and principal
object. Since man fell from God, self is the centre of all his affections and motions. This
is the great idol, the Diana, that the heart worships, and all the contention, labour, clamour,
and care that is among men, is about her silver shrines, so to speak, something relating to
the adorning or setting forth this idol. It is true, since the heart is turned from that direct
subordination to God, the affections are scattered and parted into infinite channels, and run
towards innumerable objects, for the want of that original unity, which comprehends in its
bosom universal plenty, must needs breed infinite variety, to supply the insatiable appetite
of the soul. And this might be enough to convince you, that your souls are quite out of course,
and altogether wandered from the way of happiness because they are poured out on such a multiplicity
of insufficient, unsatisfying things, every one of which is narrow, limited and empty, and
the combination and concurrence of all being a thing either impossible or improbable to be
attained. But we may conceive that men’s affections put themselves into three great heads of
created things, one of which runs towards the goods or perfections of the mind, another towards
the goods or advantages of the body, and a third towards those things that are without us,
bona fortunæ, riches and honour, &c. Now each of these sends out many streams and rivulets
as so many branches from it, but all of them, though they seem to have a direct course towards
other things, yet wind about and make a circular progress to the great ocean of self-estimation,
whence they issued at first.

You may find all of these, (Jer. ix. 23,) falling under a divine interdiction and curse, as
being opposite to glorying in God. While men reflect within themselves, and behold some endowments
and abilities in their minds beyond other men, of which wisdom is the principal, and here stands
for all inward advantages or qualifications of the soul in that secret reflection and comparison,
there is a tacit gloriation, which yet is a loud blasphemy in God’s ears. It is impossible
almost for a man to recognosce(275) and review his own parts such as ingine,(276) memory, understanding,
sharpness of wit, readiness of expression, goodness and gentleness of nature, but that in such
a review, the soul must be puffed up, apprehending some excellency beyond other men, and taking
complacency in it, which are the two acts of robbery that are in gloriation and boasting. Commonly
this arises from unequal comparisons. We please ourselves that we are deterioribus meliores,
“better than the worst,” and build self-estimation upon the ruins of other men’s disadvantages,
as if it were any point of praise in us that they are worse, like men that stand upon a height,
and measure their own altitude, not from their just intrinsic quantity, but taking the advantage
of the bottom, whereby we deceive our own selves. I remember a word of Solomon’s, that imports
how dangerous a thing it is for a man to reflect upon, or search into his own glory, Prov.
xxv. 27. “It is not good to eat much honey, so for men to search their own glory is not glory.”

To surfeit in the excess of honey or sweet things drives to vomit, and cloys the stomach, ver.
16. Though it be sweet, there is great need, yea, the more need of caution and moderation about
it, so for a man either to search into his own breast, and reflect upon his own excellencies,
to find matter of gloriation or studiously to affect it among others, and inquire into other
men’s account and esteem of him, it is no glory—it is a dangerous and shameful folly. Now this
is not only incident to natural spirits, upon their consideration of their own advantages,
but even to the most gracious, upon the review of spiritual endowments and prerogatives. It
is such a subtile and insinuating poison that it spreads universally, and infects the most
precious ointments of the soul, and, as it were, poisons the very antidote and counterpoison.
So forcible is this that was first dropped into man’s nature by Satan’s envy, that it diffuses
itself even into humility, and humiliation itself, and makes a man proud because of humility.
The apostle found need to caveat this, Rom. xi. 18-20, “Boast not,” “be not high minded, but
fear,”—“thou standest by faith,” and chap. xii. 16, “Mind not high things,” “be not wise in
your own conceits,” and 1 Cor. viii. 2, “If any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth
nothing as he ought to know.” All which gives us a plain demonstration of this, that self gloriation
and complacency, in reflection upon ourselves, is both the greatest ignorance and the worst
sacrilege. It is an argument of greater ignorance for a man to think he knows than not to know
indeed. It is the worst and most dangerous ignorance, to have such an opinion of our knowledge,
gifts, and graces, for that puffs up, swells with empty wind, and makes a vain tumour and then
it is great sacrilege, a robbing of the honour that is due to God. For what hast thou that
thou hast not received? That appropriating of these things to ourselves as ours, is an impropriating
of them from their right owner, that is, God, 1 Cor. iv. 7. For if thou didst apprehend that
thou received it, where then is glorying? I would desire then, that whenever you happen to
reflect upon yourselves, and observe any advantage, either natural or spiritual, in yourselves,
that you may think this word sounds from heaven, “Let him that glorieth glory in the Lord.”
Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, and so not the learned man in his learning, nor the
eloquent man in his speaking nor the ingenious man in his quickness nor the good man in his
goodness. All these things though sweet, yet will surfeit, gloriation in them is neither glory
nor gain, neither honourable nor profitable.

Then the stream of gloriation flows in the channel of bodily gifts as might, strength of body,
beauty and comeliness of parts, and other such endowments which, besides that it is as irrational
as the former, is a sacrilegious impropriation of the most free and arbitrary gifts of God
to ourselves, it is withal absurd, in that it is not so truly of ourselves. These bodily ornaments
and endowments do not perfect or better a man as a man, they are but the alterable qualities
of the vessel or tabernacle of a man, in which other baser creatures may far excel him. How
many comely and beautiful souls are lodged within obscure and ugly cottages or bodies of clay,
which will be taken down! And the great advantage is, that the soul of a man, which is a man,
cannot be defiled from without, that is, from the body, though never so loathsome or deformed,
the vilest body cannot mar the soul’s beauty. But then, on the other hand, the most beautiful
body is defiled and deformed by the filthiness of sin in the soul, and O how many deformed
and ugly souls dwell in beautiful and comely bodies, which truly is no other thing than a devil
in an image well carved and painted. Christians, you had need to correct this within you, even
a self complacency, joined with despising of others in the consideration of those external
gifts God hath given you. What an abominable thing is it to cast up in reproach, or in your
hearts to despise any other for natural imperfections, such as blindness, lameness, deformity
or such like? Let that word sound always in your ears, Who made thee to differ from another?
“Boast not thyself, &c.” But there is as strong a stream runs in the third channel as in any,
gloriation arising from those outward and extrinsic differences that the providence of God
makes among men, such as riches, honour, gain, &c. You find such men, Psalm xlix. 6, Prov.
xviii. 11, and x. 15. That which a godly man makes the name of the Lord,—that is, the ground
and foundation of his confidence for present and future times,—that the most part of men make
their riches, that is, their strong city, and their high wall, their hope and expectation is
reposed within it. This is the tower or wall of defence against the injuries and calamities
of the times, which most part of men are building, and if it go up quickly, if they can get
these several stones or pieces of gain scraped together into a heap they straightway imagine
themselves safe, as under a high wall. But there is no truth in it, it is all but in their
imagination, and therefore it comes often down about their ears, and offends them, instead
of being a defence. Let a man creep, as it were, from off the ground where the poor lie, and
get some advantage of ground above them, or be exalted to some dignity or office, and so set
by the shoulders higher than the rest of the people, or yet grow in some more abundance of
the things at this life, and strange it is, what a vanity or tumour of mind instantly follows!
He presently thinks himself somebody, and forgetting either who is above him, to whom all are
worms creeping and crawling on the footstool, or what a sandy foundation he stands upon himself,
he begins to take some secret complacency in himself, and to look down upon others below him.
He applauds, as it were, unto himself, and takes it in evil part to want the approbation and
plaudite of others. Then he cannot so well endure affronts and injuries as before, he is not
so meek and condescending to his equals or interiors. While he was poor he used entreaties,
but now he answers roughly, (Prov. xviii. 23,) as Solomon gives the character of him. How many
vain and empty gloriations are there about the point of birth and place, and what foolish contentions
about these, as if it were children struggling among themselves about their order and rank!
There is no worth in these things, but what fancy and custom impose upon them and yet poor
creatures boast in these empty things. The gentlemen despise citizens, the citizens contemn
the poor countrymen, and yet their bloods in a basin have no different colours, for all this
hot contention about blood and birth. “Boast not of thyself.” Nay, to speak properly, this
is not thyself,—Qui genus laudat suum, aliena jactat.(277) Such parents, and such a house are
nothing of thy own; these are mere extrinsic things, which are neither an honour to unworthy
men, nor a disgrace to one who is worthy.

You see, beloved in the Lord, what is now the natural posture or inclination of our souls in
this degenerate and fallen estate. As the rivers of paradise have changed their channels and
course since the fall, so hath man’s affections, and so hath his gloriation, so that it may
be truly said, that our glory is our shame and not our glory. Many glory in iniquity and sin,
(Psal. x. 3, and xciv. 4), but that shall undoubtedly be their shame and confusion before men
and angels. How many godless persons will glory in swearing heinous and deep oaths, and some
have contended about the victory in it! You account it a point of gallantry, but this triumph
is like the devils in hell upon the devouring of souls. Some boast of drinking, and being able
to drink others under the table, but we should be humbled and mourn for such abominations.
Certain I am, that many boast of wicked designs, and malicious projects against their neighbours,
if they can accomplish them. They account their glory not to take a wrong without giving a
greater, nor to suffer an evil word without twenty worse in recompense. Alas! this boasting
will one day be turned into gnashing of teeth, and this gloriation into that gnawing and ever-tormenting
worm of conscience. And what will ye do in the day of that visitation? And where shall be your
glory? But the most part glory and boast in things that profit not, and will become their shame,
because they glory in them, that is, those gifts of God, outward or inward, temporal or spiritual,
wherein there is any advancement above others; unto whom I would seriously commend this sentence
to be pondered duly, “Boast not” of thyself. Whatsoever thou art, or whatsoever thou hast,
boast not of thyself for it, think not much of thyself because of it. Though there be a difference
in God’s donation, yet let there be none in thy self estimation. Hast thou more wisdom and
pregnancy of wit, or more learning than another? Think not more of thyself for that, than thou
thinkest of the ignorant and unlearned who want it. Have that same reflection upon thine own
unworthiness, that thou would think reasonable another that wants these endowments should have.
Is there a greater measure of grace in thee? Boast not, reckon of thyself as abstracted and
denuded of that, and let it not add to thy value or account of thyself, put not in that to
make it down weight, and to make thee prefer thyself secretly to another. Whether it be some
larger fortune in the world, or some higher place and station among men, or some abilities
and perfections of body or mind, which may entice thee secretly to kiss thy hand, and bow down
to thyself, yet remember that thou boast not, glory not in any thing but in the Lord. Let nothing
of that kind conciliate more affection to thyself, or more contempt toward others. Let not
any thing of that kind be the rule of thy self judging, but rather entertain the view of the
other side of thyself, that is the worst, and keep that most in thy eye, that thou may only
glory in God. If thou be a gentleman, labour to be as humble in heart as thou thinkest a countryman
or poor tenant should be, if thou be a scholar, be as low in thy own sight as the unlearned
should be, if rich, count not thyself any whit better than the poor, yea, the higher God sets
thee in place, or parts, the lower thou oughtest to set thyself. “Boast not” of thyself, nor
any thing in thyself, or belonging to thyself, for the property of all good is taken from us
since the fall, and is fallen into God’s hand since we forfeited it, and there is nothing now
properly ours but evil,—that is our self.

Sermon VII. And so he often anticipates future things by present joy and rejoicing in them,
as he accelerates in a manner by his earnest desires and endeavours after them. Now, if the
soul of man were in the primitive integrity, and had as clear and piercing an eye of understanding
as once it had, this providence of the soul would reach to the furthest period in time, that
is, to eternity, which is the only just measure of the endurance of any immortal spirit. But
since the eye of man’s understanding is darkness, and his soul disordered, he cannot see afar
off, nor so clearly by far. He is now, as you say, sand blind,—can see nothing at such a distance
as beyond the bounds of time, can see nothing but at hand.

“To-morrow!” This is the narrow sphere of poor man’s comprehension, all he can attain unto
is to be provident for the present time. I call it ill present, even that which is to come
of our time, because, in regard of eternity, it hath no parts, it hath no flux or succession,
it is so soon cut off as a moment, as the twinkling of an eye, and so, though a man could see
the end of it, it is but a short and dim sight, it is as if a man could only behold that which
is almost contiguous with his eye. These, then, are the two great ruins and decays of the nature
of man, he is degenerated from God to created things, and seeks his joy and rest in them, in
which there is nothing but the contrary, that is, vexation. And then he is fallen from apprehension
of eternity, and the poor soul is confined within the narrow bounds of time, so that now all
his providence is to lay up some perishing things for some few revolutions of the sun, for
some few morrows, after which, though an endless morrow ensue, yet he perceives it not, and
provides not for it, and all his glorying and boasting is only upon some presumptuous confidence
and ungrounded assurance of the stability of these things for the time to come, which the wise
man finding much folly in, he leaves us this counsel, “Boast not thyself of to-morrow,”—with
a most pungent reason, taken partly from the instability and inconstancy of all these outward
things in which men fancy an eternity of joy, and partly from the ignorance we have of the
future events,—“for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.”

This boasting is an evil so predominant among men, that I know not any more universal in its
dominion, or more hurtful to us, or displeasing to God. If it could be so embowelled unto you,
as that you might truly discern the many monstrous conceptions of atheism and irreligion that
are in it, it were worth the while, but I shall not digress upon the general head, I had rather
keep within the limits of the text. Self boasting, you see, is that which is here condemned,
and the very name is almost enough to condemn the nature of it. But there is another particular
added to restrict that, “of to-morrow.” Of all boastings the most irrational and groundless
is that which arises from presumption of future things, which are so uncertain both in themselves
and to us.

It is worth the observation, that whatever be the immediate and particular matter and occasion
of men’s gloriation, yet self is the great and ultimate object of it; it is self that men glory
in, whatsoever created thing be the reason or occasion of it. “Boast not thyself of to morrow.”
Here we might stand and take a look of the crookedness and perverseness of man’s spirit since
his departure from God. Self love and pride were the first poison that the malice of Satan
dropped into man’s nature, and this is so strong and pestilent, that it has spread through
the whole of mankind, and the whole in every man. Every one is infected, and all in every one.
What are all the disordered affections in men but so many streams from this fountain? And from
these do men’s affections flow next, so that there is nothing left uncorrupted, and free of
this abominable and vile ingredient, all flowing from self and returning to it again, which
is both sacrilegious and unnatural. There is heinous sacrilege in it,—the spoiling of the glorious
divine Majesty of his indubitable prerogative and incommunicable right of all the glory, and
honour of his creature. There is no usurpation like this for the worm that crawls on the footstool
to creep up to the throne, and, as it were, to king it there, to deify and adore itself, and
gather in all the tribute of praise and glory and love, that is only due to the Lord God Almighty;
and invert and appropriate these to ourselves, which is, as if the axe should boast itself,
as if it were no iron, or the staff, as if it were no timber. Hence it is, that of all evils
in man’s nature, God hath the most perfect antipathy and direct opposition against pride and
self love, because it is sacrilege and idolatry in the highest manner. It strikes at the sovereignty
and honour of God’s name, which is dear to him as himself, it sets up a vile idol in the choicest
temple of God, that is, in the heart, and this is the abomination of desolation. Other evils
strike against his holy will, but this peculiarly points at the very nature and being of the
most high God, and so it is with child of blasphemy,—atheism is the very heart and life of
it. And then it is most unnatural, and so monstrous and deformed. For, consider all the creation,
though every one of them have particular inclinations towards their own proper ends, and so
a happiness suitable to their own nature; yet how diverse, how contrary soever they be, there
is no selfishness in them, they all concur and conspire to the good of the whole, and the mutual
help of each other. If once that poison should infect the material world, which hath spoiled
the spiritual; let once such a selfish disposition or inclination possess any part of the world,
and presently the order, harmony, beauty, pleasure, and profit of the whole world should be
interrupted, defaced, and destroyed. Let the sun be supposed to boast itself of its light and
influence, and so disdain to impart it to the lower world, and all would run into confusion.
Again, I desire you but to take a view of this humour in another’s person, (for we are more
ready to see others evils than our own,) and how deformed is it? So vile is self-seeking and
self boasting, that all men loathe it in others, and hide it from others. It disgraces all
actions, how beautiful soever, it is the very bane of human society, that which looses all
the links of it, and makes them cross and thwart one another.

But, alas! how much more easy is it, to point out such an evil in a deformed visage, than to
discern it in ourselves, and how many will hate it in the picture, who love and entertain it
in their own persons! Such deceitfulness is intermingled with most desperate wickedness. I
verily believe that it is the predominant of every man, good and bad, except in so far as it
is mortified by grace. O the turnings and windings of the heart upon itself, in all the most
apparently direct motions towards God and the good of men! What serpentine and crooked circumgirations
and reflections are there in the soul of man when the outward action and expression seems most
regular and directed towards God’s glory, and others edification! Whoever of you have any acquaintance
with your own spirits cannot but know this, and be ashamed and confounded at the very thought
of it. Self boasting, self complacency, self seeking, all those being of kin one to another,
are insinuated into your best notions, and infect them with more atheism before God, than the
strongest pious affection can instil of goodness into them. How often will men’s actions and
expressions be outwardly clothed with a habit of condescendency and self-denial! And many may
declaim with such zeal and vehemency against this evil, and yet, latet anquis, the serpent
is in the bosom and his venom may be diffused into the heart, and the poison of self-seeking
and self-boasting may run through the veins of humble-like carriage and passionate discourses
for self denial. O that we could above all things establish that fundamental principle of Christianity
in our hearts, even as we would be his disciples, truly and sincerely, and not in outward resemblance,—to
deny ourselves, to renounce ourselves and our lusts, to make a whole resignation of our love,
will, glory, and all to him, in whom to be lost it is only truly to find ourselves.

But, though man have this strange self idolizing humour, and a self glorying disposition, yet
he is so poor and beggarly a creature, that he hath not sufficient matter within himself to
give complacency to his heart, therefore he must borrow from all external things, and when
there is any kind of propriety in, or title to them, then he glories in himself for them, as
if they were truly in himself. We are creatures by nature most indigent, yet most proud, which
is unnatural. No man is satisfied within himself (except the good man, Prov. xiv. 14), but
he goes abroad to seek it at the door of every creature, and when there are some plumes or
feathers borrowed from other birds, like that foolish bird in the fable, we begin to raise
our crests, and boast ourselves, as if we had all these of our own, and were beholden to none,
but as things that are truly our own will not be sufficient to feed this flame of gloriation,
without the accession of outward things; so present things, and the present time, will not
afford aliment enough, or fuel for this humour, without the addition of the morrow.

“Boast not thyself of to-morrow.” No man’s present possession satisfies him, without the addition
of hope and expectation for the future, and herein the poverty of man’s spirit appears, and
the emptiness of all things we enjoy here, that our present revenue, as it were, will not content
the heart. The present possession fills not up the vacuities of the heart, without the supply
of our imaginations, by taking so much in upon the head of the morrow, to speak so. As one
prodigal and riotous waster, who cannot be served with his yearly income, but takes so much
on upon his estate, upon the next year’s income, before it come, begins to spend upon it, before
it come itself, and then, when it comes, it cannot suffice itself, so the insatiable and indigent
heart of man cannot subsist and feed its joy in complacency upon the whole world, if it were
presently in its possession, without some accession of hopes and expectations for the time
to come. Therefore the soul, as it were, anticipates and forestalls the morrow, and borrows
so much present joy and boasting upon the head of it, which when it comes itself, perhaps it
will not fill the hand of the reaper, let be(278) pay for that debt of gloriation that was
taken on upon its name, or compense the expectation which was in it, see Job xi. 18, 20, viii.
13. Hope is like a man’s house to him, but to many it is no better than a spider’s web. We
have then a clear demonstration of the madness and folly of men, who hang so much upon things
without, and suffer themselves to be moulded and modelled in their affections, according to
the variety of external accidents. First of all, consider the independence of all things upon
us and our choice; there is nothing more unreasonable than to stir our passions upon that which
falls not under our deliberation, as the most part of things to come are. What shall be to-morrow,
what shall come of my estate, of my places; what event my projects and designs shall have,—this
is not in my hand, these depend upon other men’s wills, purposes, and actions, which are not
in my power, and therefore, either to boast of glory upon that which depends upon the concurrence
of so many causes unsubordinate to me, or to be vexed and disquieted upon the fore-apprehension
of that which is not in my hand to prevent, is not only irreligious, as contrary to our Saviour’s
command, Matt. vi. 25, but unreasonable also, as that which even nature condemns. “Take not
thought for to-morrow,” and so by consequent, “Boast not thyself of to-morrow,” and there is
one argument from the vanity of such affections. “Thou canst not make one hair black, nor add
one cubit to thy stature,” &c. To what purpose, then, are either those vexations or gloriations,
which cannot prevent evil, nor procure good? Why should our affections depend upon others motions?
This makes a man the greatest slave and captive, so that he hath not the dominion and power
of himself. But the vanity of such affections is the more increased, if we consider that supreme
eternal will, by which all these things are determined, and therefore, it is in vain for creatures
to make themselves more miserable, or put themselves in a fool’s paradise, which will produce
more misery afterwards, and that, for those things which are bound up in that fatal chain of
his eternal purpose. Then, in the next place, the folly of men appears from the inconstancy
of these things. There is such an infinite variety of the accidents of providence, that it
is folly for a man to presume to boast of any thing, or take complacency in it, because many
things fall between the cup and the lip,(279) the chalice and the chin, as the proverb is.
There is nothing certain, but that all things are uncertain,—that all things are subject to
perpetual motion, revolution, and change,—to-day a city, to-morrow a heap. And there is nothing
between a great city and a heap but one day, nothing between a man and no man but one hour.
Our life is subject to infinite casualties, it may receive the fatal stroke from the meanest
thing, and most unexpected, it is a bubble floating upon the water, for this world is a watery
element, in continual motion with storm; and in these, so many poor dying creatures rise up,
and swim and float awhile, and are tossed up and down by the wind and wave; and the least puff
of wind or drop of rain sends it back to its own element. We are a vapour appearing for a very
little time—a creature of no solidity—a dream—a shadow and appearance of something; and this
dream or apparition is but for a little time, and then it evanisheth, not so much into nothing,
for it was little distant from nothing before, but it disappears rather. All human affairs
are like the spokes of a wheel, in such a continual circumgiration, as a captive king, who
was drawing Sesostris’s chariot, said, when he was looking often behind him. The king of Egypt,
Sesostris, demanded for what end did he look so often about him? Says he, “I am looking to
the wheel, musing upon the vicissitudes and permutations of it, how the highest parts are instantly
the lowest.” And this word repressed the king’s vain glory.(280) Now, in this constant wheeling
of outward things, which is the soul that enjoys true quiet and peace? Even that soul that
is fixed, as it were, in the centre upon God, that hath its abode in him; though the parts
without be in a continual violent motion, yet the centre of the wheel is at much peace, is
not violently turned, but gently complies to the changes of the other. And then consider the
madness of this,—“Thou knowest not, &c.” There are two reasons in the things themselves,—inconstancy,
and independency on us; but this is as pressing as any,—our ignorance of them; they are wholly
in the dark to us, as it were in the lower parts of the earth. As there is no more in our power
but the present hour,—for to yesterday we are dead already, for it is past and cannot return,
it is as it were buried in the grave of oblivion, and to to-morrow we are not yet born, for
it is not come to the light, and we know not if ever it will come,—so there is no more in our
knowledge but the present hour. The time past, though we remember it, yet it is without our
practical knowledge, it admits of no reformation by it; and the time to come is not born to
us, and it is all one as if we were not born to it. And indeed, in the Lord’s disposing of
all affairs under the sun, after this method, there is infinite wisdom and goodness both, though
at the first view men would think it better that all things went on after an uniform manner,
and that men knew what were to befall them. Yet, I say, God hath herein provided for his own
glory and the good of men,—his own glory, while he hath reserved to himself the absolute dominion
and perfect knowledge of his works, and exercises them in so great variety, that they may be
seen to proceed from him; and for our good,—for what place were there for the exercise of many
Christian virtues and graces, if it were not so? What place for patience, if there were no
cross dispensations? What place for moderation, if there were no prosperity? If there were
not such variety and vicissitude, how should the evenness and constancy of the spirit be known?
Where should contentment and tranquillity of mind have place? For it is a calm in a storm properly,
not a calm in a calm,—that is no virtue. If the several accidents of providence were foreseen
by us, what a marvellous perturbation and disorder would it make in our duty! Who would do
his duty out of conscience to God’s command, to commit events to him? Now, there is the trial
of obedience, to make us go by a way we know not, and resign ourselves to the all seeing providence,
whose eyes run to and fro throughout the earth. Therefore that no grace may want matter and
occasion of exercise; that no virtue may die out for want of fuel, or rust for lack of exercise,
God hath thus ordered and disposed the world. There is no condition, no posture of affairs,
in which he hath not left a fair opportunity for the exercising of some grace. Hath he shut
up and precluded the acting of one or many through affliction, then surely he hath opened a
wide door, and given large matter for self denial, humility, patience, moderation, and these
are as precious as any that look fairest. In a word, I think the very frame and method of the
disposing of this material world speaks aloud to this purpose. You see, when you look below,
there is nothing seen but the outside of the earth, the very surface of it only appears, and
there your sight is terminated, but look above, and there is no termination, no bounding of
the sight,—there are infinite spaces, all are transparent and clear without and within. Now,
what may this present unto us? One says, it shows us that our affections should be set upon
things above and not on things below, seeing below there is nothing but an outward appearance
and surface of things,—the glory and beauty of the earth is but skin deep, but heavenly things
are alike throughout, all transparent, nothing to set bounds to the affections; they are infinite,
and you may enlarge infinitely towards them. I add this other consideration, that God hath
made all things in time dark and opaque, like the earth. Look to them, you see only the outside
of them, the present hour, and what is beyond it you know no more, than you see the bowels
of the earth, but eternity is both transparent and conspicuous throughout, and infinite too.
Therefore God hath made us blind to the one, that we should not set our heart, nor terminate
our eyes upon any thing here, but he hath opened and spread eternity before us in the scriptures,
so that you may read and understand your fortune,—your everlasting estate in it. He hath shut
up temporal things and sealed them, and wills us to live implicitly, and give him the trust
of them without anxious foresight, but eternity he hath unveiled and opened unto us. Certain
it is, that no man, till he be fully possessed of God, who is an all sufficient good (Psal.
iv.) can find any satisfaction in any present enjoyment, without the addition of some hope
for the future. Great things without it will not content. For what is it all to a man if he
have no assurance for the time to come? And mean things with it will content. Great things
with little hope and expectation, fill with more vexation instead of joy, and the greater they
be, this is the more increased. Again, mean and low things, with great hopes and large expectations,
will give more satisfaction, therefore, all mankind have a look towards the morrow, and labour
to supply their present defects and wants, with hope or confidence of that. I would exhort
you who would indeed have solid matter of gloriation, and would not be befooled into a golden
dream of vain expectations of vain things, that ye would labour to fill up the vacuities of
present things with that great hope, the hope of salvation, which will be as an helmet to keep
your head safe in all difficulties, 1 Pet. i. 3, Heb. vi. 18, 19, Rom. v. 5. It is true, other
men’s expectations of gain and credit, and such things, do in some measure abate the torment
and pain of present wants and indigencies, but certain it is, that such hope is not so sovereign
a cordial to the heart, as to expel all grief, but leaves much vexation within. But then also,
the frequent disappointment of such projects and designs of gain, honour, and pleasure, and
the extreme unanswerableness of these to the desires and hopes of the soul, even when attained,
must needs breed infinitely more anxiety and vexation in the spirit, than the hope of them
could give of satisfaction, yea the more the expectation was, it cannot choose but the greater
shame and confusion must be. Therefore, if you would have your souls truly established, and
not hanging upon the morrow uncertainly, as the most part of men are get a look beyond the
morrow, unto that everlasting day of eternity, that hath no morrow(281) after it, and see what
foundation you can lay up for that time to come, as Paul bids Timothy counsel the rich men
in the world, who thought their riches and revenues, their offices and dignities, a foundation
and well spring of contentment to them and their children, and are ready to say with that man
in the parable, “Soul take thy rest, thou hast enough laid up for many years.” “Charge them,
says he,” &c. 1 Tim. vi. 16-19. O a charge worthy to be engraven on the tables of our hearts,
worthy to be written on the ports of all cities, and the gates of all palaces. You would all
have a foundation of lasting joy, says he, but why seek you lasting joy in fading things, and
certain joy in uncertain riches, and solid contentment in empty things, and not rather in the
living God, who is the unexhausted spring of all good things? Therefore, if you would truly
boast of to-morrow, or sing a solid requiem to your own hearts, there is another treasure to
be laid up in store against the time to come,—the time only worthy to be called time, that
is eternity, and that is study to do good, and be rich in good works, in works of piety, of
mercy, of equity, of sobriety. This is a better foundation for the time to come, or, rather
receive and embrace the promise of eternal life made to such,—that free and gracious promise
of life in the gospel, and so you may supply all the wants and indigencies of your present
enjoyments, with the precious hope of eternal life which cannot make ashamed. But what is the
way that the most part of men take to mitigate and sweeten their present hardships? Even like
that of the fool in the parable Luke xii. They either have something laid up for many years,
or else their projects and designs reach to many years. The truth is, they have more pleasure
in the expectation of such things, than in the real possession, but that pleasure is but imaginary
also. How many thoughts and designs are continually turning in the heart of man,—how to be
rich, how to get greater gain, or more credit? Men build castles in the air, and fancy to themselves,
as it were, new worlds of mere possible things, and in such an employment of the heart, there
is some poor deceiving of present sorrows, but at length they recur with greater violence.
Every man makes romances for himself, pretty fancies of his own fortune, as if he had the disposing
of it himself. He sits down, as it were, and writes an almanack and prognostication in his
own secret thoughts, and designs his own prosperity, gain, and advantage, and pleasures or
joys, and when we have thus ranked our hopes and expectation, then we begin to take complacency
in them, and boast ourselves in the confidence of them, as if there were not a supreme Lord
who gives a law to our affairs, as immediately as to the winds and rains.

Now, that you may know the folly of this, consider the reason which is subjoined,—“For thou
knowest not what a day may bring forth.” There is a concurrence of inconstancy in all things,
and ignorance in us, which might be sufficient to check our folly of confident and presumptuous
expectation from them, and gloriation in them, so that, whether we look about us to the things
themselves, or within us to ourselves, all things proclaim the folly and madness of that which
the heart of man is set upon. And this double consideration the apostle James opposes to the
vain hopes and confident undertakings of men, chap. iv. 13, &c., which place is a perfect commentary
upon this text, he brings in an instance of the resolutions and purposes of rich men, for the
compassing of gain by merchandise, whereby you may understand all the several designs and plots
of men, that are contrived and ordered, and laid down in the hearts of men, either for more
gain, or more glory, or more pleasure and ease. Now, the grand evil that is here reproved,
is not simply men’s care and diligence in using lawful means for their accommodation in this
life, or yet their wise and prudent foresight in ordering of their affairs for attaining that
end, for both these are frequently recommended and commended by the wise man Prov. vi. 6, and
xxiv. 27. But here is the great iniquity,—that men in all these contrivings and actings, carry
themselves as if they were absolute independents, without consideration of the sovereign universal
dominion of God. No man almost reflects upon that glorious Being, which alone hath the negative
and definitive sentence in all the motions and affairs of the sons of men, or considers, that
it is not in man that walks to direct his paths; that when all our thoughts and designs are
marshalled and ordered, and the completest preparation made for reaching our intended ends,
that yet the way of man is not in himself, that all these things are under a higher and more
absolute dominion of the most high God. Whose heart doth that often sound unto,—“A man’s heart
deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps,” and so is not bound by any rule to conform
his executions to our intentions? For he works all according to the counsel of his own will,
and not ours, and therefore, no wonder that the product of our actions does not answer our
intentions and devices, because the supreme rule and measure of them is above our power, and
without our knowledge. And therefore, though there were never so many devices in the heart
of man, never so wisely or lawfully contrived and ordered, though the mine be never so well
prepared, and all ready for the firing of it, yet the counsel of the Lord, that shall stand,
Prov. xix. 21, and xvi. 9. That higher determination may blow up our best consultations or
drown them, for man’s goings are of the Lord, how then can a man understand his paths? Prov.
xx. 24. And yet the most part of men, in all these things, lose the remembrance of this fatal
and invincible subordination to God, and propose their own affairs and actions, as if themselves
were to dispose of them, and when their own resolutions and projects seem probable, they begin
to please themselves in them, in the forethought of what they will do, or what they may have
or enjoy to morrow afterward; there is a present secret complacency and gloriation, without
any serious reminding the absolute dependence of all things upon the will of God, and their
independence upon our counsels without forecasting and often ruminating upon the perpetual
fluctuation and inconstancy of human affairs, but, as if we were the supreme moderators in
heaven and earth, so we act and transact our own business in a deep forgetfulness of him who
sits in heaven, and laughs at all our projects and practices and therefore, the Holy Ghost
would have this secret but serious thought to season all our other purposes and consultations,—“If
the Lord will,” &c. Whereas though we ought to say and think this, it is scarce minded, and
then we know not what shall be to morrow for our life itself is a vapour. Herein is a strong
argument,—you lay your designs for to morrow, for a year, for many years, and yet ye know not
if ye shall be to morrow. How many men’s projects are cast beyond that time that is measured
out on God’s counsel! And what a ridiculous thing must that be to him, if it be not done with
submissive and humble dependence on him! In a word time is with child of innumerable things,
conceived by the eternal counsel of God. Infinite and inconceivably various are those conceptions
which the womb of time shall at length bring forth to light. Every day, every hour, every minute
is travailing in pain, as it were, and is delivered of some one birth or another, and no creature
can open its womb sooner, or shut it longer, than the appointed and prefixed season. There
is no miscarrying as to him whose decrees do properly conceive them though to us they seem
often abortive. Now, join unto this, to make the allusion full, as long as they are carried
in the womb of time, they are hid from all the world. The womb is a dark lodging and no understanding
nor eye can pierce into it, to tell what is in it, till it break forth, and therefore, children
born are said to come to the light, for till then, they are to us in a cloud of darkness, that
we cannot tell what they are. So then, every day, every hour, every moment is about to bring
forth that which all the world is ignorant of, till they see it, and oh! that then they understood
it. We know not whether the morrow’s or next hour’s birth may be a proportioned child, or a
monster, whether it will answer the figure and mould that is in our mind, or be misshapen and
deformed to our sense. Men’s desires and designs may be said to conceive, for they form an
inward image and idea within themselves, to which they labour to make the product and birth
of time conformable, and when it answers our preconceived form, then we rejoice as for a man
child. But for the most part it is a monster as to our conception, it is an aberration from
our rule, it is either mutilated and defective of what we desire, or superfluous or deformed,
which turns our expectation into vexation, and our boasting into lamentation. But the truth
is, time brings forth no monsters as to the Lord’s decrees, which are the only just measures
of all things. It may be said of every thing under the sun, as David speaks of himself in the
womb, “My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously formed
in the lowest parts of the earth,” &c. Psal. cxxxix. 15. His eyes see all their substance,
yet being unperfect, and in his everlasting book all their members are written, the portraiture
of every thing is drawn there to the life, and these in continuance are fashioned just as they
were written and drawn, and so they exactly correspond to his preconception of them, whatever
deformity they may have as to us, yet they are perfect works, and beautiful to him.

Sermon VIII. There is no prophet whose office and commission is only for judgment, nay, to
speak the truth, it is mercy that premises threatenings. The entering of the law, both in the
commands and curses, is to make sin abound, that grace may superabound, so that both rods and
threatenings are the messengers of Jesus Christ, to bring sinners to him for salvation. Every
thing should be measured and named by its end, so, call threatenings promises, call rods and
judgments mercies, name all good, and good to you, if so be you understand the purpose of God
in these. The shortest preaching in the Bible useth to express itself what it means, though
it be never so terrible. This is a sad and lamentable beginning of a prophet’s ministry, the
first word is, to the heavens and to the earth(282) a weighty and horrible regrate(283) of
this people, as if none of them were to hear, as if the earth could be more easily affected
than they. The creatures are taken witnesses by God of their ingratitude, and then who shall
speak for them? If heaven and earth be against them, who shall speak good of them? Will their
own conscience? No certainly, it will, in the day of witnessing and judging, precipitate its
sentence, and spare the judge the labour of probation, “a man’s enemy shall be within his own
house,” though now your consciences agree with you. Nay, why doth the Lord speak to them? Because
the people consider not, because consciences have given over speaking to them, therefore the
Lord directs his word to the dumb earth. Yet how gracious is he, as to direct a second word
even to the people, though a sad word? It is a complaint of iniquity and backsliding, and such
as cannot be uttered, yet it is mercy to challenge them, yea, to chasten them. If the Lord
would threaten a man with pure and unmixed judgments, if he would frame a threatening of a
rod of pure justice, I think it should be this, “I will no more reprove thee, nor chasten thee,”
and he is not far from it, when he says, “Why shall ye be stricken any more?” &c. ver. 5. As
if he would say, It is in vain now to send a rod, ye receive no correction. I sent the rod,
that it might open your hearts and ears to the word, and seal your instruction,—but to what
purpose is it?—Ye grow worse and worse. Well, the prophet compares here sin and judgment, and
the one far surmounts the other. Ye would think a desolate country, burnt cities, desolation
made by strangers, a sufficient recompense of their corruption and misorders, of their forsaking
and backsliding. Ye would think now, if your present condition and the land’s pressed you to
utter Jeremiah’s lamentation, a sadder than which is not almost imaginable, ye would think,
I say, that you had received double for all your sins. And yet, alas! how are your iniquities
of infinite more desert? All that were mercy, which is behind infinite and eternal punishment.
That there is room left for complaint, is mercy, that there is a remnant left, is mercy.

Now, to proclaim unto this people, and convince them that their judgment was not severe, he
gives them one word from God. And, indeed, it is strange, that when the rod is sent, because
of the despising of the word, that after the despising of both word and rod, another word should
come. Always this word is a convincing word, a directing word, and a comforting word. These
use to be conjoined, and if they be not always expressed, we may lawfully understand them.
We may join a consolation to a conviction, and close a threatening with a promise, if we take
with a threatening. Jonah’s preaching expressed no more but a threatening and denunciation
of judgment, but the people understood it according to God’s meaning and made it a rule of
direction, and so a ground of consolation. How inexcusable are we, who have all these expressed
unto us, and often inculcated, “line upon line, and precept upon precept,” and yet so often
divide the word of truth, or neglect it altogether. Most part fancy a belief of the promises
and neither consider threatenings nor commands. Some believing the threatenings, are not so
wise for their own salvation as to consider what God says more, but take it for his last word.
Shall not Nineveh rise up in judgment against this generation? They repented at one preaching,
and that a short one, and in appearance very defective, and yet we have many preachings of
the Son of God and his apostles in this Bible,—both law and gospel holden forth distinctly,
and these spoken daily in our audience, and yet we repent not.

This is a strange preface going before this preaching, and more strange in that it is before
the first preaching of a young prophet. He speaks both to rulers and people, but he gives them
a name such as certainly they would not take to themselves, but seeing he is to speak the word
of the Lord, he must not flatter them, as they did themselves. Is not this the Lord’s people,
his portion and inheritance which he chose out of the nations? Are not these rulers the princes
of Judah, and the Lord’s anointed? Were they not both in covenant with God, and separated from
the nations both in privileges and profession? How then are they “rulers of Sodom” and “people
of Gomorrah” likened to the worst of the nations, and not likened to them but spoken of as
if they were indeed all one. When ye hear the preface ye would think that the prophet was about
to direct his speech to Sodom and Gomorrah, but when you look upon the preaching ye find he
means Judah and Jerusalem, and these are the rulers and people he speaks of. Certainly, according
as men walk, so shall they be named and ranked. External privileges and profession may give
a name before men, and separate men from men before the world, but they give no name, make
no difference, before God, if all other things be not suitable to these. “He is not a Jew,
saith Paul, who is one outwardly,” but he who hath that circumcision in the heart, in the spirit,
and not in the letter. Outward profession and signs may have praise of men, but it is this
that hath praise of God, Rom. ii. 28, 29. Circumcision and uncircumcision, baptism or unbaptism,
availeth nothing, but a new creature. A baptized Christian and an unbaptized Turk are alike
before God, if their hearts and ways be one, Gal. vi. 15. All Christians profess faith, and
glory in baptism, but it avails nothing except it work by love, Gal. v. 6.

Now, what name shall we give you? How shall our rulers be called? How shall ye, the people,
be called? If we shall speak the truth, we fear it will instruct you not, but irritate you,
yet the truth we must speak, whether ye choose or whether ye refuse. You would all be called
Christians, the people of God, but we may not call you so, except we would flatter you, and
deceive you by flattering, and murder you by deceiving. We would gladly name you Christians
in the spirit, saints chosen and precious. O that we might speak so to rulers and people! but,
alas, we may not call you so except ye were so indeed, we may not call you Christians lest
ye believe yourselves to be so. And yet, alas, ye will think yourselves such, speak what we
can. Would you know your name then? I perceive you listen to hear what it is. But understand,
that it is your name before God, which bears his account of you. What matter of a name among
men? It is often a shadow without substance, a name without the thing. If God name you otherwise,
you shall have little either honour or comfort in it, when men bless you and praise you, if
the Lord reckon you among the beasts that perish, are ye honoured indeed? Well, then, hear
your name before God. What account hath he of you? Ye rulers are rulers of Sodom, and ye people
are people of Gomorrah. And if ye think this a hard saying, I desire you will notice the way
that the prophet Isaiah takes to prove his challenge against them, and the same may be alleged
against rulers and people now. We need no proof but one of both, see ver. 23,—“Thy princes
are rebellious, because, though they hear much against their sins, yet they never amend them,
they pull away their shoulder, if they hear, yet they harden their heart.” Is there any of
them hath set to pray in their families, though earnestly pressed? Well, what follows? “Every
one loves gifts.” Covetousness, then, and oppression proves rulers to be rulers of Sodom. Shall
then houses stand, “shalt thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar?” Jer. xxii. 15.
No certainly, men shall one day take up a proverb against them. “Woe to him that increaseth
that which is not his, and ladeth himself with thick clay, they shall be for booties to the
Lord’s spoilers,” Hab. ii. 6. Woe to them, for they have consulted shame to their houses, and
sinned against their own soul. Their design is to establish their house, and make it eminent,
but they take a compendious way to shame and ruin it. Alas, it is too public, that rulers seek
their own things, for themselves and their friends, and for Jesus and his interests they are
not concerned. But are ye, the people, any whit better? O that it were so! But alas, when ye
are involved in the same guiltiness, I fear ye partake of their plagues! What are ye then?
“People of Gomorrah.” Is not the name of God blasphemed daily because of you? Are not the abominations
of the Gentiles the common disease of the multitude, and the very reproach of Christianity?
Set apart your public services and professions, and is there any thing behind in your conversation,
but drunkenness, lying, swearing, contention, envy, deceit, wrath, covetousness, and such like?
Have not the multitude of them been as civil, and carried themselves as blamelessly, and without
offence, as the throng of our visible church? What have ye more than they? It is true, ye are
called Christians, and ye boast in it. Ye know his will, and can speak of points of religion,
can teach and instruct others, and so have, as it were, in your minds a form and method of
knowledge,—the best of you are but such. But I ask, as Paul did the Jews in such a case, “Thou
that teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? Thou that makest a boast of the law, through
breaking of it, dishonourest thou God?” Rom. ii. 17-23. Why then, certainly all thy profession
and baptism avail nothing, and will never extract thee from the pagans, with whom thou art
one in conversation. Thy profession is so far from helping thee in such a case, that it shall
be the most bitter ingredient in thy cup of judgment, for it is the greatest aggravation of
thy sin, for through it God’s name is blasphemed. If they had not known, they had not had sin.
Pagan’s sin is no sin in respect of Christians. If ye consider Christ’s sermon, Matt. xi.,
ye will say Isaiah is a meek and moderate man in regard of him. Isaiah calls them people of
Gomorrah, but Christ will have them worse, and their judgment more intolerable than theirs.
And that not only the profane of them, but the civil and religious like who believe not in
him. Well, then, here is the advantage ye get of your name of Christianity, of your privilege
of hearing his word daily, ye who never ponder it, to tremble at it, or to rejoice in it, who
cannot be moved either to joy or grief for spiritual things, neither law nor gospel moves the
most part of you. I say, here is all your gain,—ye shall receive a reward with Gentiles and
pagans, yea, ye shall be in a worse case than they in the day of the Lord. The civil Christian
shall be worse than the profane Turk, and ye shall not then boast that ye were Christians,
but shall desire that ye had dwelt in the place where the gospel had never been preached. It
is a character of the nations, that they call not on God, and of heathen families, that they
pray not to him, (Jer. x. 25,) and wrath must be poured on them. What, then, are the most part
of you? Ye neither bow a knee in secret nor in your families, to God. Your time is otherwise
employed, ye have no leisure to pray twice or thrice a day alone, except when ye put on your
clothes ye utter some ordinary babblings. Ye cannot be driven to family worship. Shall not
God rank you in judgment with those heathen families? Or shall it not be more tolerable for
them than for you? And are not the most part of you every one given to covetousness, your heart
and eye after it, seeking gain and advantage more than the kingdom of heaven? Doth not every
one of you, as you have power in your hand, oppress one another, and wrong one another? Now,
our end in speaking thus to you, is not to drive you to desperation. No, indeed, but as there
was a word of the Lord sent to such by Isaiah, so we bring a word unto you. That which ruins
you, is your carnal confidence. Ye are presumptuous as this people, and cry, “The temple of
the Lord, the work of the Lord,” &c. as if these would save you. Know, therefore, that all
these will never cover you in the day of wrath. Know there is a necessity to make peace with
God, and your righteousness must exceed the righteousness of a profession, and external privileges
and duties, or else ye shall be as far from the kingdom of heaven as Sodom and Gomorrah. We
speak of rulers’ sins, that ye may mourn for them, lest ye be judged with them. If ye do not
mourn for them in secret, know that they are your sins, ye are companions with them. Many fret,
grudge, and cry out against oppression, but who weeps in secret? Who prays and deprecates God’s
wrath, lest it come upon them? And while it is so, the oppression of rulers becomes the sin
of the oppressed themselves.

“Hear the word of the Lord.” It were a suitable preparation for any word that is spoken, to
make it take impression, if it were looked on “as the word of the Lord,” and “law of our God.”
And truly no man can hear aright unless he hear it so. Why doth not this word of the Lord return
with more fruit? Why do not men tremble or rejoice at it? Certainly, because it is not received
as God’s word. There is a practical heresy in our hearts, which rather may be called atheism—we
do not believe the Scriptures. I do not say men call it in question, but I say, ye believe
them not. It is one thing to believe with the heart, another thing not to doubt of it. Ye doubt
not of it, not because ye do indeed believe it, but because ye do not at all consider it. It
is one thing to confess with the mouth, and another thing to believe with the heart, for ye
confess the Scriptures to be God’s word, not because ye believe them, but because ye have received
such a tradition from your fathers, have heard it from the womb unquestioned. O that this were
engraven on your heart—that these commands, these curses, these promises are divine truths,
the words and the oath of the Holy One! If every word of truth came stamped with his authority,
and were received in the name of God himself, what influence would it have on the spirits and
the practices of men?  This would be a great reformer, would reform more in a month, than church
and state hath done these many years. Why are rulers and people not converted and healed for
all that is spoken? Here it is, “Who believes our report?” Who believes that our report is
thy own testimony, O Lord?  When ministers threaten you in God’s name,—if his authority were
stamped on the threatening, if men did seriously apprehend it were God’s own voice, would they
not tremble? When the gospel and the joyful sound comes forth, if he apprehended that same
authority upon it, which ye who are convinced believe to be in the law, would ye not be comforted?
Finally, I may say, it is this point of atheism, of inconsideration and brutishness, that destroys
the multitude, makes all means ineffectual to them, and retards the progress of Christians.
Men do not consider, that this word is the word of the eternal, and true, and faithful God,
and that not one jot of it will fail. Here is a point of reformation I would put you to, if
ye mind indeed to reform, let this enter into your hearts and sink down, that the law and gospel
is the word of God, and resolve to come and hear preachings so, as the voice “of Jesus Christ,
the true and faithful witness.” If ye do not take it so now, yet God will judge you so at the
end. “He that despiseth you, despiseth me, and he that hears not you, hears not me.” If ye
thought ye had to do with God every Sabbath, would ye come so carelessly, and be so stupid
and inconsiderate before the Judge of all the earth? But ye will find in the end, that it was
God whom ye knew not.

Sermon IX.

    Isaiah i. 11.—“To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices
    unto me? saith the Lord,” &c.

This is the word he calls them to hear and a strange word. Isaiah asks, What mean your sacrifices?
God will not have them. I think the people would say in their own hearts, What means the prophet?
What would the Lord be at? Do we anything but what he commanded us? Is he angry at us for obeying
him? What means this word? Is he not repealing the statute and ordinance he had made in Israel?
If he had reproved us for breach of commands, for omission and neglect of sacrifices, we would
have taken with it, but what means this reproof for well doing? The Lord is a hard master.
If we neglect sacrifices, and offer up the worst of the flock, he is angry, if we have a care
of them, and offer them punctually, and keep appointed days precisely, he is angry.  What shall
we do to please him? I think many of you are put to as great a non plus, when your prayers
and repentance and fasting are quarrelled, do ye not say in your hearts, we know not what to
do? Ministers are angry at us if we pray not, and our praying they cry out against, they command
us to repent and fast, and yet say that God will abhor both these. This is a mystery, and we
shall endeavour to unfold it to you from the word. It concerns us to know how God is pleased
with our public services and fastings for the most part of people have no more religion. Ye
all, I know, desire to know what true religion is. Consult the Scriptures, and search them,
for there ye shall find eternal life. We frame to ourselves a wrong pattern and copy of it,
and so we judge ourselves wrong. Our narrow spirits do not take in the latitude of the Scripture’s
religion, but taking in one part we exclude another, and think God rigid if it be not taken
off our hand so. But, I pray, consider these three things, which seem to make up the good old
way, the religion of the Old and New Testaments—

First, Religion takes in all the commands,—it is universal, hath respect to all the commandments,
Psal. cxix. 6. It carries the two tables in both hands, the first table in the right hand,
and the second in the left. These are so entirely conjoined, that if you receive not both,
you cannot receive any truly.

Secondly, It takes in all the man, his soul and spirit as well as his body, nay, it principally
includes that which is principal in the man, his soul and spirit, his mind and affections.
If ye divide these, ye have not a man present but a body, and what fellowship can bodies have
with him who is a Spirit? If ye divide these among themselves, ye have not a spirit indeed
present if the mind be not present, surely the heart cannot, but if the mind be, and the heart
away, religion is not religion, but some empty speculation. The mind cannot serve but by the
heart, where the heart is, there a man is reckoned to be.

Thirdly, It takes in Jesus Christ as all, and excludes altogether a man’s self. He worships
God in the spirit, but he rejoices not in himself, and in his spirit, but in Jesus Christ,
and hath no confidence in himself, or the flesh, Phil. iii. 3, 8. It includes the soul and
spirit, and all the commands, but it denies them all, and embraces Jesus Christ by faith, as
the only object of glorying in and trusting in. All a man’s self becomes dross in this consideration.
Now, the first of these is drawn from the last, therefore it appears first—I say, an endeavour
in walking in every thing commanded, of conforming our way to the present rule and pattern,
is a stream flowing from the pure heart within. A man’s soul and affections must once be purified,
before it sends out such streams in conversation. And from whence doth that pure heart come?
Is it the fountain and original? No certainly. The heart is desperately wicked above all things,
and how will it cleanse itself? But this purity proceeds from another fountain,—from faith
in Jesus Christ, and it is this that lies nearest the uncreated fountain Christ himself, it
is the most immediate conduit the mouth of the fountain or the bucket to draw out of the deep
wells of salvation. All these are conjoined in this order, 1 Tim. i. 5—“The end of the commandment
is love.” Ye know love is said elsewhere to be the fulfilling of the law, and when we say love,
we mean all duties to God and man, which love ought immediately to principle. Now this love
proceeds from a pure heart, cleansed and sanctified, which pure heart proceeds from faith unfeigned.
So then, we must go up in our searching from external obedience all alongst, till we arrive
at the inward fountain of Christ dwelling in us by faith, and then have ye found true religion
indeed. Now, ye may think possibly, we have used too much circumlocution: what is all this
to the present purpose? Yes, very much. Ye shall find the Lord rejecting this people’s public
worship and solemn ordinances upon these three grounds,—either they did not join with them
the observation of weightier commands, or they did not worship him in them with their spirits,
had not souls present, or they knew not the end and use for which God had appointed these sacrifices
and ceremonies, they did not see to the end of all, which was Jesus Christ.

First, then, I say the people were much in external sacrifices and ceremonies, commanded of
God, but they were ignorant of the end of his commands, and of the use of them. Ye know in
themselves they had no goodness, but only in relation to such an end as he pleased they should
lead to, but they stayed upon the ceremony and shadow, and were not led to use it as a means
for such an end; and so, though they fancied that they obeyed, and pleased God, yet really
they wholly perverted his meaning and intention in the command; therefore doth the Lord plead
with them in this place for their sacrificing, as if it had been murder. They used to object
his commands. What, says the Lord, did I command these things? Who required them? Meaning certainly,
who required them for such an end, to take away your sin? Who required them but as a shadow
of the substance to come? Who required them but as signs of that Lamb and sacrifice to be offered
up in the fulness of time? And forasmuch as ye pass over all these, and think to please me
with the external ceremony, was that ever my intent or meaning? Therefore, it was to signify
to them (who thought God would be pleased with them for their offering) that he could not endure
them; it was worse to him to offer him such a recompense, than if they had done none at all.
He is only well pleased in his well-beloved Son; and when they separate a lamb or a bullock
from the well-beloved, what was it to him more than “a dog’s neck” or “swine’s flesh?” It was
his creature, as these are, and no more, Isa. lxvi. 3. Now that they looked never beyond the
ceremonies, is evident, because they boasted in them; they used to find out these as a remedy
of their sins, and a mean to pacify God’s wrath, Micah vi. 6. Paul bears witness of it, 2 Cor.
iii. 13-15. Moses had a vail of ceremonies over his face, and the children of Israel could
not steadfastly look to the end of that mystery, Christ Jesus, but their minds were blinded,
and are so to this day in the reading of the scriptures; and this vail of hardness of heart
shall be done away when Christ returns to them again. Now, I say, it is just so with us. There
was never a people liker other than we are like the Jews. We have many external ordinances,
preaching, hearing, baptism, communion, reading, singing, praying in public, extraordinary
solemnities of fasting and thanksgiving, works of discipline and government, public reproof
to sinners, confessions and absolutions. What would ye think if we should change the terms
of sacrifices and new moons, and speak all this to you? To what purpose is the multitude of
your fasts and feasts, of your preachings and communions, of your praying in secret, and in
your families, of conference and prayer with others, of running to and fro to hear preaching,
to partake of the Lord’s table? I am full of them, I delight not in them. When ye come here
on the Sabbath, who required at your hand to tread my courts? Come no more to hear the word,
run no more after communions, seek no more baptism to your children, call no more solemn assemblies,
it is all iniquity. O, say ye, that is a strange preaching indeed! Must we pray no more, hear
no more, sing no more? Did not God command these? Why do ye discharge them? We do not mean
so, that these should not be, but they should be in another way: all these want the soul and
life of them, which is Jesus Christ in them. Do ye not think yourselves religious, because
ye frequent these? The multitude of the people think that these please God, and pacify his
wrath: ye have no other thing in your mind but these. If ye can attain any sorrow or grief
for sin, or any tears to signify it, presently you absolve yourselves for your repentance.
The scandalous who appear in public, think the paying of a penalty to the judge, and bowing
the knee before the congregation,(284) satisfies God. Ye miss nothing when ye have these. I
speak to the professors of religion also, who pretend to more knowledge than others, when ye
have gone about so many duties, ye are well satisfied if ye get liberty in them. If ye can
satisfy yourselves, ye doubt not of God’s satisfaction; and if ye do not satisfy yourselves
in your duties, ye cannot believe his satisfaction. Ye get the ordinance, and miss nothing.
Now, I say, in all this ye do not reach to the end of this ministry, Jesus Christ; ye do not
steadfastly behold him, to empty yourselves in his bosom, to turn over all the unrighteousness
of your holy things upon him who bears it. That which pleaseth you, is not “he in whom the
Father is well-pleased,” but the measure of your own duty. O, the establishing of our own righteousness
is the ruin of the visible Church! This is the grand idol, and all sacrifice to it. Know, therefore,
that the most part of your performances are abomination and iniquity, because ye have so much
confidence in them, and put them not upon Christ as filthy rags, or do not cover them with
his righteousness, as well as your wickedness. I know ye will say, that ye are not satisfied
with them, and that is still the matter of your exercise. Well, I affirm, in the Lord’s name,
from that ground, that ye have confidence in them, for if your diffidence and disquietness
arise from it, your confidence and peace must come from it also. Is there any almost that maintain
faith, except when their own conditions please them well? And that faith I may call no faith,
at least not pure and cleanly entire faith. As for the multitude of you, you must know this,
that God is not pleased with your prayers, and fasting, and hearing, &c. because ye have such
an esteem of them, because ye can settle yourselves against all threatenings, and never once
remember of Jesus Christ, or consider the end of his coming into the world; because ye find
no necessity of pardon for your prayers and righteousness, but stretch the garment of these
over the uncleanness of your practices. What delight hath the Lord in them, when they are put
in his Son’s place? Will he not be jealous that his Son’s glory be not given to another?

In the second place, the Lord rejects their performances, because there was nothing but a mere
shadow of service, and no worshipping of God in the Spirit. Ye know what Christ saith, “God
is a Spirit, and he that worships him must do it in spirit and in truth,” John iv. 24. It is
the heart and soul that God delights in, “My son, give me thy heart,” for if thou give not
thy heart, I care for nothing else. The heart is the whole man. What a man’s affection is,
that he is. Light is not so,—it brings not the man alongst with it. Christ Jesus hath given
himself for us, and he requires that we offer ourselves to him. If we offer a body to frequent
his house, our feet to tread in his courts, our ears to hear his word, what cares he for it,
as long as the soul doth not offer itself up in prayer or hearing? And this was the sin of
this people, Isaiah xxix. 13. “They draw near with the lips, and their heart is far from the
Lord.” Now are we not their children, and have succeeded to this? Is there any thing almost
in our public services, but what is public? Is there any thing but what is seen of men? Ye
come to hear, ye sit and hear, and is there any more? The most part have their minds wandering,
no thoughts present; for your thoughts are removed about your barns and corns, or some business
in your head; and if any have their thoughts present, yet where are affections, which are the
soul and spirit of religion, without which it is no true fire but wild fire, if it be not both
burning and shining? Are ye serious in these ordinances? Or rather, are ye not more serious
in any thing beside? And now, especially, when God’s providence calls you to earnest thoughts,
when it cries to all men to enter into consideration of their own ways, I pray you, is there
any soul-affliction in your fasts even for a day? Is there any real grief or token of it? Not
a fast in Scripture without weeping! We have kept many, and have never advanced so far. Shall
the Lord then be pacified? Will not his soul abhor them? How shall they appease him for your
other provocations, when they are as oil to the flame, to increase his indignation? The most
part of Christians are guilty here; we come to the ordinances, as it were, to discharge a custom,
and perform a ceremony, that we may have it to say to our conscience that it is done, and there
is no more intent and purpose. We do not seek to have soul-communion with God. We come to sermon
to hear some new thing, or new truth, or new fashion of it; to learn a notional experience
of cases. But alas, this is not the great purpose and use of these things. It is to have some
new sense of those things we know. We know already, but we should come to get the truth more
received in our love, to serve God in our spirits, and to return to him ourselves in a sacrifice
acceptable. This is the greater half, if not the whole of religion,—love to Jesus Christ who
loved us, and living to him, because he died for us, and living to him because we love him.
Now, all our ordinances and duties should be channels to carry our love to him, and occasions
of venting our affections.

Thirdly, The Lord rejected this people’s services, because they were exact and punctual in
them, and neglected other parts of his commandments; and this is clearly expressed here, “I
will not hear” your prayers, though there be many of them. Why? “Your hands are full of blood.”
Ye come to worship me, and pray to me, and yet there are many abominations in your conversation,
which you continue in, and do not challenge in yourselves. Ye have unclean hands; and shall
your prayers be accepted, which should come up with pure hands? They took his covenant in their
mouth, and offered many sacrifices, but what have ye to do with these things, saith the Lord,
since ye hate to be reformed, since ye hate personal reformation of your lives, and in your
families? What have ye to do to profess to be my people? Psal. l. 16, 17. The Lord requires
an universality, if ye would prove sincerity: if ye have respect to any of his commands, as
his commands, then will ye respect all. If ye be partial, and choose one duty that is easy,
and refuse another harder,—will come to the church and hear, but will not pray at home,—will
fast in public, but not in private,—then, says the Lord, ye do not at all obey me, but your
own humour; ye do not at all fast unto me, but unto yourselves. As much as your interest lies
in a duty, so much are ye carried to it. And I take this to be the reason why many are so eager
in pursuing public ordinances, following communions, and conferences with God’s people, ready
to pray in public rather than alone. If ye would follow them into their secret chamber, how
much indifferency is there! How great infrequency, how little fervency! Well, says the Lord,
did ye pray to me when ye prayed among others? No, ye prayed either to yourselves, or the company,
or both. Did ye seek me in a communion? No, saith the Lord, ye sought not me, but yourselves:
if ye sought me indeed with others, you would be as earnest, if not more, to seek me alone,
Zech. vii. 6. And again, the Lord especially requires the weightier matters of the law to be
considered. As it was among the Jews, their ceremonies were commanded, and so good; but they
were not so much good in themselves as because they were means appointed for another end and
use. But the moral law was binding in itself, and good in itself, without relation to another
thing; and therefore Christ lays this heavy charge to the Pharisees, “Ye tithe mint and anise,”
Matt. xxiii. 23. “Woe unto you, for ye neglect the weightier matters of the law, judgment,
mercy, and faith: these ye ought to have done, and not left the other undone.” Are there not
many who would think it a great fault to stay away from the church on the Sabbath or week day,
and yet will not stick to swear,—to drink often? “Woe unto you, for ye strain at a gnat, and
swallow a camel;” therefore are the prophets full of these expostulations. The Lord tells you
what he requires of you. Is it not to do justly, and walk humbly with God? Mic. vi. 7. 15,
16. You think you know God when you can discourse well of religion, and entertain conferences
of practical cases. You think it is knowledge to understand preachings and scripture; but thus
saith the Lord, to do justly to all men, to walk humbly towards God, to walk soberly in yourselves,
is more real knowledge of God, than all the volumes of doctors contain, or the heads of professors.
Is this knowledge of God to have a long flourishing discourse containing much religion in it?
Alas, no! to do justly, to oppress none, to pray more in secret, to walk humbly and soberly,
this is to know the Lord. Practice is real knowledge indeed: it argues, that what a man knows,
he receives in love, that the truth hath a deep impression on the heart, that the light shines
into the heart to inflame it. What is knowledge before God? As much as principles, affection,
and action, as much as hath influence on your conversations; if you do not, and love not what
you know, is that to know the Lord? Shall not your knowledge be a testimony against your practice,
and no more? We think that God should be as well-pleased with our service as we ourselves,
therefore we choose his commands which our humour hath no particular antipathy against and
refuse others. But the Lord will not be so served: as he will not share with the world, and
divide the soul and service of man with creatures, so as mammon should get part, and he his
part. No, if we choose the one, we must refuse the other; for so will he not suffer his word
and commands to be divided: there must be some universality in respect of the gospel and the
law, and a conjunction of these two, or we cannot please him.

If religion do not include the gospel, we are yet upon the old covenant of works, according
to which none can be justified. If it do not include the law in the hands of a mediator, then
we turn the grace of God unto wantonness. If it shut out Jesus Christ and have no use of him,
how can either we or our performances stand or be accepted before his holy eyes? If it exclude
the law that Christ came to establish, how can he be pleased with our religion? both of these
offer an indignity to the Son of God. The sum, then, of Christian religion is believing and
sanctification of the Spirit unto obedience. That is the root and fountain, this is the fruit
and stream; justification of our persons, and sanctification of our lives and hearts. This
is pure religion and undefiled. And therefore Isaiah says, “Wash you, make you clean,”—cleanse
in the only true fountain of Christ’s blood. It is not your purifications of the law, your
many washings with water and hyssop; it is not the blood of bulls and of goats can purge your
consciences from dead works: they do but purify your flesh, but cannot wash your souls worse
defiled. This blood of Jesus Christ is that clean water that he must sprinkle on you, if you
would be clean. If you take any other water, any other righteousness but his, and wash thyself
therewith, suppose it be snow water that washeth cleanest—thy most exact conversation, yet,
he will plunge thee in the mire, till thine own clothes abhor thee, Job ix. 30, 31. Now, when
you have washed your persons (ye need not, save to wash your feet, says Christ,)—your daily
conversation, reform it in the virtue of that blood, for we are not called “to uncleanness,
but unto holiness,” and therefore, “put away the evil of your doings,” &c. God hath put away
the guilt of your doings by justification, now put ye away the evil of your doings by sanctification,
&c. And if ye would know what sanctification is, “cease to do evil,” do not return to the old
puddle to wallow in it. Ye that are cleansed by this blood, O think how unbeseeming it is to
you to defile yourselves again with those things ye are cleansed from! but now, “learn to do
well.” Ye are given up to Christ, ye must be his disciples, and he will teach you. “Learn of
me,” saith Christ, (ye need no other law almost but his example, he is a visible and speaking
law), yet “seek judgment.” As ye ought to look on my example, so especially ponder that word
and rule of practice and behaviour that I have left behind me, and given out as the lawgiver
of the redeemed. Have I redeemed you, and should not I be the redeemed and ransomed one’s king?
Is there any society in the world wants a law, order, and government? Neither must ye who are
delivered from bondage, enfranchised and made free indeed. Now, ye should of all men most live
by a law. And when ye know that rule, then apply it to your several vocations and callings.
Let the magistrate act according to it, and every man according to it. Religion consists not
in a general notion, but condescends to our particular practice, to reform it. You see then
what we would press upon your consciences. It is true religion that we would have you persuaded
unto. All men have some kind of religion, even heathens who worship idols, but the true religion
respects the true and living God. Now, what is it to worship the true and living God? What
is the service of him that may be called religion indeed? Should we be the prescrivers of it?(287)
No certainly, he must carve solely in that, or else it cannot please him, therefore “to the
law and to the testimony,” if ye speak not according to this, and worship not according to
this word of God, “it is because there is no light in you.” Ye may have a religion before men
pure and undefiled, but if it be not so before God and the Father, I pray you to what purpose
is it? I am sure it is all lost labour, nay, it is labour with loss, instead of gain. O that
ye were persuaded to look and search the scriptures. Think ye to have eternal life out of them?—and
think ye to have eternal life by them, who do not labour to know the way of it set down there?
Every one of you hath a different model of religion, according to your fancies and breedings,
according as your lusts will suffer you. The rule that the most part walk by is the course
and example of the world. Is not this darkness, and gross darkness? Others model their duties
according to their ability. They will do all they can do with ease, and without troubling themselves,
and they think God may be well pleased with that. I pray you consider and hear the word of
the Lord, and law of your God. Hath he set down here the rule and perfect pattern of true religion,
and will ye never so much own it, as to examine yours according to it? The scriptures are the
touchstone, if you would not have a counterfeit religion deceiving you in the end, when ye
have trusted to it, I pray you try it by the word of God. Oh! that this principle were once
sunk into your hearts,—I may not walk at random, if I please myself, and satisfy my own will,
if that be not also God’s will, I shall have neither gain nor comfort of it. His will is manifested
in his word,—I will search and find what God hath required of me, for if I be not certain of
his will, I may be doing all my days, and sweating out my life, and yet lose my pains and toil.
I say, this word of the Lord that Isaiah calls to the people to hear, ver. 10, will at length
judge you. Your religion will be tried in the day of accounts according to it, not according
to your rules and methods ye have prescribed unto yourselves. Now, if ye in the meantime shall
judge yourselves, according to another rule, and absolve yourselves, and in the end God shall
judge you according to this word, and condemn you, were ye not fools in neglecting this word?

The whole will of God concerning your duty may be summed up in two, John hath one of them,
1 John iii. 23, “And this is his commandment, that we should believe on the name of his Son
Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment,” and Paul hath another to the
Thessalonians, 1 Thess iv. 3, “This is the will of God, even your sanctification.” And these
two make up this text, so that it unites both gospel and law. The commandment of the law comes
forth, and it is found that we have broken and are guilty, that we cannot answer for one of
a thousand. The law entering makes sin abound. Our inability, yea, impossibility of obedience
is more discovered. Well, then, the gospel proclaims the Lord Jesus Christ for the Saviour
of sinners, and commands us, under pain of damnation, to believe in him,—to cast our souls
on him, as one able to save, as one who hath obeyed the law for us, so that this command of
believing in Christ is answerable to all the breaches of the law, and tends to make them up
in Christ. When he proclaimed the law on mount Sinai, with terror, that which ye hear expressed
is not his first commandment, which ye are in the first instance to obey, for all these we
have broken, but it hath a gospel command in its bosom, it leads to Jesus Christ, and if ye
could read the mind of God in it, ye would resolve all these commands which condemn you and
curse you, into one command of believing in the Son, that ye may be saved from that condemnation.
And if ye obey this command, which is his last command, and most peremptory, then are the breaches
of all the rest made up, the intent of all the rest is fulfilled, though not in your obedience,
yet in Christ’s, which is better than ours. Believing in Christ presents God with a perfect
righteousness, with an obedience even to the death of the cross. When a sinner hears the holy
and spiritual sense of the law, and sees it in the light of God’s holiness, O how vile must
he appear to himself, and how must he abhor himself! What original pollution, what actual pollution,
what a fountain within, what uncleanness in streams without, will discover itself! Now, when
the most part of men get any sight of this, presently they fall a washing and cleansing themselves,
or hiding their filthiness. And what water take they? Their own tears and sorrows, their own
resolutions, their own reformations. But alas, we are still more plunged in our own filthiness;
that is still marked before him, because all that is as foul as that we would have washen away.
What garment do men take to hide themselves ordinarily? Is it not their own righteousness?
Is it not a skirt of some duty that is spread over transgressions? Do not men think their sins
hid, if they can mourn and pray for a time? Their consciences are eased by reflection upon
this. But alas, thine iniquity is still marked! Shall filthiness hide filthiness? Thy righteousness
is as a vile garment, as a menstruous cloth, (Isa. lxiv. 6.) as well as thine unrighteousness,
how then shall it cover thine nakedness? Seeing it is so then, what is the Lord’s mind concerning
our cleansing? Seeing stretched out hands and many prayers will not do it, what shall I do?
The Lord hath showed thee what thou shalt do, and that is, that thou do nothing in relation
to that end, that thou shouldst undertake to wash away the least spot by all thy repentance.
Yet must thou wash and make clean, and the water is brought new unto you, even the blood of
Jesus Christ that cleanseth from all sin. Wash in this blood, and ye shall be clean. And what
is it to wash in this blood? It is to believe in Christ Jesus, to lay hold on the all sufficient
virtue of it, to trust our souls to it, as a sufficient ransom for all our sins, to spread
the covering of Christ’s righteousness over all our righteousness and unrighteousness, as having
both alike need to be hid from his holy eyes. Jesus Christ “came by water and by blood,” (1
John v. 6), by water to sanctify, and by blood to justify, by the power and cleansing virtue
of the Holy Ghost, to take away sin in the being of it, and by the virtue of his blood, to
take away sin in the guilt and condemnation of it.

Now, I conceive he presses a twofold exercise upon them in this washing, and both have relation
to the blood of Jesus Christ, to wit repentance and faith. If they be not all one, yet they
are in this point inseparably conjoined. Repentance waters and saps the roots of believing,
which otherwise would dry up; therefore, instead of outward forms and ceremonies of religion,
he presseth them to inward sorrow and contrition of heart for sin, that they might present
an acceptable sacrifice to God, “a contrite heart.” This is more pleasing than many specious
duties of men without, Psal. l. 7, &c. But when I press upon you repentance, do not conceive
that we would have it preparatory to faith, that ye should sit down and mourn for your sins
for a time, till your hearts be so far humbled, and then ye might come as prepared and fitted
to Jesus Christ. This is the mistake of many Christians, which keeps them from solid settling.
We find it ordinary, souls making scruples and objections against coming to Jesus Christ, because
of want of such preparations, of measures of humiliation and contrition, which they prescribe
to themselves, or do behold in others. And so they sit down and apply themselves to such a
work, apply their consciences to the law and curse; and they find, instead of softening, hardness,
instead of contrition of spirit, more dulness and security; at least they cannot get satisfaction
to themselves in that they seek, and thus they hang their head over their impenitent hearts,
and lament, not so much that repentance is not, as that they cannot find it in themselves.
Alas! there are many diseases in this one malady. If it were embowelled unto you, ye would
not believe that such a way were so contradictory to the gospel. For, first, ye who are so,
have this principle in your hearts, which is the foundation of it: I cannot come to Christ
so unclean, I must be a little washen ere I come, the most gross uncleanness and hardness of
my heart must be taken away, and so I shall be accepted. Alas, what derogation is this to the
blessed Saviour! What absurdity is it! I am too unclean to come to the fountain, I must be
a little purged before I come to this fountain that cleanseth from all sin. I pray you, why
was the fountain opened? Was it not for sin and uncleanness? And this thou sayest by interpretation,
if I were so and so humbled, then I might come, and be worthy to come; when the want of such
a measure debars thee as unworthy, doth not the having of it in thy estimation make thee worthy?
And so ye come with a present in your hand to Jesus Christ, with a price and reward to him
who gives freely. Again, thou deniest Christ to be the only fountain of all grace, and so it
is most dishonourable to him. If thou would have repentance before thou come to him, where
shalt thou have it? Wilt thou find it in thy heart, which is desperately wicked? Wilt thou
seek it of God, and not seek it in the mediator Jesus Christ? God out of a mediator will not
hear thee. In a word, there is both extreme sin and extreme folly in this way: great sin, because
it contradicts the tenor of the gospel, it dishonours the Lord Jesus, the exalted Prince, as
if he were not the fountain of all grace; it is contrary both to the freedom of his grace,
and to the fulness of it also. It is great folly, for thou leavest the living fountain, and
goest seeking water in a wilderness; thou leavest the garden where all herbs grow, and wanderest
abroad to the wild mountains; and because thou canst not find what thou seekest, thou sittest
down and weepest beside it. Repentance is in Christ, and no repentance so pleasing to God as
the mournings and relentings of a pardoned sinner; but thou seekest it far from him, yea, refusest
him for want of that which thou mayest have by choosing him. Therefore we declare this unto
you, that whatever ye be, whatever ye want, if ye think ye stand in need of Jesus Christ, embrace
him. If ye be exceeding vile in your own eyes, and cannot get repentance as ye would to cleanse
yourselves, here is the fountain opened, and ready to wash in. Yet this we must tell you, that
no sinner can believe but he that repents,(288) not because repentance is required as a preparation
to give a man a warrant and right to believe,—I know no ground of faith but our necessity,
and the Lord’s promise and command unto us,—but because no soul can truly fly into Jesus Christ
to escape sin’s guilt, but he that desires to be delivered from sin itself; and therefore the
most part of you fancy a faith which you have not, because there is no possibility that men
will come out of themselves, till they be pressed out by discovered sin and misery within.
Your woulds and wishes after Christ and salvation, that many of you have, are not the real
exercises of your soul’s flying unto him for salvation. If ye did indeed turn into Jesus Christ,
your hearts would turn the back upon sin, and these sins ye seek remission of. Now, all the
desire that many men have of Christ, is this,—I would fain have his salvation, if I might keep
my sin; I would gladly be delivered from the guilt of sin, if he would let me keep still the
sin. But will Christ make any such bargain?

If this blood only wash from sin, O how many lie in their sins, and wallow in their filthiness!
“There is a generation pure in their own eyes, and yet are not washed from their filthiness,”
Prov. xxx. 12. O that ye believed this! If ye be not now washed, eternity shall find you unclean,
and woe to the soul that enters eternity with all the pollution of its sins: can such a soul
enter into the high and holy place, the clean city? No, certainly; it must be without among
the dogs and swine, it must be kept in darkness for ever. It is, then, of great importance
that ye be washen from your filthiness. Now, I ask you, is it so or not? Are ye made clean
and washen from the guilt of your sins? Every one of you almost will say so and think so; and
yet says the scripture, “There is a generation pure in their own eyes, and yet are not washed.”
Is there a generation such? Is there any such? Oh! then, think it is possible you may be mistaken
in the opinion of your own cleanness. Do any conceive themselves pardoned, and yet are not
so? Think it is possible you may have deceived yourselves, especially since ye have never examined
it. But are there so many so, a whole generation,—the most part of men? Then, as you love your
souls, try, for it is certain that the most part of you must be deceived. Is there a generation
in the visible church not washen, and yet every one thinks himself clean? Then certainly the
most part are in a great delusion. Will ye then once examine whether or not ye be deluded with
them? It shall be your peace to know it, while it may be amended. But how comes it to pass,
that so many hearing of the gospel, and lying near this fountain, are not cleansed? I think
certainly, because they will not have a thorough cleansing, they get none at all. All men would
love Christ’s blood well to pardon sin, but who will accept of the water to sanctify them from
sin? But Christ came with both. Shall this blood be spent upon numbers of you, who have no
respect to it, but would still wallow in your filthiness? Would ye have God pardoning these
sins ye never throughly resolved to quit? But how is it that so many men are clean in their
own eyes, and yet not washed? I think indeed, the reason of it is, they make a kind of washing,
which they apprehend sufficient, and yet know not the true fountain. We find men taking much
soap and nitre, when convinced of sin, or charged with it, and thereupon soon absolving themselves.
If ye ask their grounds, they will tell you, they repent and are sorry for it; they purpose
to make amends, and they think amendment a good compensation for the past wrong. They will,
it may be, vow to drink no more for a year after they have been drunk; they will confess their
sin in public, and all this they do without having any thought of Jesus Christ, or the end
of his coming, and can absolve  themselves from such grounds, though in the mean time Christ
come not so much as in their mind; and therefore are they not really washed. All thy righteousness
is unclean before God, and thy repentances defile thee: and yet because of some such duties,
though deceivest thyself, and are clean in thine own eyes. These have some beauty in thy eyes,
and thou puttest them between thy filthiness and thy eye, and so conceivest that thou art clean.
I think a reason also, why many men are clean in their own eyes, and conceive that God hath
pardoned their sin, is because they have forgotten it. It is not recent in their memory, and
makes no present wound in their conscience: and therefore, they apprehend God such as themselves,—they
think he hath forgotten about it also. But oh! how terrible shall it be, when God brings to
remembrance, and sets our sins in order before us! Ye think God cares not for your sins, that
he forgives them before thee, and thou shalt know they are still marked before him.

Ye who have washen in this blood, ye may rejoice, for it shall make you clean every whit. Your
iniquities that so defiled you, shall not be found. O the precious virtue of that blood that
can purge away a soul’s spots! All the art of men and angels could not reach this. This redemption
and cleansing was precious, and would have ceased for ever; but this blood is the ransom, this
blood cleanseth, and so perfectly, that it shall not appear, not only to men’s eyes, but also
God’s piercing eye. Sinners, quit your own righteousness,—why defile ye yourselves more? When
your eyes are opened, ye will find it so. Here is washing; apply yourselves to this fountain;
and if ye do indeed so; if ye expect cleansing from Jesus Christ, I pray you return not to
the puddle. Ye are not washen from sin, to sin more, and defile yourselves more; if ye think
ye have liberty to do so, ye have no part in this blood.

Sermon XI. In itself it is filthiness, and contrary to God’s holiness; an abasing of the immortal
soul; a spot in the face of the Lord of the creatures, that hath far debased him under them
all. Though it be so unnatural to us, yet it is now in our fallen estate become, as it were,
natural, so that men agree with it, as if it were sunk and drunk into the very soul of man.
The other is guilt and desert of punishment and obligation to it. All men hate this, but they
cannot hold it off. They eat the tree and fruit of death, they must eat death also: they must
have the wages of sin, who have wrought for it. Now, the gospel hath found a remedy for lost
man in Jesus Christ; he comes in the gospel with a twofold blessing, a twofold virtue, a pardoning
virtue and a sanctifying virtue, “water and blood,” 1 John v. 6. He comes to forgive sin, and
to subdue sin; to remove the guilt of it, and then the self(289) of it. God’s appointment had
inseparably joined them; and Christ came not to dissolve the law, but to establish it. If he
had taken away the punishment, and left the sin in its being, he had weakened the law and the
prophets. That conjunction of sin and wrath, which is both by divine appointment, and suitable
also unto their own natures, must stand, that divine justice may be entire; and therefore,
he that comes to redeem us from the curse of the law, hath also this commission to redeem from
sin and all transgressions of the law, Rom. xi. 26, and Gal. iii. 13. He that turns away the
wrath of God from men, turns also ungodliness from them which provoked his wrath; and so he
is a complete redeemer, and a complete redeemer he had not been otherwise. If he had removed
wrath only, and left us under the bondage of sin, it had not been half redemption; “he that
commits sin, is the servant of sin.” But this is perfect freedom and liberty, to be made free
from sin, for it was sin that subjected us to wrath, and so was the first tyrant and the greatest.
The gospel then comes with a joyful sound unto you, but many of you mistake it, and apprehend
it to be a doctrine of liberty and peace, and that unto sin; but if it were so, it were no
joyful sound. If there were proclaimed a liberty to all men to do as they list, no punishment,
no wrath to be feared, I would think that doctrine no glad news, it were but the perpetuating
of the bondage of a reasonable soul. But this is glad news,—a delivery and freedom proclaimed
in the gospel. From what? Not unto sin, but from sin; and this is to be free indeed. We owe
more to Jesus Christ for this, than for redemption from wrath, because sin is a greater evil
than wrath; yea, wrath were not so, if sin were not. Therefore he exhorts to wash, and wash
so that they may make clean.  Take Jesus Christ for justification and sanctification,—employ
both the water and the blood that he hath come with.   But because all men pretend a willingness
to have Christ their Saviour, and their sins pardoned through his blood, who, notwithstanding,
hate to be reformed, and would seek no more of Christ: therefore, he branches out that part
of the exhortation in several particulars. All men have a general liking of remission of sins,
but renouncing of it is to many a hard doctrine. They would be glad that God put their evils
out of his sight, by passing them by, and forgetting them; but they will not be at the pains
of putting away their evils from his sight; and therefore, the gospel which comprehends these
two united, is not really received by many, who pretend to be followers of it. This is his
command, that ye believe. Some pretend to obey this, and yet have no regard of that other part
of his will, even their sanctification; and therefore their faith is dead, it is a fancy. If
ye did indeed believe and receive Christ for pardon of sin, it were not possible but your souls
would be engaged and constrained to endeavour to walk in all well-pleasing. But it is an evident
token of one that is not washed from his sin, and believes not in Christ, if he conceive within
his heart a greater latitude and liberty to walk after the flesh, and be emboldened to continue
in sin, because of his grace and mercy; and yet such are the most part of you. Upon what ground
do you delay repentance? Upon what presumption do ye continue in your sins, and put over the
serious study of holiness, till a more fit time? Is it not from an apprehension of the grace
and mercy of God, that ye think ye may return any time and be accepted, and so ye may in the
meantime take as much pleasure in sin as you can, seeing ye may get leave also for God’s mercy?
I pray you consider, that you have never apprehended God’s mercy aright, ye are yet in your
sins, and certainly as yet are not washed from them.

“Put away the evil,” &c.  When the Spirit convinces a soul, he convinces a man not only of
evil doings but of the evil of his doings; not only of sin, but of the sinfulness of sin; and
not only of those actions which are in themselves sinful, but also of the iniquity of holy
things. I think no man will come to wash in Christ’s blood, till this be discovered. If he
see much wickedness, many evil doings, yet he will labour to wash away these by his own tears,
and repentance, and well-doing. As long as he hath any good actions, as prayers, fasting, and
such like, he will cover his evil doings by them; he will spread the skirts of such righteousness
over his uncleanness; and when he hath hid it from his own eyes, he apprehends that he hath
hid it from God’s also. He will wash his bloody hands with many prayers, and thinks they may
be clean enough. We see blasphemers of God’s name use to join a prayer for forgiveness with
their oath and curse, and they never trouble themselves more. O what mocking of God is this!
Now, as long as it is thus, there is no employment for the Son of God’s blood; they can do
their own turn. Men will not come to Christ, because it is the best way, if they see any else
beside. None will come till they see it is the only way; none can wash in Christ, except they
wash all. If ye have any thing that needs not washing, his blood is not for you; his righteousness
is not known, when ye establish all, or a part of your own. I fear the most part of you have
no employment for Christ; ye have extreme need of him, but ye know it not, for there are many
things which ye will not number among your sins,—your prayers, your hearing, reading, singing,
public and private worship, giving alms, &c.  How many of you were never convinced of any sin
in these! Do ye not conceive God is well-pleased with you for them? Your conscience hath convinced
you, it may he, of gross sins, as drunkenness, filthiness, swearing, &c.  But ye are not convinced
for your well doing, ye find not a necessity of a Mediator for these.  I think many of you
never confessed any such thing, except in a general notion.  Alas, how ignorant are men of
themselves!  We are unclean, how can any thing we do cleanse us?  Are not we unclean, and do
not our hands touch our own works?  Shall not then our own uncleanness defile our good actions,
more than they can cleanse us? Hag. ii. 13.  The ignorance of this makes men go about to build
up their old ruined righteousness, and still seek something in themselves, to make up wants
in themselves. Always, when the light of God hath discovered you to yourselves, so that ye
can turn your eye nowhere, but uncleanness fills it, though your conversation be blameless
in the world, so as men can challenge nothing yet ye have found within and without nothing,
but matter of mourning, I say, this is an evidence that the Spirit hath sinned and enlightened
thy darkness.  Now, when thou hast fled unto Jesus Christ for a covering to thy righteousness,
as well as unrighteousness, it remains that thou now put away the evil of thy doings,—put not
away thy doings, but the evil of them.  We challenge your prayers, services, and public duties,
even as the prophet did we declare unto you that God is as ill pleased with them, as your drunkenness,
whoring, intemperance, &c.  The most part of you are no more acceptable when ye come to the
church, than when ye go to the tavern,—your praying and cursing is almost all one.  What shall
we do then, say ye?  Shalt we pray no more, and hear no more? No, say I, put not away your
prayers and ordinances, but put away the evil of them from before his sight. Rather multiply
your doings, but destroy the evil and iniquity of your doings.  And there is one evil or two
above all, that makes them hateful to him:  ye trust too much in them.  Here is the iniquity,
the idol of jealousy set up:  ye make your doings your righteousness, and in that notion they
are abomination.  There is nothing makes your worship of God so hateful as this, ye think so
much of it, and justify yourself by it, and then God knows what it is that ye so magnify, and
make the ground of your claim to salvation.  It is even an empty ceremony, a shadow without
substance, a body without a soul.  You speak and look and hear, you exercise some outward senses
but no inward affection, and what should that be to him, who is a Spirit?

They did not observe the iniquity of their holy things, and therefore are they marked by him—they
are in his sight. They did not see so many faults in their prayers and services, they wondered
why God did chide them so much, but God marks what we miss, he remembers when we forget.  We
cover ourselves with a wall of external duties, and think to hide all the rottenness of our
hearts, but it will not be hid from him, before whom hell hath no covering.  All hearts are
open and naked before him.  Your secret sins are in the light of his countenance. Men hear
you pray, see you present at worship, they know no more, at least they see no more, nay, but
the formality of thy worship, the wanderings of thy mind are in his sight. And, O how excellent
a rule of walking were this, to do all in his sight and presence!  O that ye were persuaded
in your hearts of his all seeing, all searching eye, and all knowing mind!  Would ye not be
more solicitous and anxious anent the frame of your hearts, than the liberty of your speech
or external gesture? O how would men retire within themselves, to fashion their spirits before
this all searching and all knowing Spirit! If ye do not observe the evils of your hearts and
ways, they are in his sight, and this will spoil all acceptance of the good of them.  If ye
observe the evils of your well doing, and bring these also to the fountain to wash them, and
be about this earnest endeavour of perfecting holiness, of perfecting well doings in the power
and fear of God, then certainly he will not set your sins in the light of his countenance,
the good of your way shall come before him, and the evil of it Christ shall take away.

“Cease to do evil,” &c.  These are the two legs a Christian walks on, if he want any of them,
he is lame and cannot go equally,—ceasing from evil, and doing good, nay, they are so united,
that the one cannot subsist without the other.  If a man do not cease from evil and his former
lusts, he cannot do well, or perfect holiness. There are many different dispositions and conditions
of men, there are generally one of two.  Some have a kind of abstinence from many gross sins
and are called civil honest men,—they can abide an inquest and censure of all their neighbours,
they can say no ill of them. But alas, there is as little good to be said; he drinks not, swears
not, whores not, steals not. Nay, but what doth he well? Alas, the world cannot tell what he
doth, for he prays not in secret, nor in his family,—he is void of some offences towards men,
but there are many duties called to, towards both God and men, he is a stranger to. He oppresses
not the poor, nay, but he is not charitable either to give to them, he defrauds no man, but
whom helps he by his means? Again, there are others, they will boast of some things done, they
pray, they keep the church well, they do many good turns, and yet for all that, they do not
cease to do evil. They were drunkards, so they are, they can swear for all their prayers, are
given to contention, to lying, to filthiness, &c.  Now, I say, neither of these religions is
pure and undefiled. Religion is a thorough and entire change, it is like a new creation, that
must destroy the first subject, to get place for that which is to come. It is a putting off
old garments, to put on new, the putting off an old form and engraven image, to make place
for a new engraving. Men do not put a seal above a seal, but deface the old, and so put on
the new, men do not put new clothes upon the old, but put the old off, and so they have place
for the new. Religion must have a naked man. Godliness is a new suit, that will not go on upon
so many lusts, no, no, it is more meet and more conformed unto the inwards of the soul than
so. The cold must go out as the heat comes in. Many men do not change their garments, but mend
them, put some new pieces unto them. They retain their old lusts, their heart idols, and they
will add unto these a patch of some external obedience, but alas, is this godliness? Hypocrisy
will be content of a mixture,—sin is the harlot, whose heart could endure to see the child
parted. It can give God a part, to get leave to brook the most part; sin will give God liberty
to take some of the outward man, if it keep the heart and soul. But God will not reckon on
these terms, he will have all the man or nothing, for he is the righteous owner.  True godliness
cannot mix so, but false and counterfeit may do it well. Other men, again, possibly unclothe
themselves of some practices, but they put on new clothing, they reform some passages for fear
of censure, or shame, or such like. They are found, it may be, blameless, either because so
educated, or their disposition is against particular gross sins, but they are not clothed upon
with holiness and well doing, and so they are but naked and bare in God’s sight, not beautiful.
They have swept their house, and some devil put out or kept out, but because the good Spirit
enters not, ordinarily seven worse enter again into such men.

There is a great moment(290) of persuasion in this order of the exhortation, “Wash you,” and
then, “put away the evil of your doings,” and “cease to do evil.” Do not continue in your former
customs. It is strange, how contrary our hearts are to God, we use to turn grace unto wantonness,
we use to take more liberty to sin, when we conceive we are pardoned. But I do not know any
more strong and constraining persuasion to forsake sin, than the consideration of the forgiving
of it might yield. O what an inducement and grand argument to renouncing of evils, is the consideration
of the remission of them! This is even that ye are now called unto, who have fled to Jesus
to escape wrath what should ye be taken up with, in all the world but this,—to live to him
henceforth, who died for us,—to forsake our own old way, and that from the constraining principle
of love to him, 2 Cor. v. 14, 15. O that ye would enforce your own hearts with such a thought,
when there are any solicitations to sin, to former lusts! Should I, that am dead to sin, live
any longer therein? Rom. vi. 2.  Should I who am washed from such pollutions, return again
to the pollutions of the world? Should I again defile myself, who am cleansed by so precious
blood, and forget him that washed me? Should I return with the dog to the vomit, and with the
sow to the puddle? God forbid I pray you consider. If you be Christians indeed, give a proof
of it.  What hath Jesus Christ done for you? He hath given himself, his own precious blood,
a ransom for us, will ye not give up yourselves to him? Will not ye give him your sins and
lusts, which are not yourself, but enemies to yourself? Will not ye put away these ills, that
he came into this world to destroy? Art thou a Christian, and are there yet so many sins, and
works of the devil reigning in thee, and set up in God’s sight?

What an inconsistency is this! If thou be his follower, thou must put these away. Give them
a bill of divorcement, never to turn again. Many a man parts with his sin, because it leaves
him, he puts it not away, temptation goes, and occasion goes away, but the root of it abides
within him. Many men have particular jars with their corruptions, but they reconcile again,
as differences between married persons. They do not arise(291) to hate their sin in its sinful
nature. But if thou hate it, then put it away. And who would not hate that which Christ so
hated, that he came to destroy it? 1 John iii. 5. What a great indignity must it be to the
gospel, to make that the ground of living in sin, which is pressed, in it, as the grand persuasion
to forsake it? Seeing we are washed from the guilt of it, O let us not love to keep the stain
and filth of it! Why are we washen? Was it not Christ’s great intendment and purpose, to purify
to himself a holy people? We are washen from the guilt of our sins, and is it to defile again?
Is it not rather to keep ourselves henceforth clean, that we may be presented holy and unblameable
in his sight,—that we may seek to be as like heaven as may be. But who ceases to do these evils,
that he says are pardoned? Who puts away the evil of these doings, the guilt whereof he thinks
God hath put away? Could ye find in your hearts to entertain those evils so familiarly, to
pour out your souls unto them, if that peace of God were indeed spoken unto you? Would not
the reflex of his love prove more constraining on your hearts? Were it possible, that if ye
did indeed consider, that your lusts cost Christ a dear price to shed his blood, that your
pleasures made his soul heavy to death, and that he hath laid down his life to ransom you from
hell, were it possible, I say, that ye would live still in these lusts, and choose these pleasures
of sin, which were so bitter to our Lord Jesus? I beseech you be not deceived,—if ye love the
puddle still, that ye cannot live out of it, do not say that ye are washed. Ye may have washen
yourselves with soap and nitre, but the blood of Christ hath not cleansed; for, if that blood
sprinkled your conscience once, to give you an answer to all challenges, it could not but send
forth streams to purify the heart, and so the whole man. The blood and water might be joined,
the justifying Saviour, and the sanctifying Spirit, for both these are in this gospel washing,
1 Cor vi. 11, 1 John v. 6. The very purpose of forgiveness is not to lay a foundation for more
sin, but that men may sin no more, but break off their sins. It is indeed impossible for a
man to amend his ways, till he be pardoned, for his sin stands betwixt him and God. God is
a consuming fire—the guilt of it hinders all meeting of the soul with God, at least all influence
from him. But when an open door is made in Christ, that men may come and treat with God, notwithstanding
of rebellions, and have the curse relaxed, O how may he go about his duty comfortably! Am I
escaped from hell, why should I any more walk in the way to it? And now he hath the Spirit
given for the asking. There are some cessations from sin, that are not real forsakings of it,
and ceasings from it. You know men will abstain from eating for a season, that they may be
made ripe for it at another time. Some do not cease from sin, but delay it only, they put it
not away, but put it off only for another time, till a fitter occasion and opportunity. And
this is so far from ceasing from it, that it is rather a deliberate choice of it, and election
of conveniency for it. There may be some pure and simple ceasings from sin, mere abstinence,
or rather mere absence of sin for a season, that is not ceasing from doing evil. The Christian’s
ceasing hath much action in it. It is such a ceasing from doing evil, that it is a putting
away of evil, it hath a soul and spirit joined in that cessation. Sin requires violence to
put it out where it hath haunted,—it is an intruding guest, and a usurping guest. It comes
in first as a supplicant and beggar, prays for a little lodging for a night, and promises to
be gone. The temptation speaks but for a little time, even the present time, for a little one,—it
seeks but little at first, lest it be denied, but if once it be received into the soul, it
presently becomes master, and can command its own time, and its abode. Then ye will not so
easily put it out as ye could hold it out, for it is now joined with that wicked, desperate
party within you, the heart, and these united forces are too strong for you. According as a
lust is one with a man’s heart, or hath nearer connection with his heart and soul, it is the
worse to put away: for, will ye drive a man from himself? It is the cutting off a right hand,
or plucking out of a right eye. To make a man cease from such evils, requires that a stronger
power be within him than is in the world.  Men may cease for a time, for want of occasions
or temptations to sin, when there is no active principle in them, restraining or keeping their
souls from such sins as appear after, when no sooner is occasion offered, but they run as the
horse to his course, or the stone falleth downward,—they receive fire as easily as dry stubble.
That is not Christian ceasing, which is that which the soul argues itself into, from grounds
of the gospel. Should I, who am dead to sin, live any longer therein? This is a principle of
cessation, and this is true liberty,—when the soul can abstain from present temptations upon
such grounds and persuasions of the gospel, then it is really above itself and above the world,
then hath it that true victory.  Many men cease only from sin, because sin ceases from them,
they have not left it, but it hath left them.  The old man thinks himself a changed man, because
he wallows not in the lusts of the flesh, as in his youth.  But, alas!  no thanks to him for
that, he hath not ceased from his lusts. But temptations to him, or power and ability in him
to follow them hath ceased,—there is no change in his spirit within, for he can talk of his
former sins with pleasure, he continues in other evils as bad, but more suitable to his age.
In a word, he is so inwardly, that if he were in his body, and occasions offering as before,
he would be just the same. Some, again, cease from some evils, from some principles, but, alas!
they are no Christian principles.  What restrains the multitude of civilians from gross scandals?
Is it any thing but affectation of a good name and report in the world? Is it not fear of reproach
or censure?  Is it not because possibly they have no particular inclination to such evils?
And yet there are many other evils of the heart as evil though more subtile, that they please
themselves in, as pride, covetousness, malice, envy, ambition, &c.  What shall all your abstinence
be accounted of, when it is not love to Jesus Christ, or hatred of sin, that principles it?
It is not the outward abstinence that will commend you such it is, as the principles of it
are.  And these only are the true Christian principles of mortification,—love of Jesus Christ,
which constrains men to live no more to themselves, but to be new creatures, 2 Cor. v. 14,
15; and hatred of sin in its nature as sin a Christian should have a mortal hatred of it, as
his mortal enemy. It is not Christianity to abstain from some fleshly lusts, if ye consider
them not as your soul’s enemies, 1 Peter ii. 11.  “Ye that love the Lord hate evil,” Psal.
xcvii. 10.  These are chained together.  David’s hatred was a soul-hatred, an abhorrency, Psal.
cxix. 163, “I hate and abhor lying.” It is like the natural antipathies that are among creatures,
the soul hates not only the person of it, but the nature of it also.  Men often hate sin, only
as it is circumstantiate, but Christian hatred is a hatred of the nature, like the deadly feuds,
which are enmities against the kind and name. “I will put enmity between thy seed,” &c.  It
is a “perfect hatred,” Psal. cxxxix. 22.  And so it cannot endure any sin, because all is contrary
to God’s holiness and offensive to his Spirit. I would think it easier to forsake all evil,
and cease from doing any evil, I mean, presumptuously, with a willing mind and endeavour, than
indeed to forsake one, for as long as ye entertain so many lusts like it, they shall make way
for it.  It were easier to keep the whole commandments in an evangelical sense, than indeed
to keep any one, for all of them help another, and subsist they cannot one without another,
so that ye take a foolish course, who go about particular reformations. Ye scandalous sinners
profess that ye will amend the particular fault ye are guilty of, and, in the mean time, you
take no heed to your souls and lives, therefore it shall be either in vain, or not acceptable.
How pleasant a life would Christians have, if they would indeed be persuaded to be altogether
Christians!  The halving of it neither pleaseth God nor delights you, it keeps you but in continual
torment between God and Baal. Your own lusts usurp over you, and that of Christ in you challenges
the supremacy, so ye are as men under two masters, each striving for the place, and were it
not better to be under one settled government?  If there be any tenderness of God in your hearts,
or light in your consciences, they cannot but testify against your lusts, these strange lords.
Your lusts, again, they drive you on against your conscience; thus ye are divided and tormented
betwixt two,—your own conscience and affections. You have thus the pain of religion, and know
not the true pleasure of it. You are marred in the pleasures of sin, conscience and the love
of God is a worm to eat that gourd. It is gall and vinegar mixed in with them. Were it not
more wisdom to be either one thing or another? If ye will have the pleasures of sin for a season,
take them wholly, and renounce God, and see if your heart can endure that. If your heart cannot
condescend to that, I pray you renounce them wholly, and ye shall find more exquisite and sure
pleasures in godliness, at his right hand. O what a noble entertainment hath the soul in God;
the peace and joy of the Holy Ghost is a kingdom indeed!

Sermon XII.

    Isaiah xxvi. 3.—“Thou shall keep him in perfect peace, whose mind
    is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee.”

All men love to have privileges above others. Every one is upon the design and search after
some well-being, since Adam lost that which was true happiness. We all agree upon the general
notion of it, but presently men divide in the following of particulars. Here all men are united
in seeking after some good; something to satisfy their souls, and satiate their desires. Nay,
but they scatter presently in the prosecution of it, because, according to every man’s fancy
and corrupt humour, they attribute that good unto diverse things; and when they meet with disappointment,
they change their opinion of that, but are made no wiser, for they turn from one to another
of that same kind, in which their imagination hath supposed blessedness to be; and therefore
they will return to that which they first loathed and rejected. Is there, then, no such thing
in the world as blessedness? Is it not to be found among men? Are all men’s insatiable desires
in vain? Is a creature made up and composed of desires, to keep it in continual torment and
vexation of spirit? No certainly, it is, and it is found by some. All the world strives about
it, but the man only who trusts and believes in God, he it is, who carries it away from them,—who
hath this privilege beyond the world. And why do so many miss it? Because they do not see or
suspect that it is blessedness indeed which he enjoys; but, on the contrary, their corrupted
imaginations represent godliness, and a godly man’s self-indigency and dependence on God, as
the greatest misery and shame. The godly man hides not his blessedness from the world; no,
he proclaims it when he hath found it,—he would that all enjoyed it with him. And if there
were no more to declare that it doth not consist in worldly things, this might suffice—they
are not communicable to many, without the prejudice and loss of every one. But none will believe
his report of his own estate.

If ye would consider, here is that which men toil for,—compass sea and land for; here it is;
“near thee in thy mouth.” It is not in heaven, that thou shouldst say, How shall I ascend to
it? It is not in hell below, that thou shouldst say, Who shall descend? It is not in the ends
of the earth. No. It is “near thee, in thy mouth.” It is not beyond the sea, but it is “near
thee in thy mouth, even the word of faith,” which Christ preached, Rom. x. 6-8. And what says
that word? Believe with thy heart, and thou shall be saved; trust in God, and depend on him,
and ye shall have peace, and that perfect peace; and this peace shall be kept by God himself.
“Blessed, then, is the man that trusts in the Lord,” Psal. xl. 4. Ye make a long journey in
vain; ye spend your labour and money in vain; all the pains might be saved: it is not where
ye seek it. Ye travel about many creatures; ye go to many doors, and inquire for happiness
and peace, but ye go too far off; ye need not search so many coasts, it is nearer hand, in
this word of the gospel—the joyful sound; it is this that proclaims peace. Peace is a comprehensive
word, especially in scripture. It was the Jews’ salutation, “Peace be to you;” meaning happiness
and all good things; it is Christ’s salutation, “Grace and peace.” Grace is holiness, peace
is happiness, and these are either one, or inseparably conjoined as one. This was the angels’
song, “Glory to God, peace on earth,” Luke ii. 14. Blessedness was restored, or brought near
to be restored, to miserable man, by Jesus Christ; and upon the apprehension of this, angels
sing. It was this Christ came into the world with; and when he went away, he left this legacy
to his children, “My peace I leave you,” John xiv. 27. We lost happiness, and all men are on
a vain pursuit of it since, but it is found, and found by one of our kin. Our Lord Jesus, our
elder brother, he hath found it, or made it, and brought it near us in the gospel for the receiving;
and whoso receives him by faith, and trusts in him, receives that privilege, that peace. He
endured much trouble to gain our peace; he behoved to undergo misery to purchase our blessedness,
and so it is his own, and whoso receives him receives it also.

The news of such a peace might be seasonable in the time of war and trouble, if we apprehended
our need of it. It is not a peace from war and trouble, but a peace in war and trouble. “My
peace I leave with you,” and “in the world ye shall have trouble,” John xiv. 27, and xvi. at
the end. What a blessed message is it, that there is a peace, and a perfect peace attainable
in the midst of wars, confusions, and calamities of the times, public and personal; a perfect
peace, a complete peace, even complete without the accession of outward and worldly peace,
that needs it not; nay, appears most perfect and entire in itself, when it is stripped naked
of them all. Behold what a privilege the gospel offers unto you! ye need not be made miserable,
but(292) if you please. This is more than all the world can afford you. There is no man can
promise to himself immunity from public or personal dangers, from many griefs and disappointments;
but the gospel bids you reckon up all your troubles and miseries that you can meet with in
the world; and yet in such a case, if ye hearken to wisdom, there is a peace that will make
you forget that trouble. “Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace,”
Prov. iii. 17. I will undertake to make thee blessed, says wisdom, the Father’s wisdom. When
all the world hath given thee over for miserable; when thou hast spent thy substance on the
physicians, and in vain, come to me, I can heal that desperate disease by a word. “I create
peace,” when natural causes have given it over; I create it of nothing; I will keep you “in
perfect peace.”

You have then here, three things of special concernment in these times; and all times, a blessedness,
a perfect peace attainable, the way of it, and the fountain of it. The fountain of it, the
preserver of it, is God himself; the way to attain it, is “trusting in God, and staying on
him.” This sweetness of peace is in God the tree of life. Faith puts to its hand, and plucks
the fruit of the tree; hope and dependence on God is a kind of tasting of that fruit and eating
of it; and then followeth this perfect peace, as the delightful relish and sweetness that the
soul finds in God, upon tasting how gracious he is. God himself is the life of our souls, the
fountain of living-waters, the life and light of men. Faith and trusting in God, draws out
of this fountain,—out of this deep well of salvation; and staying on God, drinks of it, till
the soul be refreshed with peace and tranquillity, such as passeth natural understanding. Christ
Jesus is the tree of life, that grows in the garden of God; trusting in him by faith implants
a soul in him,—roots a soul in him, by virtue of which union, it springs up and grows into
a living branch; by staying and depending upon him, we live by him, and hence springs this
blessed and sweet fruit of peace of soul and conscience, which grows upon the confidence of
the soul placed in God, as the stalk by which it is united to the tree. Trusting and staying
upon God is the soul’s casting its anchor upon him in the midst of the waves and storms of
sin, wrath, and trouble. The poor beaten sinner casts an anchor within the vail, on that sure
ground of immutable promises in Jesus Christ; and then it rests and quiets itself at that anchor,
enjoys peace in the midst of the storm,—there is a great calm, it is not moved, or not greatly
moved, as if it were a fair day. David flieth unto God as his refuge, anchors upon the name
of the Lord, Psal. lxii. 1, 2; and so he enjoys a perfect calm and tranquillity. “I shall not
be moved,” because he is united to the rock, he is tied to the firm foundation, Jesus Christ,
and no storm can dissolve this union, not because of the strength of that rope of faith, it
is but a weak cord, if omnipotency did not compass it about also, and so we “are kept by the
power of God, through faith unto salvation.” The poor wearied traveller, the pilgrim, sits
down under the shadow of a rock, and this peace is his rest under it. Faith lays him down,
and peace is his rest and sleep. Faith in Jesus Christ is a motion towards him, as the soul’s
proper place and centre, and therefore it is called a coming to him,—flying to him as the city
of refuge. It is the soul’s flight out of itself, and misery and sin within, to apprehend mercy
and grace, and happiness in Christ. Now, hope is the conjunction or union of the soul with
him,—the soul then staying and resting on him, as in its proper place, and so it enjoys perfect
peace and rest in its place, so that if ye remove it thence, then ye offer violence to it.

These two things are of greatest importance to you to know, what this perfect peace is, and
what is the way to attain it. The one is the privilege and dignity, the other is the duty of
a Christian, and these two make him up what he is.

I would think that man perfectly blessed, who is at peace with two things,—God and himself.
If a man be at peace with creatures without him, and be at peace with himself, but have war
within his own mind, that man’s peace is no peace, let be perfect peace. A man’s greatest enemy
is within his own house. And within indeed, when it is in his bosom and soul, when a man’s
conscience is against him, it is worse than a world beside. Conscientia mille testes,(293)
so I say, it is mille hostes. It is “a thousand witnesses,” and “a thousand enemies.” It were
better to endure condemnation of any judge, of many judges in the world, than to sustain the
conviction of a man’s own conscience, when it accuseth, who shall excuse? John viii. 9, Rom.
ii. 15. “A merry spirit,” saith Solomon, “is a continual feast,” Prov. xv. 15. And what must
a heart be, which hath such a gnawing worm within it, as an accusing conscience, to eat it
out? This is the worm of hell that dies not out, which makes hell hell indeed. This indeed
will be a painful consumption, “A broken spirit drieth up the bones,” it will eat up the marrow
of the spirit and body, Prov. xvii. 22. What infirmity is there which a man cannot bear? Poverty,
famine, war, pestilence, sickness, name what you will, but a wounded spirit who can bear? Prov.
xviii. 14. And there is reason for it, for there is none to bear it, a sound and whole spirit
can sustain infirmities, but when that is wounded, which should bear all the rest, what is
behind to bear it? It is a burden to itself. If a man have trouble and war in this world, yet
there is often escaping from it, a man may fly from his enemy, but when thy enemy is within
thee, whither shalt thou fly? Thou canst not go from thyself, thou carriest about thee thy
enemy, thy tormentor.

But suppose a man were at peace within himself, and cried peace, peace, to himself, yet if
he be not at peace with God, shall his peace be called peace? Shall it not rather be named
supine security? If a man be at variance with himself, and his soul disquieted within, there
is more fear than danger if he be at peace with God. It is but a false alarm, that shall end
well, but if he have peace in his own bosom, and yet no agreement with God, then destructions
are certainly coming, his dream of peace will have a terrible wakening. A man may sleep soundly,
and his enemies round about him, because he knoweth not of it, but he is in a worse estate
than he that is in great fear, and his enemies either none, or far distant. The one hath present
danger, and no fear, the other present fear, and no danger, and which of these think ye best?
Sudden destruction awakes the one from sleep, Ezek. vii. 25. Their fear and destruction come
both at once, when it is now in vain to fear, because it is past hope, Prov. i. 27. Therefore
the Lord swears, that “there is no peace to the wicked,” Isa. xlviii. 22. What! Do not they
often cry peace to themselves, and put the evil day far off? No men are so without bands in
life and death as they, they have made agreement with hell and death, and their own consciences,
yet for all that, “thus saith the Lord, there is no peace to the wicked.” If God be against
us, what is the matter who be with us, for he can make a man’s friends his enemies, and he
can make a man’s enemies to be at peace with him: He makes peace and creates trouble, Isa.
xlv. 7. Men can but destroy the body, but he can destroy both body and soul for ever. O what
a potent and everlasting enemy is he! There is no escaping from his all-seeing eye and powerful
hand, Psal. cxxxix. 7, 8. A man may fly from men, but whither shall he fly from His presence?
To heaven?—He is there. To hell?—He is there. The darkness of the night hath been a covering
under which many have escaped, and been saved in armies, but darkness is no covering to him,
it is all one with light. He is near hand every one of us. The conscience is within us, but
he is within the conscience, and how much God is above the creature, so great and dreadful
a party is he above any enemy imaginable. Therefore I conclude, that that man only hath perfect
peace, who is at peace with God, and with his own conscience. If a man be at peace with God,
and not with himself, he wants but a moment’s time of perfect peace, for, ere it be long, the
God of it will speak peace unto him. But if he be at peace with God and himself, I know not
what he wants of the perfect peace, of the “peace, peace,” for it is a man’s mind that makes
peace or war, it is not outward things, but in the midst of peace he may be in trouble, and
in the midst of trouble in peace, according as he hath satisfaction and contentment in his
own breast, for what is all the grace of a Christian? It is godliness with contentment, it
is not godliness and riches, godliness and honour, or pleasure, godliness and outward peace.
No, no, contentment compenseth all these, and hath in it eminently all the gain and advantage
of these. A man in honour, a rich man, having no contentment in it, is really as poor, as ignominious,
as the poor and despised man. If contentment then be without these things, certainly they cannot
be missed, for where contentment is not with them, it only is missed, and they not considered.
Contentment is all the gain that men seek in riches, and honour, and pleasure, if a godly man
have that same without them, he then hath all the gain and advantage, and wants nothing, but
some trouble that ordinarily attends them. Outward peace cannot add to inward peace, and so
the want of it cannot diminish.

We must begin at the original, if we would know rightly this peace that passeth knowledge.
The fountain-head is peace with God, a stream of this is peace of conscience, and peace with
the creatures. There is a peace of friendship, when persons were never enemies, and there is
a peace of reconciliation, when parties at variance are made one. Innocent Adam had peace once
with God as a friend,—angels continue so to this day, but now there is no such peace between
men and God, for all are become enemies to God, and aliens from the commonwealth of Israel,
that peace was broken by rebellion against God his maker, and all the posterity are born with
the same enmity against God. On our part are hearts desperately wicked, whose imagination is
only evil continually. On God’s part is holy and spotless justice, that is of purer eyes than
to behold iniquity, and therefore must destroy it or the sinner. On our part are so many rebellions,—Adam’s
actual transgression, and all our own sins and breaches of the holy law, as so many breaches
of peace. On God’s part are so many curses answerable to the breaches of the law: “cursed is
every one that abideth not in every thing,” &c. This curse is even the proclamation of men
to be traitors, and an intimation of the righteous judgment which will come upon them. Adam
was in a covenant of peace with God,—“Do, and thou shalt live, if not, thou shalt die.” Adam
brake this covenant, so the peace is dissolved, and God is no more obliged to give life, but
to execute the pain contained in the covenant, and in sign and token of this, look how Adam
fled from God’s presence, to hide himself when he heard his voice, it was a poor shift, for
whither should he go from his presence? But, alas! seeking more wisdom, he lost that he had,
seeking divine wisdom, he lost human. Now, there is no more making up this peace on such terms
again, we have no capacity to treat with God any more, but blessed be his Majesty, who hath
found out the way of agreement and reconciliation. O that ye were once persuaded of your enmity
against God! ye are not born friends, though ye be born within the visible church. How dreadful
a thing is it, to have the Most High and terrible God against you, to do to you according to
your deservings! Ye all know this, we are enemies to God by nature, I pray you, is it but a
name? Is it not worthy deep consideration? But who considereth this matter? If ye lose a friend,
ye will be troubled, and the more behoveful your friend was, the more troubled you will be.
If a great and potent nation proclaimed war against us, we cannot but be sensible of it, but
alas! who considereth the great breach that is between God and all men, occasioned by the first
man’s transgression and rebellion! It is one of the degrees of health, to know the disease,
and I may call it a degree of peace, a kind of preparation to peace, to know the enmity, and
not generally to know it, but to ponder it till the heart be affected with it, to call a council
of all the faculties and affections of the soul to consider the great imminent danger of man’s
commonwealth. What is it, I pray you, that is the greatest obstruction of men’s making peace
with God, that makes the breach irreparable, and the wound incurable? It is this, certainly,
no man apprehendeth it aright, we entertain good thoughts of our friendship with God, or that
it is easy to be reconciled. Who seeth such a wide breach between God and man, that all the
merits of angels and men could not make it up? Who seeth the price of redemption so precious,
as it must cease for ever, for all that men and angels can do? Is not every man offering God
satisfaction, either his tears, or sorrow, or amendment in time coming, or all of them? Do
not men undertake to pacify God with external ordinances, and think it may suffice for their
sins? Certainly ye are ignorant of the infinite separation between God and man, who imagine
a treaty with him yourselves, or that ever ye can come unto speaking terms, and therefore is
this war and enmity perpetual; therefore there is no peace, when ye cry, Peace, peace! When
ye have peace within you, and say that ye have peace with God, yet certainly, the Lord thy
God is against thee, and will not spare thee, Deut. xxix. 19. Many of you bless yourselves
in your own hearts, when ye hear the curse and threatening of the law, ye say, God forbid that
all that were true. Well, thus saith the Lord, All these curses that are written in this book
shall be upon thee, and the Lord shall separate thee unto evil, because ye take not with your
enmity, there can be no treaty, a mediator can have no employment from you.

How shall the breach of peace be made up? Since the first covenant cannot be made up again,
where shall the remedy be found? God is just and righteous, men are rebellious and sinful,
can these meet, and the one not be consumed? Will not God be a consuming fire, and men as stubble
before the Lord’s presence? Therefore, there must be a Mediator between them, a peace-maker,
to make of two one, to take up the difference. And this Mediator must be like both, and yet
neither wholly the one nor the other. He must therefore be God and man, that he may be a fit
day’s man betwixt God and man, and this is our Lord Jesus Christ. In his divinity he comes
near to God, in his humanity he comes near to man, in his person he is between both, and he
is fit to make peace, and therefore he is “a Prince of peace,” Isa. ix. 6. And that he may
be a Prince of peace, he must be both, “an everlasting Father” like God, and a young child
like unto man. God to prevail with God, and a man to engage for man, and therefore he is called
“our Peace,” Eph. ii. 14. Our Lord Jesus Christ enters into a covenant with the Father, wherein
he undertakes to bear our curse, and the chastisement of our peace. He is content to be dealt
with as the rebel, “Upon me, upon me be the iniquity,” and so there comes an interruption,
as it were, of that blessed peace he had with the Father. He is content that there should be
a covering of wrath spread over the Father’s love, that he should handle the Son as an enemy,
and therefore it is, that sinners are admitted as friends,—his obedience takes away our rebellion.
The cloud of the Lord’s displeasure pours down upon him, that it might be fair weather to us,
the armies of curses that were against us, encounter him, and he, by being overcome, overcometh,
by being slain by justice, Satan and sin, overcometh all those, and killeth the enmity on the
cross, making peace by his blood, Col. ii. 14, 15 , Eph. ii. 15. And it is this sacrifice that
hath pacified heaven,—the sweet smell of it hath gone above, and made peace in the high places.

Here, then, is the privilege of a believer,—to be at peace with God, to be one with him, and
this indeed is life eternal, to be united unto the fountain of life, in whose favour is life
and whose loving kindness is better than life. Is not this a blessed estate? Whatever a man
hath done against God is all forgiven and forgotten, it shall never come into remembrance.
Are not angels blessed who are friends with God? Such is the soul whose sins are pardoned through
Christ,—its sins are as if they never had been. The soul is not only escaped that terrible
wrath of God, but being at peace with God, all the goodness that is communicable to creatures,
it shall partake of, “that they may be one, as we are one, that they may be perfect in one,”
John xvii. This Christ prayed for, and this was the end of his death,—to make of two one. So,
then, the glory that Christ is partaker of with the Father, we must be partakers of with him,
and all this by virtue of that peace with God by him. O if ye knew what enmity with God is!
how would it endear and make precious peace with him! The one engageth all that is in God to
be against a man; the other engageth all that is in him to be for a man. And is not he then
a great one, whether he be a friend or an enemy, is he not the best friend and worst enemy,
who hath most power, yea, all power, to employ for whom he will, and against whom he will?
What a blessed change is it, to have God, of a consuming fire, made a sun, with healing and
consolation! that the righteous, holy, and just God, before whom no flesh can stand, should
accept so rebellious sinners, and dwell among them! He had not only power to destroy, but law
against us also. What a perfect peace is it, then, that the Judge becometh a merciful Father,
and the law of ordinances is cancelled, and that power employed to keep salvation to us, and
us to salvation! Ye who have made peace and atonement through Christ’s blood, rejoice in the
hope of the glory of God, there wants nothing to make you completely blessed, but the clear
and perfect sight and knowledge of your estate before God.

Now, when this peace, which is made up in heaven, is intimated unto the conscience, then all
the tempests and clouds of it evanish, and this is the peace of believing, which is the soul’s
resting and quieting itself upon the believing favour of God. There may be a great calm above,
good-will in God towards men, and yet great tempests in this lower region, no peace on earth.
There is a peace of conscience which is a disease of conscience, a benumbedness of conscience,
or a sleep of conscience, when men walk in the imagination of their own hearts, and flatter
themselves in their own eyes, will not trouble themselves with the apprehension of the wrath
of God. When souls will not suffer their sin, or the curse to enter in, this is that “no peace”
which the Lord speaks often of, it is but a dream, and when a man awaketh, alas! what a dreadful
sight meets he with first,—“sudden destruction!” Sin enters into the conscience, and the law,
the strength of sin, and so that peace endeth in an eternal disquietness. But what is the reason,
that notwithstanding of God’s justice and men’s sins, so many are not afraid of him, so many
pass the time without fear of wrath and hell? Is it not because they have taken hold of his
strength, and made peace with him? No, indeed, but because they know not the power of his anger,
to fear him according to his wrath. Who will spend one hour in the examination of his own ways,
in searching out sins, in counting his debt, till he find it past payment? No, men entertain
the thoughts of sin, and hell and wrath, as if it were coals in their bosom, they shake them
out, they like and love any diversion from them. Oh! ignorance maketh much peace, I would say
security, which is so much worse than fear, because it is so far from the remedy, that it knoweth
not the evil and danger. It is not the rising of the Sun of righteousness, shining into the
soul, that hath cleared them, but their perpetual darkness that blindeth them. I say, then,
in the name of Jesus Christ, that ye never knew the peace of God, who knew not war with God,
ye know not love, who have not known anger, but this is the soul’s true peace and tranquillity,
when it is once awakened to see its misery and danger—how many clouds overspread it, what tempests
blow; what waves of displeasure go over its head! But when that peace, which is made in the
high places, breaketh through the cloud with a voice, “Son, be of good comfort, thy sins be
forgiven thee!” when that voice of the Spirit is uttered, presently at its command the wind
and waves obey, the soul is calmed, as the sea after a storm, it is not only untroubled, but
it is peaceable upon solid grounds, because of the word which speaks peace in Christ. The peace
of the most of you is such as ye were born and educated withal. Is it not a created peace,
a spoken peace,—the fruit of the lips, and so no true peace? Ye had not your peace from the
word, but ye brought it to the word, ye have no peace after trouble, and so it is not the Lord’s
peace.

The Christian may have peace, in regard of his own salvation and eternal things, and in regard
of all things that befalleth in time; the first is, when the conscience is sprinkled with the
blood of Jesus Christ, and getteth a good answer to all the challenges and accusations of conscience,
and of the law and justice, 1 Pet. iii. 21; when the Spirit of God shines into the soul, with
a new light to discover these things that are freely given, 1 Cor. ii. 12. And this is the
sealing of the Spirit after believing, Eph. i. 13. When a soul hath put to its seal by believing
God’s word, and hath acknowledged God’s truth and faithfulness in his word, the Spirit sealeth
mutually the believer’s faith, both by more holiness and the knowledge of it; and how great
peace is this, when a soul can look upon all its iniquities when they compass about a man,
and outward trouble sharpeneth and setteth on edge inward challenges, and yet the soul will
not fear,—it hath answers to them all in Christ’s blood, Psalm xlix. 5. This is a greater word
than all the world can say. Many men’s fearlessness proceedeth from ignorance of sin, their
iniquities were never set in order before them; but if once they compassed them about, and
wrath, like a fiery wall, compass them about also, so that there were no escaping, O it would
be more terrible than all the armies of the world! Ye would account little of a kingdom, ye
would exchange it for such a word as David hath upon good grounds.

Now, I say again, the soul that hath thus committed itself to him as a faithful keeper, may
have peace in all estates and conditions; and this peace floweth from that other peace. There
is a peace which guards the heart and mind, Phil. iv. 6, 7, opposed to carefulness and anxiety;
and this Paul is exemplary for, “I have learned in every estate, therewith to be content, to
want and abound,” &c. ver. 11. The soul of a believer may be in an equal even tenor and disposition
in all conditions; it may possess itself in patience. Impatience and anxiety make a man not
his own man; he is not himself, he enjoys not himself; he is a burden to himself, and is his
own tormentor; but if souls were stayed upon God, certainly they would possess themselves,
dwell securely within their own breasts. We may find that the most part of men are exposed
to all the floods and waves of the times. They move inwardly, as things are troubled outwardly;
every thing addeth moment to their grief or joy; any dispensation casteth the balance, and
either weighs them down with discouragement, or lifteth them up with vanity and lightness of
mind; but the believer’s privilege is to be unmoved in the midst of all the tossings and confusions
of the times, Psal. cxxviii. 1, 2. Ye would be as mount Zion if ye trusted in God; no dispensation
would enter into the soul to cast the balance upon you; ye might stand upon your rock Jesus
Christ, and look about the estates, persons, affairs, and minds of men, as a troubled sea,
fleeting, tossed up and down, and ye stand and not be moved, or not greatly moved, Psal. lxii.
2. And this is to be wise indeed. If I would describe a wise man, I would say, he “is one man,”
beside him no man is one with himself, but various, inconstant, changeable. He is unwise who
is unlike himself, who changeth persons according to dispensations: wisdom is the stability
of thy times, and faith is wisdom. It establisheth as mount Zion, so as a man cometh out still
one,—in prosperity not exalted, in adversity not cast down, in every estate content; and this
is the man who is blessed indeed. This were wisdom,—to will the same thing, and nill(294) the
same thing. Semper idem velle, atque idem nolle.(295) I need not, says Seneca, add that exception,
that it be right which you desire, for no one thing can universally and always please, if it
be not good and right; so I say, he were both wise and happy, who had but one grief and one
joy. Should not a believer’s mind be calm and serene, seeing the true light hath shined; it
should be as the upper world, where no blasts, no storms or clouds are to eclipse the sun,
or cloud it. While our peace and tranquillity is borrowed from outward things, certainly it
must change; but a believer’s peace and tranquillity of mind, having its rise from above, from
the unchangeable word of the Lord, it needeth not to change according to the vicissitudes of
providence. He needeth not to care beforehand, because there is one who careth for him; and
what needeth both to care? He needeth not be disquieted or troubled after, because it shall
turn about to his good; all things shall do so, Rom. viii. 28. He needeth not be anxious about
future events, because he hath all his burden cast upon another by prayer and supplication.
What needeth he then take a needless burden? Prayer will do that which care pretends and cannot
do, and that without trouble. He needeth not be troubled when things are present, for he cannot
by his thought either add or diminish, take away or prevent. There is one good and necessary
thing that his heart is upon, and that cannot be taken from him; and therefore all things else
are indifferent, and of small concernment to him.

Now what wanteth such a man of perfect peace, who is reconciled to God, and at peace within
himself? When peace guardeth the heart and mind within, compasseth it as a castle or garrison,
to hold out all the vain alarms of external things, may not all the world be troubled about
him? What though the floods lift up their voice, if they come not into the soul? If he be one
and the same in peace and trouble, prosperity and adversity, do not lament him in the one more
than the other. It is the mind that maketh your condition good or bad; but yet, I say, the
believer hath likewise peace with all the creatures, which the world hath not, and even in
this he is a privileged man. He is in league with the stones of the field, and in peace in
his tabernacle, Job v. 23. All things are his, because he is Christ’s, and all are Christ’s,
who is the possessor of heaven and earth, at least the righteous heir of both, 1 Cor iii. 21.
The unbeliever hath no right to the creature; though there be a cessation for a time between
them and him, yet that is no peace, for they will at length be armed against him. They are
witnesses already against him, and groan to God for the corruption that man’s sin hath subjected
them unto. His table is, it may be, full, yet it is a snare unto him; he getteth ease and quietness
outwardly: nay, but it slayeth the fool and destroyeth him. But the godly man is at peace,
through Christ’s blood, with all crosses and comforts; the sting and enmity of all evils is
taken away by Christ. Poverty is made a friend, because Christ was poor; hunger and thirst
is become a friend, because Christ was hungry and thirsty; reproach and contempt is at peace
with him, because Christ was despised; afflictions and sorrows are reconciled to him, because
Christ was a man of sorrows, and acquainted with griefs; in a word, death itself is become
a friend, since Christ subdued it by lasting of it. I may say, the worst things to a natural
man are become best friends to the believer; the grave keepeth his body and dust in hope. Death
is a better friend than life, for it ministers an entry into glory: it is the door of eternal
life: it taketh down the tabernacle of mortality, that we may be clothed upon with immortality.
In sum, whatever it be, Christ hath stamped a new quality on it; it cometh through his hand,
and so, if it be not good in itself, yet it is good in the use, and in his appointment, Rom.
viii. 21. If it be not good, yet it worketh together for our good; it contributeth to our good,
because it is in his skilful hand, who can bring good out of evil, peace out of trouble. O
that ye were persuaded to be Christians indeed, to love his law, and trust in him. Great peace
have all such. This were more to you than peace in the world; your peace should be as a river,
for abundance and perpetuity; no drought could dry it up; it should run in time as a large
river, and when time is done, it would embosom itself in eternity, in that ocean of eternal
peace and joy which the saints are drowned in above; other men’s peace is but like a brook
that dries up in summer.

Sermon XIII. 27. And this was not peace in the world that he enjoyed; you know what his life
was, a continual warfare; but a peace above the world, that passeth understanding. “In the
world you shall have trouble, but in me you shall have peace,” saith Christ,—a peace that shall
make trouble no trouble. You must lay your accounts to have such a life as the forerunner had;
but withal, as he hath left us his trouble, so hath he left us his peace; the trouble will
have an end, but the joy can no man take from you. We have this sure promise to rest upon,
in behalf of the church, peace shall be in Israel; a peace that the world knoweth not, and
so cannot assault it, or take it away. O that ye would hearken to this word, that ye would
trust in the Lord, and stay upon your God, then should your peace be as a river, Isa. xlviii.
18. There is nothing more desired in time of trouble than peace; but all peace is not better
than war: some necessary war is better than evil-grounded peace. The kingdoms have been long
in pain, labouring to bring forth a safe and well-grounded peace. But, alas! we have been in
pain and brought forth wind; when we looked for peace, no good came, and for healing, behold
trouble. But how shall we arrive at our desired haven? Certainly, if peace be well-grounded,
it must have truth for its foundation, and righteousness for its companion; truth must spring
out of the earth, and righteousness look down from heaven. This were the compendious way for
public peace, if every man would make his own peace with God. There are controversies with
God, between king, nobles, and people; and therefore God fomenteth the wars in the kingdoms.
If you would have these ended, make peace with God in Christ, by flying in unto him, and resting
on him; more trusting in God would despatch our wars; trusting in the arm of flesh continueth
them. Always whatever be, peace or war, here is the business that more concerns you,—your eternal
peace and safety; and, if ye were more careful of this, to save your own souls, you would help
the public more. If you could be once persuaded to be Christians indeed, we needed not press
many duties in reference to the public; and until you be once persuaded to save yourselves,
by flying from the wrath to come, it is in vain to speak of public duties to you. We do therefore
declare unto you the way of obtaining perfect peace,—peace as a river; if you will quit all
self-confidences, flee from yourselves as your greatest enemies, and trust your souls unto
the promise in Jesus Christ, and lean all your weight on him, we assure you, your peace shall
run abundantly and perpetually. Whoever trusteth in creatures, in uncertain riches, in worldly
peace, in whatsoever thing besides the only living and glorious Lord, we persuade him, that
his peace shall fail as a brook. All things in this world shall deal deceitfully with you,
as a brook which is blackish, by reason of ice; what time it waxeth warm, it shall evanish.
You that looked and waited for water in it shall be confounded, because you hoped, and are
ashamed because of your expectation. Job vi. 15, &c. The summer shall dry up your peace, and
what will ye do? But if you pour out your souls on him, and trust in the fountain of living
waters, you shall not be ashamed, for your peace shall be as a river. The elephant is said
to trust that he can drink out a river; but he is deceived, for he may drink again,—it runs,
and shall run for ever. If any thing would essay to take your peace from you, it is a vain
attempt, for it runs like a river; it may be shallower and deeper, but it cannot run dry, because
of the living fountain it proceedeth from. There is no other thing can be made sure; all besides
this is uncertain, and this only is worthy to be made sure; nothing besides this can give you
satisfaction.

Are your hearts asking within you, how shall this peace be attained?    If you desire to know
it, consider these words, “Whose heart is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee.” It
concerneth you much to know well, what this is that your eternal peace depends on.

Trusting in God, is the leaning of the soul’s weight on God. The soul hath a burden above it,
heavy and unsupportable, and this the truster casteth upon God; and so he is a loadened and
weary man, whom Christ exhorteth to come to him, and he shall find ease for his soul, Matt.
xi. 28; Prov. iii. 5. Leaning to ourselves, and trusting in God are opposed. Psal. xxii. 10,
trusting is exponed(296) to be “a casting upon God.” Psal. xxv. 1, it is called, “a lifting
up the soul to him.” This one thing is included in the bosom of trusting and believing, that
a man hath many burdens too heavy for him, which would sink him down: the believer is such
a one as Jehoshaphat, 2 Chron. xx. 12, “O Lord, we have no might against this great company,
neither know we what to do.” O Lord, I have an army of iniquities against me, a great company
compasseth me about; an army of curses as numerous as mine iniquities; both are innumerable
as the sand of the sea; I have no might against them, neither know I what to do: nay, the Lord
is against me, his wrath is like the roaring of a lion; what can I do against him? The first
beginning of trusting in God is distrusting ourselves; and until a man see his duty and burden
beyond his strength, his burden greater than he can bear, you will never persuade him to come
to Jesus Christ, and lean on him. We will not preach any such doctrine, as to discharge any
to come to Christ, till they be wearied and loaden; for, when a man conceiveth that he wanteth
that weariedness, whither shall he go to find it? Is there any fountain, but one, Jesus Christ,
both of grace and preparations to it, if any such be? But this we preach unto you, that until
you be wearied and loaden, you will not cast your burden on Jesus. We need not discharge you
to come till you be such, for certainly you will not come. This is the desperate wickedness
of our hearts, that we will never forsake ourselves till we can do no better. Until men be
as David, “I looked on the right hand, and there was none would know me; refuge failed me,”
certainly they will not cry to God. Men will look round about them, before they will look up
above them; they will cast the burden of their souls upon any thing, upon their own sorrow
and contrition, upon their resolution to amend, upon external duties and privileges, upon civil
honesty, until all these succumb under the weight of their salvation; and then, it may be,
they will ask after him who bare our griefs. I would not willingly speak of preparations to
faith, because it putteth men upon searching for something in themselves, upon fashioning their
own hearts, and trimming them to come to Christ; whereas there is nothing can be acceptable
to him but what cometh from him. But I think all that men intend, who speak of preparations,
may be gained this way by holding out unto men the impossibility of coming to Christ, till
they be emptied of themselves. Not that the one is a thing going before, to be done by us,
but because they are all one; it is one motion of the soul to come out of itself, and into
Jesus; it is one thing really to distrust ourselves, and to trust in him; and by this means,
when the true nature of faith itself is holden out, men might examine themselves rather by
it, whether they have it, than by the preparations of it.

But to come to our purpose, when the soul is pressed under burdens of sin and misery, of duty
and insufficiency, and inability to do it, then the gospel discovereth unto the wearied soul
a place of reposing and rest. The Lord hath established Christ Jesus, an “ensign to the people;”
those who seek unto him shall find his rest glorious, Isa. xi. 10. When there is discovered
in us all emptiness and inability, yea impossibility to save ourselves, or perform any duty,
then are we led to Jesus Christ, as one who is come with grace and truth, in whom it hath pleased
the Father all fulness should dwell; and the turning of the soul over upon him is trusting
in him. You would not mistake this; trusting in the Lord in its first and most native acting,
is not always persuasion of his good-will and love in particular. No, the soul meets first
with a general promise, holding out his good-will in general; and the soul closeth with this,
as a thing both good and true,—as faithful in itself, and worthy of all acceptation. This is
it that we must first meet with,—an all-sufficient Saviour, able to save to the utmost all
that come to him; and the soul’s accepting of that blessed Saviour on the terms he is offered,
this is believing in him, and trusting to him, as a complete Saviour.

Now when the soul hath disburdened itself upon God, and set its seal to the truth of the promises
in the gospel for salvation; if the light of the Spirit shine to discover this unto it, that
it hath laid hold on his strength who is able to save to the utmost, then it becometh persuaded
of his love in particular; and this is rather the sealing after believing, than believing itself.

When once men have hazarded their souls upon his word, and trusted in him, then they may trust
in him for all particulars: he that hath given his Son for us, will he not with him give all
things? This, therefore, is the continual recourse of a believer,—from discovered emptiness
and insufficiency in himself, to travel unto the fulness and strength of Jesus Christ, that
his strength may be perfected in weakness. Yea, when all things seem contrary, and his dispensation
writes bitter things against us, yet ought we to trust in him, Job xiii. 15. There is a peace
of wilfulness and violence in faith, that will look always towards his word, whatever be threatened
to the contrary.

Now, from this faith in God, floweth a constant dependence and stayedness on him, they are
stayed on him, because they trusted in him; for faith discovereth in God such grounds, that
it may lean its weight upon him without wavering and changing. It considereth his power, his
good will, and his faithfulness; he is able to perform, he is willing to do it, and he is faithful,
because he hath promised. His greatness and power is a high rock, higher than we, that faith
leadeth us unto. His love and good-will in Jesus Christ, maketh an open entry and ready access
to that rock; and faithfulness engageth both to give a shelter and refuge to the poor sinner.
Would a soul be any more tossed, would there be any place for wavering and doubting, if souls
considered his excellent loving-kindness, and great goodness laid up and treasured with him
for those that trust in him? Psalm xxxvi. 7. Who would not put their trust under the shadow
of his wings, and think themselves safe? Again, if his eternal power were pondered, how he
is able to effectuate whatever he pleaseth; what everlasting arms he hath that by a word supports
the frame of the world; what he can do, if he stretch out his arm; and then, if these two immutable
things, (Heb. vi. 18,) his promise and his oath, were looked upon;—how he hath engaged himself
in his truth, and sworn in his holiness; would not a soul lie safely between these three? What
strong consolation would such a threefold consideration yield? Would any wind or tempest blow
within these walls mounted up to heaven?

Stayedness on God is nothing else but the fixedness of believing and trusting, Ps. cxii. 7,
8, “his heart is fixed, trusting in God; his heart is established.” It is even the mature and
ripe age of faith. Faith, while it is yet in infancy, in its tender years, neither can endure
storms, nor can it confirm us in them; but when it hath sprung up and grown in that root of
Jesse, when it is rooted and established in Jesus Christ, then it establisheth the soul. Faith
abiding in him and taking root, groweth, confirmed as a tree that cannot easily be moved; and
if you establish faith, you shall be established.

There are two particulars which I conceive the trusting soul is stayed on. First, in the meditation
of God. Secondly, in expectation from him of all good things. When I say the meditation of
God, I take in both contemplation and affection. The most part of men have but few thoughts
of God at all; even those who trust in him do not consider sufficiently what a one he is in
whom they believe. If faith were vigorous and lively, it would put men to often thinking on
him, seeking to know him in his glorious names; the mind would be stayed upon this glorious
object, as the most mysterious and wonderful one. How strong are men’s minds with their vanities?
When they awake, they are not still with God. The meditation of him is a burden to them; any
other thing getteth more time and thoughts. But meditation addeth affection to contemplation;
men may think long upon the heavens and their course, but their affections are not ravished
with them. But thus is the soul stayed on God;—when the soul’s desires are towards the remembrance
of his name, then affection stayeth the mind upon what it pitcheth on; and certainly the mind
giveth but passing looks, constrained thoughts, where the heart is not. Here is David’s meditation,
Ps. i. “My delight is in the law of the Lord.” The soul of a believer should be constant and
fixed in the consideration of God, till he be wholly engaged to admiration and wondering. “O
Lord, how excellent is thy name,” Psal. viii. 1: “and who is like unto thee?” You all say that
you believe in God, and know his power,—you know he is good, he is merciful, just, long-suffering,
faithful, &c. But what is all this knowledge but ignorance, and your light darkness, when it
doth not press you to put your trust in his name? You know; nay, but you consider not what
you know. This is trusting, when the mind is stayed on what it knoweth, when all the scattered
thoughts and affections are called home, and united in one, to be exercised about this comprehensive
object, “the Lord our God.” It is not want of knowledge destroyeth you, but want of consideration
of what you know, and this is brutishness. Men’s hearts do not carry the seal and stamp of
their knowledge, because thoughts of God and his word are but as passengers that go through
a land, as lightning going through the mind, but warms it not; and so their practice carrieth
no impression of it either. How base is it for those who have God for their God, to be so ignorant
of him! Would not any man willingly travel about his own possessions? Have you such a large
portion, believers, and should ye be taken up with other vanities? Should your hearts and minds
be stayed on them, more than the living God? There is a great vanity and levity in men’s minds;
“The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man that they are vanity.” There is an unsettledness of spirit,—we
cannot pitch on that upon which we may be stayed; and so all the spirits of men are in a continual
motion from one thing to another, for nothing giveth complete satisfaction, and therefore it
must go and try one after another, to see if it can find in it what it found not in the former.
And such is the inconstancy of the spirit, that it licketh up its vomit; and what thing it
refused, it eateth it up as its meat. The time is spent in choosing and refusing, rejecting
one thing and taking another, and again returning to what you have rejected. Thus are men tossed
up and down, and unstable in all their ways, as a ship without ballasting. Now, faith and trusting
in God is the ballast and weight of this inconstant ship: it is the anchor to stay it from
being driven to and fro. If once men would pitch upon this one Lord, who hath in himself eminently
all the scattered perfections of creatures, and infinitely more,—if you would consider him,
and meditate on him, till your souls loved him, would you not be ravished with him? Would you
not build your house beside him, and dwell in the meditation of his name? This would fix and
establish you in duties—“when I awake, I am still with thee.” A little searching and experience
discovereth emptiness in all beside; and therefore is it, that the soul removeth sooner from
such a particular creature than it expected. But here is One that is “past finding out.” The
more I search and find, I find him the more above what I can search and find. The creatures
are but painted and fair in men’s apprehension, and at a distance; but the near enjoyment of
them discovereth the delusion, and sendeth a man away ashamed, because he trusted. But the
Lord God is, and there is no other. He is not as waters that fail, no liar,—he is an everlasting
fountain,—the more you dig and draw, it runs the faster; he will never send any away ashamed
that trust in him, because they shall find more than they expected.

Therefore the soul that is stayed on meditation of God, and knoweth him certainly, will be
fixed in expectation from him. Our expectation from the creatures changeth, because it is often
frustrated. Disappointment meets it. It is above what is in the creature, and so it must meet
with disappointment; but as he is above our meditation, so is he far above our expectation;
and if a man’s experience answer his hope, he hath no reason to change his hope. The Lord hath
often done things we looked not for, but we never looked for any thing, according to the grounds
of the word, but it was done, or a better than it. He doth not always answer our limitations;
but if he give gold, when we sought silver, are we not answered? Are we disappointed? There
are three things that use most to disquiet and toss men’s spirits,—sin and wrath, future events,
and present calamities. Faith establisheth the soul on God in all these, and suffereth it not
to be driven to and fro with these winds; it finds a harbour and refuge in God from all these.
If he be pursued by the avenger of blood, God’s wrath and justice, here is an open city of
refuge that he may run to and be safe.  If iniquities compass me about, yet I will not fear,
but oppose unto that great company the many sufferings and obedience of Jesus Christ. My conscience
challengeth and writeth bitter things against me, yet I have an answer in that blood that speaketh
better things than Abel’s. If sins prevail, he will purge them away. His mercy is above all
my sin, and his virtue and power is above my sin. He hath promised, and will he not do it?
Oft times men’s souls are perplexed and tossed about future events, careful for to morrow.
This is a great torment of spirit, it cutteth and divideth it,—putteth a man to his own providence,
as if there were no God, but he that trusteth in God is established in this, “His heart is
fixed trusting in the Lord.” He hath committed his soul to him, and why may he not his body?
He hath nothing but his promise for eternal salvation, and may not that same suffice for temporal?
He careth for me, saith faith, why then should we both care about one thing? He hath given
his Son for me, the most precious gift which the world cannot match, and will he not with him
give all these lesser things? And thus the believer encloseth himself within the Father’s love
and providence, and is fixed, not fearing evil tidings, for what tidings can be evil, seeing
our Father hath the sovereign disposing of all affairs, and knoweth what is best for us? Present
dispensations often shake men, and drive them to and fro, their feet slip, and are not established,
“Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.” But if you trusted in God, and considered what
is in him to oppose to all difficulties and calamities, you would say, “I shall not be moved,
though the floods lift up their voice.” If you believed his love, would not this sweeten all
his dealing? He maketh all work together for good. Sovereignty, righteousness, and mercy, are
sure and firm ground to stand upon in all storms. You may cast anchor at any of those, and
lie secure. “It is the Lord, let him do what he pleaseth.” This was enough to quiet the saints
in old times. Should he give account of his matters to us? Shall the clay say to the potter,
why is it thus? His absolute right by creation maketh him, beyond all exception, do what he
pleases, but beside this, he is pleased and condescendeth to reason with us, and give account
of his matters, to testify to our conscience that he is righteous in all his ways. It was the
ground of Jeremiah’s settling, Lam iii. “It is of the Lord’s mercy that we are not consumed.”
It should have allayed and stayed Job. Know this, thou art punished less than thy iniquities
deserve. Who will set a time to plead with him? Shall any be found righteous before him? And
this might stop all men’s mouths, and put them in the dust to keep silence, seeing he hath
law to do infinitely more than he doth, why should not we rather proclaim his clemency, than
argue him so very hard? If to both those you shall add the consideration of his mercy, that
all his paths are mercy and truth unto you, even when he correcteth most severely, so that
you may bless him as well for rods as for meat and clothing, and count yourself blessed when
you are taught by the rod and the word, the one speaking to the other, and the other sealing
its instruction,—if you believed that it were a fruit of his love, that “he chasteneth every
son whom he loveth,” because he will not let you depart from him, will not let you settle upon
a present world, and forget your country above, therefore he compasseth you about with hedges
of thorns to keep in your way, and therefore he maketh this world bitter and unpleasant, that
you may have no continuing city,—if all this were believed would not the soul triumph with
Paul, “What can separate me from the love of God?”—not past things, for all my sins are blotted
out, and shall be remembered no more, not present things, for they work to good, and are a
fruit of his love, not things to come, for that is to come which shall more declare his love
than what is past, would not a soul sleep securely within the compass of this power, this love,
and faithfulness of God, without fear of dashing or sinking?

Now, judge whether a perfect peace may not flow from all this. May it not be a perfect calm,
when the mountains that environ go up to heaven? Not only doth the soul trust in God, but God
keepeth the trusting soul in peace. He is the Creator of peace, and the preserver of it,—“I
create peace, I keep him in peace.” The same power and virtue is required to the preserving
of a thing, and the first being of it. Our faith and hope in God is too weak an anchor to abide
all storms. Our cords would break, our hands faint and weary, but he is the everlasting God,
who faileth not, and wearieth not. He holdeth an invisible gripe of us. We are kept by his
power unto salvation, and we are kept by his power in peace. “Thy right hand holdeth me,” saith
David, and this helpeth me to pursue thee. What maketh believers inexpugnable, impregnable?
Is it their strength? No indeed. But “salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.” Almighty
power is a strong wall, though invisible,—this power worketh in us and about us.

Now, believers, pity the world about you, that knoweth not this peace. When they lie secure,
and cry Peace, peace, alas! they are a city open without walls as the plain field,—there is
no keeper there, nothing to hold off destruction. Entertain your own peace, do not grieve the
Spirit who hath sealed it. If you return to folly after he hath spoken peace to you, I persuade
you, you shall not maintain this peace. There may be peace with God, but no peace in thy conscience,
as long as the whoredoms of thy heart are to the fore, thou mayest be secure, but security
is worse than fear. Know this, that continuing in a course of sin, entertaining any known sin,
shall trouble thy peace. If God hath spoken peace to thee, thou shalt not lodge that enemy
in peace. “Great peace have they that love thy law.” Obedience and delight in it doth not make
peace, but it is the way of peace, and much meditation on the blessed word of God is the most
excellent mean to preserve this peace, if it be secured with much correspondence with heaven
by prayer, Phil. iv. 6, 7. If you would disburden your hearts daily at the throne of grace,
peace should guard and keep your heart, and then your peace would be perfect indeed. But because
your faith is here imperfect, your requests few and infervent, your follies and iniquities
many, therefore is this promised perfection a stranger to the most part of Christians. Always
what we want here, we must expect to have made up shortly. Heaven is a land of peace, and all
things are there in full age, here all are in minority, it is but yet night, but when the day
shall break up, and the shadows fly away, and the Prince of peace shall appear and be revealed,
he shall bring peace and grace both with him, and both perfect. To Him be praise and glory.

Sermon XIV.

    Isaiah lix. 20.—“And the Redeemer shall come unto Zion, and unto
    them that turn,” &c.

Doctrines, as things, have their seasons and times. Every thing is beautiful in its season.
So there is no word of truth, but it hath a season and time in which it is beautiful. And indeed
that is a great part of wisdom, to bring forth everything in its season, to discern when and
where, and to whom it is pertinent and edifying, to speak such and such truths. But there is
one doctrine that is never out of season, and therefore it may be preached in season and out
of season, as the apostle commandeth. Indeed to many hearts it is always out of season, and
especially in times of trouble and anguish, when it should be most seasonable, when the opportunity
may commend the beauty of it, but in itself, and to as many as have ever found the power of
it on their hearts, it is always the most seasonable and pertinent doctrine,—I mean the very
subject-matter of this text, the news of a Redeemer to captive sinners. It is in itself such
glad tidings, and shines with so much beauty and splendour to troubled sinners, that it casteth
abroad a lustre and beauty on the feet of the messengers that carry it, Isa. xl. It is a cordial
in affliction, whether outward or inward, and it is withal the only true comfort of prosperity.
It allayeth the bitterness of things that cross us, and filleth up the emptiness of things
that pretend to please us, it giveth sweetness to the one, and true sweetness to the other.
Reason then—that should always be welcome to us, which we stand always in need of, that it
should always be new and fresh in our affection, which is always recent and new in its operation
and efficacy toward us. Other news how great or good soever, suppose they were able to fill
the hearts of all in a nation with joy, yet they grow stale, they lose their virtue within
few days. What footsteps or remainder is of all the triumphs and trophies of nations, of all
their solemnities for their victorious success at home and abroad? These great news, which
once were the subject of the discourse of and delight of many thousands,—who report them now
with delight? So those things that may cause joy and triumph to some at this time, as they
cannot choose but make more hearts sad than glad; so they will quickly lose even that efficacy
they have, and become tasteless as the white of an egg, to them that are most ravished with
them. But, my beloved, here is glad tidings of a Redeemer come to Zion to save sinners, which
have no occasion of sadness in them to any, but to those who are not so happy as to consider
them, or believe them, and they are this day, after many hundred, I may say thousand, years
since they were first published, as green and recent, as refreshing to wearied souls, as ever
they were. Yea, such is the nature of them, and such an everlasting spring of consolation is
in them, that the oftener they be told, and the more they be considered, the sweeter they are.
They grow green in old age, and bring forth fruit, and are fat and flourishing; and indeed
it is the never-dying virtue and everlasting sap of this word of life, that maketh the righteous
so, Psal. xcii. 14. This word of a Redeemer at the first publishing, and for a long time, was
but like waters issuing out from under the threshold, and then they came to the ankles, when
it was published to a whole nation; but still the longer it swells the higher above knees,
and loins, till it be a great inexhausted river, and thus it runs at this day through the world,
and hath a healing virtue and a quickening virtue, Ezek. xlvii., and a sanctifying virtue,
ver. 9-12. Now this is our errand to you, to invite you to come to these waters. If ye thirst,
come to be quenched; if ye thirst not, ye have so much the more need to come, because your
thirst after things that will not profit you, will destroy you, and your unsensibleness of
your need of this is your greatest misery.

That the words may be more lively unto us, we may call to mind, the greatest and deepest design
that hath been carried on in the world, by the Maker and Ruler of the world, is the marriage
of Christ his Son with the Church. This was primarily intended, when he made the world, as
a palace to celebrate it in; this was especially aimed at, when he joined Adam and Eve, in
the beginning of time, together in paradise, that the second Adam should be more solemnly joined
to the church, at the end of time, in the paradise of heaven; and this the apostle draws out
as the sampler and arch-copy of all marriages and conjunctions in the creatures, Eph. v. Now
this being the great design of God, of which all other things done in time are but the footsteps
and low representations, the great question is, how this shall be brought about, because of
the great distance and huge disproportion of the parties, He “being the brightness of the Father’s
glory,” and we being wholly eclipsed and darkened since our fall;—He higher than the heaven
of heavens, and we fallen as low as hell into a dungeon of darkness and misery, led away by
sin and Satan, lying in that abominable posture represented in Ezek. xvi.; not only unsuitable
to engage his love, but fit to procure even the loathing of all that pass by.

Now it being thus, the words do furnish us with the noble resolution of the Son, about the
taking away of the distance, and the royal offer of the Father, to make the match hold the
better, both flowing from infinite love, in the most free and absolute manner that can be imagined.
The Son’s resolution, which is withal the Father’s promise, is to come into the world first
to redeem his spouse, and so to marry her; “and the Redeemer shall come unto Zion,” &c. The
Father’s offer, that he might not be wanting to help it forward, is to dispone,(297) by an
irrevocable covenant, having the force of an absolute donation, his word and Spirit to Christ
and his seed, to the church, even to the end of the world, (ver. 21). “As for me, this is my
covenant.” The Son hath done his part, and is to express his infinite love, infinite condescendency,
and stooping below his majesty. Now, as for me, I will show my good-will to it in my infinite
bounty and riches of grace to the church; he hath given himself for her,—I will give my Spirit;
and thus it cannot but hold.

We shall speak a word then of these three: first, what estate and condition Christ findeth
his church in, out of which she must be taken to be his spouse; then, what way and course is
laid down by the council of heaven, to fill up the infinite distance between Christ and sinners;
and, to close all, we shall show you the suitableness of these promises, and the wonderful
fitness of this doctrine to the church, at this time Isaiah preached it, and at all times.

The first is supposed in the words. Redemption supposeth captivity or slavery; redemption of
persons importeth captivity and slavery of these persons, and redemption of other things that
belong to persons, importeth sale or alienation of our right to them. That inheritance of eternal
life, we have mortgaged it, and given away our right to it. The favour of God and the blessedness
of communion with him, was Adam’s birthright, and by a free donation was made his proper inheritance
and possession, to be transmitted to his posterity. But O! for how small a thing did he give
it away,—for a little taste of an apple he sold his estate; and both he and we may lament over
it, as the king that was constrained to render himself and all his army for want of water.
When he tasted it, “For how small a thing,” saith he, “have I lost my kingdom!” Then our persons
are in a state of bondage, in captivity and slavery; captives under the wrath of God, and slaves
or servants to sin. There needed no greater difference and deformity between Christ and us,
than this,—our servitude and bondage to sin, which truly is the basest and most abominable
vassalage in the world. The abasement of the highest prince, to the vilest servitude under
the basest creatures in his dominion, is but a shadow of that loathsome and ugly posture of
our souls. This servitude doth in a manner unman us, and transform us into beasts. Certainly
it is that which, in the holy eyes of God, is more loathsome than any thing beside. He seeth
not that deformity in poverty, nakedness, sickness, slavery. Let a man be as miserable as Job
on his dunghill, it is not so much that, as the unseen and undiscerned posture and habit of
their souls, that he abominateth. Now what a match is this, for the highest and holiest prince,
the Son of the greatest King, and heir of all things! But if you add to this slavery, that
captivity under the curse and wrath of God,—that all men are shut up, and enclosed in the prison
of God’s faithful and irrevocable sentence of condemnation, and given over by the righteous
judgment of God, to be kept by Satan in everlasting chains of darkness,—he keepeth men now,
by the invisible cords of their own sins, but these chains of darkness are reserved for both
him and men,—now indeed, this superaddeth a great difficulty to the business. The other may
be a difficulty to his mind and affection, because there is nothing to procure love, but all
that may enforce hatred and loathing. But suppose his infinite love could come over this stay,
could leap over this mountain by the freedom of it, yet there is a greater impediment in the
way, that may seem difficult to his power, and it is the justice and power of God, enclosing
sinners and shutting them up for eternal wrath, till a due satisfaction be had from or for
them. You see then, how infinite the distance is betwixt him and us, and how great the difficulty
is to bring about this intended union. Angels were sent with flaming swords to encompass the
tree of life and keep it from man, but man is environed by the curse of the Almighty God. The
justice, the faithfulness, and the power of God do guard or set a watch about him, that there
is no access to him to save him, but by undergoing the greatest danger, and undertaking the
greatest party that ever was dealt withal, and the strictest and severest too.

This being the case then, the distance being so vast, and the difficulty so great, the distance
being twofold, between his nature and ours, and between our quality and his: an infinite distance
between his divine nature and our flesh, and besides an extreme contrariety between the holiness
of his nature, and the sinfulness of ours,—[there is here] such a repugnancy, as there is no
reconciliation of them. You know what Paul speaketh of the marriage of Christians with idolaters:
how much more will it hold here? What communion can be between light and darkness, between
God and Belial? Is it possible these can be reduced to amity, and brought to so near an union?
Yet for all this, it is possible; but love and wisdom must find out the way. Infinite love
and infinite wisdom consulting together, what distance can they not swallow up? What difficulty
can they not overcome?

And here you have it, the distance undertaken to be removed, both by the Father and the Son,—(for
all this while we can do nothing to help it forward; while the blessed plot is going on, we
are posting the faster to our own destruction). And this is the way condescended upon; first,
To fill up that wide gap between his divine spiritual nature, and our mortal fleshly nature,
it is agreed upon, that the Son shall come in our flesh, and be made partaker of flesh and
blood with the children; and this is meant by this promise, “the Redeemer shall come to Sion;”
which is plainly expressed by his own mouth, John xvi. 28, “I came forth from the Father, and
am come into the world.” There being such a distance between his majesty and our baseness,
love maketh him stoop down and humble himself to the very state of a servant, Phil. ii. 7,
8. And thus the humiliation of Christ filleth up the first distance; for “love and majesty
cannot long dwell together,” nec in una sede morantur majestas et amor;(298) but love will
draw majesty down below itself, to meet with the object of it. This was the great journey Christ
took to meet with us, and it is downward below himself; but his love hath chosen it, to be
like us, though he should be unlike himself. How divinely doth the divine apostle speak of
it, “And the Word was made flesh, and he dwelt among us,” John i. 14. And therefore the children
of Adam may in verity say of him, what the holy Trinity, in a holy irony spake of man, “Lo,
he is become as one of us.” It was a singular and eminent privilege conferred upon man in his
first creation, that the Trinity in a manner consulted about him, “Let us make man after our
image;” but now when man hath lost that image, to have such a result of the council of the
Trinity about it, “let one of us be made man, to make up the distance between man and us,”—O!
what soul can rightly conceive it without ravishment and wonder, without an ecstacy of admiration
and affection!—that the Lord should become a servant!—the Heir of all things be stripped naked
of all!—the brightness of the Father’s glory, be thus eclipsed and darkened!—and in a word,
that which comprehendeth all wonders in the creation,—who made all things,—be himself made
of a woman! and God become a man, and all this out of his infinite love, to give a demonstration
of love to the world; so high a person abased, to exalt so base and low as we are! There is
a mystery in this, a great mystery, a mystery of wisdom, to swallow up the understanding with
wonder; and a mystery of love, to ravish the hearts of men with affection,—depths of both,
in the emptiness of the Son of God. The prophet doubted what was commanded, to seek a sign,
whether in heaven above, or in the depth beneath; but what he would not ask, God gave in his
great mercy, “Behold a virgin shall conceive a Son, and they shall call his name Immanuel;”
a sign indeed from heaven, and the height of heaven, because he is God; and a sign from the
depth beneath too, because he is man; “God with us,” and so composed to unite heaven and earth
together; “God with us,” that he might at length bring us to be with God. He became Immanuel,
that he might make us Immelanu.(299) If that was given as tidings of great joy, and as the
highest and deepest sign of love and favour, at that time to uphold the fainting church; O!
how much more may it now comfort us, when it is not a virgin shall conceive, but a virgin hath
conceived! May not the joy be increased, that the Redeemer is not to come, but come already,
and hath made up that wide separation which was between us and him, by his low condescendency
to his union with our nature! This is one step of advancement towards that happy marriage,
that the whole creation seems to groan and travail for, Rom. viii. 22. But yet there is a great
difficulty in the way. We are in a state of captivity; we are prisoners of justice, have sold
ourselves and our happiness; and now our natural inheritance lies in the lake of fire and brimstone,—heirs
of wrath, concluded under the curse of God; and indeed, this was insuperable to all flesh;
neither men nor angels could ransom us from this. The redemption of the soul of man is so precious,
and the redemption of the inheritance of man, that is, heaven, is so precious too, that none
in heaven or earth can be found, that can pay the price of them, so that it would have ceased
for ever. And here the great design of Christ’s union with sinners would have been marred and
miscarried, if himself had not undertaken to overcome this too; and indeed, as there could
none be found to open the seals of the book of God’s decrees concerning his church,—none worthy
in heaven or earth but the Lamb, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, he prevailed to open it, and
loose the seals thereof, Rev. v. 3-5. I think the 16th verse of this chapter gives us a sensible
representation of this. The preceding discourse from the beginning, holding out the sinful
and deplorable condition of that people, and in them, as a type of the desperate wickedness
of all mankind, and withal their desperate misery, for Paul, (Rom. iii.) maketh the application
for us; and from this, concludeth all under sin, and so all under wrath, all guilty, that every
mouth may be stopped; men waiting for light, and behold obscurity; for brightness, but walking
in darkness; groping for the wall, like the blind, stumbling at noon-day as in the night, and
in desolate places as dead men; all roaring like beasts, and mourning like doves, whenever
the apprehension of the terror of God entereth. Now it is subjoined, verse 16, “And he saw
that there was no man,” &c.; as if he had waited and looked through all the world, if any would
appear, either to speak or do for man, if any would offer themselves, and interpose themselves
for his salvation. “Therefore his own arm brought salvation, and his righteousness, it sustained
him.” Therefore the Son of God steps in and offers himself, as if God had first essayed all
others, and when heaven is full of wonder and silence, he breaks out in this, “Lo, I come to
do thy will,” Psal. xl. Since I have gotten a body to be like sinners, I will also come in
their place, and I will give my life a ransom for them; and therefore it is subjoined, “the
Redeemer shall come to Zion;” he shall come clothed with vengeance and indignation as a garment,
against the enemies of his church, sin and Satan, in zeal and burning love to his designed
spouse. He shall strengthen himself, and stir up his might and fury against all that detain
her captive.

Now, indeed, he is the only fittest person for this business in heaven or earth; for he hath
both right to do it, and he only hath might and power to accomplish it. He hath right to the
redemption of sinners, because he is our kinsman, nearest of blood to us.

Now, you know the right of redemption belonged to the kinsman, Lev. xxv. 25. And therefore
when the nearest kinsman could not redeem Naomi and Ruth’s parcel of land, Boaz did it, as
being next. And suitable to this, our Lord Jesus, when others as near could not, and were not
able, he hath done it, and taken men and angels to witness, that he hath first redeemed us,
that he might marry us, as Eph. v.; that he hath purchased us to be his wife. And indeed the
very word imports this; Goel,(300) a redeemer and kinsman, passing under one word: so Job,
“I know that my Redeemer,” or my kinsman, “liveth:” and because our kinsman, therefore most
interested in our redemption; for, for this end he became partaker of flesh and blood with
the children, that he might destroy our greatest enemy, Satan, and redeem us, Heb. ii. 14.
And besides, he hath right to redemption, as the Church’s husband, because he must mediate
between her and all others; none can reach her, except he please, or prosecute a plea against
her, as in the case of the wife’s making a vow, if her husband consented not, it was void,
(Numb. xxx.,) but if he heard of it and held his peace, it was confirmed. Now the Lord Jesus
hath known this deplorable estate in which we are captives, and he hath testified his utter
dislike of our binding over ourselves to death, and resigning ourselves to Satan; and therefore
this bondage in which we are detained, is not confirmed and ratified, but he hath right remaining
to redeem us from the hand of all our enemies. But then, he alone hath might and power to do
it, for God hath laid help on him, and made him able and mighty to save us to the uttermost.
It was not gold or silver, or corruptible things. Suppose the whole earth were turned into
gold or precious stones; he must give person for person, and one person equivalent to all—his
own life, his own blood for us; and the value of this was infinitely raised by the stamp of
his divinity put upon it. The king for the servant,—one that knew no sin for sinners,—yea,
God for man. This superadds infinite worth, and makes it an over-ransom, and over purchase,
a ransom to buy our persons from hell, a purchase to redeem us to our inheritance, heaven,
that we had lost, and these two styles it gets, λυτρον, αντιλυτρον.(301)

Now, you see the great difficulty is overcome and taken out of the way: Christ, being made
a curse, hath purchased a redemption from the curse of the law, Gal. iii. 13. But yet, there
is another point of vast distance, I may say contrariety and enmity, between us and him. He
is holy and undefiled, all fair, and no spot in him; we are wholly defiled and depraved by
sin, our souls are become the habitation of devils, and a cage of every unclean and hateful
bird; in a word, he hath not only our enemies to overcome, but our own hearts to conquer, and
our enmity to take away. This makes the widest separation from him. Now, he filled up much
of the distance, with his taking our flesh, and he removed the great difficulty, by dying in
our flesh his humiliation to be a man, brought him nearer us, and his further humiliation to
be a dying, crucified, and buried man, brought him yet a step nearer us. But nearer he cannot
come, for lower he cannot be, except he were a sinner, which would mar the whole design, and
take away all the comfort of his likeness to us. Therefore, since he hath come so low down
to us, it is suitable we be raised up one step to meet him, and so the exaltation of sinners
shall make up all the distance, and bring the two parties to that long since designed, and
long desired meeting. Now, for this end and purpose, the Son undertakes the redemption of his
church from sin and ungodliness as well as wrath, and therefore you have that which is expressed
as the character of the redeemed in this verse. It is exponed as the great point or part of
the redemption itself by the apostle, Rom. xi. “The Redeemer shall come to Sion, and shall
turn away ungodliness from Jacob.” And so his end was not only to be a partaker of our nature,
but to make us partakers of the divine nature, and therefore the Father, out of his love to
this business, promised to send his Spirit to dwell in our hearts, to make the word sound in
our mouths and ears, and the Spirit to work in our hearts, and this exaltation of sinners to
the participation of the Holy Spirit, together with Christ’s humiliation to partake of our
flesh, makes up the full distance, and bringeth Christ and his church to that holy patient
impatience, and longing for the day when it shall be solemnized in heaven. The Spirit within
us says, Come, and the bride says, Come. Even so come, Lord Jesus. And he waits for nothing,
but the completing and adorning of all the rest, that there may be one jubilee for all and
for ever. Now I wish we could understand the absolute and free tenor of God’s covenant. There
is much controversy speculative about the condition of the covenant, about the promises, whether
absolute or conditional; and there is too much practical debate in perplexed consciences about
this, how to find something in themselves to fit and fashion them for the redemption. But truly,
if we would not disjoin and dismember the truth of God, but take it all entirely as one great
design of love and mercy revealed to sinners, and so conjoin the promises of the covenant into
one bundle, we would certainly find that it hath the voice of Jacob, though it seem to have
the hand of Esau; we find an absolute, most free and unconditioned sense, when there is a conditional
strain and shadow of words in some places. The truth is, the turning of souls from ungodliness
is not properly a condition exacted from us, as a promise to be performed in us, and the chiefest
part of Christ’s redemption; and though some abuse the grace of God, and turn it into wantonness
and liberty, yet certainly, this doctrine, that makes the greatest part of the glad news of
the gospel to be redemption from sin, and the pouring out of the Spirit, is the greatest persuasive
to a godly conversation, and the most deadly enemy to all ungodliness.

I thought to have spoken more of that third thing I proponed,(302) but take it in a word. This
was always proponed to the church as the strongest cordial, it was given here as the greatest
consolation in all their long captivity, that this Redeemer was afterwards to come, whose virtue
was then living, and present to the quickening and comforting of souls. It was thought enough
to uphold in a most desperate strait, “To us a child is born,” Isa. ix. 6. I wish we could
take it so. Certainly it was the character of a believer before Christ’s coming, that he was
one that was looking and waiting for the salvation of Israel, by this Redeemer. But now we
are surrounded with consolation before and behind,—Christ already come, so that we may in joy
say, Lo! this is our God, we have waited for him! others waited and longed, and we see him,—and
Christ shortly to come again without sin, to our salvation. And what could be able to take
our joy from us, if we had one eye always back to his first coming, and another always forward
to his coming again?

Sermon XV.

    Isaiah lxiv 6, 7.—“But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our
    righteousnesses are as filthy rags,” &c.

This people’s condition agreeth well with ours, though the Lord’s dealing be very different.
The confessory part of this prayer belongeth to us now; and strange it is, that there is such
odds of the Lord’s dispensations, when there is no difference in our conditions; always we
know not how soon the complaint may be ours also. This prayer was prayed long before the judgment
and captivity came on, so that it had a prophecy in the bosom of it. Nay, it was the most kindly
and affectionate way of warning the people could get, for Isaiah to pour forth such a prayer,
as if he beheld with his eyes the calamity, as already come. And indeed it becometh us so to
look on the word, as if it gave a present being to things as certain and sensible as if they
were really. What strange stupidity must be in us, when present things, inflicted judgments,
committed sins, do not so much affect us, as the foresight of them did. Love Isaiah! Always,(303)
as this was registrate for the people’s use, to cause them to still look on judgments threatened,
as performed and present, and anticipate the day of affliction by repentance; and also to be
a pattern to them, how to deal with God, and plead with him from such grounds of mercy and
covenant-interest: so it may be to us a warning, especially when sin is come to the maturity,
and our secure backsliding condition is with child of sad judgments, when the harvest seemeth
ripe to put the sickle into it.

There is in these two verses, a confession of their own sinfulness, from which grounds they
justify God’s proceeding with them, they take the cause upon themselves, and justify him in
his judging, whether temporal or spiritual plagues were inflicted. In this verse,(304) they
take a general survey of their sinful estate, concluding themselves unclean, and all their
performances and commanded duties, which they counted once their righteousness: and from this
ground, they clear God’s dealing with them, and put their mouths in the dust; and so from the
Lord’s judgment they are forced to enter into a search of the cause of so much sin; and from
discovered sin, they pronounce God righteous in his judgment. Perceiving a great difference
in the Lord’s manner of dealing with them, and their fathers, they do not refound(305) it upon
God, who is righteous in all his ways, but retort it upon themselves, and find a vast discrepance
between themselves and their fathers, verse 5. And so it was no wonder that God’s dispensation
changed upon them. God was wont to meet others, to show himself gracious, even to prevent strokes,
but now he was wroth with them. Nay, but there is good cause for it. They rejoice and wrought
righteousness, but we have sinned. And this may be said in the general,—never one needeth to
quarrel God for severe dealing. If he deal worse with one than with another, let every man
look into his own bosom, and see reason sufficient; yea, more provocation in themselves than
others. Always in this verse, they come to a more distinct view of their loathsome condition.
Anybody may wrap up their repentance in a general notion of sin, but they declare themselves
to be more touched with it, and condescend on particulars, yet such particulars as comprehend
many others. And in this confession, you may look on the Spirit’s work, having some characters
of the Spirit in it.

I. They take a general view of their uncleanness and loathsome estate by sin; not only do they
see sin, but sin in the sinfulness of it and uncleanness of it.

II. They not only conclude so of the natural estate they were born in, and the loathsomeness
of their many foul scandals among them; but they go a further length, to pass as severe a sentence
on their duties and ordinances as God hath done, Isa. i. and lxvi. The Spirit convinceth according
to scripture’s light, and not according to the dark spark of nature’s light; and so that which
nature would have busked(306) itself with as its ornament, that which they had covered themselves
with as their garment, the duties they had spread, as robes of righteousness, over their sins
to hide them; all this now goeth under the name of filthiness and sin. They see themselves
wrapt up in as vile rags as they covered and hid: commanded duties and manifest breaches come
in one category. And not only is it some of them which their own conscience could challenge
in the time, but all of them and all kinds of them, moral and ceremonial, duties that were
most sincere, had most affection in them, all of them are filthy rags now, which but of late
were their righteousness.

III.  There is an universality, not only of the actions, but of persons; not only all the peoples
or multitudes’ performances are abomination; but all of them, Isaiah, and one and other, the
holiest of them, come in in this category and rank—“we are all unclean,” &c. Though the people,
it may be, could not join holy Isaiah with themselves, yet humble Isaiah will join himself
with the people, and come in, in one prayer. And no doubt, he was as sensible of sin now, as
when he began to prophesy; and growing in holiness, he must grow also in sense of sinfulness.
Seeing at the first sight of God’s holiness and glory, he cried “unclean,” &c. Isa. vi. 5,
certainly he doth so now, from such a principle of access to God’s holiness, which maketh him
abhor himself in dust and ashes.

IV. They are not content with such a general, but condescend to two special things, two spiritual
sins, viz. omission, or shifting of spiritual duties, which contained the substance of worship.
“None calleth on thee,” few or none, none to count upon, calleth on thee; that is, careth for
immediate access and approaching unto God in prayer and meditation, &c. Albeit external and
temple-duties be frequent, yet who prayeth in secret? or if any pray, that cannot come in count,
the Lord knoweth them not, because they want the Spirit’s stamp on them.    This must be some
other thing than the general conviction of sin which the world hath, who think they pray all
their days; here people, who though they make many prayers, Isa. i., yet they see them no prayers,
and no calling on God’s name now.

V. To make the challenge the more, and the confession more spiritual and complete, there is
discovered to them this ground of their slackness and negligence in all spiritual duties, “None
stirreth up himself to take hold on thee.” Here is the want of the exercise of faith: faith
is the soul’s hand and grip, John i. 12; Heb. vi. 18; 1 Tim. vi. 12; Isa. xxvii. 5. Nobody
awaketh themselves out of their deadness and security, to lay hold on thee. Lord, thou art
going away, and taking good-night of the land, and nobody is like to hold thee by the garment;
no Jacobs here, who will not let thee go, till thou bless them; none to prevail with thy Majesty,—every
one is like to give Christ a free passport and testimonial to go abroad, and are almost Gadarenes,
to pray him to depart out of their coasts. There is a strange looseness and indifferency in
men’s spirits concerning the one thing necessary. Men lie by and dream over their days, and
never put the soul’s estate out of question; none will give so much pains, as to clear their
interest in thee, to lay hold on thee, so as they may make peace with thee. Now, can there
be a more ample and lively description of our estate, both of the land and of particular persons
of it? Since this must not be limited to the nation of the Jews, though the prophet spake of
the generality of them, yet, no doubt, all mankind is included in the first six verses; and
any secure people may be included in the seventh verse, for Paul applieth even such like speeches
(Rom. xi. 13.) that were spoken, as you would think, of David’s enemies only. Yet the Spirit
of God knowing the mind of the Spirit, maketh a more general use of their condition, to hold
out the natural estate of all men out of Christ Jesus.

But there are in these two verses other two things beside the acknowledgment of sin:

I. The acknowledgment of God’s righteousness in punishing them, for now they need not quarrel
God, they find the cause of their fading in their own bosom. They now join sin and punishment
together, whereas in the time of their prosperity they separated punishment from sin; and in
the time of their security in adversity they separated sin from punishment: at one time making
bare confession of sin, without fear of God’s justice, at another time fretting and murmuring
at his judgments, without the sense of their sin. But now they join both these, and the sight
and sense of God’s displeasure maketh sin more bitter, and to abound more, and to appear in
the loathsome and provoking nature of it, so that their acknowledgment hath an edge upon it.
And again, the sight and sense of sin maketh the judgment appear most righteous, and stoppeth
their mouth from murmuring. In the time of their impenitency under the rod, their language
was very indifferent, Ezek. xviii. 2. But it is not so now, ver. 5. The fathers have done righteousness
in respect of us, and thou wast good unto them; but we are all unclean, and have sinned, and
so we are punished.

II. They find some cause and ground in God of their general defection; not that he is the cause
of their sin, but in a righteous way he punished sin with sin. God hid his face, denied special
grace and influence; and so they lie still in their security, and their sin became a spiritual
plague. Or this may be so read,—None calleth on thy name, when thou didst hide thy face from
us, and when thou didst consume us because of our iniquities; and so it serveth to aggravate
their deep security, that, though the Lord was departing from them, yet none would keep him
and hold him. Though he did strike, yet they prayed not; affliction did not awake them out
of security, and so the last words, “Thou hast consumed us,” &c., are differently exponed and
read. Some make it thus, as it is in the translation, “Thou hast hid thy face,” and left us
in a spiritual deadness, that so there might be no impediment to bring on deserved judgment.
If we had called on thee, and laid hold on thee, it might have been prevented, we might have
prevailed with God, but now our defence is removed, and thou hast given us up to a spirit of
slumber, and so we have no shield to hold off the stroke,—thou hast now good leave to consume
us for our sins. Another sense may be—Thou hast suffered us to consume in our iniquity, thou
hast given us up to the hand of our sins. And this is also a consequent of his hiding his face.
Because thou didst hide thy face, thou lettest us perish in our sins; there needeth no more
for our consumption, but only help us not out of them, for we can soon destroy ourselves.

First, Sin is in its own nature loathsome, and maketh one unclean before God. Sin’s nature
is filthiness, vileness, so doth Isaiah speak of himself, chap. vi. 5, when he saw God’s holiness;
so doth Job abhor himself, which  is the affection which turneth a man’s face off a loathsome
object, when he saw God, Job xl. 4, and xlii. 6. Look how loathsome our natural condition is
holden out by God himself, Ezek. xvi. You cannot imagine any deformity in the creature, any
filthiness, but it is there. The filthiness and vileness of sin shall appear, if we consider
first that sin is a transgression of the holy and spiritual command, and so a vile thing, the
commandment is holy and good, Rom. vii.  And sin violateth and goeth flat contrary to the command,
1 John iii. 4.  When so just and so equitable a law is given, God might have exacted other
rigorous duties from us, but when it is so framed that the conscience must cry out, All is
equity, all is righteous and more than righteous, thou mightest command more, and reward none.
It is justice to command, but it is mercy to promise life to obedience, which I owe,—what then
must the offence be, against such a just command, and so holy?  If holiness be the beauty of
the creation, sin must be the deformity of it, the only spot in its face.

Secondly, Look upon sin in the sight of God’s holiness and infinite majesty, and O how heinous
will it appear! and therefore no man hath seen sin in the vileness of it, but in the light
of God’s countenance, as Isa. vi. 5, Job. xl. and xlii.  God is of purer eyes than to behold
iniquity, he cannot look on it, Hab. i. 13.  All other things beside sin, God looketh on them
as bearing some mark of his own image, all was very good, and God saw it, Gen. i. and ii. Even
the basest creatures God looketh on them, and seeth himself in them, but sin is only God’s
eyesore, that his holiness cannot away with it, it is most contrary unto him, and as to his
sovereignty, it is a high contempt and rebellion done to God’s Majesty. It putteth God off
the throne, will take no law from him, will not acknowledge his law, but, as it were, spitteth
in his face, and establisheth another god.  There is no punishment so evil, that God will not
own as his work, and declare himself to be the author of it, but only sin, his soul abhorreth
it, his holy will is against it, he will have no fellowship with it, it is so contrary to him:
contradicteth his will, debaseth his authority, despiseth his sovereignty, upendeth his truth.
There is a kind of infiniteness in it, nothing can express it but itself no name worse than
itself to set it out, the apostle can get no other epithet to it, Rom. vii. 13, than “sinful”
sin, so that it cometh in most direct opposition unto God.  All that is in God, is God himself,
and there is no name can express him sufficiently.  If you say God, you say more than can be
expressed by many thousand other words. So it is here—sin is purely sin, God is purely good
and holy, without mixture, holiness itself, sin is simply evil, without mixture, unholiness
itself.  Whatever is in it, is sin, is uncleanness.  Sin is an infinite wrong, and an infinite
and boundless filthiness, because of the infinite person wronged. It is an offence of infinite
Majesty and the person wronged aggravateth the offence, if it be simply contrary to infinite
holiness, it must be, in that respect, infinite unholiness and uncleanness.

Thirdly, Look upon the sad effects and consequences of sin,—how miserable, how ruinous it hath
made man, and all the creation, and how vile must it be!

I. Look on man’s native beauty and excellency, how beautiful a creature! But sin hath cast
him down from the top of his excellency, sin made Adam of a friend an enemy, of a courtier
with God an open rebel.  Was not man’s soul of more price than all the world, so that nothing
can exchange it? Yet hath sin debased it, and prostituted it to all vile filthy pleasures,
hath made the immortal spirit to dwell on the dunghill, feed on ashes, catch vanities, lying
vanities, pour out itself to them, serve all the creatures—whereas it should have made them
servants, yea, a slave to his own greatest enemy, to the ground he treadeth upon.  O what a
degenerate plant!  It was a noble vine once in paradise, but sin hath made it a wild one, to
bring forth sour grapes. What is there in all the world could defile a man?  Matt. xv. 20.
Nothing that goeth out or cometh in, but sin that proceedeth out of the heart. Man was all
light, his judgment sinned into his affections, and through all the man, but sin hath made
all darkness, closed up the poor captive understanding, hath built up a thick wall of gross
corrupted affections about it, so that light can neither get in nor out.  The soul was like
a clear running fountain, which yielded fresh clear streams of holy inclinations, desires,
affections, actions and emptied itself in the sea of immense Majesty from which these streams
first flowed, but now it is a standing putrified puddle, that casteth a vile stink round about,
and hath no issue towards God. Man was a glorious creature, fit to be lord over the work of
God’s own hands, and therefore had God’s image in a special manner, holiness and righteousness,
God’s nature. A piece of divinity was stamped on man, which outshined all created perfections.
The sun might blush when it looked on him, for what was material glory to the glory of holiness
and beauty of God’s image! But sin hath robbed poor man of this glorious image, hath defaced
man, marred all his glory, put on an hellish likeness on him. Holiness only putteth the difference
between angels in heaven and devils in hell, and sin only hath made the difference between
Adam in paradise, and sinners on the cursed ground, Rom. iii. 23.

II. Sin hath so redounded through man unto all the creation, that it hath defiled it, and made
it corruptible and subject to vanity, (Rom. viii. 20, &c.,) so that this is a spot in all the
creature’s face,—that man hath sinned, and used all as weapons of unrighteousness, so that
now the creature groaneth to be delivered.

III. It hath brought on all the misery that is come on man, or that is to come, it hath brought
on death and damnation as its wages, and the curse of the eternal God, Gal. iii. 13, Rom. vi.
23. How odious then an evil must it be, that hath so much evil in it yea, all evil in the bosom
of it! Hell is not evil in respect of sin, for sin deserveth hell, it hath ruined man, and
made all the beautiful order of the creation to change.

IV. It separateth man from God, which is worst of all, and this is included in the text, “We
are all as an unclean thing,” or man is as a leprous man set apart, because of pollution, that
may not come to the temple, or worship God, so hath iniquity separated between God and us,
Isa. lix. 2. And O how sad a divorcement is this! it maketh men without God in the world, in
whom we live, and move, and have our being, in whose favour is life, and at whose right hand
are pleasures for evermore. Now poor man is made miserable, deprived of his felicity, which
only consisted in enjoyment of God. Sin as a thick partition wall, is come in between, enmity
also is come in, and divideth old friends, Eph. ii. 14-17, and now no heavenly or comfortable
influence can break through the night of darkness is begun which must prove everlasting. Except
the partition-wall be removed, all must wither and decay as without the sun.

V. Look on the price paid for sin, on the cleansing that washeth it away, and you may see unspeakable
deformity and vileness in it. The redemption of the soul is precious silver and gold and precious
stones will not do it,—that would be utterly contemned. “What!” saith God, “presumptuous sinner,
wilt thou give me a farthing in payment of a sum which all the world, sold at the dearest,
would not discharge?” Psal. xlix. 7, 8,  1 Pet. i. 18. It is no corruptible thing, but the
blood of the Son of God. O what must the debt be, when the price is so infinite! the Son of
God must die, nay, it is not sacrifice or offering—“Lo, I come to do thy will,” it is Christ
himself that is the ransom, Psal. xl. 6, 7. And it is not much soap or nitre, it is not much
repentance and tears that will wash away this filthiness, no, it is of a deeper dye, it is
crimson ingrained filthiness, Jer. ii. 22 and Isa. i. 16. Blood of bulls and goats cannot do
it, but only the blood of the immaculate Lamb offered up by himself, (Heb. x. 4, 5,) the blood
of Him, “who by the eternal Spirit offered up himself without spot unto God,” Heb. ix. 14.
What must sin be, that must have such a fountain opened for it? It must be strange uncleanness
when the blood of Christ only can cleanse it, Zech. xiii. 1.

“We all,” &c. Mark, first, Sin hath gone over us all, and made all mankind unclean, Rom. iii.
10, 22. Every one of Adam’s posterity is born unclean, “For who can bring a clean thing out
of an unclean?” Job. xiv. 4. Consider: How sin defaced innocent Adam, how one sin made him
so vile, and spoiled him of the divine nature, and so the root was made unclean, and the branches
must follow the root, and so are we all born and conceived in sin, Psalm li. 5. We carry in
us original corruption, flowing from the first actual sin of Adam, and this maketh poor children,
before they do good or evil, to be abominably vile in God’s sight, even as the child is set
out, Ezek. xvi. Every one cometh of evil parents, all come of Adam the rebel, what a loathsome
sight would a child be to us so described, “Cast out in the open field, to the loathing of
its person in the day it is born,” and what must it all be before God, who is of purer eyes
than to behold sin? Secondly, Unto all this we have added innumerable actual transgressions
as so many filthy streams flowing out at the members, from the inward puddle of original corruption;
and so how much more vile are we all nor infants can be, or Adam was in the day he was cast
out of paradise! And thus, Rom. iii. from verse 10, are the branches set down in word, thought,
and deed; so that all the inclinations and motions and actions of the man are only evil continually.
Every man shall find his count past counting; one day’s faults would weary you, but what will
your whole life do? Known sins are innumerable, what must unknown be? Every man’s heart is
like the troubled sea, that casteth up mire and dirt daily, and cannot be at rest. The heart
is daily flowing and ebbing in this corruption, it cometh out daily to the borders of all the
members; and there are some high spring-tides, when sin aboundeth more. When in one member
of the tongue a world of evil is, what can be in all the members? And what in the soul, that
is more capable than all the world? Well, then, every man hath sinned in Adam, and hath sinned
also in his own person, and sealed Adam’s first rebellion by so many thousand actions like
it. Every man hath approven the sin that first ruined man, and made himself much more loathsome
nor Adam was; therefore all mankind may say, “We all are as an unclean thing.” Now from all
this, we would gladly discover unto you what your condition is by sin; if the Lord would shine,
how vile would you be! Always we must declare this unto you in the Lord’s name, you are all
unclean, not only born in sin and iniquity, not only have you a body of death within you, that
hath all the members; but all these members have one time or other acted and brought forth
fruit unto death. How vile, then, must you be in God’s sight! It is a strange love that you
have to yourselves, that you cannot apprehend how God can hate you! But if he find sin in you,
wonder rather how he can look upon you; we would then have you to know this, that there can
be no fellowship between God and you in your natural estate. As men cannot inhabit a vile person’s
house, no more can God enter into your souls. There is an absolute necessity of washing, before
you can be his house and temple. Hath that one sin of Adam made that glorious person so deformed,
that he could not look on himself, but cover himself? And hath it been of so defiling a nature,
that it hath redounded in all the posterity; and, as unclean things under the law defiled all
they touched, so hath that sin subjected all the creatures to corruption? O then imagine what
an unspeakable defilement must be on us all, who are not only guilty of Adam’s sin, but of
many thousands beside! If one sin have so much loathsomeness in it, what must so many out of
number, united in one person, even as in us all? No unclean thing can enter into heaven above:
know this for a truth, you cannot see God’s face in the case you are born into. You know nothing
of sin, who wonder that any should go to hell. No, if you knew anything of sin, you would wonder
that ever God should look on such cast out in the open field in their blood.

Next, You must know the insufficiency of all things imaginable, to wash away sin’s filthiness,
except the blood of Christ. Since you are unclean, do you not ask, how shall we be washed?
Indeed many have an easy answer, and pass it lightly. The multitude know no way to cleanse
in, but the tears of repentance and mourning; and so, many think themselves clean, when they
run and pour out a tear as Esau did for the blessing. But what saith the Lord? Many think baptism
cleanseth them, but was not this people circumcised, as ye are baptized?  And Peter tells us,
it is not the washing of water, &c. 1 Pet. iii. 21. Sacrifice and offering will not do it.
This people thought, sure they had satisfied God, when they brought a lamb, &c., but all this
is abomination. Would not many of you think yourselves cleansed from sin, if you offered all
your substance, and the fruit of your body for the sin of your soul? Nay, but you must see
an absolute necessity of the opened fountain of Christ’s blood, that cleanseth from all sin.

Then we would have you abhor yourselves in dust and ashes, and see nothing in all the creation
so vile as you; look on sin in the sight of God’s face, and how unholy will it appear! There
are many sins, little ones, that in our practice pass for venal and uncontrolled; but look
on the filthy loathsome nature of all sin, and hate the least offence, for it hath a kind of
infiniteness in it, and blotteth the soul, defileth the person. How great a necessity is there
of continual application to the fountain, of dwelling beside it, that you may wash daily! 
David’s so often repeated and inculcated prayer, “Wash me, cleanse me,” &c. Psalm li., declareth
that he hath apprehended much uncleanness in sin, that it needeth so many applications of the
precious blood. And you who have come to Jesus, and are clean, O how much owe you to free grace,
that passed by you in your blood, and said, “Live, it is a time of love!” How strange is it,
that glorious Majesty cometh to own deformity, and cometh to clothe it with his own garments!
Praise the virtue of that blood, that is more precious than the blood of bulls and goats, that
can so throughly purge, as you shall have no more conscience of sin.

Unclean sinners, wash you, make you clean,—there is a fountain opened; though sin were as scarlet,
it can perfectly change the colour of it. If you wash not while the fountain is open, it will
quickly be sealed on you, and then it shall be said, when the angel sweareth by him that liveth
forever and ever, that time shall be no more, then shall it be said, “let him that is unclean
be unclean still.”  Now, cleansing is offered in the gospel,—if you will love your loathsomeness
so well, as not to dip yourselves in this fountain, then let the unclean be so still. Your
repentance will never change your colour, though you should melt in sorrow: and therefore you
who have found a way to be saved otherwise nor(307) by Jesus Christ, you shall be deceived.
Your tears and mourning that you might have had, though Christ had never come into the world,
is all you use to speak of, and build your hope on; and if you speak of Christ, it is in such
terms as to buy him by such repentance; so that the truth is, you use but Christ’s name as
a shadow, you make no use of him; he needed not to have come into the world, for many of you
could have done as well without him. But as many of you as cannot find cleansing, who see filth
increase by washing, come to Christ Jesus, and say, “If you wilt, thou canst make me clean,”
Matt viii. 2. Nothing beside Jesus can do it—believe his sufficiency. Nothing beside him will
do—believe his willingness; for, for this cause he is an open fountain, that all may come and draw.

Sermon XVI.

    Isaiah lxiv. 6, 7.—“All our righteousnesses are as filthy rags,
    and we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind,
    have taken us away.”

Not only are the direct breaches of the command uncleanness, and men originally and actually
unclean, but even our holy actions, our commanded duties. Take a man’s civility, religion,
and all his universal inherent righteousness,—all are filthy rags. And here the church confesseth
nothing but what God accuseth her of, Isa. lxvi. 8, and chap. i. ver. 11, 12, 13, &c. This
people was much in ceremonial and external duties; and therefore they cried, “The temple of
the Lord, the temple of Lord!” as if this would have outcried all their other sins; therefore
were they proud, and lords in their own estimation, and innocent, Jer. ii. 31, 35. They thought
the many good services they did to God might compense all their wrongs, Mic. vi. 6, 7. They
gave a price to justice for their sins, even a confession of it, by offering a lamb, &c. and
a purpose to amend. But, lo! what sense the prophet hath of all this, “Lord, all our righteousnesses”
are filthy likewise. Albeit we have paid the debt of sins with duties, yet now we see all these
are sins themselves, and must have another sacrifice; so that all matter of boasting is now
removed, and we are stript naked of all righteousness. We covered our filthiness before with
duties, now both the one and the other is filthy. We would look upon two sorts of righteousnesses,
the natural man’s, and the converted man’s, upon the one’s civility and fair profession, and
upon the other’s real or true grace in discharge of duties, and we shall find good reason to
conclude both the one and the other under filthiness, so that there is no ground of boasting,
no inherent righteousness can make us accepted before God.

First, then, Whatever men can do from natural principles, all the flower and perfection of
men’s actions, both civil and religious, is but abominable before God, as long as their persons
are unjustified. Every performance is defiled by the uncleanness of the person; and therefore
God heareth not sinners, (John viii.,) that is, unjustified sinners; though they pray much,
yet God heareth them not. And this is lively expressed by Hag. ii. 12, 13, 14. As the priest’s
holy garments and flesh could not make bread or pottage holy, but the unclean body could make
these unclean; so this nation’s and people’s performances and holy duties, could not make them
holy, and their persons clean, but their unclean persons and actions made all their performances
unclean. The solemn meeting and sacrifice, &c. could not make them accepted, but their unclean
persons made their solemn meetings and religious duties vile and abominable in God’s sight:
and thus to the unclean all things are unclean, even their mind and conscience, Tit. i. 15.
The unbelieving man, who is born unclean, and defiled with so much original corruption, and
so many actual transgressions, defileth all things he toucheth. As a dead body, or a leprous
garment, under the law, made all unclean it touched, and nothing could make it holy by touching
of it; so all your civility, all your profession, will never contribute to the cleansing of
your person; and your persons shall defile all your most clean actions. God loveth not that
stock of Adam, and all that groweth on it must be hateful; he is only well-pleased in Jesus
Christ, and with those who are transplanted out of rotten Adam into the true vine Jesus. It
is such fruit only that can be acceptable; therefore, until you be sprinkled with clean water,
and made clean according to the new covenant-way, you cannot please God. Believe this,—your
sins and your duties are one, your oaths and your prayers are in the same account with God.
What have you then to build upon, when all this is removed? You must once he stript naked of
all coverings; and will not your nakedness then be great? The Pharisee went away unjustified,
and the poor repenting sinner justified. What was the reason? There are not many of you have
such a fair venture for heaven as he had,—so many prayers, fastings, alms, to ground your hope
on. Nay, but all this would never justify his person, because once he was unclean, come of
Adam, and had contracted more uncleanness, and all that is like the leprous garment, defiling
all that cometh near it; so that whatever hath any dependence on a son of Adam, must contract
filthiness. Now, I ask your consciences, have you so many specious coverings to adorn yourself
with? Is not your outside spotted, and not so clean as the young civil man and the religious
Pharisee? Certainly no; and yet you have no other ground to plead the acceptation of your persons
upon, but only this, your prayers and tears, or some such duty performed by you. Well, all
is uncleanness, since your persons were once unclean,—no soap nor nitre can wash it, no holy
flesh make it holy, no good wishes nor duties can make it acceptable. Did not this people think
of their duties as much as you do? and had more reason so to do; for our congregations have
not so much form of godliness as they had, and yet God solemnly protested to them that all
their works were defiled, even those which they took to wash themselves with. So your repentance
and tears must be as filthy as the sin you would wash by it.

Secondly, The uncleanness of men’s practice maketh unclean performances. Unclean hands maketh
unclean prayers, Isa. i. 15. When men go on in sin, and use their members as instruments of
unrighteousness against God, and guiltiness is above their head unrepented of and unpardoned,
then whatever the members act for God in religious duties, it must be also abominable; for
will God take prayers from such a mouth, that cursing cometh out of? Isa. iii. 10, 11, 12.
Shall sweet water come out of one fountain with bitter? Or can a fig-tree bear both thistles
and grapes? Certainly, profane conversation must make unclean profession; and therefore your
coming to the church and ordinances, your praying in your families, or such like, must of necessity
be defiled, since out of the same mouth cometh cursing, railing, lying, filthy speeches. Your
tongues are so often employed in God’s dishonour, to blaspheme his name, to slander your neighbours,
to reproach the saints, that all your prayers must be of the same stamp, and as bitter as the
other stream of your actions. When you stretch forth your hands to make many prayers, to take
the bread and wine, shall not God hide his face from such hands as are unclean with many abominations,
some murdering, some abusing their neighbours, some sabbath breaking, some filthiness? How
oft have your hands and feet served you to evil turns? And therefore, your good turns will
never come in remembrance. Nay, believe it, you cannot be heard of God, while you cover any
offence. And this I may say in general, even to the saints; any known sin given way to, and
entertained without controlment, without wrestling against it, hindereth the acceptation of
your solemn approaches. If your heart regard iniquity, shall God hear? Psal. lxvi. 18. No,
believe it, the least sin that you may judge at first venial, and then give it toleration and
indulgence, shall separate between God’s face and you. Your prayers are abomination, because
of such an idol perked up in the heart beside God, that getteth the honour and worship due
to him, and God must answer you according to it, Ezek. xix. 1, 3, 4. God will not be inquired
of such as give allowance to sin, Ezek. xiv. 2-4. And, on the other hand, no sin, how great
and heinous soever, can hinder God’s gracious acceptation, when souls fly unto Jesus and turn
their back upon sin, or giveth it no heart allowance. And to the multitude I say, all that
you do or touch in a duty must be defiled, because your whole way is unclean, Hag. ii. 12-14.
Think you to sin all the week through, and worship God on the Sabbath? Will you lie, swear,
commit adultery, rail and curse, and come and stand before me, saith the Lord? No, certainly,
you cannot be accepted. And will you hate reformation in your lives, and yet take his covenant
in your mouth, and call yourselves by his name, “Christians?” And shall not God challenge you
for that, as much as for your swearing, and cursing, and lying, &c.? Indeed the Lord putteth
all in one roll, and you need not please yourselves in such things, Psal. i. 16; Jer. vii.
9, 10; for it is all one to you to go to tavern to drink, and come to the sermon,—to blaspheme
God’s name, and call on it; because the profanity of the one defileth the other, and the holiness
of the other cannot make you holy.

Thirdly, The natural man’s performances want the uprightness, reality, and sincerity that is
required. It is but a painted tomb, full of rottenness within; it is but a shadow without substance,
for he wanteth the spiritual part of worship, which God careth for, who will be worshipped
“in spirit and in truth,” John iv. 24. Now, what is it that the most part of you can speak
of, but an outside of some few duties, soon numbered? You hear the preaching, and your hearts
wander about your business. You hear, and are not so much affected as you would be to hear
some old story or fable told you. A stage play acted before this generation would move them
more than the gospel doth; so that Christ may take up this lamentation, “We have piped to you,
and you have not danced; lamented to you, and you have not mourned.” You use to tell over some
words in your prayers, and are not so serious in any approach to God, as in twenty other things
of the world. Whatever you plead of your heart’s rightness, and have recourse to it, when your
conversation cannot defend you, yet your hearts are the worst of all, and have no uprightness
towards God; for you know that what duties you go about, it is not from an inward principle,
but from education, or custom, or constraint. Are you upright, when you are forced, for fear
of censure, to come here, or to pray at home? Is that sincerity and spiritual worship? And
for the more polished and refined professors, you have this moth in your performances, and
this fly to make your ointment to stink, that you do much to be seen of men. Therefore, what
little fervour of spirit is in secret duties, there you may measure your attitude and your
life. And O! how wearisome, how lifeless are secret approaches! You would not have many errands
to God, if you thought no body looked upon you. And for spirituality, it is a mystery in all
men’s practice. Who directeth his duty to God’s glory? If you get some flash of liberty, you
have your desire; but who misseth God’s presence in duties, which a world will approve? Who
go mourning as without the sun, even when you have the sunshine of ordinances, and walk in
the light of them?

And, Fourthly, Though your performances had uprightness of heart going along, and much affection
in them, yet all are filthy, because of want of faith in Jesus Christ. When you make your duties
a covering of your sins, and think to satisfy God’s justice for the rest of your faults, by
doing some point of your duty, then it cannot choose but be polluted in his sight. And this
very thing was the cause of God’s rejecting the Jews’ righteousness, even because they did
not look to the end of the mystery, Christ Jesus: did not pull by the vail of ceremonies, to
see the immaculate Lamb of God slain for sin; and therefore doth the Lord so quarrel with them,
as if he had never commanded them to do such things, Isa. i. 12, 13, “Who hath required these
things at your hands? Bring no more vain oblations;” all is abomination. Even as God should
say to you, when you come to the church, Who required you to come? Who commanded you to come
to hear the preaching? What have you to do to pray? What warrant have you to communicate? All
your praying, hearing, communicating, is abomination; who commanded you to do these things?
Would you not think it a foolish question? You would soon answer, that God himself commanded
you, and will he not let us do his bidding? Indeed this people, no doubt, have said so in their
heart, and wondered what it meant. Nay, but here is the mystery,—you go about these commanded
duties not in a commanded way, and so the obedience is but rebellion. You bring offerings and
incense, and think that I am pacified when you bring alms,—you judge you have given me a recompence;
whereas, all that is mine, and what pleasure have I in these things? I never appointed you
sacrifices for this end, but to lead you into the knowledge of my Son, which is to be slain
in the fulness of time, and by one offering to perfect all. I commanded you to look on Jesus
Christ slain, in the slain Lamb, and so to expect remission and salvation in him; but you never
looked to more nor the ceremony, and made that your saviour and mediator; and therefore it
is all abomination. When you slay a lamb, and offer incense, it is all one thing as to cut
off a dog’s neck, or kill a man. So may the Lord say to this generation, I command you to pray,
to repent and mourn for sin, to come and hear the word; but withal you must deny all these,
and count yourselves unprofitable servants; you must singly cast your soul’s burden on Christ
Jesus. But now, saith the Lord, who commanded your repentance? For when you sit down to pray,
or come in public to confess sin before the congregation, you think you are washen. When you
have said, you have sinned, and if you come to the length of tears and sorrow, O then, sure
you are pardoned, though in the meantime you have no thought of Jesus Christ, and know no use
of him! Therefore, saith the Lord, who commanded you to do these things? You think you have
satisfied for your sin, when you pay a penalty; but who requireth this? I will reckon with
you for these, as well as the sins you pray and mourn for, because you do not singly look to
Christ Jesus. Now, if he had never come to the world, your ground of confidence would not fail
you; for you might have prayed as much, mourned and confessed, and promised amendment; and
so you pass by the Son of God, in whom only the Father is well-pleased. Think, then, upon this,—whatever
you make your righteousness, there needeth no other thing to make it filthy, but to make it
your righteousness. Your confidence in your good heart to God, prayer day and night, and such
like, is the most loathsome thing in God’s eyes. Except you come to this, to count your prayers,
as God doth, among your oaths; to count your solemn duties among profane scandalous actions,
as the Lord doth, Isa. i. and lxvi. 3, then certainly, you do adorn yourselves with them, and
cover your nakedness of other faults with such leaves as Adam did, but you shall be more discovered.
Your garment is as filthy as that it hideth, even because you make that use of it to hide your
sin and cover it.

Next, The Lord’s children have no ground of boasting either, from their own righteousness;
the holiest saint on earth must abhor himself in dust and ashes, and holy Isaiah joineth himself
in with a profane people. When he cometh to God to be justified, he cometh among the ungodly,—he
bringeth no righteousness with him, he cometh in among them that work not. Now, you shall find
good ground why it must be so:

I. There are ordinarily many blemishes in our holiest actions, spots upon our cleanest garments;
often formality eateth up the life of duties, and representeth a body without a soul in it.
You sit down to pray out of custom, morning and evening; and if there were no more to prove
it, this may suffice. When pray you but at such times? You have an ordinary, and go not by
it. No advantage is taken of providence, no necessity constraineth when occasion offereth;
and so it is like the world’s appointed hours. How great deadness and indisposition creepeth
in! so that this is the ordinary complaint; yea, all prayers are filled with it,—scarcely any
room for other petitions, because of the want of frame for prayer itself. The word is heard
as a discourse, and on whom hath it operation to stir up affections, either of joy or of trembling?
Christians, you come not to hear God speak, and so you meet with empty ordinances—God is not
in them. How often do crooked and sinister ends creep in, and bias the spirit! Men ask, to
spend on their lusts, and to satisfy their own ambition. Some would have more grace to be more
eminent, or to have a more pleasant life; and this is but the seeking to spend on your lusts.
If affection run in the channel of a duty, it is often muddy, and runneth through our corruptions:
liberty in duties is principled with carnal affection and self-love. Will not often the wind
of applause in company fill the sails, and make your course swifter and freer nor when you
are alone? And often much love to a particular(308) maketh more in seeking it. And that which
is a moth to eat up and consume all our duties is conceit and self-confidence in going about
them, and attributing to ourselves after them. It is but very rare that any man both acted
from Jesus Christ as the principle, and also putteth over his work on Christ singly as the
end. Alas! too often do men draw out of Christ’s fulness, and raise up their own glory upon
it, and adorn themselves with the spoils of his honour; for we use to pray from a habit of
it, and go to it as men acquainted with it, and when we get any satisfaction to our own minds,
O how doth the soul return on itself, and goeth not forward as it goeth! It is so well pleased
with itself, when it getteth liberty to approach, that it doth not put all over on Jesus, and
take shame to itself. As long as there is a body of death within, holiness cannot be pure and
unmixed; our duties run through a dirty channel, and cannot choose but contract filth. While
sin lodgeth under one roof so near grace, grace must be in its exercise marred; and therefore
the holy apostle must cry, Rom. vii. 19. “The good that I would, I do not: but the evil which
I would not, that I do,” and verse 24, “O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from
the body of this death?”

II. Though there were not such blemishes and spots in the face of our righteousness, yet it
is here in a state of imperfection, and but in its minority, and so must be filthy in the Lord’s
sight. It was perfect holiness, according to the perfect rule of God’s law, that Adam was to
be justified by, according to the covenant of works; exact obedience, not one wanting,—or else
all that can be done, came short of righteousness: one breach bringeth the curse on. All obedience,
if there be a failing in a little, will not bring the blessing on: he that doth all, liveth;
and he that doth not all, is cursed. And therefore, Christians, all you do cannot commend your
persons to God, for if he examine you by the rule of the law, O how short will the holiest
come! Paul and Isaiah dare not come into such a reckoning; neither is all obeyed, nor any in
the measure and manner commanded. And therefore, you might cry down all your performances,
when you could challenge them with no particular blot, with this—all is short of the command,
and infinitely short. I have been aiming at holiness so long, I have stretched out my strength,
and what have I attained? It may be, I have outstripped equals, and there seemeth to be some
distance between me and others; nay, but the command is unspeakably more before me nor I am
before others. I have reached but a span of that boundless perfection of holiness; it is but
a grain weight of the eternal weight of grace, and I must forget it, and stand before God,
as if I had lost mind of duties, appear in his presence as if I had attained nothing; for the
length that is before my hand drowneth up all attainments.

III. Nay, but put the case were man perfect, yet should he not know his soul, but despise his
life: the Lord putteth no trust in his servants, and his angels he chargeth with folly, and
the heavens are not clean in his sight; how then must man be abominable, that hath his foundation
in the dust, and drinketh in iniquity like water? How should God magnify him? or he be righteous
that is born of a woman? Job xxv. 4, 6; xv. 14, 15; and iv. 18, 19. Job was a great length
in the sight of his own vileness and God’s holiness, when he saw this, “Though I were perfect,
yet I would not know it, but despise it; I would not answer him, though I were righteous,”
chap. ix. 14, 15, 21. So unspeakably pure and clean is his holiness, that all created holiness
hath a spot in it before his, and evanisheth, as the stars disappear when the sun riseth, which
seem something in the darkness. The angels’ holiness, the heaven’s glory, is nothing to him,
before whom the nations are as nothing; so that it is all the wonder of the world, that ever
God stooped so far below himself, even to righteous Adam, as to make such a covenant with him,
to account him righteous in obedience. “What is man that thou shouldst magnify him? When I
look to the heavens, and the sun, the work of thine hands, Lord, what is man?” What is innocent
man in his integrity, that thou shouldst magnify him, to give him a place to stand before thee,
magnify him to be a party-contractor with thy glorious Majesty? Psalm viii. 4-6. But now, when
this covenant is broken, it is become impossible to a son of Adam ever to stand before God
in his perfection, for, how should man be righteous that is born of a woman? Job xv. 14. Since
we once sinned, how should our righteousness ever come in remembrance? Therefore hath God chosen
another way to cover man’s wickedness and righteousness both, with his own righteousness, his
Son’s divine human righteousness, which is so suited in his infinite wisdom for us. It is a
man’s righteousness, that it may agree with men, and be a fit garment to cover them; it is
God’s righteousness, that it may be beautiful in God’s eyes, for he seeth his own image in
it. And it is not the created inherent righteousness of saints glorified, that shall be their
upper garment, that shall be their heaven and glory-suit, so to speak. They will not glory
in this, but only in the Lamb’s righteousness for evermore. Saint-holiness must have a covering
above, for it cannot cover our nakedness; and all the songs of those that follow the Lamb make
mention of his righteousness, even of his only. The Lamb is the light and sun of the city,
the Lamb is the temple of it; in a word, he is all that is beautiful and glorious. Every saint
hath put on the Lord Jesus, and is perfect through his comeliness. At least, if the holiness
of spirits of just men made perfect be the glorious habit above; yet all the beauty and glory
of it is from Christ Jesus, whose image it is, and the Spirit whose work it is. It shall be
still true, all—all our righteousness, as ours, is filthy; and all holiness, as it hath a relation
to us, cannot please God. It must be spotted before his pure eyes; but only it is accepted
and clean, as it is Christ’s and the Spirit’s, as it is his own garment put upon us, and his
own comeliness making us perfect. It is not so much the inherent cleanness of the Saints’ robes
that maketh them beautiful in his eyes, as this, that they are washed in the blood of the Lamb,
Rev. vii. 14.

Now, from all this we would speak a word to two sorts of you. First, There is one great point
of religion that is the principal and foundation of all other, even free justification by faith
in Jesus, without our own righteousness; and the most part stumble here in the entry. It is
the greatest obstruction of souls coming to Christ Jesus, even the ignorant and blind conceit
and fancy that almost every man hath of himself and his own performances; the world will not
make many believe the half of the evil of themselves that is spoken in the word. If you have
a general conviction of sinfulness and misery, yet you think to help it. If you sin, you use
to make amends, run to your prayers and repentance to give God a recompence, and satisfy your
own consciences. Speak now, is not this the way you think to be saved? I shall do what I can,
pray and mourn for sin; and what I am not able to do, God must forgive; you will do all you
are able or can, and God’s mercy must come in to supply the want of your righteousness. But
this is to put a new piece of cloth in an old garment, to make the rent worse. Many of you
have no other ground of confidence in the world, nothing to answer the challenge of conscience
or satisfy justice, but this,—I repent, I am sorry, I mourn, I shall amend, I resolve never
to do the like again. Now, then, from this ground we would declare unto you, in the Lord’s
name, you are yet unclean, both in persons and actions unjustified, because you have no other
covering but your own duties and performances: and let these be examined, and weighed in the
balance of the sanctuary, and they will be found light. All your righteousness, saith the Lord,
is filthiness; you are unclean, you cannot deny, both by birth and education,—you have often
defiled yourselves with sins, you must confess. Now, I ask you, How will you cover that uncleanness
and nakedness? How will you hide it from God’s eyes and your own consciences? You know no way
but this,—I will pray, I will repent and amend. So then you cover yourself with prayer, with
sorrow and tears, and a resolution of amending. This, then, is all your covering and ornament,—something
done by you, as many will make the wings of two good works stretch themselves out so far as
to cover and hide a multitude of offences between them. Therefore I declare, in the Lord Jesus
his name, unto you, whose conscience must go along in the acknowledgment and owning of your
case, that you have covered yourselves with your own righteousness, that you have taken as
filthy rags to cover your nakedness and sin with, as your sins are, and so you have made an
addition to your uncleanness, you are more unclean by your prayers and repentance than before;
and so God is of more pure eyes than to look graciously on such as you are. You have gone about
to establish your own righteousness, and have not known the righteousness of God, and so you
have come short of it; you are yet persons in a state of enmity,—God is your judge, you are
rebels. It concerns you much to heed this well, to judge of your own actions and persons as
God judgeth of them; for if God shall judge one way, and you judge another way, you may be
far mistaken in the end. If you have so good an opinion of yourselves and your duties, that
you can plead interest in God for them, and absolve yourselves from such grounds; and if God
have not the same judgment, but rather think as evil of your prayers as of your cursing, and
abhor the thing that satisfieth you, will it not be dreadful in the end? For his judgment shall
stand, and you will succumb in judgment, since you crossed God’s mind. Therefore we would have
you solidly drink in this principle of religion;—that man is so unclean, and God so abhorreth
him, that whatever he doth or can do, it cannot make him righteous; that no good action can
make him acceptable, and take away the uncleanness of the evil actions; and that any sinful
action taketh away all the cleanness of the good actions. Once believe this,—if I should sweat
out my life in serving God, and never rise off my knees, if I should give my body to the fire
for the truth, if I should melt away in tears for sin, all this is but filthy rags, and I can
never be accepted of God for all that, but the matter of my condemnation groweth,—if I justify
myself my own mouth proves me perverse: God needeth no more but my good deeds to condemn me
for, in all justice: and therefore it is a thing impossible,—I will never put forth a hand,
or open a mouth upon that account any more. I will serve God, because it is my duty, but life
I will not expect by my service; when I have done all, it is wholly mercy that I am accepted,
my good works shall never come in remembrance; I resolve to be found, not having my own righteousness.
I will appear among the ungodly sinners, as one that hath no righteousness, that I may be justified
only by faith in Jesus Christ. I say, drink in this truth, and let it settle in your hearts,
and then we would hear numbers cry, “O what shall I do to be saved?”

Now, Secondly, As for you who have fled unto Christ’s righteousness only, and have cast away
your own as dung and dross, as filthy rags; as you have done right in the point of justification,
judge so likewise after it. We would exhort you to judge so of your best actions that are the
fruits of the Spirit, judge so of them as you have a hand in them.

“All our righteousness.” Mark, Isaiah, a holy prophet, joineth himself in with the multitude.
And the truth is, the more holiness, the more humility and self-abasing; for what is holiness,
I pray you, but self-denial, the abasing of the creature, and exalting of Christ Jesus? This
is the cross that the saints must all bear, “Deny yourself, and follow me.” Grace doth not
swell men above others; it is gifts, such as knowledge, that puffeth up; charity or love puffeth
not up. Men are naturally high-minded, for pride was the first sin of Adam, and grace cometh
to level men, to make the high mountains valleys for Christ’s chariot; it maketh men stoop
low to enter the door of the kingdom. Therefore, if you have attained any measure beyond others,
if you would prove it real grace and holiness, do not exalt yourselves above others, be not
high-minded, come down and sit among the ungodly, among the unclean, and let not grace given
diminish the low estimation of yourself in yourself. There is a growing that is but a fancy,
and men’s conceit; when men grow above ordinances, above other Christians, and can see none
or few Christians but themselves, such a growth is not real. It is but fancy, it is but swelling
and wind, and must be pricked to let it out. A holy prophet came in among an unclean people;
he did not say, “Stand by, I am holier than thou.” Such a man as can find no Christian about
him, even though to the judgment of all others, they seek God more than he, such a man hath
not real solid grace,—his holiness is profane holiness, and proud holiness; for true holiness
is humble holiness, and in honour preferreth others.

There is a great fault among those who have fled to Christ’s righteousness in justification,
that they use to come full from duties, as a stomach from a honeycomb. Ofttimes we make our
liberty and access to God the ground of our acceptation; and according to the ebbings and flowings
of our inherent righteousness, so doth the faith and confidence of justification ebb and flow.
Christians, this ought not to be; in so doing, you make your own righteousness your righteousness
before God; for when the unsatisfaction in the point of duty maketh you question your interest
so often, is not the satisfaction of your minds in duties made the ground of your pleading
interest? Give you liberty and access, you can believe anything; remove it, and you can believe
nothing. Certainly this is a sandy foundation,—you ought to build nothing on performances,
you should be as vile in your own eyes, and think your nakedness as open, when you come nearest
God, when you have most liveliness, as when he hideth his face, and duty withereth. Will filthy
rags be your ornament? No, Christians. Be more acquainted with the unspotted righteousness
of the immaculate Lamb of God, and find as great necessity of covering your cleanest duties
with it, as your foulest faults, and thus shall you be kept still humble and vile in your own
eyes, and have continual employment for Christ Jesus. Your best estate should not puff you
up, and your worst estate should not cast you down; therefore be much in the search of the
filthiness of your holy actions. This were a spiritual study, a noble discovery to unbowel
your duties, to divide them, and to give unto God what is God’s, and take unto yourselves what
is your own. The discovery of filthiness in them needeth not hinder his praise; and the discovery
of grace in them needeth not mar your shame. God hath most glory when we have most shame; these
two grow in just proportion,—so much is taken from God as is given to the creature.

Thirdly, We would also press you from this ground to long much to be clothed upon with immortality,
to put off the filthy rags of time and earth-righteousness, and to be clothed upon with the
white robes of the righteousness of the saints. As you would dwell near the fountain here,
and be still washing your garments, and offering all your sacrifices in him who sanctifieth
all, so would you pant and thirst for this spotless garment of glory. Glory is nothing but
perfect holiness, holiness washen and made clean in the Lamb’s blood. Your rags are for the
prison and for sojourning; when you come to your Father’s house, your raiment shall be changed.
Therefore, Christians, every one of you aspire higher. Sit not down in attainments; forget
what is behind, and press forward. Let perfect holiness be in your eye and purpose, sit not
behind it. All our time-duties have much filthiness,—long for the pure stream that waters the
city above. Grace is not in its native place, it is corrupted and mixed here: heaven is the
own element of it, and there is grace without mixture. Undervalue all your performances, till
you be above, where that which is in part shall be done away, where no unclean thing entereth.

Fourthly, This likewise holdeth out to you a continual necessity of washing. You must take
up house beside the fountain opened in the house of David; and never look on any piece of inherent
righteousness, but see a necessity of dipping it in the Lamb’s blood. And therefore should
you pray always in Christ’s name, that the prayer which, of itself, would be cast as dung on
our face, may have a sweet savour from him. Cover your holiness with Christ’s righteousness,
and make mention of it only.

Sermon XVII.

    Isaiah lxiv. 6.—“And we all do fade as a leaf, and our iniquities,
    like the wind, have taken us away.”

Here they join the punishment with the deserving cause, their uncleanness and their iniquities,
and so take it upon them, and subscribe to the righteousness of God’s dealing.

We would say this much in general—First, Nobody needeth to quarrel God for his dealing. He
will always be justified when he is judged. If the Lord deal more sharply with you than with
others, you may judge there is a difference between your condition and theirs, as well as in
the Lord’s dispensation, even as this people do, ver. 5, 6. It is a strange saying, Lam. iii.
33. The Lord “doth not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men.” That is, as we conceive,
the Lord hath not such pleasure in trampling on men, as he might do on the dust of his feet.
Though he be absolute sovereign Lord of the creature, and men be but as the dust of his feet,
and he may do with his own what he pleaseth, and none ask, what dost thou? yet the Lord useth
not to walk according to his own absoluteness,—he hath another ordinary rule whereby he worketh,
a rule of justice and equity. Especially in the punishing of men, he useth not to afflict men
for his pleasure, as tyrants use to destroy their people. The Lord exerciseth his sovereignty
another way, and if he be absolute and unlimited in any thing, it is in showing mercy on men.
But in judgment, there may be still some reason gotten for it in the creature beside the will
of God; so that, to speak with reverence of his majesty, strokes are often drawn out of his
hands. He getteth so much provocation ere he strike, and holdeth off so long,—threateneth,
and giveth warning thus before strokes, as if it were against his will to lay on, as if his
heart were broken with us.

Secondly, If men knew themselves and their own sinfulness, they would not challenge God with
unrighteousness, but put their mouth in the dust, and keep silence. And it is from this ground,
that this people do not charge God. Sin is of such infinite desert and demerit, because against
infinite majesty, that God cannot go beyond it in punishment; and therefore Jeremiah, when
he is wading out of the deep waters of sore temptation and sad discouragement, pitcheth and
casteth anchor at this solid ground, “It is of the Lord’s mercy that we are not consumed,”
Lam. iii. 22. What! do I mean thus to charge God, as if he dealt rigorously? No, no: It is
his mercy that a remnant is left,—our strokes are not pure justice, our cup is mixed, mercy
is the greatest part. Whatever is behind utter destruction, whatever is below the desert of
sin, which is hell and damnation, all this must be reckoned up to mercy. That I am yet alive,
and so may have hope, this is mercy, “For why should a living man complain?” ver. 39. That
a rod is come to awake us out of security, this is mercy, for we might have slept to death.
And this wholesome counsel got Job of his friends,—to stay his murmuring and grudging at God’s
dispensations, Job. xi. 6. Why dost thou complain, Job? Know but thy sins, and there shall
be no room for complaint. Look but unto God’s secrets of wisdom, and his law, and see it is
double to what you have known,—your obligation is infinitely more than you thought upon, and
then how great and numberless must iniquities be? “Know, therefore,” saith Zophar, “God exacteth
of thee less than thine iniquities deserve.” God exacteth not according to law, he craveth
not according to the obligation, but bids write down fifty in his bill of affliction, when
an hundred are written in our bill of deserving. So then, complain not,—it is mercy that life
is saved. Are you men, and living men? Wonder at this, and wonder not that you are not wealthy,
are not honourable, seeing you are sinners: all that came on Jerusalem maketh not Ezra think
God out of bounds, chap. ix. 13. As we are less than the least of God’s mercies, and all our
goodness deserveth none of them, so is the least sin greater than the greatest of all his judgments,
and deserveth still more. Nay, if there were no more but original corruption common to men,
and the filthiness that accompanieth men’s good actions, yet is God righteous in punishing
severely, and this people acknowledge it so. You use to inquire what sin hath such a man done,
when so terrible judgments come on? Nay, inquire no more;—he is a sinner, and it is mercy there
is not more, and it is strange mercy that it is not so with you also. You use to speak foolishly
when God’s hand is upon you: I hope I have my punishment here, I hope to suffer here for my
sins. Poor souls, if God make you suffer for sins, it will be another matter. Though now your
punishment be above your strength and patience, yet it is below your sin. As sin hath all evil
in it, so must hell have all punishment in it. The torment of the gravel, racking with the
stone, and such like, are but play to hell,—these are but drops of that ocean that you must
drink out, and you shall go out of one hell into a worse; eternity is the measure of its continuance,
and the degrees of itself are answerable to its duration. There is much impatience even among
God’s children under the rod, you vex and torment yourselves, and do well to be angry.  Any
piece of thwarting dispensation, that goes cross to your humour and inclination, imbitters
your spirit against God and maketh you go cross to his providence; how often do your hearts
say, Why am I thus? What aileth the Lord at me? But, Christians, learn to study your own deservings,
and stop your mouth with that, that you may not speak against heaven. If you knew sin well,
you would not wonder at judgments, you would rather wonder that you are out of hell.  Know
what right God hath over you, and how little use he maketh of it against you. When you repine
at a little, shall it not be righteousness with God to exact more, and let you know your deserving
better? He that thinketh it rigour in God to exact fifty, it is justice that God crave an hundred.
If the law require forty stripes, and he give but one, will you not rather commend and proclaim
his clemency, than speak of his cruelty? Wonder that God hath spared us so long. Sin is come
to great maturity. As pride is said to blossom and bud into a rod, so all sins are blossomed
and budded into the very harvest, that the sickle may be put in. If we should have cities desolate,
and our land consumed, if we should take up Jeremiah’s lamentation, and our case be made parallel
to theirs, we have then been punished less than our iniquities deserved.

There are some godless people so black mouthed as to speak against heaven when God correcteth
them, they follow the counsel of Job’s wife, curse God and die. If God but touch them a little
in that which is dearest unto them, they kick against the pricks, and run hard heads with God.
As we have known some foolish women, when their only child hath been removed, blaspheme, saying,
What can God do more to me?—let him do what he can. O madness and wickedness of men! Cannot
God do more when he casteth them into hell?  Thou shalt acknowledge that it is more. Some have
left off to seek God and turned profane, because of the Lord’s correction but you should know
that all that is here is but arles.(309) If God had done his worst, you might think yourselves
out of his common, nay, but he hath yet more to do, the full sum is to be paid. It were therefore
wisdom yet to make supplication to thy judge.

But, Thirdly, Sins and iniquities have a great influence in the decay of nations and persons,
and change of their outward condition, when it is joined with the wind of God’s displeasure.
The calamity of this people is set down in excellent terms, alluding to a tree in the fall
of the leaf. We, saith he, were once in our land as a green tree busked round about with leaves
and fruit; our church and state was in a flourishing condition, at least nothing was wanting
to make outward splendour and glory. We were immovable in our own land, as David said in his
prosperity, “I shall never be moved,” so did we dream of eternity in earthly Canaan. But now
Lord, we are like a tree in the fall of the leaf, sin hath obstructed the influence of heaven,
hath drawn away the sap of thy presence from among us, so that we did fade as a leaf before
its fall, we were prepared so by our sins for judgment,—visible draughts and prognostics of
it were to be read upon the condition and frame of all spirits and people, and then did our
iniquities raise the storm of thy indignation, and that, like a whirlwind, hath blown the withering
leaves off the tree, hath driven us out of our own land, and scattered us among strangers.
Sin and uncleanness and the filthiness of our righteousness prepared us for the storm, made
us light matter that could resist no judgment, made us matter combustible, and then iniquities,
and sin rising up to iniquities, coming to such a degree, hath accomplished the judgment, put
fire among us, made us as the birk in Yule even.(310)

First, It is familiar in the Scripture that people in a prosperous condition are compared unto
a green tree flourishing, Psal. xxxvii. 35. The wicked’s prospering is like a green bay tree
spreading himself in power, spreading out his arms, as it were, over more lands to conquer
them, over more people, to subject them. And this is often the temptation of the godly, and
so doth the Lord himself witness of this people, Jer. xi. 16, “I have called thy name a green
olive tree, fair and of goodly fruit.” This was once their name, though it be now changed.
Now they are called a fading withering tree without both leaves and fruit. Now their place
doth not so much as know them, they are removed as in a moment, Psal. xxxvii. 36.  And this
comparison giveth us to understand something of the nature of human glory and pomp. The fairest
and most beautiful excellency in the world, the prosperity of nations and people, is but like
the glory of a tree in the spring or summer. Yea, the Scripture useth to undervalue it more
than so and the voice commandeth to cry, (Isa. xl. 6, 7, 8,) “All flesh is grass and the goodliness
thereof as the flower of the field: the one withereth, and the other fadeth, because the Spirit
of the Lord bloweth upon it.” A tree hath some stability in it, but the flower of the field
is but of a month or a week’s standing, nay, of one day’s standing, for in the morning the
grass is green, and the sun scorcheth it ere night, so that one sun’s course shall see it both
growing green and fading. So is the goodliness, the very perfection, the quintessence, so to
speak, and the abstract of creatures’ perfections. Outward accommodation in a world is as fading
a thing as the flower is, as smoke is, it is so vanishing that it bides but a puff of his breath
to blow it to nothing. Job hath a strange expression, “Thou lookest upon me, and I am not,”
Job vii. 8. The Lord needeth no more but stare on the most durable creature, and look it not
only out of countenance, but also look it into its first nothing—look it out of glory, out
of being; and therefore you should not trust in those uncertain things, that can take wings
and leave you. When you have accommodation outwardly to your mind do not build your nest in
it; these leaves of prosperity will not cover you always, there is a time when they will fall.
Nations have their winter and their summer, persons have them likewise, as these must change
in nature, so must they do in their lot. Heaven only is one day, one spring perpetually blossoming
and bringing forth fruit. There is the tree of life that bringeth forth fruit every month,
that hath both spring and harvest all the year over. Christians, sit not down under the green
tree of worldly prosperity, if you do, the leaves will come down about you, the gourd you trust
in may be eaten up in a night, your winter will come on so as you shall forget the former days
as if they had never been. We desire you to be armed for changes; are not matters in the kingdom
still going about? All things are subject to revolution and change, and every year hath its
own summer and winter, so hath it pleased the Lord to set the one over against the other, that
man might find nothing after him, Eccl. vii. 14. Therefore we would have you cast your accounts
so as the former days of darkness may return, and the land be covered with mourning clothes.

But would you know what is the original of the creatures’ vanity, what is the moth that eats
up the glory and goodliness of creatures’ enjoyments? Here it is—sin and iniquities. It was
sin that first subjected the creation to vanity, Rom. viii. 19, 20. This inferior world was
to have been a durable house for an immortal soul, but sin made man mortal, and the world corruptible,
and from this proceed all the tempests and disorders that seem to be in the creation. It is
this still—it is sin that raiseth the storm of the Lord’s wrath, which bloweth away the withered
leaves of men’s enjoyments. Sin drieth up all the sap and sweetness of the creature comforts,—it
maketh the leaves of the tree wither, drives the sap away to the root, hindereth the influence
of God’s blessing to come through the veins of worldly prosperity. For what is the virtue and
sap of creatures? It is even God’s blessing, and therefore the bread nourisheth not, but the
word and command of God, Matt. iv. 4. That is a right unto the creatures by Jesus Christ, when
possession of them is entered into by prayer and thanksgiving, for all right is sanctified
by these, and it is the iniquities of men that separate between God and them, Isa. lix. 2.
And when God is separated and divided from enjoyments, they must needs be empty shells and
husks, no kernel in them, for God “filleth all in all,” is all in all, and remove him, and
you have nothing—your meat and drink is no blessing, your table is a snare, your pleasures
and laughter have sadness in them. At least they are like the vanishing blaze of thorns under
a pot, and therefore, when God is angry for sin, men’s beauty consumeth as before the moth,
Psalm xxxix. 11. When God beginneth to show himself terrible, because of sin, poor man, though
of late spreading his boughs out, yet all falleth, and like ice melteth as before the sun,
which just now seemed as solid as stone. O but David was sensible of this and could speak from
much experience, Psal. xxxii. 3, 4. The anger of the Lord did eat him up, and dried his moisture.
It might be read in his countenance,—all the world could not content him, all the showers of
creatures’ dropping fatness could not keep sap in him. God’s displeasure scorcheth so, nay,
is within him, that no hiding-place is to be found in the world, no shadow of a rock among
all the creatures in such a weary land. Moses and the people knew this well, Psal. xc. 5-9.
The Lord’s displeasure carried them away, as a flood coming down carrieth all headlong with
it, it scorched them and made them wither as grass. When God setteth iniquities before him,
and that which is the soul’s secret, beginneth to imprint it in visible characters on the rod,
and writeth his sin on his punishment, then no wonder that days be spent in vanity and grief,
since they are passed over in his wrath, Job xiii. 25. Then doth a soul loathe its dainty meat,
and then doth the ox low over his fodder. Meat is laid before him, and he cannot touch it,
because of the terrors of the Almighty, and that which before he would not once touch, would
not enter into terms of communing with, as the Lord’s threatenings, he must now sit down and
eat them up as his meat, how sorrowful soever, Job vi. 4-7.

But, secondly, when sin hath prepared a man for judgment, then, if iniquity be added to sin,
this raiseth the storm, and kindleth the fire to consume the combustible matter. When sin hath
given many blows, by preparatory corrections at the root of a man’s pleasure and credit, it
will at length bring on a fatal stroke that shall drive the tree to the ground. There are some
preparatory judgments, and some consummatory, some wither the leaf, and some blow it quite
off, some make men like the harvest, ripe to put the sickle of judgment into it. The corruption
of a land, the universality of it, and formality in worshipping of God, ripeneth a land for
the harvest of judgment,—exposeth it to any storm,—leaveth it open to the Lord’s wrath, so
that there is nothing to hold his hand and keep off the stroke, but when the wind ariseth,
and iniquities have made it tempestuous, then who may stand? It will sweep away nations and
people as a flood, and make their place not to know them, so that there shall be neither leaf
nor branch left. There is often a great calm with great provocations, and iniquities cry, “Peace,
peace!” But when once the cry of it is gone up to heaven, and hath engaged God’s anger against
a people or person, then it raiseth a whirlwind that taketh all away. Now, all this belongeth
to you,—we told you the acknowledgment of sin was yours already, and a wonder it is, that the
complaint is not ours also. Always this ought to be an admonition and example to us, on whom
the ends of the world are fallen. Therefore we would declare this unto you, that sin and iniquities
have judgment in the tail. Now you sit at peace, every one in his own dwelling, and spread
forth your branches, but is there not much uncleanness among you? We would have you trouble
your carnal peace and security, trouble your ease with thoughts of this. And we have ground
to give this warning, because, if there were no more but the iniquity of our holy things—the
formality of our service—the commonness of spirit in worship, this might be enough to raise
the storm. You know not for what reasons to be afraid of judgment. Look but on original corruption,
look on the defilement of your religious actions, and then find ground sufficient of fading
away. Though now you sit still, and seem to be so settled, as you would never be moved, you
dream of an eternity here—you cleave in your hearts to your houses and lands—you stick as fast
to the world, and will not part with it, as a leaf to a tree, yet behold the wind of the Lord
may arise, that shall drive you away; take your soul from these things, and then whose shall
they be? If you will not fear temporal judgments, yet I pray you fear eternal—fear hell. May
not the Lord shake you off this tree of time, and take you out of the land of the living, to
receive your portion? There is not only an universal deadness of spirit on the land, but a
profane spirit,—iniquities, abominable sins, abound. Every congregation is overgrown with scandals,(311)
and for you, none may more justly complain. We are all unclean, sin is not in corners but men
declare their sin as Sodom, sin is come to the maturity—defection and apostacy(312) is the
temper of all spirits, and, above all, the general contempt and slighting of this glorious
gospel, is the iniquity of Scotland,(313) so that we wonder that the withered leaves yet stick
to, that the storm is not yet raised, and we blown away. Now, you are like stones—your hearts
as adamants, and cannot be moved with his threatening, the voice of the Lord’s word doth not
once move you. You sin and are not afraid, nay, but when God’s anger shall join with iniquity,
and the voice of his rod and displeasure roar, this shall make the mountains to tremble, the
rocks to move, and how much more shall it drive away a leaf? You seem now mountains, but when
God shall plead, you shall be like the chaff driven to and fro. O how easy a matter shall it
be to God to blow a man out of his dwelling place! Sin hath prepared you for it, he needeth
no more but blow by his Spirit, or look upon you, and you will not be. You who are now lofty
and proud, and maintain yourselves against the word, when you come to reckon with God, and
he entereth into judgment, you shall not stand—you will consume as before the moth; your hearts
will fail you—“who may abide the day of his coming?” It will be so terrible, and so much the
more terrible, that you never dreamed of it. If the example of this people will not move you,
do but cast your eyes on Ireland,(314) who all do fade as a leaf, and their iniquities have
taken them away out of their own land. Shall not the seeing of the eye, nor the hearing of
the ear teach you? What security do you promise to yourselves? Have not we sinned as much as
they? Were not they his people as well as we? Certainly, since God waiteth longer on you, the
stroke must be the greater: provoked patience must turn fury. If you would then prevent this
people’s complaint, go about such a serious acknowledgment of your sins. “Search your ways,
and turn again to the Lord.” And let not every man sit down in a general notion of sin, but
unbowel it until you see uncleanness, go up to the fountain head, original corruption, go down
to all the streams, even the iniquity of holy things. Let every man be particular in the search
of his own provocations personal, and every one be public in the general sins of the land,
that you may confess out of knowledge and sense, “We are all unclean,” &c.

Sermon XVIII.

    Isaiah lxiv. 7.—“And there is none that calleth upon thy name,
    that stirreth up himself to take hold on thee,” &c.

They go on in the confession of their sins. Many a man hath soon done with that a general notion
of sin is the highest advancement in repentance that many attain to. You may see here sin and
judgment mixed in thorough other(315) in their complaint. They do not so fix their eyes upon
their desolate estate of captivity, as to forget their provocations. Many a man would spend
more affection, and be more pathetic in the expression of his misery, when it is pungent, nor
he can do when he speaketh of his sins. We would observe, from the nature of this confession,
something to be a pattern of your repentance. And it is this. When the Spirit convinceth, and
men are serious in repentance, then the soul is more searching, more universal, more particular
in acknowledgment of sins. These are characters of the Spirit’s work.

First, The Spirit discovereth unto men, not only sin, but the loathsomeness of sin, its heinous
nature, how offensive it is to God’s holy eye. Many of you know abundance of evil deeds, and
call them sins, but you have never taken up sin’s ugly face, never seen it in the glass of
the holy law, uncleanness itself, because you do not abhor yourselves. Poor and low thoughts
of God make mean and shallow thoughts of sin. You should be as Job, vile, chap. xl. 4, and
abhor yourselves in dust and ashes, chap. xlii. 6. As God’s holiness grew great in your eyes,
sins uncleanness would grow proportionably, Isa. vi. 3, 5. And here your repentance halteth
in the very entry.

But, secondly, The Spirit discovereth not only the uncleanness of men’s natures, and leadeth
them up to original corruption, but the Spirit also leadeth men along all the streams, not
only those that break out, but those which go under ground, and have a more secret and subtile
conveyance. It concludeth not only open breaches of the command under filthiness, but also
all a man’s own righteousness, though never so refined, it concludeth it also a defiled garment,
so that the soul can look no where but see sin and uncleanness in its ornaments and duties.
And thus it appeareth before God without such a covering, openeth up its soul, hideth not sin
with the covering of duties, but seeth a necessity of another covering for all. Now, therefore,
let the most part of you conclude, that you have never yet gotten your eyes open to see sin
or confess it, because when you sit down to count your sins, there are many things that you
call not sin,—you use not to reckon your praying and repentance among sins. Nay, because you
have so much confidence in your repentance and confession, you have never repented. You must
see a necessity of a covering of Christ’s righteousness above all, faith in Jesus must cover
repentance and itself both, with the glorious object of it. But, alas! how soon are many at
an end of confession! some particular gross actions may come in remembrance, but no more. Sum
up all your confessions, they have never yet pitched on the thousandth part of your guiltiness,
no, not in kinds, let be in number.

But, thirdly, The spirit convinceth spiritually and particularly both, it convinceth of spiritual
sins, as we last said, of the iniquity of holy things, and especially of the most substantial
duties, faith and prayer, John xvi. 8, 9. There are not many of you have come this length,
to see your want of prayer. No, your own words do witness against you, for you use to say,
I pray day and night, I believe in God with all my heart. Now therefore, out of your own mouth
shall you be condemned. When the Spirit convinceth you of sin, you will see no faith, no prayer
at the first opening of the eyes. But I add, there is no true confession but it is particular:
the Spirit useth not to bewilder men’s spirits in a general notion only, and a wide field of
unknown sins. And such are many of your convictions. You mourn for sin, as you say, and yet
you cannot condescend on a particular that burdeneth your conscience; you grant you have many
sins, but sit down to count them, and there is a short count of them. Now, do you not reflect
back upon former humiliations in public, and former acknowledgments of sins in private? Do
you not yet return upon your own hearts to lay home this sad challenge, I have never repented,
I do not yet repent? Must not all your solemn approaches be iniquity and abomination, while
your souls are not afflicted for sin, while you can see so few sins? Is this the fast that
the Lord chooseth? No, believe it, this shall add to your provocation, and rather hasten lingering
judgment than keep it off. We would beseech you this day, pray for pardon of former abused
fasts. If you had no more to mourn for, this might spend the day and our spirits both, and
exhaust all our present supplications—even the wall of partition that stands between God and
Scotland, which all our former solemn humiliations hath built up, a great deal higher than
other sins could reach.

“There is none that calleth upon thy name.” Did not this people make many prayers (Isa. i.
15), before the captivity? And did they not cry, which noteth some fervency in it, and fast,
a little before it in Jeremiah’s time, (chap. xi. 11, and xiv. 12,) and in the time of it,
Ezek. vii. 18, Mic. iii. 4, Zech. vii. 3? How, then, is it that the prophet, now on the watch
tower, looking round about him to take up the people’s condition, and being led by the Spirit
so far as to the case of the captives in Babel, can find no prayer, no calling? And was not
Daniel so too? Dan. ix. 13. Lo, then, here is the construction that the Spirit of God putteth
on many prayers and fastings in a land, “There is none calleth on thy name,” there is none
that prayeth faithfully and fervently, few to count upon that prayeth any. It may be there
are many public prayers, but who prayeth in secret, and mourneth to God alone? There are many
prayers, but the inscription is, “To the unknown God,” to a nameless God; your praying is not
a calling on his name, as a known God and revealed in the word.

This, then, we would say unto you, that there may be many prayers in your account, and none
in God’s. There are many prayers of men that God counteth no more of than the howling of a dog.

First, The cry of men’s practices is often louder than their prayers, and goeth up to heaven,
that the cry of prayer cannot be heard. When men’s conversation is flat contrary to their supplications,
supplication is no calling on his name, but charming rather. Sodom’s abominations had a cry
up to God, Gen. xviii. 21. So Abel’s blood had a cry for vengeance, which Cain’s prayers could
not outcry. Thus the Lord would not hear many prayers, Isa. i. 15, because hands and practices
were polluted. You that know no worship of God, but in such a solemn duty, your religion is
summed up and confined within the limits of temple worship, family exercise, and prayer, certainly
the rest of your conversation must speak more. God will not hear but such as worship him and
do his will, John iv. 23. Your prayer is a dark parable, if your conversation expone(316) it
not. This I speak for this end, to put many of you out of your false ground of confidence.
You have nothing but your prayers to trust unto, and for your conversation, you never go about
it effectually to reform it, but go on in that which you pray against. We declare unto you
the truth, your prayers are abomination, Prov. xxviii. 9. The wicked may have prayers, and
therefore think not to please God and flatter him with your mouths, when your conversation
is rebellion. Since you hear not him in his commands, God will not hear you in your petitions,
Prov. i. 24, 28. You stopped your ear at his reproof, God will stop his ear at your request.
If you will go to heaven by your own righteousness, I pray you follow more after it, make the
garment more to cover your nakedness: the skirt of a duty is not sufficient.

Secondly, When iniquity is regarded in the heart, and idols set up in God’s place, God will
not own such a worship, but sendeth a man to the idols he serveth, Psal. lxvi. 18; Ezek. xiv.
9, 4. Do you not often pray to God against a corruption, when your heart cleaveth unto it,
and what your mouth saith, your heart contradicteth? Light and conscience often extort a confession
of beloved sins, while the temper of the heart hath this language, Lord, grant not my request.
And therefore, if there be a prayer for pardon of guilt, yet there is no thorough resolution
to quit the sin; and as long as a soul is not resolved to quit the sin, there can be no ingenuous
confession of it, and no prayer for removing the guilt can be heard. You cannot employ Christ
in his office of mediatorship as a Priest to intercede and offer sacrifice for sin, unless
you as sincerely employ him as a Sanctifier and Redeemer; and therefore prayer that separateth
Christ’s offices, and calleth not on whole Christ, calleth not on his name, for his name is
Lord Jesus Christ. How can the Lord be inquired of by such a one who cometh to mock him, putteth
up an idol in the heart, and yet prayeth against it, or some other sin, while he is not resolved
to quit it? Shall God be resolute to help, when we are not earnest in seeking it? No wonder
God answer you according to the idol; no wonder you be given up to serve idols, and your sin
grow upon you as a plague for your hypocrisy. When you engage your heart too much to any creature,
and come to pray and inquire of the Lord in your necessity, shall it not be righteousness with
him, to send you to your god? “When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee,” Isa. lvii.
13. O man, cry unto thy bosom-idol, and let it help thee, since thou trustest to it, and spendest
thy heart upon it! Deut. xxxii. 37, 38, “Where is the God that drank the wine of your offerings,
and did eat the fat of your sacrifices?” Where is the creature that you have made your heart
an altar to, to send up the flames of your choicest thoughts and affections to it? Let this
rise up, and help you now, saith the Lord. Therefore we exhort you, if you would have your
prayers a delight, be upright in the thing you seek, and see that you entertain no known sin,
give it no heart-allowance.

Thirdly, There are many prayers not heard, not known, because the mouth out-crieth the heart.
It is the sacrifice of the contrite heart that God despiseth not. The prayers of this people
were such, (Isa. xxix. 13,)—they drew near with the mouth, but the heart was far away. It is
worship in spirit and truth that God loveth, John iv. 23. Since prayer is a communion of God
with the creature, a meeting of one with God, and speaking face to face, God, who is a Spirit
and immortal, must have a spirit to meet with, a soul to speak to him. Now, do you not find
your hearts gadding abroad even in duty? Is it not most about your corns and lands in the time
of solemn worship? Therefore God getteth no more but a carcase to keep communion with: he may
have as much fellowship with the stones of the wall, and timber of the house, as he can have
with your ears and mouths, while you remove your hearts to attend other things. And I would
say more,—if your mind be present, yet your heart is gone; sometimes, yea often, both are gone
abroad. Sometimes the mind and thought stayeth, but the affection and heart is not with it,
and so the mind’s residence is not constant. Your thought may come in as a wayfaring man, but
tarrieth not all night, dwelleth not. Now speak to it, even Christians, may not your prayers
often have a contrary interpretation to what they pretend? You pray so coldrifely(317) and
formally, as God will interpret, you have no mind to it: we ask as we seemed indifferent whether
our petition be granted or not. Should the Lord be affected with your petitions, when you yourselves
are not affected much? Should his bowels of zeal sound within him, when yours are silent? It
is fervent prayer availeth much, James v. 16. A heart sent out with the petition, and gone
up to heaven, cannot but bring back an answer. If prayer carry not the seal of the heart and
soul in it, God cannot own it, or send it back with his seal of acceptation.

Fourthly, Many prayers are not calling on God’s name; and no wonder that when people pray,
yet the Spirit says, “None calleth on thy name;” for prayer is made, as to an unknown God,
and God is not taken up according to his “name,” which are his glorious attributes, whereby
he manifesteth himself in his word. To call on God’s name, is so to pray to God as to take
him up as he hath revealed himself. And what is the Lord’s name? Hear himself speak to Moses,
Exod. xxxiii. 19, and xxxiv. This is the order in which God proclaimeth his name. In the entry,
the supplicant should behold the glorious sovereignty and infinite distance between God and
the creature, that he may have the stamp of reverence and abasement upon his spirit, and may
speak out of the dust, as it becometh the dust of the balance and footstool to do to him who
sitteth on the circle of the heaven as his throne. And this I must say, there is little religion
and godliness among us, because every man is ignorant of God. Even God’s children do more study
themselves, and their condition, than God’s greatness and absoluteness. Who searches God’s
infiniteness in his word and works till he behold a wonder, and be drowned in a mystery? O
but the saints of old did take up God at a greater distance from the creatures; they waded
far into this boundless ocean of God’s Majesty, till they were over head and ears, and were
forced to cry out, “Who can find out the Almighty to perfection?” All these are but parts of
him, his back-parts. There is more real divinity and knowledge of God in one of Job’s friends’
discourses, one of David’s prayers, than now in twenty sermons of gracious men, or many prayers
or conferences of saints. But withal you must study his goodness and mercy, and this maketh
up the most part of his name. The definition of God hath most of this, so that it may be said
truly, that mercy is his delight. Mercy, as it were, swelleth over the rest: God were not accessible,
unless mercy did temper it. Behold then greatness to humble, and goodness to make bold, that
you may have access. As greatness should leave the stamp of reverence on your petitions, so
should mercy and goodness imprint them with faith and confidence; and that the rather, because
as Christ is said to be the Father’s face, and the image of his person, (2 Cor. iv. 6. and
Heb. i. 3,) so may he be called the Father’s name, and so doth God himself call him, Exod.
xxiii. 20, 21, The angel that went before them in the wilderness, whose voice they ought to
obey, his “name is in him;” and this angel is Christ Jesus, Acts vii. 37, 38. So then Christ
Jesus is God’s name. God, as he revealeth himself in the word, is “God in Christ reconciling
the world unto himself,” 2 Cor. v. 19. And therefore, Christians, you ought to pray always
in Christ’s name, and this is to call on his name. Not only encourage yourselves to come to
God, because of a mediator, because he is God in Christ, but also offer up all your prayers
in the name of Jesus, that his name called on them may sanctify them, otherwise your affectionate
prayers cannot be acceptable to God, for he loveth nothing but what cometh through the Son.
Prayer must have an evil savour, when it is not put in the golden censer that this angel hath
to offer up incense with the prayers of the saints. And likewise you would know God’s justice
and wrath, that you may serve in fear and trembling: and when trembling is joined with the
rejoicing of faith, this is acceptable service. You ought to fear to offend his holiness, while
you are before him. Let God’s terribleness have a deep impression on your spirit, both to make
sin bitter, and to make mercy more sweet. Thus should prayer ascend with the seal of God’s
attributes, and then it is a calling on his name. Now, is there any calling on his name among
us? Who maketh it his study to take up God in his glorious names? Therefore you call not on
a known God, and cannot name him. Now, all of you take this rule to judge your prayers by.
Think you not that you make many prayers? You both think it and say it, as you use to say,
I pray both day and night. Nay, but count after this rule, and there will be found few prayers
in Scotland, albeit you reckon up both private and public. Once scrape out of the count the
prayers of the profane and scandalous, whose practice defileth their prayers; and again, blot
out the prayers of men’s tongues and mouths when hearts are absent, and again, set aside the
formal, dwyning,(318) coldrife, indifferent supplications of saints, and the prayers that carry
no seal of God’s name and attributes on them, prayers made to an unknown God, and will you
find many behind? No, certainly,—any of you may take up the complaint in behalf of the land,
“There is none that calleth on thy name,” or few to count upon. You may say so of yourselves,
if you judge thus,—I have almost never prayed, God hath never heard my voice; and you may say
so of the land. This would be a well-spent day, if this were but our exercise, to find out
the sins of our duties in former humiliations; if the Spirit did so convince you as to blot
out of the roll of fasts all the former. If you come this length, as to be convinced solidly
that you have never yet prayed and mourned for sin,—I have lived thus long, and been babbling
all this while, I have never once spoken to God, but worshipped I know not what, fancied a
God like myself, that would be as soon pleased with me as I was with myself,—if the Lord wrought
thus on your hearts, to put you off your own righteousness, you should have more advantage
in this, than in all your sabbaths and fasts hitherto.

Although the Lord’s hand be upon them, and they “fade as a leaf,” and are driven into another
land, yet none calleth on his name. This maketh the complaint more lamentable, and no doubt
is looked upon as a dreadful sign and token of God’s displeasure, and of sorer strokes. Daniel,
an eye witness, confirmeth this foretold truth, chap. ix. 13, “All this is come upon us, yet
have we not made our prayers to the Lord our God.” Well may the Lord make a supposition and
doubt of it, Lev. xxvi. 40, 41. After so many plagues are come on, seven added to seven, and
again seven times more, and yet they will not be humbled, and when it is even at the door next
to utter destruction and consumption, he addeth, “If then their uncircumcised hearts be humbled,
and they take with the punishment of sin,” &c. We need ask no reason of this, for “bray a fool
in a mortar, his folly will not depart from him,” Prov. xxvii. 22. Poor foolish man is a foolish
man, folly is born with him, folly is his name, and so is he. He hath not so much wisdom as
to “hear the voice of the rod, and him that appointeth it.” Poor Ephraim is an undaunted heifer.
Nature is a “bullock unaccustomed with the yoke,” and so it is chastised more and more, Jer.
xxxi. 18. Man is like an untamed beast, as the horse, or as the mule. Threatenings will not
do it, “God speaketh once, yea twice, and man perceiveth it not,” Job xxxiii. 14. God instructeth
by the word, and men receive no instruction; all the warnings to flee from the wrath to come
are as so many tales to make children afraid. He saith in his heart, “I shall have peace, though
I walk in the imagination of my own heart.” Since, therefore, he will not incline his ear to
the word, God sendeth his rod to seal the word, and yet men are so wild that they fight with
God’s rods, and will not submit to him; a yoke must be put on Ephraim, a bridle in men’s mouth,
Psal. xxxii. 9. They will put God to more pains than speaking, and it shall cost them more
pain; for he that will not be drawn with the cords of a man, love and entreaties, must be drawn
with the cords of a beast, and yoked in a heavy yoke. Yet men are unruly, and the yoke groweth
the heavier and sorer that they strive to shake it off. An uncircumcised heart cannot be humbled,—“How
can the leopard change his spots? no more can my people return to me,” Jer. xiii. 23. It is
strange that a people so afflicted will not take with the punishment of their iniquity, but
will say in their heart, Wherefore come these things upon me? But here it is, how can an uncircumcised
heart be humbled? God may beat on men with rods as on a dog, but he will run away from him
still the more, Isa. ix. 13. Nay, it may be there will be more stirring after God, and more
awaking by the first stroke of affliction, than when they are continued and multiplied. The
uncouthness of rods may affect people something, but when his hand lieth on but a little, custom
breedeth hardness, and more and more alienateth spirits from him.

Now we need no more to seal this truth, but our own experience. I think never people might
speak more sensibly of it. It hath been the manner of the Lord’s dealing with us, to use fair
means to gain us, to threaten before he laid on, to give a proclamation before his stroke,
and yet it hath been our manner from our youth up to harden ourselves against him, and go on
in our own way. Therefore hath the Lord, after long patience, laid on sad strokes, and smitten
us, yet have we not turned to him. It may be, when the chastisement was fresh and green, some
poured out a prayer, and in trouble visited God, (Isa. xxvi. 16,) but the body of the land
hath not known him that smote them, and never ran into their hiding place, but the temptation
of the time, like a flood, hath carried them away with it. And for the Lord’s children, how
soon doth the custom of a rod eat out the sense of it, and prayer doth not grow proportionably
to the Lord’s rods. The Lord hath expected that some might stand in the gap and intercede,
yet few or none called on his name. General corrections of the land hath made general apostacy
from God, not a turning in to God; so that we may say, we never entered a furnace, but we have
come out with more dross, contracted dross in the fire. Men’s zeal and tenderness hath been
burnt up, reprobate silver may God call us. We have had so much experience of the unprofitableness
of former afflictions, that we know not what the Lord shall do with us. We think it may be
the Lord’s complaint of Scotland, “Why should you be afflicted any more? you will revolt more
and more,” Isa. i. 5. What needeth another rod? You are now all secure, it is true, because
you are not stricken; nay, but what needeth a rod? For it cannot awake you,—all the fruit of
it would be, not to purge away sin, but to increase it. General judgments will prove general
temptations, and will alienate you more from me, and make you curse God and the covenant. And
indeed, the truth is, we know not what outward dispensation can fall on that can affect this
generation, we know not what the Lord can have behind that can work on us. Judgment hath had
as much terror, mercies as much sweetness, and as much of God in the one and the other, as
readily hath been since the beginning of the world. Only this we know, all things are possible
to him which are impossible to us, and if the Spirit work to sanctify the rod, a more gentle
rod shall work more effectually; his word shall do as much as his rod.

The case we are now into is just this—“None calleth on thee.” It is a terrible one, whether
our condition be good or bad outwardly. Our peace hath put us asleep, and the word cannot put
men to prayers. Now, the Lord hath begun to threaten, as you have been still in fear of new
troubles, and a revolution of affairs again, yet I challenge your own consciences, and appeal
to them,—whom hath the word prevailed with to put to prayer? Whom hath the rumour of approaching
trouble put to their prayers? Whose spirit hath been affected with God’s frowning on the land?
And this yet more aggravateth your laziness, in the time that God doth show terrible things
to his people in Ireland, giveth them a cup of wormwood, and to drink the wine of astonishment,
are not you yet at ease? When your brethren and fellow-saints are scattered amongst you as
strangers,(319) yet your hearts bleed not.

Well, behold the end of it,—your case is a sad prognostic of the Lord’s hiding his face and
consuming us; nay, it is a sure token that his face is hid already. When Job’s friends would
aggravate his misery, they sum it up in this, “thou restrainest prayer from God.” It is more
wrath to be kept from much praying, not to be scattered, from your own houses. Therefore, if
you would have the cloud of God’s anger, that covereth the land with blackness, go over you,
and pour out itself on others; if you would prevent the rod, hearken to the word, and stir
up yourselves to much prayer, that you may be called his remembrancers. O how long shall prayer
be banished this kingdom! The Lord’s controversy must be great with us, for since the days
of our first love there has been great decay of the spirit of prayer. The children of God should
be so much in it, as they might be one with it. David was so much in prayer, as he in a manner
defined himself by it, Psal. cix. 4, “I give myself unto prayer.” In the original, there is
no more but “I prayer.” I was all prayer. It was my work, my element, my affection, my action.
Nay, to speak the truth, it is the decay of prayer that hath made all this defection in the
land. Would you know the original of many a public man’s apostacy and backsliding in the cause
of God, what maketh them so soon forget their solemn engagements, and grow particular, seeking
their own things, untender in seeking the things of God?—would you trace back the desertion
up to the fountain-head? Then come and see. Look upon such a man’s walking with God in private,
such a man’s praying, and you shall find matters have been first wrong there. Alienation and
estrangement from God himself, in immediate duties and secret approaches, hath made men’s affections
cool to his interest in public duties. And believe it, the reason why so few great men or none
are so cordial, constant, and thorough in God’s matters is this,—they pray not in secret; they
come to parliament or council where public matters concerning the honour of God are to be debated,
as any statesmen of Venice would come to the senate. They have no dependence on God to be guided
in these matters; they are much in public duties, but little in secret with God. Believe it,
any man’s private walking with God shall be read upon his public carriage, whether he be minister
or ruler.

There is yet another thing we would have you consider, to endear this duty unto you, and bind
upon your consciences an absolute necessity of being much in it, and it is this. Prayer and
calling on his name is often put for all immediate worship of God, especially the more substantial
and moral part of service. This people was much in ceremonials, and they made these their righteousness;
nay, but there was little secret conversing with God, walking humbly with him, loving him,
believing in him. Well, then, prayer is, as it were, a compend and sum of all duties; it contains
in it, faith, love, repentance; all these should breathe out in prayer. In a word, if we say
to you, be much in prayer, we have said all, and it is more than all the rest, because it is
a more near and immediate approach to God, having more solid religion in it. If you be lively
in this, you are thriving Christians; and if you wither here, all must decay, for prayer sappeth
and watereth all other duties with the influence of heaven.

“That stirreth up himself to take hold on thee.” This expresseth more of their condition under
the rod, and while God was threatening to depart and leave them. None took so much notice of
it, as to awake out of his dream, to take a fast hold of God. It was but like the grip a man
taketh in his slumbering, that he soon quitteth in his sleep; none awaketh himself, as a bird
stirreth up itself with its wings to flight; none do so spread out their sails to meet the
wind. This importeth a great security and negligence, a careless stupidity. To take hold, to
grip strongly and violently, importeth both faith acted on God, and communion with God; so
that the sense is, nobody careth whither thou go,—there is none that stirreth up himself to
take violent hold of thee. Men lying loose in their interest, and indifferent in the one thing
necessary, do not strongly grip to it. Nobody keepeth thee by prayer and intercession; so that
there is no diligence added to diligence, there is no stirring up of ourselves in security.

First, When the Lord seemeth to withdraw, and when he is angry, it is our duty to take hold
the more on him; and not only to act faith, and call on him by prayer, but to add to ordinary
diligence,—it should be extraordinary.

I. Then, I say, when the Lord is withdrawing and seemeth angry, we ought not to withdraw from
him by unbelief, but to draw near, and take hold on him. And the Lord giveth a reason of this
himself, Isa. xxvii. 4, 5, “because fury is not in me.” It is but a moment’s anger, it is not
hatred of your persons but sins, it is not fury that hath no discretion in it, no difference
between a friend and an enemy; it is but at least a father’s anger, that is not for destruction
but correction. The Lord is not implacable. Come to him and win him,—“Let him take hold of
me, and let him make peace with me, if he will make peace.” He is a God whose compassions fail
not; and so he is never so angry, but there is room left for manifestation of mercy on those
that come to him. God’s anger is not an humour and passion as ours is, he can take the poor
child in his arms, admit it into his bosom, when outward dispensations frown. Men’s anger is
like the sons of Belial, briers and thorns, that none may come near to, lest they be hurt;
but God angry, is accessible, because his anger is still tempered and mixed with clemency and
mercy; and that mixture of mercy is so great and so predominant in all his dispensations here,
that they being rightly understood, might rather invite to come, than scare from it. There
is more mercy to welcome, than anger to drive away. Look upon the very end and purpose of God’s
hiding himself, and withdrawing,—it is this; that we may come and seek him early, Hosea v.
15. When God is angry, mercy and compassion principleth it, for anger is sent out to bring
in wanderers. His anger is not humour, but resolute and deliberate, walketh upon good grounds,
because David in his prosperity missed not God. When all things went according to his mind,
then he let God of where he will; therefore, the Lord in mercy must hide his own heart with
a frowning countenance, and cover himself with a cloud, that David may be troubled, and so
take hold on God, Psalm xxx. 7, 8. Since, then, this is God’s purpose, that you may come nearer
to him, and since he goeth away that you may pursue; certainly he will never so run away as
you may not find him out, nor will he run farther nor he strengtheneth thee to pursue him;
thus, Psalm lxiii. 8, God was flying and David pursuing; nay, but the flyer giveth legs to
the pursuer, he upholdeth him, as it were against himself: so did the angel strengthen Jacob
to overcome himself. Now, shall it not be pleasant to God, that you lay hold on him as your
own, even when he seemeth to be clothed with vengeance, seeing he changeth his outward countenance
for this very end? He seemeth to go, that you may hold; because when you think he stayeth,
you hold not; as the child, while the nurse is near, will look about it, and take hold of any
thing; but when she withdraweth, the child cleaveth the faster to her.

But, II. We ought to stir up ourselves more now than any other time: times of God’s withdrawing
calleth for extraordinary and doubled approaches. So Hos. v. 15, “They will seek me early.”
And therefore the Lord’s children in Scripture have made great advantage of such dispensations.
The truth is, as long as we are well dealt with, security creepeth on, and religion is but
in a decaying condition. Duties are done through our sleep; we are not as men awaking and knowing
what we do, and whither we go. But when the Lord beginneth to trouble us, and hides his face,
then it is time to awake out of sleep, before all be gone: and there ought to be, 1. More diligence
in duties and approaching to God, because your case furnisheth more matter of supplication;
and as matter of supplication groweth, prayer should grow. If necessity grow, and the cry be
not according to necessity, it is ominous. And therefore David useth to make his cry go up
according to his trouble. In a prosperous condition, though every thing might call a tender-hearted
loving Christian to some nearness to God; yet ordinarily, if necessity press not, prayer languisheth
and groweth formal. Sense of need putteth an edge on supplication, whereas prosperity blunteth
it. The heart missing nothing, cannot go above sublunary things; but let it not have its will
here, and the need of heaven will be the greater. Now I say, if you sit so many calls, both
from a command, and from your own necessities, you do so much the more sin. Affliction will
make even a hypocrite seek him, and pour out a prayer and visit him, Psalm lxxviii. and Isa.
xxvi. And if you do not take advantage of all these pressures, you must be so much the more
guilty; and therefore God, as it were, wondereth at their obstinacy, “They return not to him
that smiteth them!” All this is come upon us, yet have we not prayed. And, 2. It is sent for
that end, that you may be more serious; and therefore you ought so much the more to awake,
to lay hold on him. This is the way the Lord useth with his secure and wandering children,
Psalm cxix. 67. For the Lord findeth us often gripping too strongly to a present world, and
taking it in our arms, as if we were never to part with it. Men’s souls cleave to outward accommodations;
therefore the Lord useth to part us and our idol, that we may take hold of him the faster.
It is union with himself that is our felicity, and it is that which God most endeavoureth.
When he removeth beloved jewels, it is because they were a stumbling-block, and divorced the
soul from God: when he seemeth to withdraw himself his going proclaimeth so much, oh! follow,
or perish.

III. It is a very dangerous thing when he withdraweth and you follow not, when he is angry
and you care not, do not fly in to make peace with him. Certainly his anger must wax hotter,
and desertion will become a spiritual plague; rods must be tempered with much bitterness. What
mixture of mercy can be in such a dispensation, where the fruit of it is to harden? But if
the Lord’s hardest dealing wrought you to more nearness and communion with himself; then certainly
you have a fair advantage against the present trouble, and you have your cup mixed. You shall
at length bless God for such dispensations; they may be reckoned for good to you.

Next, there ought to be more exercise of faith, and laying hold of the grounds of consolation
in God in such a time. 1. For as difficulties grow, faith should fortify itself against them
so much the more. The greater the storm be, it should fly the more into the chambers. Faith
in the time of a calm day getteth no trial; faith bulketh much(320) because it hath not much
to do. But except there be some fresh and new supplies, it cannot hold out in a temptation.
But it is a singular proof of a noble and divine faith,—that it can lay hold on him and keep
him when he would go,—that can challenge kindness on a miskenning Jesus,(321) —that can stand
on the ground of the promises when there is not a foot-breadth of a dispensation to build on.
While all things go with you ye have no difficulty to maintain your faith; nay, but when the
Lord seemeth to look angry, then awake and gather strength, and take hold on his strength.
Look what is in your condition or his dispensation, what is good or ominous, then take hold
on the other hand on him, and look what is in him to answer it, and swallow it up. Ye ought
to be well acquainted with the grounds of consolation that are in God, in the worst case, and
then ye might lay hold on him though he seemed a consuming fire. It is then a time that calleth
most for securing your interest in him, a time when there is no external advantage to beguile
you, a time when the only happiness is to be one with God. Therefore the man who, in such calamities
and judgments, is not awakened to put his eternal estate out of question, he is in a dangerous
case. For, do not most part drive over their days, and have no assurance of salvation, they
dare not say either pro or contra. It may be, and it may not be. And this is the length that
the most part come,—a negative peace; no positive confidence; no clear concluding, on sure
grounds, an interest. Always ye are most called to this, when God afflicteth the land or you:
if ye do not then make peace it is most dangerous. 2. The Lord loveth faith in a difficulty
best,—it is the singlest and the cleanliest, it is that which most honoureth him, and glorifieth
his truth and faithfulness, and sufficiency and mercy; for then it is most purely elevated
above creatures, and pitcheth most on God; and therefore bringeth men to this, “No help for
my soul, but thou art my portion.” And this commendeth God most when he is set alone. Prosperity
bringeth him down among creatures, and secure faith maketh little distinction; but awakening
faith grippeth strongly and singly, putteth God alone.

Secondly, Oftentimes, when God is departing, none stirreth up himself to lay hold on him. Although
there may be praying and doing of many duties, yet there is nothing beyond ordinary. The varieties
and accessions of new grounds of supplications doth neither make greater frequency nor more
fervency. This our experience may clear unto us both in duties and faith.

I.  There is very little diligence in seeking of God in the way and means appointed, even when
God seemeth to bid farewell to the land, and go away. Nobody cometh in as an intercessor. Men
keep on their old way of praying, and never add to it, come what like. Who is it that riseth
above his ordinary, as the tide of God’s dispensation is? There ought to be such an impression
made by the changes of God’s countenance as might be read on the duties of his people. There
should be such a distance between your ordinary and such times as between a sleeping man and
a waking man, that whatever your attainment of access to God be, ye might stir up and go beyond
it according as matters call.  Will God count your public fasts a performance of this duty?
Alas, we fast sleeping, and none stirreth up himself to these things! Is there any difference
betwixt your solemn humiliation and another Sabbath? And is there any difference between a
Sabbath and a week-day, save the external duty? Is not this palpably our case? Is there any
wakening among us? No, security is both the universal disease and complaint; and it is become
an incurable disease since it became a complaint. Doth any of you pray more in private than
he used?

II. There is no up-stirring to faith among us, and laying hold on Jesus Christ, albeit all
his dispensations warn us that it is now high time. There are not many who are about this point,
effectually to stir up their faith or to secure their interest. Think ye that conjectures will
carry you through difficulties? The multitude think they believe much, but any temptation proveth
their mistake. The most part of Scotland would deny God and his Son Jesus Christ, if they were
put to it. Always it is a time ye would not lie out from your stronghold,—faith only uniteth
you to Christ, and if ye would be kept in any trial, stir up faith.

Thirdly, Prayer and faith, diligence and laying hold on God, must go together and help one
another. Not calling on his name, and not laying hold on him go together, and have influence
one upon another.

I. Faith hath influence on prayer. Laying hold on God in Christ will make right calling on
his name, it learneth men how to call God, to call him Abba, Father. Faith useth to vent itself
in prayer. I say, much consideration of God, and claiming into him, and to the grounds of confidence
in him, must both make prayer acceptable, and carry the stamp and impression of God’s name,
or Christ’s name, on it, and also make much prayer: for when a soul hath pitched on God as
its only felicity, and thus made choice of him, it findeth in him all sufficiency, all things
for all things. There is no necessity, but it findeth a supply in his fulness for it; and therefore
it applieth a man to the fountain, to draw out of the wells of salvation. There is nothing
can be so sweet and refreshing as for such a soul to pour out itself every day in him, to talk
with him face to face. Faith engageth the heart to come to God with all things; whereas many
difficulties would have been, and the secure or unsettled heart would have gone as many different
ways to help them. Faith layeth hold on God, knoweth but one, and bringeth all here; and therefore
access to God is a fruit of it, access unto the grace wherein we stand by faith. And again,
how can prayer be acceptable as long as faith doth not principle it? It is but like a beast’s
groaning under a burden. Laying hold on God himself makes a man’s duties acceptable, because
he speaks and asks; believing that he shall receive, he trusteth God and doth not tempt him.
Where lively faith is not entertained there cannot be much affection which is the oil of the
wheels. There may be in some bitterness of spirit much vehemency; but that is not a pure flame
of divine love that burneth upward to him; and it is soon extinguished, and lasteth no longer
nor present sense, and then the soul groweth harder, as iron that had been in the fire.

II. When there is not much prayer and calling, faith cannot lie strong and violent; for prayer
is even the exercise of faith, if you wear out of that, faith rusteth.  There may be much quietness
with little prayer, but there cannot be much, and strong and lively faith, for where it getteth
not continual employment it fags. And indeed prayer is a special point of holding God fast,
and keeping him, therefore join these, if ye would thrive in anyone of them. Your unbelieving
complaints are not prayers and calling on his name, because they are not mixed with faith.
As the apostle said of the word, so may it be said of prayer,—your prayers are not profitable,
are not heard, because not mixed with faith. Ye use to doubt, that ye may be fervent, to question
your interest, that ye may stir up your spirits to prayer. But alas! what a simple gross mistake
is that? Poor soul, though thou get more liberty, shall it be counted access to God? Though
you have more grief, and your bitterness doth indite more eloquence, shall God be moved with
it? Know ye not that you should ask without wavering, and lift up pure hands without wrath
and doubting? And yet both are there.

Fourthly, The duty we are called to in such a time when God is angry, is to lay hold on him.
We would speak a word more of it. We ought to hold a departing Lord, by wrestling with him
in supplication, not to let him depart till he bless, Hos. xii. 3, 4. The application of Jacob’s
victory over the angel is thus, “Turn ye to the Lord, and wait on him,” &c. How had Jacob power
over the angel? By supplication and weeping, so that prayer is a victory over God, even the
Lord God of hosts. We ought, as it were, to strive against outward dispensation, when it saith,
He is gone, when our condition saith, He is gone, or going, we ought to wrestle with it. No
submission to such a departing, I mean, no submission that sitteth down with it, and is not
careful how it be. Now this time calleth you to such an exercise. The Lord seemeth to be angry
with us. There is a strong cloud over the land, and like to pour down upon us—the Lord is drawing
a sword again, and beginning now to lay on. Many threatenings would not put us to supplication.
Now, what will the laying on of the rod do? If the former days be returning wherein ye saw
much sorrow, is it not then high time for the Lord’s remembrancers, and for the Lord’s children
to wrestle with God? As Esau was coming on Jacob, so hath God armed men, and such desperate
men, as he hath made a rod to us before. If we be twice beaten with it, it is very just, for
before we did not seek in to him who smote us.(322) You would know this, that the Lord is but
seeking employment, and if ye would deal with him, ye may make advantage of the present and
future calamities.  And look to this laying hold on him, this is the chief thing ye should
now heed. It is God himself that should be your principal object. Praying should be a laying
hold on God, it should meet with himself. For the most part in the time of prosperity, we cannot
meet with God singly, we have so much to do with creatures, we keep trysts so punctually with
them, so that we cannot keep with God. We have so many things in our affections and thoughts,
that God cannot get place, he cannot get us at leisure for the throng of our business, we lose
God by catching at shadows. Well then, we are called in such a time of difficulty to come in
to God himself, to draw by the vail of ordinances, that we may have communion with God himself.
And this is right praying, when the soul getteth such immediate access to God, as it were,
to handle him, and see him, and taste him, to exercise its senses on him. Ordinances have been
of a long time a covering of his face, and he useth not now to unvail himself in the sanctuary,
and let us see his glory God is departed from preaching and praying, and the solemn meeting,
so that we meet not with God,—we lay hold on a shadow of an outward ordinance, but not on God
himself. Therefore, Christians, make advantage of this time. You may be brought to want ordinances,
then lay hold on himself who is the substance and marrow of them. You may be denuded of outward
comforts and accommodation here, then lay hold on himself in much prayer. If affliction would
blow away the cloud on his face, or would scatter our idols from us, and make us single alone
with God, as Jacob was, it were well sent.

II. Your exercise should be to take hold on God by faith.  1. Ye would make peace with God,
be much in direct acts of apprehending God himself in Jesus Christ. And this is according as
ye take up yourselves with your own misery and necessity. Do but travel continually between
your own misery and something answerable in God.

The first thing we would have you do, now when God frowns upon us, is to find out your own
lost condition, and how great strangers you have been to him, even when ye have approached
in many ordinances, and find a necessity of making peace with God and atonement. Now from this
day hold on Christ, as the hope set before you. Look upon that in him which will answer all
your necessities, and be suitable to them. It is not matters of outward lot that should go
nearest your heart. Let the world go where it will, that which concerneth you most in such
a time, is the securing of your soul, for if you lose it, what gain you? what keep you? Your
houses, and lands, and lives may be in hazard, nay, but one thing is more worth than all these,
and in more hazard. Begin at spiritual things, and ask how matters stand between God and thee.

2. Not only would ye be much in immediate application unto Jesus Christ, but ye would so take
hold of him, as ye may be sure ye have him. Make peace, and know that ye have made it, and
then shall ye be kept in perfect peace. You would never rest until you can on solid grounds
answer the question. And this duty is called for from you at such a time, for “the just shall
live by faith,” in a troublesome time, Hab. ii. 4. And as ye ought to keep and hold fast confidence
and not cast it away in such a time, so should ye all seek after it. Do not only rest in this,—I
know not but I may belong to Christ, I dare not say against it. O no, Christians, you should
have positive clear grounds of assurance “I am his, and he is mine,” “I know that my Redeemer
liveth,” “God is my portion.” And if ye conclude this solidly, I defy all the world to shake
and trouble your peace this is perfect peace, “peace, peace,” double peace. How can ye choose
but be shaken at every blast of temptation, when you are not thus solidly grounded, when you
hold not at your anchor?

And, 3. Having thus laid hold on Christ as your own, lay hold on all in him as yours, and for
your use. Whatever difficulty the present time or your own condition afford, search but as
much in God as may counterbalance it. Answer all objections, from his mercy, goodness, power,
wisdom, unchangeableness, and this shall be more nor the trouble. God himself laid hold upon,
and made ours, is more nor removing a temporal calamity. It is an eternal weight, to weigh
down all crosses and disappointments. For what can present things be? Is there not in the favour
of his countenance that which may drown them in oblivion? Are ye like to sink here? Is not
God a sure anchor to hold by? And if ye do not this, your trouble is nothing in respect of
the danger of your soul. Secure and loose lying out of God, not putting this matter to a full
point, is worse nor all your outward fading. Therefore, we exhort you in the Lord’s name, to
fly into this name of the Lord, as a strong tower to run to and be safe. When the Lord seemeth
now to be angry with us, run not away from him, though he should yet clothe himself with vengeance
as a garment.

But, first, O ye poor people, who have never asked this question, whether have I any interest
in Jesus? ask it now, and resolve it in time. If trouble come on, if scattering and desolation
come on, and our land fade as a leaf, certainly the Lord’s anger will drive you away, What
will ye do in the time of his indignation? All of you, put this to the trial,—how matters stand
between God and you.

And, secondly, If ye find all wrong, do not sink in discouragement, all may be amended, while
it is seen wrong in time. Nay, God taketh away outward accommodation, to make you more serious
in this. And it is the very voice of rods,—every one fly into your hold, every one make peace
with me. You may take hold, and do it feckfully.(323)

Thirdly, You who have fled to Jesus, take more hold of him, you are called also to renew your
faith, and begin again. Make peace with God, let your confidence be kept fast, and thus shall
ye be immoveable, because he changeth not. God will not go from you if ye believe—hold him
by faith. Christ could not do great things in Galilee because of their unbelief, and so he
departed from them. As unbelief maketh an evil heart to depart from the God of all life and
consolation, so doth it make God depart from us. But faith casteth a knot upon him (to speak
with reverence), it fasteneth him by his own word and promise, and he cannot go by it. It is
a violent hand laid on God. “I will not let thee go till thou bless me.”

Fourthly, Faith and prayer, or holding of God, by believing in him, and much employing him
needeth much stirring up unto, and awaking. “That stirreth up himself to take hold on thee.”
Security is the moth of both these, and eateth out the life of faith and supplication; it maketh
prayer so coldrife that it cannot prevail, and faith so weak that it cannot use violence.

I. Security apprehendeth no evil, no need. A secure condition is a dream that one is eating
and yet his soul is empty. Look how the people of Laish were quiet and secure, apprehending
no evil; destruction cometh then on as an armed man. Always it is much necessity that administers
fuel to a man’s faith and supplication. David says, (Psal. xxx. 7,) “I said in my prosperity,
I shall not be moved.” Nay, but many say in adversity, and cry Peace, peace, where no peace
is. Security pleadeth innocency, and then believeth immunity. “I am innocent, therefore shall
his anger turn away,” Jer. ii. 31. Security applieth not sin, and so refuseth the curse of
sin and wages of it. And thus is a man in his own eyes a lord, and then he will come no more
to God, Jer. ii. 31. It is almost impossible to awake men, by general judgments, to apprehend
personal danger, and men never stir out of their nest till it be on fire. We can behold, or
hear of our neighbours, spoiling and violence done to them, but till the voice of a cry be
heard in our own streets and fields, nobody will take the judgment to themselves. It is well
said, that which is spoken to all, is spoken to none, so what is done to all in general, is
done to none. The voice of a general rod speaketh not particularly, and maketh not men apprehensive
of sad things, and thus men are not pressed unto prayer—are not put out of themselves, it is
only necessity that saps the roots of it, and makes it green.

II. Security is lazy and not active, putteth not forth its hand to work, and so dieth a beggar,
for only the hand of the diligent maketh rich. Laying hold on God is a duty that requireth
much spirit in it; men do not grip things well in their slumbering. There is no duty that needeth
so spiritual and lively principles. If a man do not put on such a piece of resolution and edge
upon him, he cannot come to the wrestling of prayer and violence of faith. Although the exercise
and acting of grace dependeth more upon the Spirit of God’s present influence, than upon the
soul of man, yet this is the way the Lord communicateth his influence, by stirring up and exciting
the creature to its duty, as if it could do it alone. Grace is one thing, and the stirring
up of it is another thing. For when we lie by and sleep over our time, and go not about the
matter so seriously as it were life and death, it is but a weak hold we can take of God. According
to the measure of a man’s apprehending necessity, and according to the measure of his seriousness
in these things, so will the hand of faith grip, and lay hold with more or less violence. As
a man drowning will be put from sleeping, and when one is in extreme hazard all his strength
will unite together in one to do that which at any ordinary time it could not do, so ought
it to be here. A Christian assaulted with many temptations should unite his strength, and try
the yondmost.(324) O but your whole spirits would run together, to the saving of yourselves,
if ye were very apprehensive of necessity! The exercise of faith is a dead grip, that cannot
part with what it grippeth. Therefore, 1. We must say to you, it is not so easy a thing as
you believe, to lay hold on God,—there must be stirring up to it. And when the Lord speaketh
of our stirring ourselves, certainly he meaneth this likewise, that he must stir us, ere we
stir ourselves. 2. Above all, be afraid of a secure condition: it is the enemy of communion
with God and spiritual life. Therefore, look about you, and apprehend more your necessity,
and then give no rest and quietness to yourself, till you have employed and engaged him, be
as men flying to lay hold on the refuge set before you. 3. It must be a time of little access
to God, and little faith, when we are all secure, and nobody goeth about religion as their
work and business. We allow ourselves in it, therefore, we do exhort yon, first, To purpose
this as your end to aim at, and purpose by God’s grace to take more hold of God. There is little
minding of duty, and that maketh little doing of it. Once engage your hearts to a love and
desire of more of this, come to a point of resolution, I must know him more, and trust more
in him, be more acquaint with him. And, secondly, Put yourselves in the way of duty. It is
God that only can stir you up, or apply your hearts to the using of violence to God, but ye
would be found in the outward means much, and in these ways God will meet with you, if you
wait on him in them.

“For thou hast hid thy face from us.” Here is the greatest plague, a spiritual plague. The
last verse was but the beginning of sorrows, “We all do fade,” &c. But lo, here the accomplishment
of misery, God hiding his face, and consuming them in the hand of their sins.

First, The Lord’s hiding of his face, and giving up a people to melt away in their sins, punishing
with judicial blindness and security, is the worst judgment, it filleth the cup full. This
complaint goeth on still worse, and certainly it is worse nor their fading as a leaf and exile
out of their land. It is not without reason, that great troubles and afflictions are so expressed,
“Thou didst hide thy face,” as David said, “Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled,”
importing as much, as it is not trouble that doth trouble, but God’s hiding of his face that
maketh trouble. It is in so far trouble, as it is a sign of his displeasure, and as the frowns
of his countenance are upon it, therefore, the saints, aggravating their affliction, say, “Thou
hidest thy face.” You know the face is the place wherein either kindness or unkindness appeareth.
The Lord’s countenance, on face, is a refreshful sweet manifestation of himself to a soul,
it is the Lord using familiarity with a spirit, and this made David more glad than corn and
wine. Now, the hiding of the face, the withdrawing of his countenance, is, when the Lord in
his dispensation and dealing doth withhold the manifestation of himself, either in life or
consolation, when he covereth himself with clouds round about, that neither can a soul see
into the backside of it—into his own warm heart, nor can the sun beams shine through to quicken
and refresh the soul. The Lord draweth over his face a vail of a crossing dispensation, or
such like.

There is a desertion of the soul in the point of life and spiritual action, and there is a
desertion in regard of consolation. The varieties of the Lord’s desertions run upon these two.
As a Christian’s life is action or consolation, and the Lord’s influence is either quickening
or comforting, so his withdrawing is either a prejudice to the one or the other. Sometimes
he goeth “mourning all the day,” nay, but he is “sick of love,” sometimes he is a bottle dried
in the smoke, and his moisture dried up. The Christian’s consolation may be subtracted, and
his life abide, but he cannot have spiritual consolation, if he be not lively. This life is
more substantial,—comfort is more refreshful,—life is more solid,—comfort sweet, that is true
growing solid meat, this but sauce to eat it with.

The hiding here meant is certainly a spiritual punishment. The Lord denying unto this people
grace to understand the voice of the rod,—he appearing as a party against them,—leaving them
to their own carnal and lazy temper, and thus they lay still under God’s displeasure. Now,
there is nothing like this.

I.  Because it is a spiritual punishment, and estates are not to be valued and laid in the
balance with the soul.  Albeit men are become so brutish as to abase their souls, and prostitute
them to any thing, yet all a man hath is not considerable to it.

II.  It is a more excellent thing that is removed by it,—“In his favour is life,”—all felicity
and happiness is in God’s countenance. If a man have not this, what hath he else? Losses are
according as the thing is. Nay, but here is more,—“My Lord is taken from me, my God hath forgotten
me.” And indeed, if man’s true happiness be in communion with God, certainly, any interruption
coming in must be sad, and make a man more miserable than the world knoweth. There is a greater
emphasis in that word, “Thou hast hid thy face,” than if he had said, all the world hideth
their face and maketh a scorn of us.

Therefore, first, Know what is the worst thing of the times. Many of you think sword and pestilence,
and the burdens of the time, the worst things, and if you were now to complain, the saddest
complaint would be,—affliction is laid on our loins. But know this, if your cities were desolate,
if your land were made a wilderness, and we captives in another land, there is yet a worse
thing than all these, and think you not this strange? Nay, I say, there is something worse
already in us, that we know not of, and it is this—“Make the hearts of this people hard.” A
spirit of slumber and deadness from the Lord upon the land, there are multitudes he will never
show his face unto, it is still vailed from them, and they know him not. Ye that think all
were well if ye had peace and prosperity, and know no hiding of God’s countenance—no anger
but when he striketh; certainly you know not what his countenance is by all these things men
neither know love nor hatred. 2. Whatever calamity come upon you outwardly, deprecate most
spiritual plagues and God’s deserting. If you have God’s countenance, it may make you glad
in much sadness. You would be most careful lest any partition-wall came in lest his countenance
change on you, if you grieve his Spirit and break his heart. Seek to have his face to shine,
and this shall be a sun with healing under his wings. O but Christ’s countenance is comely,
when it is seen without clouds! but often it is overclouded with much provocation.

Secondly, The Lord’s hiding of his face hath influence on the temper of spirits and disposition
in duties. The truth is in general, “In him we live, and move, and have our being,” and more
especially, in many things that are spiritual, we are of our selves able to do nothing. The
creature’s holiness, and especially our life, is but as the rays that the Sun of righteousness
sendeth forth round about him, and if any thing come between it evanisheth. As the marygold
that openeth its leaves when the sun riseth, and closeth when it goeth down again, so exactly
doth our spiritual constitution follow the motions of his countenance, and depend wholly on
them. “Thou hidest thy face, and they are troubled,” Psal. xxx 7. The Lord needeth no more
but discountenance us, and we are gone.

Always, I. Be more dependent creatures. We use to act as from habits within, without any subordination
to the Lord’s grace without us, but we find that our sufficiency is not of ourself. How often
doth your spiritual condition change on you in an hour? You cannot command one thought of God,
or act from any habit of grace, even then when you can bring forth other gifts in exercise.
Ye find that grace findeth more difficulties, more interruptions,—therefore learn to attend
the changes and motions of his countenance.

II. When you find your heart dead, and you concluded under an impossibility of taking hold
of God in a lively manner, then, I pray you, look unto the Lord’s suspending of his influence,
and let your whole endeavours be at the throne of grace to help it. It will not be your own
provoking of yourself to your duty, but you must put yourself upon God, that he may cause his
face to shine.

III. Though the Lord’s hiding his face be often a cause of our deadness, and his desertion
maketh all to wither, yet we have often a culpable hand in it, and he hides his face being
provoked so to do. One thing we may mention, grieving of the Holy Ghost whereby we are sealed,
quenching the motions of the Spirit, maketh the Spirit cover his face with a vail and hide
it. There is here ordinarily a reciprocal or mutual influence. Our grieving him makes him withdraw
his countenance, and his withdrawing his countenance maketh us to wither and grow barren.

IV. The most sure and infallible token of the Lord’s hiding his face, is security, and a spirit
of deadness and laziness, when folk go about duties dreaming, and do all as it were through
their sleep. Therefore we may conclude sad things on this land, that the Lord hideth his face
from us. And therefore arise, and do not settle and quiet yourself in such a condition. The
Lord is angry, needeth any more be said? No more needeth to kind children, but the rod must
follow this to make anger sensible.

                                Section I.

That There Is A Malignant Party Still In The Kingdom.

In the entry to this business, the importunity of not a few makes it needful to speak somewhat
to a question which unto this time hath been unquestioned, as beyond all exception, that is,
whether there be yet in Scotland a malignant party? Or, whether there be at this time any party
who may and ought, in reason and Christian prudence, to be reputed and looked upon as malignants
and disaffected to the covenanted cause of God? It seems the more needful to speak somewhat
of this, 1. Because some ministers are become slack and silent in this point, as if now there
were no need of watchfulness and warning against any such party, 2. Because the expressions
of many of the people of the land run that way, that there are now no malignants in Scotland,
and that it is but a few factious ministers that will still keep up these names, that they
may more easily, with others of their own stamp, weaken and divide the kingdom, for carrying
on of their own ends, 3. Because the inclinations and resolutions of the public judicatories,
in reference to most of the party who carried that name, do clearly import that they do think
they are no more to be looked upon as malignants, as appears from several of their papers,
especially the letter written for satisfaction to the presbytery of Stirling. And therefore
this must be laid down as the foundation of what follows. That there is still in the land,
not only a few persons, but a party considerable for number, power, and policy, who are malignant
and disaffected to the covenant and cause of God. We would join heartily in the desire of many,
that these and other such like odious names of different parties and factions were taken away,
but we cannot join in the reasons of this desire which are ordinarily given. We wish the name
malignant were obsolete and antiquate, if so be the thing itself, which is such a root of bitterness,
were extirpated out of the church. Yea, though the thing itself remained, if men would hate
it for itself, and account it more odious and hateful than the name imports, we would be glad
it were no more heard of, because we find this prejudice, by all such appropriated names, that
people generally look upon that which goes under that name as the only sin, and as if there
were not that root of bitterness, in all which it grows out of, in any, and so conceive themselves
good Christians if they fall not under that hateful appellation of malignants. But seeing this
bitter fruit of enmity, against godliness and the godly, comes to more ripeness and maturity
in many of this generation than in others, who yet are unconverted, and seeing it hath been
the custom of the church of God in all generations, to discriminate many more ungodly and known
haters of godliness and his people from the common sort of natural people, and to comprehend
them under these names of wicked, of malignant, of enemies as may appear in the Old Testament,
especially in the Psalms, and that more especially in our days, that name hath been appropriated
to such who have declared themselves, in their words or actions, to be haters of godliness
and the power thereof, and his people, or have arisen to the height of actual opposition against
these, we cannot be blamed for using such a name still, for distinction’s sake. We proceed
to some reasons.

I. The constant and continued proceedings of the General Assembly and their commissioners for
many years past unto this day.

There is not almost any of their warnings, declarations, or remonstrances, which doth not assert
this, and warn against it, and that not only before the king’s homecoming and taking of the
covenant, but also since that time, as is evident by the Declaration emitted by the commission
in July last,(325) the Declaration of the Assembly itself, a little after,(326) by the Declaration
emitted at Stirling since the defeat at Dunbar,(327) the Causes of the Fast upon that defeat,(328)
the Remonstrance to the king at Perth after his escape, together with the Remonstrance given
in by them to the parliament,(329) all which do clearly hold forth this truth.

II. Take Christ’s rule, “By their fruits ye shall know them.” There is a great party in the
land that adhere to malignant principles, bring forth malignant fruits, and tread malignant
paths, as may appear in these instances. 1. A great many of these who have been formerly engaged
in such courses, and under church censures, did lately conjoin together and rise in arms, and
drew away the king(330) from the public councils of the kingdom, and refused to lay down arms
till they got conditions agreeable to their mind; which course of theirs was justly declared
by the commission to carry upon it the stamp of malignancy in an eminent way. 2. The seeking
to promote and establish an arbitrary power in the person of the king, as it hath been still
the endeavour of the malignant party, so it hath been always taken by the kirk of Scotland
as one of their characters; and that there is a party now in Scotland who still hold that principle,
and drive this design of arbitrary power, is evident. First, because these same men, who were
lately in arms, did not only take up arms upon the king’s simple warrant, and without the knowledge,
and contrary to the mind of the committee of estates; but also received the act of indemnity,(331)
and laid down arms, in obedience to the king’s majesty, without so much as mentioning or acknowledging
the committee of estates, as is to be seen in a paper subscribed by them,(332) and in the remonstrance
of the commission of the General Assembly, dated at Perth, Nov. 29, 1650, the words whereof
are these: “Your lordships should likewise consider, whether it doth not encroach upon the
present constitution of government of this kingdom, and will not involve your lordships in
the guilt of these men’s sin, if you shall accept of their laying down of arms, merely upon
the profession of obedience to the king’s command, without any expression of their respect
and obedience to the committee of estates, or any acknowledgment of their sin and offence,
which we hope you will look upon as a most unnatural and unseasonable rending of the kingdom,
in the time of this heavy oppression by a common enemy, and exposing the kingdom to all misery
and ruin.”(333) Second, It may be remembered that in the first model of the agreement which
was made at Breda,(334) that clause which doth concern the determining of civil matters in
the interval of parliament, by such as are authorized by parliament for that effect, and the
king’s majesty hearkening to their advice, was wholly left out; and any who are acquainted
with expressions and inclinations of sundry great ones in the land, are not ignorant of their
dislike of a committee of estates, and their desire to have the administration of matters,
in the interval of parliament, wholly devolved upon the king’s council. And the same spirit
that would draw business from the committee to a cabinet council, would at last draw them from
the parliament itself, because that is also, if not more, crossing to private interests and
designs than a committee of estates.  Third instance.  There is a party in the land who as
in their hearts they do envy, and in their tongues do traduce men that have been steadfast
and faithful in the covenant and cause of God, so do they endeavour to the utmost of their
power, to bring them into disgrace and contempt, and to get them removed from power and trust,
and, upon the other side, study with no less diligence to get places of power and trust, in
the army and elsewhere, filled with such as either have been open enemies or secret underminers.
Fourth instance.  Are there not many who oppose the kingdom of Jesus Christ and work of reformation,
not only by holding up that old calumny of malignants, concerning the seditious and factious
humour of ministers, and their stretching of themselves beyond their line, and by mocking all
faithful and free preaching of the word, and by bearing down the power of godliness, deriding
and hating all the lovers and followers thereof, by being impatient of the discipline and censures
of the church, but also looking upon the government of the church with an evil eye, and strongly
inclining some of them, that church government be put in the hands of a few prelates, most
of them that it may be wholly devolved upon the civil government?  Fifth instance.  There is
still a party in the land that endeavour to have the state of the question altered, and to
have religion left out of the same, that it being stated upon civil interest, they may take
to themselves a greater latitude in their way of carrying on business. This was holden forth
to be the design of the malignant party in the year 1648, as appears in the Declaration of
the Commission that year in March, and there was a necessary and seasonable warning given against
it by the Commission in their Declaration, of the date July 1650.

III. Besides those who are excommunicated, there are yet in the land a considerable number
of persons of chief note, who do still lie under censures of the church, some because of their
accession to the late unlawful engagement, others because of their accession to the late course
of rebellion, about the time of the king’s escape from Perth, besides many others of less note.

IV. We suppose that it is most certain and unquestionable, that there was lately a malignant
party and faction in the land, very numerous and powerful.  How many men of blood, murderers
of their brethren, as unnatural and barbarous as the Irish(335) they once joined with, against
their country,—how many have watched all opportunities for troubling the peace of the kingdom,
and rejoiced in the day of its calamity?  How many were the oppressors of those who called
on the Lord’s name in the time of the Engagement?(336) What multitudes of profane and ungodly
mockers of all godliness, and haters and persecutors of the godly, swarming everywhere? If
this be truth, as it is indeed, we may say, who hath heard such a thing? Who hath seen such
a thing? Shall a nation be born at once? And have they so soon learned to do well, who have
been so long accustomed to do evil? When did this catholic conversion fall out, and by what
means? Hath the act of indemnity and pardon such influence, to justify these men from all their
butcheries and barbarous cruelties? The adding of three thousand to the church in one day,
was miraculous in the days of miracles. But behold, a greater miracle than that in the days
when miracles are ceased, many thousands added to the church of the friends of the cause of
God in one day, and that not by preaching, which is the power of God unto salvation, not by
spiritual weapons, which are mighty through God, but by the carnal weapon of an act of indemnity,
and the example of one man, the king’s conjunction in the cause, which at the best hath not
such evidence of reality as to convince any, and change their mind. Sad experience, and the
constant testimony of the church of Scotland proves, that malignancy is a weed that hath deeper
and stronger roots than to be plucked up so easily; and that, though there be some, yet there
be but few in the land who have been once engaged in that way, that have really and indeed
abandoned and come off the same.

The point shall more appear by taking off objections that are made to the contrary. It is objected,
1. That these who were formerly esteemed malignants, did oppose the work of God because they
could not be persuaded in conscience, that the covenant and cause were contrived and carried
on in a warrantable way, those who were most instrumental in it, seeming to them not only to
act without authority, but against authority. But so it is, that the king hath now joined in
the covenant and added his authority to it, and therefore it needs not be feared that these
men will any more oppose it, nay it may be expected, they will no less zealously promote the
ends thereof than they did formerly oppose the same.

Answer: This argument supposeth some things that are false, some things at best doubtful, and
some things dangerous.

I. It supposeth two falsities: 1. That it was a ground and principle of conscience and respect
to the king’s authority that made these men to oppose the covenant and work of reformation.
If it was the conscience and conviction of the unwarrantableness of it for the want of authority,
that stirred them up to oppose the covenant and cause, then why did they subscribe it and join
in the defence of the same against the king? 2. It supposeth that the only ground, why they
did oppose and undermine the same, was, because the king was of a contrary mind, and refused
to join in the covenant, and ratify the same by his authority, which also is false, for there
were several other grounds and causes of so doing besides this. We shall name a few, leaving
the rest to a further scrutiny (1.) The natural enmity that is in the hearts of all men against
the Lord and his anointed, his work and his people, and the power of godliness which doth effectually
work in the children of disobedience. (2.) An enmity against the power of parliament and laws.
(3.) An enmity against the union of the kingdoms. (4.) An enmity against the power of presbyteries,
and the discipline of the church, to which are opposed, a sinful desire of breaking the bonds
and casting away the cords of the Lord and his anointed, a desire to establish an arbitrary
power and unlimited monarchy, a desire to establish a lordly prelatical power in the persons
of a few, or to have the government of the church wholly dependent on the civil power, a desire
to dissolve the union of the kingdoms, that they may be thereby weakened and less able to resist
malignant designs against religion and liberties, a desire to live loosely without bands in
regard of personal reformation.

II. It supposeth something that is at best doubtful, to wit, that the king hath really joined
unto the cause of God, there being small evidences of it, and many presumptions to the contrary,
especially, 1. His bringing home with him into the kingdom, a number of eminent, wicked and
known malignants; his countenancing of, and familiar conversing with such in this nation since
his coming,(337) and correspondence with others of them abroad, his deserting of the public
councils of the kingdom, to join to a party of bloody and wicked men, raided in arms with his
knowledge and by his warrant.  2. His not being convinced of any guilt in his father, because
of his opposition to the cause and covenant, notwithstanding of all the blood of the Lord’s
people shed by him in that opposition. For verifying whereof, we appeal to the knowledge of
some noblemen and ministers, who have occasion to know his mind and to be serious with him
in this thing.

III. It supposeth something that is of very dangerous consequence. 1. That these men’s zeal
to the cause or against it, doth ebb and flow according to the king’s being against it or for
it.  Since they follow the cause not for itself but for the king, will they not desert it when
the king forsakes it?  Can they be accounted real friends of the cause who are known to favour
it only, ad nutum principis,(338)—as the comedian, ait, aio, negat, nego?(339) Is it not all
one to follow the cause for the king, and for a man’s own interest and advantage? Both are
alike extrinsic and adventitious to the cause, both are alike changeable. Eccebulus under Constantius
was a precise Christian, under Julian a persecuting apostate; and then again under the next
Christian emperor became a Christian. And it is like if he had outlived that emperor till a
heathen succeeded, he should have paganized the second time. 2.  That very principle that is
pretended to unite them to the cause is in itself most dangerous, both to the privileges of
parliament and liberties of the people, and to our religion beside. Their principle of opposition
was, “They conceived the way followed could not be warrantable without the king’s consent and
warrant, that people might not vindicate their own just rights and liberties, and their religion,
without the king’s concurrence, or against him.” Now then, the principle of their conjunction
to the cause must be this, because it is now clothed with authority which it had not before,
and which now makes it warrantable. This principle therefore includes in the bosom of it, the
establishing of unlimited and absolute power in kings; the unlawfulness of defensive wars against
tyranny and oppression; the king’s negative voice, and the dependent power of parliaments upon
his pleasure; all which are principles destructive of the cause and our liberties, and the
very characters(340) of our enemies from the beginning. Thus they have changed their way, but
not their principles, and are now the more dangerous that they may not be looked upon as enemies,
but as friends. Seeing it is manifest, that it is not the love of the cause that constrains
them, and they know it was not that principle that persuaded the king, but mere necessity,
contrary to his own inclination, may we not certainly expect, that according to their principles
they will labour to set at freedom the king, whom they conceive imprisoned and captivated by
the power of necessity within the limits and bounds of a regulated monarchy, and to loose him
from all these chains of involuntary treaties and agreements, and rigid laws and parliaments,
that he may then act in freedom and honour according to his own inclination and theirs both?
And then farewell religion and liberties.

Objection 2: The most part of these who were formerly malignant, have now repented of that
sin, and make profession of their resolution to adhere to the covenant and cause of God, and
to bestow their lives and estates in defence thereof. Therefore they are not now to be esteemed
malignants.

Answer: We would wish from our hearts that we had no answer to this argument; then should we
yield the point in hand, and yield it cheerfully, that there is no malignant party now in Scotland.
But, alas! that we have so much evidence convincing our consciences and persuading them to
deny what is objected. We acknowledge some have indeed repented, and such we desire to embrace
and receive with all tenderness and love, as godly Christians, worthy to be intrusted. But
yet the most part of them do still bring forth the same malignant fruits. Their ungodly and
wicked practices testify to their face that they have nothing to do to take his covenant in
their mouth, seeing they hate to be reformed. The late rising in arms, contrary to their solemn
and particular engagements, their bearing down and reproaching the godly, and such as are of
known integrity, their studying to fill places of trust with men formerly enemies or underminers,
their continuing in their profane and loose walking,—all these are more convincing evidences
of their retaining their old principles than any extorted confessions or professions, for sinister
respects and ends can be no probable signs of their repentance and change.

We desire these things to be remembered, 1: That the Engagement(341) was carried on, not by
open and professed enemies, but such as had made public profession of their repentance, and
were thereupon admitted to trust. 2. That upon consideration of the hypocrisy and instability
of these men appearing in that and other particulars, the kirk and kingdom of Scotland did
take upon themselves strait bonds and engagements to exclude such from trust, until such time
as they had given real evidences of the reality of their repentance, and of abandoning their
former principles and ways, of which the kirk was to judge impartially as in God’s sight. 3.
That it hath been confessed and preached by many godly ministers, and was given in by sundry
in the time of the search of the Lord’s controversy against the land, in November last at Perth,
and hath been bemoaned and regretted by many of the people who feared God, that there is a
great deal of sin and guilt lying on the kirk of Scotland, for the sudden receiving of scandalous
persons, especially malignants, to the public profession of repentance before there was in
them any real evidence of their forsaking their former principles and ways.

Objection 3: None are now to be esteemed malignants, in reference to employment and trust,
but such as stand judicially declared by kirk and state to be so; for certainly, men are not
to lie under the burden of so great a reproach, upon the private whisperings and common reports
of others, otherwise, honest men may be wronged, and there shall be no end of confusion, or
terminating this controversy, there being no certain rule to walk by in it.

Answer: We acknowledge that surmisings, whisperings, and reports of others are not sufficient,
but that a rule is needful. All the question will be, What is that rule? And though the judicial
debarring of judicatories be not all, but it must be ruled by another rule, yet are we willing
to take it for so much; for even that will prove there is yet a malignant party in Scotland,
because many are standing under church censures [albeit we are sorry there is so much precipitancy
and haste in taking off the censures].(342) Those involved in the late rebellion are standing
under a sentence of the commission,(343) declaring them to be following their old malignant
designs; few of them are yet admitted to profession of repentance. We desire it may be considered,
that the rule holden forth by the kirk of Scotland 1648, for admitting of persons to trust
is of larger extent than judicial sentence or censure; to wit, that they be such against whom
there is no just cause of exception or jealousy. 2. Albeit a judicial trial or censure be indeed
necessary, for inflicting punishment or censure upon men, yet it is not necessary for avoiding
association with them, or debarring them from trust. 3. If none were to be accounted malignants,
but they who are judicially declared to be such, what needed the kirk of Scotland have frequently
taken so much pains, to give characters to know them by, there being so clear and compendious
a way beside? Hath there not been always in the land secret underminers as well as open enemies?
And hath not faithful men avoided the one as well as the other? 4. The General Assembly, 1648,
declared the taking in of these who followed James Graham(344) to be an association with malignants,
though most part of them were then released from church censures.

                               Section II.

In the next place, upon supposal and proof, that there is a malignant party and faction still
in the land, it is needful to examine, whether the exceptions contained in the answer of the
Commission to the Parliament’s Query,(345) and inserted into the Act of Levy,(346) be so comprehensive
as to include all that party. The exceptions be four: 1. Such as are excommunicated. 2. Such
as are forfaulted. 3. Such as are notoriously profane or flagitious. And, 4. Such as have been
from the beginning, and continue still, or at this time are, obstinate enemies and opposers
of the covenant and cause of God. That these are not comprehensive of the whole malignant party
in the land, appears.

First, The rules of the General Assembly framed for the exclusion of all such as ought not
to be employed in our armies, are far more comprehensive. The rule is for employing of such
only as are of a Christian and blameless conversation, which is turned over by their commissioners
into a negative, all that are not notoriously profane or flagitious. Another is, for intrusting
only these who have been of known integrity and constant friends to the cause of God from the
beginning, which is also turned over into a negative, all that have not been constant enemies.
All such, by the Answer, are capable of some trust and employment. The rules agreed upon by
the assembly, and ratified by act of parliament, anno 1649, and renewed upon occasion of this
invasion, were that no officer nor soldier that followed James Graham should be permitted in
the army, nor any officer that was in the Engagement, except such as, upon real evidence of
repentance, were particularly recommended by the church, nor any common soldier, but upon sufficient
testimony of his repentance. Now, since it is proved that the most part of all such continue
still malignants, and retain their old principles, and that the bulk and body of the people
are called forth by the public resolution, without such exceptions as were conceived before
necessary, for the exclusion of that party, it follows clearly, that the malignant party is
not excepted in the present resolutions.

Second. Few of these who were in the late rebellion, and declared, not many days since, to
be following a most malignant design and course, are contained under these exceptions, because
very few of them are excommunicated or forfaulted, and though more of them be indeed flagitious
and profane, yet very few of them will fall under the compass of the exception, notoriously
flagitious. Many wicked things will be said to concur to make up a profane man. Some acts will
not serve; a habit must be demonstrated, and though that were showed, yet there must be also
a notoriety of it, which imports a man to be famous for looseness and profanity, and there
are none almost, if any in the land, who have been professed enemies from the beginning, and
continue so to this day. James Graham was not such. It is the matter of our sad complaint,
that whilst many are enemies, they make profession and semblance of friendship.

Third. These exceptions do not comprehend any who are under censure for malignancy or profanity,
except such as are under the sentence of excommunication, and that even such may not be excluded,
lest the rule be transgressed, by admitting and employing excommunicated persons, ’tis withal
resolved, that these persons shall be relaxed from that sentence, that so they may be immediately
in the same capacity of employment with others, whatever formerly hath been their opposition
or defection. Some exceptions must be made, for honesty and credit’s sake. But the nearest
and readiest way is taken to make them ineffectual.

Fourth. These exceptions do not only not reach these who were upon the unlawful engagement
and have not as yet given sufficient proof of their abandoning their malignant principles and
courses, but come not the length of comprehending these men of blood who followed James Graham
and in the most barbarous and cruel way, shed the blood of their own brethren and God’s people.
Because the most part of these are not excommunicated nor forfaulted, nor notoriously flagitious
and profane, nor such as have from the beginning been, and still are enemies. If any will say,
that such are comprehended under these exceptions, why did the commission express the exceptions
in such terms, as to men’s common apprehension do not include many, especially seeing there
are known rules, particular and distinct, without ambiguity, and seeing there is such a propension
in rulers to employ all without difference, which would undoubtedly take advantage of any thing
that seemed to look that way?

It is likewise manifest, that the second part of the answer, relating to the capacity of acting,
is loaded with the same inconvenience. 1. There is no positive determination of the qualifications
of persons to be intrusted, as in former times it was agreed on by the Assembly and their Commissioners,
but that is now referred to the discretion of the parliament, together with such diminutive
terms, as give them great latitude to go upon. Before, no trust was given to such persons.
Now, it is allowed they shall have some trust, and how much is not determined, nor what degree
of it is prejudicial to the cause, which it appears, the parliament’s proceedings in nomination
of officers unquestioned by the Commission, is a good commentary to expound that they may have
any trust, except to be general officers. 2. Our former established rule was, that no persons
should be intrusted, but such as are of known integrity, and have been constant friends of
the cause. But how far is this diminished? They who are such, only recommended to be especially
taken notice of. Less could not be said by any. More ought to have been said by the Commission.
And though no such notice be taken of such by the parliament, but on the contrary, those who
have been most faithful, and suffered in the late defeat at Hamilton,(347) are used as enemies,
worse than malignants in former times, yet there is no testimony given against such things.
Quantum mutatus ab illo cœtu qui quondam fuit!(348)

Before we enter upon the chief question, we offer these manifest and known truths to consideration:

(1) The occasion of contriving and subscribing first the national covenant, and then the solemn
league and covenant, was, the designs and practices of the popish, prelatical and malignant
party, against religion and the work of reformation in these kingdoms. (2) Since the contriving
and subscribing of the same, it hath been the continual endeavour of that party sometimes by
undermining and some times by open opposition to undo the same and to bear down all those that
clave honestly thereto and faithfully prosecute all the ends thereof. (3) That there hath been
these many years past and still is, such a party, in all the three kingdoms, considerable for
number, power, and policy. (4) That that party hath always prosecuted their design under a
colour of zeal and respect to the king’s authority and interest. (5) That that party hath always
been the authors and abettors of much bloodshed, many miseries, and sad calamities to these
nations. (6) That the people of God in these kingdoms have taken upon themselves a most solemn
and sacred bond of an oath and covenant to discover them and bring them to condign punishment.
(7) That it hath been one of the predominant sins of Scotland under the bond of the covenant
to comply with them. (8) That indignation and wrath from the Lord hath been following that
party and their designs these years past. (9) That compliances with them hath always been cursed
to us of God. (10) That few of that party do really abandon and forsake their corrupt principles
and way and join cordially in the cause and covenant. (11) That many of them do, after the
profession of their repentance for their opposition to the cause and covenant of God, relapse
frequently into the same sin. (12) That sudden receiving of many of them to fellowship and
trust, and too great credulity in believing their professions hath often cost this land very
dear. (13) That upon consideration of the deep treachery and hypocrisy of these men, and the
sad consequences following upon sudden receiving of them without evidence of a change, after
long and renewed experience, this land renewed their obligations more strictly in the solemn
engagement. (14) That there hath been a design driven these two years past to get that party
again in power and trust. (15) That this design hath been testified against by the public resolutions
of the judicatories unto this time. (16) That as it hath been driven at very cunningly and
actively, by many instruments and arguments of several sorts, so hath it gained ground piece
and piece, until at length many of them are brought into the court and to the army and judicatories
in the country. And now by the public resolutions they are generally to be employed and intrusted.
Thus the design is accomplished. But, (17) These men do not satisfy themselves with some degree
of power, but endeavour to engross the whole power of the kingdom into their own hands, and
study to bring into contempt, and cull out these who have been and do continue constant in
the cause of God. (18) That having power into their hands, they must act according to their
own principles and for establishing their own ends. And lastly, That these principles and ends
are destructive to the covenant and work of reformation.

                               Section III.

If there be in the land a malignant party of power and policy, and the exceptions contained
in the Act of Levy do comprehend but few of that party, then there need be no more difficulty
to prove, that the present public resolutions and proceedings do import an association and
conjunction with a malignant party, than to gather a conclusion from clear premises. But that
such a conjunction is in itself sinful and unlawful, and besides, a violation of our solemn
oaths and engagements, a backsliding from our principles and professions, and a walking contrary
to the whole tenor and current of our former resolutions and practices, is now to be made manifest.

First: We reason from that constant, standing and perpetual rule, which the Lord gives concerning
the modelling and carnage of the armies of his people in all their wars, Deut. xxiii. 9, “When
the host goeth forth against their enemies, then keep thee from every wicked thing.” And after,
“If there be among you any man that is unclean, by reason of uncleanness that chanceth him
by night, then shall he go abroad out of the camp, he shall not come within the camp.” (If
for ceremonial uncleanness he was to be excluded, much more for moral, as our divines reason
from the Old Testament in the point of excommunication, and if for uncleanness not voluntary,
much more for voluntary wickedness). The reason of all is given ver. 14: “For the Lord thy
God walketh in the midst of the camp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before
thee. Therefore shall thy camp be holy, that he see no unclean thing in thee, and turn away
from thee.” Even as they would expert a blessing of the Lord, so ought they to keep their camp
holy, as he is holy. He gives not such a strict rule for the competency of number, as for the
qualifications of the persons, as being the principal thing. Therefore the present conjunction
with so many ungodly and wicked men, that have formerly declared themselves enemies to God
and his people, and to this day give no evidence to the contrary, is sinful and unlawful.

Second, The Lord hath frequently in scripture declared his dislike and hatred of such associations
and conjunctions. The scriptures cited in the General Assembly’s declaration in the year 1648,
against the Engagement,(349) are sufficient proof of this. We shall take the argument as it
is formed by the commissioners of that assembly, in their answer to the observations of the
committee of estates upon the assembly’s declaration, p. 7. “Every engagement in war, that
is pretended to be for religion, and hath in it a confederacy and association with wicked men,
enemies of true religion, is sinful and unlawful. But the present engagement in war, as it
is held forth in the public resolutions, is pretended to be for religion, and yet hath in it
a confederacy and conjunction with wicked men, and enemies of true religion.” Ergo, The second
proposition is evident from the two first sections.

The first proposition is proved from those scriptures forementioned. God forbade conjunctions
and confederacies with the enemies of his cause and people, not only the Canaanites, (Exod.
xxxiv. 12, 15, Deut. vii. 2.) and other heathens, such was Asa his covenant with Benhadad,
(2 Chron. xvi. to ver. 10,) Ahaz his confederacy with the king of Assyria, (2 Kings xvi. 7,
10, 2 Chron. xxviii. 16,) but also with wicked men of the seed of Abraham, as Jehoshaphat’s
with Ahab, (2 Chron. xviii. And he answered him, I am as thou art, and my people as thy people,
and we will be with thee in the war,” compared with chap. xix. 2. “And Jehu the son of Hanam
the seer, went out to meet him, and said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldst thou help the ungodly,
and love them that hate the Lord? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the Lord,”) and
with Ahaziah, (2 Chron. xx. 49: “Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat: Let my
servants go with thy servants in the ships.” But Jehoshaphat would not. And then Amaziah’s
association with 100,000 of Israel, 2 Chron. xxv. 7, 8, 9, 10: “But there came a man of God
to him, saying, O king, let not the army of Israel go with thee for the Lord is not with Israel
to wit, with all the children of Ephraim. But if thou wilt go, do it, be strong for the battle.
18 “And now,—what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink the waters of the river?”
Psal. cvi. 35. “But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works,” Hosea v. 13.
“When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian,
and sent to king Jareb, yet could he not heal you, nor cure you of your wound,” and chap. vii.
8, 11. “Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people, Ephraim is a cake not turned, Ephraim
also is like a silly dove without heart, they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria,” 2 Cor. vi.
14, 15. Psal. cxxxix. 21.

The committee of estates at that time endeavoured to elude the strength of these scriptures,
and vindicate their engagement from the falling within the compass of them. But the commission
of the Assembly that year took the mask off their evasions. Would to God we had no other party
to deal with now! It was the evil and complaint of that time, that church and state were divided.
But what an evil time are we now fallen into, that the union of those in this point, is the
complaint of many of the godly? The commission, in their letter to Stirling presbytery,(350)
sets up the committee’s answer in a new dress, and holds it out for satisfaction to our consciences.
All that is answered may be reduced to three or four heads.

I. There is made a great difference between an invasive and defensive war as if in the one,
choice of instruments ought to be sought, but in the case of just and necessary defence, all
subjects may be employed.(351)

To which we answer, 1. That the scriptures cited conclude most expressly against conjunctions
of that kind in defensive wars. Such was Asa’s covenant, such was Ahaz his confederacy. Were
not the reproofs of the prophets directed particularly against the people’s seeking of help
from Egypt and Assyria, in the case of their own just and necessary defence? Jer. ii. 18, Hosea
v. 13, and vii. 8, 11, Isa. viii. 12, 13, 2 Chron. xvi. to ver. 10. 2. The law and rule given,
Deut. xxiii. is general, regulating all their wars whether defensive or offensive, and it is
strange that any should imagine such a difference where the law makes none, nay, when the ground
of the law is moral and general, equally respecting all wars. Is there any ground of conscience,
why wicked persons may not be kept in the camp when we invade others, and yet these may be
employed and intrusted when we defend ourselves? If there be any reason to prefer the one to
the other in this point, we conceive defensive war should have the preference, because when
the Lord brings upon us an unjust invasion, he is ordinarily pursuing a controversy against
us. And therefore we ought to be most tender and circumspect, that there be no unclean thing
in the camp, and put away every wicked thing from us, even the appearance of evil, lest we
add oil to the flame of his indignation, and he seeing such an unclean thing in us, turn yet
further from us, except we say, that we need not take care to have God in the camp with us,
when we are upon just and necessary defence, seeing our cause is so good. 3. There is more
hazard and danger to our religion and liberties in having a wicked malignant army at home among
us, than abroad in another nation. While they are here, they have the power of the sword, and
can command all, but there might be some hope and endeavour for vindicating our own liberties
and religion while they are abroad, as it fell out in the time of the Engagement.

II. It is answered, that there is a difference between this case and the Engagement, because
there was then no necessity of choosing such instruments, a competency of power might be had,
but now it is not so, and therefore the scriptures mentioned do not militate against the present
case. Answer 1. The scriptures cited will obviate this. What made Israel and Judah run to Egypt
and Assyria for help, but their weakness and necessity? Their wound was incurable, and their
bruise grievous, as Jeremiah often laments, and particularly chap. viii. 20-22, and x. 19,
&c., and yet this did not excuse them for going to Egypt or Assyria to heal their wound, Hosea
v. 13, and vii. 8, 11. The scripture holds out infidelity and distrust in God as the ground
of such association, (2 Chron. xvi. 7-9, Isa. viii. 12, 13,) which proceeds from the incompetency
of means as the occasion of it. 2. Suppose there was a necessity for the calling forth the
body of the common people, yet certainly there is no necessity of employing any such persons
of whom the question is, and putting them in places of trust. There is none can deny but there
are, besides all secluded persons, many that might fill the places of trust and power. 3. Necessity
is a very plausible argument and strong plea to carnal reason for any thing, but it cannot
be a good ground, in point of conscience, for that which is sinful in itself. Now that this
is sinful in itself appears, from the word of God simply condemning such associations, upon
moral, and so general and perpetual grounds. Now, in such a case of necessity, we are called
either to trust in God, in the use of competent means, seeing in such cases we have so many
promises, or if all help be gone which God allows us to make use of, we must wait on him till
he brings salvation with his own arm.

But because the plea of necessity is the strongest that is made use of for the present public
resolutions, we must consider it a little more. It is alleged, that the best part of the land
is under the feet of the enemy, and so no help can be had from it, and for other parts of the
land which are yet free, there is not much choice of persons, and the testimony of faithful
men in the state declares, that when all that are called forth of these places are gathered,
it cannot amount to a power competent enough, and therefore in such a question of the existence
of second means, the knowledge whereof immediately depends on sense and experience, these who
are not acquainted should give credit to the testimony of faithful witnesses, and that a competency
of power must be had, according to the ordinary way of Providence, in relation to which we
must act, except we would tempt God by requiring of him wonders.(352)

Answer. Suppose the enemy’s army to consist of 20,000 or above, are there not more fencible
persons in the shires on the north side of Forth? Believe it who please we cannot stop our
own consciences, and put out our own eyes. Let the rolls of several shires be looked to, and
it shall confute that testimony. Nay, are there not more persons not formerly secluded, in
all those shires? What meant the levy appointed immediately after Dunbar? Was not 10,000 foot,
and 1,400 horse put upon these shires which are not under the power of the enemy, and yet the
rules of exclusion were not abandoned? Now all these, or most part of them, are yet in the
country not levied. Money was taken instead of men, the levies obstructed so that there was
little addition to the strength of the forces that remained, the forces diverted by the insurrection
of the malignants in the north, at the King’s command or warrant,—all which hath such pregnant
presumption of a design carried on to necessitate the kingdom to employ that party, by the
cunning politicians of the time, by obstructing the levies, raising the malignants, and then
pacifying them by an act of indemnity, and at last openly and avowedly associating with them.
Thus the design is accomplished which was long since on foot.

2. If satisfying courses had been studied by the public judicatories to carry on all the godly
in the land with their resolutions, there had accrued strength from the parts of the land be
south Forth, which would have compensated all that competency of power that the conjunction
of the malignants makes up and, it may be, would have been more blessed of God. 3. If there
be no help required nor expected from those parts of the kingdom be south Forth, wherefore
did the commission write to the presbyteries in those bounds that they might concur actively
in their stations for the furtherance of the levies, and choose ministers to go out with them?

III. It is answered. That the confederacies reproved were unlawful, because they were either
with heathens, or with idolaters, strangers, and foreigners. This is answered to the case of
Amaziah, &c., and so it seems not to make against the present case, the employing all subjects
in the just and necessary defence of the kingdom.(353)

Answer 1. This answer at one blow cuts off all the strength of the General Assembly’s reason
against the association with malignants in that year. There might be some few persons idolaters,
but there was no party and faction such, and yet they can deny association with the English
malignants from those scriptures, yea not only with them but with our own countrymen that were
in rebellion with James Graham, who were neither idolaters nor foreigners. We need no other
answer than the Commission at that time give to the committee of estates using that same evasion,
pg. 10, 11. 2.  The ground and reason whereupon such associations are condemned, is more general
and  comprehensive. Jehoshaphat was reproved for joining with Ahab, because he was “ungodly,
and hated the Lord,” which is properly in our terms, because he was a malignant and profane
man. It was a strange mocking of scripture to restrict ungodliness, in that place, to the sin
of idolatry. Confederacy with the Canaanites and other nations was forbidden on this ground,
“that the people be not insnared, and learn not their works.” Now, is not the company of, and
communion with ungodly men, of the same general profession, but mockers and haters of the power
thereof, as infectious and insnaring? Nay, it is more apt to insnare because of the profession.
Paul would have as much distance kept with a brother walking unorderly as a pagan. For such
a one as walks contrary to his profession of the true religion, does evidence more ungodliness
and wickedness, than an ignorant and superstitious papist that walks precisely according to
his profession. There is some principle of conscience stirring in the one, but it is seared
in the other with a hot iron. God ranks such, who are uncircumcised in heart, with the uncircumcised
in flesh. Ought not his people to do so too? 3. The rule of modelling armies and purging the
camp is most comprehensive,  Deut. xxiii. Not only idolaters and foreigners, but every wicked
thing and unclean thing, was to be removed out of the camp. Now, seeing those examples are
transgressions of this law, what reason is there to make the only ground of reproving and condemning
of them to be, because idolaters were associated with, as if any other might be joined with,
that is not an idolater? 4. That reason against Amaziah’s conjunction with Israel is wrested,
by some expounding it thus God is not with them, is not understood, in regard of a state of
grace, as appears, nor in regard of God’s prospering providence, because he was often with
them in that regard but it must be understood in regard of an idolatrous profession. But we
reply, that it is true it is not understood in regard of a state of grace, nor simply in regard
of his prospering providence, but ut plurimum,(354) the Lord for the most part crossing them
till they were cut off from being a nation. But especially it is to be meant in regard of a
course opposite to God, according as the Lord speaks, 2 Chron. xv. 2. “The  Lord is with you
while ye be with him, but if ye forsake him he will forsake you.” If any will restrict this
to idolatry, he hath no ground from scripture for such a limitation, but being engaged in the
business, he wrests the scriptures to his own destruction. Sure we are, there are many palpable
forsakings of God, and God’s forsaking of men, beside idolatry and false worship. 5. That which
is said “That God did not command Amaziah to dismiss any of his own subjects.” Either it makes
not much to the present business, or else it strikes against the law of God itself, that commanded
such strict purging of the camp. From whom I pray you? Certainly from wicked Israelites, from
wicked countrymen. Therefore, if there was any such among the men of Judah, he ought to have
put them out of the army as well as the Israelites. Nay, the command of dismissing the Israelites,
was, really and upon the matter, a command to purge his camp of all that was of the stamp of
the Israelites. It is strange that the civil difference of strangers and citizens should make
such difference in the point of conscience. Ought we not to hate the Lord’s enemies with a
perfect hatred, not as Englishmen, not as strangers, but as enemies? Levi knew not his brother.
This was his honour. But many now for respect to their brethren, know not God. It is the moral
quality that the law of God respects, without respect of persons and countries. To be a citizen,
if not qualified, doth no more plead for employment, in foro conscientiæ(355) and before God,
than to be a stranger and qualified doth impede trust and employment in foro conscientiæ and
before God.

IV. It may be answered (and it is by some), That those scriptures plead, that there should
be no conjunction with wicked men in a quarrel of religion, but seeing our present business
is the defence of the kingdom, all subjects, as subjects, stand in capacity of employment for
that end, though in reference to the defence of religion there must be a choice.

Answer 1. The Commission have vindicated themselves in a letter to Stirling presbytery from
that imputation, that it is said, they state the quarrel and cause merely upon civil things
in the answer to the parliament’s query.(356) But certainly there is just ground given to these
that are watching for any such thing to state the cause so, because they do, contrary to all
former custom and practice, mention the defence of the kingdom only, as it had been of purpose
to make the employing of all members of the body or subjects of the kingdom for its defence
more plausible. But we answer to the point. The associations and conjunctions that are condemned
in the cited scriptures are some of them for civil quarrels so far as we know, some of them
in the point of just and necessary defence of the kingdom, and yet that doth not justify them.
2. The rule given them, Deut. xxiii., was regulating all their wars and clearly holds forth,
that all subjects as subjects and members of the politic body, though as such there is an obligation
lying on them to defend the whole, yet are not in actual and nearest capacity to the performance
of that duty, if they be wicked and unclean. And the reason is, because the Lord would have
the wars of his people his own wars, and all that they do, to his glory, Num. xxi. 14. 2 Chron.
xx. 15, Col. iii. 17. More especially in such solemn undertakings, there ought to be a difference
between his people, acting for self defence, and other nations. 3. Although the defence of
the kingdom and defence of the cause, be different in themselves, yet are they inseparable.
Whoever is intrusted with the defence of the kingdom really and de facto,(357) he is eo ipso(358)
intrusted with the defence of the cause. Therefore the people of God, who ought always to have
religion first in their eye, ought, especially in raising forces for self preservation, to
level at religion, and direct the choice of instruments in relation to that mark, that they
destroy not Christians, while they save subjects and preserve our bodies to destroy our souls.

Third Reason. That which is dissonant from and contrary unto all our former resolutions and
proceedings, oaths and engagements, confessions and humiliations, must needs be most unlawful,
or they themselves, as to that point, were unlawful. But the present resolutions and proceedings
are dissonant from, and contrary to all these. Ergo, either our present or our former resolutions
and practices were unlawful, either we were wrong before, or we are not right now. The second
proposition maybe made manifest from, 1. The present resolutions are contrary to the solemn
league and covenant in the fourth article and the sixth,—to the fourth, because we put power
in the hands of a malignant party, power of the sword, which is inconsistent in the own nature
of it with either actual punishing of them, or endeavouring to bring them to punishment, unless
it be intended to bring them all forth, and expose them to the slaughter for a sacrifice for
the land, which may be the Lord’s mind indeed, howbeit they know not his thoughts,—and to the
sixth article, because it is a declining to the contrary party, even that party against whom
the covenant was at the making expressly contrived. And as the declaration of the General Assembly
1648, hath it, it is a joining with one enemy to beat another, with a black devil to beat a
white.(359)

It is most ingeniously answered, that the present resolutions are not contrary to the covenant,
because such as are described in the covenant are not allowed to be employed, meaning that
these men are not now malignants. What needs men make such a compass to justify the public
resolutions, seeing there is so easy and ready a way straight at hand? This one answer might
take off all the arguments made against them, that there is no malignant party now, which is
the foundation that being removed all the building must fall to the ground. But we have in
the first article evinced that, which had been scandalous to have proved, if it had not been
questioned. If it were indeed true, that no malignants are allowed to be employed, what need
the Commission in their letter to Stirling presbytery take so much pains from scripture and
reason to justify the present resolutions, when the clearing of that one point had cleared
all? As for the declaration of the Assembly, anno 1648, it is answered, that none are to be
employed, that continue notourly(360) in the courses of malignancy, which was done that year.
Whereas the malignant party that was then associated with, would have engaged to be faithful
to all the ends of the covenant, many of them were such as had been in covenant, and made show
of their repentance for their defection from it; and so there is no difference in this particular.

2. The Solemn Acknowledgment of public sins is so clear and peremptory in this that it makes
us tremble to think on it. Page 6, “Should we again break his commandments and covenant, by
joining any more in affinity with the people of these abominations, and take in our bosom these
serpents, which have formerly stung us almost to death? This, as it would argue much folly
and madness, so, no doubt, it would provoke the Lord to consume us till there be no remnant,
nor escaping.” Let the 6th article also be considered.(361) Join to this the Declaration of
the commission, upon report of this enemy’s invading, p. 6 where it is declared, that malignants
shall not be associated with, nay, not countenanced and permitted to be in our armies. The
General Assembly after this, upon the enemy’s entry into Scotland, gives serious warning to
the rulers, to take heed of snares from that party and that the rather, because men ordinarily
are so taken with the sense of danger, as not to look back to that which is behind them, &c.
How often have we sentenced ourselves unto wrath and consumption if we shall fall into this
sin again? All these and the like, are endeavoured to be taken off, by saying that our engagements
in this point were conceived in a way of prosecution of the cause, but to be no impediment
of the just and necessary defence, which we are bound to by nature’s law, which no human law
can infringe.

But we reply, (1) It is strange, our prosecution of the cause these years past should be contradistinguished
from the defence of it and the kingdom. It was conceived that our war in England was defensive,
not invasive, that it was necessitated for the defence even of our kingdom, but it seems it
is now questioned. But passing what was acted abroad, certainly all our wars at home were merely
defensive, both against unjust invasion and seditious insurrections. Now our solemn engagements
were conceived, in relation to our actings at home especially, and modelling our armies for
the defence of our liberties and religion.  We know well enough that a just invasive war is
a rare accident in the world, and that the flock of Jesus Christ is for the most part, obnoxious
to the violence of others, as sheep among wolves, but are not often called to prey upon others.
(2) To call our solemn engagements and declarations grounded upon our oaths and the word of
God, human laws and constitutions that must cede to nature’s law, is indeed ingenious dealing,
because to justify the present proceedings, there can be no more expedite way than to condemn
bypast resolutions for the peremptoriness of them, and to make them grounded on politic considerations,
which are alterable, but it imports a great change of principles. We conceive that all human
laws that are not for the matter grounded on the word of God, that oblige not conscience, but
in the case of scandal and in regard of the general end, are alterable and changeable, whenever
they come in opposition to the law of nature, self defence, and the law of God written in his
word. And therefore that act of parliament, mentioned by the Commission, discharging all subjects
from rising without the king’s command, which was made use of against our first taking arms,
was no ways binding on the subjects not to rise in defence of their religion and liberties
when in hazard.(362) And we wonder that that law should be compared to our solemn engagements,
which are grounded upon oaths and God’s word, as touching the very matter and substance of
them, as if our engagements did no more bind us now, in case of defence, than that law did
bind us then. Royalists might be excused for preferring the king’s will to God’s, but we cannot
be pardoned for equalizing them; and especially while we consider that that forementioned act
undoubtedly hath been intended for the establishing of an arbitrary and absolute power in the
king’s hand, that the subjects may not have liberty to save themselves, except the king will.
Where God hath given us liberty by the law of nature, or his word, no king can justly tie us,
and when God binds and obliges us by any of these, no king or parliament can loose or untie
us. (3) The Declaration of the Commission and Assembly upon this invasion, renews the same
bond of our former engagements, yea, and speaks expressly in the case of fewness and scarceness
of instruments, against the unbelief of people that are ready in danger to choose any help.(363)
Therefore that which is said in answer, that at that time there was a choice of instruments
which now is not, may indeed condemn and falsify the declarations at that time, in the supposition
of the paucity of instruments, and in the application of that doctrine and divine truth to
that time, but it doth not speak any thing against the application of that truth therein contained
to our time, it being more manifest, that we have greater necessity and less choice of instruments,
and so in greater hazard of unbelief, and overlooking what is behind us.

3. It is of all considerations the most confounding, to reflect upon our former humiliations
and fasts. How often hath it been confessed to God, as the predominant public sin of Scotland,
countenancing and employing the malignant party? But when we call particularly to mind the
first solemn fast after the defeat at Dunbar, astonishment takes hold on us, to think, that
is now defended as a duty, which, but some months ago, was solemnly confessed as a sin. The
not purging of the army, the obstructing of that work, and great inclinations to keep in and
fetch in such persons, and the repining at, and crying out against all that was done in the
contrary, were then reckoned as the great causes of God’s wrath, and his sad stroke upon us.
What distraction may this breed in the hearts of the people of the land to hear that same thing
complained of as a great sin to day, and commended as a necessary duty to morrow? Is not all
the land presently called to mourn for the king’s sins, of which this is one, the designing
a conjunction with the malignant party, and giving them warrant to rise in arms for the defence
of the kingdom? Now, how shall they be able to reconcile these in their own minds,—at the same
time to mourn for that as a sin in the king, which they hear commended as the duty of the parliament—to
fast to day for that as the king’s sin, which they must go about to morrow as their own duty?
“Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in Askelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice.”
Heathens may rise in judgment against this generation Semper idem velle atque idem nolle hæc
demum sapientia est.(364) If any wise man be ubique et semper sibi par et idem,(365) what ought
a godly man to be?

Fourth Reason. That which is an uncertain mean of preservation of the kingdom, and a more certain
mean of destruction of religion, is utterly unlawful. But the employing and intrusting of all
men promiscuously, according as is holden out in the public resolutions, is at best an uncertain
mean of the preservation of the kingdom, and is a more certain mean of the destruction of religion.
Ergo, It is utterly unlawful. The first proposition cannot be denied. When any less good comes
in opposition with a greater good, the lesser good in that respect becomes evil. We may not
endanger certainly a greater good for the probable and uncertain attainment of the lesser.
The second proposition I know will be denied, as it was denied in the time of the engagement
by the committee of estates. They said, the danger of religion was not infallible, that it
might eventually fall out so, but not by any casualty. And thus it is pleaded now, that the
danger of religion is not inevitable, but that the danger of the kingdom is certain and so
these being laid in the balance together, we ought, to eschew a certain danger of the kingdom’s
destruction, rather hazard a probable danger of religion.

But we shall clear this and confirm the reason. 1. The danger of the kingdom is indeed great,
but it is not so certain and inevitable in case of not employing the malignant party, because
there may be some competency of power beside. Now the delivery and preservation of the kingdom
from this danger, by conjunction with that party, is rather improbable, because we have sentenced
ourselves to destruction if ever we should do such a thing again. We are standing under a curse,
whereto we have bound over ourselves, and beside, God is in a special manner pursuing that
generation, and hath raised up this enemy for their destruction so that we may with greater
probability expect to partake of their plagues, and to fall under our own curse, than to be
delivered, or be instruments of deliverance to the kingdom. Or, at the best, it is uncertain.
For what is more uncertain than the event of war? The battle in this sense may be said peculiarly
to belong to the Lord. Now, on the other hand, the danger of religion is certain and inevitable,
though not simply in itself and absolutely, (because the Lord doth in heaven and earth what
he pleases,) yet with a moral certainty and infallibility, which is often as great as physical
certainty. Suppose these men having the power of the sword, prevail, will they not employ it
according to their principles, and for attaining their own ends, which both are destructive
to religion? What is more certain than that men act and speak from the abundance of the heart,
when there is no outward restraint? It should be a great wonder if they who are so accustomed
to do evil, should cease to do evil, when they have power and convenience to do it. Power and
greatness hath corrupted many good men. Shall it convert them? Can men expect other fruits
from a tree than the nature of it yields? Will one seek figs on thorns, or grapes on thistles?
2. We do not see what defence it can be, for the present, to the kingdom, at least the godly
and well affected in the kingdom, who will be as much troubled in their persons and estates
by that party, as by the common enemy. It is known what threatenings the country is filled
with, which vent that inveterate malice and hatred to all the well affected in the kingdom,
which they have kept within their breast of a long time and now they find opportunity of outing
it. It is as clear as daylight, that the most part of all the secluded persons look upon these
that opposed them in the Engagement, and shut them out of places of trust, and capacity of
employment, as enemies, and as great enemies as the secretaries. And that we may know what
to expect when they have full power in their hands they have already so lifted up their head,
that no godly man can promise himself security in many places, and especially the faithful
gentlemen and people of the West,(366) who have given more proof of their faithfulness to the
cause and kingdom against the common enemy, than any others in the land, yet are they daily
suffering violence from these preservators of the kingdom, while they are sufferers under the
feet of the enemy. When they have no common enemy, whom, I beseech you, will they prey upon,
seeing they do it already while they have an enemy?

But it is replied, That none of the least suspicion are allowed to be in such trust and power,
as may be prejudicial to religion, and that an oath is to be taken of all, which is to be conceived
as particular, binding, and strict as possible.

Answer 1. What a manifest receding is it from former principles, that it is now conceived,
that all places of trust, excepting some few of eminent note, may be filled with secluded and
debarred persons, without the prejudice of religion! It is certain that most part of the officers,
nominated by the parliament and shires, are not only such, of whom there is just ground of
suspicion, but such as have been enemies by actual opposition to the cause of God, or known
underminers thereof. Can it be said in good earnest, that none, of whom is any suspicion, shall
have such trust as may be prejudicial? Sure we are, there are many just grounds of suspicion
and jealousy of general persons,(367) who have chief trust in our armies and this the public
judicatories are not ignorant of. 2. Oaths and covenants are but like green cords about Samson
to bind these men. Would we have them yet once again perjured? Then may we tender an oath to
them. Put power in their hand, and then make them swear to employ it well. ’Tis as ridiculous
as to give a madman a sword, and then persuade him to hurt none with it. There is no more capitulation
with such persons, retaining their old principles, than with the floods or winds. These whom
that sacred bond of covenant hath not tied, what oath can bind? Except you can change their
nature, do not swear them to good behaviour. Can a leopard change his spots?

Fifth Reason. That which gives great offence and scandal, and lays a stumbling-block in the
way, both of the people of the land and our enemies, especially in the way of the godly, that
is unlawful. But the present association and conjunction with all persons in the kingdom (excepting
a few, if any) is scandalous and offensive to the whole land, to the godly especially, and
also to the enemy. Therefore it is unlawful. The major(368) is beyond all exception, if we
consider how peremptory Christ and his apostles are in the point of offence, which yet few
Christians do consider. We ought not only to beware of the offence of the godly, but even of
wicked men, even of our blaspheming enemies. “Give no offence neither to the Jew nor Gentile,
nor to the church of God.” Christ would not offend and scandalize his malicious enemies. The
minor(369) is proved. 1. There is great offence given to the godly in the kingdom by the public
resolutions, concerning that conjunction with the malignant party, under the name and notion
of subjects. (1) Because it is known that the most part of them are tender in that point, what
fellowship they act with, and this hath been remonstrate unto the commission and committee
of estates, from several synods. Now the present resolution layeth that stumbling block in
their way, that they cannot act in the defence of the kingdom, because there is no way left
them for the performing of that duty, but that which they in their consciences are not satisfied
with. It is a sad necessity and snare that is put upon them, that they cannot perform their
bound duty, which they are most desirous of, without sin, because of the way that is taken.
(2) Is it not matter of offence and stumbling to them, to be necessitated by law to that which
was their affliction? The mixture that was in our armies was their grief, and their comfort
was that the judicatories were minting at(370) their duty to purge them. But now there is no
hope of attaining that, all doors are shut up by the public resolutions. (3) It undoubtedly
will weaken their hands, and make their hearts faint, so that they cannot pray with affection
and in faith, for a blessing upon such an army,(371) the predominant and leading part whereof
have been esteemed, and are really enemies to God and his people. (4) Is it not a great offence
that any thing should proceed from the public judicatories that shall lay a necessity upon
many godly in the land, to suffer, because they cannot in conscience go along with it? Next,
It scandalizeth the whole land. What may they think within themselves, to see such dissonancy
and disagreement between present and former resolutions and practices? What may they judge
of this inconstancy and levity of the commission, and thus be induced to give no respect and
reverence to them in their resolutions? Is it not, at least, a very great appearance of evil
to join with that party, that we did declare and repute, but some few weeks since, to be wicked
enemies of religion and the kingdom, and look henceforth on them as friends without so much
as any acknowledgment of their sin had from them? Shall not they be induced to put no difference
between the precious and the vile, not to discern between him that fears God and him that fears
him not, when the public resolutions put no difference? Then, how will it confirm all the malignant
party in their wickedness? May they not think our solemn vows and engagements, our rigid resolutions
and proceedings, were but all contrived and acted out of policy, and that interest and advantage,
and not conscience, principled them? Have they not an occasion given them to persecute all
the godly, and vent their long harboured malice against these who have been most zealous for
reformation and purging of the land? Nay, they are put in the capacity that they have desired,
for acting all their resolutions and accomplishing their designs. And last of all, the present
proceedings will not only encourage and animate the common enemy, but confirm them in all the
imputations and calumnies they have loaded our church with. May they not have ground to think,
that we are but driving on a politic design, and do not singly aim at God’s glory,—that it
is not grounds of conscience that act us, but some worldly interest, when they look upon the
inconstancy and changeableness of our way and course, which is so accommodated to occasions
and times? Can they think us men of conscience, that will join with all these men of blood,
before we will so much as speak with them? It is replied, that the scandal is taken, and not
given, which must not be stood upon in the case of a necessary duty. But, 1. We cleared, that
there is no necessity of that conjunction, therefore the scandal is given, seeing it is known
beforehand that it will be taken. 2. There are many grounds of offence given by the present
resolutions, as appears by what is said. If it were no more, it is a great appearance of evil,
it is very inductive of many evils, a most fit occasion of all that is spoken, and besides,
it is in itself sinful, contrary to God’s word, and our oaths.

Sixth Reason. That which makes glad all the wicked and enemies of God in the land, and sad
many, if not most part, of the godly, hath much appearance and evidence, if not certainty,
of evil. But the public resolutions and proceedings are such. Ergo,—Or thus—That which makes
glad all the wicked, and heightens the hopes and expectations of the malignant party, and makes
sad none almost but the godly, and discourages their spirits, that, proceeding from the public
judicatories, cannot be right and lawful. But so it is, that that which proceeds from the public
judicatories makes glad all the hearts of the wicked, and makes sad none almost but the godly,
heightens the hopes of the malignants, and makes them say, their day is coming, “lo we have
seen it,” and discourages the godly, and makes them almost say, “Our hope is cut off, our glory
is departed.” Ergo, It cannot be right, at least it hath a great and convincing appearance of evil.

This argument may be thought more popular than either philosophical or scriptural. But such
an argument the General Assembly, 1648, made use of against the Engagement. It is no ways imaginable,
how the wicked and ungodly in the land would so insult and rejoice in this day, if they saw
not some legible characters upon it, which were agreeable to their own principles and ends.
The children of God are, for the most part, led by the Spirit of God, and taught the way they
should choose, John xvi. 13, Psal. xxv. 12. So that readily they do not skunner(372) at courses
approven of God. But the children of the world being, at best, led by their own carnal minds
and senses and, for the most part, acted by a spirit of disobedience and enmity against God,
they use not to rejoice at things that do not suit with their carnal hearts, and are not engraven
with the character of that which is imprinted in their spirits. We see now that the wicked
walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted. And when the wicked rise, the righteous
is hidden, and when they bear rule, the people mourneth, but when righteous men are in authority,
the people do rejoice, and when the righteous rejoiceth, there is great glory, Ps. xii. 8,
Prov. xxviii. 12, and xxix. 2.

Seventh Reason. That which is the accomplishment and perfecting of the malignant design that
hath been driven on these years past, especially since the Unlawful Engagement, cannot be a
course approven of God. But the present course is the accomplishment of that design. Ergo,
That there hath been a design, for a long time driven and endeavoured, both at home and abroad,
with much policy and industry, by many turnings and windings, and by arguments of several kinds,
as the exigence of the times did furnish,—and that the design was, to have all such persons
in trust and power again, who had been secluded, that so they might compass their own ends—hath
not been denied hitherto and we are persuaded no man that fears God and observes the times,
is ignorant of it. Let the public papers of the treaty at Breda,(373) and the public papers
of this kingdom and church at home, be consulted. They bear witness for us. Was not the foundation
of it laid in Holland, and many of them in both nations, brought home with the king contrary
to public resolutions, and by the prevailing influence of some in the state, kept in the kingdom,
contrary to public resolutions? Was not the work of purging judicatories and armies obstructed,
the godly discountenanced and discouraged, great endeavours used to raise the malignants in
the South and in England, and, since the defeat, to raise all without exception in the North,
but when that could not be obtained, by the withstanding of honest men in the state? The levies
appointed, which would have been a considerable force for the defence of the kingdom, were
rendered wholly ineffectual, partly by taking money for men, partly by raising the malignant
party, and then pretending to go against them, they were pacified by an act of indemnity the
fruit and result of all which is, this present conjunction with them, and putting the power
of judicatories and armies in their hand. Thus the design is completed.

Eighth Reason. That which will increase the Lord’s indignation and controversy against the
land yet seven times more, that is very unlawful and unseasonable. But so it is that confederacy
and association with the people of these abominations, will increase the Lord’s indignation
and controversy seven times more. Ergo, The assumption was as manifest and uncontroverted as
the proposition, a few months ago, but it is begun now to be questioned by some, qui quod sciunt
nesciunt, quia sapiunt(374) But we shall evince it. 1. We are standing under such a sentence,
which we deliberately and sincerely passed upon ourselves, in the days of our vows to God,
that if we did ever any more join with the people of these abominations, the Lord would consume
us till there was no remnant. And this was not done in rashness but in sobriety, and with a
scripture precedent, Ezra ix. 12, 13.  2. Our experience hath made this clear to us, we never
did mingle ourselves among them, but the Lord did pursue us with indignation, and stamped that
sin, as in vive(375) characters, upon our judgment. God hath set upon that rock, that we have
so oft split upon, a remarkable beacon. Therefore we do not only in our solemn engagements,
bind ourselves over to a curse, in case of relapsing, but pass the sentence of great madness
and folly on ourselves. Piscator ictu sapit.(376) Experience makes fools wise, but it cannot
cure madness. Did not that mixture provoke God at Dunbar?(377) And is this the way to appease
him, to revolt more and more? 3. Conjunction and confederacy with that party, doth necessarily
infer a communion in blessings and plagues, we must cast in our lot with them, and have all
one purse. Now it hath been confessed and declared by this church, that God hath a notable
controversy with that party, that this enemy is in an eminent way to bear them down and crush
them. Therefore if we join with them, we must resolve to partake of their plagues, and have
that controversy pleaded against us also.

It is answered, That indignation need not be feared simply on this account, because the means
are lawful and necessary, else, if this have any force, it will conclude, that we should lie
down and do nothing, because God’s indignation is upon the whole land.

But we reply, 1. Though it be true, that this enemy is the rod of God’s indignation against
the whole land, yet it is certain to us, and hath been formerly unquestioned, that they are
raised up in a special way, to execute God’s wrath on malignants, and God doth arm them with
power in a signal manner for that end. Besides, the Lord’s anger and indignation against his
enemies is such, as will burn and none can quench it. It is of another nature than his wrath
against his own people, which is a hiding of his face for a moment. He corrects us in measure
and judgment, but leaves us not altogether unpunished. But he makes an end of other nations
especially these that rise up to actual enmity and hatred of his people, and shedding of their
blood. And therefore, if any man would not meet with wrath and sore displeasure, he would stand
at a distance with such as God hath appointed for destruction, we mean, as long as they carry
in their foreheads the mark of the beast. When God hath such a remarkable controversy against
a people, then “he that helpeth and he that is helped shall both fall together,” Isa. xxxi.
3. All that is in league with them, shall fall with them by the sword, Ezek. xxx. 5 and xxxii.
21. 2. Since it is known that the malignant party have not changed their principles, and so
they cannot but in prosecuting this war establish their old quarrel and follow it viz. the
king’s arbitrary power, the interest of man above God’s, or the kingdom’s interest, we leave
it to be judged impartially, whether or not these that associate with them, do espouse that
quarrel and interest, at least expose themselves to all that wrath and indignation, which hath
hitherto followed that quarrel, seeing they must have common blessings and curses. Will not
that quarrel holden up by most part of the army, be a wicked thing, an Achan in the camp, that
will make God turn away from it, and put Israel to shame?

Having thus established the truth, in the next place, we come to take off what objections are
made to the contrary.

First: It is argued from human authority. The uncontroverted and universal practice of all
nations in all generations, is, to employ all subjects in the case of necessary just defence.
It was the practice of our reformers, who took into the congregation, and received all that,
upon acknowledgment of their error, were willing to join, though they had been on the contrary
faction. Such an universal practice of Christian nations, though it be not the ground of our
faith, yet it is apparent that it cannot want reason for it.(378)

Answer 1: This will plead as much against the exceptions added in the answer to the query and
act of levy, for seeing other nations except none, in the case of necessary defence, why should
we except any? And if once we except any upon good and convincing grounds, upon the same ground
we ought to except far more. 2: Mr. Gillespie, in his Treatise of Miscellany Questions,(379)
makes mention that the city of Strasburg, 1529, made a defensive league with Zurich, Berne,
and Basil; because they were not only neighbours, but men of the same religion. And the Elector
of Saxony refused to take into confederacy those who differed from him in the point of the
Lord’s supper, lest such sad things should befall him, as befell these in Scripture, who used
any means of their own defence. This rule was good in thesi,(380) though in that case misapplied.
Now then, if they made conscience of choosing as the means of their own defence, a confederacy
with foreigners, may not the same ground lead us to a distance from our own countrymen, as
unqualified, who have nothing to commend them but that they are of the same nation, which is
nothing in point of conscience? 3: The practice of other nations that are not tender in many
greater points, cannot be very convincing, especially, when we consider that the Lord hath
made light to arise, in this particular, more bright than in former times. God hath taken occasion
of illustrating and commending many truths unto us in this generation, from the darkness of
error, and of making straight many rules, from the crookedness of men’s practice and walking.
Is not the Lord now performing the promise of purging out the rebels from among us and them
that transgress? God hath winked at former times of ignorance. But now, the Lord having cleared
his mind so to us, how great madness were it to forsake our own mercy, and despise the counsel
of God against our own souls? (1) As for that instance of our reformers there could not have
been any thing brought more prejudicial to that cause, and more advantageous for us. After
they were twice beaten by the French in Leith, and their forces scattered, and the leaders
and chief men of the congregation forced to retire to Stirling, John Knox, preaching upon the
eightieth Psalm, and searching the causes of God’s wrath against them, condescends upon this
as the chief cause, that they had received into their councils and forces such men as had formerly
opposed the congregation, and says, God never blest them since the Duke had come among them.
See Knox’s Chron.(381) (2) It cannot be showed that ever they took in a party and faction of
such men, but only some few persons, which, though it was not altogether justifiable, was yet
more excusable. But now the public resolutions hold forth a conjunction with all the bloody
murderers in the kingdom (excepting very few), and these without profession of repentance in
many, and without evidence of the reality of it almost in any. (3) These persons were not such
as had once joined with the congregation, and relapsed and became enemies to it, but they turned
to the protestant religion from popery. But ours is a different case.

Second. It is argued from scripture. Three scripture instances are brought to justify the present
proceedings. The first instance is from the practice of God’s people in the book of Judges,
who, when for defection from religion they were brought under oppression, yet when any governor
was raised by God for their defence, they gathered and came all out promiscuously, notwithstanding
a great part of them had been in the defection. Yet it is not found that their governors are
reproved for this, but rather sad curses on them that came not out to the work, Judges v. 15,
16, 17, 23. The second instance is from the story of the kings, very like the first. When,
after defection, gracious reforming kings arose, and had to do against foreign invasion, we
find them not debarring any subjects, but calling them out promiscuously. Neither is this laid
to their charge, that they called out such and such subjects, though we may perceive by the
story of the prophets, that the greater part of the body of the people were wicked, &c.

We answer to these two instances jointly. 1. We may by the like reason prove, that which is
as yet uncontroverted (we know not how long), that we ought at no time to make choice of instruments,
neither in case of prosecution of the cause and the invasion of others, nor yet in the time
when choice is to be had, and so, that all our former engagements, resolutions, and proceedings,
in the point of purging judicatories and armies, was superfluous and supererogatory, because
we read not that the reforming kings and judges, whenever they had an invasive war, and in
the times that they had greatest plenty and multitudes of people, did ever debar any of their
subjects from that service, but called them out promiscuously. Neither is this laid to their
charge, though we may perceive that the greater part of the people were wicked under the best
kings. Therefore we may lawfully employ any subjects of the kingdom in any of our wars. And
we may look upon all indifferently, without any discerning of persons that fear God and them
that fear him not, as in good capacity to be intrusted, even when otherwise we have choice
of good instruments. Certainly it follows, by parity of reason. For if you conclude that, from
the calling forth all promiscuously, and no reproof given for it, in the case of necessary
defence, then we may conclude, from the calling forth of all promiscuously, and in the case
of an invasive war, and no reproof recorded, that neither, in such a case, is it sinful to
make no difference, and that with strong reason, because it being more easy in such a case
to choose instruments, and no necessity pleading for it, if it had been sinful, the prophets
would have rather reproved it, then rebuked them for using such means in a case of necessity.
2. We may argue after that manner, that in the case of necessary just defence, there should
be no exceptions made at all of any persons, because we read not that the judges or kings debarred
any subjects, neither that they were rebuked for so doing. Therefore the instances militate
as much against the exceptions added in the answer to the query, as against us, unless it be
said that there were no such persons among that people, which were as groundless rashness as
to say that they gave all evidence of repentance. 3. Seeing the judges and the reforming kings
of Judah were so accurate and exact in cleaving to the law of God, and walking according to
it in all other things, it were more charitable and Christian judgment to say, that since they
are not reproved for any fault in this particular, that they were also exact to walk according
to the rule, (Deut. xxiii.) in so great a point as this. 4. Men’s practice is often lame and
crooked, and therefore must be examined according to the rule, but it were not fair dealing
to accommodate the rule to men’s practice. Seeing then we have so clear and perfect a rule
(Deut. xxiii.), which must judge both their practice and ours, we see not how their practice
can be obtruded as a rule upon us, which itself must be examined according to a common and
general rule. If it be not according to that law, we hold it to be sinful in itself, and so
no precedent for us; albeit the prophets did not reprove it in express and particular terms
(as they did not reprove man stealing, &c.), yet they rebuked it by consequence, in as far
as they rebuked the kings for association with wicked Israelites, which is condemned upon grounds
common to this very case in hand. 5. We see not any ground for such promiscuous calling forth
of the people by the judges. Barak’s business, as that of Jephthah and Gideon, was done by
no great multitudes of people, but a few choice men. 6. As the oppression was heavy and continued
long, so the repentance of the people was solemn, and their deliverance a fruit of this. 7.
Their case and ours is very different. None of Israel or Judah did fight against the profession
of the true religion, and shed the blood of their fellow subjects who were for the defence
of the same. Israel in the days of the judges, and Judah in the time of the reforming kings,
was not divided the one half against the other, upon opposition and defence of the true religion,
and the better part, after many experiences of the treachery and enmity of the most of the
worst part, solemnly engaged to God not to admit them to employment and trust, but upon real
evidence of repentance of which they should judge as in the sight of God. And last of all,
did ever Israel or Judah, in the days of their judges and reforming kings, admit into their
armies a party and faction of such as had given no real evidence of their abandoning their
former course, and such a party, as had been long studying to get the power of armies and judicatories
in their own hands for attaining their own ends? But all those are in our case.

The third instance from scripture, is from 1 Sam. xi., which is alleged to be a clear practice,
and stamped with divine approbation. In the case of Jabesh-Gilead besieged by a foreign enemy,
Saul commands all to come forth for defence of their brethren, under pain of a severe civil
censure. Now, what Saul did in this business, the Spirit of God is said to act him to it, and
what the people did, was from the fear of God, making them obey the king. And then Samuel in
this acting concurs jointly, and makes no opposition. And last of all, the people came forth
as one man, and yet (chap. x. 27) many men of Belial were among them, who malignantly opposed
Saul’s government, contrary to God’s revealed will.

To which we answer, 1. The stamp of divine approbation is not apparent to us, success doth
not prove it. Neither the Spirit coming on Saul, nor the fear of God falling on the people,
will import a divine approbation of all that was done in the managing that war. That motion
of the Spirit is no sanctifying motion, but a common, though extraordinary, impulse of Saul’s
spirit to the present work, which, doubtless, was in the king of Babylon, whom God raised up,
fitted and sent for the destruction of many nations albeit that work in his hand was iniquity.
That fear of God that fell upon the people, was but a fear of the king imprinted by God, and
it is more peculiarly attributed to God, because the people did despise and contemn him, which
makes their reverence and fear to be a more extraordinary thing upon a sudden. Then Samuel,
not opposing the course in hand, doth no more import his approbation of all that was done in
it, than his not reproving the men of Belial doth prove that he approved of their opposition.
2. It doth not appear that the men of Belial were a great faction and party, there is something
in ver. 12 speaks against it. It is not like the people would put a faction and party to death.
3. Neither doth it appear that they were in the army. For that which is said, that all the
people came out as one man, doth only import, that the body and generality of them came forth,
and that it was a wonder so many came forth so suddenly at the command of the king, who was
but mean and abject in their eyes. It is certain that all fencible persons were not present,
because the whole army being numbered, ver. 8, was but 330,000. And who will say there was
no more men in Israel, when they had 600,000 such, and above, before their coming into the
land? Seeing then, many have staid at home, it is most probable that these men of Belial would
not come, seeing they despised Saul’s mean and low condition in their heart and thought him
unfit to lead their armies, till he should prove what was in him. That which is said, ver.
12, doth not prove they were in the camp. It might be conveniently spoken of absent persons.
4. It is not certain that these men were wicked and scandalous in their conversation, haters
of godliness and of their brethren, but that they stood at distance only with Saul, in the
point of his election, which indeed was blame worthy, seeing God had revealed his mind in it.
And therefore they are called men of Belial, as Peter was called Satan, for opposing Christ’s
suffering.

Some other scriptures are alleged by some, as David’s employing of such men, &c., all which
are cleared in Mr. Gillespie’s Treatise of Miscellany Questions, quest. 14.

Third. It is argued from reason. And, 1. That which any is obliged to do for another’s preservation
by the law of God and nature, and which he cannot omit without the guilt of the other’s destruction,
that may the other lawfully require of him to do when he needs it, and when it may be done
without the undoing of a greater good. But so it is, that every subject is obliged by the law
of nature, oath and covenants, and the law of God, to endeavour to their power, the preservation
of the kingdom against unjust violence. And the safety of the kingdom stands in need of many
subjects’ assistance who were secluded. And it may be done without undoing a greater good than
is the preservation of religion. Ergo.

This argument hath an answer to it in the bosom of it. (1) We shortly deny the assumption,
in relation to the two last branches, both that the kingdom’s preservation stands in necessity
of these men’s help, and that their help tends not to the undoing of a greater good, seeing
there is no reason given to confirm these two points, wherein the nerve of the business lies.
We refer to a reason of our denial of them given p. 22.(382) (2) It is true that the obligation
to such a duty lies upon all, but that obligation is to be brought into act and exercise in
an orderly and qualified way, else what need any exceptions be in the act of levy? Excommunicated
persons are under the same obligation, yet the magistrate is not actually obliged to call such,
but rather to seclude them. Are not all bound to come to the sacrament who are church members?
Yet many are not in a capacity to come, and so ought neither to presume to come nor be admitted.
Are not all subjects obliged to defend the cause of God, and to prosecute it? And yet many,
because of their enmity to the cause of God, are actually incapable of employment in the defence
or prosecution thereof. (3) The law of nature is above all human laws and constitutions, they
must cede whenever they come in opposition to it. Salus populi is suprema lex(383) in relation
to these. But, in relation to the law of God, it is not so. Sometimes the law of nature must
yield to positive commands of God. Abraham must sacrifice his son at God’s command. The law
of nature obliges us to the preservation of ourselves, but it does not oblige to every mean
that may be found expedient to that end, unless it be supposed lawful and approven of God.
Therefore the Lord in his written word doth determine what means we may use for that end, and
what not. But, (4) We conceive that the law forbidding association and confederacy with known
wicked and ungodly persons, is included in the law of nature, as well as the law that obliges
us to self preservation. That is grounded on perpetual reason, as well as this. Nature bids
me preserve myself, and nature binds me to have one friend and foe with God. The heathens had
a notion of it. They observed, that Amphiaraus, a wise and virtuous man, was therefore swallowed
up in the earth with seven men and seven horses, because he had joined himself and associated
with Tydeus, Capaneus, and other wicked commanders marching to the siege of Thebe. Mr Gill.
Miscell. Quest. chap. 14 p. 171.(384)

2. The second reason is framed thus in hypothesi.(385) Such as are excluded are a great part,
if not the greater part of the remnant of the land, if rules of exclusion be extended impartially.
Now, they having their lives and liberties allowed them, must either in these things be insured
by the interposing of a competent power for their defence, or else they must have liberty to
act for themselves. But so it is, that we cannot interpose a competent power for their protection.
Ergo, They must have liberty to act for themselves. Nam qui dat vitam  dat necessaria ad vitam.(386)

We answer, (1) It is not certain that such as are excluded are the greater part of the land.
However, it is certain, that though the rule had been kept, and endeavours had been used to
walk according to it, yet many whom it excludes would have been taken in. There is a great
difference between endeavour of duty, and attaining its perfection. If the rule had not been
quite destroyed, so great offence could not have been taken, though it had not been strictly
urged in all particulars. (2) We still affirm, upon evident grounds to us, that there is a
power competent in the land, beside the malignant party, which may protect the land and insure
their lives and liberties. (3)(387) We are persuaded many of that party, who have been so deeply
involved in blood guiltiness and barbarous cruelties should neither have lives nor liberties
secured to them, because they ought not to be permitted to live. But the not taking away so
much guilty blood from the land by acts of justice, is the cause that so much innocent and
precious blood is now shed. Our rulers have pardoned that blood which God would not pardon,
and therefore would not pardon it to the land because they pardoned it to the murderers.

                               Section IV.

Some convinced of the unlawfulness of the public resolutions and proceedings, in reference
to the employing of the malignant party, yet do not find such clearness and satisfaction in
their own consciences as to forbid the subjects to concur in this war, and associate with the
army so constituted. Therefore it is needful to speak something to this point, That it is as
unlawful for the subjects to associate and join in arms with that party as it is for the parliament
to employ them. For these reasons:

1. The scriptures before cited against associations and confederacies with wicked and ungodly
men do prove this. The command prohibiting conjunction with them and conversing, &c. is common
both to magistrates and people, for the ground of it is common to both—The people’s insnaring,
helping of the ungodly, &c. It were strange doctrine to say, that it is not lawful for the
parliament to associate in war with the malignants, lest the people be insnared and yet it
is lawful for the people to associate with them upon the command of the parliament, seeing
the insnaring of the people hath a more immediate connexion with the people’s conjunction with
them nor(388) with the parliament’s resolution about it. Had it not been a transgression in
all the people to have joined with these men before the parliament’s resolution about it? How
then can their resolution intervening loose the people from their obligation to God’s command?
Shall it be no sin to me, because they sin before me? Can their going before me in the transgression,
exempt me from the transgression of that same law which obliges both them and me? 2. The people
were reproved for such associations as well as rulers, though they originated from the rulers.
The prophets speak to the whole body. “What hast thou to do in the way of Egypt?” &c. Jer.
ii. 18. And Isa. xxxi. “Wo to them that go down to Egypt.” Psal. cvi. “They mingled themselves,”
&c. The Lord instructed Isaiah, and in him all his own people, all the children whom God had
given him, saying, “Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A
confederacy,” Isa. viii. 12. When all the people were going on in such a mean of self defence,
the Lord instructed him and the disciples among whom the testimony was sealed, that they should
not walk in the way of this people. When Jehoshaphat was reproved for helping the ungodly,
were not all his people reproved that went with him? They were the helpers of the ungodly as
well as he. If Amaziah had refused to dismiss the army of Israel whom God was not with, doubtless
it had been the subject’s duty to testify against it, and refuse to concur and act in such
a fellowship.

3. If the association and conjunction with malignants be only the sin of the parliament, and
not the sin of the people, who do upon their command associate with them, then we cannot see
how people can be guilty of association with malignants at any time, and in any case. To join
with them in an ill cause is not lawful indeed. But neither may we join with good men in an
evil cause. Suppose then the cause be good and necessary (as no war is just if it be not necessary),
in what case or circumstances shall association with them be unlawful for the people? If it
be said, in case the magistrate command it not,  we think that strange divinity, that the sole
command of the magistrate should make that our duty, which in absence of his command is our
sin, and that not because of the absence of his command but from other perpetual grounds. Certainly,
whenever association with them is a sin, it is not that which makes it a sin, because the magistrate
commands it not, but because God forbids it. And it is as strange, that the unlawful and sinful
resolution of parliament should make that lawful to me which otherwise had been unlawful. It
is known that human laws oblige not, but as they have connexion with God’s word. Now if that
law, enjoining a confluence of all subjects for the defence of the kingdom, be contrary to
the word, in as far as it holds out a conjunction with malignant and bloody men, how can it
be lawful to me, in obedience to that ordinance, to associate with these men? If it be said
to be lawful in the case of necessity, that same necessity is as strong a plea for the magistrate’s
employing them, as for the people’s joining with them, and if it do not justify that, it cannot
excuse this. If the lawfulness of the mean must be measured by the justice and necessity of
the end, then certainly any mean shall be lawful in the case of just and necessary defence,
then we may employ Irish cut throats, then we may go to the devil for help, if expediency to
compass such a necessary and just end be the rule of the lawfulness of the mean.

4. The whole land is bound by the covenant and solemn engagement not to associate with the
malignant party. Ergo, It is as sinful for the people to join with them as for the magistrate
to employ them. Are we not all bound by covenant, to endeavour to bring malignants to condign
punishment, and to look on them as enemies? And is not conjunction and confederacy with them,
on the people’s part, as inconsistent in its own nature with that duty, as the magistrate’s
employing them is inconsistent with his covenanted duty? When all the people did solemnly engage
themselves not to join any more with the people of these abominations, was the meaning of it,
we shall not join until our rulers join first, or, we shall not join with them in an ill cause?
No indeed, but, we shall not employ them in a good cause, or join with any party of them in
it. If that engagement be upon every one in their station, let us consider what every man’s
station in the work is. The ruler’s station and calling is to choose instruments, and levy
forces for the defence thereof. The subjects station and calling is, to concur in that work,
by rising in defence of the cause and kingdom. Now, what did the subject then engage unto?
Certainly, unless we mock God, we must say, that as the magistrate engaged not to employ that
ungodly generation in a good cause, so the subject engaged not to join with any such party
even in a good cause. If this be not the meaning of our engagements and vows, we see not how
the subjects are in capacity to break them, as to that precise point of association.

In sum, All the reasons that are brought to prove the unlawfulness of the public resolutions,
may with a little variation be proportionably applied to this present question. Therefore we
add no more but a word to an objection or two.

Objection 1. A necessary duty, such as self preservation is, cannot be my sin. But it is the
subject’s necessary duty to rise in defence of the kingdom. Ergo,

Answer. A necessary duty cannot be a sin in itself, but it may be a sin in regard of some circumstances,
in which it ceases to be a necessary duty. It is a necessary duty to defend the kingdom. But
it is neither a duty nor necessary to do it in such a conjunction and fellowship, but rather
a sin. If I cannot preserve myself, but by an unlawful mean, then self preservation in such
circumstances is not my duty.

Objection 2. Jonathan did assist Saul in a war against the Philistines invading the land, and
no doubt many godly joined and died in battle. Now this is commended in scripture, as may be
seen in David’s funeral(389) upon them, although it was known that Saul was an hater of God’s
people and a persecutor, and that God had a controversy with him, and that these 3,000 that
assisted him against David were also ungodly and wicked men.

Answer 1. These scriptures speak nothing to commend that particular act of Jonathan’s conjunction
in war with his father. David in his epitaph speaks much to the commendation of both Saul and
Jonathan, as of excellent warriors, and of Jonathan as a kind and constant friend to him, but
there is nothing touched of that point. If that place be pressed, it will follow with much
more evidence, that Saul was as good a man as Jonathan, and that the people of God had great
loss in his death. But none of these must be pressed rigorously from a speech wherein he vents
his affection and grief. 2. Suppose the natural bond of Jonathan to Saul his father, and the
civil bonds of the people to Saul their king, did oblige them to join with him against the
common enemy, yet we think they ought not to have associated with these persecuting servants,
and the 3,000 that pursued David, but they ought to have pleaded for a purging of the army.
3. It is not probable that there were many godly persons employed in that army. David complains
of that time, (Psal. xii.) that the godly man ceased, and the faithful from among the children
of men and that the wicked walked round about when the vilest men were exalted. 4. Many of
the laws of God have not been much taken notice of, even by godly men, until the Lord hath
taken occasion to reprove them particularly, and so to mind(390) them of their duty. It is
likely the rule, (Deut. xxiii.) had not been considered till the time of Jehoshaphat and Amaziah.(391)
However it be, they had not so many solemn and particular ties of oaths, and covenants, and
vows, and confessions, as we have lying on us. 5. Let no man wonder that such particular escapes
are not always reproved in scripture, who considers that the fathers’ polygamy, though so frequent
among them, was not laid to their charge.

Objection 3. Separation from the army, because of the sin of magistrates, in employing such
unqualified persons, is paralleled to separation from church worship, because of the sin of
the false worshippers, and because the guides of the church do not exclude them. Answer 1.
We have particular commands about this, and many examples of it, which we have not about separation
from a true church, and lawful worship. Union and conjunction with an enemy renders conjunction,
and their fellowship, more dangerous and infectious than conjunction in a church state. Judah
might not separate from these Israelites in lawful ordinances, or from the ordinance [because]
of their presence. And yet they might not help them nor take help from them. Paul did not exhort
any to separate from the worship at Corinth, because of the presence of scandalous persons
at it and yet he charges them not to converse with such brethren as walk disorderly. Notwithstanding
of union in church and state, we may look on many as such as should not be joined with in some
other bonds. It is not lawful for a godly man to marry a profane woman, though a visible professor,
he may not join in such a tie, although he ought not to separate from church worship for her
presence. Besides, there is a conjunction in arms for one cause, as necessarily makes men partakers
of the same blessings and cursings, and therefore we should give the more diligent heed, when
we partake with them in lawful things. 3. Are we all tied, by such particular oaths and solemn
vows, not to join with the scandalous persons of a congregation in lawful worship, as we are,
not to associate with the malignant party in the defence of the cause of God, and kingdom?
It cannot be said. Therefore the cases are not paralleled.

We shall close all with a testimony of one of the Lord’s most faithful witnesses, Mr. Gillespie,
whose light in this case was once very seasonably held forth, and effectual to the preventing
of the declining of this land and we hope it will not be wholly forgotten by them, with whom
it had weight then. In his letter to the General Assembly, 1648, he sayeth, “I am not able
to express all the evils of compliance, they are so many. Sure I am, it were a hardening of
the malignant party, a wounding of the hearts of the godly, a great scandal to our brethren
of England, an infinite wronging of those who, from their affection to the covenant and cause
of God, have taken their life in their hand, who, as they have been strengthened and encouraged,
by the hearing of the zeal and integrity of the well affected in this kingdom, and how they
oppose the late Engagement, so they would be as much scandalized to hear of a compliance with
malignants now. Yea, all that hear of it may justly stand amazed at us, and look on us as a
people infatuated, that can take in our bosom the fiery serpents, that have stung us so sore.
But above all, that which would heighten these sins to the heavens is this, that it were not
only a horrible backsliding, but a backsliding into that very sin, which was especially pointed
at, and punished by the prevalency of the malignant party, God justly making them thorns and
scourges, who were taken in as friends, without any real evidence, or fruits of repentance.
Alas! shall we split twice upon this same rock, yea, run upon it, when God has set a beacon
on it? Shall we be so demented as to fall back to the same sin, which was engraven in great
letters in our late judgment? Yea, I may say, shall we thus out face and out dare the Almighty,
by protecting his and our enemies, when he is persecuting them, by making peace and friendship
with them, when the anger of the Lord is burning against them, by setting them on their feet,
when God hath cast them down? O! shall neither judgments nor deliverances make us wise? I must
here apply to our condition the words of Ezra, ‘And after all this is come upon us for our
evil deeds, and for our great trespasses, seeing that thou our God hast punished us less than
our iniquities deserve, and hath given such deliverance us this, should we again break thy
commandments, and join in affinity with the people of these abominations, wouldest thou not
be angry with us till thou hast consumed us, so that there should be no remnant nor escaping?’
O happy Scotland! if thou canst now improve aright, and not abuse this golden opportunity,
but if thou wilt help the ungodly, or love them that hate the Lord, wrath upon wrath, and woe
upon woe, shall be upon thee from the Lord.

“This testimony of a dying man (who expects to stand shortly before the tribunal of Christ)
I leave with you my reverend brethren,” &c. And again in his Testimony against association
and compliance with malignants, written two days before his death, he says, “Seeing now, in
all appearance, the time of my dissolution is very near, although I have, in my latter will,
declared my mind of public affairs, yet I have thought good to add this further testimony,
that I esteem the malignant party in these kingdoms the seed of the serpent, enemies to piety,
and Presbyterian government, (pretend what they will to the contrary,) a generation that have
not set God before them. With the malignants are to be joined the profane and scandalous, from
all which, as also from heresies, and errors, the Lord I trust is about to purge his churches.
I have often comforted myself, and still do, with the hopes of the Lord’s purging of this polluted
land, surely the Lord has begun, and will carry on that great work of mercy, and will purge
out the rebels. I know there will be always a mixture of hypocrites, but that cannot excuse
the conniving at gross and scandalous sinners. This purging work, which the Lord is about,
very many have directly opposed, and said, by their deeds, we will not be purged nor refined,
but we will be joining, and mixing ourselves with those whom the ministers preach against,
as malignant enemies to God and his cause. But let him that is filthy, be filthy still, and
let wisdom be justified of her children. I recommend to them that fear God, sadly and seriously
to consider, that the Holy Scripture doth plainly hold forth, 1. That the helping of the enemies
of God, or joining and mingling with wicked men, is a sin highly displeasing. 2. That this
sin hath ordinarily insnared God’s people into divers other sins. 3. That it hath been punished
of God with grievous judgments. 4. That utter destruction is to be feared, when a people, after
great mercies and judgments, relapse into this sin, Ezra ix. 13, 14. Upon the said and the
like grounds, for my own exoneration, that so necessary a truth want not the testimony of a
dying witness of Christ, also the unworthiest of many thousands, and that light may be held
forth, and warning given, I cannot be silent at this time, but speak by my pen, when I cannot
by my tongue; yea, now also by the pen of another, when I cannot by my own; seriously and in
the name of Jesus Christ, exhorting all that fear God, and make conscience of their ways, to
be very tender and circumspect, to watch and pray that they be not insnared in that great dangerous
sin of conjunction, or compliance with malignant or profane enemies of the truth, under whatsomever
prudential considerations it may be varnished over, which if men will do, and trust God in
his own way, they shall not only not repent it, but to their greater joy and peace of God’s
people, they shall see his work go on, and prosper gloriously. In witness to the premises,
I have subscribed the same with my hand at Kirkaldy,(392) December 15th, 1648. Mr. Frederick
Carmichael,(393) at Markinch, and Mr. Alex Moncreiff,(394) minister at Scoonie,

Sic Sub. GEORGE GILLESPIE.

When the Lord is punishing such a people against whom he hath a controversy, and a notable
controversy, every one that is found shall be thrust through: and every one joined with them
shall fall, Isa. xiii. 15. They partake in their judgment, not only because in a common calamity
all shares, (as in Ezek. xxi. 3.) but chiefly because joined with and partakers with these
whom God is pursuing; even as the strangers that join to the house of Jacob partake of her
blessings, chap. xiv. 1. To this purpose is Isa. xxxi. 2, 3, and Ezek. xxx. 5, 6, 8. The mingled
people and those that are in league with Egypt partake in her plagues, and those that uphold
that throne that God so visibly controverts with, their power shall come down, and all its
helpers shall be destroyed, as it is Jer. xxi. 12, 20, 24. And this is the great reason of
these many warnings to go out of Babylon, Jer. l. 8. and li. 6. Remember that passage, 2 Kings
i. 9, 10, 11, 12. The captain and messenger of the king speaks but a word in obedience to his
wicked master’s command, and the fifty are but with him, and speak not: but their master’s
judgment comes on them all.

Consider how many testimonies the wise king, in his Proverbs, gives against it. Chap. i. from
ver. 10, to 19. “My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. If they say, Come with us,
let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause. Let us swallow
them up alive as the grave, and whole as those that go down into the pit. We shall find all
precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil. Cast in thy lot among us, let us all
have one purse. My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path.
But certainly they would colour them over with fair pretences. Their purpose is to undo men,
especially godly men that classed and purged them. Yea, it is the profession of many, and they
scarce lie privily, or have so much wisdom as to conceal their designs till their fit opportunity,
but before the power be confirmed in their hand, they breathe out cruelty against all the innocent
in the land, and promise themselves great gain by it, and are already dividing their estates
among them, saying we “shall find all precious substance,” ver. 13. But, my son, if thou fear
God, though they entice thee with specious arguments of nature, and necessity, and country
privileges, yet consent not. Venture not thy stock in one vessel with them. Cast not in thy
lot among them. “Walk not in the way with them: refrain thy foot from their path:” for they
are not come to the height of iniquity, they are running on to it. And if thou join, thou wilt
cast thyself in a miserable snare; for either thou must go on with them to their designed and
professed evils, or be exposed to their cruelty.

Chap. ii. from ver. 10. to the end. And it will keep thee chaste to thy husband Christ Jesus,
and preserve thee from committing fornications with Egypt as Aholah and Aholibah, and joining
so nearly with the degenerated seed of Abraham, who are but as strangers. For come near their
house and paths, and they will lead thee to destruction with them or make thee a more miserable
life. But these that go to them return not again quickly. They are like fallen stars. Shall
they ever be set in the firmament again? It is safest to walk with good and righteous men,
for God’s blessing and promise is on them. His curse and threatening is on the wicked. Therefore
thou may fear wrath on that account, if thou join with them.

Chap. iv. ver. 14-20 “Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil
men. Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away. The way of the wicked is as darkness,
and they know not at what they stumble.” It was said, chap. iii. 23, that the man who keeps
wisdom and the fear of God in his heart, should walk in the way and not stumble. That safety
hath ease in it here. Their steps are not straitened, as when a man walks in steep and hazardous
places, who cannot choose but it will be. If a man enter into the path of wicked men, he must
either go along in their way with them, and then it is broad indeed, or, if he think to keep
a good conscience in it, he will be pinched and straitened. Therefore it is most free for the
mind and conscience to avoid and pass by that way “for they sleep not,” &c. They will never
be satisfied till they have done a mischief, they will live upon the ruins of the poor country.
And how wilt thou join in that? Or how can thou eschew it, if thou walk with them? If it were
no more, it is a suspected by path, that thou never travelled into. O pass by it, or, if thou
be entered, turn out of it. If thou wilt enter upon the apprehension of some light and duty
in it, know that it is but evening, the sun is setting, and thou wilt be benighted ere it be
long, and thou shalt stumble then, and not know whereupon, even on that, thou seest not now
and thinkest to eschew and pass by. Then from ver. 23, to the end, “Keep thy heart with all
diligence, for out of it are the issues of life, &c.” Except thou keep thy heart and whole
man, thou cannot escape falling into some temptation. O keep thy heart diligently on the knowledge
and lore of the truth. Take heed to thy words. Look not a squint but directly to that which
is good. Give not a squint look to any unlawful course, for the necessity or utility, it may
be that seems to attend it. But look straight on, and ponder well the way thou walkest in,
that thou run to no extremity either to one parte or other, that thou walk in the middle way
between profanity and error. Thou heldest these ways hitherto for extremes. Ponder, I beseech
thee, then, before thou walkest in any of them. See whether they be really come to thee, or
thou to them. Mark who is changed.

Chap. v. 8 to the 15. “Remove thy way far from her, and come not near the door of her house,
lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel. Lest strangers be filled
with thy wealth, and thy labours be in the house of a stranger. &c.” If thou would be safe
from snares, remove from the way and house of the strange woman. Thou must fall in Aholah and
Aholibah’s whoredoms (Ezek. xxiii.) except thou come not near them. If thou keep not from that
assembly and congregation, thou shall be “almost in all evil.” If thou join with them, thou
cannot but partake of their sins and plagues; and so thou shalt say after, when thou cannot
well mend it, “I was near gone, my steps almost gone,” and all the assembly of his people shall
witness to it.

Chap. vi. 16, 17, 18, 24, 25. “These six things doth the Lord hate, yea seven are an abomination
unto him. To keep thee from the strange woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange
woman. Lust not after her beauty in thine heart, neither let her take thee with her eye lids.”
This describes both our enemies, the malignant party and the sectarian. Pride, violence, cruelty,
lying, is the very character of the one. Flattery, beauty of pretended religion, false witnessing
and charging of the Lord’s people, and seeking to sow discord among these that were one in
heart and work, is the character of the other. Now, keep thee from both these abominations,
and do not think it is in thy power not to be infected with the contagion of their fellowship.
“Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burnt? Can one go on hot coals and
not burn his feet?” So whoever associates and goes in friendly to either of them “shall not
be innocent,” ver. 27, 28, 29.

Chap. vii. 14, &c. “I have peace offerings with me, this day have I paid my vows.” They pretend
religion on both sides. And our church says, the malignants have satisfied them, and repented,
even like the peace offerings and vows of the whore. She began with her devotion, that she
might with more liberty sin more, and have that pretence to cover it, and by means of her offerings,
she got a feast of the flesh, even as they by profession of repentance are admitted to trust,
and by offering for the like sin, a new sin is covered, and vows undertaken never to be kept.
Therefore take heed of these snares. “For she hath cast down many strong,” ver. 26. Many a
tall cedar hath fallen by that fellowship. It is the way to hell, ver. 27. See chap. viii. 13.

Chap. x. shows us the very different estate of the godly and wicked, both in regard of light
and knowledge concerning duty, and of blessings promised. Ver. 6, 9, 11, 20, 23. “Blessings
are upon the head of the just, but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. He that walketh
uprightly, walketh surely, but he that perverteth his ways, shall be known. The mouth of a
righteous man is a well of life, but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. The tongue
of the just is as choice silver, the heart of the wicked is little worth. It is as a sport
to a fool to do mischief but a man of understanding hath wisdom,” &c. Ver. 24, 25, 28, 31,
32, which show us, that if the Lord’s mind be revealed to any concerning the present courses,
it must be to his poor people that wait on him, and not to all the wicked and ungodly in the
land, who almost only are satisfied and clear in the course, who yet before were never satisfied.
And beside, though the Lord be chastising his people, yet one may join with them without fear
of wrath and indignation on that account, and with hope of partaking of their blessings, when
he cannot and dare not join with a wicked party pursued with wrath and indignation in the same
dispensation, which may be more clear from chap. xi. 3, 5, 8. “The integrity of the upright
shall guide them, but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them. The righteousness
of the perfect shall direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness. The righteous
is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.” And verses 10, 11, show the
different condition of people under wicked rulers and godly. All the wicked now rejoice. None
shouts but they. They think their day is come. The godly generally hang their head and are
discountenanced, even as Psal. xii. The 21 and 31 verses show, that when godly men are chastised
and punished in the earth for their sins, “much more the wicked,” especially when the godly
were chastised for partaking with them, according to 1 Pet. iv  17, 18, Isa. x  12, and xlix. 26.

Chap. xii. 13. “They are snared by the transgression of their lips.” Their ordinary common
speeches they drop out with, declare them, and make their cause, more hateful than other pretences,
it is covered with, would permit. Yea, they speak like the piercings of a sword, against the
godly, ver. 18. If our state and church had a lip of truth, they would speak always the same
thing. They would not carry in their talk and writings, as now every common understanding perceives.
We may find their writings made up of contradictions. For “a lying tongue is but for a moment,”
ver. 19. It is but for a moment indeed before the judicatory; and then out of doors it contradicts
itself, as in the mock repentances. But sorrow and anguish will come to these, who before they
would speak of terms of peace with one enemy, would associate in war with another. “But to
the counsellors of peace is joy,” ver. 20. The present course contradicts this. Ver. 26. “The
righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.” They
think these malignants better than the west country forces. They would condescend to any terms
to get their help, though it were to reverse the Act of Classes,(395) to give them indemnity,
yea, not so much as to condemn their way: but they will not so much as clear the state of the
quarrel, or choose a better general(396) for all their help. Their way seems good in their
own eyes, ver. 15. But it were wisdom to hearken to the counsel of the godly.

Chap. xiii. 10. “Only by pride cometh contention, but with the well-advised is wisdom.” There
is nothing keepeth up our contention and wars but pride: no party will condescend to another.
We will not say we have done wrong in bringing in the king. They will not say they have done
wrong in invading. But it were wisdom to fall lower and quit those interests. Ver. 16. “Every
prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly.” A wise man would count
before the war, if he can accomplish it: and if he cannot, then he would send messengers of
peace, and cede in all things he may without sin. If it be but more honour and wealth to our
king,(397) should we destroy the kingdom to purchase that? Our rash and abrupt proceedings
show our folly. Ver. 20. “He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools
shall be destroyed.” A man will be, must be, assimilated to his company, and then partake of
their judgment or blessings.

Chap. xiv. He that is accustomed to speak truth in private, will in his common speech be a
faithful witness in public: but a man accustomed to lying, dissembling, swearing in private,
will not stick to forswear himself, to make professions and vows contrary to his mind in public,
ver. 5. (and also chap. xii. 17. and vi. 19.) Such men seek wisdom and make a show of religion,
but find it not; whereas it is easy to godly men to find it, to find repentance and salvation,
ver. 6. Go away from foolish men, and break off society with ungodly men. Be not privy to their
counsels. Use them not as special friends, when thou perceivest that all means are used in
vain to reclaim them from their damnable way and principles, ver. 7. The knowledge a godly
man hath serves to direct his way, and is given of God for it. But all the wit and skill of
such wicked men is deceit. They themselves are beguiled by it in opinion, and practice, and
hope. And they also beguile others, ver. 8. Sin makes fools agree: but among the righteous,
that which is good makes agreement (in the old translation(398)), ver. 9. It is only evil will
unite all the wicked in the land as one man. For it is a sport to them to do mischief, chap.
x. 23. Albeit our way seem right in our eyes, yet because it is a backsliding way, and departing
from unquestionably right rules, the end will be death, and we will be filled with our own
devices. O! it shall be bitter in the belly of all godly men when they have eaten it, ver.
12, 14. and chap. i. 31. “The simple believeth every word;” giveth credit to every vain word
that is spoken. But a prudent man looketh well to men’s goings, ponders and examines whether
their professions and practices agree, what weight is in their words, by the inspection of
their deeds, and of their ordinary speaking, and does not account a coined word before a judicatory
sufficient to testify repentance. And as he gives not present credit to their professions,
who have so often proven treacherous, so he himself scares at every appearance of evil, and
keeps himself from it; whereas foolish souls rage and are confident, think any thing lawful
if they can have any pretence for it, or use of it, ver. 15, 16. Then, what a great difference
is between wicked men and godly men, both in their lot, when God is correcting both, and in
their disposition! Wisdom that rests in the one’s heart, is manifested; wickedness in the other’s
heart appears also. In the midst of such men there is no other thing, ver. 32, 33.

Chap. xv. 8, (“The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord; but the prayer of
the upright is his delight,”) expresses how provoking a thing the outward professions and sacrifices
of wicked men, continuing in their wickedness; what an abomination that commonly called public
repentance, or ecclesiastical holiness is, when men are visibly unholy and ungodly in their
conversation. And therefore he pleaded always with that people, that his soul abhorred their
external ceremonies, because of the uncleanness of their hands. He pleaded that he never commanded
them, though indeed he did command them. Yet those  were aberrations and departings from the
express rule and command,—to accept or be pleased with these sacrifices and ceremonies,—when
there was no evidence of real repentance. To this purpose are chap. xxi. 4, 27; Isa. i. 11;
and lxvi. 3; Jer. vi. 20; and vii. 22; Amos v. 22,—all which show that it is but a mocking
of the Lord, and perverting of his law, and profaning of his ordinances, to accept the profession
of repentance in those who walk contrary thereto, and to count them ecclesiastically holy enough,
who say, they repent, though a thousand actions witness the contrary. Of such the Lord says,
“What hast thou to do to take my covenant in thy mouth, seeing thou hatest to be reformed?”
Psal. l. 16, 17. They have no right to it. They should not be admitted to it for it is a taking
the Lord’s name in vain. The l6th verse tells us, that it had been better to possess our own
land in quietness than to venture what we have for the uncertain conquest of England, and restitution
of the king parallel with Eccl. iv. 8.

Chap. xvi. 7. “When a man’s ways please the Lord he maketh even his enemies to be at peace
with him.” Can our States(399) way then please the Lord, seeing they cannot find the way of
peace,—they will not walk in it, and seeing they make the godly in the land to fall out with
them, and none to be at peace but the wicked, who may thereby get opportunity to crush the
godly? Ver. 17 “The highway of the upright is to depart from evil.” This is the highway only,
to depart from evil, not carnal policies, nor advantages. He thinks the stepping aside to any
of these is not the highway. Can then men change their way, and go cross to it and keep the
right way in both? No, the godly have this high way and keep it. Chap. xvii. 11. “An evil man
seeketh only rebellion, therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.” Evil men seek
only rebellion, and delight in no other thing. But the King of kings shall send a cruel messenger,
he arms men with wrath and power against them. Ver. 13, speaketh sadly to the English, and
to our State, that rewarded the west country evil for good. Ver. 14, 19, tell us how we should
advise before we begin a war, and leave no mean of composing difference and state unessayed.
We did more in it than the English, but not all we might have done. Ver. 15, with chap. xviii.
5, is a dreadful sentence against the public judicatories, that all their resolutions, papers,
and practices, justify the wicked and ungodly as honest faithful men, and condemn all approven
faithful men, that cannot go along in such courses, or were earnest to have them repent, as
both malignants and sectaries. Do they not pronounce all malignants friends, and absolve them
from the sentences and classes they stand under? And do they not put the godly in their place?
They relax the punishment of the one, and impute transgression to the other, and so bring them
under a law. See Exod. xxiii. 7, Prov. xxiv. 24 , Isa. v. 23, and the 29th verse of this chapter.
It is not good to punish godly men, who have given constant proof of their integrity, for abstaining
from such a course, at least having so much appearance of evil, that many distinctions will
never make the multitude to believe that we are walking according to former principles, because
their sense observes the quite contrary practices, &c.

Chap. xviii. 2, (“A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover
itself”) shows that if the present cause and course were of God, and tended so much to his
glory, fools or wicked men would have no such delight in it. For they delight in nothing but
what is agreeable to their humour, to discover themselves, &c. Ver. 3 gives the true reason,
why our public judicatories and armies are so base and contemptible, why contempt and shame
is poured on them, because, “when the wicked comes, then also comes contempt, and with the
vile man reproach.” Ver. 13 “He that answereth a cause before he hears it, it is folly and
shame unto him.” Many pass peremptory sentence upon the honest party in the west before they
hear all parties, and be thoroughly informed, and this is a folly and shame to them. They hear
the state and church, and what they can say for their way, and indeed they seem just, because
they are first in with their cause, and they will not hear another. But he that comes after
will make inquiry, and discover those fallacies. Ver. 24 “There is a friend that sticketh closer
than a brother.” A godly neighbour, not so near in natural bonds to us, that is a surer friend
than many brethren in the flesh. These bonds of country and kindred, should all cede to God’s
interest. See chap. xvii. 17.

Chap. xix. 22. “A man’s desire is his kindness and a poor man is better than a liar.” The godly
that cannot concur in the public cause, being disabled, through an invincible impediment of
sin lying in the way and means made use of, are better friends, and have more real good will
to the establishment and peace of the land, than any ungodly man, let him be never so forward
in the present course. Ver. 10. Pleasure and its attendants are not comely for a wicked man,
(i.e. a foolish man) much less for a servant, (i.e. men enthralled in their lusts,) to rule
over princes (i.e. godly men, highly privileged by God). All things that are good do ill become
them, but worst of all to have power and superiority over good men, ver. 25, joined with chap.
xxi. 11. Ringleaders of wickedness, refractory and incorrigible persons, should have been made
examples to others, and this would have prevented much mischief. The scripture gives ground
for putting difference between the scorner and simple, seducers and seduced.

Chap. xx. 6, xxi. 2, and xvi. 2. “Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness, but a
faithful man who can find?” It is no great wonder that malignants say they repent, and the
state and church say they keep the same principles. For who will say any evil of himself? Ver.
8. Magistrates should scatter away evil men with their countenance, by denying it to them,
and looking down on them. How, then, do our rulers gather them? Ver. 3, shows that war and
strife should not be kept up but in extreme necessity. Fools “will be meddling.” Ver. 11, shows
that the best way of judging of men is by their doings and fruits, not strained words and confessions.
But those who, upon a bare profession, pronounce a notour(400) malignant a friend, having no
proof of his integrity, and will not have any judged such, but such as judicially are debarred,
yet contrary to all the testimony of works and fruits, judge and condemn honest men as traitors,
though not judicially convicted. Certainly divers measures are an abomination to the Lord,
as in ver. 10. Then in ver. 25 sacrilege is described, and covered perjury, which is a snare
to the soul that commits it. He “devoureth that which is holy,” i.e. applieth to a common use
these things God hath set apart, and commanded to be kept holy, as our profaning of repentance
and absolution, by casting such pearls to swine, and for our own advantage, making a cloak
of them to bring in wicked men, contrary to the very nature and institution of the ordinance,
also our prostituting of our covenant and cause, most holy things to maintain unholy or common
interests,—our committing his holy things to them that will devour them. “And after vows to
make inquiry,” to dispute now, that we did not bind ourselves in the case of necessity, not
to employ wicked men, whereas the ground is perpetual and holds in all cases, shows either
temerity, in swearing,—or impiety, in inquiring afterward and changing. See Deut. xxiii. 21.
Then ver. 26. “A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.” O that
our magistrates were so wise! Is the act of levy a scattering of the wicked? Is the act of
indemnity a bringing the wheel over them? Psal. ci. 8. “I will early destroy,” &c.

In Chap. xxi. 10. “The soul of the wicked desireth evil, his neighbour findeth no favour in
his eyes.” The wicked’s principles can carry nowhere but to evil, and to do evil to good men.
Ver. 8. His way and life is full of horrible and tragical chances. But a good man’s work is
easy and pleasant, directs to a good and peaceable end, Isa. xxvi. 7. Ver. 12. A righteous
man should have his wit about him, to consider ungodly houses and families, and persons that
God hath visible controversies with, that he may not communicate with them in their judgments.
Ver. 16. It is a sad wandering out of the way, when a man leaves the congregation of the living
to abide among the dead,—dead in sins and appointed to death. It is a great judgment as well
as sin. Ver. 27, with the 4, and places before cited, show how abominable the external professions
and pretences of wicked men are, when contradicted by their practice, especially if they do
it but out of a wicked mind, when they intend to effect some mischief, under the colour of
repentance and being reconciled to the church, as Absalom’s vow at Hebron, as Balaam and Balak
and the Pharisees, who under pretence of long prayers devoured widows’ houses, as Jezebel’s
fast, and as the people, (Isa. lviii. 4.) who fasted for strife and debate, and to strike with
the fist of wickedness. All men know that the church is the ladder to step up upon to go to
preferment, and repentance the door to enter to places of trust.

Chap. xxii. 3.  But simple idiots and blind worldlings go on headlong, and dread nothing, and
are punished, ver. 5.  Most grievous plagues and punishments and all manner of unhappiness
encumbereth their wicked life. Therefore he that would keep himself pure and clean (1 John
v. 18.), and save his own soul, shall be far from them, shall keep himself far from such people.
He prays with Job, “Let their counsel be far from me.” Job xxi. 16, 17.  Because their good
is not in their hand, their candle is oft put out, &c.  And he resolves with Jacob, My soul
shall not enter into their secret, to have such intimacy with them as join counsels with them,
Gen. xlix. 6.  And ver. 10, 11, Cast out of thy company, family, jurisdiction, the scorner
that contemns the godly men, and mocks instruction for such men are infectious, and able to
corrupt all they converse with.  But cast him out, and contention shall go out with him. It
is such only that mars the union of the godly, that stirs up strife, and foments divisions.
Thou shalt have more peace, and be more free from sin and shame.  But sound hearted upright
men, who deal faithfully, not to please but to profit,—you should choose these to intrust and
rely upon, those should be friends of kings.  Ver. 14.  As a harlot’s allurements are like
pits to catch men, so the allurements of wicked ungodly men, their power, policy, &c., and
their fair speeches and flatteries, are a deep ditch to catch men in to this spiritual whoredom
and fornication spoken of.  Ezek. xxiii. And he whom God is provoked with, by former wickedness,
falls into it, Eccl. vii. 26,  Ver. 24, 25.  If we may not converse with a furious passionate
man, how then with men of blood, enraged, whose inveterate malice hath now occasion to vent
against all the godly?  For thou wilt learn his ways, as we have always seen it by experience,
and thou wilt get a snare to thy soul.  If thou go not in his ways you cannot agree, you will
fall out and quarrel, and that is a snare to thee.  Ver. 28.  “Remove not the ancient land-mark
which thy fathers have set.”  If it be so dreadful and accursed to remove our neighbour’s marks
and bounds, O! how much more to change and alter God’s land-mark, his privileges, oaths and
covenants, &c.  And chap. xxiii. 10, 11, Deut. xix. 14 and xxvii. 17.

Chap. xxiii. 1, 7.  “When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before
thee.  For as he thinketh in his heart so is he,” &c.  Consider diligently what men are, not
what they pretend and seem to be.  For as they think, so are they, not as they pretend with
their tongue and countenance, but as they think in their heart, which is better evidenced by
their common and habitual speaking and walking, than any deliberate and resolved profession
contrived of purpose. But if thou consider not this, the morsel thou hast eaten thou shalt
vomit up.  Thou shalt dearly pay for thy credulity, and lose all thy sweet words. Ver. 23.
“Buy the truth and sell it not,” &c.  Do not we sell the truth, and cause, and all, into the
hands of the enemies of all?  whereas we ought to ransom the kingdom’s liberty and religious
interest, with the loss of all extrinsic interest that does but concern the accession of one’s
honour. Yet we sell, endanger, and venture all for that.

Chap. xxiv. 1.  “Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire thou to be with them.”
Godly men’s hearts are often tickled to be acquainted with, in league and friendship with wicked
men, when they have power, that they may not be hurt by them.  But seeing there is no society
between light and darkness, let not the godly desire to be with them, (as in chap. xxiii. 17,)
but rather to be in God’s fear always.  That is good company. The reason is (verse 2,) their
heart studies the destruction of the godly, (why then would thou walk with thine enemy?) and
you shall hear nothing but mischief on their lips.  Ver. 12.  It is not according to men’s
words but works they should be judged.  And why do not we follow that rule in our judging?
Do we mock God as one mocks another? Job xxxiv. 11, Psal. lxii. 12, Jer. xxxii. 19, Rom. ii.
6, Ver. 21, &c.  Men given to change, false deceitful men, meddle not with such, if thou either
fear God or respect man. For such will be sure to no interest but their own.  Then calamity
shall come suddenly. Therefore have nothing to do with them.  For “who knoweth the ruin of
them both,” of them and all other wicked men, or of both them and the king, if wicked?  Also
to the wise and godly this belongs, “It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment,”
whether he be king or nobleman.  A righteous state respects not the person of the prince and
mighty, saith Job.  But he that says to the righteous, you are wicked sectaries, and also malignants,
because ye will not approve all their resolutions, and to the wicked, “thou art righteous,”
to the malignants, you are the honest men, the blessed of the Lord,—who did ever to this day
fall under Meroz’ curse, should the people approve him?  No certainly, “Him shall the people
curse, and the nations shall abhor him,” or them.  But a blessing on them that would reprove
our sins and search them out, ver. 25.  The malignant party are even speaking so as the classers
and purgers did to us, even so will we do to them.  But God will render to them according to
their work, ver. 29.

Chap. xxv. 2. “It is the honour of kings to search out a matter.”  It is a king and judge’s
glory to search out a matter, to try dissemblers before they trust them. God’s glory is to
pardon.  Man’s glory is to administer justice impartially. Ver. 4, 5, show what need there
is of purging places of trust, especially about the king. Dross cannot be melted.  Take what
pains you will, it will not convert into a vessel and become useful.  This mixed in, obstructs
all equity, justice, and piety, where it is.  The ruler should be the refiner to purge away
this dross, and the army, or judicatory, or kingdom, is a vessel.  You shall never get a fined
vessel for use and service till you purge away the dross, Psal. ci. 4.  Then, (ver. 8) we should
follow peace with all men as much as is possible, never to begin strife or draw the sluice
of contention.  But if we be wronged, we should not for all that go out hastily to strife,
till, 1. The justice and equity of the cause appear, 2. That the matter whereabout we contend
be of great moment, a ground to found a war upon, 3. That we first use all means of peace and
agreement possible, 4. That we overmatch not ourselves with those who are too strong for us,
(see chap. xvii. 14) “lest” thou be brought to that extremity that “thou know not what to do.”
Thus Christ adviseth, Luke xiv. 31.  I am persuaded this would plead much in reason to yield
security to England, so be it our wrong were repaired, and no more done.  Ver. 19 shows what
the employment of unfaithful men, who mean nothing less than they pretend, is.  They fail when
most is expected, and hurt beside, as Job’s friends, chap. vi. 15.  And ver. 26. A righteous
and upright man, consenting with a wicked man in sin, or, through fear of him, not daring to
do his duty, turning to him and his way, or dallying and flattering him in his iniquity, is
like “a troubled fountain,” is not good and profitable for edification nor correction, having
troubled the purity of his soul through the mud of carnal respects and interests.  Corruption
within is the mire, the wicked’s seducements are like the beast’s trampling it with his foot.
And he is like a corrupt, infected, and poisoned fountain, more ready to infect and draw others
by his example. Ver. 27. A man should not seek honour and preferment that is base and shameful.
None of the trees longed for sovereignty but the bramble.

Chap. xxvi.  1.  “As snow in summer and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.”
It is as unseemly, prodigious, and destructive a thing, to give honours, promotions, and trust
to a wicked man, as snow and much rain in harvest, a reproach and punishment more becomes him
than honour, the reward of goodness (as ver. 3), a whip, rod, and bridle are more for him,
to restrain him from wrong and provoke him to goodness. Ver. 6.  He that commits an errand
or business to a wicked man and intrusts him with it, is as unwise in so doing, as if he did
cut off the messenger’s feet he sent.  He deprives himself of the means to compass it. He sends
a lame man to run an errand.  He is punished by himself as if he had cut off his own feet,
and procureth sorrow and discontent to himself, as if he were compelled to drink nothing but
what is contrary to his stomach.  Ver. 7.  All good speeches halt and limp in evil men’s mouths,
for there is no constancy in their mouths.  Within they are very rottenness.  “Out of the same
mouth come blessing and cursing,” James iii. 10.  Their very words agree not, the public and
extraordinary crosses the private and ordinary.  And their actions have less harmony with their
words.  Professing they know God, in works they deny him &c. Ver. 8. To give a madman a weapon,
what else is it but to murder? To bring shot to an ordinance which may do much mischief to
himself and others, is to be accessory to that mischief. So to give “honour to a fool.” He
hath given power to them and put them in a capacity to do evil, and set them on work again
to perfect their designs against good men. Ver. 9. As a drunken man, with a thorn in his hand,
can make no use of it, but to hurt himself and others, so wicked men’s good speeches and fair
professions commonly tend to some mischief. These but cover their evil designs and yet the
covering is shorter than that it can hide them. Ver. 10. Wicked rulers (look the margin(401))
grieve and molest the subjects: and the means to effect this is, to employ the fool and transgressor,
to give offices and countenance to evil men, which may be instruments of their lust, so Abimelech,
Judges ix. 4, so Jezebel, 1 Kings xxi. 10, so in Neh. vi. 12. Ver. 11. The dog, feeling his
stomach surcharged, goes to the grass,—as our malignants to profess repentance,—and casts up
that which troubles him, by a feigned confession. But because there is no change in his nature,
he is inwardly stirred by his old principles to lick up that vomit, to commit and practise
what he professed repentance for, yea, and to profess the same he pretended sorrow for. When
power is confirmed in their hand they will return to their folly. Ver. 17. What else is our
interposing ourselves in the king’s quarrel concerning England, though we have interest in
it to endeavour it in a peaceable way, if he were fit for it, yet in comparison of our kingdom
and religion’s safety, which may be ruined by war, it is no such matter as belongeth to us.
And so it falls out, we are like a man taking a dog by the ears to hold him, we have raised
up many enemies, and provoked them to bite us. We cannot hold them long from destroying him,
and we provoke them more by holding them, in espousing his quarrel, as Jehoshaphat joining
with Ahab. We had done well to interpose ourselves between the king and them to make peace,
but to side with one party was not well done. Verses 18, 19. Furious and bloody men take all
opportunities to hurt others, especially good men, and so deceive those employed. But they
do it under a pretence. As a scorner reproacheth under a pretence of sport, so they, under
other pretences, of wrongs done, of the country’s defence, &c. Verses 20, 24, show the way
to prevent trouble and keep peace. As a contentious turbulent person would inflame a whole
country and put them by the ears, so a person, though not contentious in his own nature, yet
having many contentious interests following him, which he will not quit, or commit to God’s
providence, as our king was. O it is the destruction of a nation to have such a person among
them. He hath broken the peace of two kingdoms. Verses 23, 24, 25, 26. Burning lips, hot and
great words of love and friendship, and a wicked heart revenging its enmity, and minding nothing
less than what is spoken, is like a potsherd, a drossy piece covered over with the fairding(402)
of hypocrisy, or, like a sepulchre garnished and painted, he dissembles and speaks vanity,
and flatters. Psal. xii. 3. But he lays up his wicked purposes close within him till a time
of venting them. Therefore when he speaks so fair and courteously, be not confident of him,
trust him not too far till thou have proof of his reality. Put not thyself and thy dearest
interests into his mercy. This is wisdom, and not want of charity, Jer. xii. 6; Micah vii.
5. Cain, Joab, and Judas, are proofs of this. It may be covered a time, but not long. Naturam
expellas furca licet, usque recurret.(403) All the world shall be witness of it, Psal. cxxv.
So then, (ver 21.) the calumniator and false accuser, who openly professes his hatred and malice,
and the flatterer that seems to be moved with love, both of them produce one effect, viz.,
ruin and calamity.

Chap. xxvii. Their wrath against all the godly, for their faithful secluding and purging them
out of places of trust, is weighty and insupportable like the sand of the sea. It will crush
them under it if God support not. It is like a swelling river, or a high spring tide, it goes
over all banks, since the state and church have drawn the sluice and let it out. But when it
is joined with envy and malice, against godliness and piety itself, who can stand before that?
No means can quench that heat. Ver. 6: Faithful men’s reproofs, remonstrances, and warnings,
applied in love and compassion, are better than an enemy’s kisses and flatteries, than his
oils and ointments are. Therefore we would pray against the one, and for the other, that God
would smite us with the mouth of the righteous, but keep us from the dainties of the wicked
Joabs, Judases, and Ahithophels. Verse 8 speaks sadly against ministers that withdraw from
their charges so unnecessarily, as a bird that wandereth too long from her nest: the young
starve for cold or famine, or are made a prey. So these who, having no necessary call to be
elsewhere, especially not being members of the Commission, yet stay not with their flocks,
are guilty of their soul’s ruin. Ver. 10: O how doth this speak against the present course
of judicatories! They have forsaken their old faithful friends, when they proved ever constant,
and have gone in to their wicked countrymen’s house in the day of their calamity. But a neighbour
in affection and piety, is nearer than a brother in flesh and near in habitation.

Chap. xxviii. 1: “The wicked fleeth when no man pursueth; but the righteous is bold as a lion.”
Wicked men are now chosen for stoutness and courage, but they have no sure foundation for it.
It is but like the rage and temerity of a madman or drunkard. But godly men, once satisfied
in grounds of conscience about their duty, would have been bold as lions. A good conscience
would have made them bold, Psal. cxii. 7, 8, Lev. xxvi. 36. Now, ver. 2, behold the punishment
of our sins, our governors are changed, there is almost a total alteration, and we are faces
about, which cannot but bring ruin to the land, especially when men of understanding and piety
are shut out. Ver. 4, with chap. xxix. 27: It is a great point and argument of declining and
forsaking the law of God, when men praise the wicked, change their names though they themselves
be not changed, and leave off contending with, or declaring against them, and do rather plead
for them. But godly men, that keep the law, contend with, discountenance, and oppose them,
as David, “I hate them that hate thee,” and earnestly contend with them. Thus they are kept
from partaking with other men’s sins. Ver. 5: It is not very likely that all the ungodly should
now understand the duty of the times and discern the right way, and that so many that fear
God understand it not, seeing the Lord’s secret is revealed to them, Psal. xxv. 14. Verses
6, 7: A poor man, and weak means, if they be of upright men, are better and stronger than many
rich and strong perverters. A companion of evil men and a keeper of the law agree not in one
person; the one is an honour, the other a shame to all that have interest in them. Ver. 9:
Their prayers and professions are abomination, no acceptation of those that turn away their
ears from obedience to the law, who walk contrary to it. Ver. 10: These cunning and crafty
men that have enticed some godly men, and led them on in the present course, shall themselves
smart for it, when the godly seduced shall see good things after all this. Ver. 12: When wicked
men have power and trust, good men hide and retire themselves from such a congregation or assembly
of the wicked. See chap. x. 10, 11. Should we thus choose our own plague, tyranny, oppression,
calamity, and misery, and cast away our own glory? Then, (ver. 13) repentance requires time
and ingenuous confession, and real forsaking. If both these join not, it is but a covering
and hiding of sin. If a man confess, and yet walk and continue in them, he is but using his
confession as a covering to retain his sins, and such shall not find mercy of God, or prosper
before men. Ver. 14: It is not so despisable a thing to fear alway, and to be very jealous
of sin as it is now made. It is counted a reproach to have any scruples at the present course.
But happy is he that abstaineth from all appearance of evil, but he that emboldeneth himself,
and will not question any thing that makes for advantage, falls into mischief. Ver. 15, 17
show the lamentable condition of a people under wicked rulers. They are beasts and not men
towards the people, especially towards the best, Dan. vii. 4, 5, Zeph. iii. 3. Ver. 17: How
doth that agree with our sparing of bloody men, of our soliciting for their impunity, of our
pardoning them? Are they not, by the appointment of God’s law, ordained for destruction, and
haste to it? Should any then stay them? Should they not then far less employ them? And, (ver.
24) if it be so heinous to take our father’s goods upon this pretence, because they are our
own, how much more sacrilege is it to rob God of his interests, and give over his money to
bankrupts, and say it is no transgression to rob the land of its defence, and make them naked,
as Ahaz his confederacy did? Certainly it is murder. Ver. 28 and chap. xxix. 2 and xi. 12 and
xxviii. 28 are to one purpose. We have forsaken our own mercy and wronged our own souls; and
destroyed ourselves in choosing our own judgment, and making our own rod to beat us withal.
Chap. xxix. 1: We being so often reproved by his word and providence for the sin of association
with the wicked, and being so lately punished for it, and having so lately reproved ourselves
for it in our declarations and fasts, yet to harden our necks, what can we expect but utter
destruction, and that without remedy, as we sentenced ourselves? Ezra ix. 13 and xiv. 13, Isa.
xxx. 13, 14. Shall not this iniquity be to us a breach ready to fall, even this iniquity of
going down to Egypt for help, &c. Then, (ver. 6) there is a snare to entrap thy feet in the
sins of the wicked; if thou be joined with them, thou cannot well escape. Ver. 8: Wicked profane
contemners of God and his people bring ruin on a city or commonalty, they set it on fire and
blow it up. But godly men pacify wrath, turn away judgments, and purge all from provocations,
which is the only means to turn it away. Ver. 16 shows, when wicked men gather together, and
grow in state and power, they grow worse, and sin with greater boldness, and transgression
then overflows the land, tanquam ruptis repagulis.(404) There is no obstacle. See Psal. xii.
And ver. 24 shows, he that is partner and fellow receiver with a thief, or conceals such offenders,
endangers his own destruction; and he that stays with, and associates with wicked men, must
hear cursing and cannot bewray it. He will see many abominations, that though he would, he
cannot remedy. Ver. 25: Fear of man and of the land’s danger, hath brought many into a snare,
to run from the Lord to an arm of flesh, but he that trusts in the Lord shall be safe. Ver.
27: Here is the deadly enmity between the two seeds, they cannot reconcile well. See ver. 10
and chap. xxi. 3. It is no wonder the godly abominate such men who are God’s enemies and the
land’s plague.

Chap. xxx. 11, 14 describes the malignant party, who make nothing of the godly magistrates
or their mother church and land, but curse, malign, oppose as much as they could, and are oppressors,
monstrous tyrants, mankind beasts, or beastly men. The subject of their cruelty is the godly
afflicted man. 12, 13, 20 describe our enemies, the invaders. Ver. 21-23: It is a burden to
the world and a plague to mankind, when servants, unworthy men, and persons unfit for high
places are set in authority, and when wicked men have their desire of plenty and honour, (chap.
xix. 10.) and when an odious woman, or men of hateful vicious dispositions, come to preferment
and are espoused by a state,—nought they were while alone, but worse now when they have crept
into the bed and bosom of the state; her roots were nought before, but now she is planted in
rank mould, and will shoot forth her unsavoury branches and blossoms,—and when handmaids, kept
in a servile estate because of their disposition and quality, get their masters ushered out,
and they become heirs, at least possessors of the inheritance or trust. Ver. 33 shows how necessarily
war and contention follow upon unnecessary provocations by word or deed, such as we have given
many to England, though indeed they have given moe.(405) And lastly, chap. xxxi. 20, 26, 31
shows how word and work should go together, and men should be esteemed and praised according
to their works and fruit of their hands.

A TREATISE OF CHRISTIAN LOVE.

John xiii. 35. “By This Shall All Men Know That Ye Are My Disciples, If Ye Have Love One To
Another.” First Printed At Edinburgh In 1743.

To The Reader.

This treatise concerning Christian Love, was composed by the pious and learned Mr. Hugh Binning
who was minister of the gospel at Govan, near to Glasgow. He was much celebrated and esteemed
in this church, for several practical treatises, frequently printed for the benefit of the
public, but this is not inferior to any of them.

Though there have been many excellent discourses in late years on this divine subject, yet,
considering that there never was a time wherein a treatise of this kind was more seasonable
and necessary than the present, when the love of many, of too, too many, is waxed cold, and
this holy fire is almost extinguished, this cannot be thought to be superfluous.

The author was a minister of a most pacific temper, and this amiable grace and virtue did illustriously
shine forth in him; and in this discourse, he breathes with a spirit of love in the most affecting
and gaining manner, so that, I dare say, that, though it be above ninety years since he composed
it, it does not fall short of any performance of this kind that has since appeared in public.

Mr. Binning treats of this subject in a most sublime and pathetic strain; he explains the nature
of this grace, discourses of the excellent properties and blessed effect and fruits of it,
in a ravishing and captivating manner. There is such a variety of beauties in this treatise,
that they deserve to be noticed in this preface, and particularly, his admirable commentary
on the 13th chapter of the First Epistle to the Corinthians, wherein he outstrips all that
went before him and, in fine, he enforces the exercise of this grace with the most convincing
argument and the most powerful motives. And now, not to detain the reader from the perusal,
it is earnestly wished that the end of the publication may, by the blessing of God, be obtained,
which is, that Christians in our days may be as the primitive ones,—of one mind and of one
heart, and that they may love one another with a pure heart fervently.

Chapter I.

The beauty and excellency of this world consists, not only in the perfection and comeliness
of each part in it, but especially in the wise and wonderful proportion and union of these
several parts. It is not the lineaments and colours that make the image or complete beauty,
but the proportion and harmony of these, though different severally. And truly that is the
wonder, that such repugnant natures, such different parts, and dissentient qualities, do conspire
together in such an exact perfect unity and agreement, in which the wisdom of God doth most
appear, by making all things in number, weight and measure. His power appears in the making
all the materials of nothing, but his wisdom is manifested in the ordering and disposing so
dissonant natures into one well agreeing and comely frame; so that this orderly disposition
of all things into one fabric, is that harmonious melody of the creation, made up as it were
of dissonant sounds, and that comely beauty of the world, resulting from such a proportion
and wise combination of divers lines and colours. To go no further than the body of a man,
what various elements are combined into a well ordered being, the extreme qualities being so
refracted and abated as they may join in friendship and society, and make up one sweet temperament!

Now, it is most reasonable to suppose, that, by the law of creation, there was no less order
and unity to be among men, the chiefest of the works of God. And so it was indeed. As God had
moulded the rest of the world into a beautiful frame, by the first stamp of his finger, so
he did engrave upon the hearts of men such a principle, as might be a perpetual bond and tie
to unite the sons of men together. This was nothing else but the law of love, the principal
fundamental law of our creation, love to God, founded on that essential dependence and subordination
to God, and love to man, grounded upon that communion and interest in one image of God. All
the commandments of the first and second table are but so many branches of these trees, or
streams of these fountains. 37, 38, 39. And therefore, as Paul says, “Love is the fulfilling
of the law,” Rom. xiii. 10. The universal debt we owe to God is love in the superlative degree,
and the universal debt we owe one another is love in an inferior degree, yet of no lower kind
than that of our selves. “Owe no man any thing, but to love one another” (Rom. xiii. 8), and
that collateral with himself, as Christ speaks. Unto these laws all other are subordinate,
and one of them is subordinate to the other, but to nothing else. And so, as long as the love
of God may go before, the love of man should follow, and whatever doth not untie the bond of
divine affection, ought not to loose the knot of that love which is linked with it. When the
uniting of souls together divides both from God, then indeed, and only then, must this knot
be untied that the other may be kept fast.

But this beautiful and comely frame of man is marred. Sin hath cut in pieces that divine love
that knit man to God; and the dissolving of this hath loosed that link of human society, love
to our neighbour. And now all is rents, rags, and distractions, because self love hath usurped
the throne. The unity of the world of mankind is dissolved, one is distracted from another,
following his own private inclinations and inordinate affection, which is the poison of enmity,
and seed of all discord. If the love of God and of one another had kept the throne, there had
been a coordination and co-working of all men in all their actions, for God’s glory and the
common good of man. But now self love having enthroned itself, every man is for himself, and
strives, by all means, to make a concurrence of all things to his own interest and designs.
The first principles of love would have made all men’s actions and courses flow into one ocean
of divine glory and mutual edification, so that there could not have been any disturbance or
jarring amongst them, all flowing into one common end. But self-love hath turned all the channels
backward towards itself, and this is its wretched aim and endeavour, in which it wearies itself,
and discomposes the world, to wind and turn in every thing, and to make, in the end, a general
affluence of the streams into its own bosom. This is the seed of all division and confusion
which is among men, while every man makes himself the centre, it cannot choose but all the
lines and draughts of men’s courses must thwart and cross each other.

Now, the Lord Jesus having redeemed lost man, and repaired his ruins, he makes up this breach,
especially restores this fundamental ordinance of our creation, and unites men again to God
and to one another. Therefore he is our peace, he hath removed the seeds of discord between
God and man, and between man and man. And this is the subject of that divine epistle which
the beloved apostle, full of that divine love, did pen, “God is love, and in this was the love
of God manifested, that God sent his only begotten Son into the world. And he that loveth is
born of God, and knoweth God, but we love God, because he loved us first, and if God so loved
us, we ought also to love one another.” 1 John iv. This is the very substance of the gospel,
a doctrine of God’s love to man, and of man’s love due to God, and to them who are begotten
of God, the one declared, the other commanded. So that much of the gospel is but a new edition
or publication of that old ancient fundamental law of creation. This is that paradox which
John delivers, “I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment, which you had
from the beginning; again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and
you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth,” 1 John ii. 7, 8. It is
no new commandment, but that primitive command of love to God and men, which is the fulfilling
of the law; and yet new it is, because there is a new obligation superadded. The bond of creation
was great, but the tie of redemption is greater. God gave a being to man, that is enough. But
God to become a miserable man for man, that is infinitely more. Fellow creatures, that is sufficient
for a bond of amity. But to be once fellow captives, companions in misery, and then companions
in mercy and blessedness, that is a new and stronger bond. Mutual love was the badge of reasonable
creatures in innocency. But now Jesus Christ hath put a new stamp and signification on it;
and made it the very differential character and token of his disciples, “By this shall all
men know that ye are my disciples, if ye love one another.” And therefore, when he is making
his latter will, he gives this testamentary commandment to his children and heirs, “A new commandment
give I unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.”
New indeed! For though it be the same command, yet there was never such a motive, inducement,
and persuasive to it as this: “God so loved that he gave me, and I so loved that I gave myself,
that is an addition more than all that was before,” John xiii. 34, 35.

There is a special stamp of excellency put on this affection of love, that God delights to
exhibit himself to us in such a notion. “God is love,” and so holds out himself as the pattern
of this. “Be ye followers of God as dear children, and walk in love,” Eph. v. 1, 2. This is
the great virtue and property which we should imitate our Father in. As God hath a general
love to all the creatures, from whence the river of his goodness flows out through the earth,
and in that, is like the sun conveying his light and benign influence, without partiality or
restraint, to the whole world, but his special favour runs in a more narrow channel towards
these whom he hath chosen in Christ; so in this a Christian should be like his Father, and
there is nothing in which he resembles him more than in this, to walk in love towards all men,
even our enemies. And this is to be perfect as he is perfect. This perfection is charity and
love to all. But the particular and special current of affection will run toward the household
of faith, those who are of the same descent, and family, and love. This drawn into such a compass,
is the badge and livery of his disciples. These two in a Christian are nothing but the reflex
of the love of God, and streams issuing out from it. A Christian walking in love to all, blessing
his enemies, praying for them, not reviling or cursing again, but blessing for cursing, and
praying for reviling, forgiving all, and ready to give to the necessities of all, and more
especially, uniting the force of his love and delight, to bestow it upon these who are the
excellent ones, and delight of God, such a one is his Father’s picture, so to speak. He is
partaker of that divine nature, and royal spirit of love. Gal. vi. 10: “As we have therefore
opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of
faith.” 1 Thess. iii. 12. And truly this is the symptom of a decaying and fading Christian
and church. Love is the vital spirits of a Christian, which are the principles of all motion
and lively operation. When there is a deliquium(406) in these, the soul is in a decay; it is
so comprehensive an evil, as alone is sufficient to make an evil time. And besides, it is the
argument and evidence, as well as the root and fountain, of abounding iniquity, because this
is the epidemical disease of the present time, love cooled, and passion heated, whence proceed
all the feverish distempers, contentions, wars and divisions, which have brought the church
of God near to expiring. Therefore being mindful of that of the apostle, Heb. x. 24, I would
think it pertinent to consider one another, and provoke again unto love and to good works.
It was the great charge that Christ had against Ephesus, “Thou hast left thy first love.” I
shall therefore show the excellency and necessity of this grace, that so we may remember from
whence we have fallen and repent, that we may do the first works, lest he come quickly and
remove our candlestick, Rev. ii.  4, 5.

Chapter II.

I.  Then, it might endear this Christian virtue unto us, that God propones himself as the pattern
of it, that Christ holds out himself as the rare example of it for our imitation. It is what
doth most endear God to creatures, and certainly it must likewise appreciate them one to another.
1 John iv. 35: “By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye love one another.”
Now the following of so rare an example, and imitating of so noble and high a pattern, doth
exalt the soul into a royalty and dignity, that it dwells in God and God in it. 1 John iv.
16. This is the highest point of conformity with God, and the nearest resemblance of our Father.
To be like him in wisdom, that wretched aim, did cast men as low as hell, but to aspire unto
a likeness in love, lifts up the soul as high as heaven, even to a mutual inhabitation.

II. It should add an exceeding weight unto it, that we have not only so high a pattern, but
so excellent a motive, “God so loved,” and “herein is love, not that we loved God, but that
he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins,” therefore, “If God so loved
us, we ought also to love one another,” 1 John iv. 9, 10, 11. “Walk in love, as Christ also
hath loved us, and hath given himself for us,” Eph. v. 2. Here are the topics of the most vehement
persuasion. There is no invention can afford so constraining a motive, God so loving us, sinful
and miserable us, that he gave his only begotten Son, that we might live through him, and Christ
so loving us, that he gave himself a sacrifice for sin. O then! who should live to himself,
when Christ died for others? And who should not love, when “God spared not his own Son, but
delivered him up for us all?” “God commendeth his love to us, in that while we were yet sinners,
Christ died for us,” Rom. viii. 32, and v. 8 and xiv. 7, 8.

III. Join to this so earnest and pressing a command, even the latter will of him to whom we
owe that we are, and are redeemed. That is the burden he lays on us. This is all the recompence
he seeks for his unparalleled love, “This is my command, that as I have loved you, ye love
one another,” John xiii. 34. Your goodness cannot extend to me, therefore I assign all the
beneficence and bounty ye owe to me, I give it over to these whom I have loved, and have not
loved my life for them. Now, says he, whatsoever ye would count yourself obliged to do to me,
if I were on the earth among you, do it to these poor ones whom I have left behind me, and
this is all the testimony of gratitude I crave. Matth. xxv. 12 and l7, “This is my commandment,
that ye love one another as I have loved you. These things I command you, that ye love one
another,” and his apostles after him, 1 Thess. iv. 14, “And above all these things, put on
charity, which is the bond of perfectness.” 1 Pet. iv. 8, “And above all things have fervent
charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins.” But above all, that
beloved disciple, who being so intimate with Jesus Christ,—we may lawfully conceive he was
mured to that affectionate frame by his converse with Christ,—has been most mindful of Christ’s
testamentary injunctions. He cannot speak three sentences but this is one of them.

IV.

But let us consider the apostle’s significant character he puts on it. It is a bond of perfection,
as it were, a bundle of graces, and chain of virtues, even the very cream and flower of many
graces combined. It is the sweet result of the united force of all graces. It is the very head
and heart of the new man, which we are invited to put on, “Above all put on charity.” All these
fore-mentioned perfections are bound and tied together, by the girdle of charity and love,
to the new man. When charity is born and brought forth, it may be styled Gad,(407) for a troop
cometh, chorus virtutum,(408) “a troop or company of virtues” which it leads and commands.
Charity hath a tender heart, for it hath “bowels of mercies,”—such a compassionate and melting
temper of spirit, that the misery or calamity, whether bodily or spiritual, of other men, makes
an impression upon it. And therefore it is the Christian sympathy which affects itself with
others’ afflictions. If others be moved, it moves itself through comfort and sympathy. This
is not only extended to bodily and outward infirmities, but, most of all, to infirmities of
mind and heart, error, ignorance, darkness, falling and failing in temptation. We are made
priests to God our Father, to have compassion on them who are ignorant and out of the way,
for that we ourselves are also compassed with infirmity, Rev. i. 6 and Heb. v. 2. Then, love
hath a humble mind, “humbleness of mind,” else it could not stoop and condescend to others
of low degree, and therefore Christ exhorts above all to lowliness. “Learn of me, for I am
meek and lowly in heart.” If a man be not lowly, to sit down below offences and infirmities,
his love cannot rise above them. Self-love is the greatest enemy to true Christian love, and
pride is the fountain of self-love, because it is impossible that, in this life, there should
be an exact correspondence between the thoughts and ways of Christians. Therefore it is not
possible to keep this bond of perfection unbroken, except there be a mutual condescendence.
Self-love would have all conformed to it, and if that be not, there is the rent presently.
But humbleness of mind can conform itself to all things, and this keeps the bond fast. Then
charity, by the link of humility, hath meekness chained unto it, and kindness. Love is of a
sweet complexion, meek and kind. Pride is the mother of passion, humbleness the mother of meekness.
The inward affection is composed by meekness, and the outward actions adorned by gentleness
and kindness. O that sweet composure of spirit! The heart of the wicked is as the troubled
sea, no rest, no quiet in it, continual tempests raising continual waves of disquiet. An unmeek
spirit is like a boiling pot, it troubles itself and annoys others. Then, at length, charity,
by lowliness and meekness, is the most durable, enduring, long-suffering thing in the world,
“with long suffering, forbearing one another in love.” These are the only principles of patience
and longanimity. Anger and passion is expressed in scripture under the name of haste, and it
is a sudden, furious, hasty thing, a rash, inconsiderate, impatient thing, more hasty than
speedy. Now the special exercises and operations of these graces are in the 13th verse, “forbearing
one another, and forgiving one another,” according to Christ’s example. And indeed these are
so high and sublime works, as charity must yoke all the fore-mentioned graces, unite them all
in one troop, for the accomplishing of them. And the great and sweet fruit of all this is comprehended
in the 15th verse, “The peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which ye are called in one
body.” Peace with God is not here meant, but the peace which God hath made up between men.
All were shattered and rent asunder. The Lord hath by his Son Jesus Christ gathered so many
into one body, the church, and by one Spirit quickens all. Now where love is predominant, there
is a sweet peace and harmony between all the members of this one body. And this peace and tranquillity
of affections rules and predominates over all these lusts, which are the mineries(409) of contentions,
and strifes, and wars.

V. Add unto this another special mark of excellency that this apostle puts on charity, or Christian
love. If this were duly pondered, I do believe it would fill all hearts with astonishment,
and faces with confusion, that they neglected the weightier matters of the law, and over stretched
some other particular duties, to fill up the place of this, which is the end, the fulfilling
of the law. It appears by this that charity is a cream of graces. It is the spirit and quintessence
extracted out of these cardinal graces, unfeigned faith, a good conscience, a pure heart. It
is true, the immediate end of the law, as it is now expounded unto us, is to drive us to believe
in Jesus Christ, as it is expressed, Rom. x. 4. “Christ is the end of the law for righteousness
to every one that believeth.” But this believing in Christ is not the last end of it. Faith
unfeigned in a Mediator is intentionally for this, to give the answer of a good conscience
in the blood of Christ, and to purify the heart by the water of the Spirit, and so to bring
about at length, by such a sweet compass, the righteousness of the law to be fulfilled by love
in us, which by divine imputation is fulfilled to us. Now consider the context, and it shall
yield much edification. Some teachers (1 Tim. i. 4.) exercised themselves and others in endless
genealogies, which, though they contained some truth in them, yet they were perplexing, and
brought no edification to souls. Curiosity might go round in such debates, and bewilder itself
as in a labyrinth, but they did rather multiply disputes than bring true edification in the
faith and love of God and men. Now, says he, they do wholly mistake the end of the law, of
the doctrine of the scripture. The end and great purpose of it is love, which proceeds from
faith in Christ, purifying the heart.

VI. Now to complete the account of the eminence of this grace, take that remarkable chapter
of Paul’s, 1 Cor. xiii., where he institutes the comparison between it and other graces, and
in the end pronounces on its behalf, “the greatest of these is charity.” I wonder how we do
please ourselves, as that we had attained already, when we do not so much as labour to be acquainted
with this, in which the life of Christianity consists, without which faith is dead, our profession
vain, our other duties and endeavours for the truth unacceptable to God and men. “Yet I show
you a more excellent way,” says he in the end of the former chapter. And this is the more excellent
way, charity and love, more excellent than gifts, speaking with tongues, prophesying, &c. And
is it not more excellent than the knowledge and acknowledgment of some present questionable
matters, about governments, treaties, and such like, and far more than every punctilio of them?
Whatsoever knowledge and ability a man hath, charity must employ it, and use it.  Without this,
duties and graces make a noise, but they are shallow and empty within. Now he shows the sweet
properties of it, and good effects of it, how universal an influence it hath on all things,
but especially how necessary it is to keep the unity of the church.

Charity “is kind” and “suffereth long,” (μακροθυμηω), it is longanimous or magnanimous and
there is indeed no great, truly great, mind but is patient and long suffering.  It is a great
weakness and pusillanimity to be soon angry.  Such a spirit hath not the rule of itself, but
is in bondage to its own lust, but “he that ruleth his spirit is greater than he that taketh
a city.”  Now, it is much of this affection of love that overrules passion.  There is a greatness
and height in it, to love them that deserve not well of us, to be kind to the unfaithful, not
to be easily provoked, and not soon disobliged.  A fool’s wrath is presently known.  It is
a folly and weakness of spirit, which love, much love cures and amends.  It suffers much unkindness,
and long suffers it, and yet can be kind.

“Charity envieth not.” Envy is the seed of all contention, and self-love brings it forth. 
When every man desires to be esteemed chief, and would have pre-eminence among others, their
ways and courses must interfere one with another.  It is this that makes discord.  Every man
would abate from another’s estimation, that he may add to his own.  None lives content with
his own lot or station, and it is the aspiring beyond that, which puts all the wheels out of
course.  I believe this is the root of many contentions among Christians,—the apprehension
of slighting, the conceit of disrespect, and such like, kindles the flame of difference, and
heightens the least offence to an unpardonable injury. But charity envieth not where it may
lie quietly low.  Though it be under the feet of others, and beneath its own due place, yet
it envieth not, it can lie contentedly so. Suppose it be slighted and despised, yet it takes
it not highly, because it is lowly in mind.

“Charity is not puffed up, and vaunteth not itself.”  If charity have gifts and graces beyond
others, it restrains itself, with the bridle of modesty and humility, from vaunting or boasting,
or any thing in its carriage that may savour of conceit. Pride is a self admirer, and despises
others, and to please itself it cares not to displease others.  There is nothing so incomportable(410)
in human or Christian society, so apt to alienate others’ affections, for the more we take
of our own affection to ourselves, we shall have the less from others. O these golden rules
of Christian walking! Rom. xii. 10, 16, “Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly
love, in honour preferring one another.  Philip. ii. 3.  “Knowledge puffeth up,” says this
apostle (1 Cor. viii. 1) “but charity edifieth.”  It is but a swelling and tumour of the mind,
but love is solid piety and real religion.

Then charity doth nothing unseemly, “behaveth not itself unseemly,” 1 Cor. xiii. 5.  Vanity
and swelling of mind will certainly break forth into some unseemly carriage, as vain estimation,
and such like, but charity keeps a sweet decorum in all its carriage, so as not to provoke
and irritate others, nor yet to expose itself to contempt or mockery.  Or the word may be taken
thus, it is not fastidious.  It accounts not itself disgraced and abused, to condescend to
men of low estate.  It can with its Master bow down to wash a disciple’s feet, and not think
it unseemly.  Whatsoever it submits to in doing or suffering, it is not ashamed of it, as that
it were not suitable and comely.

“Charity seeketh not her own things.”  Self denial and true love are inseparable. Self love
makes a monopoly of all things to its own interest, and this is most opposite to Christian
affection  and communion, which puts all in one bank.  If every one of the members should seek
its own things, and not the good of the whole body, what a miserable distemper would it cause
in the body? We are called into one body in Christ, and therefore we should look not on our
own things only, but every man also on the things of others, Philip. ii. 4. There is a public
interest of saints, mutual edification in faith and love, which charity will prefer to its
own private interest. Addictedness to our own apprehension, and too much self overweening and
self pleasing is the grand enemy of that place to which we are called into one body. Since
one Spirit informs and enlivens all the members, what a monstrosity is it for one member to
seek its own things, and attend to its own private interest only, as if it were a distinct body!

Charity “is not easily provoked.” This is the straight and solid firmness of it, that it is
not soon moved with external impressions. It is long suffering, it suffers long and much. It
will not be shaken by violent and weighty pressures of injuries, where there is much provocation
given, yet it is not provoked. Now to complete it, it is not easily provoked at light offences.
It is strange how little a spark of injuries puts all in a flame because our spirits are as
gunpowder,—so capable of combustion through corruption. How ridiculous, for the most part,
are the causes of our wrath! For light things we are heavily moved, and for ridiculous things
sadly, even as children who fall out among themselves for toys and trifles, or as beasts that
are provoked upon the very show of a colour, as red or such like. We would save ourselves much
labour, if we could judge before we suffer ourselves to be provoked. But now we follow the
first appearance of wrong, and being once moved from without, we continue our commotion within,
lest we should seem to be angry without a cause. But charity hath a more solid foundation.
It dwells in God, for God is love, and so is truly great, truly high, and looks down with a
steadfast countenance upon these lower things. The upper world is continually calm and serene.
No clouds, no tempests there, no winds, nothing to disturb the harmonious and uniform motion,
but it is this lower world that is troubled and tossed with tempests, and obscured with clouds.
So a soul dwelling in God by love, is exalted above the cloudy region. He is calm, quiet, serene,
and is not disturbed or interrupted in his motion of love to God or men.

Charity “thinketh no evil.” Charity is apt to take all things in the best sense. If a thing
may be subject to diverse acceptations, it can put the best construction on it. It is so benign
and good in its own nature that it is not inclinable to suspect others. It desires to condemn
no man, but would gladly, as far as reason and conscience will permit, absolve every man. It
is so far from desire of revenge, that it is not provoked or troubled with an injury. For that
were nothing else but to wrong itself because others have wronged it already, and it is so
far from wronging others, that it will not willingly so much as think evil of them. Yet if
need require, charity can execute justice, and inflict chastisement, not out of desire of another’s
misery, but out of love and compassion to mankind. Charitas non punit quia peccatum est, sed
ne peccaretur,(411) it looks more to prevention of future sin, than to revenge of a bypast
fault, and can do all without any discomposure of spirit, as a physician cuts a vein without
anger. Quis enim cut medetur irascitur? “Who is angry at his own patient?”

Charity “rejoiceth not in iniquity.” Charity is not defiled in itself, though it condescend
to all. Though it can love and wish well to evil men, yet it rejoiceth not in iniquity. It
is like the sun’s light that shines on a dunghill, and is not defiled, receives no tincture
from it. Some base and wicked spirits make a sport to do mischief themselves, and take pleasure
in others that do it. But charity rejoices in no iniquity or injustice, though it were done
to its own enemy. It cannot take pleasure in the unjust sufferings of any who hate it, because
it hath no enemy but sin and iniquity and hates nothing else with a perfect hatred. Therefore
whatever advantage should redound to itself by other men’s iniquities, it cannot rejoice, that
iniquity, its capital enemy, should reign and prevail. But it “rejoiceth in the truth.” The
advancement and progress of others in the way of truth and holiness is its pleasure. Though
that should eclipse its own glory, yet it looks not on it with an evil eye. If it can find
out any good in them that are enemies to it, it is not grieved to find it and know it, but
can rejoice at any thing which may give ground of good construction of them. There is nothing
more beautiful in its eyes than to see every one get their own due, though it alone should
come behind.

Charity “beareth all things.” By nature we are undaunted heifers, cannot bear any thing patiently.
But charity is accustomed to the yoke,—to the yoke of reproaches and injuries from others,
to a burden of other men’s infirmities and failings. We would all be borne upon others’ shoulders,
but we cannot put our own shoulders under other men’s burden, according to that royal law of
Christ, Rom. xv. 1.

Charity “believeth all things.” Our nature is malignant and wicked, and therefore most suspicious
and jealous, and apt to take all in the worst part. But charity hath much candour and humanity
in it, and can believe well of every man, and believe all things as far as truth will permit.
It knows that grace can be beside a man’s sins. It knows that itself is subject to such like
infirmities. Therefore it is not a rigid and censorious judger; it allows as much latitude
to others as it would desire of others. It is true it is not blind and ignorant. It is judicious,
and hath eyes that can discern between colours. Credit omnia credenda, sperat omnia speranda.
“It believes all things that are believable, and hopes all things that are hopeful.” If love
have not sufficient evidences, yet she believes if there be some probabilities to the contrary,
as well as for it. The weight of charity inclines to the better part, and so casts the balance
of hope and persuasion; yet being sometimes deceived, she hath reason to be watchful and wise,
for “the simple believeth every word.” If charity cannot have ground of believing any good,
yet it hopes still. Qui non est hodie, cras magis aptus erit,(412) says charity, and therefore
it is patient and gentle, waiting on all, if peradventure God may “give them repentance to
the acknowledging of the truth,” 2 Tim. ii. 25. Charity would account it both atheism and blasphemy,
to say such a man cannot, will not find mercy. But to pronounce of such as have been often
approven in the conscience of all, and sealed into many hearts, that they will never find mercy,
that they have no grace, because of some failings in practice and differences from us, it were
not in sobriety but madness. It is certainly love and indulgence to ourselves, that make us
aggravate other men’s faults to such a height. Self love looks on other men’s failings through
a multiplying or magnifying glass, but she puts her own faults behind her back. Non videt quod
in mantica quæ a tergo est.(413) Therefore she can suffer much in herself but nothing in others,
and certainly much self forbearance and indulgence can spare little for others. But charity
is just contrary. She is most rigid on her own behalf, will not pardon herself easily, knows
no revenge but what is spoken of 2 Cor. vii. 11, self revenge, and hath no indignation but
against herself. Thus she can spare much candour and forbearance for others, and hath little
or nothing of indignation left behind to consume on others.

“Charity never faileth.” This is the last note of commendation. Things have their excellency
from their use and from their continuance; both are here. Nothing so useful, no such friend
of human or Christian society as charity, the advantage of it reacheth all things. And then,
it is most permanent and durable. When all shall go, it shall remain. When ordinances, and
knowledge attained by means and ordinances, shall evanish, charity shall abide, and then receive
its consummation. Faith of things inevident and obscure shall be drowned in the vision of seeing
God’s face clearly. Hope of things to come shall be exhausted in the possession and fruition
of them. But love only remains in its own nature and notion, only it is perfected by the addition
of so many degrees as may suit that blessed estate. Therefore methinks it should be the study
of all saints who believe immortality, and hope for eternal life, to put on that garment of
charity, which is the livery of all the inhabitants above. We might have heaven upon earth
as far as is possible if we dwelt in love, and love dwelt in and possessed our hearts. What
an unsuitable thing might a believer think it, to hate him in this world whom he must love
eternally, and to contend and strive with these, even for matters of small moment, with bitterness
and rigidity, with whom he shall have an eternal, uninterrupted unity and fellowship? Should
we not be assaying here how that glorious garment suits us? And truly there is nothing makes
a man so heaven-like or God like as this, much love and charity.

Now there is one consideration might persuade us the more unto it, that here we know but darkly
and in part, and therefore our knowledge, at best, is but obscure and inevident, ofttimes subject
to many mistakes and misapprehensions of truth, according as mediums represent them. And therefore
there must be some latitude of love allowed one to another in this state of imperfection, else
it is impossible to keep unity, and we must conflict often with our own shadows, and bite and
devour one another for some deceiving appearances. The imperfection and obscurity of knowledge
should make all men jealous of themselves, especially in matters of a doubtful nature, and
not so clearly determined by scripture. Because our knowledge is weak, shall our love be so?
Nay, rather let charity grow stronger, and aspire unto perfection, because knowledge is imperfect.
What is wanting in knowledge let us make up in affection, and let the gap of difference in
judgment be swallowed up with the bowels of mercies and love, and humbleness of mind. And then
we shall have hid our infirmity of understanding as much as may be. Thus we may go hand in
hand together to our Father’s house, where, at length, we must be together.

Chapter III.

I may briefly reduce the chief persuading motive to this so needful and so much desiderated
grace into some three or four heads. All things within and without persuade to it, but especially
the right consideration of the love of God in Christ, the wise and the impartial reflection
on ourselves, the consideration of our brethren whom we are commanded to love, and the thorough
inspection into the nature and use of the grace itself.

In consideration of the First, a soul might argue itself into a complacency with it and thus
persuade itself, “He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love,” 1 John iv. 8. And
since he that hath known and believed the love that God hath to us, must certainly dwell in
love, since these two have such a strait indissoluble connexion, then, as I would not declare
to all my atheism and my ignorance of God, I will study to love my brethren. And that I may
love them, I will give myself to the search of God’s love, which is the place, locus inventionis,(414)
whence I may find out the strongest and most effectual medium to persuade my mind, and to constrain
my heart to Christian affection.

First then, when I consider that so glorious and great a Majesty, so high and holy an One,
self sufficient and all sufficient, who needs not go abroad to seek delight, because all happiness
and delight is enclosed within his own bosom, can yet love a creature, yea and be reconciled
to so sinful a creature, which he might crush as easily as speak a word, that he can place
his delight on so unworthy and base an object, O! how much more should I, a poor wretched creature,
love my fellow creature, ofttimes better than myself, and, for the most part, not much worse?
There is an infinite distance and disproportion betwixt God and man, yet he came over all that
to love man. What difficulty should I have then to place my affection on my equal at worst,
and often better? There cannot be any proportionable distance betwixt the highest and lowest,
between the richest and poorest, between the most wise and the most ignorant, between the most
gracious and the most ungodly, as there is between the infinite God and a finite angel. Should
then the mutual infirmities and failings of Christians, be an insuperable and impassable gulf,
as between heaven and hell, that none can pass over by a bridge of love to either? “If God
so loved us,” should not we love one another? 1 John iv. 11. And besides, when I consider that
God hath not only loved me, but my brethren who were worthy of hatred, with an everlasting
love, and passed over all that was in them, and hath spread his skirt over their nakedness,
and made it a time of love, which was a time of loathing, how can I withhold my affection where
God hath bestowed his? Are they not infinitely more unworthy of his than mine? Since infinite
wrongs hath not changed his, shall poor, petty, and light offences hinder mine? That my love
concenter with God’s on the same persons, is it not enough?

Next, That Jesus Christ, the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth, who was
the Father’s delight from eternity, and in whom he delighted, yet, not withstanding, could
rejoice in the habitable places of the earth, and so love poor wretched men, yet enemies, that
he gave himself for them, that God so loved that he gave his Son, and Christ so loved that
he gave himself a sacrifice for sin, both for me and others, O! who should not or will not
be constrained, in beholding this mirror of incomparable and spotless love to love others?
(1 John iv. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.” Eph. v. 2. John
xiii. 34, 35. If God be so kind to his enemies, and Christ so loving that he gives his life
for his enemies to make them friends, what should we do to our enemies, what to our friends?
This one example may make all created love to blush and be ashamed. How narrow, how limited,
how selfish is it!

Thirdly, If God hath forgiven me so many grievous offences, if he hath pardoned so heinous
and innumerable injuries, that amount to a kind of infiniteness in number and quality, O how
much more am I bound to forgive my brethren a few light and trivial offences? Col. iii. 13.
32. Matth. vi. 15. 32, 33, 34, 35. When we cannot dispense with one penny, how should he dispense
with his talents? And when we cannot pardon ten, how should he forgive ten thousand? When he
hath forgiven my brother all his iniquity, may not I pardon one? Shall I impute that which
God will not impute, or discover that which God hath covered? How should I expect he should
be merciful to me, when I cannot shew mercy to my brother? Psal. xviii. 25. “With the merciful
thou wilt show thyself merciful.” Shall I, for one or few offences, hate, bite, and devour
him for whom Christ died, and loved not his life to save him? Rom. xiv. 15 and 1 Cor. viii. 11.

In the next place. If a Christian do but take an impartial view of himself, he cannot but thus
reason himself to a meek, composed, and affectionate temper towards other brethren. What is
it in another that offends me, when if I do search within, I will not either find the same,
or worse, or as evil in myself? Is there a mote in my brothers eye? Perhaps there may be a
beam in my own; and why then should I look to the mote that is in my brother’s eye? Matth.
vii. 3. When I look inwardly, I find a desperately wicked heart, which lodges all that iniquity
I beheld in others. And if I be not so sensible of it, it is because it is also deceitful above
all things, and would flatter me in mine own eyes, Jer. xvii. 9. If my brother offend me in
some things, how do these evanish out of sight in the view of my own guiltiness before God,
and of the abominations of my own heart, known to his holiness and to my conscience? Sure I
cannot see so much evil in my brother as I find in myself. I see but his outside. But I know
my own heart; and whenever I retire within this, I find the sea of corruption so great, that
I wonder not at the streams which break forth in others. But all my wonder is that God hath
set bounds to it in me or in any. Whenever I find my spirit rising against the infirmities
of others, and my mind swelling over them, I repress myself with this thought, “I myself also
am a man,” as Peter said to Cornelius when he would have worshipped him. As he restrained another’s
idolizing of him, I may cure my own self idolizing heart. Is it any thing strange that weak
men fail, and sinful men fall? Is not all flesh grass, and all the perfection and goodliness
of it as the flower of the field? Isa. xl. 6. Is not every man at his best estate altogether
vanity? Psal. xxxix. 5. Is not man’s breath in his nostrils? Isa. ii. 22. And am not I myself
a man? Therefore I will not be high minded but fear, Rom. xi. 20. I will not be moved to indignation,
but provoked to compassion, knowing that I myself am compassed with infirmities, Heb. v. 2.

Secondly, As a man may persuade himself to charity by the examination of his own heart and
ways, so he may enforce upon his spirit a meek and compassionate stamp, by the consideration
of his own frailty, what he may fall into. This is the Apostle’s rule, Gal. vi. 1. “Brethren,
if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye that are spiritual,” and pretend to it, “restore such
an one in the spirit of meekness.” Do not please yourselves with a false notion of zeal, thinking
to cover your impertinent rigidity by it. Do as you would do if your own arm were disjointed.
Set it in, restore it tenderly and meekly, considering yourselves that ye also may be tempted.
Some are more given to reproaching and insulting than mindful of restoring. Therefore their
reproofs are not tempered with oil that they may not break the head, but mixed with gall and
vinegar to set on edge the teeth. But whenever thou lookest upon the infirmities of others,
then consider thyself first, before you pronounce sentence on them, and thou shalt be constrained
to bestow that charity to others which thou hast need of thyself. Veniam petimusque damusque
vicissim.(415) If a man have need of charity from his brother, let him not be hard in giving
it. If he know his own weakness and frailty, sure he may suppose such a thing may likely fall
out that he may be tempted and succumb in it. For there needs nothing for the bringing forth
of sin in any but occasion and temptation, as the bringing of fire near gunpowder. And truly
he who had no allowance of love to give to an infirm and weak brother, he will be in mala fide,
in an evil capacity, to seek what he would not give. Now the fountain of uncharitable and harsh
dealing is imported in the 3d verse, “If any man thinks himself to be something when he is
nothing, he deceives himself.” Since all mortal men are nothing, vanity, altogether vanity,
and less than vanity, he that would seem something, and seems so to himself, deludes himself.
Hence is our insulting fierceness, hence our supercilious rigour. Every man apprehends some
excellency in himself beyond another. Take away pride, and charity shall enter, and modesty
shall be its companion. But now we mock ourselves, and deceive ourselves, by building the weight
of our pretended zeal upon such a vain and rotten foundation, as a gross practical fundamental
lie of self conceit of nothing. Now the Apostle furnishes us with an excellent remedy against
this in the 4th verse, “Let a man prove himself and his own work, and then he shall have rejoicing
in himself alone, and not in another.”—a word worthy to be fastened by the Master of assemblies
in the heart of all Christians! And indeed this nail driven in would drive out all conceit.
Hence is our ruin, that we compare ourselves among ourselves, and in so doing we are not wise,
2 Cor. x. 12. For we know not our own true value. Only we raise the price according to the
market, so to speak. We measure ourselves by another man’s measure, and build up our estimation
upon the disesteem of others, and how much others displease, so much we please ourselves. But,
says the Apostle, let every man prove his own work, search his own conscience, compare himself
to the perfect rule; and then, if he find all well, he may indeed glory of himself. But that
which thou hast by comparison with others is not thine own. Thou must come down from all such
advantages of ground, if thou would have thy just measure. And indeed, if thou prove thyself
and thy work after this manner, thou wilt be the first to reprove thyself, thou shalt have
that glory due unto thee, that is none at all. For every man shall bear his own burden, when
he appears before the judgment seat of God. There is no place for such imaginations and comparisons
in the Lord’s judgment.

Thirdly, When a Christian looks within his own heart, he finds an inclination and desire to
have the love of others, even though his conscience witness that he deserves it not. He finds
an approbation of that good and righteous command of God, that others should love him. Now
hence he may persuade himself—Is it so sweet and pleasant to me to be loved of others, even
though I am conscious that I have wronged them? Hath it such a beauty in my eye, while I am
the object of it? Why then should it be a hard and grievous burden to me to love others, though
they have wronged me, and deserve it no more than I did? Why hath it not the same amiable aspect,
when my brother is the object of it? Certainly no reason for it, but because I am yet carnal,
and have not that fundamental law of nature yet distinctly written again upon my heart, “What
ye would that others should do to you, do it to them,” Matth. vii. 12. If I be convinced that
there is any equity and beauty in that command, which charges others to love me, forgive me,
and forbear me, and restore me in meekness, why should it be a grievous command that I should
pay that debt of love and tenderness to others? 1 John v. 3. “For this is the love of God,
that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not grievous.”

In the third place. Consider to whom this affection should be extended. More generally to all
men, as fellow creatures, but particularly and especially to all who are begotten of God, as
fellow Christians. “And this commandment have we from him, that he who loveth God love his
brother also. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and every one that
loveth him that begat, loveth him also that is begotten of him,” 1 John iv. 21, and chap v.
1. “As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who
are of the household of faith,” Gal. vi. 10. “O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou
art my Lord, my goodness extendeth not to thee: but unto the saints that are in the earth,
and to the excellent in whom is all my delight,” Psal. xvi. 2, 3. And this consideration the
Holy Ghost suggests to make us maintain love and unity. We are begotten of one Father, and
that by a divine birth, we have such a high descent and royal generation!  There are so many
other bonds of unity between us, it is absurd that this one more should not join all.  “One
Lord, one faith, one baptism, one body, one spirit, called to one hope, one God and Father
of all,” Eph. iv. 2-6.  All these being one, it is strange if we be not one in love.  If so
many relations beget not a strong and warm affection, we are worse than infidels, as the apostle
speaks, 1 Tim. v. 8.  “If a man care not for his own house, his worldly interests, he is worse
than an infidel,” for he has a natural affection.  Sure then this more excellent nature, a
divine nature we are partakers of, cannot want affection suitable to its nature.  Christianity
is a fraternity, a brotherhood, that should overpower all relations, bring down him of high
degree, and exalt him of low degree; it should level all ranks, in this one respect, unto the
rule of charity and love.  In Christ there is neither Jew nor Gentile.  There all differences
of tongues and nations are drowned in this interest of Christ, Col. iii. 11.  “Thou hast hid
those things from the wise and prudent, and revealed them unto babes,” Luke x. 21.  And “God
hath chosen the weak and foolish to confound the mighty and wise,” 1 Cor. i. 27.  Behold all
these outward privileges buried in the depths and riches of God’s grace and mercy.  Are we
not all called to one high calling?  Our common station is to war under Christ’s banner against
sin and Satan.  Why then do we leave our station, forget our callings, and neglect that employment
which concerns us all, and fall at odds with our fellow-soldiers, and bite and devour one another?
Doth not this give advantage to our common enemies?  While we consume the edge of our zeal
and strength of our spirits one upon another, they must needs be blunted and weakened towards
our deadly enemies.  If our brother be represented unto us under the covering of many faults,
failings, and obstinacy in his errors, or such like, if we can behold nothing but spots on
his outside, while we judge after some outward appearance, then, I say, we ought to consider
him again under another notion and relation, as he stands in Christ’s account, as he is radically
and virtually of that seed, which hath more real worth in it than all worldly privileges and
dignities. Consider him as he once shall be, when mortality shall be put off.  Learn to strip
him naked of all infirmities in thy consideration, and imagine him to be clothed with immortality,
and glory, and think how thou wouldest then love him.  If either thou unclothe him of his infirmities,
and consider him as vested now with the robe of Christ’s righteousness, and all glorious within,
or adorned with immortality and incorruption a little hence; or else, if thou clothe thyself
with such infirmities as thou seest in him, and consider that thou art not less subject to
failing, and compassed with infirmities, then thou shalt put on, and keep on, that bond of
perfection, charity.

Lastly.  Let us consider the excellent nature of charity, and how it is interested in, and
interwoven with all the royal and divine gifts and privileges of a Christian. All of them are
not ashamed of kindred and cognation with charity.  Is not the calling and profession of a
Christian honourable?  Sure to any behoving soul it is above a monarchy; for it includes an
anointing both to a royal and priestly office, and carries a title to a kingdom incorruptible
and undefiled. Shall God indeed dwell with men, said Solomon? That exalts the soul to a royalty,
and elevates it above mortality. Quam contempta res est homo si supra humana se non exerat!
“How base and contemptible a thing is man, except he lift up his head above human things to
heavenly and divine!”  And then is the soul truly magnified while it is ascending to its own
element, a divine nature. What more gracious than this, for a soul to dwell in God? And what
more glorious than this, God to dwell in the soul?  Charitas te domum Domini facit, et Dominum
domum tibi.  Felix artifex charitas quæ conditori suo domum fabricare potest! “Love makes the
soul a house for the Lord, and makes the Lord a house to the soul.  Happy artificer that can
build a house for its master!” Love bringeth him, who is the chief among ten thousand, into
the chambers of the heart. It lays him all night between its breasts; and is still emptying
itself of all superfluity of naughtiness, and purging out all vanity and filthiness, that there
may be more room for his Majesty. And then love dwells in God, in his love and grace, in his
goodness and greatness. The secret of his presence it delights in. Now this mutual inhabitation,
in which it is hard to say whether the Majesty of God does most descend, or the soul most ascend,
whether he be more humbled or it exalted, this brotherly love, I say, is the evidence and assurance
of it. “If we love one another, God dwells in us, and his love is perfected in us. 12, 16.
He that hath true Christian love, doth not only love and compassionate his brother, either
because of its own inclination towards him, or his misery and necessity, or his goodness and
excellency. These motives and grounds do not transcend mere morality, and so cannot beget a
love which is the symptom of Christianity. If there be no other motives than these, we do not
love so much for God as for ourselves; for compassion interesting itself with another man’s
misery, finds a kind of relief in relieving it. Therefore the will and good pleasure of God
must be the rule of this motion, and the love of God must begin in it and continue it. And
truly charity is nothing else but divine love in a state of condescent,(416) so to speak, or
the love of a soul to God manifested in the flesh. It is that love moving in a circle from
God towards his creatures, and unto God again, as his love to the creatures begins in himself
and ends in himself, 1 John iii. 17. Is it not a high thing to know God aright? 3. 7, 8. Love
is real light, light and life, light and heat both. “When your fathers did execute judgment,
and relieve the oppressed, &c. was not this to know me? saith the Lord,” Jer. xxii. 15, 16.
The practice of the most common things, out of the love of God, and respect to his commands,
is more real and true religion than the most profound and abstracted speculations of knowledge.
Then only is God known, when knowledge stamps the heart with fear and reverence of his Majesty
and love to his name, because then he is only known as he is a true and living God.

Love is real light and life. Is it not “a pleasant thing for the eye to behold the sun?” Light
is sweet, and life is precious. These are two of the rarest jewels given to men. 9-11. 14.
The light of Jesus Christ cannot shine into the heart, but it begets(417) love, even as intense
light begets heat, and where this impression is not made on the heart, it is an evidence that
the beams of that Sun of righteousness have not pierced it.  O how suitable is it for a child
of light to walk in love! And wherefore is it made day light to the soul, but that it may rise
up and go forth to labour, and exercise itself in the works of the day, duties of love to God
and men? Now in such a soul there is no cause of stumbling, no scandal, no offence in its way
to fall over.  When the light and knowledge of Christ possesses the heart in love, there is
no stumbling block of transgression in its way. It doth not fall and stumble at the commandments
of righteousness and mercy as grievous, “therefore love is the fulfilling of the law,” Rom.
xiii. 10.  And so the way of charity is the most easy, plain, expedient, and safe way.  In
this way there is light shining all alongst it, and there is no stumbling block in it.  For
the love of God and of our brethren hath polished and made it all plain, hath “taken away the
asperities and tumours of our affections and lusts.”  Complanavit affectus. “Great peace have
all they that love thy law, and nothing shall offend them.” Love makes an equable and constant
motion, it moves swiftly and sweetly.  It can loose many knots without difficulty, which other
more violent principles cannot cut, it can melt away mountains before it, which cannot be hauled
away.  Albeit there be many stumbling blocks without in the world, yet there is none in charity,
or in a charitable soul.  None can enter into that soul to hinder it to possess itself in meekness
and patience.  Nothing can discompose it within, or hinder it to live peaceably with others.
Though all men’s hands be against it, yet charity is against none.  It defends itself with
innocence and patience.  On the other hand, “He that hateth his brother is in darkness even
till now.” For if Christ’s light had entered, then the love of Christ had come with it, and
that is the law of love and charity. If Jesus Christ had come into the soul, he had restored
the ancient commandment of love, and made it new again.  As much of the want of love and charity,
so much of the old ignorance and darkness remains.  Whatsoever a man may fancy of himself that
he is in the light, that he is so much advanced in the light, yet certainly this is a stronger
evidence of remaining darkness, for it is a work of the darkest darkness, and murdering affection,
suitable only for the night of darkness.  And such a man knows not whither he goes, and must
needs incur and fall upon many stumbling blocks within and without.  It is want of love and
charity that blinds the mind and darkens the heart, that it cannot see how to eschew and pass
by scandals in others, but it must needs dash and break its neck upon them.  Love is a light
which may lead us by offences inoffensively, and without stumbling.  In darkness men mistake
the way, know not the end of it, take pits for plain ways, and stumble in them.  Uncharitableness
casts a mist over the actions and courses of others, and our own too, that we cannot carry
on either without transgression. And this is the misery of it, that it cannot discern any fault
in itself.  It knows not whither it goeth, calls light darkness and darkness light.  It is
partial in judgment, pronounces always on its own behalf, cares not whom it condemn, that it
may absolve itself.

Is there any privilege so precious as this, to be “the sons of God?” 1 John iii. 2. What are
all relations, or states, or conditions, to this one, to be the children of the Highest?  It
was David’s question, “Should I be the king’s son in law?” Alas! what a petty and poor dignity
in regard of this, to be “the sons of God,” partakers of a divine nature?  All the difference
of birth, all the distinction of degrees and qualities amongst persons, besides this one, are
but such as have no being, no worth but in the fancy and construction of them.  They really
are nothing, and can do nothing. This only is a substantial and fundamental difference.  A
divine birth carries along with it a divine nature, a change of principles, from the worst
to the best, from darkness to light, from death to life.  Now, imagine then, what excellency
is in this grace, which is made the character of a son of God, of one begotten of the Father,
and passed from death to life?  1 John iii. 10, 14.  “In this the children of God are manifest,
and the children of the devil.  Whosoever doth not righteousness is not of God, neither he
that loveth not his brother.  It is monstrous and unnatural to see it otherwise.  But besides,
there is in this a great deal of resemblance of their Father, whose eminent and signal property
it is, to be good to all and kind even to the unthankful, and whose incomparable glory it is
to pardon iniquity, and suffer long patiently. A Christian cannot resemble his Father more
nearly than in this. Why do we account that baseness in us which is glory to God? Are we ashamed
of our birth, or dare we not own our Father? Shall we be ashamed to love them as brethren whom
he hath not been ashamed to adopt as sons, and whom Christ is not ashamed to call brethren?

Chapter IV.

We shall not be curious in the ranking of the duties in which Christian love should exercise
itself. All the commandments of the second table are but branches of it: they might be reduced
all to the works of righteousness and of mercy. But truly these are interwoven through other.
Though mercy uses to be restricted to the showing of compassion upon men in misery, yet there
is a righteousness in that mercy, and there is mercy in the most part of the acts of righteousness,
as in not judging rashly, in forgiving, &c. Therefore we shall consider the most eminent and
difficult duties of love, which the word of God solemnly and frequently charges upon us in
relation to others, especially these of the household of faith.

I conceive we would labour to enforce upon our hearts, and persuade our souls to a love of
all men, by often ruminating upon the words of the Apostle, which enjoin us to “abound in love
towards all men,” 1 Thess. iii. 12. And this is so concerning, that he prays earnestly that
the Lord would make them increase in it, and this we should pray for too. An affectionate disposition
towards our common nature is not a common thing. Christianity enjoins it, and it is only true
humanity, Luke vi. 36, 37. 1: “I exhort therefore, that first of all, supplications, prayers,
intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men.” Prayers and supplications, earnest
prayers out of affection, should be poured out even for them that cannot, or do not pray for
themselves. Wherefore are we taught to pray, but that we may be the mouth of others? And since
an intercessor is given to us above, how are we bound to be intercessors for others below,
and so to be affected with the common mercies of the multitude, as to give thanks too! If man,
by the law of creation, is the mouth of the stones, trees, birds, beasts, of heaven and earth,
sun and moon and stars, how much more ought a Christian, a redeemed man, be the mouth of mankind
to praise God for the abounding of his goodness, even towards these who are left yet in that
misery and bondage that he is delivered from?

Next, Charity by all means will avoid scandal, and live honestly in the sight of all men. The
apostle says, “Give none offence, neither to the Jews nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church
of God,” 1 Cor. x. 32. 33. Charity is not self addicted. It hath no humour to please. It can
displease itself to profit others. I do verily think there is no point of Christianity less
regarded. Others we acknowledge, but we fail in practice. This scarce hath the approbation
of the mind. Few do conceive an obligation lying on them to it. But O how is Christianity,
the most of it, humanity? Christ makes us men as well as Christians. He makes us reasonable
men when believers. Sin transformed our nature into a wild, beastly, viperous, selfish thing.
Grace restores reason and natural affection in the purest and highest strain. And this is reason
and humanity, elevated and purified,—to condescend to all men in all things for their profit
and edification, to deny itself to save others. Whatsoever is not necessary in itself, we ought
not to impose a necessity upon it by our imagination and fancy, to the prejudice of a greater
necessity, another’s edification. Indeed charity will not, dare not sin to please men. That
were to hate God, to hate ourselves, and to hate our brethren, under a base pretended notion
of love.  But I believe, addictedness to our own humours in things not necessary, which have
no worth but from our disposition, doth oftener transport us beyond the bounds of charity than
the apprehension of duty and conscience of sin. Some will grant they should be tender of offending
the saints. But they do not conceive it is much matter what they do in relation to others,
as if it were lawful to murder a Gentile more than a Christian. That is a bloody imagination,
opposite to that innocent Christian, Paul, who says (Philip. ii. And he says (in Col. iv. 5.),
“Walk in wisdom toward them that are without,” and (1 Thess. iv. 12.) “walk honestly toward
them that are without,”—avoiding all things, in our profession and carriage, which may alienate
them from the love of the truth and godliness walking so, as we may insinuate into their hearts
some apprehension of the beauty of religion. Many conceive, if they do good, all is well—if
it be a duty, it matters nothing. But remember that caution, “Let not then your good be evil
spoken of,” Rom. xiv. 16. We would have our eyes upon that too, so to circumstantiate all our
duties, as they may have least offence in them, and be exposed to least obloquy of men, 1 Pet.
ii. 12. “Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against
you as evil doers, they may by your good works which they shall behold, glorify God in the
day of visitation.”

Then, Thirdly, Charity follows peace with all men, as much as is possible, Heb. xii. 14. “If
it be possible as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men,” Rom. xii. 18.  Many spirits
are framed for contention.  If peace follow them, they will flee from it.  But a Christian
having made peace with God, the sweet fruit of that upon his spirit is to dispose him to a
peaceable and quiet condescendency to others, and if peace flee from him, to follow after it,
not only to entertain it when it is offered, but to seek it when it is away, and to pursue
it when it runs away. (Psal. xxxiv. 14, which Peter urges upon Christians, 1 Pet. iii. 8, 9,
10, 11.) “Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren,
be pitiful, be courteous. Let him eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.”
I think, since we obtained the mercy to get a Peace maker between us and God, we should henceforth
count ourselves bound to be peace makers among men. And truly such have a blessing pronounced
upon them, Matt. v. 9. “Blessed are the peace makers.” The Prince of peace pronounced it, and
this is the blessedness, “they shall be called the children of God,” because he is “the God
of peace,” and to resemble him in these, first in purity, then in peace, is a character of
his image. It is true, peace will sometimes flee so fast, and so far away, as a Christian cannot
follow it without sin, and that is breach of a higher peace. But charity, when it cannot live
in peace without, doth then live in peace within, because it hath that sweet testimony of conscience,
that, as far as did lie in it, peace was followed without. Divine wisdom (James iii. But if
it be pure it must be peaceable. For the wisdom descending from above hath a purity of truth,
and a purity of love, and a purity of the mind and of the affection too. Where there is a purity
of truth, but accompanied with envying, bitter strife, rigid judging, wrangling, and such like,
then it is defiled and corrupted by the intermixture of vile and base affections, ascending
out of the dunghill of the flesh. The vapours of our lusts arising up to the mind, do stain
pure truth. They put an earthly, sensual, and devilish visage on it.

Charity, its conversation and discourse, is without judging, without censuring, Matth. vii.
1. Of which chapter, because it contains much edification, I shall speak more hereafter. James
iii. 17. “Without partiality, without hypocrisy.” The words in the original are, αδιακριτος
και ανυποκριτος, (without judging and wrangling, and without hypocrisy), importing, that great
censurers are often the greatest hypocrites, and sincerity has always much charity. Truly,
there is much idle time spent this way in discourses of one another, and venting our judgments
of others, as if it were enough of commendation for us to condemn others, and much piety to
charge another with impiety. We should even be sparing in judging them that are without, 1
Cor. v. 12, 13. Reflecting upon them or their ways, hath more provocation than edification
in it. A censorious humour is certainly most partial to itself, and self indulgent. It can
sooner endure a great beam in its own eye, than a little mote in its neighbour’s, and this
shows evidently that it is not the hatred of sin, or the love of virtue, which is the single
and simple principle of it, but self love, shrouded under the vail of displeasure at sin, and
delight in virtue. I would think one great help to amend this, were to abate much from the
superfluity and multitude of discourses upon others. “In the multitude of words there wants
not sin,” and in the multitude of discourses upon other men, there cannot miss the sin of rash
judging. I find the saints and fearers of God commended for speaking often one to another,
but not at all for speaking one of another. The subject of their discourse (Mal. iii. 16.)
certainly was of another strain,—how good it was to serve the Lord, &c.—opposite to the evil
communication of others there registered.

Charity is no tale bearer. It goeth not about as a slander to reveal a secret, though true,
Prov. xx. 19. It is of a faithful spirit to conceal the matter, Prov. xi. 13. Another man’s
good name is as a pledge laid down in our hand, which every man should faithfully restore,
and take heed how he lose it, or alienate it by back-biting. Some would have nothing to say,
if they had not other’s faults and frailties to declaim upon, but it were better that such
kept always silent, that either they had no ears to hear of them or know them, or had no tongues
to vent them. If they do not lie grossly in it, they think they do no wrong. But let them judge
it in reference to themselves. “A good name is better than precious ointment,” (Eccles. vii.
1.) “and rather to be chosen than great riches,” Prov. xxii. 1. And is that no wrong, to defile
that precious ointment, and to rob or steal away that jewel more precious than great riches?
There is a strange connection between these. “Thou shalt not go up and down as a tale-bearer,
nor stand against the blood of thy neighbour,” Lev. xix. 16. It is a kind of murder, because
it kills that which is as precious as life to an ingenuous heart. “The words of a tale bearer
are as wounds, and they go down to the innermost parts of the belly,” Prov. xviii. 8 and xxvi.
22. They strike a wound to any man’s heart, that can hardly be cured, and there is nothing
that is such a seminary of contention and strife among brethren as this. It is the oil to feed
the flame of alienation. Take away a tale-bearer, and strife ceaseth, Prov. xxvi. 20. Let there
be but any (as there want not such who have no other trade or occupation), to whisper into
the ears of brethren, and suggest evil apprehensions of them, they will separate chief friends,
as we see it in daily experience, Prov. xvi. 28. “Revilers” are amongst these who are excluded
out of the kingdom of God, 1 Cor. vi. 10. And therefore, as the Holy Ghost gives general precepts
for the profitable and edifying improvement of the tongue, that so it may indeed be the glory
of a man, (which truly is no small point of religion, as James expresses, Chap. iii. 2. 11.)
because he puts himself in the place of the Lawgiver, and his own judgment and fancy in the
room of the law, and so judges the law. And therefore the Apostle Peter makes a wise and significant
connection, 1 Pet. ii. 1. “Laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies,
and all evil-speakings.” Truly, evil speaking of our brethren, though it may be true, yet it
proceeds out of the abundance of these, in the heart, of guile, hypocrisy, and envy. While
we catch at a name of piety from censuring others, and build our own estimation upon the ruins
of another’s good name, hypocrisy and envy are too predominant. If we would indeed grow in
grace by the word, and taste more how gracious the Lord is, we must lay these aside, and become
as little children, without guile, and without gall. Many account it excuse enough, that they
did not invent evil tales, or were not the first broachers of them; but the Scripture joins
both together. The man that “shall abide in his tabernacle” must neither vent nor invent them,
neither cast them down nor take them up, “He backbiteth not with his tongue, nor taketh up
a reproach against his neighbour;” (Psal. xv. 3.) or receiveth not or endureth not, as in the
margin. He neither gives it nor receives he it, hath not a tongue to speak of others’ faults,
nor ear to hear them. Indeed he hath a tongue to confess his own, and an ear open to hear another
confess his faults, according to that precept, “Confess your faults one to another.” We are
forbidden to have much society or fellowship with tale-bearers; and it is added, Prov. xx.
19, “And meddle not with such as flatter with their mouth,” as indeed commonly they who reproach
the absent, flatter the present; a backbiter is a face-flatterer. And therefore we should not
only not meddle with them, but drive them away as enemies to human society. Charity would in
such a case protect itself, if I may so say, by “an angry countenance,” an appearance of anger
and real dislike. “As the north wind drives away rain,” so that entertainment would drive away
a “backbiting tongue,” Prov. xxv. 23. If we do discountenance it, backbiters will be discouraged
to open their pack of news and reports: and indeed the receiving readily of evil reports of
brethren, is a partaking with the unfruitful works of darkness, which we should rather reprove,
Eph. v. 11. To join with the teller is to complete the evil report; for if there were no receiver
there would be no teller, no tale-bearer. “Charity covers a multitude of sins,” 1 Pet. iv.
8; and therefore “above all things have fervent charity among yourselves,” says he. What is
above prayer and watching unto the end, above sobriety? Indeed, in reference to fellowship
with God, these are above all; but in relation to comfortable fellowship one with another in
this world, this is above all, and the crown or cream of other graces. He whose sins are covered
by God’s free love, cannot think it hard to spread the garment of his love over his brother’s
sins. Hatred stirreth up strife, all uncharitable affections, as envy, wrath. It stirreth up
contentions, and blazeth abroad men’s infirmities. But “love covereth all sins,” concealeth
them from all to whom the knowledge of them doth not belong, Prov. x. 12. Love in a manner
suffers not itself to know what it knoweth, or at least to remember it much. It will sometimes
hoodwink itself to a favourable construction. It will pass by an infirmity and misken(418)
it, but many stand still and commune with it. But he that covereth a transgression seeks love
to bury offences in. Silence is a notable mean to preserve concord, and beget true amity and
friendship. The keeping of faults long above ground unburied, doth make them cast forth an
evil savour that will ever part friends. 9. Covering faults christianly, will make a stranger
a friend; but repeating and blazing of them will make a friend not only a stranger, but an
enemy. Yet this is nothing to the prejudice of that Christian duty of reproving and admonishing
one another, Eph. v. 11. “Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather
reprove them.” Love commands to reprove in the “spirit of meekness,” (Gal. vi. 1.) as a man
would restore an arm out of joint. And therefore thou “shall not hate him in thy heart, but
shall in any ways reprove him, and not suffer sin upon him,” Lev. xix. 17. And he that reproves
his brother after this manner from love, and in meekness and wisdom, “shall afterward find
more favour of him than he that flatters with his tongue,” Prov. xxviii. 23. To cover grudges
and jealousies in our hearts, were to nourish a flame in our bosom, which doth but wait for
a vent, and will at one occasion or other burst out. But to look too narrowly to every step,
and to write up a register of men’s mere frailties, especially so as to publish them to the
world; that is inconsistent with the rule of love. And truly, it is a token of one “destitute
of wisdom to despise his neighbour; but a man of understanding will hold his peace.” He that
has most defects himself, will find maniest(419) in others, and strive to vilify them one way
or other; but a wise man can pass by frailties, yea, offences done to him, and be silent, Prov.
xi. 12.

Chapter V.

Humility is the root of charity, and meekness the fruit of both. There is no solid and pure
ground of love to others, except the rubbish of self-love be first cast out of the soul; and
when that superfluity of naughtiness is cast out, then charity hath a solid and deep foundation:
“The end of the command is charity out of a pure heart,” 1 Tim. i. 5. It is only such a purified
heart, cleansed from that poison and contagion of pride and self-estimation, that can send
out such a sweet and wholesome stream, to the refreshing of the spirits and bowels of the church
of God. If self-glory and pride have deep roots fastened into the soul, they draw all the sap
and virtue downward, and send little or nothing up to the tree of charity, which makes it barren
and unfruitful in the works of righteousness, and fruits of mercy and meekness. There are obstructions
in the way of that communication, which only can be removed by the plucking up of these roots
of pride and self-estimation, which prey upon all, and incorporate all in themselves, and yet,
like the lean kine that had devoured the fat, are never the fatter or more well-favoured. 29.
This is the great Prophet sent of the Father into the world to teach us, whom he hath, with
a voice from heaven, commanded us to hear: “This is my well-beloved Son, hear him.” Should
not the fame and report of such a Teacher move us? He was testified of very honourably, long
before he came, that he had the Spirit above measure, that he had “the tongue of the learned;”
(Isa. l. 4.) that he was a greater prophet than Moses, (Deut. xviii. 15, 18.) that is, the
wonderful Counsellor of heaven and earth, (Isa. ix. 6.) the “Witness to the people,” a Teacher
and “Leader to the people.” And then, when he came, he had the most glorious testimony from
the most glorious persons,—the Father and the Holy Ghost,—in the most solemn manner that ever
the world heard of, Matth. xvii. 5. 8. This is the  Apostle and High Priest of our profession
(Heb. iii. 1.); “the light of the world and life of men,” John viii. 12. and vi. 33, 51. Having,
then, such a Teacher and Master, sent us from heaven, may we not glory in our Master? But some
may suppose, that he who came down from heaven, filled with all the riches and treasures of
heavenly wisdom, should reveal in his school unto his disciples, all the mysteries and profound
secrets of nature and art, about which the world hath ploded since the first taste of the tree
of knowledge, and beaten out their brains to the vexation of all their spirits, without any
fruit, but the discovery of the impossibility of knowing, and the increase of sorrow by searching.
Who would not expect, when the Wisdom of God descends among men, but that he should show unto
the world that wisdom, in the understanding of all the works of God, which all men have been
pursuing in vain; that he by whom all things were created, and so could unbowel and manifest
all their hidden causes and virtues, all their admirable and wonderful qualities and operations,
as easily by a word, as he made them by a word; who would not expect, I say, but that he should
have made this world, and the mysteries of it, the subject of all his lessons, the more to
illustrate his own glorious power and wisdom? And yet behold, they who had come into his school
and heard this Master and Doctor teach his scholars, they who had been invited to come, through
the fame and report of his name, would have stood astonished and surprised to hear the subject
of his doctrine; one come from on high to teach so low things as these, “Learn of me, I am
meek and lowly.” Other men that are masters of professions, and authors of sects or orders,
do aspire unto some singularity in doctrine to make them famous. But behold our Lord and Master,
this is the doctrine he vents! It hath nothing in it that sounds high, and looks big in the
estimation of the world. In regard of the wisdom of the world, it is foolishness, a doctrine
of humility from the most High! A lesson of lowliness and meekness from the Lord and Maker
of all! There seems, at first, nothing in it to allure any to follow it. Who would travel so
far as the college of Christianity to learn no more but this, when every man pretends to be
a teacher of it?

But truly there is a majesty in this lowliness and there is a singularity in this commonness.
If ye would stay and hear a little longer, and enter into a deep search of this doctrine, we
would be surcharged and overcome with wonders. It seems shallow till ye enter but it has no
bottom. Christianity makes no great noise, but it runs the deeper. It is a light and overly
knowledge of it, a small smattering of the doctrine of it, that makes men despise it and prefer
other things, but the deep and solid apprehension of it will make us adore and admire, and
drive us to an O altitudo! “O the depth both of the wisdom and knowledge of God!” Rom. xi.
33. As the superficial knowledge of nature makes men atheists, but the profound understanding
of it makes men pious so all other things, vilescit scientia, “grow more contemptible by the
knowledge of them.” It is ignorance of them which is the mother of that devout admiration we
bear to them. But Christianity only, vilescit ignorantia, clarescit scientia, is common and
base, because not known. And that is no disparagement at all unto it, that there is none despises
it, but he that knoweth it not, and none can do any thing, but despise all besides it that
once knows it. That is the proper excellency and glory of it.

All arts and sciences have their principles, and common axioms of unquestionable authority.
All kind of professions have some fundamental doctrines and points which are the character
of them. Christianity hath its principles too. And principles must be plain and uncontroverted;
they must be evident by their own light, and apt to give light to other things. All the rest
of the conclusions of the art are but derivations and deductions from them. Our Master and
Doctor follows the same method. He lays down some common principles some fundamental points
of this profession, upon which all the building of Christianity hangs. “Learn of me, for I
am meek and lowly.” This was the high lesson that his life preached so exemplarily, and his
doctrine pressed so earnestly, and in this he is very unlike other teachers who impose burdens
on others, and themselves do not so much as touch them. But he first practises his doctrine
and then preaches it. He first casts a pattern in himself, and then presses to follow it. Examples
teach better than rules, but both together are most effectual and sure. The rarest example
and noblest rule that ever was given to men are here met together.

The rule is about a thing that has a low name, but a high nature. Lowliness and meekness in
reputation and outward form, are like servants, yet they account it no robbery to be equal
with the highest and most princely graces. The vein of gold and silver lies very low in the
bowels of the earth, but it is not therefore base, but the more precious. Other virtues may
come with more observation, but these, like the Master that teaches them, come with more reality.
If they have less pomp, they have more power and virtue. Humility, how suitable is it to humanity!
They are as near of kin one to another, as homo and humus,(420) and therefore, except a man
cast off humanity, and forget his original, the ground, the dust from whence he was taken,
I do not see how he can shake off humility. Self knowledge is the mother of it, the knowledge
of that humus would make us humiles.(421) Look to the hole of the pit from whence thou art
hewn. A man could not look high that looked so low as the pit from whence we were taken by
nature, even the dust, and the pit from whence we are hewn by grace, even man’s lost and ruined
state. Such a low look would make a lowly mind. Therefore pride must be nothing else but an
empty and vain tumour, a puffing up. “Knowledge puffeth up,” not self knowledge. That casts
down, and brings down all superstructures, razes out all vain confidence to the very foundation,
and then begins to build on a solid ground. But knowledge of other things without, joined with
ignorance of ourselves within, is but a swelling, not a growing, it is a bladder or skin full
of wind, a blast or breath of an airy applause or commendation, will extend it and fill it
full. And what is this else but a monster in humanity, the skin of a man stuffed or blown up
with wind and vanity, to the shadow and resemblance of a man; but no bones or sinews, nor real
substance within? Pride is an excrescence. It is nature swelled beyond the intrinsic terms
or limits of magnitude, the spirit of a mouse in a mountain. And now, if any thing be gone
without the just bounds of the magnitude set to it, it is imperfect, disabled in its operations,
vain and unprofitable, yea, prodigious like. If there be not so much real excellency as may
fill up the circle of our self estimation, then surely it must be full of emptiness and vanity,
fancy and imagination must supply the vacant room, where solid worth cannot extend so far.
Now, I believe, if any man could but impartially and seriously reflect upon himself, he would
see nothing of that kind, no true solid and real dignity to provoke love, but real baseness
and misery to procure loathing. There is a lie in every sin, but the greatest and grossest
lie is committed in pride, and attribution of that excellency to ourselves which is not. And
upon what erroneous fancy, which is a sandy and vain foundation, is built the tower of self
estimation, vain gloriation, and such like? Pride, which is the mother of these, says most
presumptuously, “By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I am prudent,”
(Isa. x. 13.) “I am and none else besides me,” Isa. xlvii. 10. It is such a false imagination,
as “I am of perfect beauty,” “I am and none else,” “I am a god,” (Ezek. xxvii. 3. and xxviii.
2.) which swells and lifts up the heart. Now what a vain thing is it, an inordinate elevation
of the heart upon a false misapprehension of the mind? The “soul which is lifted up, is not
upright in him,” Hab. ii. 4. It must be a tottering building that is founded on such a gross
mistake.

Some cover their pride with the pretence of high spiritedness, and please themselves in apprehensions
of some magnanimity and generosity. But the truth is, it is not true magnitude, but a swelling
out of the superabundance of pestilent humours. True greatness of spirit is inwardly and throughout
solid, firm from the bottom, and the foundation of it is truth. Which of the two do ye think
hath the better spirit, he that calls dust, dust, and accounts of dung as dung, or he that,
upon a false imagination, thinks dust and dung is gold and silver, esteems himself a rich man,
and raises up himself above others? Humility is only true magnanimity, for it digs down low,
that it may set and establish the foundation of true worth. It is true, it is lowly, and bows
down low. But as the water that comes from a height, the lower it comes down the higher it
ascends up again, so the humble spirit, the lower it fall in its own estimation, the higher
it is raised in real worth and in God’s estimation. “He that humbles himself shall be exalted,
and he that exalts himself shall be abased,” Matt. xxiii. 12. He is like a growing tree, the
deeper the roots go down in the earth, the higher the tree grows above ground, as Jacob’s ladder,
the foot of it is fastened in the earth, but the top of it reaches the heaven. And this is
the sure way to ascend to heaven. Pride would fly up upon its own wings. But the humble man
will enter at the lowest step, and so goes up by degrees, and in the end is made manifest.
Pride catches a fall,(422) and humility is raised on high; it descended that it might ascend.
“A man’s pride shall bring him low, but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit,” Prov. xxix.
23. “Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.” But “before honour
is humility,” Prov. xvi. 18. and xviii. 12. The first week of creation, as it were, afforded
two signal examples of this wise permutation of divine justice, angels cast out of heaven,
and man out of paradise, a high and wretched aim at wisdom brought both as low as hell. The
pride of angels and men was but the rising up to a height, or climbing up a steep to the pinnacle
of glory, that they might catch the lower fall. But the last week of the creation, to speak
so, shall afford us rare and eminent demonstrations of the other, poor, wretched, and miserable
sinners lifted up to heaven by humility, when angels were thrown down from heaven for pride.
What a strange sight, an angel, once so glorious, so low, and a sinner, once so wretched and
miserable, so high! Happy lowliness, that is the foundation of true highness! “But miserable
highness that is the beginning of eternal baseness.” “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs
is the kingdom of heaven,” Matt. v. 3. Blessedness begins low, in poverty of spirit. And Christ’s
sermon upon blessedness begins at it, but it arises in the end to the riches of a kingdom,
a heavenly kingdom. Grace is the seed of glory, and poverty of spirit is the seed, first dead
before it be quickened to grow up in fruits. And indeed the grain “is not quickened except
it die,” (1 Cor. xv. 36) and then it gets a body, and “bringeth forth much fruit,” John xii.
24. Even so, grace is sown into the heart, but it is not quickened except it die in humility,
and then God gives it a body, when it springs up in other beautiful graces, of meekness, patience,
love, &c. But these are never ripe till the day that the soul get the warm beams of heaven,
being separated from the body, and then is the harvest a rich crop of blessedness. Holiness
is the ladder to go up to happiness by, or rather our Lord Jesus Christ as adorned with all
these graces. Now these are the steps of it, mentioned Matt. v., and the lowest step that a
soul first ascends to him by, is poverty of spirit, or humility. And truly the spirit cannot
meet with Jesus Christ till he first bring it down low, because he hath come so low himself,
as that no soul can ascend up to heaven by him, except they bow down to his lowliness, and
rise upon that step.

Now a man being thus humbled in spirit before God, and under his mighty hand, he is only fit
to obey the apostolic precept “Be ye all of you subject one to another,” 1 Pet. v. 5. Humility
towards men depends upon that poverty and self emptying under God’s mighty hand, ver. 6. It
is only a lowly heart that can make the back to bow, and submit to others of whatsoever quality,
and condescend to them of low degree, Rom. xii. 16, Eph. v. 21. But the fear of the Lord humbling
the spirit will easily set it as low as any other can put it. This is the only basis and foundation
of Christian submission and moderation. It is not a complemental condescendence. It consists
not in an external show of gesture and voice. That is but an apish imitation. And indeed pride
often will palliate itself under voluntary shows of humility, and can demean itself to undecent
and unseemly submissions to persons far inferior, but it is the more deformed and hateful,
that it lurks under some shadows of humility. As an ape is the more ugly and ill favoured that
it is liker a man, because it is not a man, so vices have more deformity in them when they
put on the garb and vizard of virtue. Only it may appear how beautiful a garment true humility
is, when pride desires often to be covered with the appearance of it, to hide its nakedness.
O how rich a clothing is the mean-like garment of humility and poverty of spirit! “Be ye clothed
with humility,” 1 Pet. v. 5. It is the ornament of all graces. It covers a man’s nakedness
by uncovering of it. If a man had all other endowments, this one dead fly, would make all the
ointment unsavoury, pride. But humility is condimentum virtutum, as well as vestimentum.(423)
It seasons all graces, and covers all infirmities. Garments are for ornament and necessity
both. Truly this clothing is alike fit for both, to adorn and beautify whatsoever is excellent,
and to hide or supply whatsoever is deficient:  ornamentum et operimentum.(424)

The apostle Paul gives a solemn charge to the Romans (Rom. xii. 3), that no man should think
high of himself; but soberly, according to the measure of faith given. That extreme undervaluing
and denial of all worth in ourselves, though it be suitable before God (Luke xvii. 6, 7, 10,
Prov. xxx. 2, 3, Job xlii. 6, 1 Cor. iii. 7), yet is uncomely and incongruous before men. Humility
doth not exclude all knowledge of any excellency in itself, or defect in another, it can discern,
but this is the worth of it: that it thinks soberly of the one, and despises not the other.
The humble man knows any advantage he has beyond another, but he is not wise in his own conceit.
He looks not so much upon that side of things, his own perfections and others’ imperfections.
That is very dangerous. But he casts his eye most on the other side, his own infirmities and
others’ virtues, his worst part and their best part, and this makes up an equality or proportion.
Where there is inequality, there is a different measure of gifts and graces, there are diverse
failings and infirmity, and degrees of them. Now, how shall so unequal members make up one
body, and join unto one harmonious being, except this proportion be kept, that the defects
of one be made up by the humility of another? The difference and inequality is taken away this
way, by fixing my eye most upon my own disadvantages and my brother’s advantages. If I be higher
in any respect, yet certainly I am lower in some, and therefore the unity of the body may be
preserved by humility. I will consider in what I come short, and in what another excels, and
so I can condescend to them of low degree. This is the substance of that which is subjoined.
(Rom. xii. Rom. xii. 10, “Be kindly affectioned one to another, with brotherly love, in honour
preferring one another.” Thus there may be an equality of mutual respect and love, where there
is an in equality of gifts and graces, there may be one measure of charity, where there are
different measures of faith, because both neglect that difference, and pitch upon their own
evils and another’s good.

It is our custom to compare ourselves among ourselves, and the result of that secret comparison
is estimation of ourselves, and despising others. We take our measure, not by our own real
and intrinsic qualifications, but by the stature of other men’s, and if we find any disadvantage
in others, or any pre-eminence in ourselves, in such a partial application and collation of
ourselves with others (as readily self love, if it find it not, will fancy it), then we have
a tacit gloriation within ourselves, and a secret complacency in ourselves. But the humble
Christian dares not make himself of that number, nor boast of things without his measure. He
dare not think himself good, because, deterioribus melior, “better than others who are worse.”
But he judges himself by that intrinsic measure which God hath distributed unto him, and so
finds reason of sobriety and humility, and therefore he dare not stretch himself beyond his
measure, or go without his station and degree, 2 Cor. x. 12-14. Humility makes a man compare
himself with the best, that he may find how bad he himself is. But pride measures by the worst,
that it may hide from a man his own imperfections. The one takes a perfect rule, and finds
itself nothing. The other takes a crooked rule, and imagines itself something. But this is
the way that unity may be kept in the body, if all the members keep this method and order,
the lowest to measure by him that is higher, and the higher to judge himself by him that is
yet above him, and he that is above all the rest, to compare with the rule of perfection, and
find himself further short of the rule than the lowest is below him. If our comparisons did
thus ascend, we would descend in humility, and all the different degrees of persons would meet
in one centre of lowliness of mind. But while our rule descends, our pride ascends. The scripture
holds out pride and self estimation as the root of many evils, and humility as the root of
many good fruits among men. “Only through pride comes contention,” Prov. xiii. 10. There is
pride at least in one of the parties, and often in both. It makes one man careless of another,
and out of contempt not to study equity and righteousness towards him, and it makes another
man impatient of receiving and bearing an injury or disrespect. While every man seeks to please
himself, the contention arises. Pride in both parties makes both stiff and inflexible to peace
and equity, and in this there is a great deal of folly. For, by this means, both procure more
real displeasure and dissatisfaction to their own spirits. “But with the well advised is wisdom.”
They who have discretion and judgment will not be so wedded to their own conceits, but that
in humility they can forbear and forgive for peace’ sake. And though this seem harsh and bitter
at first, to a passionate and distempered mind, yet O how sweet is it after! There is a greater
sweetness and refreshment in the peaceable condescendence of a man’s spirit, and in the quiet
passing by any injury, than the highest satisfaction that ever revenge or contention gave to
any man. “When pride comes, then comes shame, but with the lowly is wisdom,” Prov. xi. 2. Pride
groweth to maturity and ripeness. Shame is near hand it, almost as near as the harvest. If
pride come up, shame is in the next rank behind it. But there is a great wisdom in lowliness.
That is, the honourable society that it walks in. There may be a secret connection between
this and the former verse, “divers and false balances are abomination to the Lord, but a just
balance is his delight.” Now, if it be so in such low things as merchandise, how much more
abominable is a false spiritual balance in the weighing of ourselves! Pride hath a false balance
in its hand, the weight of self love carries down the one scale by far.

Lowliness of mind is the strongest bond of peace and charity. It banishes away strife and vain
glory, and makes each man to esteem another better than himself, (Philip. ii. 3) because the
humble man knows his own inside, and only another’s outside. Now certainly the outside is always
better and more specious than the inside, and therefore a humble man seeing nothing but his
neighbour’s outside, and being acquainted throughly with his own inside, he esteems another
better than himself. Humility, as it makes a man to think well of another, so it hinders him
to speak evil of his brother. James iv. He lays down the ground work in the 10th verse, “Humble
yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up.” He raises his superstructure,
verses 11, 12: “Speak not evil one of another, brethren. Or, because we are so short sighted
in ourselves, therefore we are sharp sighted towards others, and because we think little of
our own faults, we are ready to aggravate other men’s to an extremity. But in so doing we take
the place of the judge and law upon us, which judges others, and is judged by none. So we judge
others, and not ourselves. Neither will we suffer ourselves to be judged by others. This is
to make ourselves the infallible rule, to judge the law.

Humility levels men to a holy subjection and submission to another, without the confusion of
their different degrees and stations. It teaches men to give that respect and regard to even
one that is due to his place or worth, and to signify it in such a way as may testify the simplicity
of their estimation, and sincerity of their respect. Eph. v. 21, “Submit yourselves one to
another in the fear of God.” 1 Pet. v. 5, “All of you be subject one to another, and be clothed
with humility.” Now, if humility can put a man below others, certainly it will make him endure
patiently and willingly to be placed in that same rank by others. When others give him that
place to sit into, that he had chosen for himself, will he conceive himself wronged and affronted,
though others about him think so? Nay, it is hard to persuade him of an injury of that kind,
because the apprehension of such an affront hath for its foundation the imagination of some
excellency beyond others, which lowliness hath razed out. He hath placed himself so low for
every man’s edification and instruction, that others can put him no lower, and there he sits
quietly and peaceably. Bene qui latuit bene vixit.(425) Affronts and injuries fly over him,
and light upon the taller cedars, while the shrubs are safe.

Qui cadit in plano, (vix hoc tamen evenit ipsum,) Sic cadit, ut tacta surgere possit humo.(426)

He sits so low, that he cannot fall lower, so a humble man’s fall upon the ground is no fall
indeed, but in the apprehension of others, but it is a heavy and bruising fall from off the
tower of self conceit.

Now the example that is given us, “Learn of me,” is certainly of greater force to persuade
a man to this humble, composed, and quiet temper of spirit, than all the rules in the world.
That the Son of God should come down and act it before our eyes, and cast us a pattern of humility
and meekness, if this do not prevail to humble the heart, I know not what can. Indeed this
root of bitterness, which is in all men’s hearts by nature, is very hard to pluck up, yea,
when other weeds of corruption are extirpated this poisonable one, pride groweth the faster,
and roots the deeper. Suppose a man should be stript naked of all the garments of the old man,
this would be certainly nearest his skin and last to put off. It is so pestilent an evil, that
it grows in the glass window as well as on the dunghill and, which is strange, it can spring
out of the heart, and take moisture and aliment from humility, as well as from other graces.
A man is in hazard to wax proud that he is not proud, and to be high minded because he is lowly.
Therefore, it is not good to reflect much upon our own graces, no more than for a man to eat
much honey.

I know not any antidote so sovereign as the example of Jesus Christ, to cure this evil, and
he himself often proposes this receipt to his disciples, (John xiii. What apprehension of wrong
would it not compensate? What flame of contention about worth and respect would it not quench?
What noise of tumultuous passions would it not silence? Therefore, the apostle of the Gentiles
prescribes this medicine, (Phil. ii. If we knew ourselves, it were no strange thing that we
were humble, the evidence of truth would extort it from us. But here is the wonder, that he
who knew himself to be equal to God, should notwithstanding become lower than men, that the
Lord of all should become the servant of all, and the King of glory make himself of no reputation!
That he pleased to come down lowest, who knew himself to be the highest of all, no necessity
could persuade it, but charity and love hath done it. Now, then, how monstrous and ugly a thing
must pride be after this! That the dust should raise itself, and a worm swell, that wretched,
miserable man should be proud, when it please the glorious God to be humble, that absolute
necessity shall not constrain to this, that simple love persuaded him to!  How doth this heighten
and elevate humility, that such an one gives out himself, not only as the teacher, but as the
pattern of it.

The Publisher To The Reader.

There are no sermons I know of any divine or pastor in this kingdom, that have been more frequently
printed, or more universally read and esteemed, than the elegant and judicious discourses of
Mr. Binning, which were published after his death, at different times, in four small volumes.
As there was a great demand for these valuable writings, about twenty six years ago; so these
printed copies of them were compared with his own manuscript copy now in my hand, carefully
revised, and then printed, in a large 4to of 641 pages, by Robert Fleming, Printer at Edinburgh,
in the year 1735, to which was prefixed a short account of his Life, chiefly taken from the
large memoirs of his Life, that the Reverend Mr. Robert M’Ward, some time minister of the gospel
at Glasgow, wrote, in a long letter to the Reverend Mr. James Coleman, Minister of the gospel
at Sluys in Flanders, who translated Mr. Binning’s Sermons into High Dutch, and printed them
for the benefit of the Christian congregations in Holland and Flanders. Some of the most memorable
particulars of this great man’s life have been also published, anno 1753, by the reverend,
learned, and industrious Mr. John Wesley, late Fellow of Lincoln college, Oxford, in his Christian
Library, which contains about fifty volumes in 8vo of Extracts from, and Abridgments of, the
choicest pieces of practical Divinity, we have printed in our language. It is prefixed to Mr.
Binning’s Sermons upon the first and part of the second chapters of the first Epistle of John,
in the 29th volume of that useful work.(427)

Mr. Binning’s elegant and judicious Treatise of Christian Love was first printed from a manuscript
in my hand, at Edinburgh, 1743, in an octavo pamphlet of forty-seven pages, in short print,
by Robert Fleming, to which he hath prefixed a short preface. And the publisher tells us, “That
he had revised about twenty four sermons, upon very edifying and profitable subjects, to print
in a separate volume, from which they [his readers] should receive as great improvement and
satisfaction, as from any of his printed treatises, which every person may easily discover
from the style and language to be Mr. Binning’s genuine compositions, as his manner of writing
can scarcely be imitated by any other person.” These sermons were carefully transcribed some
little time ago, and revised by the assistance of a friend, and are now printed in this small
volume.... And not to detain the reader further from the serious and candid perusal of this
book, I shall only add, that I have faithfully transcribed these sermons from the manuscript
copy without the smallest alteration of his sentiments. I have endeavoured to rectify a few
grammatical errors of the transcribers and the old form of spelling, and altered a few words
not now used in our modern sermons, for words of the same meaning. As I have added several
sermons of this author upon the kingdom of God, which I transcribed since the proposals of
this book were printed, so I could not insert the sermons upon Acts xxvi. 18; Acts xiv. 11,
12, without almost doubling the price, which I feared would not be agreeable to some of the
encouragers of this work. I intend to put the other sermons I have transcribed, or may yet
copy, into the hands of some friends to revise before they be printed; as also Mr. M’Ward’s
Life of this worthy gentleman, taken from his own papers....

It is my sincere wish, that all the readers of this book may be builded up in spiritual wisdom
and goodness unto eternal life. These are in all men’s mouths; and no question they are very
dangerous, so hazardous, as many fools make shipwreck either of the faith, or a good conscience,—of
the faith, by running upon and dashing upon the rock,—of a good conscience, by sitting down
upon the quicksand. But I fear that which is commonly confessed by all is cordially believed
by few, and so, little regarded in our course and conversation. All Christians pretend to be
making a voyage heaven-ward, and that is only home-ward. Now the gospel is given us to direct
our course, and teach us how to steer between these two hazards, both safely and surely. This
is the shore that shall guide us, and conduct to our intended haven, that is heaven, if we
set our compass by it, and steer our course accordingly. Yet strange it is to behold the infinite
wanderings and errors of men, on the one hand or the other:—some presuming upon the news of
mercy, and the sound of God’s grace, to walk after the imagination of their own hearts, and
to live and continue in sin, for which Christ died, that he might redeem us from it, fancying
a possibility of living in sin, and escaping wrath, and so abusing the tender of grace to promote
licentiousness;—others, again, apprehending the wrath of God, and their just deservings, abusing
the notion of God’s justice, and the perfection of his holiness, to the prejudice of the glory
of his grace and mercy, and their own salvation. This is certainly the cunning sleight of Satan,
with the deceitfulness and ignorance of our own hearts, that leads men, and sometimes one and
the same man, at diverse times, to contrary misapprehensions of divine truths. The wind of
temptation gets fires to one corner of the house and then to another, and sometimes over-persuades
the notion of mercy, and another time overstretches the apprehension of his justice; and yet
in effect there is no true persuasion of any of them, but a cloud or shadow is apprehended
instead of them.

Now I say, there is one cure for both these,—the right apprehension of the gospel in its entire
and whole sum, the right uptaking of the light which shines in a dark place, and is given to
lead us to our place of rest—to have a complete model, and a short summary of the gospel, always
in our heart and eye. For truly it is the apprehending of parcels of divine truth, which leads
men into such opposite mistakes and courses. To remedy this, we have some brief comprehensive
models of the gospel set down by the Holy Ghost, and none in better terms than this here: “This
is his commandment, that ye believe,” &c. You have it in two words, faith and love. This is
the form of sound words which we should hold fast, 2 Tim. i. 13. This is the mould of doctrine
delivered by Christ and his Apostles. It is the separation of these two in some men’s fancy,
that leads too many in such paths of destruction. Truly they can as little be divided as the
sun’s light and heat, but the motions and shadows of them may, and it is the following the
shadows of some of them which shipwrecks souls. Now not only the common multitude of the hearers
of the gospel are in hazard of this, but even God’s own children, who have believed in him.

The taking up of these things apart, creates the heart much trouble and perplexity, and occasioneth
much sin and stumbling. I do think it is the ignorance and advertency of this conjunction,
that makes our case both more sad and sinful than otherwise it would be. And these two indeed
have a mutual influence upon one another, loosing reins to sin more freely, for it unquestionably
disturbs the soul’s peace, and procures it much bitterness. And again, the quitting hold of
the promise of grace in Christ Jesus, and the indulging our own sad and sullen apprehensions,
cannot but in the issue disable the soul from the duties of love, and expose it unto the violence
of every temptation. As these two do mutually strengthen one another, the faith of Jesus Christ,
and the lively apprehension of his grace and goodness, so they are the most noble and effectual
persuasives to live unto him, and to walk in love. Besides, faith is the mean and way which
God hath appointed to convoy his influence unto the soul; and then again, love carrying itself
actively in duties to God and men, bestirring itself for God and those who are beloved of God,
it brings in a supply to faith, and returns by a straight compass to the spring from whence
it first issued, and increases it still more. Believing on the name of the Son sends forth
the stream of holy affection to him, and all begotten of the Father, and this returns again
by the circuit of obedience to his commands and submission to his easy yoke, to unbosom itself
in the fountain from whence it first issued; and whereas faith was at first one simple soul
adherence to a Saviour, and a hearty embracing of him, this accession of the fruits of it exalts
it unto that height of assurance, and gives that evidence which it wanted; and faith being
thus strengthened, and rooted, and built up to the top of assurance of God’s grace, love, and
salvation, it becomes more able to bear the yoke of his commands, which are not grievous. The
spring of believing, thus swelled by the concurrence of so many streams, it breaks forth the
more, and sends out more love and delight in God, and more charity, compassion, and meekness
towards men. And this is the circle and round Christianity runs, until that day come that the
head-spring of faith shall be obscured and shrivelled up in the great sea of the love of God,
which shall overflow all the saints’ graces in due time, when we shall see God face to face.

This is a true Christian, which this apostle so beloved of God describes. Here is one under
a commandment, and not above it, as some fondly conceive. He is a keeper of his commands, and
a doer of these things which are pleasant in God’s sight. This is no legal notion, if it be
right taken.

It is not the bondage of the creature to be under the command of God, truly it is the beauty
and liberty of a reasonable soul. Some speak of all subjection unto a law as slavery, but is
it not an infinitely greater slavery to be at liberty to sin, and serve our own lusts? O wretched
and base liberty! the Son indeed makes us truly free, and that from sin; and he is truly a
Redeemer who redeems us from all iniquity, John viii. 32; Psal. cxxx. ult.; Tit. ii. 14.

But this commandment here spoken of, would not indeed be gospel, unless there was a prior command,
a brighter precept, given by the Father to the Son. I find two commands given by the Father,
and received by the Son, which two you may conjoin and make one of, as here faith and love
are made one commandment. The first is, John x. 18, “I lay down my life of myself, no man taketh
it from me. This commandment have I received from my Father, and no other.” John xii. The great
commandment was imposed upon our Saviour. The great weight of that wrath due to our sins was
put upon his shoulders. This was the Father’s will, that he should lay down his life for his
sheep; this command he received willingly, and obeyed faithfully and fully. And by his obedience
to this, that great obligation to satisfy God’s justice, and pay a ransom for our souls is
taken off us; inasmuch as he died, justice cannot come and demand it at our hand. Now, therefore,
there is another commandment given to Christ, which directly concerns us, and it is this in
substance: “I will and command that thou who hast come in the place of sinners, and resolvest
to die for them, that thou give eternal life to whom thou wilt, even to as many as believe
in thy name; I give to thee the absolute disposal of life and death; I command thee to preach
life everlasting to all pious souls, that shall flee unto thee upon the apprehension of the
danger of death, and that thou bestow that life upon them, and raise them up at the last day
to be partakers of it.” This is the commission the Father gave to the Son, a sweet commission
for poor sinners, and the charter of our salvation. And for this errand he was anointed with
the Holy Spirit, and sent into the world; nay, the commission extends further than grace, even
to eternal glory also. Christ has received commandment of the Father, to give repentance and
remission of sin, both to give faith, and love, and all other graces, else it were defective.
Thus Christ comes instructed to the world. He lays open his commission in preaching the gospel.
He obeys the first commandment in his own person, by offering up himself upon the cross a sacrifice
for sins, and he is about the fulfilling the next commandment, that is, the giving life to
them that believe: and that he may accomplish it, having ascended himself unto heaven to intercede
for us, he also sent his ambassadors into the world, to whom he hath committed the word of
reconciliation, and he gives them commission to publish and proclaim this commandment in his
own name. This is his command, that ye “believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ.” And this
we do proclaim in his name, since he has gotten a commandment to give life everlasting to believers.
This, then, is his charge to you, to come and receive it from him. Come and embrace him, and
ye shall have life and all in him. This is the hardest and heaviest burden he imposes upon
you, the weight of your life and salvation he hath taken upon himself. But O! now come and
lay hold on him, who is thus offered unto you. Know that you are lost and undone in yourselves,
consider the impossibilities you lie under to escape his wrath. Behold the anger of God hanging
over your head, ready to be revealed in flaming fire, and a tempestuous cloud of eternal misery.
Will ye consider that ye are born heirs of wrath? Your natural inheritance is in the lake of
fire; and whatsoever your endowments by nature, or your privileges by birth be, nothing shall
exeem you from this. Shall not then this Saviour be welcome to you? For truly faith is but
a cordial salutation and embracement of our blessed Redeemer. The soul brings him into the
house, and makes him welcome, and he is standing ready to come in to your heart, and to bring
in salvation with him.

Now whatever soul hath obeyed this commandment by belief of the truth, and receiving of Christ
into the heart, there is but one commandment behind, and it is not grievous, viz., love me,
and love one another; love me, and live unto me. This is an easy yoke; and there is good reason
for it, though it had never been required to love him, and live to him, who loved not his life
unto the death for us. There is mention made only of brotherly love here, but certainly the
other love to God flowing from the sense of his love, is the right wing of the soul, and brotherly
love the left; and by these the pious soul mounts up to heaven with the wings of an eagle.
The love of our brother is but the fruit and consequent of this love, but it is set down as
a probation, and clear evidence of the love of God in our souls.

Love is commanded as the very sum and substance of the whole law, as the fountain of all other
duties. Things are compacted in their causes, and lie hid within the virtue of them. Truly
this is the way to persuade and constrain you to all the duties of godliness and righteousness,
of piety towards God, and charity towards men,—if once we could fasten this chain of affection
upon your hearts, and engage your souls by love to God and man. We cannot but beat the air,
while we seek to persuade you to the serious practice of religious duties, of prayer in secret
and in your families, of reading and meditation upon the word, of sanctifying the Sabbath,
of dealing justly and moderately with all men, of sobriety and temperance in your conversation,
of denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, of walking humbly with God and towards men, of restraining
and subduing your inordinate lusts and passions; I say, it is almost in vain to press these
things upon you, or expect them from you, till once the Spirit of power and love enter into
your hearts; and indeed the spirit of love is a powerful spirit, the love of God possessing
the heart within, cannot but conform all within and without to his love and good pleasure.
Love only can do these things which are pleasant in his sight, for it doth them pleasantly,
heartily, and cheerfully; and God loves a cheerful giver, a cheerful worshipper. Brotherly
love is rather expressed, because little or not at all studied by the most part. Other duties
to God, if men come not up in practice to them, yet they approve them in their soul and mind.
But there is scarce a notion of the obligation of charity and love towards our brethren, yea,
not so much as in the minds of Christians, let be in their practice. It is the special command
which Christ left to his disciples when he was going away, John xiii. 35. But, alas! we have
forgotten it, it is so long since.

Sermon II.

    1 John iii. 23.—“This is his commandment, that,” &c.

We commonly make many rules in religion, and turn it into a laborious art, full of intricate
questions, precepts, and contentions. As there hath been a great deal of vanity in the conception
of speculative divinity, by a multitude of vain and unedifying questions which have no profit
in them, or are beneficial to them that are occupied therein, but only have stirred up strife
and envy, and raised the flame of contention in the Christian world; so I fear that practical
divinity is no less vitiated and spoiled in this age amongst true Christians (by many perplexed
cases relating to every condition), than the other among the schoolmen. Hereby it seems to
me, that Christ and his apostles did not suppose it to be so perplexed a business as we now
do make it; neither did the hearers weary themselves or others with so many various objections
against the practice of the fundamental commandment of the gospel, believing in Jesus Christ.
The plain nature of the gospel being holden forth and received, I am persuaded, was and is
able (like the sun arising in brightness) to dispel and scatter all these mists and clouds
which do arise both in the one and other, from ignorance at first, and which are elevated to
a greater height by the custom of the times. The matter, my brethren, is not so dark as you
make it. Here it is plainly and simply expressed: “This is his commandment, that ye believe
in the name of his Son;” and then, “love one another.” Ye all know that we had commandments
given us by God, which were by nature impressed on the heart of man; but by his fall into sin,
the tables of the law (which I may say were in Adam’s mind and heart, understanding and affection),
those two tables were broken in the fall, and since there could be no obedience, because of
ignorance and perversion, the tables breaking in pieces, their ruptures have produced these
two opposite principles. The fall of man hath broken his mind, and so darkened his understanding,
and broken his will, and put it in a wrong set. This appointed it, set it in a posture of enmity
against God. However, we are by this fall utterly disabled to stand up before God in acceptable
obedience. There is no man breathing, how blameless soever he be before the world, but must
fall down as guilty before God in many things, yea, in all things. But the law being thus obliterated
out of men’s consciences, as he lost ability to obey, so he lost almost all conscience of sin
and disobedience. He not knowing his charge and obligation, could not accuse himself for falling
in rebellion. Therefore it pleased the Lord to cause the law to be written in tables of stone
in mount Sinai. He transcribes the commandments over again, that all the world may see their
obligation, and how infinitely short they have come in their subjection, and how just their
condemnation may be. For this purpose, the Lord causes proclaim the old bond in the ears of
men with great majesty and authority, as it became the Lawgiver, that all may become guilty,
and stop their mouth before God, Rom. iii. 19. He would once have all men knowing that they
are under infinite breaches of his commandments, that they may see themselves also subject
to his judgment. Now, what do you think of a soul that stands at the foot of this mountain,
and hears a dreadful accusation read against it, to all which the conscience within must subscribe
unto, and both together pronounce the person guilty and liable to eternal punishment? I say,
what can such a soul do, who has with trembling heard his voice? Satisfaction there cannot
be given for an infinite offence against an infinite nature. The curse and sentence which was
the sanction and confirmation of this commandment is just, and there appears no way how, without
violation of God’s justice, it can be repealed. Obedience to these commandments is now both
impossible and unprofitable;—impossible, I say, because of the weakness and wickedness of the
flesh, that has no ability nor willingness but to offend and disobey; and unprofitable, because
it cannot at all relax the former sentence of condemnation. Now obedience, being a present
duty, cannot pay old debts, or satisfy for our former rebellions, and so it must leave a man
to seen condemnation. I fear this is a puzzle that all consciences must come unto here, or
elsewhere. Here is a strait indeed.

But yet there is an enlargement, there is a way found out of bringing the soul out of the miry
clay, and deep pit of misery; and it is this, God hath found out a ransom for himself, without
our procurement, or consent, or knowledge. He hath provided a satisfaction to his justice in
his Son Jesus Christ. Having laid upon him our iniquities, he exacts of him our deserved punishment,
and makes him a curse who knew no sin. Now this being done, the Lord sends forth to all poor
sinners who are trembling at mount Sinai this proclamation,—this is my last and most peremptory
command, that ye believe in the name of my Son Jesus Christ. This is my well-beloved Son, in
whom I am well-pleased, hear ye him. Have ye heard me the lawgiver condemning you? Now go and
hear him, the Mediator and Saviour, absolving you, for I have committed all judgment unto him.
Though I pronounce the sentence in this world against you, yet I have committed all the execution
of it to him, and if you come to him, you may prevent it. You have broken all my former commandments,
and I have pronounced a sentence against you for that. But now I give a new commandment instead
of all the former, which if you obey, then the sentence of death is relaxed. You who cannot
obey the law and give satisfaction in your own persons, I charge you to flee unto my Son Christ,
who hath given me full satisfaction both to the curse, by suffering, and to the command, by
obedience, and lay hold on his righteousness as your own, and in him ye are justified, and
delivered from all these sentences and hard writings against you. I give a new commandment
as the cure and remedy of all broken commandments. Believe on this name, in which is salvation.
Take his obedience and suffering for your cure, and present me with that, I shall be as well
satisfied as with your own personal satisfaction.

This now is very plain business. All commands are broken. There is yet one published in the
gospel to help all, and it is in substance to embrace and welcome Jesus Christ for all, to
seek our life and salvation in him, to take him as a priest to offer sacrifice for us, and
expiate our sins, and to come to him as a prophet to seek wisdom and illumination, and all
grace from him; to choose him as our King, henceforth to submit to his easy yoke of government.
Now I say there will be no more debates about this. Will ye yet dispute whether ye may believe
or not? Will ye inquire after this whether you have a warrant or not? Truly such a question
would occasion much jealousy and provocation among men. If a man had signified as much willingness
by command, by invitation, by request, by frequent repetition of these, yet to call in question
or dispute whether or not I may go to such a person, will he make me welcome, were it not the
greatest affront I could put upon him? Would it not alienate his affection more than any thing,
to be jealous of his real kindness to me.

I would desire to hold out unto you the sin, the danger, and the vanity of such a way. I say
the sin is great, it is no less than the highest and most heinous disobedience to the gospel,
which of all others is of the deepest dye. You have disobeyed the law, and broken all the ten
commandments. And will ye therefore disobey the gospel, too, and break this fundamental commandment?
Is it not enough that ye have broken the rest, and will ye break this also, which was given
for the cure of all?

Consider, I say, this is his commandment. Now commands should be obeyed, and not disputed,
coming from an infallible and uncontrollable authority. Would ye not silence all the rebellions
of your hearts against the commands of praying, hearing, reading, dealing justly, and walking
soberly, with this one word, it is his command, it is his sovereign will? And why do ye not
see the stamp of that same authority upon this? Now if you consider it aright, it hath more
authority upon it than upon others, because it is his last command, and so would be taken as
most pungent and weighty. When your hearts rise up to question and dispute this matter, I pray
you cut all these knotty objections with the sword of his commandment. You use to go about
to loose them by particular answers and untie them at leisure with art and skill, but truly
it would be a readier and wiser course to cut them in pieces at one stroke, by this piercing
and pungent precept. If your reasons and scruples be weighty, and you cannot get answers to
overbalance them, I pray you put this weighty seal of divine authority into the balance, and
sure I am it will weigh down all. Consider then the danger of it. It is the last and most peremptory
command, after which you may expect no other, but the execution of justice. How sad and severe
is the certification, “He that believeth not is condemned already,” and “the wrath of God abideth
on him.” There needs no new sentence to be pronounced against you. Why? Because, if you believe
not, that prior sentence of the law is yet standing above your heads to condemn you, that wrath
abides on you. This is the only way to remove it, to come to him, who hath taken it on himself,
after the breach of all commands. Ye have this retreat, this refuge to flee unto, a new command
to come unto the Son, and have life; but after this disobedience of the Son, you have none.
There is nothing after unbelief, but ye are turned over, or rather left over, in the hand of
the law and divine justice. Therefore it is the most dangerous and damnable thing to disobey
this. It is to refuse the very remedy of sin. Consider also what vanity and uselessness is
in these debates. What an unreasonable and senseless thing is it to dispute against our own
soul, and against our own happiness! All is wrapt up here, and we do no less than the highest
act of self-murder that can be. He that hateth me, wrongs his own soul. What an unreasonable
thing then is it, because ye are miserable, to refuse mercy; because ye are unclean, therefore
to maintain that ye are not to come to the blessed fountain of cleansing; because ye have broken
the rest of the commands, therefore ye may not obey this? Is there any sense or reason in such
things; because I am a sinner, therefore I will not come to a Saviour? Alas! to what purpose
was the Son sent and given, and for what end came he? Was it not to seek and to save such as
are lost and undone, and to deliver them from misery? What do you gain by such questions? For
at length you must turn and enter in at the door of a naked command and promise, when you have
wearied yourselves to find that in your hearts which is not in them, to seek waters in the
wilderness, and springs in the desert, qualifications and graces in your own hearts to warrant
your boldness in coming to the promise. I say, when you have sought and all in vain, you must
at length come to this fountain in which is all grace and happiness. If you had what you seek,
yet if ye would indeed believe in Christ, you must deny them and look upon yourselves as ungodly,
to be justified by faith. Why then do you grasp after that which can do you no good, (though
you had it), I mean, in point of your acceptation? Consider it, my beloved, that the honour
of God and your own happiness lies most in this, nay not only that, but your holiness too,
which you pretend to seek after, lies in it. Till you come to Christ, it is in vain to seek
it elsewhere.

Sermon III.

    1 John iii. 23.—“And this is his commandment,” &c.

There are different tempers of mind among men, some more smooth and pliable, others more refractory
and froward. Some may be persuaded by love, who cannot be constrained by fear. With some a
request will more prevail than a command. Others again are of a harsher disposition. Love and
condescension doth rather embolden them, and therefore they must be restrained with the bridle
of authority. It would seem that the Lord hath some regard to this in the administration of
the gospel. He accommodates himself to the diverse dispositions of men, and (if we may say
with respect to him which yet can be no disrespect, seeing he hath humbled himself lower) he
doth become all things to all men, that he may gain some. You see the gospel sometimes running
in the channel of love and kindness, sometimes in the channel of authority and majesty. God
sometimes stoopeth down to invite, and affectionately to beseech sinners to come unto his Son
for life. He hath prepared a marriage and banquet for us in Christ. He hath made all things
ready for the receiving, for the eating, and he sends forth his servants to entreat and invite
all such, who have no bread and clothing, who are poor and lame, to this wedding. He gives
an hearty invitation to all that stand at an infinite distance from God, and so are feeding
upon empty vanities without him, to come and enjoy the riches of his grace, which runs as a
river in Christ between these two golden banks, the pardon of sin, and the purification of
our soul from its pollution. You have a hearty invitation, Isa. lv. 1, 2, 3, “Ho, every one
that thirsteth, come to the waters.” But he comes yet lower to request and obtest poor sinners,
as if he could have advantage by it; he will not stand(428) to be a supplicant at any man’s
door, to beseech him to be reconciled to God, 2 Cor. v. 14, 19, 20. As if we could do him a
favour and benefit, he requests us most earnestly. Truly it is strange that this doth not melt
the heart, and make it fall down into the belief and obedience of the truth. Affection is the
most insinuating and prevailing thing with an ingenuous spirit, most of all when it is accompanied
with majesty in the person that hath it, and humility in the carriage and disposition. For
a great personage to descend out of love, to affectionate and humble requests and solicitations,
this cannot but have a mighty influence on any spirit that is not wild and savage. But because
the heart of man is desperately wicked, and hath lost that true ingenuity and nobleness of
spirit, and is now become stubborn and froward, as a wild ass, or as a swift dromedary traversing
her ways, therefore the Lord takes another way of dealing with men suitable to their froward
natures; he gives out his royal statute backed with majesty and authority; “This is his command,”
&c.—that when fair means could not prevail, other means more terrible might reduce lost rebellious
men. He hedges in our way with threatenings and promises annexed to the commandment, “He that
believeth has everlasting life, but he that believeth not is condemned already, and shall not
see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him.” He declares all men traitors if they come not
in to his Son, to be reconciled to God, before the decree of wrath pass forth.

Truly it is a wonder that there should be any need either of an invitation, or a request, or
a command, or a threatening; that we should need to be invited, or requested, or commanded,
or threatened to our own happiness. Might not a bare and simple offer, or proposal of Jesus
Christ, his nature, and offices, of the redemption and salvation purchased by him, suffice?
What needed more, but to declare unto us that we are lost and utterly undone by nature, and
that there is a refuge and remedy provided in Christ? Surely in any other thing of little importance,
we needed no entreaty. Were it not a good enough invitation to a man that is like to starve
for hunger, to cast meat freely before him; or to a man that is in hazard of drowning, to cast
a cord to him? We would seek no other persuasion to go and dig for a treasure of gold, than
to show us where it is hid. But strange is the rebellious and perverse disposition of man’s
heart. What an enmity is in it to the ways of God! What strange inclination to self-murder,
ever since man destroyed himself! We cannot express it unto you; but you may perceive it well
enough, both by the Lord’s frequent obtesting, and protesting to us in his word, and the experience
of the great barrenness of all such means. Whence is it, I pray you, that there should need
so many means to persuade you to that which is your own advantage, and to call you to shun
the ways of destruction? And whence is it that notwithstanding of all those invitations, entreaties,
commandments, promises and threatenings often sounding in your ears, yet the most part are
not reduced to obedience, nor reclaimed from the ways of death, and do not take hold of the
path of life. Truly it may plainly point out to you the desperate wickedness of the heart,
the stubbornness and rebelliousness of our disposition, and if once we could persuade you of
this we had gained a great point which few do seriously consider, and so do not abhor themselves.

The commandments mentioned in the text are these two, to believe in Christ, and to love our
brother. It is no wonder they are recommended with so much seriousness and earnestness; for
they are both the most comprehensive, and the most pleasing commandments. They are most comprehensive;
for it appears that all the commands spoken of in the preceding verse, are summed up in this
one precept, “And this is his commandment,” &c. And that they are most pleasant in God’s sight
is evident, for the true Christian being described from this, that he does these things that
are pleasing in God’s sight,—that he is one that studies to conform himself to his good pleasure,
this is subjoined, as the two most pleasing exercises of Christianity, “This is his commandment,”
that is, his pleasing commandment, that ye should believe in Christ, and love one another.

This command of believing in Jesus is comprehensive, because it takes in all precepts, and
that under a threefold consideration. It takes them all in as broken and transgressed by men,
as fulfilled by Christ, and also takes them all in as a rule of righteousness, according to
which the believer ought henceforth to walk.

The command of believing in Christ doth first of all import this—that a sinner should examine
himself according to the law of God,—that he should lay his whole life and course his heart
and ways, down before the perfect and holy commandments,—that he may stop his own mouth with
shame and silence, and find himself guilty before God. Many use to speak of humiliation preparatory
to believing, and the work of the law preparatory to the gospel. But truly I conceive it would
be more fitly expressed, if it were holden out thus, that it is one of the essential ingredients
in the bosom of believing, and one of the first articles of the gospel law, to charge all sinners
to acknowledge their sin and misery, to discern their own abounding iniquity, and danger of
perishing by it, how guilty they are before God, and how subject to his judgment, that so finding
themselves undone, they may have recourse to a Saviour.

Truly the Spirit’s work is to convince of sin, and then of righteousness, and when we are commanded
to believe, the first part of our believing is crediting and subscribing to the law, to the
justice and righteousness of God against us, and then the believing and acknowledging the gospel
is the end and purpose to that. “Ye believe in God, believe also in me.” This takes in completely
the two books of saving faith towards God as a Lawgiver and Judge, and faith towards our Lord
Jesus Christ as a Saviour and Redeemer; and it doth but beget misapprehensions in many, when
the one is looked upon as a condition without which we shall not be welcome to the other. Truly,
I think, both are proposed as essentials of saving faith; none of them in such a way as to
procure right and warrant to the other, but only in such an order as is suitable to any reasonable
nature to be wrought upon, and that is all. It is only required of you, upon that account,
because fleeing unto a Saviour for refuge is a rational and deliberate action, which necessarily
includes the sense of misery without him. But the sense of sin and misery is not urged as one
thing which ye should go about to prepare, and fit yourselves for more welcome at Christ’s
hand as commonly it is taken. Here it is easy to understand how the command of believing belongs
unto all who hear it, even to the vilest and grossest sinners, who are yet stout, hard hearted,
and far from righteousness, (Isa. xlvi. 12.) those who are spending their money for that which
is not bread, and their labour for that which satisfies not, and those whose hearts are uncircumcised,
and their lives profane. And yet the commandment of coming to the Son and believing on him
for life, is extended unto them all. All are invited, requested, commanded, and threatened
to this duty. There is no bar of exclusion set down in the gospel to hold out one, and let
in another; as many suppose these promises, that sound condition wise, to be limitations and
restrictions of the right and warrant to persons to believing. Indeed it is true all are not
exhorted at the first hand to assurance of God’s love, and an interest in Christ. There is
no question that none have right to this seal, but them who have believed and set to their
own seal to the character or truth of the word. But all are charged to believe in Christ that
is, out of a sense of their own lost estate, to embrace a Saviour for righteousness and strength.
Neither is there any fear that men can come too soon to Christ. We need not set down exclusions
or extractions, for if they be not sensible of sin and misery, they will certainly not come
to him at all. And therefore the command that enjoins them to believe on the Son, charges them
also to believe that they are lost without him. And if the most presumptuous sinners would
once give obedience to this commandment, really there would be no fear of presumption in coming
too soon unto Jesus. A sense of sin is not set as a porter, to keep out any who are willing
to come in, but rather to open the door, and constrain them that were unwilling to enter in,
so that if the least measure of that can do this, we are not to stand till we have more, but
to come to the Prince exalted to get remission of sins, and more true gospel sorrow which worketh
repentance unto salvation from dead works. You should not therefore understand any promises
in the scriptures so, as if there were any conditions set down to seclude any from coming,
who are willing to come. For they do but declare the nature and manner of what they are invited
to, that no man may mistake believing, and take his own empty presumptions or fancies, which
embolden him to sin more, for that true faith which is full of good fruits.

Now, in the text, the pious soul, having once subscribed to the guilt and curse of all the
commandments by believing the law, he looks also upon the Son, Jesus Christ, and finds the
law fulfilled, the curse removed, all satisfied in him. He finds all the commandments obeyed
in his person, all the wrath due for the breach of them pacified and quenched by his sufferings.
And he gives a cheerful and cordial approbation of all this. He receives Christ as the end
of the law for righteousness, which Christ made up by obedience and suffering to supply our
disobedience. We should stay or rest upon this, as that which pacifies the Father’s wrath to
the full. This is what gives the answer of a good conscience, and pacifies every penitent soul,
and secures his title to heaven. Now this presents God with a full atonement and obedience
to all the law, which he accepts from a believer as if it were his own. This is the large comprehension
of believing, it takes in its arms, as it were, in one bundle,(429) all the precepts and curses,
and devolves them over on Christ, puts them in an able hand, and then takes them all, as satisfied
and fulfilled by him, and holds them up in one bundle to the Father. And hence it proceeds,
in the third place, that believing on the Son takes in all again to be the rule of walking
and the mark to aim at. Finding such a perfect exoneration of bygones(430) in Christ and standing
in such favour with God, the soul is sweetly constrained to love and delight in the divine
laws. And truly this is the natural result of faith. I wish you may rightly observe this conjunction,
that this is inseparably knit with it, love to God and men, delight to do his will, to love
him, and live unto him. Do not deceive yourselves with vain words. If you find not the smartness
of the gospel, and the doctrine of grace laying this restraint upon the heart, ye are yet in
your sins. This is the reasoning of a believing soul. Shall I, who am dead unto sin, live any
longer therein? Shall I not delight in those commandments, when Christ hath delivered me from
the curse of the law? Though such a one fall, and come short, yet the pressure of the heart
is that way. But then attend unto the order, ye must first believe on the Son, and then love
him, and live unto him. Ye must first flee unto his righteousness, and then the righteousness
of the law shall be wrought in you. Therefore do not weary yourselves to no purpose. Do not
wrong your own souls by seeking to prevent this order, which was established for your joy and
salvation. Know that you must first meet with satisfaction in all the commands of Christ, before
obedience to any of them be accepted, and having met with that, know that the sincere endeavour
of thy soul, and the affectionate bensal(431) of thy heart to thy duty, is accepted. And if
ye find yourselves thereafter surcharged with guilt and unanswerable walking, yet ye know the
way is to begin at this again, to believe in the Son. This is the round you must walk, as long
as ye are in the body. When you are defiled, run into the fountain, and when you are washed,
study to keep your garments clean, but if defiled again, get your hearts washed from wickedness.
“These things,” says John, “I write to you that ye sin not,” who believe but if any sin, who
desire not to transgress, you have a propitiation for the sins of the whole world.

Now love is a very comprehensive command. It is the fulfilling of the whole law, Rom xiii.
10, Matth. xxii. 37, 38. It is indeed the true principle and pure fountain of our obedience
unto God and men. All fruits of the Spirit are moral virtues that grow out of the believer.
Whether pleasant unto God, or refreshing unto men, they are all virtually in this root of love,
all the streams are compacted in this fountain. Therefore he names one for all, viz. brotherly
love, which is the bond of perfection, Col. iii. 14. It is a bundle of many divine graces,
a company or society of many Christian virtues combined together. They are named bowels of
mercies, long suffering, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, forbearance, and forgiveness,
all which are tied to the believer’s girdle by charity, so that where love is, every good comes.
After it a troop of so many sweet endowments and ornaments also come, and where this is wanting,
(as truly it is the epidemical disease of the time), there are many sins abounding, for when
iniquity abounds “the love of many shall wax cold,” Matt. xxiv. 12. Oh! that is our temper
or rather our distempered nature,—love cold, and passion hot! When charity goes away, these
wild and savage beasts of darkness come forth, viz. bitter envying and strife, rigid censuring
and judging, unmercifulness and implacableness of spirit upon others’ failings and offences.
Self love, that keeps the throne, and all the rest are her attendants. For where self love
and pride is, there is contention, strife, envy, and every evil work, and all manner of confusion.
Thus they lead one another as in a chain of darkness, Prov. xiii. 10, James iii. 16. Think
not that love is a complimental word, and an idle motion of loving, it is a more real thing,
a more vital thing. It hath bowels of mercy, they move themselves when others are moved, and
they bring their neighbours misery into the inmost seat of the heart, and make the spirit a
solemn companion in misery. And it is also exercised in forbearing and forgiving. Charity is
not easily provoked, therefore it can forbear, is easily appeased, therefore it can forgive,
it is not soon displeased, or hard to be pleased, “forbearing and forgiving one another in
love.” Study then this grace more. Though men pretend conscience and scripture, yet the great
end of both is violated, that is charity, which mainly studies edification in truth and love.
And therefore it is a violent perversion of the commandment, or word, to overstretch every
point of conscience, or difference, so far as to the renting of Christian peace and unity.
What hath kindled all these names of bloody war, what hath increased all these fiery contentions
among us, but the want of this? As James says of the tongue, so I may speak of uncharitableness
and self love, they set on fire the course of nature, and they are set on fire of hell. The
true zeal and love of God, is like that elementary fire of which they speak, that in its own
place hath a temperate heat, and doth not burn or consume what is about it. But our zeal is
like the fire that is mixed with some gross matter, a preying, devouring, and consuming thing,
zeal down in the lower region of man’s heart, it is mixed with many gross corruptions, which
are as oil and fuel to it, and gives it an extreme intemperate destroying nature.

But then consider, that this commandment of love is our Lord and Saviour’s last testamentary
injunction to his disciples, John xiii. 34, 35. Every profession hath its own signs and rules,
every order their own symbol, every rank their own character. Here is the differential or peculiar
character and livery of a Christian, brotherly love,—“By this shall all men know that ye are
my disciples, if ye have love one to another,” &c. I remember a story of a dying father who
called his sons to him on his death bed, and having sent for a bundle of arrows, he tried them
one by one if they could break them, and when they had all tried this in vain, he caused loose
the bundle, and take the arrows one by one, and so they were easily broken, by which he gave
them to understand, that their stability and strength would consist in unity and concord, but,
if love and charity were broken, they were exposed to great hazard.(432) I think our Lord and
Saviour gives such a precept unto his disciples at his departure out of this world,—“A new
command I give unto you,” &c.  (John xiii. 34)—to show them that the perfection of the body,
into which they were all called as members, consisted in that bond of charity. And indeed love
is not only a bond or bundle of perfection in respect of graces, but in regard of the church
too. It is that bond or tie which knits all the members into one perfect body, Col. iii. 14,
15, 16. Without this bond, all must needs be rents, rags, and distractions.

Now I shall add but one word of the other, that these commands are pleasing in God’s sight.
And truly believing in the Son must be grateful to him, not only from the general nature of
obedience to his will, but also because this doth most honour both to the Father and to the
Son. The Father counts himself much honoured, when we honour the Son, and there is no honour
the creature can be in a capacity to give unto him like this, to cast all our hope, and hang
all our happiness upon him, (John v. 23, 24), to set to our seal that he is true and faithful,
(John iii. 33), which is done by believing. But most of all, this is pleasing in his sight
because the Father’s good pleasure concentres in the same point with the soul’s good pleasure,
that is, on the well beloved Son, Christ. Therefore faith must needs be well pleasing to the
Father, for what is faith else but the soul’s complacency and satisfaction in the Son. As the
Father is already well pleased with his death and sufferings, so he propones and holds him
out in the gospel, that you may be as well pleased with him as he is. This is believing indeed,
to be pleased with him as the Father is pleased, and this pleases the Father too. Oh that you
could understand this! The gospel is not brought unto you, that you may reconcile God, and
procure a change in his affection, but for this end, to beseech you to be reconciled unto God,
to take away all hostile affections out of your heart. And this is the business we have to
do, to persuade you that the Father holds him abundantly contented with his Son. “This is my
beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” And to move you to be as well contented with him as
he is, he says, “Hear him. I hear him for you, hear ye him for me. I hear him interceding for
you, hear ye him beseeching you.” Now this may take down all ground of jealousy concerning
our welcome and acceptance, it cannot but be an acceptable and pleasing thing to God, that
the affection and desire of the soul fall in and embosom itself with his good pleasure upon
Christ his Son.

And then, in the next place, it is well pleasing to God that ye love one another, not only
because he shall see his own image and likeness in your love, (for there is nothing in which
a Christian more eminently resembles his Father, or more evidently appears to be a child of
the Highest, than in free loving all, especially the household of faith, and forbearing and
forgiving one another, and so he cannot choose but like it well), but especially, because your
love concentres too, and meets upon the same objects with his love, these whom the Father so
loved, that he gave his only begotten Son for them, and the Son so loved them, that he gave
himself for them. If these be thy delight, and thou forbear them as the Father and the Son
hath done, that conspiracy of affections into one point cannot but be pleasing unto him. Now,
if these please him so well, whom should they not please?

Sermon IV.

    James iii. 14.—“But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your
    hearts, glory not,” &c.

It is a common evil of those who hear the gospel, that they are not delivered up to the mould
and frame of religion that is holden out in it, but rather bring religion into a mould of their
own invention. Every thing would have its own due place with us, if we were cast in the primitive
mould of godliness, but when we cast godliness in a mould of our own apprehension, they cannot
choose but a miserable confusion and disorder will follow in the duties of religion. For according
as our fancy and inclination impose a necessity upon things, so we do pursue them, and not
according to the real weight that is in them. I find the scripture laying most weight upon
the most common things, placing most religion in the most obvious and known things, and for
other things more remote from common capacity, I find them set far below, in the point of worth
and moment, even these things that seem least. But I find that order quite perverted in the
course of Christians. Some particular points that are not so obvious to every understanding,
are put in the first place, and made the distinguished character of a Christian, and others
again, in which true and undefiled religion doth more consist, are despised and set in a low
place, because of their ceremonies. I think this apostle hath observed this confusion, and
hath applied himself to remove it, by correcting the misapprehensions of Christians, and reducing
their thoughts and ways to the frame of true Christianity. Even as Christ dealt with the Pharisees,
who brought in such a confusion in religion, by imposing a necessity upon ceremonies, and an
indifferency upon the very substance itself, truly, I think, it may be said unto us, you tithe
mint, anise, and cummin, and pass over judgment and the love of God, these things ye ought
to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Thus by your traditions and opinions of things
so remote from the kingdom of God, ye have made the unquestionable commandments of God of none
effect, Matth. xv. 6. You think possibly, if this apostle was coming out to preach unto you
this day, that he would certainly resolve you in many controverted points, and would bring
some further light to the debates of the time. But truly I think if he knew the temper of our
spirits, he would preach over this sermon to us again, “My brethren, be not many masters,”
&c. I suppose he would bring that old primitive light of pure and undefiled religion, the splendour
of which our present ways and courses could not endure, but would be constrained to hide themselves
in darkness. What would you think of such a sermon as this, “If any man among you seem to be
religious, and bridleth not his tongue, this man’s religion is vain?” Jam. i. 26. “If any man
offend not in word, the same is a perfect man,” Jam. iii. 2. This is accounted a common and
trivial purpose. But believe it, sirs, the Christian practice of the most common things, hath
more religion in it than the knowledge of the profoundest things, and till you learn to do
what you know, it is a mockery to study to know further what to do. There is a strange stirring
of mind after more light and knowledge in some particulars of the time. But I would fain know,
if there be as much ardour and endeavour to practise that which we have already. To him that
hath shall be given, to him that makes use of his knowledge for the honour of God, and the
good of mankind, and their edification, more shall be given, but from him that hath not, shall
be taken away even that which he hath, and yet really and cordially hath not, because he hath
no use of it. Therefore he may by inquiry find more darkness, because his old light shall rather
be put out. Do you not all know that ye should bridle your tongues, that it is a great point
of that Christian victory over the world to tame and danton(433) that undantoned wild beast,
to quench that fire brand of hell? Do ye not all know that we should be swift to hear, slow
to speak, and slow to wrath? And as the apostle Paul speaks on another subject, “Doth not even
nature itself teach you when you have but one tongue, and two ears, that ye should hear much,
and speak little?” Are not our ears open, and our tongue enclosed and shut up, to teach us
to be more ready to hear than to speak? Now I say, till Christians learn to practise these
things that are without all controversy, you may make it your account never to want controversy,
and never to get clearness. For to what purpose should more light be revealed, when that which
is revealed is to no purpose?

But it is in vain to think to reform the tongue, till you have the heart first reformed. They
say the belly hath no ears. Truly the tongue is all tongue, and has no ears to take an admonition
or instruction. We must, then, with the apostle, retire into the heart, and abate from the
abundance of the superfluity and naughtiness that is within; and therefore our apostle descends
to the cure of pride, envy and strife in the heart, that are fountains of all that pestiferous
flood which flows out of every man’s mouth. “Is there any wise man among you?” &c. And indeed
this is the orderly proceeding both of nature and grace. Nature begins within to probe among
the superfluous and noisome humours which abound in the body, and desolate the members, and
doth not think it sufficient to apply external plasters. Grace must begin within too, to purge
the heart, for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks, the eye looks, and the feet
walk. If there be no destroyer in the members or outward man, it is not the preserving of rules
and cautions that will suffice to restrain, to abate, or to cure, but the disease must be ripped
up to the bottom, the cause found within, as our apostle doth here. Hence, says he, proceed
all these feverish distempers among you, your hot and passionate words, your evil speakings
and reproachings, your contentions and wars about matters either civil or religious. Whence
are all these? From a vain persuasion of wisdom, from a foolish imagination of some excellency
in yourselves, and some inward affection to be accounted something of among men. “Who is a
wise man,” &c. You would be accounted wise, and so you do account yourselves, and this begets
strife and envy in the heart, and predisposeth the mind to strife and contention with others.
And therefore he takes the mask off, by deciphering the very nature of such a wisdom; he embowels
that pretended wisdom in religion and gives it its own name, and because things are best known,
and most livelily comprehended in their opposition and comparison with one another, he shows
wherein true wisdom and religion consist, and sets the one against the other, that the deformity
of the one and the beauty of the other may appear. We shall then speak a word of this that
is supposed, and then of that which is expressed, the descriptions of true wisdom, and pretended
wisdom. I conceive this interrogation, “Is there a wise man among you?” imports chiefly these
two one is,—that it is the natural disease of all men to esteem themselves something, and desire
to be esteemed such by others; another is,—that the misapprehension of that wherein true wisdom
and excellency doth especially consist, is the ground of many miscarriages in the seeking or
venting of that.

It was an ancient remark, that “vain man would be wise, though he be born like a wild ass’s
colt.” Empty man is wise in his own eyes, and would be so in other men’s too. He hath no reality
nor solidity, but is like these light things which the wind carries away, or the waters bear
above, and tosses hither and thither, yet he apprehends some solid and real worth in himself,
and would impose that apprehension upon others. And truly this is a drunkenness of mind, which
makes a man light and vain, to stagger to and fro. It is a giddiness of spirit, that makes
him inconstant and reeling, but insensible of it. Though he be born as stupid and void of any
real wisdom and excellency, as a wild ass’s colt, yet he hath this madness and folly superadded
to all that natural stupidity, that he seems to be wise and understanding, and truly it was
a more ancient disease than Job’s days. We may trace the steps of its antiquity to be from
the very beginning, and there we shall find the true original of it. What was it, I pray you,
did cast the angels out of heaven, down to the lowest hell, to be reserved in chains for everlasting
darkness? I do not conceive what their natures so abstracted from all sensual lusts could be
capable of, but this spiritual darkness and madness of self conceit, and an ambitious aspiring
after more wisdom, whence did flow that malcontent and envious humour, in maligning the happiness
of man. And this was the poison that Satan, the chief of these angels, did drop into man’s
nature, by temptations and suggestions of an imaginary wisdom and happiness, “You shall be
as gods knowing good and evil.” And truly this poison is so strong and pestilent, that having
once entered into the body, it spreads through all the members, it infects all the posterity
that were in Adam’s loins. Being once distilled into the lump, it diffuses itself through the
whole, such a strange contagion is it. That wretched aim at a higher wisdom, hath thrown us
all down into this brutish and stupid condition, to be like wild asses colts. Yet this false
and fond imagination of wisdom and excellence remains within us, which is so much the nearer
madness, that now there is no apparent ground left for such a fairly.(434) And if one of a
cubit’s height should imagine himself as tall as a mountain, and accordingly labour to stretch
out himself, we would seek no other sign of madness. Truly this malignant and poisonable humour
is so subtile that it hath insinuated itself into all the parts and powers of the soul, and
steals in without observation into all our thoughts, purposes, affections, ways, and courses.
It is of so infectious and pestiferous a nature, that it defiles all that is in the man, and
all that comes out of the man.

The apostle speaks of covetousness, that it “is the root of all evil.” Truly I think that comprehends
many inordinate affections in it. Now, both self love and earth love arise from some false
imagination of that which is not. Whether it be an imagination of some excellency in ourselves,
or some worth in these worldly and earthly things, man first makes a god of it, and then worships
it. Therefore covetousness is called idolatry, self idolatry and earth idolatry. We first attribute
some divinity to ourselves like these people (Isa. xliv. 17) to their idols. We then fall down
and worship ourselves, but we do not consider in our heart, that we are but dust. And then
we ascribe some divinity to the perishing things of the world, and then worship them, but do
not consider that they are earthly and perishing vanities. Thus we feed upon ashes, a deceived
heart hath turned us aside, and we cannot deliver our own souls, by discovering the lie that
is in our right hand. We feed partly on the element of the air, by seeking that of others that
we have of ourselves, and partly upon the element of the earth, by the love of this world.
And these two degenerated evils, are the root of all evils, self estimation, and creature affection.

I think this apostle in this one word “Is there any wise man among you, or any endowed with
knowledge” and that word, “glory not,” strikes at the root of all the forementioned and aftermentioned
evils. From whence I say doth that promptitude and bensal(435) to speak, that slowness and
difficulty to hear, that readiness and inclination to pride, (reproved, James i. 19, 20) proceed?
Is it not from an overweening conceit of our own wisdom, that we are so swift to speak, and
so slow to hear, and that we would teach others and yet be taught of none? We are so much in
love with our own apprehensions, that we imagine they shall find as much esteem and affection
among men, and so being like barrels full of liquor, in our own conceit, we are like to burst
if we vent not, and are as incapable of taking from others as of retaining what is within.
The word of God was a fire in Jeremiah’s heart that would have consumed him, if he had not
given it vent. Truly self love is a fire that must vent one way or other, or it would burn
up all within by displeasure, and then it is the over apprehension of some excellency in ourselves,
which so disposes us to anger, that makes us combustible matter, like the spirit of gunpowder,
for the least spark of injury or offence, will set all in a flame. It is certainly the fond
imagination of some great worth in ourselves, that is the very immediate predisposition to
the apprehension of an injury. Humility cannot be affronted, it is hard to persuade of an injury.
Why? Because there is no excellency to be hurt or wronged. Therefore Christ conjoins these,
“meek and lowly in heart,” (Matth. xi. 29,) lays poverty of spirit down as the foundation of
meekness, Matth. v. 3-5. Whence is it that we accept of men’s persons by judging according
to the outward appearance, and are so ready to displease our brethren, especially these who
are inferior to us in body, or mind, or estate? Is it not from this root, self admiration?
This makes us elevate ourselves above others, and to intrude ourselves among these who are
chiefest in account. Whence doth our unmercifulness and rigidity towards other men proceed,
but from this fountain, that we allow so much licence and indulgence to ourselves, that we
can have none to spare for others, and that we do not consider that we ourselves stand in need
of more mercy from God, and cannot endure a mixture of judgment in it? Therefore we have judgment
to others without mercy, James ii. 13. And is not this self pleasing humour the fountain of
that contentious plea after the pre-eminence, and censorious liberty of judging others, and
usurping authority over them? James iii. 1, “My brethren, be not ye many masters.” Truly this
is the root of all contentions and strifes. It is this which rents all human and Christian
society. This looses all the pins of concord and unity. This sets all by the ears, and makes
all the wheels reel through other. The conceit of some worth beyond others, and the imagination
of some pre-eminence over them, even in the best creatures—he best, and he best, that is the
plea, he greatest, and he greatest, that is the controversy. As bladders puffed up with wind,
they cannot be kept in little room, but every one presses another, but if the wind were out,
they would compact in less room, and comply better together. The apostle implies this, when
he puts every man in mind of his own failing, “in many things we offend all,” and if this were
considered, it would abate our security, and cool our heat and fervour, and moderate our rigour
towards others. There would not be such strife about places of power and trust, if we were
not swelled in our own apprehensions to some eminency. And is not this the very fountain which
sends out all these bitter streams of the tongue, these evil speakings one of another, these
sharp and immoderate censures of our neighbours? Truly this is it, every man accounts himself
to be wiser and more religious than his brother, to have more knowledge, and so he cannot endure
any difference in opinion, to have more holiness, and so he cannot bear any infirmity in practice.
But the way to help this, would be to humble ourselves before God, James iv. 10. Lowliness
and meekness are the ground stones of these Christian virtues which preserve Christian society,
Eph. iv. 2, 3. And is not this, I pray you, the foundation of wars, strifes, contentions, and
jealousies? “From whence come wars and fightings among you?” Is it not from these imperious
lusts which war in our members? Only from pride cometh contention, Prov. xiii. 10. The head
spring of all envy, also issues out from pride, and this divides, in many streams and waters,
all our courses and ways, with putrified and pestilent corruptions. While every man hath this
opinion of himself, all is done in strife, no condescendence, no submission one to another,
Phil. ii. 3. While all make themselves the centre, it cannot otherwise happen, but designs,
courses, thoughts, and ways, must interfere and jar among themselves. Self-seeking puts all
by the ears, as you see children among themselves, if an apple be cast to them. Any bait or
advantage of the times yokes them in that childish contention, who shall have it? All come,
strive, and fight about it, and it is but a few can have it, and these that get it cannot keep
it long. Others will catch it from them. Now what vain things are these, which can neither
be gotten, nor kept, but by strife? Oh that we could seek better things, which may be both
sought and kept, without emulation or strife!

Now the other thing is, that the misapprehension of that wherein true excellence consists is
the ground of many evils. “Who is a wise man?” &c. You all affect the title, and ye seek the
thing, as ye suppose. But alas! ye mistake that wherein it consists. Truly there is in all
men (ever since we tasted of the tree of knowledge of good and evil) a strange innate desire
of knowledge, and affectation of wisdom, and desire of excellence. But since the first endeavour
in paradise succeeded ill, there hath nothing gone well since. We weary ourselves to catch
vanities, shadows, and lies. “How long, O ye sons of men, will ye love vanity, and follow after
lies?” That divinely taught prophet could not but pity the children of men. And as Paul speaks
to the Athenians of another purpose, “Him whom ye ignorantly worship, we show unto you,” so
he declares unto men that which they ignorantly and vainly seek elsewhere. This I assure you
consists in this, that ye show out of a good conversation your works with meekness and wisdom.

All our mischief proceeds from this, that we misapprehend and mistake that which we would gladly
have. And so once being in the wrong way, that cannot lead to our purposed end, the faster
we run, the farther we go from it. The more we move in affection and diligence, the less we
indeed promove in reality to the attaining what we seek. How greatly have we fallen! I might
instance this in many things, but I shall be content with these two. There is a desire in all
men after happiness, but there is a fundamental error in the imagination supposing it to consist
in the enjoyment of temporal pleasure, honour, advantage, or the satisfaction of our own natural
inclinations. Now this leads all mankind to a pursuit after these things. But how base a scent
is it? And how vain a pursuit is it? For the faster they move in that way, the further they
are from all solid and true contentment. Again, in all godly men, there is something of this
rectified, and they suppose religion to be the only true wisdom, and this wisdom the only true
happiness. But oftentimes there are even mistakes in that too. As many of the world call sweet
bitter, and bitter sweet, because of the vitiated and corrupted palate; so the godly, being
in some measure distempered, call that which is not so sweet sweetest, and that which is not
so bitter, bitterest. They change the value of things, and misplace them out of that order
in which God hath set them. One great mistake is this. We impose a great deal of weight and
moment upon these things in religion, which are but the hay and stubble, or pins in the building,
and we esteem less that wherein the foundation and substance of true religion consists. We
have an over-apprehension of a profession, and an undervaluing thought of practice. We overstretch
some points of knowledge, and truth of the least value;(436) and have less value for the fundamental
statutes of the gospel, faith and love, mercy and judgment. This our Saviour reproved in the
Pharisees. “I will have mercy (says God) and not sacrifice.” A ceremony of opinion in some
particulars of the time hath more necessity with us than the practice of true godliness: and
this is the root of the most part of these vain janglings, strifes of words, and perverse disputings
of men, whereof cometh envy, strife, malice, evil surmisings, and no edification in faith and
love, which were so frequent in the primitive times, and so often hammered down by Paul. This
is it, a misapprehension of the value of them. Fancy imposes a worth and necessity upon them.
But Paul doth always oppose unto them true godliness (1 Tim. vi. 3, chap. iv. 7), and prescribes
that as the cure, that true godliness in practice of what we know, and charity towards our
brethren, may be bigger in our apprehension, and higher in our affection. Would ye then know,
my brethren, wherein true religion consists, and wherein genuine Christianity stands? It is
in showing out of a good conversation, our works with meekness and wisdom. I reduce it to these
two words, in joining practice to knowledge, and meekness to both; and this makes our religion
to shine before men, and glorify our heavenly Father.

Wherein then do ye think this mystery of wisdom which the gospel reveals consists? Not in the
profound and abstracted speculations of God, or the secrets of nature,—a work about which learned
men have racked their inventions, and beaten their brains to no other purpose, than the discovery
of the greatness of man’s ignorance. It doth not consist in the sounding of the depths of divinity,
and loosing all these perplexing knots of questions, and doubts, which are moved upon the scripture,
in all which men really bewray their own ignorance and misery. “The world by wisdom knew not
God.” Living right is the first point of true wisdom. It costs many men great expenses to learn
to know their own folly, to become fools, that they may become wise, 1 Cor. iii. 18. Man became
a fool by seeking to become wiser than God made him; and that is all the result of our endeavours
after wisdom since, Rom. i. 22. But here is the great instruction of Christianity, to bring
man down low from the height of presumption and self-estimation, and make him see himself just
as he is by nature, a fool, and a wild ass’s colt. Nebuchadnezzar had much ado to learn this
lesson. It cost him some years brutality to learn to know his brutishness, and when that was
known his understanding returned to him.

Now this is the first and hardest point of wisdom. When it is once learned and imprinted on
the heart, O what a docility is in the mind to more! What readiness to receive what follows!
It makes a man a weaned child, a little simple child, tractable and flexible as Christ would
have all his disciples. A man thus emptied and vacuated of self-conceit, these lines of natural
pride being blotted out, the soul is as a tabula rasa, “an unwritten table,” to receive any
impression of the law of God that he pleases to put on it; and then his words are all “plain
to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge,” Prov. viii. 9. Then I say
it is not difficult to understand and to prove what is the good and acceptable will of God,
Rom. xii. 2; Eph. v. 10-17. It is not up unto heaven, that thou shouldest say, who shall ascend
to bring it down? Neither is it far down in the depth, that thou shouldest say, who shall descend
and bring it up from hence? But it is near thee, “in thy mouth, and in thy heart,” &c. Rom.
x. 6, 7, 8. There is the plain sign of Christian wisdom, the abridgment of all that is taught
in the school of Christ. Then he hath the degree of glory and immortality conferred upon him.
He is a candidate of immortality and felicity, Tit. ii. 12, 13.

We are in the Christian school like many scholars who labour to know so many things, that indeed
they know nothing well; as the stomach that devours much meat, but digests little, and turns
it not into food and aliment, incorporates it not into the body. We catch at many great points
of truth, and we really drink in none of them; we let none sink into the heart, and turn into
affection and practice. This is the grand disease of the time, a study to know many things,
and no study to love what we know, or practise any thing. The Christian world is all in a flame,
and the church is rent asunder by the eager pursuit and prosecution of some points of truth,
and this is the clamour of all men, who will show us our light? Who will discover some new
thing unto us? But in the mean time we do not prove the unquestionable acceptable will of our
God; like a fastidious squeamish stomach, that loathes what it receives, and always longs for
something else. Thus the evil is vented here. Who is a wise man, do ye think? Not he who knows
many things, who hath still a will to controversy, who hath attained some further light than
others of them; not he, brethren, but he that shows out of a good conversation, his works with
meekness of wisdom, he that proves and practiseth as well as knows, the good will of God. “For
hereby do we know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him,
and keeps not his commands, is a liar, and the truth is not in him,” 1 John ii. 3, 4. This
proves that knowledge is not in the head, but in the heart, and that it is not captivated and
shut up in the mind, but that a man is delivered up as a captive to the truth, Rom. vi. 16.

All men complain of the want of light and knowledge, though perhaps none think they have much.
But is the will of God so dark and intricate? Is it so hard to understand? Truly it is plain,
“He hath showed thee what is good,” he hath showed thee what to do; but that thou neglectest
to do, and therefore men know not what to do further. Do ye not all know that ye should walk
soberly, righteously, and piously, and humble yourselves to walk with God, and in lowliness
of mind each should esteem another better than himself? Ye should forbear and forgive one another,
as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven you. Ye should not seek great things for yourselves,
especially when God is plucking up what he hath planted, and casting down what was built. Ye
should mind your country above more, and live as sojourners here. Are not these words of wisdom
all plain and obvious to the meanest capacity?  Now, my beloved, with what face can ye seek
more knowledge of God, or inquire for more light into his mind, when you do not prove that
known and perfect will of his? When you do not occupy your present talent, why do ye seek more?
“To him that hath shall be given.” Truly it is the man that fears and obeys as far as is revealed,
to whom God shows his secret, and teaches the way he should choose, Psal. xxv. 12. I know not
a readier way to be resolved in doubtful things, than to study obedience in these things that
are beyond all doubt. To walk in the light received, is the highway to more light. But what
hope is there of any more light from the Lord, when our ways and courses, and dispositions
and practices, even in our endeavours after more knowledge, cannot endure the light of that
shining will of God, that is already revealed?  In ordering our conversation, we catch at the
shadow of our points of truth, and lose the substance that was in our hands, lowliness, meekness,
charity, long suffering, sobriety of mind and actions, and heavenly mindedness.  All these
substantial we let go, that we may get hold of some empty unedifying notions.  We put out our
candle that is already enlightened, that is, the knowledge of good conversation that we may
seek more light, and that is the way to find darkness and delusion. Because they received not
the truth in love, that they might be saved, God gave them up to strong delusions and the belief
of lies, 2 Thess. ii. 10, 11.  There is the ground of delusions, truth received, but not loved
or obeyed, many things known, but the stamp and seal not impressed on the heart we express
in the conversation.  Therefore God is provoked to put out that useless light of truth and
deliver that man captive to delusions, who would not deliver his soul a captive to truth. 
And is not this righteousness, that he who detained the known truth in unrighteousness of affection
and conversation, be himself detained and incarcerated by strong delusions of mind and imagination?

As a good conversation and good works should be joined to knowledge, and meekness must be the
ornament of both, this meekness of wisdom is the great lesson that the wisdom of the Father
came down to teach man.  “Learn of me, for I am meek.”  And truly the meekness of that substantial
wisdom of God Jesus Christ, is the exact pattern and copy, and the most powerful motive and
constraint to this kindness of Christian wisdom.  Our Saviour did not cry nor lift up his voice
in the streets.  He made little noise, nor cried with pomp, he was not rigorous, nor rigid
upon sinners.  Though he was oppressed and afflicted yet he opened not his mouth, being reviled
he reviled not again, being cursed, he blessed.  Though he could have legions of angels at
his command, yet he would show rather an example of patience and meekness to his followers,
than overcome his enemies.  If many of us, who pretend to be his disciples, had the winds,
rains, heavens, and elements at our commandment, I fear we would have burned up the world.
We would presently have called for fire from heaven, to devour all whom we conceived enemies
to him, or ourselves, and that under the notion of zeal.  Zeal it is indeed, but such as is
spoken of in the next verse. “If ye have bitter envying (the word is bitter zeal) in your hearts,
glory not, nor lie against the truth.”  Christ’s zeal was sweet zeal. It might well consume
or eat him up within, but it did not devour others without. “The zeal of thy house (says he)
hath eaten me up.”  But our zeal is like the Babylonian furnace, that burnt and consumed these
that went to throw the pious children into it.  At the first approaching it gets without the
chimney, and devours all around it.  If the meekness or gentleness of a person who received
the greatest injuries that ever any received, and to whom the greatest indignities were done,
and who endured the greatest contradiction of sinners, if his calm composed temper do not soften
our spirits, mitigate our sharpness, and allay our bitterness, I know not what can do it. I
do not think but if any man considered how much long suffering God exercises towards him, how
gentle and patient he is, after so many provocations, how Jesus Christ doth still forgive infinite
numbers of infinite wrongs done to his grace, how slow he is to wrath, and easy to be entreated,
surely such a man would abate much of his severity towards others, he would pursue peace with
all men, and esteem little of wrongs done unto him, and not think them worthy of remembrance,
he would not be easily provoked, but he would be easily pacified.  In a word, he could not
but exercise something of that gentleness and meekness in forbearing and forgiving, as Christ
also forgave him and truly there is no ornament of a man like that of a meek and quiet spirit,
1 Pet. iii. 4.  It is both comely and precious, it is of great price in God’s sight.  It is
a spirit all composed and settled, all peace and harmony within.  It is like the heavens in
a clear day, all serene and beautiful, whereas an unmeek spirit is for the most part like the
troubled sea, tossed with tempests, winds, and dashed with rains, even at the best, it is but
troubled with itself.  When there is no external provocation, it hath an inward unrest in its
bosom, and casts out mire and dirt.  Meekness is so beseeming every man, that it is even humanity
itself.  It is the very nature of a man restored, and these brutish, wild and savage dispositions
put off. Meekness is a man in the true likeness of God. But passion, and the evils which accompany
it, is a man metamorphosed and transformed into the nature of a beast, and that of a wild beast
too. It hath been always reckoned that anger is nothing different from madness, but in the
continuance of it. It is a short madness. But what is wanting in the continuance is made up
in the frequency. When spirits are inclined to it, there is a habitual fury and madness in
such spirits. It is no wonder then, these are conjoined, meekness and wisdom, for truly they
are inseparable. Meekness dwells in the bosom of wisdom. It is nothing else but wisdom, reason,
and religion ruling all within, and composing all the distempered lusts and affections, but
anger rests in the bosoms of fools, it cannot get rest but in a fool’s bosom, for where it
enters, wisdom and reason must go out, Eccles. vii. 9. “A fool’s wrath is presently known,”
Prov. xii. 16. For if there were so much true and solid wisdom as to examine the matter first,
and to consider before we suffer ourselves to be provoked, we would certainly quench anger
in the very first smoking of an apprehension of a wrong. We would immediately cast it out,
for there is nothing so much blinds and dimmeth the eye of our understanding, and when this
gross vapour rises out of the dunghill of our lusts, nothing so much uncovers our shame and
nakedness. “A prudent man covereth shame,” but hastiness and bitterness takes the garment off
our infirmity, and exposes us to mockery and contempt, Prov. xii. 16. There is not a greater
evidence of a strong solid spirit, than this, to be able to govern this unruly passion, whereas
it is taken far otherwise. Meekness is construed by some to be simplicity and weakness, and
many imagine some greatness and height of spirit in the hotter natures, but truly it is far
otherwise. “For he that is slow to anger, is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his
own spirit, than he that takes a city.” Wrath is an impotency and weakness. It hath no strength
in it, but such as ye would find in madmen. But this is true magnanimity, to overcome thyself,
and “overcome evil with good.”

As there is nothing which is a greater evidence of wisdom, so there is nothing a better help
to true wisdom than this. For a meek spirit is like a clear running fountain, that ye see the
bottom of, but a passionate spirit is like a troubled fountain, the shadow of truth cannot
be seen in it. A glass that is pure and cleanly, renders the image lively, but if it be besmeared
with dust, you can see nothing, so is a composed mild spirit apt to discern the truth without
prejudice. And indeed it is the meek whom God engages to teach his ways, Psal. xxv. 8, 9. He
that receives with meekness the ingrafted word, is in the readiest capacity to receive more.
When the superfluity of naughtiness is cast out, and all the faculties of the soul composed
to quietness and calmness, then his voice will best be heard, and himself readiest to receive
it. Our affection keeps a continual hurry within the tumultuous noise of our disordered lusts,
that are always raging and controlling the voice of God, so that we cannot hear his teaching.
A passionate temper of spirit is very indocile. There are so many loud sounds of prejudices
within, that the truth cannot be heard. But a meek spirit hath all quietness and silence, as
Cornelius and his house had waiting for the mind of the Lord. And such he delights to converse
with most, and reveal most unto, for it gets readiest entertainment. Let me tell you, beloved
in the Lord, you disoblige the Lord (if I may speak so) and hinder him to reveal any more of
his mind to you, ye disengage him to teach you his way in those dark and untrodden paths, because
ye do not study this meekness in the wisdom and knowledge ye have already, nor his meekness
and moderation in seeking further knowledge. And it is no wonder he be provoked by it, to choose
your delusions, because it is certainly these graces of meekness, charity, patience, gentleness,
long suffering, humbleness of mind, and such like, which go always in a chain together. These
are an ornament of grace upon the head, and a crown of glory, and that chain about the neck,
Solomon mentions, Prov. iv. 9. Now when you cast off your crown of glory, your noblest ornament,
your chain of dignity, should he give such precious pearls to swine? When you trample under
foot the greater commandments of mercy, judgment, sobriety, humility, meekness, and charity,
should he reveal lesser commandments, or discover his will in lesser matters? Consider the
manner of expression here, “Let him show forth out of a good conversation,” &c. Truly it is
good works with meekness of wisdom, it is a good conversation, with a true profession, that
shows forth a Christian, and shows him most before men. “Let your light (says Christ) so shine
before men.” What is the shining beauty of Christian light? It is the works of piety, charity,
equity, and sobriety. These glorify the Father, and beautify all his children. You may easily
conceive what that is, that chiefly commends religion to the ignorant world. Is it not the
meekness of Christian wisdom? Is it not this harmless simplicity, that divine-like candour,
that shines in every true Christian? Will rigidity, severity, passion, blood, violence, persecution,
and such like, ever conciliate the hearts of men? Have such persons any beauty, any light in
them, except a scorching consuming light? The light of a good Christian is like the light of
the sun, of a sweet, gentle, and refreshing nature, conveying influence to all, doing good
to the household of faith. Peter will tell you what that is, that will most engage the hearts
of the world, to a reverend esteem of true religion, 1 Pet. ii. 12. It is a conversation honest,
and void of offence, giving to every one their own due, honouring all men, loving the brotherhood,
not using our liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, and not overstretching it, to the loosing
of other natural or civil bands. When men see Christianity making us do that really and cheerfully,
which even nature itself teacheth all to do that makes the light of it shining and beautiful.
Are not these higher mysteries of faith, than some conceive? It is not other points of truth
and profession, that are either above natural reason, or seem something opposite to it, that
can engage natural beholders, and far less the prosecution of a temporal worldly interest of
the people of God, to the destruction of all opposite to it, at least to the diminishing of
all other men’s gain and advantage, the engrossing of all earthly privileges into the hands
of saints. That is such a thing that never entered into the heart of the shining lights of
the primitive times. O how doth the stream of their exhortations run cross to this notion!
I am sure there is nothing in its own nature, such a stumbling block to the world or represents
religion so odious and abominable to other men, as when it stands in the way, and intercepts
all these natural immunities or privileges of life, or estate. This makes natural men to hate
it, even at a distance, and become irreconcilable enemies unto it. Since it will not let them
live by it, they are engaged not to let it live by them. I wish indeed all the places of power
and trust in every nation, were in the hands of godly men, not so much for the interest of
the godly as for the public interest, because men fearing God, and hating covetousness, can
only rule justly and comfortably. But to monopolize all power and trust to such a particular
judgment and way (as it is now given out) is truly, I think, inhuman and unchristian. These
deserve not power and trust who would seek it, and engross it wholly to themselves.(438) But
there is another thing which savours greatly of the flesh, at least of that spirit which Christ
reproved in his disciples, to take away men’s lives, liberty, and livelihood given by their
Creator, upon every foot of opposition and enmity to our way and interest. Is this to love
our enemies, blessing them that curse us, or praying for them that despitefully use us, or
persecute us? Let us remember we are Christians, and this is the rule of Christianity, that
stops even the mouth of adversaries. But some still find an evasion for this. They will say
they are God’s enemies, and not my particular enemies only. But I pray you were not the enemies
of Christians in these days more properly enemies to Christ than now? For they had nothing
then to persecute them for, but the very profession of that name. And truly I confess in our
days we make more particular enemies, by particular injuries and disobligements, than either
our profession or practice of religion make. But to put it out of all doubt, we learn that
they are persecutors, and do all manner of evil against us, for Christ’s name sake. I have
said this because I know nothing that more darkeneth and obscures religion nor such worldly
and temporal interests, so eagerly pursued, and nothing makes it more to shine among men, than
a good conversation with meekness of wisdom.

Sermon V.

    James iii. 14.—“But if ye have bitter envying,” &c.

The cunning of Satan, and the deceitfulness of our own hearts, are such that when a grosser
temptation will not prevail with conscience in some measure enlightened, then they transform
themselves into angels of light, and deal more subtilely with us. And there is no greater subtilty
of Satan, nor no stronger self deceit, than this, to palliate and cover vices with the shadow
of virtue, and to present corruptions under the similitude of graces. It is common unto all
temptations to sin, to have a hook under their bait, to be masked over with some pleasure or
advantage or credit. But when such earthly and carnal pretences do not insinuate strongly unto
a believing heart that has discovered the vanity of all that which is in the world, so dare
not venture upon sin for all the pleasures which attend it, then he winds about and tarries
and changes his likeness unto light, conscience, and duty, presents many works of darkness
and corruption under the notion of duty and honesty, according as he finds the temper of a
man’s spirit to be. I can give no instance more pregnant, and even common, than this which
is given here, viz., contentions and strivings among brethren, bitter envying, maligning and
censuring one another, which are very manifest works of the flesh, and works of darkness, fitter
for the night than the day, and for the time of ignorance, nor the time after the clear light
hath shined. Now if Satan were about to persuade a church or a Christian of this, how do ye
think he would go about it? Would he present some carnal advantage to be gained by it, some
more profit or preferment from it? May be that might be very taking with some more unconscientious
self seeking spirits, and I fear it be too much taken with many. But sure it will not relish
with every man. It will not entice him that hath the fear of God, and the love of Jesus stirring
within him. Therefore he must seek about, and find some false prophet, that may come out in
the name of the Lord, and disguise himself, and by such means he will do it. Let a point of
truth or conscience come in debate, let a notion of religion, and one far off from an interest
in Christ be in the business, and then he can take advantage to make a man overreach himself
in it. He will present the truth as a thing of so great weight and consequence, that he must
contend for it, and empty all his wit and power and parts for it. This good intention being
established, he raises up men’s passions under a notion of zeal, and these be promoved under
that pretence for such an end. Whatsoever mean may be sought, profitable for that end, all
is chosen and followed without discretion or knowledge of what is good or evil. It is apprehended
that the good principle of conscience, of duty, and the good intention, may justify all. And
by that means he hath persuaded the churches of Christ, and the Christian world, unto more
rigidity, severity, cruelty, strife, contention, blood, violence, and such works of darkness,
than readily have been found in the times of ignorance. Is Christendom a field of blood, rather
than any other part of the world? Truly this is the reproach of Christianity. By this, God’s
name is daily blasphemed. Here our apostle sets himself to unmask this angel of light, and
to decipher him in his own proper nature and notion. He takes off the vizard of religion and
wisdom, and lets you see the very image of hell under it. “But if ye have bitter envying and
strife, glory not.” Ye glory as if ye had the truth, you glory in your zeal for it, you boast
that ye are the wise men, the religious men, and so you take liberty upon the account of envy,
to malign, despise, and contend with others. Glory not, if you cherish such strifes and contentions,
to the breach of Christian peace and concord. You are liars against the truth, which you profess.
Do not think these proceed from true zeal, nay, nay, it is but bitter envy, and bitter zeal.
Do not flatter yourselves with an apprehension of wisdom, or knowledge, or religion. That is
wisdom indeed, but mark of what nature. It is earthy, sensual, and devilish. And indeed, that
is a foolish wisdom, to say no worse of it.

You see, then, what need we have of the exhortation of the apostle (Eph. vi. 11), “Put on the
whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.” Truly we
may stand against his darts, and violent open thrusts at our conscience; when we,(439) being
ignorant of his devices, and not acquainted with his depths (2 Cor. ii. 11, Rev. ii. 24) will
not be able to stand against his ways. For we have a great and subtile party to wrestle with,
principalities and powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places, or heavenly things (as
some render the word). He exercises much wickedness, spiritual invisible wickedness in heavenly
and religious things, in which it is hard to wrestle, unless we be endowed with faith, knowledge,
and righteousness, and shod with the gospel of peace, the peaceable gospel reducing our spirits
to a peaceable temper. I conceive there is nothing the world hath been more abused with, than
the notion of zeal, justice, and such like, and there is nothing wherein a Christian is more
ready to deceive himself than this. Therefore I conceive the Holy Ghost has undeceived us in
this, and hath of purpose used the word zeal as often in a bad sense as in a good one, and
usually chooses to express envy and malice by it, though another word might suit as well, and
be more proper. So here bitter zeal, ζηλος φρενος, is reckoned among the works of the flesh,
Gal. v. 20. And we are exhorted to walk honestly as in the day, not in strife and envy, or
zeal. And therefore the apostle rebukes sharply the Corinthians: “Are ye not carnal, and walk
as men, whereas there is among you envying, or zeal, and strife,” 1 Cor. iii. 3. Zeal is a
vehemency of affection in any earnest pursuit, or opposition of a thing, and to make it good,
it must not only be fixed upon a commendable and good object, but must run in the right channel,
between the banks of moderation, charity, and sobriety. If it overflows these, certainly that
excess proceeds not simply and purely from the love of God, or the truth, but from some latent
corruption or lust in our members, which takes occasion to swell up with it. I find in scripture
the true zeal of God hath much self denial in it. It is not exercised so much concerning a
man’s own matters, as concerning the matters that are purely and merely concerning God’s glory.
It is the most flexible, condescending, and forbearing thing in those things that relate to
ourselves and our own interests. Thus Moses is commended as the meekest man, when Aaron and
Miriam raise sedition against him, Num. xii. 3. He had not affections to be commoved upon that
account. But how much is he stirred and provoked upon the apprehension of the manifest dishonour
of God, by the people’s idolatry? How many are lions in their own cause, and in God’s as simple
and blunt as lambs? And how much will our spirits be commoved when our own interest lies in
the business, and hath some conjunction with God’s interest, but if these are parted, our fervour
abates, and our heat cools? I lay down this, then, as the fundamental principle of true zeal,
it is like charity that seeketh not its own things.

But to make the nature of it clear, I give you three characters of it, verity, charity and
impartiality. I say it hath truth in it, a good thing for the object, and knowledge of that
good thing in the subject, for the principle of it: “It is good to be zealously affected always
in a good thing,” Gal. iv. 18. Zeal is an evil thing, hath something of the impatient and restless
nature of the devil in it. There is nothing we should be more deliberate and circumspect in,
than what to employ or bestow our affections upon. We should have a certain persuasion of the
unquestionable goodness of that which we are ardent and vehement to obtain, else the more ardour
and vehemency, the more wickedness is in it. The Jews had a zeal for God, but not according
to knowledge, and that is a blind impetuous self will. For if a man take a race at his full
speed in the dark, he cannot but catch a fall.(440) The eager and hot pursuits of men are founded
upon some gross misapprehensions.

Secondly, There must not only be a goodness supposed in the object, but some correspondence
between the worth and weight of that goodness and the measure of our desires and affections,
else there wants that conformity between the soul and truth which makes a true zeal of God.
I mean this, the soul’s most vehement desires should be employed about the chiefest good, and
our zeal move in relation to things unquestionably good, and not about things of small moment,
or of little edification. This is the apostolic rule, that not only we consider that there
be some truth in the thing, but that we especially take notice, if there be so much truth and
goodness as requires such a measure of vehemency and affection. Therefore in lesser things
we should have lesser commotion, and in greater things greater, suitable to them. Otherwise
the Pharisees who exercised their zeal about trifles, and neglected the weightier matters of
the law, (Matt. xxiii. 23.) would not have been reproved by Christ. And indeed this is the
zeal to which we are redeemed by Christ. Tit. ii. 14. Be ye zealous of good works, of works
that are unquestionably good, such as piety, equity, and sobriety. There is nothing more incongruous
than to strain at a gnat and swallow a camel, to spend the vital spirits upon things of small
concernment to our own or others’ edification, and to have nothing to spare for the weightier
matters of true godliness. It is as if a man should strike a feather or the air with all his
might: He must needs wrest his arms. Even so, to strike with the spiritual sword of our affections,
with such vehemency, at the lighter and emptier matters of religion, cannot choose but to disjoint
the spirit, and put it out of course, as there is a falsehood in that zeal that is so vehement
about a light matter, though it have some good in it. For there is no suitable proportion between
the worth of the thing and the vehemency of the spirit. Imagination acts in both. In the one
it supposes a goodness, and it follows it, and in the other, it imposes a necessity and a worth
far beyond that which really is, and so raises up the spirit to that height of necessity and
worth that hath no being but in a man’s imagination. I think there is no particular that the
apostle doth so much caveat. For I find in 1 Tim. i. 4 he takes off such endless matters that
minister questioning rather than godly edifying, and gives us a better subject to employ our
zeal upon, ver 5, the great end and sum of all religion, love to God and man, proceeding from
a pure heart, a good conscience, and faith unfeigned, from which we must needs swerve, when
we turn aside to such empty and vain janglings, ver 6. For truly we have but narrow and limited
spirits, and it must needs follow, when we give them very much to one thing, that they cannot
attend another thing seriously, as Christ declares, (Matt. vi. 24.) “no man can serve two masters,”
&c. And therefore there is much need of Christian wisdom to single out and choose the most
proper and necessary object. For as much as we give other things that have not so much connexion
with that, we take from it as much; and the apostle counsels us, (1 Tim. iv. 7.) rather to
exercise ourselves unto true godliness, and to the most substantial things in it, rather than
vain things, and opposition of science, chap vi. 3-5, 20. There he opposes the wholesome words
of Christ, and the doctrine that is according to godliness, unto questions, and strifes of
words, whereof comes envy, railings, evil-surmisings, and perverse disputings of men of corrupt
minds. And it is very observable that he is pressing the duties of believing servants towards
their masters, whether believers or infidels, that the name of God be not blasphemed, nor the
gospel evil spoken of. For there is nothing so much exposes it to misconstruction, as when
it is stretched and abused unto the prejudice of natural and civil duties, and doubtless there
would be many doubts and questions about it in these days, some contending for worldly pre-eminence
over the Pagans, and some for the levelling of all Christians. But, says he, “If any man teach
otherwise,” or contend about this, “he is proud, knowing nothing,” &c. He hath forsaken the
substance of true godliness, which consists in good works shining before men, and disabuses
the notion of Christian liberty to the dishonour of Christ, and hath supposed gain, a worldly
carnal interest of the godly, to be piety, and so pursues that fancy of his own. He renews
this in the Second Epistle, (chap. ii. 14-16.) showing that these strifes about words, albeit
they seem to be upon grounds of conscience at the beginning, yet they increase unto more ungodliness,
ver. 23. And unto Titus he gives the same charge very solemnly, (Tit. iii. 8, 9.) “I will that
thou affirm constantly, that they who believe in God should be careful to maintain good works.
But avoid foolish and unlearned questions,” &c. For “this is a faithful saying.” But again,

Thirdly, Zeal must have charity with it, and this all the scriptures cited prove. It must be
so tempered with love, that it vents not to the breach of Christian peace and concord. Charity
envieth not, or is not zealous. When zeal wants charity, it is not zeal but envy. And hence
it is that there are so frequent and fervent exhortations to avoid such questions as may gender
strifes, and contentions, and malice. Now certainly there was some truth in them, and something
of conscience also in them. Yet he dissuades entirely the prosecution of them to the rigour,
as men are apt to do, but wills us rather to have faith in ourselves. And truly I think the
questions that did then engender strifes, and rent the church, were as much if not more momentous
nor the most part of these about which we bite and devour one another,—the questions of the
law, the circumcision, and eating of things sacrificed to idols, of things indifferent, lawful,
or not lawful. Yet all these he would have subordinated unto the higher end of the commandment,
charity, 1 Tim. i. 4, 5. And when he exhorts the Corinthians to be zealous for spiritual gifts,
he would yet have them excel in these things which edify the church, 1 Cor. xiv. 1-12. “Covet
earnestly the best gifts,” says he, and yet he shows them a more excellent way, and that is
charity, (1 Cor. xiii. 1.) to do all these things for the good and edification of the church,
rather than of our own opinion, 1 Cor. xii. 3; chap. xiv. 12. I find where the word zeal is
taken in a bad sense it hath these works of darkness attending it, wrath, strife, malice, &c.
Gal. v. 20; 1 Cor. iii. 3; Rom. xiii. 13. It is accompanied with such a hellish crowd of noisome
lusts. Let me add a differential character of it. It is uncharitable, contentious, and malicious.
It can do nothing, condescend to nothing, and is conversant about nothing, but what pleases
our own humour, for the peace and unity of the church. It is a self-willed impetuous thing,
like a torrent that carries all down before it. But truly right zeal runs calmly and constantly
within the banks; it will rather consume its own bowels within with grief, than devour others
without.

Sermon VI.

    Matth. xi. 28.—“Come unto me, all ye that labour, and are
    wearied,” &c.

It is the great misery of Christians in this life, that they have such poor, narrow, and limited
spirits, that are not fit to receive the truth of the gospel in its full comprehension; from
whence manifold misapprehensions in judgment, and stumbling in practice proceed. The beauty
and life of things consist in their entire union with one another, and in the conjunction of
all their parts. Therefore it would not be a fit way to judge of a picture by a lineament,
or of an harmony by a discrepant, nor of the world by some small parcel of it; but take all
the parts together, all the notes and draughts, as conjoined by art in such an order, and there
appears nothing but beauty and consent. Even so it falls out in our conceptions of the gospel.
The straitness and narrowness of our spirits takes in truth by parcels, disjointed from the
whole, looks upon one side of it, and sees not the other. As for example, sometimes there appears
unto us our duty and strait obligation to holy walking and this being seen and considered alone,
ordinarily fills the soul with some fear, jealousies, and confusion. Another time, there rises
out from under the cloud, the mercy and peace of Christ in inviting, accepting, and pardoning
sinners, by his blood, that cleanses from all sin; and in that view (such is our weakness and
shortness of sight) there is nothing else presented but pardoning grace; and hence there is
occasion given to the corruption of our hearts, to insinuate secretly and subtilely unto us
some inclinations to more liberty, and indulgence to the flesh. Thus you see what stumbling
in practice, and disorder in walking, this partial way of receiving the truth occasioneth.
But it hath no less influence upon the many controversies and differences in doctrine and opinion,
about grace and works. For from whence arise these mistakes on both hands, but from the straitness
of our apprehensions, that we do not take the truth of God in its full latitude, but being
eager upon one part and zealous of it, we almost lose the remembrance, and sometimes fall,
in wrangling with the other? Many that proclaim the free grace of the gospel, their fault is,
not that they make it freer than it is, for truly it is as free of any Antinomian can apprehend
it, but rather because they take it not in its entire and full complexion, which best declares
the freedom of it, as comprehending both the pardon of sin and purity from sin, grace towards
us and grace within us; and so, while they only plead for the one, they seem at least to oppugn
the other. And, in like manner, others apprehending the necessity, beauty, and comeliness of
holiness and new obedience, are much in pressing and declaring this in opposition to the other
way; in which there may be some mistake, not in making it more meritorious than it is, but
at leastwise(441) in such a manner it may be holden out, as may somewhat obscure the freedom
of God’s grace. The occasion of both these misapprehensions may be from the scattering of these
diverse parcels of truth, as so many pearls in the field of the scripture; one is found here,
and one takes it up, as if there were no more; here is repentance, and away he goes with that,
without conjoining these scattered pieces into one body. But yet our Saviour sometimes gives
us complete sums and models of the gospel, in which he presents all at one view at once, and
especially in these words now read. The sum of all the gospel is contained in two words, “Come
unto me,” and “take my yoke upon you.” All the duty of a Christian, and all his encouragement
is here. His duty is to believe in Christ, and to give himself up to his obedience, and become
his disciple, and to follow his example; and his encouragement is the rest promised, rest to
his soul,—which is the only proper seat, of rest or disquiet. It is most capable and sensible
of both,—and this rest includes in its bosom, not only peace and tranquillity of mind here,
which all the creatures combined cannot give, but all felicity besides; that eternal rest from
all the labours of this life, and complacency in the fruition of God for ever. You see, then,
what is the full invitation of the gospel. It is nothing else but come, and have rest. “Take
on an easy yoke, and ye shall find rest. Come and be happy. Come and receive life. That which
you seek elsewhere, both ignorantly and vainly, here it is only to be found. Come (says Christ),
and I promise to give it unto you. Wait upon me by obedience, and you shall at length find
by experience, that rest which I am willing to give you.”

I desire you may consider both the order and the connexion of these integral parts of the gospel.
The order of the gospel is a great part of the gospel. In some things method is arbitrary,
and it matters not which go before, or which follow after, but here they become essential,
and so a great part of the matter itself. There must be first coming to Christ, and then taking
on his yoke; first believing, then obeying his commandments. This is as essential an order,
as is between the fruit and the root, the stream and the fountain, the sun-beam and the sun.
Will any man expect fruit till he plant? There must then first be the implanting of the soul
into Christ by faith, and then in due season follow the fruits of obedience by abiding in him.
The perverting of this order makes much disorder in the spirits and lives of Christians. But
how can it choose but all must wither and decay, if the soul be not planted by this river,
whose streams gladden the city of our God, if the roots of it be not watered with the frequent
apprehension and consideration of the grace of Christ, or the riches of God’s mercy? The way
and method of many Christians is just opposite to this. For you labour and weary yourselves,
how to attain some measure and satisfaction in the latter, before you adventure the first,
to have the heart humbled by godly sorrow, and the soul inflamed by love to God, and the yoke
of his obedience submitted unto; while in the mean time you deliberately suspend the exercise
of faith, and apprehension of the pardoning grace of Christ. Now, how this can consist either
with sound reason or religion, I do not see. For were it not a point of madness to seek fruits
from a tree that is lying above ground, and to refuse to plant it till it give some experience
of its fruitfulness in the air? And what can be more absurd, than to imagine to have the Spirit
of Christ working in the heart godly sorrow, or Christian love, and so renewing it again to
his image, and yet withal Christ not received into the heart by faith? Do you not know that
this is his first entrance into the soul? He enters there by the door of faith, and a soul
enters into him at the door of the promise by faith. How then do ye imagine he shall work in
you, before you will admit him to come in to you? Besides, either you apprehend that you may
attain to such gracious qualifications by your own industry without Christ, which is blasphemous
to his name and office; for if you may, what need have you of him? Or, if you believe that
he is the only treasure of all grace and wisdom, and that all things are delivered to him of
the Father, then how do you seek these things without him? It must be wretched folly to seek
them elsewhere, and not come to him. And indeed it is observable, that this exhortation to
come unto Christ is subjoined unto ver. 27, “All things are delivered unto me by the Father.”
And therefore, seeing all grace, and life, and happiness is enclosed in me, seeing without
me there is nothing but a barren wilderness, in which you may toil and labour, and weary yourselves
in fruitless pursuits, come hither where it is originally and plentifully seated, and you cannot
miss your end, nor lose your labour. And for the farther illustration of this subject, I shall
only add that,

Secondly, There is another woful mistake possesses your minds who take up this way, for certainly
you must think that there is some worth or dignity in it, whereby you intend to recommend yourselves
unto Christ. For to what purpose is that anxious and scrupulous exaction of such previous qualifications,
if it be not to give some more boldness and confidence to thy mind, to adventure to believe
the promises and come to Christ, because thou thinkest thou canst not come when thou art so
unclean and so unworthy? And therefore thou apprehendest that thou canst so purge thyself from
sin and adorn thyself with graces, as may procure some liking, and procure some favour at Christ’s
hand, which is indeed very opposite to the tenor of the proposal of free grace in the gospel
in which there is nothing upon the creature’s part required as a condition or qualification
to make them the more welcome in coming to Christ.

Let this word then abide with you: “Come unto me, and take my yoke upon you, and learn of me,”
which in substance is this, Come and cast your burdens on me first, and then take my burden
upon you. O it is a blessed exchange! Cast your heavy burden upon my back, and take my light
burden on yours. For what is it to invite them that labour and are ladened to come, but to
come and repose themselves for rest upon him? And that is directly to lay over that which burdens
and ladeneth them upon him. There is an unsupportable burden of sin, the guilt of sin, and
there is an intolerable weight of wrath. “Mine iniquities are gone over mine head (Ps. xxxviii.
4.) and as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.” And when the wrath of God is joined
to this burden, the name of the Lord burning with anger, how may you conceive a soul will be
pressed under that burden, which is so heavy, that it will press the mountains into valleys,
make the sea flee out of its place, and the earth tremble? Now here is the invitation. Is there
any penitent soul that feels the burden of the weight of sin and wrath? Let them come and disburden
their souls of care, fear, and anxiety, in this blessed port of rest and refuge for poor sinners.
Is there a yoke of transgressions wreathed about thy neck, and bound by the hand of God, (Lam.
i. 14) a yoke that neither men nor angels are able to bear? Then, I beseech you, come hither,
and put over your yoke upon Jesus Christ. Tie it about him for God hath laid upon him the iniquities
of us all, and he bore our sins. He did bear the yoke of divine displeasure, and it was bound
about his neck with God’s own hand, with his own consent. Now, here is the actual liberty and
the releasement of a soul from under the yoke, here is its actual rest and quiet from under
the pain of this burden, when a soul is made to consent unto, and willingly to put over that
burden upon Christ. And this freedom and vacancy from the unsupportable yoke of guilt, will
certainly dispose the soul, and make it more capable of receiving the easy and portable yoke
of his commandments. I or you may easily perceive how easy love maketh all things, even difficulties
themselves. Let once a soul be engaged that way to Christ, (and there is no possibility of
engaging it in affection without some taste and feeling, or believing apprehension of his love
and sufficiency for us,) and you will see that the rough way will be made plain and the crooked
way straight, heavy things light, and hard things easy. For what command can be grievous to
that soul who apprehends that Christ hath taken the great weight of wrath off it, and carried
away the intolerable pain of its guiltiness, which would have pressed and depressed it eternally,
without any hope of relaxation or ease? Hath he borne a yoke bound on by the majesty of God,
and fastened with the cords of his displeasure? And can it be so heavy to a believing soul
to take up that obedience which is fastened with the cords of love? And besides, how much will
faith facilitate this, and make this yoke to be cheerfully and willingly submitted to, because
it delivers the soul from those unsufferable cares and fears, which did quite enervate its
strength, and take away its courage? For, I pray you, what is there in a soul under the fear
of wrath, that is not totally disabled by that heavy pressure for any willing or cheerful obedience?
The mystery(442) of the spirit is spent that way, the courage of the soul is defeated, the
heart is weakened, and nothing is suitable to the yoke of Christian love and obedience. But
when once a soul apprehends Christ, this is a reposition of all his cares and burdens, and
comes to exoner(443) his soul in him, and cast his burthen upon him. Then the soul is lightened
as it were for this journey, then he may walk in the ways of obedience, without the pressing
fear and pushing anguish of the dread of condemnation of the law. To conclude this head, nothing
will make you take up this yoke willingly, or bear it constantly, except you be delivered from
the other yoke that was so heavy even to Christ, and that made him cry, “My soul is exceeding
heavy and troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour.”

Now, these who are here in the text invited to come unto Christ,—you see them described to
be labouring and heavy laden persons. “Come unto me, all ye that labour,” &c. At least it seems
to hold forth a previous qualification and condition of believing, without which we may not
venture to come unto Christ. Indeed it is commonly so taken, and mistaken. Many conceive that
the clause is restrictive and exclusive, that is to say, that this description of burdened
and wearied sinners is a limitation of the command of believing, and that it circumscribes
the warrant of coming to Christ, as if none might lawfully come unto him but these that are
thus burdened, and thus it is supposed to be a bar, set upon the door of believing at which
sinners must enter in to Christ, to hold out, and shut out all those who are not thus qualified
for access, which I truly conceive is contrary to the whole strain and current of the dispensation
of the gospel. Therefore I take it to be rather declarative, or ampliative, or both. I say,
it is partly for declaration, not of the warrant to come, but of the persons who ordinarily
do come to Christ. It declares not simply and universally who should come, but those who actually
do come unto Christ. Take it thus then. All persons who hear the gospel are invited to come
unto our Saviour without exception, the blind, the lame, those on the highways, not only the
thirsty and the hungry, (Isa. lv. 1.) but those who have no thirst or hunger for righteousness,
but only for things that do not profit (ver. 2), not only the broken hearted, that desire to
come near to righteousness, but even the stout hearted that are far from righteousness. Such
are commanded to hearken, and incline their ear, Isa. xlvi. 12, lv. 2, 3. Now, this command
that reaches all, gives an immediate actual warrant and right to all to come, if they will.
For what is required previous to give warrant to obedience, but the command of obedience? And
therefore the Jews were challenged, because they would not come to Christ that they might have
life. Now then there is no bar of seclusion set upon the door of the gospel, to keep out any
soul from entering in. There is no qualification or condition prescribed by the gospel, and
without which if he come, he is actually welcomed and received by Christ, whatsoever you suppose
he wants. It is true, men’s own security and unbelief will exclude them from Christ, but that
is no retraction on the gospel’s part. It is a bar set on a man’s own heart, that shuts him
up from coming to the patent entry of the gospel.

Therefore I take it thus, that though all ought to come to Christ, and none that are indeed
willing are debarred for the want of any supposed condition, yet none will actually and really
come, till they be in some measure sensible of the weight of their sins, and the wrath of God,
till they are labouring under the feeling of their own misery and desperate condition. And
whatsoever be the measure of this, if it give so much uneasiness to a man that he can be content
with rest and ease in Christ, he may, and certainly ought, to come unto Jesus, and cast all
his burdens upon him. I think then, that way that is in so frequent use among Christians, to
sit down, and essay to bring our hearts to some deep humiliation, and so to prescribe and order
it, as we will deliberately delay, and suspend the thoughts of believing, till we have attained
something of this,—I say, this way crosses the very intention of Christ in uttering these words,
and such like. For certainly he meant to take away impediments, and not to cast delays in our
way. And therefore I said the word was rather for ampliation, that is, rather to encourage
these who accounted themselves excluded, than to exclude any who desire to come. “Come unto
me, every one, but especially you that labour, ye should make the greatest haste. Come unto
me even though ye apprehend the wrath of God to be intolerable, and have foolishly wearied
yourselves in seeking rest by other ways. Ye that are most apprehensive of your sins, and so
are apt to doubt of any acceptation,—you that think yourselves worse than any, and so to have
least warrant to come to me,—yet come, and I will by no means cast you out, but give rest to
your souls.” So that it is not intended to exclude those who are most ready to think themselves
excluded, because they see so much sin in themselves.

Therefore, my beloved, without further disputing about it, let me exhort you in the name of
Jesus Christ, who here invites and commands you, that you would at once put a period to this,
and bring it to some conclusion. Since you are diseased and disquieted in yourselves, and cannot
find rest in your own bosoms, I beseech you come here, where it is most likely to be found,
and it is most certain, if you come you shall find it. Do not continue wrangling and contesting
about the matter; for what is that but to increase your labour, and vexation, and add to your
heavy burden? It will be so far from giving you any ease in the result of it, that it will
rather make your wounds more incurable, and your burdens more intolerable, which is both opposite
to the intention of the gospel and the nature of believing. Here then is your rest, here is
your refreshing rest. Here it is in quiet yielding to his gracious offers, and silent submitting
to the gospel, not in bawling or contending with it, which is truly a contending against ourselves.
Isa. xxviii. 12. This is the rest, wherewith you may cause the weary to rest. It is nowhere
else, not in heaven or earth, for there is no back that will take on this burden or can carry
it away from us. There is no disburdening of a sinner of guilt and wrath, in any other port
or haven, but in Christ, who is the city of refuge. Wheresoever you think to exoner yourselves
besides this, you will find no refreshing, but a multiplication of burdens and cares. Your
burden shall be rolled over upon you again with double weight. Therefore, my beloved, if you
will not hear this, consider what follows, viz. you shall refuse this rest and refreshing and
restlessly seek another rest. You may go and be doing, but you shall fall backward, and be
broken and snared. Your burden shall fall back upon you, and you shall fall and be broken under
it. That which the Lord said to Israel when they would flee to Egypt, is most true in this
case. “In returning, and in rest ye shall be saved, in quietness and confidence shall be your
strength;” but alas! they would not, that is a sad close.

Sermon VII.

    Matt. xi. 20.—“Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me,” &c.

Self love is generally esteemed infamous and contemptible among men. It is of a bad report
every where, and indeed as it is taken commonly, there is good reason for it, that it should
be hissed out of all societies, if reproaching and speaking evil of it would do it. But to
speak the truth, the name is not so fit to express the thing, for that which men call self
love, may rather be called self hatred. Nothing is more pernicious to a man’s self, or pestilent
to the societies of men than this, for if it may be called love, certainly it is not self love,
but the love of some baser and lower thing than self, to our eternal prejudice. For what is
ourselves, but our souls? Matt. xvi. 26, Luke ix. 25. For our Lord there shows that to lose
our souls, and to lose ourselves, is one and the same thing. But what is it to love our souls?
Certainly it is not to be enamoured with their deformed shape, as if it were perfect beauty?
Neither can it be interpreted, any true love to our souls, to seek satisfaction and rest unto
them, where it is not at all to be found, for this is to put them in perpetual pain and disquiet.
But here it is that true self-love, and soul love centereth, in that which our Saviour propounds,
namely, to desire and seek the everlasting welfare of our souls, and that perpetual rest unto
them, after which there is no labour nor motion any more. Therefore, to draw unto himself the
souls of men the more sweetly, and the more strongly too, he fasteneth about them a cord of
their own interest, and that the greatest, real rest; and by this he is likely to prevail with
men in a way suited to their reasonable natures. “Come unto me, all ye that labour and are
wearied, and I will give you rest.” Self interest is ordinarily exploded, at least disowned
and disclaimed in men’s discourses, as a base, wretched, sordid thing, which, though all men
act by it, yet they are all ashamed to profess. But yet, if the interest be so high as indeed
to concern self, and that which is truly our self, then both nations and persons count it the
most justifiable ground of many of their actions, self preservation. But yet there is a higher
interest than that, that relates to the eternal interest of our souls. And truly to own and
profess, and prosecute that interest of soul preservation, of eternal rest to our souls, is
neither ignoble, nor unbeseeming a Christian; neither is it any way inconsistent with the pursuance
of that more public and catholic interest of God’s glory, in respect of which all interests,
even the most general and public, are particular and private. For this is the goodness of our
God, that he hath bound up his own honour and our happiness in one bundle together; that he
hath knit the rest of our precious souls, and the glory of his own name inseparably together,
not only to condescend to our weakness, but to deal with us suitably to our natures. He proposes
our own interests chiefly, to draw us to himself, and allows this happy self seeking in which
a man loses himself, that he may be found again in Christ. Seeing then it is thus, that elsewhere,
wheresoever you turn yourselves, within or without, there is no rest, but endless labour, and
fruitless toil, (you find this already by experience, you who apprehend the weight of your
sins, and the greatness of divine wrath,) that there is an intolerable pressure upon your souls
already, and that this is nothing diminished, but rather augmented, by your vain labours and
inquiries after some ease and peace,—your endeavours to satisfy your own consciences, and pacify
God’s wrath some other way, having filled you with more restless anxiety, and seeing there
is a certain assurance of true rest and tranquillity here, upon the easiest terms imaginable,
that is, “come to Jesus Christ, all ye who are disquieted and restless, and he will give you
rest,”—O should not this be an invincible and irresistible attractive to your hearts, to draw
them to our Redeemer over all impediments? The rest is perfect happiness; and yet the terms
are easy. Only come and embrace it, and seek it nowhere else. There is a kind of quietness
and tranquillity in the seeking and attaining this rest. All other rests are come to by much
labour and business. Here Christ would have you,—who have laboured in vain for rest, and lost
your toil and your pains,—to come at it, by ceasing from labour, as it were, that which you
could not attain by labour, to come by it, cunctando (by keeping quiet), which you could not
gain pugnando (by fighting). There is a quiet and silent way of believing promises, and rolling
yourselves upon Christ offered in them, which is the nearest and most compendious way to this
blessed rest and quietness, which, if you think to attain by much clamour and contention of
debate or dispute, or by the painful labour and vexation of your spirits, which you call exercise
of mind,—you take the way about, and put yourselves further off from it. Faith has a kind of
present vacancy and quietness in it, in the very acting of it. It is not a tumultuous thing,
but composes the soul to quietness and silence, to a cessation from all other things but the
looking upon Christ holden out in the gospel, and this in due time will give greater rest and
tranquillity. Consider what the Lord speaks to the people that would take a journey upon them
to Egypt, (Isa. xxx. 15). “In returning and rest shall ye be saved, in quietness and confidence
shall be your strength.” Their peace was near hand, but they would travel abroad to seek it,
and they find trouble. Their strength was to sit still and be quiet, and trust in the Lord.
Nay, but they would not sit still, but flee and wander abroad to their old house of bondage,
and therefore, says the Lord, you shall flee. Now, may not this represent the folly and madness
of souls that are under the fear of wrath and sense of sin, and be as it were a type of it?
Our rest is in resting on a Saviour, our peace is in quiet confidence in him, it is not far
off, it is in our mouth. “The word is near” (says Paul), it is neither in heaven above, nor
in the depth below. We need not go abroad and search for that happiness we want. It is nigh
at hand in the gospel, but while we refuse this, and give ourselves to restless agitation and
perplexity about it, sometimes we apprehend that we are eased in our travels and endeavours,
but it shall prove to us no better than Egypt a house of bondage. Wheresoever we seek shelter
out of Christ, we will find it a broken reed, that not only will fail under us, but in the
rent will split our hand, and pierce us through with many sorrows. To conclude then this head,
coming to Christ with our burdens is a motion towards rest. For he adds, “I will give you rest.”
But moreover, there is a kind of rest in this motion. It is an easier, plainer, and pleasanter
motion, than these troubled and laborious windings and wanderings of our hearts after vanity.
He persuades you to walk in this path of pleasantness and peace, and you shall find a great
rest at the end of it, “receiving (says Peter) the end of your faith the eternal salvation
of your souls.”

Now the next thing in the text is, having come to Jesus, and found rest and happiness in him,
we must take his yoke upon us. And this is the other integral part of the gospel, of which
I desire you to consider these few particulars, that occur in the words,—The order in which
it is to be taken on,—The nature of this yoke,—And the most ready and expeditious way of bearing
it.

The method and order in which Christ’s yoke is to be taken upon us, is first, To come unto
our Saviour, and give over the yoke of our transgressions to him, and then to take up the yoke
of his commandments from him, to believe in his promises, and rest our souls on them, and to
take up the yoke of his precepts, and proceed to motion, and walking in that rest. Now this
method hath a double advantage in it, for the real receiving and carrying of Christ’s yoke.
It gives vacancy and room for it, and it gives strength and furniture(444) for it. It expels
that which would totally disable you to bear it, and brings in that comfortable supply, which
will strengthen and enable you to bear it. Consider what posture a soul is put into, that lives
under the terror of God, and is filled with the apprehension of the guilt of sin and the greatness
of God’s wrath. I say, such a soul, till he have some rest from that grievous labour, is fit
for no other more pleasant labour, until he be something disburthened of that which is like
to press him down to hell. He is not very capable of any new burden, until the yoke of his
transgressions that is wreathed about his neck be taken off. Do ye think he can find any vacant
room for the yoke of Christ’s obedience? When a soul is under the dominion of fear and terror,
under the power of grief and anguish, do ye think he is fit for any thing, or can do any thing,
but groan in that prison of darkness, under these chains? Such a soul is in bondage, under
servitude, and can neither take up this yoke of liberty nor walk in it. The strength and moisture
of the spirit is drunk up by the poison of these arrows, and there remains neither attention,
affection, nor spirit for any thing else. Therefore here is the incomparable advantage that
redounds from this way of coming first to Christ, and exonering our cares and fears in his
bosom, and in disburthening our sins upon him, who hath taken them on, and carried them away,
as that scape goat sent unto the wilderness on which they laid the sins of the people. By this
means, I say, you shall have a vacancy for the yoke of Christ and liberty to all your faculties,
your understanding, will, and affections, (which are no better than slaves and captives, non
sui juris, while they are under these tyrannous passions of fear and horror,) to attend the
obedience of Christ and the drawing of his yoke. This will relieve your souls out of prison,
and then you will be fit for employment. Besides this, there is furniture and help brought
into the soul, which enables it to this; and without which, though it were not pressed under
a burden of sin and wrath, yet it would neither be able nor willing. There is that supply and
strength that faith brings from Christ, which arises from our mystical implantation in him,
from hence flows that communication of his grace to a believer. Now this efficacy and virtue
that is in Christ the head, is transmitted unto the members of his body by believing in him.
Indeed the very apprehension of such a Saviour may have some quickening virtue in it, but certainly
the great influence of life is annexed to it by his gracious promises, “Because I live, ye
shall live also,” John xiv. 19. “As the living Father who sent me, lives in himself, and I
have life by the Father, so he that believes on me, shall live by me,” John vi. 57. “Abide
in me, and I in you, and ye shall bring forth much fruit.” He hath graciously appointed the
derivation of that life to us, to be conjoined with our right apprehensions, and believing
meditations of him, making, as it were, faith the opening of his house, to let in his fulness
to us. Now, besides this more mysterious and supernatural furniture and supply, there is even
something that is naturally consequent to it, some enabling of the soul for holy obedience,
flows naturally from the love of Christ. And when ever a believer apprehends what he has done
for him, finds some rest and relaxation in him, it cannot but beget some inward warmth of love
to him who so loved us. “Faith worketh by love,” says Paul. The way it goes to action is by
affection. It at once inflames that, and then there is nothing more active and irresistible.
It hath a kind of indefatigable firmness in it, it hath an unwearied strength to move in the
yoke all the day long. In a word, nothing almost is impossible or too hard for it, for it is
of the nature of fire to break through all, and over all impediments. Nothing is so easy but
it becomes uneasy to a soul under fear, and nothing so difficult but it becomes easy to a soul
wherein perfect love has cast out fear. For love makes a soul to move supernaturally in divine
things, as a natural or co-natural agent, freely, willingly, and constantly. If they be not
suitable to our natures as corrupted, and so, grievous to love, then, as much as it possesses
the heart, it makes the heart co-natural to them, and supplies the place of that natural instinct
that carries other creatures to their own works and ends, strongly and sweetly. 1 John v. 3,
Psal. cxix. 165, Neh. vii. 10, Col. iii. 15. Now you may judge whether or not you can possibly
expect so much advantage in any other method or way you take. This I leave to your own consideration
and experience.

And so I come to the next thing proposed, secondly, To consider what this yoke is, and what
is the nature of it. And may I not upon this head justly enough distinguish a twofold yoke,
of doctrine and discipline, that is, the yoke of Christ’s commandments and laws, which both,
in his love and wisdom, he hath imposed upon us, for the regulation of our lives? And this
we are to take on by an obedience cheerful, willing, and constant. But there is another yoke
mentioned in scripture, namely, the yoke of his chastisements and correcting, such a one as
Ephraim (Jer. xxxi. 18) was tried with, and was long or he could learn to bear it. It is good
for a man to bear this yoke in his youth, Lam. iii. 27. Now whether or not this be meant here,
I do not contend. The first is the chief intent, and it is not needful to exclude this altogether,
since it is not the smallest point of Christianity to take up the one yoke by submission, as
well as to take up the other by obedience. How ever it be, obedience must be taken so largely,
as it cannot but comprehend the sweet compliance, and submission of the will to God’s will
in all cross-dispensations, which is no little probation of the loyal and obedient temper of
the heart. Both yokes must be taken up, for so Christ speaks of his cross, “If any man will
be my disciple, he must take up his cross and follow me,” Matt. xvi. 24, 25. It must be lifted
up upon our shoulders, as it were, willingly, and cheerfully, we actually concurring, as it
were, to the bearing of it, and the receiving it. But there is this difference between the
one yoke and the other, the one cannot be imposed upon us, neither can we bear it, except we
actively and with our own consent and delight take it up. Though God may impose laws upon us,
and give us righteous and faithful commandments, which indeed lay a strait obligation and tie
upon us under pain of disloyalty, and rebellion, to walk in them, yet it never becomes our
yoke, and is never carried by us, until there be a subsequent consent of the soul, and a full
condescension of the heart, to embrace that yoke with delight. Till we yoke ourselves unto
his commandments, by loving and willing obedience, we have not his yoke upon us. “Thy people
shall be made willing in the day of thy power.” It is not terrors and constraints, but the
bands of love will bind us to this yoke. It must be bound upon us by the cords of love, not
of fear. He is a true king, not a tyrant, he loves imperare volentibus, “to rule every man
with his own consent,” but a tyrant “rules every man against his will,” nolentibus imperat.
But as to the other yoke of his discipline, his cross, whether it be for his sake, or whether
it be the general cross of our pilgrimage here, and the vicissitudes and changes of this life,
it is not in our arbitrament to bear a cross, or have a cross or not. Have it we must, bear
it we must, whether we choose or refuse it. There is no man can be exempted from some yoke
of this kind. No man can promise himself immunity from some cross or other, if not in poverty,
yet in abundance, if not in contempt and reproach yet in honour and greatness. There is nothing
of that kind that will not become weighty with itself alone, though nothing be superadded to
it. So then, since every man must have a yoke, he hath only the advantage who takes it up,
and bears it patiently. For if he thus sweetly comply and yield to God’s will, he will not
so much bear his cross, as his cross will bear him. If thou take it up, it will take thee up
and carry thee. If thou submit and stoop willingly to God’s good pleasure, thou wilt make it
a more easy yoke, and light burden. Ducunt volentem fata, nolentem trahunt.(445) If thou be
patient, his dispensation will gently and sweetly lead thee to rest, but an impatient soul
is dragged and drawn after it against the hair, and yet he must follow it. There is this mighty
disadvantage in our impatient unsubjection to God’s will, that it makes that a yoke which is
no yoke, no cross a cross, an easy yoke hard, and a light burden heavy, and yet notwithstanding
we must bear it. A yoke, a cross, we cannot escape, whithersoever we go, whithersoever we turn
ourselves, because we carry ourselves about with us, and our own crooked perverse apprehensions
of things which trouble us more than the things themselves. Now consider the reasonableness
of taking on the yoke of Christ’s obedience. Should we not with David, offer ourselves willingly,
and present ourselves even before we are called? “Lo I come, to do thy will, O God. I delight
in thy law, it is in my inward part,” Psal. xl. 8. There is no yoke so reasonable, if you consider
it as imposed by Christ our King and Lawgiver. Hath he not redeemed us from the house of bondage,
from the vilest and basest slavery, under the most cruel tyrants, Satan, and death, and hell?
Heb. ii. 15. Hath he not asserted and restored us into the true liberty of men, and of the
sons of God? The Son hath made us free, (John viii. 32) when we were under the most grievous
yoke of sin and wrath, and the eternal curse of God. He hath put his own neck under it and
become a curse for us, that he might redeem us from the curse of the law, and so he hath carried
away these iron chariots, these yokes of brass and iron, whereby Satan kept us in subjection,
and now been established our careful King, not only by the title of the justest and most beneficial
conquest that ever was made, but by God’s solemn appointment upon the hill of Zion, Psal. ii.
6. And being exalted a Prince to give us salvation, were it not most strange if his kingdom
should want laws, which are the life and soul of republics and monarchies? Ought not we to
submit to them gladly, and obey them cheerfully? Should not we absolutely resign ourselves
to his will, and esteem his commandments concerning all things to be right? What command should
be grievous to that soul, which is delivered from the curse of all the commandments, and is
assured never to enter into condemnation?  If there were no more to say, were it not monstrous
ingratitude to withdraw ourselves from subjection to him, or yield obedience to any other strange
lords, as our lusts are? Would it not be an unexemplified unthankfulness to requite rebellion
to him, for so much unparalleled affection? Since we are not our own, but bought with a price,
we are not sui juris,(446) to dispose of ourselves. All reason should say, that he who payed
so dear for us should have the use of us. And that is nothing but glory he seeks from us, that
we offer and consecrate soul and body to him, to come under his yoke. As for the gain, it redounds
all to ourselves, and that as the greater gain too.

Now a word to the last thing proposed, for I can only hint at it. The most excellent and ready
way of bearing this yoke, is to learn of him, to present him as our pattern, and to yield ourselves
to him, as his disciples and scholars, not only to learn his doctrine, but to imitate his example
and practice, “to walk even as he walked.” And herein is great moment(447) of persuasion, Christ
puts nothing upon you, but what he did take upon himself. There is so much more reason for
you to take it up, that it is his own personal yoke, which he himself carried, for he delighted
to do the Father’s will. It was his meat and drink to work in that yoke. Now there are two
things especially wherein he propones himself the exemplar or pattern of our imitation, viz.,
his humility and meekness of spirit. He was “meek and lowly in heart.” And these graces have
the greatest suitableness to capacitate and dispose every man for taking, and keeping the yoke
of Christ. Humility and lowliness bows his back to take on the least of his commands. This
makes him stoop low, and makes his shoulders fit for it, and then meekness arms him against
all difficulties and impediments that may occur in it.

Sermon VIII.

    Matt. xi. 29.—“Take my yoke upon you,” &c.

Christianity consists in a blessed exchange of yokes between Christ and a pious soul. He takes
our uneasy yoke, and gives his easy yoke. The soul puts upon him that unsupportable yoke of
transgressions, and takes from him the portable yoke of his commandments. Our burden was heavy,
too heavy for angels, and much more for men. It would crush under it all the strength of the
creatures, for who could endure the wrath of the Almighty? Or, “what could a man give in exchange
for his soul”? Nay, that debt would drown the whole creation, if they were surety for it. Notwithstanding,
Christ hath taken that burden upon him, being able to bear it, having almighty shoulders, and
everlasting arms for it. And yet you find how heavy it was for him, when it pressed out that
groan from him, “Now is my soul sore amazed, very heavy, and exceeding sorrowful even unto
death, and what shall I say?” That which carried it away from us, hath buried it in his grave,
whither it pressed him down. It gets him very low under it, but he hath got above it and is
risen again, and whereas in vain there was a stone put above him, and sealed, he hath rolled
a stone above that yoke and burden, that it cannot be able to weigh down any believing soul
to hell; for that weight which depressed his spotless soul, would have depressed the sons of
men to eternal darkness. Now for his burden, we observe that it is of another nature, to speak
properly, than other burdens. It is not a heavy yoke or burden, but a state of liberty, an
ornament, a privilege. It is a chain of gold about a saint’s neck, to bind Christ’s laws about
them, every link of that chain is more precious than rubies or diamonds. If there be any burden
in it, it is the burden of honour, the burden of privilege, and incomparable dignity, honos
not onus or onus honoris.(448) This is that which he puts upon us, or rather that which a believer
receives from him. Now I will not have you so to take it, as if Christ did not propose the
terms thus, “If you will be willing to take on the yoke of my laws, I will take on the yoke
of your sins and curses.” Nay, it is not such an exchange as is thus mutually dependent; for
it hath pleased the Father without consulting us, and the Son without our knowledge or consent,
to conclude what to do with the heavy and unsupportable burden of sinners. The Father “laid
upon him the iniquities of us all, and he” of his own accord “hath borne our griefs, and carried
our sorrows,” (Isa. lii. 4-6) and that burden did bruise him; yea, “it pleased the Lord to
bruise him,” and it pleased himself to be bruised. O strange and unparalleled love, that could
digest so hard things, and make so grievous things pleasant! Now I say, he having thus taken
on our burden already, calls upon us afterward, and sends forth proclamations, and affectionate
invitations, “Come unto me, all ye poor sinners, that are burdened with sin, and wearied with
that burden; you who have tired yourselves in these byways, and laboured elsewhere in vain,
to seek rest and peace: you have toiled all night and caught nothing, come hither, cast your
net upon this side of the ship, and you shall find what you seek. I have undertaken your yoke
and burden, why then do you laden yourselves any more with the apprehension of it? The real
and true burden of wrath I have already carried away, why then do ye weary yourselves with
the imagination of it? Only come to me, and see what I have done, and you shall find rest and
peace.”

Now this being proponed absolutely unto sinners, and they being invited to consent to that
which Christ has done in their name, in the next place he comes to impose his easy yoke upon
us, not at all for any recompence of what he hath done, but rather for some testimony of gratitude
and thankfulness on our part, and for the manifestation of grace and love on his part. I do
indeed conceive, that the imposition of the yoke of Christ’s laws upon believers, is as much
for the declaration of his own love and goodness, as the testification of our thankfulness.
If you consider the liberty, the beauty, and the equity of this yoke, it will rather be construed
to proceed from the greatest love and favour, than to tend any way to recompence his love.
Herein is perfect liberty, Psal. cxix. 32, 45. It is an enlargement of heart, from the base
restraint and abominable servitude of the vilest lusts, that tyrannize over us, and keep our
affections in bondage. O how narrow bounds is the liberty of the spirits of men confined unto,
that they serve their own lusts! Sin itself and the lusts of the flesh, are a grievous yoke,
which the putting on of this yoke looses them from: and when the heart is thus enlarged with
love and delight in Christ, then the feet unfettered, may walk at liberty, and run in the way
of God’s commandments. “I will walk at liberty,” when I have a respect to thy ways, Psal. cxix.
45. O how spacious and broad is that way in reality, which to our first apprehension and the
common construction is strait and narrow! The truth is, there is no straitness, no bondage,
no scantiness, but in sin. That is the most abominable vassalage, and the greatest thraldom
of the immortal spirit; to be so basely dragged by the flesh downward, to the vilest drudgery,
and to be so pinched and hampered(449) within the narrowness of created and perishing things.
To speak properly, there is no slavery but this of the spirit; for it is not so contrary to
the nature and state of the body, (which by its first institution was made a servant,) to be
under the dominion of men, and further we cannot reach. Yea, it is possible for a man, while
his body is imprisoned, to be yet at greater freedom than those who imprisoned him. As his
mind is, so he is. But to be a servant of sin and unrighteousness, must totally degrade the
soul of man. It quite defaces that primitive glory, and destroys that native liberty, in which
he was created. Therefore to have this sin taken off us, and the yoke of Christ’s obedience
put on us, to be made free from sin, and become the servants of righteousness, that is the
soul’s true liberty, which sets it forth at large to expatiate in the exceeding broad commandments,
and in the infinite goodness of God, where there is infinite room for the soul.

When, then, I consider how beautiful this is for a reasonable spirit, to be under the law of
him that hath made it and redeemed it, I cannot but think that Christ doth rather beautify
and bless, than burden. The beauty of the world consists in that sweet order, and harmonious
subordination of all things, to that law God hath imposed upon them, or engraves upon their
natures. If we should suppose but one of the parts of the world to swerve from the primitive
institution, what a miserable distraction would ensue? How deformed would this beautiful and
adorned fabric become? How much more is it the beauty, grace, and comeliness of an intelligent
being, to be under the law of him that gave him a being, and to have that written in his heart,—to
be in a manner transformed by the shining glory of these laws, to be a living law? What is
it, I pray you, deforms these fallen angels, and makes them devils? Why do we paint a good
angel in a beautiful and comely image, while the devils are commonly represented in the most
horrid, ugly, and monstrous shape and visage? Is it not this that makes the difference, that
the one is fallen from a blessed subordination to the will of God, and the other keeps that
station? But both are equal in nature, and were alike in the beginning.

Add unto this, the equity of Christ’s yoke. There is nothing either so reasonable in itself,
or yet so suitable to ourselves. For what is it that he puts upon us? Truly no new commandment;
it is but the old command renewed. It is no new law, though he hath conquered us, and hath
the right of absolute dominion over us; yet he hath not changed our fundamental laws. He changes
only the present tyrannical yoke of sin: but he restores us, as it were, to our fundamental
liberty we formerly enjoyed, and that sin forced us from, when it conquered us. Christ’s yoke
is not a new imposition. It is but the ancient yoke that was bound upon man’s nature by God
the Creator. The Redeemer doth not invent or contrive one of his own; he only looses off the
yoke of iniquity, and binds on that sweet yoke of obedience and love to God. He publishes the
same laws, many of which are already written in some obscure characters upon our own minds;
and he again writes them down all over in our hearts. There is nothing superadded by Jesus
Christ, but a chain of love to bind this yoke about our necks, and a chain of grace and truth
to keep his laws. And truly these make the yoke easy, and take away the nature of a burden
from it. O what mighty and strong persuasions! O what constraining motives of love and grace
doth the gospel furnish, and the rarest cords to bind on Christ’s yoke upon a reasonable soul,—cords
of the most unparalleled love!

I shall only add unto all this, that as herein Christ hath expressed or completes the expression
of his love upon his part; so upon our part it becomes us to take on his yoke, in testimony
of our thankfulness. We owe our very selves unto him. What can be more said? We owe ourselves
once and again; for we are twice his workmanship, first created by him, and then renewed or
created again unto good works. We are bought with a price, we are not our own. Can there be
any obligation imagined beyond this? Let us therefore consecrate ourselves to his glory. Let
all who believe the gospel dedicate themselves to its obedience, not so much for salvation
to themselves, as their obligation to their Saviour. We are not called so much to holiness
and virtue that we may be saved, as, because we are saved, to be blameless before God in love.
O how gracious and honourable a disposition of this kind would it be, to serve him more out
of gratitude for what he hath done, than merely for the reward that he will give!

Sermon IX.

    Rom. xv.
This gives us ground, as it were, to retort his commands by way of
requests and supplications. The scripture here gives us a precedent, and
often elsewhere hath made his command a promise. It is then in the next
disposition, and nearest capacity, to be turned into the form of a
supplication. The joy promised in the preceding verse is elsewhere
commanded; and this immediately disposes the sinner to receive a new form
of prayer, from a believing heart, and that not only for himself, but for
others. You see how frequently such holy and hearty wishes are interjected
in his writings. And indeed such ejaculations of the soul’s desires,
whether kept within, or vented, will often interrupt the thoughts and
discourses of believers, but yet they break no sentence, they mar no
sense, no more than the interposition of a parenthesis. Such desires will
follow by a kind of natural resultance upon the lively apprehension of any
divine excellent thing, and secret complacency in it, and a stirring of
the heart to be possessed with it, will almost prevent deliberation. Such
an attractive power the excellency of any object hath in the heart, that
it draws it and engages it almost before any consultation be called about
it. Now there is something of this in these objects which we are naturally
delighted with. All at least that they want the apprehension supplies, and
this draws the heart forcibly after them, as it were, with out previous
advisement. Yet because of the limitation, emptiness, and scarcity of
these things, commonly the desires of men are contracted much within
themselves, and run towards a monopoly of those things. They are so poor
and narrow, that they cannot be enjoyed of more, without division, and the
dividing them cannot be without diminution of each man’s contentment, and
therefore men’s wishes ordinarily are stinted within their own
satisfaction and possession, and cannot without some restraint of reason
extend further to other men. But this is the vast difference between
spiritual things and bodily, eternal things and temporal, that there is no
man possessed of spiritual good, but he desires a community. It is as
natural upon the apprehension of them to enlarge the soul’s wishes to
other men, because there is such excellency, abundance, and solidity
discovered in them, as that all may be full, and none envy or prejudge
another. They are like the light that can communicate itself to all, and
that without diminution of its splendour. All may see it without prejudice
one to another. They are such an ocean that every one may fill their
vessel, and yet nothing less for them that come after. And therefore the
soul that wishes largely for itself, will not find that inward discontent
at the great abundance of another, which is the inseparable shadow of
earthly and temporal advantages. It is cross to men’s interest, that love
gain or preferment, or any such thing, that others grow rich, or are
advanced high in the world, for it intercepts what they desire. But it is
not at all the interest of a godly soul that others be worse than himself,
but rather the salvation and happiness of all men is that interest which
alone he espouses.

Now for this, my beloved, before we proceed further, you may find how the pulse of your souls
beats, and what your temper is, by considering what is the ordinary unrestrained and habitual
wishes of your hearts. Certainly as men are inclined so they affect, and so they desire, and
these unpremeditated desires that are commonly stirred up in the hearts of men, argue much
the inward temper and inclination of the heart, and give the best account of it. I think if
men would reflect upon themselves, they will find that earthly things are vain, while they
put on another beauty, and have a more magnificent representation in their minds, and so draw
after them the choicest of their affections, that they cannot spare much real affection for
spiritual things, which are apprehended more slightly and darkly, and make the lighter and
more superficial impression. But certainly this will be the most natural beating of a holy
heart and the ordinary breathing of it, to desire much of this spiritual treasure for themselves
and others. You know what the thoughts and discourses of merchants turn most upon. It is to
have good winds, fair weather, good markets, and all things that may facilitate gain, and husbandmen
wish for good seasons, timely showers, and dry harvests, that there may be plenty. And generally
what men’s hearts are set upon, that they go abroad fervently and incessantly in longing desires
after. Now truly this is the Christian’s inward motion, and this is his salutation, wherewith
he congratulateth others. “The God of hope fill you with all peace and joy in believing.” His
gain lies in another airth.(450) His plenty is expected from another field, and that is from
above, from the God of hope, the sweetest name (if all the rest be answerable) to be dealt
withal, either for gain or plenty, for it is hope that makes labour sweet, and if it answer
expectation then all is well. Therefore, in the sowing the seed of prayers and supplications,
with tears, for this harvest of joy, and in trafficking for this treasure of peace, it is good
that we have to do with the God of hope, who cannot make us ashamed; for he that soweth must
sow in hope, 1 Cor. ix. 10. And therefore, though we sow in tears, yet let us mingle hope therewith,
and the harvest shall be joy, and the plenty, affluence of peace in the Holy Ghost. Now if
we believed this, would not our sorrows be deep, and our labours sweet?

In the words you have read, there is the highest wish of a holy heart for himself and them
he loves best; that one desire, if he had no occasion ever to present himself to God, but once,
that he would certainly fall upon, or some such like, to be filled after this manner with all
peace and joy in believing. These are the fruits of the Spirit he desires to be filled with,
and feed upon,—peace as an ordinary meal, and joy as an extraordinary desert, or as a powerful
cordial; and to supply what here is wanting at present, the hope of what is to come, and that
in abundance. This is even an entertainment that a believer would desire for himself, and these
who have his best wishes, while he is in this world. He would despise the delicacies of kings,
and refuse their dainties, if he might sit at this table that is spread on the mountain of
God’s church, a full feast which fills the soul with peace, joy, and hope, as much as now it
is capable of. Now these precious fruits you see in the words show the root that brings them
forth, and the branch that immediately bears them. The root is the God of hope, and the power
of the Holy Ghost. And a soul being ingrafted as a living branch by faith into Christ, receives
virtue to bring forth such pleasant fruits, so that they grow immediately upon the branch of
believing, but the sap and virtue of both come from the Holy Ghost, and the God of hope. Or
to take it up in another like notion. This is the river which gladdeneth the city of God with
its streams, that waters the garden of the Lord with its threefold stream. For you see it is
parted in three heads, and every one of them is derived from another. The first in the order
of nature is peace,—a sweet, calm, and refreshing river, which sometimes overflows like the
river Nilus, and then it runs in a stream of joy, which is the high spring tide but ordinarily
it sends forth the comfortable stream of hope, and that in abundance. Now this threefold river
hath its original high, as high as the God of hope, and the power of the Holy Ghost, but the
channel of it is situated low, and it is believing in Christ.

To begin then with the first of these. Truly there is nothing can be spoken that sounds more
sweetly in the ears of men than peace and joy. They need nothing to commend them, for they
have a sufficient testimonial, and letters of recommendation written upon the affections of
all men. For what is it that all men labour and seek after but this? It is not any outward
earthly thing that is desired for itself, but rather for the peace and contentment the mind
expects in it. And therefore, this must be of itself the proper object or good of the soul,
which, if it can be had immediately, without that long and endless compass about the creatures,
certainly a man cannot but think himself happy, and will have no missing of other things, as
if a man could live healthfully and joyfully without meat, and without all appetite for it,
no doubt but he would think himself the happiest man in the world, and would think it no pain
to him to want the dainties of princes, but rather that he were delivered from the wearisome
necessity others laboured under. Just so is it here, there is nothing would persuade a man
to travel, and toil all his lifetime, about the creatures, and not to suffer his soul to take
rest, if he did believe to find that immediately without travel, which he endures so much travel
for. And therefore the believing Christian is only a wise man, who is instructed where the
things themselves, true peace and joy, do lie, and so seeks to be filled with the things themselves,
for which only men seek other things, and not as other men who catch at the shadows, that they
may at length find the substance itself, for this were far about, and labour in vain.

Peace is so sweet and comprehensive a word, that the Jews made their usual compellation, “Peace
be unto you,”(451) importing all felicity, and the affluence of all good. And indeed our Saviour
found no fitter word to express his matchless good-will to the well-being of his disciples
nor this (Luke xxiv. 36.), when he saluted them after his resurrection, “Peace be unto you,”
which is as much as if he had wished absolute satisfaction, all contentment and happiness that
themselves would desire. Now this peace hath a relation to God, to ourselves, and our brethren.
I will exclude none of them from the present wish; for even brotherly concord and peace suits
well with the main subject of this chapter, which is the bearing of our neighbours’ infirmities,
and not pleasing ourselves, and such like mutual duties of charity. But certainly the other
two relations are most intrinsic to happiness, because there is nothing nearer to us than the
blessed God; and next to him, there is nothing comes so near us as ourselves. The foundation
of all our misery, is that enmity between man and God, which is as if heaven and earth should
fall out into an irreconcilable discord, and upon that should follow the suspension of the
light of the stars, and the withdrawing of the influences of heaven, and the withholding the
refreshment of the early and latter rain. If such dissension fell between them, that the heavens
should be as brass to the earth, and would refuse the clouds when they cry for rain, or the
herbs and minerals when they crave the influences from above, what a desolate and irksome dwelling-place
would the earth be? What a dreary habitation would we find it? Even so it is between God and
men. All our being, all our well-being, hangs upon the good aspect of his countenance. In his
favour is all our life and happiness; yet since the first rebellion, every man is set contrary
to God, and in his affections and actions denounces war against heaven, whence hath flowed
the sad and woful suspension of all these blessings, and comfortable influences, which only
beautify and bless the soul of man. And now there is nothing to be seen but the terrible countenance
of an angry God, the revengeful sword of justice shaken in the word; all above us as if the
sun were turned into blackness, and the moon into blood, and behold trouble and darkness, and
dimness of anguish.

Now whenever a soul begins to apprehend his enmity and division in sad earnest, there follows
an intestine war in the conscience. The terrors of God raise up a terrible party within a man’s
self, and that is the bitter remembrance of his sins. These are mustered and set in order in
battle-array against a man, and every one of these, as they are thought upon, strike a dart
into his heart. They shoot an arrow dipped in the wrath of God, the poison whereof drinketh
up his spirit, Job vi. 4. Though the most part of souls have now a dead calm, and are asleep
like Saul in the field in the midst of his enemies, or as Jonas in the ship in the midst of
the tempest, yet when they awake out of that deep stupidity, God will write bitter things against
them, and make them to possess their iniquities; and they shall find that he hath numbered
their steps, and watched over their sin, and sealed it as in a bag, to be kept in record. Then
he will renew his witnesses against them, and put their feet in the stocks, and they shall
then apprehend that changes and war are against them, and that they are set as a mark against
God, and so they will be a burden to themselves, Job vii. 20.  What a storm will it raise in
the soul! Now to lay this tempest, and calm this wind, is the business of the gospel, because
it reveals these glad tidings of peace and reconciliation with God, which can only be the ground
of a perfect calm in the conscience. Herein is the atonement and propitiation set forth, that
which by its fragrant and sweet smell hath pacified heaven, and appeased justice; and this
only is able to pacify the troubled soul, and lay the tumultuous waves of the conscience, Eph.
ii. 13-20; Col. i. 19-22. This gives the answer of a good conscience, which is like the sweet
and gentle breathing of a calm day after a tempest, 1 Pet. iii. 21. Now it is not so much God
reconcileable to sinners, as God in Christ reconciling sinners to himself, 2 Cor. v. 19. Though
some men be always suspicious of God, yet they have more reason to suspect their own willingness.
For what is all the gospel but a declaration of his love, and laying down the enmity, or rather,
that he had never hostile affections to his elect, and so was all this while providing a ransom
for himself, and bringing about the way to kill the enmity? And having done that by the blood
of Christ, he will follow us with entreaties of reconcilement, and requests to lay down our
hostile affections, and the weapons of our warfare; and for him we have no more ado but to
believe his love, while we were yet enemies. This, I say, carried into the heart with power,
gives that sweet calm and pleasant rest to the soul, after all its tossings. This commands
the winds and waves of the conscience, and they obey it. It is true that many find no trouble
within, and some, upon terrible apprehensions of sin and wrath, find ease for the time in some
other thing, as a diversion to some other object, and turning aside with Cain to build cities,
to worldly pleasures, or employments, or company, that the noise of them may put the clamours
of their conscience to silence. Some parleys and cessations men have, some treaties of this
kind for peace with God; but alas! the most part make no entire and full peace. They are always
upon making the bargain, and cannot close it, because of their engagements to sin, and their
own corrupt lusts. And therefore many do nothing else than what men do in war, to seek some
advantage, or to gain time by their delays: but O the latter end will be sad, when he shall
arm you against yourselves! Were it not better, now while it is to-day, not to harden your
hearts? Now, joy is the effect of peace, and it is the very overflowing of it in the soul,
upon the lively apprehension of the love of God, and the inestimable benefit of the forgiveness
of sins. It is peace in a large measure, pressed down, and running over, breaking without the
ordinary channel, and dilating itself to the affecting and refreshing of all that is in man:
“My heart and my flesh shall rejoice.” This is the very exuberance and high sailing-tide of
the sea of peace that is in a believer’s heart. It swells sometimes upon the full aspect of
God’s countenance beyond the ordinary bounds, and cannot be kept within in gloriation and boasting
in God. When a soul is so illustrated with the Holy Ghost, as to make a kind of presence and
possession of what is hoped for, that makes the soul to enlarge itself in joy. This makes the
inward jubilation, the heart as it were to leap for joy. Now, truly this is not the ordinary
entertainment of a Christian. It is neither so universal nor constant as peace. These fruits
so matured and ripe, like the grapes of Canaan, are not set down always upon the table of every
Christian, nor yet at all to some. It is enough that he keep the soul in that healthful temper,
that it is neither quite cast down or discouraged through difficulties and infirmities. It
is sufficient if God speak peace to the soul, though it be not acquainted with these raptures
of Christianity. This hath so much sense in it, that it is not meet to be made ordinary food,
lest we should mistake our pilgrimage for heaven, and fall upon the building of tabernacles
in this mount. For certainly the soul would conclude it good to be here, and could not so earnestly
long for the city and country of heaven, if they had any more but some tastes of that joy to
sharpen their desires after the full measure of it. It is a fixed and unchangeable statute
of heaven, that we should here live by faith, and not by sense. And indeed, the following of
God fully, in the ways of obedience, upon the dim apprehensions of faith, is more praiseworthy,
and hath more of the true nature of obedience in it, than when present sweetness hath such
a predominant influence. Besides, our vessel here is weak and crazy, and most unfit for such
strong liquor as the joys of the Holy Ghost. Some liquors have such a strong spirit in them
that they will burst an ordinary bottle; and as our Saviour says, “No man puts new wine in
old bottles, for they will burst,” Matt. ix. 17. Truly the joy of heaven is too strong for
our old ruinous and earthly vessels to bear, till the body “put on incorruption,” and be fashioned
like unto Christ’s own glorious body; for it cannot be capable of all the fulness of this joy.
And yet there is a kind of all fulness of peace and joy in this life, “fill you with all joy
and peace.” Indeed the fulness of this life is emptiness to the next. But yet there is a fulness
in regard of the abundance of the world. Their joys and pleasures, their peace and contentation
in the things of this life, are but like “the crackling of thorns under a pot,” that makes
a great noise, but vanishes quickly in a filthy security, Eccles. vii. 6. It is such, that
like the loudest laughter of fools, there is sorrow at the heart, and in the end of it is heaviness,
Prov. xiv. 13. It is but at the best a superfice, an external garb drawn over the countenance,
no cordial nor solid thing. It is not heart joy, but a picture and shadow of the gladness of
the heart in the outward countenance; and whatever it be, sorrow, grief, and heaviness follow
at its heels, by a fatal inevitable necessity. So that there is this difference between the
joys and pleasures of the world, and dreams in the night; for the present there is more solidity,
but the end is hugely different. When men awake out of a dream, they are not troubled with
it, that their imaginary pleasure was not true. But the undivided companion of all earthly
joys and contentment is grief and vexation. I wonder if any man would love that pleasure or
contentment if he were assured to have an equal measure of torment after it, suppose the pain
of the stone, or such like. But when this misery is eternal, O what madness and folly is it
to plunge into it! “I said of laughter, It is madness, and of mirth, What doth it?” But the
Christian’s peace and joy is of another nature. Yet as no man knoweth the “hidden manna,” the
“new name,” and the “white stone,” but he that hath it, (Rev. ii. 17) so no man can apprehend
what these are, till he taste them and find them. What apprehension, think ye, can a beast
form of his own nature? Or what can a man conceive of the angelical nature? Truly this is without
our sphere and that without theirs. Now certainly the wisest and most learned men cannot form
any lively notion of the life of a Christian, till he find it. It is without his sphere and
comprehension, therefore it is called “the peace of God which passes all understanding,” (Phil.
iv. 7), a “joy unspeakable and full of glory,” 1 Pet. i. 8. Suppose men had never seen any
other light but the stars of the firmament, or the light of a candle, they could not conceive
any thing more glorious than the firmament in a clear night. Yet we that have seen the sun
and moon, know that these lights are but darkness unto them. Or, to use that comparison that
the Lord made once effectual to convert a nobleman, if a man did see some men and women dancing
afar off, and heard not their music, he would judge them mad, or at least foolish, but coming
near hand, and hearing their instruments, and perceiving their order, he changes his mind.
Even so, whatever is spoken of the joy of the Spirit, or the peace of conscience, and whatsoever
is seen by the world of abstaining from the pleasures of the world, the natural mind cannot
but judge it foolishness, or melancholy, because they do not hear that pleasant and sweet harmony,
and concert of the word and Spirit, in the souls of God’s children. Else if they heard the
sweet Psalmist of Israel piping, they could not but find an inward stirring and impulse m themselves
to dance too.

Now the third stream is hope, “that ye may abound in hope,” because this is not the time nor
place of possession. Our peace and joy here is often interrupted, and very frequently weakened.
It is not so full a table as the Christian’s desire requires. Our present enjoyments are not
able to mitigate the very pain of a Christian’s appetite, or to supply his emptiness. Therefore
there must be an accession of hope to complete the feast and to pacify the eagerness of the
soul’s desire, till the fulness of joy and peace come; and if he have spare diet otherwise,
yet he hath allowance of abundance of hope, to take as much of that as he can hold, and that
is both refreshing and strengthening. Truly there is nothing men have, or enjoy, that can please,
without the addition of hope unto it. All men’s eyes are forward to futurity, and often men
prejudice themselves of their present enjoyments, by the gaping expectation of, and looking
after things to come. But the Christian’s hope being a very sure anchor cast within the vail,
upon the sure ground of heaven, it keeps the soul firm and steadfast, though he be not unmoved,
yet from tossing or floating; though it may fluctuate a little, yet his hope regulates and
restrains it. And it being an helmet, it is a strong preservative against the power and force
of temptations. It is that which guards the main part of a Christian, and keeps resolutions
after God untouched and unmaimed.

Now, my beloved, would you know the fountain and original of these sweet and pleasant streams?
It is the God of hope, and the power of the Holy Ghost. There is no doubt of power in God,
to make us happy and give us peace. But power seems most opposite to peace, especially with
enemies and it seems whatsoever he can do, yet that his justice will restrain his power from
helping us. But there is no doubt but the God of power, as well as hope, both can and will
do it. He hath this style from his promises and gracious workings, because he hath given us
ground of hope in himself. He is the chief object of hope, and the chief cause of hope in us
too. Therefore we would look up to this fountain, for here all is to be found.

But I haste to speak a word of the third thing proposed, viz.: The channel that these streams
run into. It is believing, not doing. Indeed this stream once ran in this channel. But since
paradise was defaced, and the rivers that watered it turned another way, this hath done so
too. It is true, that righteousness and holy walking is a notable mean to preserve this pure,
and unmixed, and constant. For indeed the peace of our God will never lodge well with sin,
the enemy of God, nor can that joy, which is so pure a fountain, run in abundance in an impure
heart. It will not mix with carnal pleasures and toys. But yet the only ground of true peace
and joy is found out by believing in another. Whatsoever ye do else to find them, dispute and
debate never so long about them, toil all night and all day in your examinations of yourselves,
yet you shall not catch this peace,—this solid peace, and this surpassing joy, but by quite
overlooking yourselves and fixing your hearts upon another object, that is, Jesus Christ. “Peace
and joy in believing,” and what is that believing? Mistake it not. It is not particular application
at first. I delight rather to take it in another notion, for the cordial absent and consent
of the soul to the promises of the gospel. I say but one word more, viz.: meditation and deep
consideration of these truths is certainly believing, and believing brings peace, and peace
brings joy.

Sermon X.

    Matth. xi. 16.—“But whereunto shall I liken this generation?”

When our Lord Jesus, who had the tongue of the learned, and spoke as never man spake, did now
and then find a difficulty to express the matter herein contained. “What shall we do?” The
matter indeed is of great importance, a soul matter, and therefore of great moment, a mystery,
and therefore not easily expressed. No doubt he knows how to paint out this to the life, that
we might rather behold it with our eyes, than hear it with our ears, yet he uses this manner
of expression, to stamp our hearts with a deep apprehension of the weight of the matter, and
the depth of it. It concerns us all, as much as we can, to consider and attend unto it.

Two things are contained here. The entertainment Christ gets in the world, of the most part,
and, the entertainment he gets from a few children, of whom he is justified. I say, it concerns
you greatly to observe this,—for Christ observed it very narrowly,—what success both his forerunner
and himself had. Christ begins here to expostulate with the multitudes, and with the scribes
and Pharisees about it. But ere all be done he will complain to the Father. He now complains
unto you, that he gets not ready acceptance amongst you, if it be possible that you may repent
of the great injury done to the Son of God, no not so much to Christ, as your own souls, for
“all who hate me love death, and he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul,” Prov. viii.
36. Wo unto your souls, for you have not hurt Christ, by so much despising him. Ye have not
prejudiced the gospel, but ye have rewarded evil to yourselves, Isa. iii. 9. I say, Christ
now complains of you to yourselves, if so be you will bethink yourselves in earnest, and return
to yourselves, but if ye will not, he will at length complain to the Father. When he renders
up the kingdom, and gives an account of his administration unto God, he will report what entertainment
ye gave his word. For he will say, “I have laboured in vain, and spent my strength for nought
with such a man. All threatenings, all entreaties would not prevail with him to forsake his
drunkenness, his swearing, his covetousness, his oppressions,” &c. You know Christ’s last long
prayer, John xvii. He gives an account in it what acceptance he had among men, when he is finishing
his ministry. These are the men he now speaks unto in the text, “Whereunto shall I liken this
generation?” Thus he speaks of them to his Father. “O righteous Father, the world hath not
known thee, but I have known thee.” Well then, this is not so light a matter as ye apprehend.
Ye come to hear daily, but know ye not that ye shall give an account of your hearing? Know
ye not that there is one who observes and marks all the impressions which the word makes on
your consciences? He knows all the blows of the sword of the word, that returns making no impression
on your consciences. Christ says to the multitudes here, “And what went ye out for to see?”
I pray you what went ye out to see, seeing ye have not believed his report? Why went ye out
unto the wilderness? Know ye who spake, or in whose authority? May we not speak in these terms
unto you, when we consider the little fruit of the gospel? What do you come to see, and what
do ye come to hear every Sabbath, and other solemn days? I pray you ask at your own hearts,
what your purpose is. Wherefore do ye come together so often? Men are rational in their business.
They do nothing but for some purpose. They labour, and plough, and sow, in order to reap. They
buy and sell to get gain. They have many projects and designs they still seek to accomplish.
And shall we be only in matters of salvation and damnation so irrational? Shall we in the greatest
thing of the greatest moment, because of eternal concernment be as perishing brutish beasts,
that know not what we aim at? Christ will in the end ask you, what went ye out of your own
houses so often to hear? What went you out to see? I pray you what will ye answer? If ye say,
we went to hear the word of the Lord, then he shall answer you, and why did not ye obey it?
Then why did ye not hear it as my word, and regard it more? If ye shall say, we went to hear
a man speak some good words unto us for an hour or two, then is Christ also engaged against
you, because he sent him, and ye despise him, for he says, “He that despises me, despises him
that sent me,” so ye shall be catched both the ways. If ye think this to be God’s word, I wonder
why ye do not receive it, with the stamp of his authority in your hearts. Why do ye not bow
your hearts to it, for it shall endure for ever, and judge you? Why do you sit(452) so many
fair offers, so many sad warnings? Are not the drunkards warned every day by this word, that
the curse of the Lord shall come upon them? Is not every one of you, according to your several
stations and circumstances, warned to forsake your wicked ways, and your evil thoughts, to
flee from the wrath to come, before the decree of the Lord pass forth, and before his fury
burn as an oven? And if ye think these to be the true words of the eternal God, and the sayings
of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, and the truth itself, if ye believe it as ye profess
to do, why do ye not get out of the way of that wrath, which continues upon these sinners daily?
Shall ye escape the judgment of God? Shall not his word overtake you though ministers that
speak unto you will not live for ever? But these words they speak will surely take hold of
you, as they did your fathers, so that ye shall say, “Like as the Lord of hosts hath said he
will do unto us, so hath he done,” Zech. i. 6. If ye do not think this is God’s word, I beseech
you, why do you come hither so oft? What do ye come to hear? Why take ye so much needless pains?
Your coming here seems to speak that ye think it to be God’s word and yet your conversation
declares more plainly that ye believe it not. Yet Christ takes notice of you and O that ye,
beloved, would search yourselves that so ye might hear the word as in the sight of the all
seeing God, and in his sight, who will judge you according to it; a sermon thus heard, would
be more profitable than all that ever ye heard. Now to what purpose speak we of these things
unto you, and why do we choose this discourse, when ye expect to hear public things? I will
tell you the reason of it. Because I conceive this is the great sin of the times, and the most
reprehensive and fountain sin, the root of all our profanity and malignity, even this which
Christ points out in this similitude. The great blessing and privilege of Scotland is the gospel.
Ye all must grant this. Now, then, the great misery and sin of this nation is, the abuse and
contempt of the glorious gospel, and if once we could make you sensible of this, ye would mourn
for all other particular sins.

The words are very comprehensive. Ye shall find in them the different manifestations of God
in his word, reduced to two heads. The Lord either mourns to us to make us mourn, or joys to
us to make us dance. A similitude and likeness is the end of all the manifestations of himself,
that we be one with him. Therefore when he would move our affections in us, he puts on the
like, and clothes himself, in his word and dispensation, with such a habit as is suitable.
So ye have both law and gospel. He laments in the one, he pipes in the other. Both sad and
glad dispensations of his providence may be subordinate to these; the one, I mean his judgments,
representing that to our eyes which his law did to our ears, making that visible of his justice,
which we heard; the other, I mean mercies, represents that to our eyes, which the gospel did
to our ears, making his good will, his forbearance, and long suffering, and compassion visible,
that men might say, “As we have heard so have we seen in the city of our God.” Now these should
stir up suitable affections in men. This is their intendment and purpose, to stir up joy and
grief, sorrow for sin, on the one hand, and joy in the Lord’s salvation on the other hand;
hatred of sin by the one, and the love of Christ by the other.

But what is the entertainment(453) these get in the world? Ye shall see it different. In some
it meets with different affections, or it makes them, and moves them, and these do justify
wisdom. The accomplishment and performance of God’s purposes, in the salvation of souls, justifies
his word. They justify Christ by believing in him; Christ justifies us, by making us to believe
in him, and applying his own righteousness to us. He that believes justifies the word, and
Christ in the word, because he sets to his seal that God is true; and Christ likewise justifies
the believer, by applying his righteousness unto him. The believer justifies wisdom, by acknowledging
it as the Father’s wisdom; Christ justifies the believer by making him and pronouncing him
righteous, and a son of God. But in others, and in these a great many, it generally meets with
hard hearts, stupid and insensible, incapable of these impressions. You know music is very
apt to work upon men’s spirits, and doth stir up several passions in them, as joy or grief.
Now Christ and his ministers are the musicians that do apply their songs to catch men’s ears
and hearts, if so be they may stop their course and not perish. These are blessed Sirens(454)
that do so, and pipe, day and night, in season and out of season, some sad and woful ditties
of men’s sin and God’s wrath, of the day of judgment, of eternal punishment, that if it be
possible, men may fore-apprehend these ills, before they fall into them without recovery. These
are the boys in the market places that strive to sadden your hearts, and make you lament in
time, before the day of howling, and weeping, and gnashing of teeth. These also have as many
joyful and glad ditties, sweetening the sad. It may be, diverse men have diverse parts of this
harmony. John had the woful and sad part, Christ took the joyful and glad part; so the one
answered the other, and both made a complete harmony. It may be, one man in one spring mixes
these two, and makes good music alone. The one part is intended to move men to grief, and mourn
once, that they may not mourn for ever; the other to comfort in the meantime these that mourn,
to mix their mourning with their hope of that blessed delivery in Jesus Christ. Now what is
the entertainment these get from the most part? They can neither move men to one affection
nor another; they will neither mourn nor dance. As the children complain of some rude and rustic
spirits, that are uncapable of music, and cannot discern one spring(455) from another, so does
Christ complain of a generation of men, they can neither repent nor believe, they care for
none of these things. His threatenings and denunciations of wrath are a small thing to them,
and his consolations appear also to be inconsiderable. Then souls are otherwise taken up, that
they have no sense to discern the transcendent excellency of eternal things. We would then
press upon your consciences these three things. First, That the word of God comprehending the
law and gospel, contains both the saddest ditties and the most joyful and sweet songs in the
world. Next, We would discover unto you the great sin, and extreme stupidity of this generation,
of which ye are a part, that ye may know the controversy God hath with the land. And then at
length, we would labour to persuade you to the right use of this gospel, and justifying of
wisdom, if ye would be his children.

The law is indeed a sad song and lamentation, it surpasses all the complaints and lamentations
among men. Ye know the voice in which it was given at Sinai. It was delivered with great thunders,
great terrors accompanied it. The law is a voice of words and thunder, which made these that
heard it entreat that it should not be spoken to them any more; for they could not endure the
word that was commanded, Heb. xii. 18, 19. Ye would think if they were holy men, they would
not be afraid of it, but so terrible was that sight, and that voice, that it even made holy
Moses himself exceedingly fear and quake. It made a great host, more numerous than all the
inhabitants of Scotland, to tremble exceedingly. And why was it so sad and terrible? Even because
it was a law that publishes transgression, for “by the law is the knowledge of sin.” If there
were no fear of judgment and wrath, yet I am sure there is none that can reasonably consider
that excellent estate in which he was once, that throne of eminency above the creatures, that
height of dignity in conformity and likeness to God, that incomparable happiness of communion
with the supreme Fountain of life; none I say, none can duly ponder these things, but they
will think sin to be the greatest misery of mankind. They must be affected with the sense of
that inestimable treasure they lost. And how sad a consideration is it to view that cloud of
beastly lusts, of flesh and earth, that was interposed between the Sun of righteousness, and
our souls, which hath made this perpetual eclipse, this eternal night and darkness! How sad
is it to look upon our ruin, and compare it with that stately edifice of innocent Adam! How
are we fallen from the height of our excellency, and made lower than the beasts, when we were
once but a little lower than the angels! But then if ye shall consider all that followed upon
this the innumerable abominations of men, so contrary to that holy law and God’s holiness,
that hath flowed from this corrupt fountain, and hath defiled so many generations of men, that
they are all bruises and putrified sores, and in nothing sound from the head to the foot,—the
soul within becomes the sink of all pollution, the members without the conduits it runs through,
and weapons of unrighteousness against our Maker. And what a consideration is this alone, how
vile and ugly doth that holy and spiritual law make the most refined and polished civilian?
He that hath poorest naturals,(456) most extracted from the dregs of the multitude, oh how
abominable will he appear in this glass, in this perfect law of liberty! So that men would
despise themselves, and repent in dust and ashes, if once they did see their own likeness.
Ye would run from yourselves as children that have been taken up with their own beauty, but
are spoiled with the small pox. Let them look unto a glass, and it will almost make them mad.
But if we shall stay, and hear out the trumpet which sounds louder and louder, there will be
yet more reason of trembling. It speaks much of all men’s sins “that every mouth may be stopped,”
but the voice waxed louder and louder, the spring grows still sadder, that “all the world may
become guilty before God,” Rom. iii. 19. It publishes first the command, and then follows the
sad and weighty curse of God. “Cursed is every one that abides not in all things which are
written in the law,” (Gal. iii. 10) as many curses as breaches of the law. And what a dreadful
song is this! If he had said, ye shall be eternally banished from God, what an incomparable
loss had this been? Men would lead an unpleasant life, who had fallen from the expectation
of an earthly kingdom, but what shall it be to fall from the expectation of a heavenly kingdom?
But when withal there is an eternal pain with that eternal loss, and an incomparable pain with
incomparable loss, everlasting destruction from God’s presence, joined with this, always to
be destroyed, and never to be made an end of! It is the comfort of bodily torments, and even
of death itself, that it shall be quickly gone, and the destruction ends in the destruction
of the body, and so there is no more pain. But here is an eternal destruction,—not a dying,
and then a death, but an eternal dying without tasting death. Now consider (if ye can indeed
think) what it is to have a law of enmity, and a hand writing of ordinances against us, as
many curses written up in God’s register against us, as there were transgressions of the law
multiplied and God himself engaged to be against us, to have no mercy on us, and not to spare
us! Could any heart endure, or any hands be strong, if they would duly apprehend this? Would
the denunciation of war, the publishing of affliction, the sentence of earthly judges, would
they once be remembered beside this? If ye would imagine all the torments and rackings that
have been found out by the most cruel tyrants against men, all to be centred in one, and all
the grief and pain of these who have died terrible deaths, to be joined in one, what would
it be to this! It would be but as a drop of that wrath and vexation that wicked souls find
in hell, and are drowned into, and that everlastingly without end.

But we must not dwell always at mount Sinai. We are called to mount Zion, the city of the living
God, to hear a sweet and calm voice of peace, to hear the sweet and pleasant songs of the sweet
Psalmist of Israel, and of our glorious Peacemaker, Christ Jesus, the desire of all nations,
and the blessing of all the families of the earth. His song is a joyful sound, and blessed
are they that hear it. I am come, says Christ, “to seek and to save that which was lost.” I
am come to save sinners, and the chief of sinners. Let all these who find their spirits saddened
by the terrible law, or who find themselves accursed from the Lord, and cannot be justified
by the law of Moses, come unto me. Cast your souls upon me, and ye shall find ease to them.
Are ye pressed under the heavy burden of sin and wrath? Come unto me, and I will give you ease.
Put it over upon me. Do ye think yourselves not wearied nor burdened enough, and yet ye would
be quit of sin and misery? Do your souls desire to embrace this salvation? Come unto me, and
I will not cast you out. Whoever comes, on whatsoever terms, in whatsoever condition, I will
in no case cast you out. Do not suppose cases to exclude yourselves. I know no case. Ye who
cannot be justified by the law of Moses, come unto me, and ye shall be justified “from all
things from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses.” Ye who have no righteousness
of your own, and see the righteousness of God revealed with wrath against you, now come to
me, I have a righteousness of God, beside the law, and will reveal it to you. Ye have a band
of enmity, and handwriting of ordinances against you, but come unto me, for I have cancelled
it in the cross, and slain the enmity, so it shall never do you any harm. In a word, this is
the messenger whose feet are beautiful, that publishes glad tidings of peace. This is the Mediator,
who reconciles us unto God. The whole gospel and covenant of grace is a bundle of precious
promises. It is a set of pleasant melodious songs, that may accompany us through our wearisome
pilgrimage, and refresh us till we come unto the city, where we shall all sing the song of
the Lamb. What a song is liberty to captives and prisoners, light to them that sit in darkness,
opening of the eyes to the blind, gladness of spirit to those who are heavy in spirit! Ye would
all think salvation and remission of sins a sweet song. But if ye would discern it, ye would
find nothing sweeter in the gospel than this redemption from all iniquity, from sin itself,
and from all kind of misery. How lovely and pleasant a thing is that! When Christ hath piped
unto you the remission of all sins in his own blood, then he plays the most sweet spring, the
renunciation of sin, and dying to this world, by his death and resurrection. Many listen to
the song of justification, but they will not abide to hear out all the song. He is our sanctification
and redemption, as well as our righteousness. Always to whomsoever he is pleasant, when he
puts his yoke upon them, he will be more pleasant in bearing it. Whosoever gladly hears Jesus
singing of righteousness and holiness, they shall also hear him sing of glory and happiness.
Those who dance at the springs of righteousness and sanctification, what an eternal triumph
and exultation waits on them, when he is singing the song of complete redemption!

Are these things so? Is this the law, and this the gospel? Do they daily sound in our ears,
and what entertainment, I pray you, do they get from this generation? Indeed, Christ’s complaint
hath place here, whereunto shall our generation be likened? For he hath lamented to us and
we have not mourned; he hath piped to us, and we have not danced. We will neither be made glad
nor sad by these things. How long hath the word of the Lord been preached unto you, and whose
heart trembled at it? Shall the lion roar, and the beasts of the field not be afraid? The lion
hath roared often to us. God hath spoken often, who will not fear? And yet who doth fear? Shall
a trumpet be blown in the city, in congregations every day, that terrible trumpet of Mount
Sinai that proclaims war between God and men, and yet will not the people be afraid? Amos iii.
6, 8. Have not every one of you heard your transgressions told you? Are ye not guilty of all
the breaches of God’s holy law? Hath not the curse been pronounced against you for these, and
yet who believes the report? Ye will not do so much as to sit down and examine your own guiltiness,
till your mouth be stopped and till ye put it in the dust before God’s justice. And when we
speak of hell unto you, and of the curses of God passed upon all men, you bless yourselves
in your own eyes, saying, peace, peace, even though ye walk in the imagination of your own
hearts, add sin to sin, and “drunkenness to thirst,” Deut. xxix. 20. Now, when all this is
told you, that many shall be condemned and few saved, and that God is righteous to execute
judgment and render vengeance on you, ye say within yourselves, For God’s sake, is all this
true? But where is the mourning at his lamentations, when there is no feeling or believing
them to be true? Your minds are not convinced of the law of God, and how shall your hearts
be moved? Christ Jesus laments unto you, as he wept over Jerusalem, “How often would I have
gathered thee, and thou wouldst not!” What means he? Certainly, he would have you to sympathize
with your own condition. When he that is in himself blessed, and needs not us, is so affected
with our misery, how should we sympathize with our own misery! God seems to be affected with
it, though there be no shadow of turning in him. Yet he clothes his words with such affections,
“Why will ye die?” “O that my people had hearkened unto me!” He sounds the proclamation before
the stroke, if it be possible to move you to some sense of your condition, that concerns you
most nearly. Yet who judges himself that he may not be judged? The ministers of the Lord, or
Christians, may put to their ear, and hearken to men in their retiring places, but who repents
in dust and ashes, and says, “What have I done?” Jer. viii. 6. But every man goes on in his
course without stop. The word ye hear on the Sabbath day against your drunkenness, your oppressions,
your covetousness, your formality, &c., it doth not lay any bands on you to keep you from these
things. Long may we hearken to you in secret, ere we hear many of you mourn for these things,
or turn from them. Where is he that is afraid of the wrath of God, though it be often denounced
against him? Do not men sleep over their time, and dream of escaping from it? Every man hath
a refuge of lies he trusts in, and will not forsake his sins.

Again, on the other hand, whose heart rejoices within them to hear the joyful sound? Because
men do not receive the law, and mourn when he laments, they cannot receive the gospel. It cannot
be glad news to any but the soul that receives sad tidings, the sentence of death in its bosom.
Therefore Christ Jesus is daily offered and as often despised, as a thing of nought, and of
no value. Ye hear every day of deliverance from eternal wrath, and a kingdom purchased unto
you, and ye are no more affected, than if we came and told you stories of some Spanish conquest,
that belonged not unto you. Would not the ears and hearts of some men be more tickled with
idle and unprofitable tales, that are for no purpose but driving away the present time, than
they are with this everlasting salvation? Some men have more pleasure to read an idle book,
than to search the holy scriptures, though in them this inestimable jewel of eternal life be
hid. The vain things of this present world have a voice unto you of pleasure, and profit, and
credit. They will pipe unto you, and ye will listen unto their sound, but ye know not that
the dead are there, and that it is the way to the chambers of hell. These indeed are Sirens(457)
that entice passengers by the way with their sweet songs, and having allured them to follow,
lead them to perishing. Here is the voice that is come down from heaven, the “Word that was
with God,” and he is “the way, the truth, and the life.” He is gone before you, and undertakes
to guide you. He comes and calls upon simple men. The Father’s Wisdom calls the simple ones
to understand wisdom, to find life and peace. Will ye then so far wrong your own souls as to
refuse it? And yet the most part are so busied with this world and their own lusts, that the
sweetest and pleasantest offers in the gospel sound not so sweet unto them as the clink of
their money, or the sound of oil and wine in a cup. Any musician would affect them more than
the sweet singer of Israel, the anointed of the God of Jacob. Always(458) these souls that
have mourned and danced according to Christ’s motions, and whose hearts have exulted within
them at the message and word of reconciliation,—blessed are ye. Ye are of another generation,
children of wisdom, ye who desire to hear his voice. “Let me hear thy voice.” O thou that dwellest
in the gardens, the companions hear thy voice, “for thy voice is sweet, and thy countenance
is comely.” If this be the voice of thy heart, blessed art thou. Thou mayest indeed dance,
who hath rejoiced in his salvation, or who hath mourned at his lamentation, thy dancing is
but yet coming, for his piping is but yet coming. When all the companies of wisdom’s children
shall be gathered together in that general assembly of the first born, Christ Jesus, the head
of all principalities, and in special the head of the body the church, shall lead the ring,
and there shall be eternal praises and songs of those that follow the Lamb. They shall echo
into him, who shall begin that song of the hallelujah, Salvation, blessing, honour, glory,
and power to the Lamb, &c.

Now, whereunto shall this generation be likened, that are not affected with these things? What
strange stupidity and senselessness is it, that men are not affected with things of so great
and so near concernment? It would require the art of men to express the obstinacy of some Christian
professors, or rather a pen steeped in hell. He would be thought unnatural that would not grieve
at his friend’s death or loss. And what shall they be called that will not sympathize with
themselves, that is, their souls? If we speak to you of corporal calamities, and ye could not
be moved, it were great stupidity. But what stupidity is it, that men will not consider their
own souls? What shall ye profit, if ye lose your precious souls, and be cast away? It is the
greatest loss that is told you, and the greatest gain. Your affections are moved with perishing
things, every thing puts them up or down, and casts the balance with you. What deep ignorance
and inconsideration is it, that ye who can mourn for loss of goods, of children, of health,
of friends, that ye cannot be moved to sorrow for the sin of your soul, for the eternal loss
of your soul! Other sorrows cannot profit you, but this is the only profitable mourning. If
ye were told your sin and misery, to make you despair and mourn eternally, ye had some excuse
to delay, and forget it as long as ye can. But when all this is told you, that you may escape
from it, will ye not consider it? When ye are desired to mourn, that ye may be comforted for
ever, will ye not mourn? We would have you to anticipate the day of judgment, that ye may judge
yourselves, and then ye shall not be judged. What folly and madness is this to delay it till
endless, irremediless mourning come, a day that hath no light mixed with darkness! Those that
now mourn at that law, and for their sin, and dance at the promises of the gospel, may well
be called children of wisdom, and O how may this generation be said to be begotten of foolishness,
as their father, and wildness, as their mother! For is there any such folly as this, to lose
a man’s self absolutely and irrecoverably, for that which they cannot have always? Is there
any such folly as to refuse this healing medicine, for the little bitterness which is in it,
and then to incur eternal death?

Now what should we do then? What doth the word of God call you to do? This is it, to mourn
and rejoice, and this is to justify wisdom. These two are the pulse of a Christian. According
as he finds his grief and joy, so is he. All of you have these affections, but they are not
right placed. They are not pitched upon suitable objects. The worldling hath no other joy but
carnal mirth, no other grief but that which is carnal, these are limited within the bounds
of time. Some loss, or some gain, some pleasure or pain, some honour or dishonour, these are
the poles all his affections turn about on. Now then we exhort and beseech you, as ye would
flee from the wrath to come, consider it now and fear it. As ye would not partake with this
untoward generation in their plagues, so be not like them in their stupidity.

Ye are called to consider your sins and God’s wrath, that ye may turn unto the Lord, and then
you will hear the voice of peace crying unto thee, “Be of good comfort, thy sins are forgiven
thee.” If ye submit unto the justice of God, or unto the holiness and righteousness of his
law in condemning you, you justify wisdom in part, but ye who have justified wisdom thus far,
do not condemn wisdom after it. Justify the gospel, in believing upon Jesus Christ. Receive
it as a true and faithful saying with your hearts, and this shall justify you. And if ye justify
the wisdom of God in prescribing the righteousness of Christ unto you, ye will also justify
wisdom in prescribing a rule of holiness and obedience unto you, and count all his paths pleasantness
and peace. Ye must dance at the commandments, as well as the promises, because all God’s precepts
are really promises. Ye have nothing to do but to believe them as the way, and then to dance
until ye all sing the song of the Lamb with the saints above.

Now if ye believe his law and gospel, and be suitably affected with these, ye are led also
to sympathize with all the dispensations of his providence. Doth God lament to you in his works
as well as his word? O then, Christians, we exhort you to mourn. Yet mourning because of his
lamentable providence, should be joined with rejoicing in his word. “God hath spoken in his
holiness, I will rejoice.” We are a stupid generation, that can neither see, nor hear, neither
can we be affected with what we see, nor hear. Do not his judgments go forth as a lamp that
burneth, yet who considers? Doth not the lion roar, but who is afraid? Is there not a voice
publishing affliction? Hath not God’s rod a loud voice, and yet who hears it? Who fears? We
do not receive agreeable impressions of the Lord’s dealing with us, but every man puts the
day of evil far from him. He will not apprehend public rods, till they become personal, and
therefore they must become personal. If ye were mourning in a penitent manner, as a repenting
soul laments, would not our fast days have more soul affliction attending them? If ye did dance
as God pipes in his providence, would not our solemn feasts have more soul rejoicing, and heavenly
mirth? Alas for that deep sleep that has fallen upon so many Christians! How few stir up themselves
to take hold upon God, though he hides his face, and threateneth to depart from us? For the
Lord is with you while ye are with him; if ye seek him, and feareth for him with all your heart,
you will find him, but if ye forsake him he will forsake you.

Sermon XI.

[It is extremely probable that this was one of the probationary discourses which the author
delivered before the Presbytery of Glasgow, previous to his ordination. The following is an
extract from the Record of that Presbytery: “Dec. 5, 1649. The qlk daye Mr. Hew Binnen made
his popular sermon 1 Tim. i. ver. 5 ‘The end of ye commandment is charity.’—Ordaines Mr. Hew
Binnen to handle his controversie this day fifteen dayes, De satisfactione Christi.”—Ed.]

    1 Tim. ii. Paul
almost in all his epistles, sets himself against legal preachers, and
false teachers. It was a common error in the primitive times, to confound
the law and grace, in the point of righteousness, or to make free
justification inconsistent with the moral law. Therefore our apostle makes
it his chief study to vindicate the doctrine of the gospel. He preaches
the gospel, and yet is not Antinomian. He preaches the law, and yet is no
legal preacher. He exalts Christ more than the Antinomian can do, and yet
he presses holiness more than the mere legalist can do. He excludes the
law in the point of justification and pardon, and then brings it in again
to the justified man’s hand. If these words were rightly understood, and
made use of, it would put an end to the many useless controversies of the
present time, and reform many of our practices.

There are as many practical abuses among Christians concerning the law and the gospel, as there
are speculative errors among other sects. In the former verse, he more particularly directs
him what to take a care of, that men may neither spend their own, or their neighbour’s time,
in foolish, unnecessary, or impertinent questions, that tend nothing to the edification of
the body of Christ, or in building them up in our most holy faith, the doctrine of Christ Jesus,
and faith in it. And in this verse, he shows the true meaning and purpose of the law, and commandment,
when he meets these doctors, and draws an argument against them from their own doctrine. They
boasted of the law, and were counted very zealous of it, but as it is said of the Jews, they
had a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge, because they did not submit unto the righteousness
of God. They were also zealous for the commandment, but neither God nor the commandment would
give them thanks. Why? Because they wholly mistake and pervert the meaning and purpose of the
law. As long as they make the law inconsistent with the gospel, or would mix it with it, in
the point of justification, they do it not unto edification in faith (as it is read), and as
they ought to do, verses 4, 5, 6. We think this evangelic sentence, but rawly,(459) yea, legally
exponed by many, when they look upon the words as they lie here, “the end of the commandment
is love,” for love worketh no evil, and is the fulfilling of the whole law, and this love is
described to be pure and sincere, by the following properties. But we conceive the main business
is not to describe love, or to oppose this unto their contentions about trifling questions.
We choose rather to understand the text another way, according to the order of nature, which
also the words themselves give ground for, “The end of the commandment is love out of a pure
heart,” out “of faith unfeigned.” So then, according to the phraseology and meaning of the
words, love is not first, but faith must be first, and primarily intended, so that the sense
of the words is this, The end of the commandment is unfeigned faith, from whence flows a good
conscience, a pure heart, and love, or the end of the commandment is faith, which is proved
unfeigned by these effects, that it gives the answer of a good conscience, it purifies the
heart, worketh by love, the effect of faith which is love, being to our knowledge more sensible
than faith itself. We think it then more native(460) to make a pure heart, and love, marks
of unfeigned faith, than faith and a good conscience the marks of love. This exposition is
yet more confirmed by parallel places, Rom. x. 4, “The end of the law is Christ for righteousness,
unto them that believe.” This is most principally intended, and even before love. Now it is
all one to speak of faith as to speak of Christ. For faith and Christ are inseparably joined,
and faith comes not as a consideration in the gospel, abstracted from Christ the object of
it, as some enemies of Christ affirm. It justifies us not as an act or work, but as an instrument,
whereby we apprehend Christ and his righteousness. For faith abstracted from Christ is but
an empty notion, and among the dung and loss that Paul would quit to be found in Christ, Phil.
iii. 7-9. Now this sense only fits the scope and purpose, and leads on strongly against the
false teachers. When Paul brings his argument from the law, which they defended against the
gospel, they made the commandment to contradict the gospel. Paul makes the commandment to contradict
them, and agree with the gospel, and to be so far from disagreeing with it, that it hath a
great affinity with it as the mean to the end as that which is unperfect, without its own complement
and perfection. Faith in Jesus Christ alone for salvation, quieting a man’s conscience, is
the very intent of the law, and the command was never given since Adam, to justify men by obedience
to it, but to pursue men after Christ. And to satisfy you more fully, and clear it up he says,
though the end of the command be not to justify, but to pursue a man from it to Christ, yet
the command suffers no prejudice by this means, but rather is established by faith, the end
of it, because this faith persuades the heart, and makes a man obey out of love to God, whereas
before it should never have gotten any obedience, while men sought salvation by it.

You see then, there is an admirable harmony and consent between these things that are set at
variance, both in the opinion and practice of the times. For what seems more contrary than
the cursing commanding law, and the absolving promising gospel? Yet here they are agreed. Doth
not justice go cross to mercy in the ordinary notion? Yet here there is a friendly subordination
of justice to mercy, of the law to the gospel. Behold how faith is environed with the law,
commanding and cursing on the one hand, and obedience to the command on the other hand, how
faith is the middle party. A good conscience could never meet with the command since Adam’s
fall. A pure heart, and the obedience of love, had casten out(461) with the command, but here
is the union, the meeting of old friends. Faith is the mediator, as it were, and the gospel
comes between them, and so they dare meet again. Christ Jesus, who is our peace to make two
one, comes in the middle, and takes away the difference. The law never meets with an obedient
servant, or friend, till it meet first with Christ. It can find none righteous in all the world,
none upright. Here you have the law’s command and curse reconciled with the gospel’s promise,
and absolution reconciled with new obedience unto the command, the command leading to Christ,
and Christ leading the man just back again to the command, the command serving Christ’s design,
and Christ serving the command. And this is the round that the believer shall go about in,
until sin shall be no more. He shall be put over from one hand to another, till Christ shall
be all in all. The command shall put him to Jesus, and Christ shall lead him back again, under
a new notion, to his old master.

We may consider in the text a twofold relation that faith stands in, the relation of an end,
and of a cause. Faith hath the relation of an end unto the commandment, of a cause unto a good
conscience and a pure heart, and love, for these are said to be out of faith, which notes this
dependence of a cause and fountain. The command is for faith, and a pure heart and love are
from faith. We shall use no other division but consider the method of these effects that flow
from faith. There is an order of emanation and dependence. There is a chain here. The first
link nearest faith is a good conscience. The second link is a pure heart. The third is love,
the hand follows the heart, and the heart follows the conscience.

We need not be subtile in seeking our purpose on these words, we think there is more in the
plain words than we can speak of. We shall only resolve the verse in these propositions, without
more observations. First, Faith in Jesus Christ is the end of the commandment, or law. Secondly,
There is a faith feigned, and a faith unfeigned, a true and a false faith. Thirdly, Unfeigned
faith gives the answer of a good conscience. Fourthly, Faith purging the conscience, purifies
the heart. Fifthly, Faith purifying the heart, works by love. Here then is the substance of
all the gospel, and all this makes up an entire complete end. Faith purifying the heart, purging
the conscience, and working by love, is the end of the commandment.

First, The end of the commandment or law (for a part is put for the whole) is faith in Christ
or Jesus Christ apprehended by faith, which is all one. For ye cannot abstract faith from Christ,
for the whole gospel is a shadow without him. Grace and glory is but a beam of the Sun of righteousness,
that if ye come between it and Christ, it evanishes presently, Rom. x. 4, “Christ is the end
of the law for righteousness to every one that believes.” And if Christ be the end of the law,
then faith is the end of it, because faith is the profession of Christ, and union with him.
But consider, I. That the end is not taken here for the consumption or destruction of a thing.
Christ is not the end of the law in that sense, though indeed, if the Antinomian speak ingenuously,
his sense would be this, Christ makes an end of the law, contrary to Christ’s own express meaning,
“I came not to destroy the law but to fulfil it,” Matt. v. 17. II. The end is either the intention
or scope of a thing, the original word imports both. III. There is an end principally and directly
intended in the thing, or work itself, and an end adventitious, and of the work. We may speak
either of the end the law, of its own nature, is ordained unto, or the end of the Lawgiver
in promulgating the law. These may be different. Next, concerning the law, consider, I. That
the law may be taken strictly in a limited sense, as it comprehends only the command, and the
promise of life, and the curse on the breach of it, and in this sense, it is frequently taken
in Paul’s epistles to the Romans, and Galatians, and opposed to faith and the gospel, as the
gospel contains promises of salvation to penitent sinners. Or, II. It may, or useth to be so
extended, as to comprehend all the administrations made under Moses, or all God’s mind revealed
under the Old Testament; now, in this sense, it comprehends the gospel, and covenant of grace
in it, as we shall hear. Faith in Christ is the intention and scope of the law. Indeed, faith
in Jesus is not the intention of the law itself, as it is only made up of commandments, promises,
and curses. For the law as it commands, hath nothing to do, but to be a rule and obligation
to men, and as it curses, it condemns men, and speaks nothing of Jesus Christ, or a way to
make up the breach of the law. The gospel is not contained in the law, but rather accidental
to it. For Jesus Christ comes with the gospel, as if some unexpected cautioner would come in,
when the Judge is, as the angel that held Abraham’s hand,—when he was to slay his son, and
offer him up a burnt offering,—giving sentence to deliver him. It is an exception from the curse.

But Christ is directly intended and pointed out by the law. If ye consider the whole administration
of Moses, that is, the law and covenant of works, though it was preached after the fall, yet
it was never preached alone without the gospel, and so if ye consider the whole administration
of God’s mind and ordinances, Christ is principally aimed at. For, 1. The doctrine Moses delivered
in mount Sinai contained a covenant of grace. If you look to the preface of the ten commandments,
it is even the chief gospel promise, and article of the covenant. For how could God come to
terms with men after sin, but in terms of grace? and on no other terms can man stand before
God, nor God be his God. And likewise, seeing the gospel was preached in paradise, and afterwards
to Abraham, God could not be false in his promise made to Abraham, neither could the promulgation
of the law that followed make that null which went before, Gal. iii. 17. What meant all the
ceremonial law? It shadowed out Jesus Christ, the only sacrifice and propitiation. And this
is the sum of the gospel salvation to penitents believing in Christ, and looking through the
sacrifices unto him, and thus David’s righteousness was the imputation of righteousness, and
not inherent holiness, Psal. xxxii. 1, 2; Rom. iv. 5. But 2. It used to be a question, whether
the law delivered upon mount Sinai was a covenant of works or not. Some say, that the law which
was delivered upon mount Sinai was indeed a covenant of works, though they confess it was preached
with the covenant of grace, and not delivered to them to stand by it or of intention to get
righteousness by it, but to be subservient to the covenant of grace. Others speak absolutely
that the law upon mount Sinai was a covenant of grace. We conceive this is but a contention
about words. The matter is clear in itself, (1) That neither is now the gospel preached without
the law, as ye may see in Christ’s sermon upon the mount, and his sermon to the young man,
(Matt. chapters v., vi., vii., Mark x. 17,) nor yet was then the law preached without the gospel,
as ye may see in Exod. chap. xx. The preface to the commandments, and the second command contains
much of the gospel in them. Deut. xxx. 6, 7, &c., compared with Rom. x. 6, &c., where Paul
notes both the righteousness of faith and of the works of the law. (2) Those who say the law
on mount Sinai was a covenant of works, do not assert that God gave it to be a covenant of
works, out of intention that men should seek salvation thereby, but they make it only a schoolmaster
to lead us unto Christ, and to discover our sinful condition; and those who say it was a covenant
of grace, consider it in relation to God’s end of sending it, and as it takes in all the administration
and doctrine of Moses. So there needs be no difficulty here. The matter seems clear, that the
covenant of works was preached by Moses, and so it was by Paul, (Rom. x., Gal. iii.) and that
neither Paul nor Moses preached the covenant of works, but as a broken covenant; not as such
that men could stand unto, or be saved by. No man can preach the gospel, unless he preach the
covenant of works; not because both concur to the justification of a sinner, but because the
knowledge of a man’s own lost condition under the one, presses him to flee to the other.

Now I say, Christ Jesus, or faith in him, is the scope and intention of the law. It is the
scope and intention of the lawgiver, in giving out the law. God hath never given a command
or curse since Adam’s fall, but for this end, to bring sinners unto Christ. This is the end
revealed, and appointed by him in his word. This we shall clear from some texts of scripture,
because it is very material, Rom. v. 20, 21. It might be questioned from the former words,
since death hath reigned before Moses, for sins against nature’s light, what means the new
entry of the written law? What was the end of the promulgation of it on mount Sinai? He answers,
“the law entered that sin might abound;” that is, the world knew not sin, the letters of nature’s
light were worn out and rusty; men thought not of their miserable condition by nature, and
did not charge themselves before God; therefore a new edition and publication of the law must
be given, that all men may know how much they owe, and how they were guilty in a thousand things
they never dreamed of. But wherefore serves this? That grace might superabound where sin had
abounded. The Lord would have sin abounding in men’s knowledge, and their charge to be great
and weighty, that God’s pardoning grace might be more conspicuous, and the discharge more sweet.
We also learn, (Gal. iii. 19.) that the same question was moved, “Wherefore then serves the
law? Seeing the covenant of grace was preached to Abraham, what meant the publishing of a covenant
of works upon mount Sinai?” He answers, “It was added because of transgression, till the seed
should come, to whom the promise was made;” and as it is said, Rom. v. 13, “For until the law
sin was in the world.” It abounded in all places of the world before the law came; but men
did not impute it unto themselves, nor condemn themselves as guilty. Therefore the law was
added to discover many hidden transgressions, and to show them the curse they deserved. Now
this law is not against the promise or covenant of grace, (ver. 21.) which it behoved to be
if it were not given of intention to drive men to Christ. But the 22d verse speaks out clearly
the end of it, “the scripture hath concluded all men under sin,” and under the curse both.
To what end? That the promise by faith in Christ might come, or be given to believers. And
ver. 24, “The law” was a “schoolmaster” and teacher, to lead us unto Christ. The very doctrine
of a command impossible for man to keep, was, as it were, a proclamation of Christ Jesus to
him, a complete teaching of the necessity of some other way of salvation. The law exacted obedience
rigorously, even such as we could not perform, and cursed every degree of disobedience. This,
if there were no more, speaks that a man cannot stand to such terms, and therefore he must
flee to Jesus Christ, who mends the broken covenant.

Again, the apostle, 2 Cor. iii. 13, 14, while he speaks of the excellency of the ministry of
the gospel beyond the ministry of Moses, notwithstanding all the material glory that accompanied
that ministration, as the shining of Moses’ face, &c., now opens up a great mystery here,—Moses’
face shining while he was with God upon the mount. This holds forth the glory of the law as
in respect of God. By counsels and inventions they saw no more but temporal mercies in it,
and were not able to fix their eyes on that glory; the carnal Israelites did not break through
the ministry of the law and death, to see Jesus there, because a vail was upon their hearts.
They thought God had been dealing with them in the terms of a covenant of works, and they would
stand to all God had said, and undertook indeed very fairly, “All which God hath commanded,
we will do, and be obedient.” But though(462) they perverted God’s meaning of the law, and
did not see Jesus intended; for they did not look steadfastly to the end of that mystery. Now
what was it the vail hid them from? For the same vail is yet on them to this day, while they
read Moses and the prophets, and when they shall be converted it shall be done away in Christ,
they shall then see him in Moses’ law. So then, the end of this ministry of the law was Jesus
Christ, and this they could not behold.

Now from all this it is very clear, that Jesus Christ, or faith in him, was the great purpose
and end of the law, and covenant of works. The world was lying in sin, and none sought God,
no not one; neither knew they well what sin was. Therefore God sends his gospel from mount
Sinai, and publishes his law in a terrible manner, that they might know the way and manner
of the God they served, and see that their obligation was infinitely beyond their ability or
performance. But, poor souls! they clearly mistake the matter, and stand to the terms of the
covenant of works, as if they were able to perform them. But God did not leave them so. For
he adds a ceremonial law, and sacrifices, to shadow out Christ Jesus. Now, says God, though
ye have undertaken so well, yet I know you better than ye do yourselves. Ye will never keep
one word of what you say. Therefore, when ye sin bring a sacrifice, and look to my Son, the
Lamb that is to be slain and offered up, and ye shall have pardon in him.

II. Christ Jesus apprehended by faith, is the accomplishment and perfection of the law. 1.
Because Christ Jesus, or faith laying hold upon him, accomplishes the same end that the law
was ordained for of itself. The law was appointed to justify men, that it might be a rule of
righteousness according to which men might stand before God and live. Now when the law was
weak through the flesh, and could not give life, (Rom. viii. 3; Gal. iv. 21.) and the law ordained
to life, wrought more death, and made sin exceeding sinful, (Rom. vii. 10-13.) therefore Jesus
Christ came in the flesh, to do what the law was unable to do, and to bring many sons unto
glory, that the just might live by faith, Gal. iii. 11. The law should never have gotten its
end, no man should have stood before God, but the curse only would have taken place, and the
promise would have been of no effect. Therefore, Jesus comes, and gives obedience to the law,
and delivers men from the curse of it, and by faith puts men in as good, and even in a better
condition, than they would have been by the promise; so that the justified sinner may come
before God, as well as innocent Adam, and have as great confidence and assurance, and peace
by faith, as he could have had by inherent holiness. Imputed righteousness comes in as a covering
over the man’s nakedness, and doth the turn(463) of perfect inherent holiness.

2. Christ, or faith laying hold on him, is the end or accomplishment of the law, because faith
in Christ fulfils the righteousness of the law, in respect of a believer’s personal obedience.
Although the believer gave not perfect obedience, and so cannot stand in terms of justice,
yet he gives sincere and upright obedience, which the law should never have got. The command
wrought sin and death, by occasion of corruption, and never would any point of it be fulfilled
by men. For as long as the curse was standing, no obedience could be acceptable till justice
was satisfied, and though that might have been dispensed with, yet there is none that are righteous,
none seek after God. No good principles of obedience were in us, but all are corrupt, and have
done abominable works, and all our righteousness is as a menstruous cloth; and though upright
obedience could have been yielded, yet the law exacted perfect obedience. But now faith in
our Redeemer absolves a man from the curse of the law, so that now he is not looked upon as
an enemy, but a friend; and then it puts a man upon obedience to the command from new motives
and principles: and thus the righteousness of the law is fulfilled in us, who walk after the
Spirit, Rom. viii. 4. And that imperfect obedience is accepted of God, and received off his
hand, by virtue of the sacrifice and atonement of Christ. The law would accept of no less,
no not of nine commandments, if the tenth was broken. But now God in Christ accepts of endeavours
and minting,(464) and so is the law in some way or other accomplished. And faith leads a man
on till he be perfected. He walks by faith from strength to strength, till he appear before
God, and be made holy as he is holy. Faith in Christ is the end of the law.

3. Because whatever faith wants of perfect and personal obedience, it makes up in Christ’s
obedience, and thus is the law thoroughly accomplished, for what it wants in the believer it
gets in Christ. And thus may ye have consolation against your imperfect personal mortification.
Ye were thoroughly mortified in Christ. So the believer may look unto Jesus, as one who hath
given obedience even unto the death, and that, not in his own name but for us, that the imperfect
holiness and obedience of every sound believer, may have his complete righteousness to cover
it, and come next the Father’s eye. And thus is the law fulfilled, and this way doth faith
not make void, but establish the law, Rom. iii. 31. And as the law got better satisfaction
in the sufferings of Christ, who became a curse for us, than in all the punishment we could
endure, so it gets more satisfaction to the command by his obedience than if our personal had
been perfect. Christ was “made under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons,”
(Gal. iv. 4) and the Son’s being made under the law is of more worth than all our being under
it. Now faith puts that obedience of God Man in the law’s hand. When we do God’s will, he brings
out Christ Jesus, “Lo, (says he) I come, I delight to do thy will,” Psal. xl. 7-9. In a word,
faith in Jesus accomplishes the law, in the commands, in the promise, in the curse, as might
be easily shown, if your time would allow.

(1) In the curse, because it lays hold upon Christ, who was “made a curse for us,” (Gal. iii.
13) and so gives complete satisfaction to the Lord’s justice in that point. It holds up the
sacrifice and propitiation of our Saviour, and justice says, I am satisfied. It holds up the
ransom, (Job xxxiii. 24) and therefore Christ says, “Deliver them from going down to the pit,
for I have found a ransom.” Again we also observe, (2) That faith in Christ also fulfils the
commandments of the law, because it is the fountain of new obedience unto the law. It hath
a respect unto all God’s righteous judgments. It purifies the heart into the obedience of them,
and it works by love, and so it is the end of the law for righteousness. It not only gives
the answer of a good conscience unto all challenges and curses from Christ’s blood, but daily
derives virtue out of Jesus Christ, to bring forth fruit unto God. What it cannot reach by
doing, it supplies by believing, and laying hold upon Christ’s obedience. And this is the righteousness
of the law fulfilled in us. Let us also,

(3) Look upon the promise of life, and it is accomplished also by faith in Christ. For the
law could not have given life, and so the promise would now be in vain; but Christ by faith
justifies the sinner, and he lives, yea, hath eternal life in him, and so all the three are
strengthened and established. Faith is the most comprehensive commandment, 1 John iii. 22,
23. It is put for all the commandments, (1) By acknowledgment of the breach of all, and so
it magnifies the law, and makes it honourable, and subscribes to the sentence of justice and
the authority of the command; (2) By satisfaction, because it gives a price for the breach
of it, and puts the Cautioner(465) in the craver’s hand; (3) By obedience, because after this,
it hath a respect to all God’s laws, and endeavours after new obedience to every one of them.

The improvement of all this is extremely plain. It may serve to discover unto us how we disappoint
God of his end in giving unto us the command. And the law was given for the best purposes.
But, the most part of men have no end, no use of the law. God hath given it for some end, but
they know it not. They live without God, and without rule in the world. Men walk as if there
was no law, nor command, nor curse. There are but two ends the command was ordained for, the
first instituted end which it naturally tends unto is life, (Rom. vii. 10) and the second end
for which God hath appointed it since the first is missed, is to pursue men to Jesus Christ,
and convince them of sin, to make them once die that they may live, Rom. vii. 9. But the most
part know neither of these ends. A carnal profane generation will not seek life by the righteousness
of the law; their iniquities testify against them even to their face, and their sin is found
hateful. There is not so much as an endeavour among too many Christian professors, either to
approve themselves unto men, or their own consciences in their outward walking. They walk without
any regard of a command, or rule, as it were by guess. Their own rule is what pleases them
best. What suits their humours, and crosses God’s word, that they will do, as if they knew
not the curse, or were afraid of the sentence of condemnation. They walk in peace, and have
no changes, they walk in the imagination of their vain hearts. They cannot say, and none will
say for them, they seek life by the law, their contempt of it is so palpable, and yet no other
end of it they know so it is to them as if God had never appointed it. Again,

2. There are many wrong and false ends, or uses of the law, when we make it the immediate mean
to life and righteousness, and seek justification by it. And this was the end that these false
teachers would have made of it. This is the end that the Israelites looked to. “All that the
Lord hath commanded, will we do.” O that was a great undertaking! Poor men, they knew not what
they said. They thought upon no other thing but obedience to the command, and so made it a
covenant of works. Thus did the people that followed Christ, John vi. 28. And the young man
that came to Christ said, “What good thing shall I do, to inherit eternal life?” Here doing
was preferred to living by faith, Rom. x. 1-23. The Jews did so, and missed the right way.
And few of you will take(466) with this, that ye seek to be justified by your own works; and
yet, it is natural to men, they will not submit to God’s righteousness. There is need of submission
to take Christ. O would not any think all the world would be glad of him, and come out and
meet him bringing salvation? Would not dyvours(467) and prisoners be content of a deliverance?
Were it any point of self denial for a lost man, to grip a cord cast unto him? Yet here must
there be submission to quit your own righteousness. It were of great moment to convince you
of this, that ye are all naturally standing to the terms of a covenant of works, ye who are
yet alive, and the commandment hath not slain you, with Paul, Rom. vii. 9, 11. Ye are yet seeking
life by the law, if ye have not applied the curse unto yourselves. After application of yourselves
to the command, ye are yet seeking life by it. Ye adorn yourselves with some external privileges,
in some external duties of religion, some branches of the second table duties, and come to
God with these. Some think to satisfy God for their faults, with an amendment in time to come.
Some think God cannot punish some faults in them, because they have some good things in them.
Ask many men the ground of their confidence, and in all the world they know not how to be saved,
unless their prayers do it, or their keeping the kirk.(468) But this is not the end that God
hath sent out the law for. Ye cannot now stand to such a bargain. The law is now weak through
the flesh, and it is now impossible for it to give life. Though you would pray never so much,
all is but abomination. And would not many of you think ye were in a fair venture for heaven,
if no man living could lay any thing to your charge, but were you unblameable in all the duties
of the first and second table? [Could you say,] though you know nothing as by yourselves, that
you were frequent and fervent in prayer, reading, and meditation; and as far advanced as Paul,
or David, or Moses, or Job, sure ye would think yourselves out of doubt of heaven? Nay, but
in this, ye may see ye are seeking righteousness by the law. Though ye were so far advanced,
yet God, who is of purer eyes than to behold iniquity, would look to your sins, and pass by
your righteousness, and all that would be as menstruous rags before him; and therefore Paul
was much wiser, who said, “though I know nothing by himself, yet am I not hereby justified.”
3. Many make the law an end, when God hath only made it a mean. God hath appointed the law
for some other use, namely, to be subservient to Christ and the gospel. But oftentimes we make
the law the end of all God’s speaking to us, and so conclude desperate resolutions from it,
(Rom vii. 9). “When the law came, sin revived, and I died.” Here the man is slain by the commandment,
and not yet come to the healing Physician at Gilead. We use to gather desperation of the command,
when it presses so perfect and exact obedience, such as we cannot yield. When it craves the
whole sum, without the abatement of a farthing, we sit down under the sense of an impossibility
to obey, and will not so much as mint(469) at obedience. Because we cannot do as we ought,
we will not do as we can. Because we cannot do in ourselves we conclude nothing can be done
at all. This is to make the command the last word, and the end of God’s speaking. Doth not
the child of God frequently sit down and droop over his duty, while he looks upon the Egyptian
taskmaster, the command, charging the whole work and portion of brick, and giving no straw
to work upon? So are many in duties. While the aim and eye is upon some measure according to
the perfect rule, the hands fall down feeble, and none is wrought at all, and they do not look
if there be another word from God posterior to the command, a word of promise. We use also
to gather desperate conclusions of the curse, and make the law according to which we examine
ourselves, the end of God’s manifesting his mind unto us, and do not look upon it as a way
leading to some other thing. When ye have tried yourselves, and applied your own ways and state
unto the perfect rule, God’s verdict of all men’s condition is true in you, “all have sinned,
and come short of the glory of God,” “there is none righteous, no, not one,” and so if necessitated
to apply the dreadful sentence of the judgment to yourselves, ye stay there, and sit down to
lodge with the sentence of condemnation, as if that were God’s last word to sinners. Is not
this to make the law the end, which is but appointed for another end? The curse is not irrepealable.
Why then do ye pass peremptory conclusions, as if there was no more hope, but it were perished
from the Lord?

II. To discover unto us the right end and use of the law, the great design and purpose of God
in making such a glorious promulgation of the law on mount Sinai, and delivering it by the
ministry of angels, in the hands of a mediator. The end which God hath been driving at these
six thousand years, is this only, that men may come to Jesus Christ and believe in him. The
end wherefore the covenant of works hath been preached since Adam’s fall, is only this, to
make way for a better covenant of grace, that men may hearken to the offer of it. Now faith
in Jesus Christ hath two special actings, either upon Christ for justification of the person,
and eternal life and salvation, or for sanctification of the person and actions, in the fruits
of new obedience. And in the text, unfeigned faith is described from both these, and gives
the answer of a good conscience, that is, of absolution from the curse, by the blood of Jesus,
and makes him as quiet as he had never sinned. And then it purifies the heart, and worketh by love.

Now the law is a mean appointed of God, and instituted to lead to both these, and Christ in
these. The law is appointed to lead a man to faith in Christ, for salvation and righteousness,
and the suitableness of it to that end, we comprehend thus: 1. It convinces of sin; “The law
entered that the offence might abound,” and “was added because of transgressions,” Rom. v.
20, Gal. iii. 19. This is the end of God’s sounding the trumpet, and declaring our duty, “that
every mouth may be stopped” before God, and that none may plead innocence before his tribunal.
While men are without the law, they are alive, and think well of themselves, but the entering
of the commandment in a man’s conscience, in the length, breadth, and spirituality of it, makes
sin to appear exceeding sinful. Sin was in the house before, but was not seen before, and now
when the bright beam of a clear, spiritual, holy law, carrying God’s authority upon it, is
darted into the dark soul, O what ugly sights appear! The house is full of motes. Ye cannot
turn the command where it will not discover innumerable iniquities, an universal leprosy. For
all the actions that were called honest, civil and religious before, get a new name, and they
being seen in God’s light, are called rottenness, and living without the law, Rom. vii. 9 &c.
Think ye, but the woman of Samaria knew her adultery, before Christ spake to her? Nay, but
Christ speaks according to the law and makes it a mean of faith. He tells her all that ever
she did. He tells her indeed what she knew before, but in another manner. Men know their actions,
but the Lord discovers the sinfulness of them, as offensive to God’s holy majesty, and pure
eyes. It will force a man to give his sin the right name, it will take away all excuses and
shifts, and aggravate sin, that it may become exceeding sinful. But further, 2. This is not
the last end of it. Not only is it ordained to stop all mouths, but to make all flesh guilty
before God, “For by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified,” Rom. iii. 18, 19. It
convinces of an impossibility to stand before God, and so it kills a man. And now the man asks,
“What shall I do to be saved?” He cannot stand before God in terms of justice, where none can
stand, and so either must some other delivery come, or he is gone. Now here he is put from
making satisfaction, “Who can abide with everlasting burnings?” He sees himself standing under
the stroke of justice; and where can he go from God’s presence? If he go to heaven, he is there,
if to hell, he will find him out, the light and darkness are alike to him, Psal. cxxxix. 7-11.
Not only the cries of sinful man, but of wretched and miserable man, are heard from him! Now
these are the steps the law proceeds by. But it must not stay there, or else it is not come
to the end of it. It must put a man within the doors of the covenant of grace. The law is a
messenger sent to pursue a man out of his own house of self confidence and security, he was
like to perish in, and not to know it. Now by discovering his sinful and cursed condition,
it brings him out of himself, and out of all created things. But the end is not yet attained,
till it put him in Christ’s hand, and enter him in the border of the city of refuge and this
is the end of the abounding of sin by the law, that grace may superabound, Rom. v. 20. And
this is the end of the concluding him under sin, and making him guilty before God, that the
promise of faith may be given him, and another righteousness revealed by faith, Rom. iii. 20,
21, Gal. iii. 23. And now he is at peace, being justified by faith, and rests as a stone in
its own place (Rom. v. 1, 2 ), and the law hath nothing to do with him; he is out of its jurisdiction.
3. Now when it hath pursued him unto Christ for salvation, yet the command is still useful,
and appointed yet for faith in Jesus, in performing new obedience. The Christian’s daily walking
is but the turning of the old round, as the sun doth this day go about the compass it did the
first day, so his life is but a new conversion still. When he is now settled on Jesus for salvation,
he must yet be put by(470) the command. It discovers his dally sins, and so he is put to Jesus,
the open Fountain for all sin and uncleanness. And the command comes out in perfection, and
discovers his shortcoming and inability, and therefore he is put to Jesus for strength. And
this is the end of the perfect rule upon believers, that they, comparing duty with their ability,
may be forced to make up their inability for duty by faith in Christ.

III. We may know from this what great encouragement we have to believe, and how great warrant,
since not only God commands faith itself (1 John iii. 23.), but he hath appointed faith to
be the end of all other commands, and hath given the whole law for this end. For “without faith
it is impossible to see God.” Faith is that which God loves best in all obedience. What is
it that makes faith so precious? Certainly not the act itself, but the precious object of it,
Jesus Christ, in whom the Father is well pleased. Faith glorifies God in his justice and mercy
most, and abases the creature. Now what an obligation lies on us to believe? It is usual to
question a right and warrant of faith, when we have no doubt of other commands. But, in all
reason, any command might be questioned before faith. There is no duty admits of less disputing.
Hath not God put it out of all controversy? What warrant have ye to pray, or to sanctify the
Sabbath? Is it not because God commands these duties? And do ye not go about them in obedience
to God, notwithstanding of the sense of your own inability? How comes it then that ye make
any more scruple of this? Hath not the same authority that gave the ten commands, given also
this new command? And shall not disobedience be rebellion, and worse than witchcraft?(471)
But when besides all this, it is the appointed end of all the commands, so that ye may say,
it is commanded in all the commands and the whole law,—command and curse is a virtual kind
of commanding faith,—then what shall disobedience be? When ye break one command, ye are guilty
of all. Much more here, not only because of God’s authority stamped upon all, but because it
is the common end of all. If ye could once come to believe that ye had as good warrant to believe
in Christ as to abstain from cursing God’s name, and as great obligation, what could ye answer
for disobedience?

IV: This is a point of great consolation also. What more terrible than the law? Nothing in
all the world. Nothing in all the word so dreadful as the trumpet on Sinai, sounding louder
and louder. The judge and law gives voice. Yet if ye could look to the end of it and if the
vail that was on the Jews’ heart be not upon yours, O how comfortable shall it be! Doth not
a command and curse form a dead sound in an awakened man’s ears, and strike unto his heart
like a knife? But if he knew this, it would be a healing medicine. Would not many sinners wish
there would be no such thing in the Bible as a condemning law, when they cannot get it escaped?
But look to the end of it, and see gospel saving doctrine in the very promulgation of it. When
it was published, it made the Jews all to tremble and cry out, and even holy Moses himself
was afraid. But there is more consolation than terror here. This condemning law is delivered
in a Mediator’s hand, even Jesus Christ, Gal. iii. 19, 20. Who was he that spake out of the
cloud, and fire, and came and set down his throne on Sinai, accompanied with innumerable angels?
Deut. xxxiii. 2, Acts vii. 53. It was Jesus Christ that spoke to Moses in the mount, and in
the bush also, Acts vii. 35, 38. Is it then the Mediator’s law, whose office it is to preach
glad tidings, and the day of salvation? Sure then it needs be dreadful to no man. For if he
wound, he shall heal, and he comes to bind up the broken hearted. Ye may look on the command
and curse as messengers sent by mercy, to prepare you, and make his way straight before his
face. The end of the law is not to condemn you, to stop your mouth, and make you guilty. That
is not the last work it is appointed for, but the Mediator hath another end, to bring you to
the righteousness of faith, to save you without yourselves. Therefore ye may more willingly
accept the challenge, since it comes in so peaceable terms. What should be terrible to you
in all God’s word and dispensation, since the ministry of condemnation and death is become
the port(472) of heaven and life? What must all his other dealings be? Surely there is nothing
in the world, but it must lead to this end also. Prosperity and adversity, the end of them
is faith, conviction and challenges. Be not then as men without hope, when you are challenged,
for the challenge comes from a Mediator who would have you saved.

V: You may see hence how injurious they are to grace who cry down the law. The Antinomian cannot
be a right defender and pleader for faith (the end of the command), when he opposes the command
that leads to that end. He can not exalt Christ aright, or lead men to him, when he will not
come under the pedagogue’s hand to be led to Christ. The law, even as a covenant of works,
is of perpetual use to a believer, because it lays a blessed necessity upon him to abide with
Christ. It is a guard put before the door, to keep him, as it was a schoolmaster to bring him
to Christ, and makes a man subordinate to the gospel as a mean to the end, and so it ought
to be used. So then it is against the truth [to say] that the Israelites were under the law,
and not Christians. The law came not to be a mean of life and righteousness unto them, but
that the offence might abound, that so grace might superabound. The law was not intended, but
Christ was intended, and this end they could not fix their eyes upon, by reason of the hardness
of their hearts. It is also false, that Christian believers are wholly exeemed(473) from the
command and law. No, he hath use of all that leads to Jesus Christ, and the law itself becomes
gospel under that notion. The command stands in its integrity, that he may be convinced of
shortcoming and inability, and so may believe in Christ. The curse also stands, and condemns
him for new sins, that he may believe in Christ, who justifies the  ungodly. Again, it is not
truth, that the law is no mean of conversion, though not in its own virtue and power, but as
it is delivered in a Mediator’s hand, and applied by the Spirit of grace and the gospel.

Use VI: We exhort you not to disappoint God of his end, and if he hath given the law for this
end, never rest till ye be at the end. Let the law enter into you once, or enter ye into it.
Ye cannot come to Jesus unless it lead you. Let it enter into your consciences, with God’s
power and authority as his law, and examine yourselves by it, else ye shall never believe in
Christ. 2. Accept all the challenges of the law, let it enter till your mouth be stopped. Read
your obligation well, that ye may see how much ye owe. 3. Let faith be the issue and result
of all the applications of the law to yourselves. Ye go in the law’s hand to Christ, but sit
not down with it, or else you will not go free till ye have paid the last farthing. Make faith
in Christ the end of the curse condemning you, that he may absolve you, the end of the command,
commanding, that he may give strength and fulfil in you the righteousness of the law. God never
sent a condition to you, but that you may believe, and be established. 4. Let it be your exercise
to travel between an impossible command, and Christ Jesus by faith, through whom all things
are possible. Write always down how much ye owe, that ye may see grace superabounding. Sit
not down to examine the duty, or go not about it in your own strength. Be not discouraged though
ye find no strength. Ye are called in such a case to believe. Nay, in a word, what is all the
Christian’s employment? Faith exhausts it all. Look on the command, and it calls for believing.
Look upon the curse and it calls also for believing.

Sermon XII.

    1 Tim. i. 5.—“Now the end of the commandment,” &c.

We come now, as was proposed, to observe, Thirdly,(474) That faith unfeigned is the only thing
which gives the answer of a good conscience towards God. Conscience, in general, is nothing
else but a practical knowledge of the rule a man should walk by, and of himself in reference
to that rule. It is the laying down a man’s state, and condition, and actions beside the rule
of God’s word, or the principles of nature’s light. It is the chief piece of a man. The man
is as his conscience is. It is a man’s lord. As a wing to a bird, or as a rudder to a ship,
so is conscience to a man in all his ways. The office of conscience is ordinarily comprehended
in three styles it gets. It is a law or rule, a witness, and a judge, or a light, a register,
and a recorder, and an executioner. For the conscience its first act is some principle of nature’s
light, obliging it as a rule to walk by, or some revealed truth of God, whereof the conscience
is informed. Now the conscience, in the second place, comes to examine itself according to
the rule, and there it bears witness of a man’s actions or state, and faithfully records and
depones.(475) And at length the conscience pronounces the sentence upon the man, according
as it has found him, either accusing or excusing, condemning or absolving. Now a good conscience
is diversely taken in scripture, I. A good conscience is an honest clean conscience, bearing
testimony of integrity and uprightness in walking, such as Paul had, 2 Cor. i. 12, “Our rejoicing
is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity, and godly sincerity, we have
had our conversation in the world.” Heb. xiii. 18, “We trust we have a good conscience, in
all things willing to live honestly.” Acts xxiv. 16, “Herein do I exercise myself in having
a conscience void of offence, towards God and man.” 1 Pet. iii. A good conscience is a conscience
calmed and quieted, that hath gotten an answer to all challenges, the blood and resurrection
of Jesus, 1 Pet. iii. 21. And this we take to be meant here. For the guilty man that comes
to Christ, and washes in the fountain opened for sin, hath no more conscience of sins, Heb.
x. 2. And therefore it is called a pure and clean conscience, 2 Tim. i. 3, “I thank God, whom
I serve from my forefathers, with a pure conscience,” &c.; the stain of guilt is taken away.
Now I say, faith only gives the answer of a good conscience. The man that comes to Christ hath
an ill conscience, when he hath examined himself according to the law, and given out faithful
witness of his own state and condition, and accordingly pronounced sentence,—a sentence condemnatory.
He finds himself lying under God’s curse, and so the conscience from a judge turns a tormentor,
and begins to anticipate hell, and prevent(476) the execution of wrath. All the world cannot
answer this challenge, or absolve from this sentence, until faith come and give a solid answer,
that may be a ground of peace. And its answer is good and sure, because it dips the conscience
in the blood of the Son of God. For the blood of bulls and of goats could not do it, the redemption
of the soul was precious. Faith puts the soul over head and ears in the fountain opened, and
it comes out like snow, or wool, though it were like scarlet or crimson. The law condemned,
and the conscience subscribed itself sinful, and concluded itself lost in sin; but faith in
Christ pleads before mercy’s throne, where judgment and justice also sit. It pleads its cause
over again, and gets the former sentence repealed. The conscience gave in the charge against
the man, but faith sits down and writes the discharge; and so he is as free as if all his debt
was paid, or never contracted. Faith puts the Cautioner in the creditor’s hand, and goes free.
As the law writes down a charge of sin and curses, faith sets against it as many sufferings
in Christ, as many blessings in the Blessing of all nations. And when the conscience that condemned
itself by faith again absolves itself, O what a calm, what a perfect peace is it then kept
in! What a continual feast doth it enjoy! Prov. xv. 15. Make him never such a great man in
the world, he would utterly despise it, and count himself more blessed in the pardon of sin,
and the friendship of God, than all the enjoyments of this world. He is better in some respect
than if he had never sinned, for his sin is, as it were, not before God. And withal he hath
got not only acquittance from guilt, but acquaintance with Jesus Christ, the Blessing of the
nations, and the Desire of all the families of the earth. Now may he triumph and boast in Christ
Jesus. Who shall condemn? It is God that justifies, it is Christ that died, and is risen again.
He may say with David, “I will not fear, though my iniquities compass me about;” and with Job,
“If he cause quietness, who can give trouble?” We observe then that,

I. Before a man come to Christ, he has an ill conscience; for either he is at peace with himself,
and absolves himself, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the abominations of my heart,
Deut. xxix. 19; or he also says, “Because I am innocent,” therefore God will turn away his
wrath, Jer. ii. 35. He cries peace, peace, when there is no peace, (Ezek. xiii. 10.) and that
is but a desperate condition, and a bad conscience, if any can be so called. This is the secure
and seared conscience, that either doth not judge itself, because a man hath beaten it flint
hard, or is constantly absolving itself upon false grounds. That is the conscience that in
all the creation is nearest the desperate conscience, that shall never have a good answer.
His sin is but lying at the door like Cain’s, and shall enter in when judgment comes. He is
but flattering himself in his own eyes, till his iniquity be found hateful, and till sudden
destruction comes as an armed man. Look upon Deut. xxix. 20, and see such a man’s case. There
is no peace for him, the Lord will not pity nor spare him, but pour upon him all the curses
of the law, even when he blesses himself in his own eyes. In short, he is such as is awakened
to see where he is, and condemns himself according to the word; and that is a better and a
more hopeful conscience than the former, yet it is but an ill conscience. Conscience doth act
its part aright, and in so far it is good, but the man is but in a miserable condition. Withal
it gives such a wound to the soul, as none can bear it. All the sad affections which take up
men’s spirits come in, and this is the worm which never dies in hell, and the fire which shall
never be quenched. Anger, grief, hatred, despair, always dwell with an ill conscience. This
is both the resemblance of hell, and the sparks which come from that devouring fire. But, II.
When the troubled conscience, tossed up and down, and looking upon all hands for help, and
all refuge failing them, and no person caring for their soul, when it gets once a look of Jesus,
and roweth unto his shore, O what a change! He commands the winds to calm, and the waves to
cease, and says unto him, Son, be of good comfort, thy sins are forgiven. Faith finds in Jesus
ample grounds of answering all challenges, of silencing all temptations, of overcoming all
enemies, and commands the soul to go into its place of refuge. 7-9.

We shall now shut up all with the application in some uses. Use I. We may learn hence how few
have a good conscience. Faith is a rare thing, but a good conscience is much rarer. And here
we may notice, 1. That the conscience which is dead and sleeping, is not a good conscience:
every quiet and calm conscience is not a good one. Ye may dream over your days with the foolish
virgins, and take rest in a pleasing delusion, and cry peace, peace, and yet the end of it
will be worse than the beginning. A conscience that acts not at all, nor judges itself, is,
as it were, no conscience; either ignorance hath blinded it, and keeps it in the dark, or wickedness
hath stopped its mouth. You think your conscience good because it tells you few of your faults,
it troubles you not; but that conscience must once speak, and do its office, it may be in a
worse time for you. 2. It is not a good conscience that always speaks good, and absolves the
man. God may condemn when it absolves. When ye walk according to false principles and grounds,
and either take a wrong rule, or know not how to apply the rule to yourselves, shall God approve
of false judgment? Your conscience is erring and deludes you. But, 1. The good conscience is
not only a quiet conscience, but a quieted conscience. It not only hath peace, but peace after
trouble. Ye then that have no peace, but what ye had all your days, it is but a mere fancy.
The answer of a good conscience quiets the distempered mind, it comes by the sprinkling and
washing of Christ’s blood. He that hath peace on solid grounds with God, hath once taken up
his enmity against him. 2. The good conscience hath been once an evil conscience, when it met
with the command. The man has once been under the law, before he came to faith, and examined
himself, and his conscience condemned him as not righteous, and out of Christ. Ye then that
never examined your state, according to the perfect and holy law, and never judged yourselves,
ye cannot believe in Jesus, and so can have no good conscience. 3. The good conscience flows
nearest from faith answering the challenges of the law. Some have had sore distempers of conscience,
and puddling exercises of terror. But how they were eased or quieted they cannot tell, but
their spring-tide ebbed, and they bubbled no more. It went away at will, and did wear out with
time. This is not a good conscience, that knows not distinctly the grounds of faith to oppose
to the law’s condemnation. Some turn to build cities with Cain, and pass the time pleasantly,
or in some business, that they may beguile their challenges. But this is not the conscience
that faith makes good. Now, set apart all these who do not examine themselves at all, nor judge
themselves, but live in a golden dream, who have never been arraigned before God’s tribunal,
or summoned by his deputy to appear before his judgment-seat; and join unto these all persons
who, judging themselves, take other rules of absolution than the word gives, who after trial
absolve themselves, and withal those, who, condemning themselves, yet flee not unto this city
of refuge, this blood of sprinkling, to get a solid answer in the word to all their challenges,
and O how few are behind! It is but as the gleaning after the vintage. Nay, many believers
have not a good conscience, though they have a right to it, because they settle not themselves
on the grounds of faith, and go not on from faith to faith. There must be some sense of faith,
before faith answer rightly, and give peace to the mind.

Use II. Ye see the way to get a good conscience. Believe much, and maintain your faith.   
It is as simple and poor a mistake as can befall a soul.   Ye think because ye have not peace
after your believing, therefore it was not unfeigned and true faith: and therefore ye will
not believe, because ye cannot get peace. But believe that ye may have a good conscience. Would
ye know your sins are pardoned before ye believe? How precious should faith be unto you, when
by faith ye may not only overcome the world, but, as it were, overcome God in judging, that
the soul may be justified when it is judged? Ye will not get challenges(477) answered by your
own integrity and uprightness, or by your performing of duties. No, no, these cannot be sufficient
grounds of your peace. Lay down the solid and satisfying grounds of faith, of imputed righteousness,
and of salvation by Jesus Christ, and this shall be a foundation of lasting peace. Sense makes
not a good conscience, there is much lightness and vanity in it, and the rule it proceeds by
is changeable, but faith establishes the soul, and makes it not ashamed.

Sermon XIII.

    1 Tim. i. 5.—“Now the end of the commandment,” &c.

Fourthly, Faith purging the conscience purifies the heart (Acts xv. 9.), and hope also purifies
the heart (1 John iii. 3.), which is nothing else but faith in the perfection and vigour of
it. This includes, I. That the heart was unclean before faith. II. That faith cleanses it,
and makes it pure. But “who can say, I have made my heart pure (Prov. xx. 9.), I am clean from
my sin?” Is there any man’s heart on this side of time, which lodges not many strange guests?
In answer to this we may observe, that there is a legal purity, and a gospel purity. A legal
purity is a sincere and full conformity to God’s holy will and command, in thought, affections,
inclinations, and actions, and, in this sense, who can say, I have made my hands clean? The
old corruption sticks to the heart and cannot be thoroughly scraped out, there are many lurking
holes for uncleanness to be hid in. Corruption is engrained in him, and it will not be the
work of one day to change it. The whole head is sick, and the whole body full of sores. All
the corners of the heart are full of filthiness and idols, and though the house be now sweeped
and garnished, and all things look better in it, yet there are many hidden places of rottenness
undiscovered, and it is the soul’s continual exercise to purify itself as he is pure. But evangelical
purity and cleanness is that which God reconciled in Christ takes to be so, and that which
in Christ is accepted, and is a fount of his clean Spirit dwelling in the heart. The heart
formerly was a troubled fountain, that sent out filthy streams, as a puddle. Corruption was
the mud among the affections and thoughts, but now a pure heart is like a clear running water,
clean and bright like crystal. Now this purity consists in the washing of regeneration, and
sanctification by the Spirit of holiness. Jesus Christ came both by water and blood, 1 John
v. 6. He came by blood, to sprinkle and purge the conscience, that it might have no more conscience
of sins, Heb. x. 2, ix. 14. And he also came by water, that is, the washing and cleansing virtue
of the Spirit of grace, to purge and cleanse us from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit.
There are two things in sin that Jesus came to destroy, the guilt and offence of sin, whereby
the sinner is bound over to condemnation, and lies under the Judge’s curse, and the spot of
sin, which also Christ came to destroy. He did both in his own person, and he is to perfect
this in us personally, who were judicially reckoned one with him, Rom. vi. 3-12, 1 John iii.
5. Now Jesus Christ hath come with blood to sprinkle the conscience from dead works, and give
it a good answer to the challenges of the law, and an ill conscience. And he hath come likewise
with water, to wash and cleanse us from the spots, and filth, and power of sin. The first removes
the guilt, the latter removes the filth of sin, and both are done by faith, which is our victory
over the world, and this is the way how faith overcomes the world by the water and blood. 1
John v. 4-6. The blood of Jesus Christ is holden by faith with a twofold virtue of cleansing,
from the guilt, and from the filth of sin, and thus cleanses us from all unrighteousness, 1
John i. 7. According to the promise of the covenant (Ezek. xxxvi. 25, 26.), the application
of the blood of sprinkling hath two effects. One is for justification, “ye shall be clean,”
another is, “from all your filthiness and idols will I cleanse you,” that is sanctification.
I. Now this purity consists in this, that the pure heart regards not iniquity in the inward
man, nor delights in sin, Psal. lxvi. 18. He sets not up his idols in God’s place, Ezek. xxxvi.
25. The cleansing of the heart is from idols. Although he cannot get himself purified as Christ
is pure, and though iniquity be in his heart, yet he regards it not. He looks not upon it as
a guest approven and accepted. Sin may be an intruding guest, but sin is not welcomed with
all his heart. He dare not take that pleasure in sin that another man would do. He hath a worm
that eats up his pleasure when he departs from God, or his thoughts go a-whoring from him.
The unbelieving man’s heart is a house full of idols, but the entry of faith by God’s Spirit
makes their Dagon to fall. But, II. The pure heart hath much of the filthiness taken away that
filled it before, and so it is denominated from the best part. It is washed and cleansed from
a sea of corruption, and the body of sin that did reign within the heart was formerly like
an impure fountain, that sent out nothing but rotten stinking waters. Unto him were all things
unclean, for his heart and conscience was defiled, Tit. i. 15. Nothing was pure to him, it
ran continually in a stream of unclean thoughts and affections. But now he is purified, and
to the believer “all things are pure:” the ordinary strain and current of his thoughts and
affections run more clearly free of the earthly quality they had, more sublimated, more spiritualized,
and he is named by that. Though, it may be, temptation may trouble the fountain, and make it
run unclean and earthly, yet it will settle again, and come into its own posture, and the dreg
fall to the bottom, and the clean water of the Spirit be the predominant. But a standing puddle
will run foul as long as it runs, corruption goes through all. It is not a corner of the heart,
but the whole heart.

III. A pure heart is like a running fountain, if it be defiled, it is always casting out the
filth, and is about returning to a right state. But an impure heart is like a standing puddle
that keeps all it gets. If by temptation the pure heart and affections be stirred, and the
filth that is in the bottom come up to the brim, it hath no rest nor peace in that condition,
but works it out again, and it hath this advantage, that it is purer and clearer after troubling
nor(478) it was before. For much of the filth would run out that had been lying quiet before.
But an impure heart keeps all, and vents none. If ye trouble it, ye will raise an ill smell,
and when it settles, it falls but to the bottom again, and there is as much to work upon the
next time. In a word, the believer when he sins, and his heart goes wrong, he weeps over his
heart, and has no peace till it be cleansed. He washes in the fountain of Christ’s blood. When
a natural transgression gets up, he sets himself against it and the root of it both, and bears
down the original corruption, which is the fountain of all sin (Psal. li. 5), and at every
descent he brings away something of that puddle. He is upon the growing hand by the exercise
of faith and repentance. Look upon him after he has seen and been sensible of his sins, and
ye would say it is not the man ye saw. He hates sin more than he did formerly. We also notice,

IV. That purity is sincerity and uprightness (James iv. 8), “Purify your hearts, ye double
minded.” Hypocrisy is filthiness and abominable to God. He then is a sincere man, that hath
any honesty of heart toward God. When his actions are not right, his heart doth not approve
them, Rom. vii. When he cannot come up to his duty, his desire comes before performance. A
sincere man hath a respect to all God’s commandments.

V. The pure man is still purifying himself “even as God is pure.” As he who hath called him
is holy, so he is holy in all manner of conversation. He never thinks he is clean enough, and
so he aspires after greater purity, and is named a saint, rather from his aim and endeavour,
than from his attainment. He cries, unclean, unclean, am I, and holy, holy, Lord God, art thou.
He hath taken up his lodging near the opened fountain, and dwells there, never to remove thence,
till he have his robes clean and white in the blood of the Lamb. No unclean thing can enter
into heaven, and he is trimming himself against that day, and setting apart all superfluity
of naughtiness, and filthiness, and still all his righteousness is as menstruous rags. He is
cleansing his house, every day casting out something, searching out all the corners of it,
lest the unclean thing, and the Babylonish garment be hid. His pattern is to walk even as Christ
walked, 1 John ii. 6.

Now faith and a good conscience have influence on this purifying the heart. I. Because faith
lays hold upon the cleansing virtue of Christ’s blood. The blood that was offered up by the
eternal Spirit, of how great virtue must it be when applied to the heart and conscience, Heb.
ix. 14. No wonder it makes that like wool which was formerly like scarlet. Now faith in Jesus
Christ applies that blood. It is the very hand that sprinkles it. Faith takes up house beside
the opened fountain, and dwells there. Faith takes Jesus for sanctification as well as justification,
1 Cor. i. 30. Faith looks upon a judicial union with Christ crucified, and sees his perfect
offering once offered to sanctify all, and therefore makes continual applications with David,
“Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean, wash me, and I shall be whiter than the snow.”
II. Faith purifies the heart, because it lays hold on the promises, and makes use of the word,
2 Cor. vii. 1. Faith having such promises, cleanses the man from all filthiness of the flesh
and spirit. The proper order of faith is the word, and the word is the truth by which we are
sanctified and made clean, John xvii. 17. There are many precious promises of sanctification
and holiness, and faith draws the virtue of purifying the heart out of the promises, and applies
the promise to his impure heart, and it is purged. III. Faith purifies the heart also by provocation
and upstirring, in as far as it gives the answer of a good conscience. For the man who hath
gotten a solid answer to all his objections in Christ’s blood, and hath the continual feast
of joy and peace in believing, O how will he abhor himself, and repent in dust and in ashes!
Faith takes up God’s holiness and purity, and loathes itself with Job, and cries, unclean.
The believer will thus reason and conclude,—shall I any more delight and live in sin, since
I am dead unto it by Jesus Christ? Rom. vi. 1, 2. He falls in with the beauties of holiness,
and so cannot abide his own. Faith begets hope, and hope purifies the heart. Shall then the
man who expects to see God, and be a citizen of the new Jerusalem, where no unclean thing can
enter, shall he walk in his former lusts, like the wicked world, and not make himself ready
for the continuing city he goes to, and adorn himself for the company of the blessed God and
angels?

Let us now conclude, by applying all which hath been said in some uses. Use I. We may see from
what hath been hinted, how little faith is among you. Faith purifies the heart, but if ye examine
yourselves, your hearts will be found unclean, and such as the Holy Ghost cannot dwell in.
The temple in which God’s Holy Spirit resides must touch no unclean thing, 2 Cor. vi. 16, 17.
Are not many men’s corruptions rank and lively? Unclean hands are an infallible demonstration
of an unclean heart, James iv. 8. These things which proceed out of the heart may teach you
what is within the heart. The streams may let you know what is in the fountain Mark vii. 15-22,
James iii. 11, 12. What need ye any more proof of yourselves? Sinners, look to your hands,
and your outward man, and learn from them to know your hearts. These things proceed out of
the heart and defile the whole man. The profanity of the most part of men’s practices, cursing
and swearing &c., is a bitter stream that cannot proceed from a good fountain. It is a wonder
how the world satisfy themselves with a dream of faith. What influence hath your faith had
upon your heart and conversation? Are ye not as earthly and worldly as ever, as unclean as
ever? Ye think your hearts good, but if your conversation be not good, your hearts are not
good. Will any person think his sins are pardoned, when he wallows in them? Do they believe
they shall obtain the remission of these sins they are not purging themselves from? No, no,
the blood and water must go together and the Spirit’s sanctifying with Christ’s justifying.

Use II. The children of God may hence gather the ground and reason of their little progress
in sanctification. Why are your hearts so unclean, and why is there so much corruption yet
living in your thoughts and affections, that it cannot keep within the heart, but, as a full
fountain, must run out in streams of external actions? It is even this, ye do not believe much,
and though this be told you, yet ye will not believe it; ye take ways of your own to purge
out your corruptions, and it will not do. All your resolutions, prayers, sad experiences, &c.,
are of no more virtue than the blood of bulls and goats. Ye must then apply the blood of the
Son of God, which was offered up by the eternal Spirit. It is but a poor fancy to suspend believing
till ye see a pure heart. How shall ye get a pure heart? Is it not folly to forbear planting
till ye see fruits, or to pluck up your tree because it bears not the first day? Abide in Christ,
and ye shall bring forth much fruit. Believe, and believe, and believe again, till faith be
answered by a good conscience, till that sweet echo be given unto the Lord’s comforting voice,
“Thy sins, which are many, are forgiven thee.” Be much in laying hold upon the precious promises,
and then your heart shall fall out of love with this present evil world, and shall relish spiritual
things. But who will believe this report? Ye go away convinced that this is the only way to
purify yourselves, and yet ye continue puddling in your old way. May God persuade your hearts
to do better.

Sermon XIV.

    1 Tim. i. 5.—“Now the end of the commandment,” &c.

Fifthly, Faith purging the conscience, and purifying the heart, works by love. Love is the
fruit of faith. Love is the stream that flows out of a pure heart and a good conscience. By
love, we mean principally love to God, or Jesus Christ, and then love to the saints next to
our Saviour. This is often mentioned in scripture, “Hope maketh not ashamed, (Rom. v. 5) because
the love of God is shed abroad in your hearts by the Holy Ghost.” This love is the consequence
of the peace which a justified man obtains by faith, Rom. v. 1, 2; 2 Cor. v. 14. The constraining
love of Christ flows from this ground, that a man judges Christ to have died for him, from
faith’s taking up of Christ in that noble expression of his love, (John v. 40, 42.) “And ye
will not come unto me that ye may have life. I know you, that ye have not the love of God in
you.” Faith works by love. Love is faith’s hand put out in action for Christ, and as the mind
commands the outward man, whether it will or not, so doth faith command love, Eph. iii. 17.
The rooting and building up in love is a fruit of Christ’s dwelling in the heart by faith.
Love is the branch that grows in faith’s root. These are often joined together, and comprehend
the substance of the law and gospel, 1 Tim. i. 14, 2 Tim. i. 13. Faith fulfils the obedience
to the gospel, and love is the fulfilling of the whole law, (Rom. xiii. 10) so that faith leads
a man back again to the command, that he fled to faith from. Faith hath reconciled them and
taken up the difference. We shall then show how faith and a good conscience and a pure heart
contribute to love.

First, Faith is the eye and sense of the soul to take up Jesus Christ. Nothing is loved but
as it is known and apprehended to be good. The affections of themselves are blind, and cannot
go forth but as led by the direction of faith. Faith is the mind to present love’s object.
The world sees no beauty nor form in the commands, that they should desire them. Even Jesus
Christ himself is but foolishness to a natural mind, he neither knows his need of him, nor
Christ’s suitableness to his need. But faith is the first opening of the eyes, when we are
turned from darkness to light, and from the power of sin and Satan unto God, Acts xxvi. 18.
Christ becomes the believer’s wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption, 1 Cor.
i. 30. The day spring from on high visits them who sit in darkness, to guide their feet in
the way of peace, Luke i. 78, 79. The light of the knowledge of the glory of God shining in
the face of the Sun of righteousness, doth arise and shine into their hearts. The man sees
himself in a dangerous condition, and says, Oh I where am I? And faith discovers, on the other
hand, all things in Christ Jesus suitable to such a case.  He sees nothing but vanity, emptiness,
and misery, sin, and condemnation in the creature, he sees grace, mercy, holiness, righteousness
and free salvation in Christ.  Set these beside one another, and judge ye if the soul cannot
choose to run out in affection and longing desire.  Oh! says he, to be one with him.  Faith
presents all the motives and attractives of the heart, and then there needs no more to make
it love.  Faith discovers a man’s self unto himself, and lets him see all misery within, complete
woe within doors, and it holds forth bread without the ports(479) for the saint, and salvation
for the lost.  It brings in an amiable person, who is fairer than the children of men, who
is all love, and hath no spot in him.  Is it not a sweet word, a Redeemer to captives, a Saviour
to sinners? And will not the soul rise up, and go forth out of itself? And will it not choose
to flit(480) unto him who is the desire of all nations? Will it not go unto him for food and
clothing? Love then is the soul’s journey and motion towards Jesus, whom faith hath brought
in such a good report of.  But,

Secondly.  When faith hath given the answer of a good conscience, and brought Jesus nearer
hand to the soul, or the soul nearer unto him, then love is stronger, and grows like a fire
that many waters cannot quench. It is like jealousy, that is cruel as the grave, many floods
cannot drown it.  Union is the ground of love, union in nature, or sympathy, or likeness, is
the ground of affection.  According as faith brings Christ nearer to the heart, the flame increases.
All things are desired and loved as good, but more desired, as not only good in themselves,
but good unto us.  Gold in the Indies will not much move the heart, but bring it hither, and
ye shall see who loves it.  The first act of faith puts a man in great need of a Saviour, and
discovers a possibility of redemption through Jesus, and in so far he is loved. But when once
faith has gone that length as to make a good conscience, and to calm and silence the woes of
a troubled mind, by the actual application of that desired possible redemption, and when it
can particularly apply the common salvation, O then what burning affection! “Who is a God like
unto thee, who pardoneth iniquity, and passest by the transgression of his heritage, because
he delights in mercy?” “Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I
desire besides thee.”  “I will love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice, I will call upon
him so long as I live,” as if it had never loved before.  They will love much to whom much
is forgiven.  Love, without such a faith, is full of jealousies and suspicions, but when faith
hath brought in Christ to dwell in the heart, then it is rooted and built up in love, (Eph.
iii. 17) and then perfect love casts out fear, 1 John iv. 18. Love before such an assurance,
is but a tormenting love, and hath much fear in it, saying, “Oh I may want him, and then I
will be more miserable than if I had not known him.” But faith, giving the answer of a good
conscience, casts out horror and fear, and then perfects love, and the soul then closes with
Christ as a Mediator and friend, and closes with God as a merciful Father, now reconciled unto
him through Christ, and not any more as a stern or severe Judge.  But,

Thirdly.  When faith hath purified the heart, and cleansed the affections, then the soul burns
with a purer flame of affection and zeal to God, and is, as it were, delivered from the earthly
weight put upon it.  When the heart is purified, love is like the flame, whereas, if he be
not so purged, there may be some heat and fire latent in the ashes, covered with corruption.
But a pure heart is a spiritual heart, and minds spiritual things, (Col. iii. 1) and it is
a heart going back unto its own place, Christ hath touched it with his own heart, and with
his salvation, and it looks aye(481) sure to him in the heavens.  The love of the world is
inconsistent with the love of the Father, 1 John ii. 15.  The love of the world plucks the
heart downward, and the lusts of the flesh are so many weights upon the believer, that he can
not mount up in a spiritual cloud of divine affection to Jesus Christ.  But the pure and spiritual
heart is now more refined, and delivered from these impediments, and it is like a pure lamp
of oil burning upward.  When a man’s heart is engaged to any thing of this world, love cannot
be perfect.  For love is a man’s master, and no man can serve two masters.

Sermon XV.

    Matt. vi. 33.—“But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his
    righteousness,” &c.

This is a part of Christ’s long sermon. He is dissuading his disciples and the people from
carnal carefulness and worldly mindedness. The sermon holds out the Christian’s diverse aspects
towards spiritual and external things. What is the Christian’s disposition in regard to the
world, how should he look upon food, raiment, and all things necessary in this life? “Be careful
for nothing.” “Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or drink,” &c. “Seek them
not as your chief good.” But what is his disposition towards spiritual and eternal things,
and how ought ye to look upon them? “Seek them, set your heart upon them, look upon them as
your treasure, and where your treasure is, let your heart be there also.” So then you see here
two callings and employments of a man in the world,—two universal callings that comprehend
all men, one natural to us, and unlawful, the other divine, and lawful, the one paganish, the
other Christian. What is the employment of all men out of Christ? There are many different
callings and employments among men. One spends his time and thoughts one way, and another another
way, but all of them agree in one general, whatever they are: Their heart is here. The thoughts
they have are bounded and circumscribed in this present world. They are careful for nothing
else but what concerns their back and belly,(482) or their name and credit. Take the best of
them, whose employment seems most abstracted from the common affairs and distractions among
men, yet their affections run no higher than this present world. On the other hand, what should
be the exercise and employment of a Christian? It is even this, whatever he be, or whatever
his occupation be among men, he drives a higher trade with heaven, that should take him up.
The world gets but his spare hours. He is upon a more noble and high project. He aspires after
a kingdom. His heart is above where Christ is, and where his treasure is. And these things
exhaust his affections and pains. Christ Jesus once takes the man’s heart off these baser things,
that are not worthy of an immortal spirit, let be(483) a spirit who is a partaker of a divine
nature. But because the creature cannot be satisfied within itself, its happiness depends upon
something without itself, (and this speaks out the vanity of the creature, and something of
God, that is peculiar to him, to be self sufficient,) therefore Christ changes the object of
the heart, and fixes the spirit upon a nobler and divine exercise. Since the spirit of a man
cannot abide within doors without starving, it must run out upon something, therefore Jesus
Christ hath described its bounds and way, its end and period. Before, a man sought many things,
because not one was satisfying, that the want of one might be supplied by another; and therefore
he was never near the borders of contentment and happiness, because still a thousand things
are wanting. But now, Christ puts the soul upon a satisfying and self sufficient object. And
here the streams of affection may run in one current, and need not divide or go contrary ways.

First: We have here then the Christian’s calling and employment in this world, opposed to the
carefulness and worldly mindedness of the men of this world, “Seek ye the kingdom of God.”
Secondly: His encouragement and success in two things, one is expressed, the other implied.
That which is expressed, is seeking the kingdom of God, of grace and glory. If ye seek this
kingdom, all temporal things shall be laid to your hand, all these things that ye need “shall
be added unto you.” The other imported is, ye shall get the kingdom who seek it. For the words,
“added unto you,” suppose the first and principal intent to be gotten. Then the Christian’s
success and encouragement is this, ye shall have the thing ye seek and more also. It was said
to Solomon, “Because thou hast sought wisdom, therefore thou shalt get all other things.” Because,
O Christian, thou sought the kingdom of God, and not this present world which Satan is prince
of, therefore thou shalt get according to thy word, and thou shalt also get what thou asked
not, 1 Kings iii. 11-13. He hath success in the main business, and there is a superplus besides,
some accession to his portion, that comes of will, so to speak. The kingdom of God in the New
Testament is sometimes restricted to the elect, the word of the gospel, and the administration
of it, by the Spirit of grace in the hearts of his people. This is frequently called “the kingdom
of heaven,” and “of God,” Matth. xiii. 33. Sometimes the kingdom of God is taken for the state
of grace, a new principle of spiritual life, that grows up to the perfect day, and this kingdom
is within us, Luke xvii. 21. It is taken also for heaven, the kingdom of glory, Luke xxii.
16. Both these must be sought after, (Luke xii. 31.) and received, (Luke xviii. 17.) and must
suffer violence, Matth. xi. 12. The righteousness thereof may be taken for the righteousness
of God by faith, Rom. x. 3, chap. iii. 21, 22, 2 Cor. v. 21, Rom. iv. 11, 13, Rom. ix. 30,
chap. x. 6, Heb. xi. 7, Phil. iii. 9.

We would observe here: I. That the Christian his name and occupation is to be a wanter and
a seeker. II. The great exercise and employment he should have in this world, that which should
swallow up his affections, thoughts, and endeavours, should be the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
which is clearly expressed in three things: 1. His first and chief care should be to be at
peace with God, and to be adorned with Christ’s righteousness; 2. To have the kingdom of God
within him, a throne of judgment erected for Christ to rule the whole man, by his Spirit according
to the word; 3. To be made an heir here, and a possessor hereafter, of the everlasting kingdom
of glory; 4. No man can either be a subject of God’s gracious kingdom here, or his glorious
kingdom hereafter, without the imputed righteousness of the Son of God, and whoever seeks righteousness
must also seek the kingdom of God. These are joined together, and there is a great opposition
between seeking of the world, and seeking grace and glory. Whoever is careful in these things
cannot be diligent here. But rather seek the kingdom of God (Luke xii. 31) also implies, 5.
That whatever a man be, or his profession be, except he seek this way of righteousness, and
yield himself unto God’s kingdom of grace, and unless Christ rule in him, he is but a pagan,
or infidel Gentile, in God’s account. We return to the first of these, namely:

1st. That the Christian is a seeker. This is the ordinary description of a child of God, Psal.
xxiv. 6, Psal. xxvii. 8. Many, at this time, call themselves Seekers.(484) They profess they
seek a true church, and seek ordinances purely dispensed, but find none. But the child of God,
the good Christian that seeks according to Christ’s appointment, seeks not these things as
if they were not, but he seeks God in ordinances, he seeks Christ in the church, he seeks grace
and glory, honour and immortality, and eternal life. He is in the church, he hath the ordinances
rightly administered, yet he wants the most part, till he find Jesus Christ in all these. Many
seek corn, wine, or any worldly good thing, saying, “Who will show us any good?” Fie upon such
a lax and indifferent spirit, that hath no discretion or sense of things that are good, that
sees not one thing needful, and no more good than is necessary. But the child of God is a seeker
different from these also, he seeks the favour and countenance of God, Psal. iv. 6, 7. He seeks
wisdom above all things, Prov. ii. 4. He seeks but one good thing, because there is but one
good thing necessary. The seeking Christian is a wanter, one that hath nothing, and finds it
so. He wants, and knows he wants, else he would never seek. What wants he? Nay, rather ask,
what hath he? It may soon be told what he hath, but it is hard to tell what he wants. Look
what he hath, and ye find little or nothing, and therefore ye may conclude he wants all things.
The text tells what he wants: (1) He wants righteousness; (2) He wants grace; (3) He wants
glory, and hath no right to it.  Men seek not what they carry from the womb.  Therefore all
men have come into the world with three great wants. (1.) Ye want righteousness. Ye cannot
stand before God in the terms of strict justice.  There is nothing ye have, or can do, but
it is a menstruous cloth, Isa. lxiv. 6. All your religion and prayers will never commend you
to God’s holy justice. The scripture hath passed this sentence upon you all, “There is none
righteous, no not one,” Rom. iii. 10. The righteousness that the law of God requires is perfect,
and complete, and exact. Either lay down the whole sum, or if it want a farthing it is no payment.
Keep all the nine commands, but if ye break the tenth the nine will not suffice. Now all of
you have sinned and corrupted your ways, and it is impossible to make up the want. As the redemption
of the soul is precious and ceases for ever, so the broken and dyvour(485) man having become
a bankrupt, shall never make up or pay his debt to all eternity. He hath once broken the command,
and all your keeping afterwards will not stand for the obedience ye should always have given
to it.  Therefore sinners of the posterity of Adam, and wretched men by nature, see this great
want and impossibility to recover it in yourselves. (2.) Ye likewise want all grace by nature.
There is no delusion more ordinary than this, that the world thinks grace is very common. 
But believe it, Sirs, that all men came from the womb without grace, get it as ye will.  Look
what the scripture speaks of the whole race of Adam, “There is no fear of God before their
eyes,” Rom. iii. 18.  They are without Christ, without hope, and without God in the world,
aliens from the covenants of promise, Eph. ii. 1-3, 12.  Let grace be as common as can be,
yet all of you once wanted it.  Ye have it not by birth, nor by education, nor by baptism.
Ye think perhaps a baptized soul cannot be graceless, but know it for a truth that ye have
neither legal righteousness nor evangelical holiness.  All of you have wofully fallen from
righteousness, and therefore ye lie, with Adam’s posterity, without hope in the world Grace
and truth must come from above by Jesus Christ Grace and glory are the gifts of God. (3.) The
sinner also comes short of the glory of God, Rom. iii. 23.  All sinners are born heirs of hell
and wrath, without the hope of happiness.  There is none born with a title to the kingdom of
heaven, or any right to it.  Man in his fall lost his right to eternal life and immortality,
and hath purchased a doleful right to the Lord’s wrath and to hell fire.  Ye think it strange
that any christened or baptized person should be damned, but the scripture knows no difference.
“Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision availeth any thing, but a new creature, and faith
which worketh by love.”  Neither to be a member of the visible church nor a pagan avails any
thing, “for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.”  Now what have ye since ye
want righteousness?  Ye want grace and ye want glory, and in the place of these ye have unrighteousness,
all sin, all God’s curses and wrath, and this makes up complete misery.  In a word, ye want
God and Christ, and this is all, and enough for all, Eph. ii. 12.  Ye have, by nature, more
sibness(486) with Satan, and nearer relation to him, than to God, and if ye want God, what
can ye have beside?  Your abundance is want. As all things are theirs who are Christ’s, so
nothing is theirs who are not God’s.  In short, there is not in all the creation such a miserable
creature as man, whom God hath magnified and exalted above the angels, and the rest of the
works of his hands.  Now all men want these, but no man knows this but the Christian, whose
eyes Christ hath opened, and to whom he hath given eye salve.  Laodicea was blind and saw not,
but she thought she was rich enough, when she had nothing, Rev. iii. 17, 18.  The man, who
will discourse well on all the miseries of this life, and human infirmities, may be ignorant
of these things.  There is no man but knows some want.  But what is it he misses?  Nothing
but what concerns his present being and well being in this world, and so the world may supply
it.  But the Christian wants something this vain world will not make up. “Whom have I in heaven
but thee?  And there is none upon the earth I desire beside thee,” says the soul that hath
found God. And whom want I in heaven but thee? (Psal. lxxiii. 25, 26) says the soul that seeks
God.  He wants God’s favour, and the light of his reconciled countenance, Psal. iv. 6.  If
ye ask him, what seek ye, what want ye in all the world?  He answers, “And now. Lord, what
wait I for?”  My heart and “my hope is in thee,” Psal. xxxix. 7.  None needed ask at Mary,
“Whom seekest thou?” Any body that knows her, knows her want.  It is he, the Christ Jesus,
and she thinks all the world should want him, and seek him with her, and thinks no body should
be ignorant of him; for she speaks to the gardener, as if there had been no other in the world,
John xx. 15.  But,

2dly. His wants put him to seeking, to diligence.  He misses something, and O it is a great
something, infinitely more than he is worth in the world!  He wants being and well being. 
He thinks himself as good as lost, and he comes at length to some point of resolution, with
the lepers of Samaria, (2 Kings vii. 3, 4.) “Why sit we here till we die?  If we enter into
the city there is famine, if we sit still we perish, if we go out we may find bread.” And so
the poor soul, with Mordecai and Esther, comes to this conclusion, “If I perish, I perish;”
nothing but perishing as I am, I will go and seek salvation in Jesus Christ, and it may be
I will find it. Who knows but he may turn again?  Resolution is born a man at first, a giant.
It goes out to the utmost border of want the first day.  Wanting makes desire, and desire,
attended with some hope, makes up resolution and purpose, and when the soul is thus principled,
then in the third room,(487) it comes forth to action.  Desire and hope give legs to the soul
for the journey, and now the wanting Christian ye shall find with his hand in every good turn,
his feet in every ordinance.  Ye shall find him praying, reading, and hearing.  It is true,
resolution is born a man, and practice is born but a child, and scarcely will come up in many
years to the stature of resolution.  Always(488) diligence and violence is the qualification
of his practice, (Heb. xi. 6, Matth. xi. 12) and this is written upon his using of means, “How
love I the Lord!  I am sick of love.”  The Christian’s diligence in the use of means proclaims
his earnest desire to obtain, whereas many a man’s practice speaks but a coldrife and indifferent
spirit. That is a neutral who cares not whether he obtain or miss.  Some Christians have some
missings of God, and spiritual things, but alas! their want, and sight of want, makes them
twice miserable, because it puts not their hand to action.  The slothful and sluggard’s desire
slays him, because his hands refuse to labour, Prov. xxi. 25.  O!  but he finds many difficulties
in the way.  Though he have half a wish, or a raw(489) desire after Christ, yet it never comes
farther than a conditional wish. A beggar may wish to be a king.  He comes to no purpose in
it and therefore his way is called a hedge of thorns.  Whereas a seeking Christian finds a
plain path where he goes, Prov. xv. 19.  The sluggard says, “There is a lion in the way, and
a lion in the streets.” He concludes upon the means and duties of religion before ever he try
them, Prov. xxii. 13, Prov. xix. 24.  How lazy is he!  He will not bring his hand out of his
bosom, when he hath put it in.  Thus the lazy and secure Christian is a brother to a great
waster, his desire consumes him. He hath no more religion than a spunk(490) of desire; and
he sits down with this spark of his own kindling, and the life of religion thrives not upon
his hand, Prov. xviii. 9, 12. His seeking must have violence with it, Matth. xi. 12.  But we
may also observe concerning the Christian, that he is,

3dly. Defined on this side of time as a seeker.  In heaven he is an enjoyer, and he seeks no
more; for how can the ox low over his fodder?  He sits down to eat the fruit and sweat of his
labour, and well may he triumphantly say, as the ancient philosopher said, “I have found, I
have found.”(491) But here he is a seeker still.  Whatever he miss, he is still a seeker, and
whatever he find, he is yet a seeker. He is named not from his finding, but his seeking, not
from his enjoyment or attainment, but from his endeavour and aim. Though he find righteousness
in Jesus, and remission of sins, yet he is a seeker of grace; though he be justified, yet he
seeks holiness. There are many who would seek no more of God than pardon of sin. Let him deliver
them from hell, and they will trouble God with no more requests. Doth not some of your own
consciences speak, that ye would seek no more from Christ than to be saved from an ill hour,
and to be found in him; whereas Paul was not content with this, but made an holy gradation,
as we read, Philip iii. 8, &c. He desired to know the power of Christ’s resurrection, and to
be made conformable to him by any means; and now, when he is found in Christ, and justified,
he counts not himself well, or perfect and complete, or to have attained that which he struggled
earnestly for. Would not many be content with a Saviour, but they love not to hear of a king
to rule over them, nor of his laws to regulate their lives by? They love an imputed holiness,
as well as righteousness. But the true seeker seeks grace within him. Though he be justified,
or freed from guilt and condemnation, and have the righteousness of Christ to cover him, and
though he should never come into condemnation for sin, yet he seeks the death and destruction
of it in his soul, and the life of holiness implanted and perfected in his inward man. Though
he is sure of heaven, yet he would have God’s image upon his spirit, and whole man.

4thly. Whatever degree of grace he have or attain, yet he is still a wanter, and still a seeker.
He counts not himself to have attained, or to be already perfect, but presses forward to gain
the mark and prize of God’s high calling, Phil. iii. 13, 14. He stands at no pitch, but forgets
what is behind, and overlooks it, he thinks it not worthy to come in reckoning. There is still
so much before his hand, that he apprehends it to be lost time to reckon what is passed. His
aim is to perfect holiness in the fear of God. He endeavours to be holy as God is holy, who
is the completest pattern of unspotted purity and uprightness, and to be holy in all manner
of conversation. He goes from strength to strength, till he appear blameless before God; he
seeks grace for grace, Psal. lxxxiv. 5-8. And truly the man who seeks the exact copy or pattern,
Jesus Christ, who is gone before his people into heaven, and he who knows the spiritual command
in all its dimensions, he will not say “I have found,” but will still want more than he hath,
and seek what he wants. There are some professors who have attained some pitch and degree,
as it were, the first day, and never advance further. They have gotten a gift of prayer, some
way of discharging duties, some degree in profession, and they want no more. Look on them some
years after, and ye would say, they have sought no more. And truly he who seeks no more shall
never be able to keep what he hath already, as a fire must soon die away if ye add not new
fuel to it. Christians are not green in old age, because they have come to a pitch in their
religion, and stand there. No, religion should not come to its stature hereaway.(492) This
is but the time of its minority. Grace should be still on the growing hand. The grace of God
is but a child here. Heaven and eternity make up the man. Glory is the man, who was once the
child grace.

5thly. The good Christian is still a seeker till Christ be all in all, till he apprehend that
for which he is apprehended. As long as he is in this world he is a seeker. Whereof, ye will
say? Not only of more grace here, but of glory hereafter. Here he hath no continuing city,
but he seeks one to come, Heb. xiii. 14. He is a pilgrim on earth, embracing the promises afar
off, and seeking his country, even heaven itself, Heb. xi. 13, &c. All your present enjoyments
in this world, your own houses and lands, would not make you think yourselves at home, if ye
were Christians at the heart. Ye would miss consolation, ye would want happiness in the affluence
of all created things. And therefore, Christians, do ye want nothing when all things go according
to your mind? Is there no hole in your heart that a world cannot fill up? This is not well.
Ye ought to seek a city, while ye are in your own country, and ye should never think yourselves
at home till ye be in heaven. The Christian gets some taste of the fruits of the land, some
clusters in the wilderness and house of his pilgrimage, and this makes him long to be there.
This inflames the soul’s desire, and turns it all in motion to seek that which was so sweet.
If hope be so sweet, what shall the thing possessed be? If a grape brought a savour and taste
so refreshful, what must the grapes plucked from the tree of life be, and the rivers of pleasures,
which are at God’s right hand, for evermore be? Sit not down then, Christians, upon your enjoyments,
whether they be worldly or spiritual, but aspire to high things.

Sermon XVI.

    Matth. vi. 33.—“But seek ye first the kingdom of God,” &c.

II. The Christian’s chief employment should be to seek the kingdom of God, and the righteousness
thereof. “Seek first,” &c. Upon this he should first and chiefly spend his thoughts, and affections,
and pains. We comprehend it in three things. First, He should seek to be clothed upon with
Christ’s righteousness, and this ought to take up all his spirit. This is the first care and
the chief concern. Did not this righteousness weigh much with Paul, when he counted all things
but loss and dung, that he might be found in Christ, not having his own righteousness, but
the righteousness which is by faith in Jesus Christ? Phil. iii. 8, 9. Now this righteousness
is of more concernment than all the world beside. For it is God’s righteousness, (Rom. x. 3,
4; 2 Cor. v. 21.) and this holds out a threefold excellence in it. (1.) It is God’s righteousness,
because he alone devised it, and found it out. All the world could not have imagined a way
possible to save lost mankind, or ever one sinner of that wretched number. Satisfaction to
justice was needful, and there was none righteous among Adam’s posterity. But here God himself
in his everlasting counsel hath found it out, and all hath flowed from his love. The mission
of Jesus Christ to be the propitiation for our sins, comes from this blessed fountain, 1 John
iv. 9, 10; Rom. iii. 24, 25. God hath been framing this righteousness from all eternity, and
even this world seems to be made for this end. All God’s dispensation with Adam, his making
a covenant of works with him, his mutability and liableness to fall, and so governing all things
in his holy providence that he should fall from his own righteousness, and involve all his
posterity in the same condemnation with himself,—all this seems to be in respect of God’s intention
and purpose, even ordained for this end, that the righteousness of Jesus Christ might be commended
to you, far more than all the dispensation of the law upon Sinai, more than the curse and the
command, the thunder and the lightning. The very condemnation of the scripture was all in God’s
own mind and revealed will also, as the means appointed to lead sinners to this righteousness,
Rom. x. 4. Therefore, how precious should that be to us, that God keeps and preserves the world
for?

(2.) By this righteousness alone, we can stand before God, and therefore it is termed God’s
righteousness; and is not this enough to make it lovely in the eyes of all men? This is the
righteousness without the law, though it was witnessed both by the law and the prophets. This
is the only righteousness that justifies, when all men are found guilty before God, Rom. iii.
19, &c. Now, what is it in this world can profit you, if ye want this? Condescend(493) upon
all your pleasures and heart-wishes, let you have them all, and now, poor soul, pray what hast
thou? Though thou hast gained the world, thou losest thy soul, that thou should use the world
with? Let you then get what you so eagerly pursue in the world, what will ye do when your soul
is required by the hand of justice? “Then whose shall these things be?” Luke xii. 20, 21. By
all these things, a man neither knows love nor hatred, as Solomon speaks of external enjoyments,
Eccles. ix. 1. But hear the way, O men! how ye may stand before God; here it is only. Will
it profit you to enjoy the world, and bless God? And when all these things leave you, and ye
leave them, what will ye do,—for riches will not go to the grave with you? All that is here
cannot help you in that day, when ye must stand before the Judge of all flesh. If a man be
not found in Christ he is gone, and if he be found in him, then the destroying angel passes
by, death hath a commission to do him good, God is become his friend in Jesus. If ye could
walk never so blamelessly in this world, all this will not come as righteousness in God’s sight,
nor stand before him. It is only the righteousness of Christ that can be a covering to sinners.
But,

(3.) This is God’s righteousness, because it is the righteousness of Christ who is truly God,
and so it is divine. This is the most excellent piece in all the creation, that comes from
Jesus Christ his life, death, and resurrection. And let all men’s inherent holiness blush here
and be ashamed. Let all your prayers, good wishes, your religious obedience be ashamed, let
them evanish as the stars before the sun. The righteousness of Christ is the bright sun that
makes all the dim sparkles of nature, civil honesty, and even religious education, disappear.
Let even angels blush before him, for they are not clean in his sight, but may be charged with
folly. Innocent Adam was also a glorious creature, but the second Adam, the life-giving Spirit
and the Lord from heaven, hath an infinitely transcendent and supereminent excellency and prerogative
beyond him, and all the creation of God. Look then upon this Jesus how he is described, as
the “brightness of the Father’s glory and the express image of his person,” (Heb. i. 1-3; Col.
i. 15, &c.) and wonder that such a glorious one should become our righteousness, that he should
take our sins upon him, (2 Cor. v. 21; 1 Pet. ii. 24) and make over his righteousness to us.
This is the righteousness of the saints in heaven, Rev. xix. 8. This is the glory of the spirits
of just men made perfect. Think ye, my friends, that the glorious saints shall wear their own
holiness upon their outside in heaven? No, no, the righteousness of Christ shall cover them,
and that shall be the upper-garment that all the host of heaven must glory in. Now this is
the thing that the child newborn, if he had the use of reason, should first cry for, before
he ever get the breast, to be reconciled to God in Christ. Would ye then spend your time and
thoughts upon other things, if ye knew what need ye have of his righteousness, and how suitable
it were to your need? Should not the beggar seek food and clothing? Should not the sick man
seek health, and the poor man riches? Here they are all in Christ’s righteousness. Ye are under
the curse of God. This righteousness redeems from the curse. Ye are sinners, and none of you
righteous, no not one. But Christ was made sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness
of God in him. O sinners, wonder at the change! Hath Christ taken on your sins, that his righteousness
might become yours, and will ye not do so much as seek it? But many a man beguiles his own
soul, and thinks he seeks this righteousness in the gospel. Therefore ye would know what it
is to seek his righteousness. If ye seek it, ye want your own righteousness. And who of you
have come this length, to judge yourselves that ye be not judged? It is a great difficulty
to convince the multitude of sin. That general notion, that we are all sinners, is but the
delusion that many souls perish in. Never any will deny themselves to seek another righteousness,
till they be beaten and driven out of their own. 8, 9.) that ye have seen all your own privileges
and duties loss, and are ye even sensible that prayer will no more help you than the cutting
off a dog’s neck? Ye that lay so much weight upon your being baptized, and upon outward privileges,
are ye void of righteousness? No, ye seek to establish your own, and do not submit to the righteousness
of God. In a word, all who are ignorant of this righteousness of God in Christ, ye all seek
to establish your own. There needs more. But not one of twenty of you can tell what this is,
it is a mystery. Ask at any of you, how ye shall be saved, ye will say, by prayer to God, and
the mercy of God. Ye cannot tell the necessity of Christ’s coming into the world.

Secondly, Ye must see an impossibility to attain a righteousness, or to stand before God another
way. When ye miss this righteousness and are convinced of sin, it is not the running to prayer
will help or mend it. When ye see the broken covenant, ye fall upon doing something, to mend
your faults, with some good turns, and some will make a few good works answer all the challenges
of sin. Alas! this is a seeking of your own righteousness. Many a poor broken man seeks to
make up his fortune. Poor wretched sinners are building up the breach of the old covenant,
putting up props under an old ruinous house, seeking to establish it, and rear it up again.
But ye will never seek Christ till ye cannot do better, till ye be desperate of helping yourselves
without him. Now I appeal to your consciences. Who among you was ever serious in this matter,
to examine your own condition, whether you were enemies or friends? Ye took it for granted
all your days. But never a man will betake himself to an imputed righteousness, but only he
that flies, taking with(494) his enmity, and is pursued by the avenger of blood, and flies
in to this righteousness as a city of refuge.

Thirdly, Ye must seek this righteousness, and what is it to seek it? It is even to take it
and to receive it. It is brought to your door. It is offered. And the convinced sinner hath
no more to do but hearken, and this righteousness is brought near unto him. Prayer to God,
and much dealing with him, is one of the ways of obtaining this righteousness. But coming to
Jesus Christ is the comprehensive short gate,(495) and therefore it is called “the righteousness
of faith,” and “the righteousness of God by faith.” Now shall ye be called seekers of Christ’s
righteousness, who will not receive it when it is offered? Ye who have so many objections and
scruples against the gospel and the application of it, ye in so far are not seekers, but refusers
of the gospel, and disobedient. Christ’s righteousness should meet with a seeker not a disputer.
Any thing God allows you to seek, certainly he allows you to take and receive it, when it is
brought unto you. And therefore, whoever have need of Jesus Christ, not only refuse him not,
but stay not till they find him come to them. This is a noble resolution, I will give myself
no rest till I be at a point in this. Seek him as a hid treasure, as that which your happiness
depends upon.

(1) The kingdom of grace is worthy of all your affections and pains. That despised thing in
the world called grace is the rarest piece of the creation, and if we could look on it aright,
we would seek grace, and follow after it. Grace extracts a man out of the multitude of men
that are all of one mass. Grace separates him from the rest of the world, and to this purpose
are these usual phrases in scripture, “Such were some of you,” “Once ye were darkness, but
now are ye light in the Lord,” “Among whom ye had your conversation in times past, fulfilling
the desires of the flesh.” All men are alike by nature and birth, there is no difference. Grace
brought to light by the gospel makes the difference, and separates the few chosen vessels of
glory and mercy from the world, and now “they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.”
All the rest of men’s aims and endeavours cannot do this. Learning makes not a man a Christian.
Honour makes not a man differ from a Gentile or Pagan. Riches make you no better than infidels.
Speak of what ye will, you shall never draw a man entirely out of the cursed race of Adam,
never distinguish him from Gentiles before God, till the Spirit of regeneration blow where
he listeth. And this is grace’s prerogative, beyond all other things. All other excellent gifts,
even the gift of preaching, praying, all these are common, so to speak, and in a manner befall
to all alike. Your external calling is but common, but he gives grace to all his chosen ones.
But (2) Grace puts a man in a new kingdom. It draws a man out of Satan’s kingdom, and makes
him a king, who before was a subject. The man was led captive by sin and Satan at their pleasure.
He served his own corrupt lusts and the prince of this world. Sin reigneth in his mortal body,
whatever his passion and corruption did put him to, he could have no bridle, but as a horse
went on to the battle. And ye may see daily that there is scarce one of an hundred that is
master of himself. He is a servant of sin, but grace makes him a priest and a king, Rev. i.
6, chap. v. 8, 10. He can now command himself. Sin reigned before unto death, but now grace
reigns through righteousness unto eternal life, Rom. v. 20, 21. And O! but this victory over
a man’s self is more than a man’s conquering a strong city. This victory is more than all the
triumphs and trophies of the world’s conquerors. For they could not conquer themselves, the
little world, but were slaves to their own lusts. Some men talk of great spirits that can bear
no injury. Nay, but such a spirit is the basest spirit. The noble spirit is that spirit which
can despise these things, and be above them. Grace puts men upon a throne of eminence above
the world. The Spirit of God makes a man of a noble spirit. (3) Grace translates a man from
Satan’s kingdom to God, and makes him a subject, a free born subject, of God or Christ’s kingdom,
and therefore Christ is the “King of saints,” Rev. xv. 3. Our Lord and Saviour hath an “everlasting
kingdom,” 2 Pet. i. 11. We were subjects of the powers of darkness, but grace makes the translation
into the kingdom of God’s own dear Son, Col. i. 13. Now what an unspeakable privilege is this,
to be one of Christ’s subjects, who is our dear Saviour and King! Surely we must all be great
courtiers. David, the great king of Israel, had this for his chief dignity, his style of honour,
“the servant of the Lord,” as kings use to write down themselves; and this was his title, “servant
of God.” Paul gloried much in this, “Paul, an apostle and servant of Jesus Christ.” And surely
all the families of heaven and earth may think it their highest honour to get liberty to bow
their knees to Jesus, the “King of kings, and Lord of lords,” the first-born of God’s creation.
The converted man is turned from the power of Satan to God. Mark but the emphasis of these
two terms. Mark the whence or from,—that it is from Satan, the great destroyer of mankind,
the first transgressor and deceiver. And how great is his power, tyranny, and dominion! He
had us all in chains reserved for the day of judgment. But to what a happy change grace turns
us, from him! But the term to, which is more admirable, it is to God, to Christ, to true religion,
to God himself most High. And O! but this must be a more wonderful and excellent change than
our conversion from darkness to light, from hell to heaven. These are but shadows of this glorious
conversion. (4) Grace makes a man likewise a “partaker of the divine nature,” 2 Pet. i. 4.
This is the image and glory of God. This is the imitation and resemblance of God’s spotless
holiness and purity, “Be ye holy, as I am holy,” 1 Pet. i. 15, 16. Every creature hath some
dark characters of God. Some things speak his power, some things his wisdom, but this he hath
called his own image. And so the Christian is more like unto God than all the world beside.
This is the magnifying of a man, and making him but “a little lower than the angels,” Psal.
viii. 3, 4. Therefore God loves grace better than all the creation. Holiness is a great beauty,
and God requires to be worshipped in the beauties of it. Albeit grace be often clouded with
infirmities, and sometimes is reckoned despicable, because of the vessel it is in, yet it is
precious as the finest gold, and more precious than any rubies. It is like gold in ashes, not
the less excellent in itself, though it appear not so. But sin is the devil’s image and likeness,
and therefore Satan is called the father of sinners. “Ye are of your father the devil, and
the lusts of your father ye will do.” O but sin hath an ugly shape! It is the only spot in
the face of the creation which God’s soul abhors. For he loves righteousness, and hates iniquity,
Psal. xlv. 6, 7. But there is one thing more, (5) That may commend grace to all your hearts.
Grace is the way to glory. It gives title and right to, or at least declares it. It is inseparably
joined with it. Grace is glory in the bud, and glory is the flower of grace, grace is young
glory, and glory is old grace. Without holiness it is impossible to see God’s face in peace.
No man can come unto heaven without grace. Glorification is the first link of the chain, Rom.
viii. 30. But sanctification must intervene first. No unclean thing can enter into heaven,
but he that gives grace, gives glory, Psal. lxxxiv. 11. Heaven cannot receive many of you,
because ye have not holiness. But it may commend holiness unto you, that it ministers an abundant
entrance “into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.” As much as eternity
is beyond the poor span of your time, so much is grace and holiness, whereon depends your everlasting
condition, preferable to all things of this present vain world. O! but the children of men
have many vain pursuits of the creature, that when it is had is nothing and vanity. Ye labour
to secure an inch of your being, and to have contentment here in this half day, and never look
beyond it to many millions of ages, when ye are to continue.  Your honour, your pleasure, your
gain, your credit, many such things like these can have no influence on the next world. These
cannot go through death with you. Only grace and holiness, begun here, are consummated in glory,
and make the poor man, that was miserable for a moment, eternally happy.

Sermon XVII. The heavens, the sun and moon, in respect of lower things here, how glorious do
they appear, and without spot! But behold, they are not clean in God’s sight! How far are the
angels above us who dwell in clay! They appear to be a pure mass of light and holiness, yet
even these glorious beings cannot behold this light without covering their faces. These God
may charge with folly. “God is light,” saith the apostle, 1 John i. 5. This is his peculiar
glory, for “in him there is no darkness at all.” Is there any thing more excellent and divine
than to seek God, and find him, and enjoy him? Yet even that holds forth the emptiness of the
creature in its own bosom, that cannot be satiated within, but must come forth to seek happiness.
Nay, even the greatest perfection of the creature speaks out the creature’s own self indigence
most, because its happiness is the removal from itself unto another, even unto God the fountain
of life.

Now the enjoyment of this “kingdom of God” mentioned in the text, holds forth man’s own insufficiency
for well being within himself. But seeking this kingdom declares a double want, a want of it
altogether. Not only hath he it not in himself, but not at all, and so must go out and seek
it. God is blessed in himself, and self sufficient, and all sufficient to others. Without is
nothing but what has flowed from his inexhausted fulness within, so that, though he should
stop the conduit, by withdrawing his influence, and make all the creatures to evanish as a
brook, or a shadow, he should be equally in himself blessed. “Darkness and light are both alike
to thee,” says David in another sense, Psal. cxxxix. 11, 12. And indeed they are all one in
this sense, that he is no more perfected and bettered, when all the innumerable company of
angels, and the spirits of just men made perfect, follow him with an eternal song, nor(496)
before the mountains and hills were, when nothing was brought forth. Many thousand more worlds
would add nothing to him, nor diminish anything from him. It is not so with man, he is bounded
and limited, he cannot have well being in his own breast. He was indeed created with it in
the enjoyment of God, which was his happiness, so that he had it not to seek, but to keep,
he had it not to follow after, but to hold it still fast. But now, alas! he hath lost that,
and become miserable. Once all Adam’s posterity were void of happiness. By catching at a present
shadow of pleasure, and satisfaction to his senses, he lost this excellent substance of blessedness
in communion with God. Now, how shall this be recovered again? How shall this pearl of great
price be found?

Certainly we must agree upon two principles, and according to them walk, ere we come within
reach of this. It is a great question that is of more moment than all the debates among men,—how
shall man’s ruin be made up, and the treasure be found? If ye think it concerns you, I pray
you hearken to this, and condescend(497) upon these two grounds, that the question may be right
stated. One is, we have all lost happiness, fallen from the top of our excellency into the
lowest dungeon of misery. We are cast down from heaven to hell. There needs not much to persuade
you of the truth of this in general.     But alas! who ponders it in their hearts? And until
ye think more seriously upon it, ye will never be serious in the search for reparation of it.
All of you by your daily experience find that ye are miserable creatures. Ye have no satisfaction
nor contentment. Ye are compassed about with many infirmities and griefs. But this is but an
appendix of your misery. All the calamities of this life are but a consequent, a little stream
of that boundless ocean of misery that is yet insensible to you. Therefore enter into your
own hearts, and consider what Adam once was, and what ye now are, nay, what ye will all quickly
be, if God prevent it not. We are born heirs of wrath and hell. It is not only the infinite
loss of that blessed sight of his face for evermore, which an eternal enjoyment of creature
pleasures could not compensate the want of, one hour; but it is the kingdom of darkness, and
the devil that we are all born to inherit. Let this then once take root in your heart, that
ye are in extreme misery, and that a remedy must be provided, else ye must perish. Now when
this principle is established, ye must agree upon this also. “But out of myself I must go.
Blessedness I must have. It is not in me. While I look in, there is nothing but all kind of
emptiness, and, which is worse, all kind of misery. Not only the common lot of creatures (that
none is sufficient to its own well being) is incident to me, but I have lost that being which
I had in another, which was my well being, and do now possess, or shall shortly possess, all
misery.” Now, are ye settled upon these two? I am not happy, I must go out of myself to find
it. It is not in me, in my flesh dwells no good thing, in my spirit and flesh both, is nothing
good. Ask then this great question, Whither shall I go? What shall I do to find it? All men
know they must seek it. But Christ tells where they shall seek it, and whither they shall go.
The word of the gospel is for this very purpose to answer this question. If we were sensible
that we had lost happiness, certainly we would be earnest in this question, where shall it
be recovered? What shall I seek after? And no answer would satisfy but the gospel itself, that
directs unto the very fountain of life, and holds “forth the kingdom of God” as the true happiness
of men to be sought. “Seek ye first,” says Christ, “the kingdom of God,” and the righteousness
thereof. Here only is a solid answer. Seek me, for I am eternal life, I am the life and the
light of men. Shall not death be found, if I leave life? It were madness not to seek thee,
but what shall it be called to leave thee, when I have found and tasted thee to be so good?
Every man misses happiness and justification within himself, and so is upon the search after
it. But is it not strange, that all the experiences of nations and generations conjoined in
one, cannot hold forth even a probable way of attaining it? Gather them all in one, the sum
and result is, “We have heard the fame thereof with our ears,” but “it is hid from the eyes
of all living,” as we read more fully, and should apply, what Job said of wisdom, to the true
happiness of man, Job xxviii. 12, to the end of that chapter. Certainly there is some fundamental
and common mistake among men. They know not what was once man’s happiness, and so it is impossible
they can seek the right remedy. Look upon us all, what do we seek after? It is some present
thing, some bodily and temporal thing, that men apprehend their happiness lies in, and so whether
they attain it or not, or being attained, it doth not answer our expectation, and thus still
are we disappointed, and our base scent becomes a vain pursuit, whether we overtake it or not.
Every man proposes this within himself as the principle of his life and conversation, what
shall I seek after? What shall I spend most of my time and affections upon, to drive at? And
alas! all men, save those whose eyes the Spirit openeth, err in the very foundation. One man
propones honour to himself, another pleasure, and a third riches, and the most part seek all
of them, some accommodation and satisfaction in a present world. And almost every man conceives
he would be blessed, if he had that which he wants, and sees another have.

Now while men’s designs are thus established, all must be wrong. The ship is gone forth, but
it will never land on the coast of happiness. And thus we see men seek many things. They are
divided among many thoughts and cares, because no one thing is found that can satisfy, and
so we have put ourselves upon an endless journey to go through all the creatures. Neither one
nor all together have what we want, and neither one nor all can be had or possessed with assurance,
though we had it. But the gospel comes to lay a right foundation, and frame a right principle
within us. “Seek ye first the kingdom of God.” Here is the principal design that should be
driven at and if men would make it, and follow it, O how should they be satisfied with the
fulness of that kingdom, the vast dimensions of it, the incorruptibleness of it!

Now there is one of two you must fall upon, either many things, or one thing. All that a man
can seek after is here ranked. If all other things be equal, it is a kind of torment to have
so many doors to go to for help. If a man could have all in one, he would think many things
a great vexation and burden. If any one thing had in it as much as to answer all our necessities,
that one thing would be of great price, beyond many things, having but so much virtue among
them all. I shall suppose then, that there were real satisfaction and happiness to be found
in the affluence and conjunction of all created things here, that there was some creature that
could answer every necessity of men, yet, I say, would ye not exchange all that variety and
multitude, if ye could find one thing that did all that to the full, that so many did but no
more? Then certainly ye would choose a variety in one thing beyond the scattered satisfaction
in many things. But when it is not to be found in all these things, and though it were, yet
all these are not consistent together, then of necessity we must make another search. I say
then, in the name of Jesus Christ, that if ye seek satisfaction in this present world, ye shall
be disappointed. Ye may be all your days sowing and ploughing, but ye shall not see the harvest.
Ye shall never reap the fruit of your labour, but in the end of your days shall be fools, and
see yourselves to have been so, when ye thought yourselves wise. I shall also suppose that
ye have attained what ye have with so much vexation toiled for, that ye had your barns and
coffers full, that all the varieties of human delights were still attending you, that ye were
set upon a throne of eminency above others, and in a word, that ye had all that your soul desired,
so that no room was left empty for more desire, and no more grief entered into your hearts.
Are ye blessed for all that? No certainly, if ye do but consider that with all ye may lose
your own souls, and that quickly, and that your spirits must remove out of that palace of pleasure
and delight into eternal torment, and then count, are ye blessed or not? What gained ye? It
is madness to reckon upon this life, it is so inconsiderable when compared with eternity. A
kingdom, what is it, when a man shall be deprived for evermore of the kingdom of God, and inhabit
the kingdom of darkness under the king of terrors? Do ye think a stageplayer a happy man that
for an hour hath so much mirth and attendance, and for all his lifetime is kept in prison without
the least drop of these comforts? Will not such a man’s momentary satisfaction make hell more
unsatisfying, and add grounds of bitterness to his cup? For it is misery to have been happy.

Nay, but this is a fancied supposal. All this, how small soever it be, was never, and never
shall be, within the reach of any living. Ye may reckon beforehand, and lay down two things
as demonstrated by scripture and all men’s experience. One is,—all is vanity and vexation of
spirit under the sun. All that ye can attain by your endeavours for an age, and by sweating
and toiling, will not give you one hour’s satisfaction, without some want, some vexation, either
in wanting or possessing. Nay, though you had all, it could not give you satisfaction. The
soul could not feed upon these things. They would be like silver and gold, which could not
save a starving man, or nourish him as meat and drink doth. A man cannot be happy in a marble
palace, for the soul is created with an infinite capacity to receive God, and all the world
will not fill his room. Another is,—that it is impossible for you to attain all these things.
One thing is inconsistent with another, and your necessity requires both. Now then, how shall
ye be satisfied when they cannot meet? I think, then, the spirits of the most part of us do
not rise very high to seek great things in this world, we are in such a lot among men. I mean
that we have not great expectation of wealth, pleasures, honours, or such like. Oh then so
much the more take heed to this, and see what ye resolve to seek after! Ye do not expect much
satisfaction here. Then I pray you hearken to this one thing, seek the kingdom of God.

This kingdom of heaven and righteousness are equivalent unto, nay they exceedingly surpass,
all the scattered perfections and goodness among these many things, or all things that God
hath promised to add to them in the text. Why should I say equivalent? Alas, there is no comparison.
“For I reckon (says Paul, Rom. viii. For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for
the manifestation of the sons of God.” What this kingdom is in itself, is beyond our conception,
but all these things which God will add thereunto, are to be considered only as an appendix
to it. Is not heaven an excellent kingdom? All that ye are now toiling about, and taking thought
for, these, “all these things” (as a consequent to itself), food and raiment, and such like,
“shall be given you” as your heavenly Father judges fit. “For godliness (says the apostle,
1 Tim. iv. 8), is profitable unto all things having the promise of this life,” as well as of
“the life to come.” I think then, if all men would but rationally examine this business, they
would be forced to cry out against the folly and madness of too many men, who have their portion
only in this life, Psal. xvii. 14. What is it ye seek? Ye flee from godliness as your great
enemy. Ye think religion an adversary to this life, and the pleasures of it. Nay, but it is
a huge mistake, for it hath the promise of this life, and that which is to come. Ye cannot
abide to have Christ’s kingdom within you. Ye will not have him to rule over you. Ye will not
renounce self, and your own righteousness. But consider, O men, that here is that which ye
should seek after. Here is wealth, and honour, and long life, and pleasures at God’s right
hand for evermore. Ye seek many things first, and ye will not seek this one thing needful,
Luke x. 41, 42. But here is the way to get what ye seek more certainly and solidly, “Seek first
the kingdom of God and his righteousness,” and all these other things will come of will. Ye
need not seek them, for your heavenly Father knows best what ye need. Behold what a satisfying
portion this kingdom is. When the pitch and height of men’s attainments in this world is but
a consectary, an appendicle of it, what must this kingdom be in itself, when all these things
follow as attendants? Here then is one thing, worth all, and more than all, even Jesus Christ,
who is all in all, Col. iii. 10, 11. Ye speak of many kingdoms, nay, but here is one kingdom,
the kingdom of grace and glory, that hath in it eminently all that is scattered among all things.
It unites us to Jesus Christ, “in whom all the fulness of the Godhead dwells, and ye are complete
in him, who is the head of all principality and power,” Col. ii. 9, 10. In his house is fatness,
and ye shall be satisfied with this, and drink of these rivers of everlasting pleasures that
are at his right hand, Psal. xxxvi. 8, 9, xvi. 11. 7. 19, 20. When the sight of it afar off,
and the taste of it in this wilderness, is of so much virtue, what shall the drinking of that
wellhead be, when the soul shall be drowned in it?

As these things are divided,—on the one side, many things, and on the other, one kingdom more
worth than all, so are men divided accordingly. On the one hand are the nations and Gentiles,
on the other a poor handful. Ye my disciples, “Seek ye,” says Christ, “first the kingdom of
God, and his righteousness, and all these things,” what ye shall eat, and what ye shall drink,
or wherewithal ye shall be clothed, “shall be added.” For after all these things the Gentiles
seek, and your Father knoweth that ye have need of them. 29, 31. Now this division hath been
always in the world. “For many say, (Psal. iv. 6, 7), Who will show us any good?” But they
who have their affections gathered in one channel toward one thing, are as it were but one
man. They have their way scattered, their gain lies in many arts. Many things they must seek,
because they forsake the one thing necessary. When they forsake the one fountain of living
water, they must dig up, and hew out to themselves many broken cisterns, that can hold no water,
no one to help another. This is even proclaimed by the conversation of a great part of the
world. Do ye not declare this, by your eager pursuit of this world, and the things of it, and
your careful thoughts of it, that ye have no mind(498) of eternity, or the kingdom to come?
Ye seek nothing but things here, and these do not descend after you. Be persuaded, I beseech
you, be persuaded of this, that when ye have your hearts below, that ye are no better, the
most part of you, than pagans. Ye have this pretence, that it is necessary to live and follow
some calling. It is true indeed. But is it not more necessary to live for ever after death
than for a moment? Godliness will not prejudge this life or thy calling, but ye seek after
these things, as if ye were to live eternally in this vain world. Ye could toil no more, take
no more thought for a million of ages, than ye do now for the morrow. This prejudges and shuts
out all thoughts of heaven or hell. Ye are called to a kingdom. This is offered unto you. Will
ye be so mad as to refuse it, and embrace the dunghill, and scrape it still together? We declare
unto you in his name, who is truth itself, that if ye will be persuaded to be Christians indeed,
ye shall have these outward things ye have need of, without care and anxiety, which now ye
are tormented for. And for superfluities, what need ye care for them? A reasonable man should
despise them, and much more a Christian. If ye would not be as pagans without the church, ye
must be sober in these things, mortified and dead unto them. There shall be no real difference
between thee and a heathen, in the day of appearing before Christ’s tribunal, O Christian,
except thou hast denied and despised this world, and sought principally the things that are
above. Is Christianity no more, I pray you, but a name? Ye would all be called Christians.
Why will ye not be so indeed? For the name will never advantage you, but in the day of judgment
it shall be the greatest accession and weight unto your guiltiness, and also to your judgment.
Ye would all now be accounted Christians, but if ye be not so in truth, and in deed, the day
will come that ye shall wish from your soul ye had wanted the name also, and had lived among
these Gentiles and pagans whose conversation ye did follow. For it shall be more tolerable
for the covetous worldly pagan in that day, than the covetous Christian.

Oh that ye were once persuaded that there is an inconsistency in them, who seek these many
things, and this one kingdom. “But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness,”
in opposition to the Gentiles seeking of many things. Ye may seek the world, but if ye seek
it, seek it as if ye sought it not, if ye use it use it as if ye used it not, or use the world
as those who do not abuse it, knowing that the fashion thereof passes away. Certainly ye cannot
with all seek grace and glory, 1 Cor. ii. 29, 32. Those who are not naturally covetous and
greedy, who are not still in anxiety and perplexity about the things of the world, will possibly
conceive themselves free. Nay, but look upon the division that Christ makes. Was there not
many a heathen man among the nations, as free of that covetousness noted among men? Were there
not as gallant spirits among them, that cared as little for riches as any of us,—nay, men every
way of a more smooth and blameless carriage than the most part of us are? Yet behold the construction
that Christ puts on them, “after all these things do the nations seek.” I think many of them
have declaimed more against the baseness of covetous spirits,(499) than many Christian preachers,
and in the very practice of it have outstripped the most part of the Christian world. Yet in
the scripture sense, even all these who have cried down the world, are but lovers of it, and
of themselves too. How can this be? It is certain every man is composed of desires and breathings
after some thing without himself. Some men’s desires are more shallow and low than others.
One man hath honour in admiration, and may despise riches. Another follows his pleasures and
may neglect both these. Nay, possibly a man may be moderate in all these things, so that none
can challenge him, and yet he is but a lover of the world. It is the master he serves, and
the idol he worshippeth, because no man wants one, or many idols, something to take up his
affection and desires. Now though such a man seems moderate in these, in comparison of others
whose hearts run more after them, yet, because there is no other thing, that does take up his
heart so much as these, he is but in Christ’s account among the heathen nations. Some of you
are not in great expectations, ye have but mean projects, ye seem content with few things,
ye are not vexing yourselves as others do, but let the world come and go as it pleases, without
much disquiet. This, I say, may be the temper of some natural spirits, yet I ask such of you,
is there any thing else ye seek more after, or spend more time and thought upon, and what is
that? Is there any other thing ye are more taken up with, than your present ease and accommodation
in this life? No certainly, ye cannot say so, however your projects be mean and low, yet they
are confined within time and things present, and the kingdom of grace and glory comes not much
in your mind. Then, I say, thou art but a lover of the world. Mammon is thy god. Thou seekest
not the kingdom of heaven, and shalt not obtain it. For that which the nations seek after is
thy predominant.

Will ye then, I beseech you, gather in your hearts to consider this. Is it a light matter we
speak of, life or death? Doth it not concern you as much as you are worth? Therefore consider
it as seriously as if you were going hence to be no more. Many of you will not grant worldly
mindedness a sin. When ye make it a god, and sacrifice unto it, ye fancy that ye are seeking
heaven. I pray you do not deceive your souls. Give them as good measure as ye would do your
bodies in any thing. Would ye say ye were seeking after any thing, I suppose to find such a
friend to speak to, would ye, I say, think that ye earnestly desired to see that friend, and
sought him, if ye did all the day take up your time with other petty business that might be
done at any time? How can ye imagine ye seek not the world but heaven, when, if ye would look
back upon the current and stream, both of your affections and endeavours, ye would find they
have run this way toward your present ease and satisfaction? Ye do not give one entire hour
to the thought of Jesus Christ and his kingdom, it may be, in a whole week.

Are ye then seekers of the kingdom? If ye did but examine one day how it is spent, ye might
pass a judgment upon your whole life. Do ye seek that first which is fewest times in your thoughts,
and least in your affections, and hath least of your time bestowed on it? Alas, do not flatter
yourselves. That ye seek first which is often in your mind, which uses to stir up your joy
or grief, or desire most. It is this present world only, and this present world is your portion.
Ye shall lose the kingdom of heaven by seeking to make the world sure. As for the children
of God, ye who will be his disciples, (to such he speaks here,) it becomes not you to be like
the heathens. Ye ought, most of all, to adorn your holy profession, your high calling to a
kingdom above. If then ye seek these things below, as if ye sought them not, ye ought to make
religion your main business, else ye are not indeed religious. If Christianity take not up
a man, he hath not the thing, but the name. “Seek first,” that is, chiefly, principally, and
above all, “the kingdom of God and his righteousness.” Nay, this is more strange, it is a first
that hath no second. Seek this first, so as if ye sought nothing else, and all things necessary
here shall be superadded to the seeking and finding of this kingdom.

This is that which I would have engraven on all our hearts, that there is a necessity of making
Christianity our calling and trade, our business and employment, else we must renounce it.
It will take our whole man, our whole time, not spare hours, and by thoughts. Ye have a great
task to accomplish, a great journey to make. If ye give not all diligence to add to your faith,
virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, and charity, ye are
certainly blind, and see not afar off, and have not been purged from your old sins, 2 Pet.
i. 5-11. This imports that those who make not religion their great comprehensive study, do
neither know eternity, nor see into it. Oh, how may this word strike into the hearts of many
Christians, and pierce as a sword! Is our lazy, indifferent, and cold service at some appointed
hours, “all diligence”? Or, is it diligence at all? Is there not more diligence and fervour
in other things than this, to add grace to grace? Who is covetous of such a game? Are not many
more desirous of adding lands and houses to their lands and houses, and money to their stock,
than to add to their faith virtue? &c. Who among you is enlarging his desires, as the grave,
after conformity to Jesus Christ, and the righteousness of his kingdom, that this treasure
of grace may abound? Alas, we are poor mean Christians, because we are negligent! For “the
hand of the diligent maketh rich,” Prov. x. 4. But we become poor in grace, because we deal
with a slack hand. Is there any great thing that is attainable without much pains and sweating?
Difficilia quæ pulchra.(500)

Think ye to come to a kingdom by sleeping through some custom of godliness? “Seest thou a man
diligent in his business? that man shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean
men,” Prov. xxii. 29. This advances him to be a courtier. And is not this business of Christianity
more considerable to be diligent about when it advances a man into the court of heaven, into
his presence in whose favour is life, and whose loving kindness is better than life? And not
only so, but if ye be diligent here ye shall obtain a kingdom. “Seek first the kingdom of God.”
“The hand of the diligent shall bear rule but the slothful shall be under tribute,” Prov. xii.
24. If ye make this your business, and spend your spirits in it, ye shall be kings and priests
with God in the kingdom above, that may suffer many partakers without division or emulation.
It is he that overcomes, that shall have the new name, the white raiment, the crown of life,
and all the glorious things which are promised to them that overcome in the second and third
chapters of the Revelation. O what glad tidings are these! This is the gospel of peace. This
is the joyful sound that proclaims unto us so great, so excellent things as a kingdom, the
kingdom of God, an everlasting kingdom like God, a kingdom glorious as he is, a kingdom suitable
to his royal Majesty, and the magnificence of his palace above. Are we called into this by
the gospel, and would ye know what is the sum thereof? It is this. Ho! every one that will
have great things, ho! every one that will be a king to God, and to bear rule over kings in
the great day, come, here it is, overcome yourselves here in the Lamb that hath overcome, follow
Jesus the captain of your salvation, who for the joy and glory which was set before him, despised
all the glory of this world, and the pains and shame of the cross, Heb. xii. 1, 2. “Why do
ye spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labour for that which satisfieth
not?” Isa. lv. 1, 2, 3. All ye toil about, what is it? Children’s fancies. Such houses and
kingdoms as they build in the sand. Why spend ye your time and labour upon earthly things that
are at an end? Here is a kingdom worthy of all men’s thoughts, and affections, and time. The
diligent shall have it. Gird up the loins of your mind, and seek it as the one thing needful.
Many of you desire this kingdom, but alas! these are sluggard’s wishes, ye have fainting desires
after it. Your desires consume and waste you. But ye put not forth your hand, and so ye have
nothing. 4. Do ye see any growing Christian, but he that is much in the exercise of godliness,
and very honest in it? See ye any fat souls, but diligent souls? Our barrenness and leanness
hath negligence written upon it. Do ye not wonder that we are not fat and flourishing, as palms
and cedars in the courts of our God? Certainly it is no wonder. Is it not a wonder that our
sleeping away secure, keeps so much as the leaves of a profession upon us? Therefore Christians,
let this be your name, Seekers, but seekers of what? Not of any new religion, but of the good
old kingdom of God, proponed to us in the gospel. And remember that the seeker must seek diligently,
if he think that which he seeks worthy of finding. “He that comes to God must believe that
he is, and that he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him,” Heb. xi. 6. Your seeking
will proclaim your estimation of what ye seek. It will be written on it, what your desires
are. Many men’s unfrequent and lazy prayers have this written upon them in legible characters,
I care not whether God grant or not. Diligence speaks affection, and affection principles(501)
diligence. And if ye be seekers, ye must be so still, till ye find, and have no more want.
When ye have done all, ye must stand, Eph. vi. 10, 16. When ye have found all, ye must seek.
Ye do but find in part, because the kingdom of God is but coming in the glory and perfection
of it. Nay, I believe the more ye find, the more ye will seek, because tasting what this kingdom
is, can best engage the affection and resolution after it. Seeking is an exercise suitable
to a Christian in this state of pilgrimage. Enjoyment is for his own country, heaven. And shall
not the bitterness and pains of seeking, sweeten the enjoyment of this kingdom when it is found?
This will endear it and make it precious. Yet it needs no supereminent and accessory sweetness,
it is so satisfactory in itself. Christians, remember your name. When you have attained all,
still seek more. For there is more to be found here than ye have yet found. It is sitting down
on our attainments that makes us barren and lean Christians. Desires and diligence are the
vital sap of a Christian. Enlarge once your desires as the grave, that never says I have enough.
And ye have good warrant so to do, because that which ye are allowed to desire is without bounds
and measure. It is inexhaustible, and when once desires have emptied the soul, and made it
capable of such a great kingdom, then let your study be henceforth to fill up that void with
this kingdom. Let your diligence come up to desires, and at length ye shall be what ye would
be, ye shall find what ye sought.

Sermon XVIII.

    Matt. vi. 33.—“But seek ye first the kingdom of God,” &c.

O “seekest thou great things for thyself,” says God to Baruch, (Jer. xlv. 5) “seek them not.”
How then doth he command us in the text to seek a kingdom? Is not this a great thing? Certainly
it is greater than those great things he would not have Baruch to seek after, and yet he charges
us to seek after it. In every kind of creatures there is some difference, some greater, some
lesser, some higher, some lower; so there are some men far above others in knowledge, understanding,
strength, and such like. Yet such is the order God hath made, that the lowest angel is above
the highest man, so that in comparison of these, the greatest man is but a mean worm, a despisable
nothing. Among things created, some are greater, some lesser. 3, 4. But when all these are
compared with God, then the difference of greater and lesser disappears. In the night there
are different lights, the moon and stars, “and one star,” says Paul, “differeth from another
in glory.” Some are of the first, some of the second, and most of them the third magnitude.
Nay, but let the sun arise—and all these are alike, they are all darkness when compared with
the sun’s brightness. What then are angels and men to God, who is a light inaccessible and
full of glory, whom no eye hath seen or can see? “All nations before him are as nothing, yea,
they are counted to him less than nothing, and vanity,” Isa. xl. 12-19; 1 Tim. vi. 15, 16.
The sun himself shines not before him, and the moon gives not her light. Now is it not so proportionably
here? If we stay within the sphere of temporal and worldly things, some are great, some small,
some things of greater, some things of less consequence, greater or smaller in their appearance
to us, and in men’s fancies. But if we go further and look into eternity, then certainly all
these will appear small and inconsiderable. This earth seems very spacious, and huge in quantity
unto us who dwell upon it. We discern mountains and valleys, sea and land, and do make many
divisions of it. But if one man were above where the sun is, and looked down upon the earth,
he would consider it but as one point almost invisible, that had no proportion to the vast
dimensions of heaven. Even so it is here, while men abide within their own orb, their natural
understanding, and do compare time only with time, and temporal things with temporal, riches
with poverty, honour with disgrace, pleasure with pain, learning with ignorance, strength with
weakness, pleasant lands and goodly houses with wildernesses and wild deserts where none do
well. It is no wonder, I think, that those who compare themselves with some that commend themselves,
are not wise, 2 Cor. x. 12, 13. There is but one perfect pattern they should look to, if they
would not be deceived. While ye stay your thoughts within these bounds, ye apprehend in yourselves
great odds between one thing and another. But if once the Spirit of God enlightened your eyes,
and made you to see far off, if ye were elevated above your own station, to the watch-tower
of the holy scriptures, to behold off(502) these, by the prospect of saving faith, things that
are afar off, such as heaven and hell, eternity, salvation and condemnation, O how would all
these differences in a present world evanish out of sight, in the presence of these vast and
infinite things! Food and raiment are great things to the most part of men, therefore do they
toil so much about them, and take so much thought for them, how to feed, and how to be clothed,
how to have a full and delicate table, and fine clothes! Again, many others apprehend some
greatness and eminency in honour and respect among men; others in pleasure and satisfaction
to their senses, even as a beast would judge. Others apprehend some worth and excellence in
great possessions, in silver and gold beside them, and have a kind of complacency in these.
But if once this kingdom of God entered into your heart, if ye saw the worth of it, the vast
dimensions of it, the pleasure, honour, and profit of it, then certainly all other things would
appear to be mean and low, not worth a thought beforehand. Advantage and disadvantage would
be all one to you. Honour and dishonour, evil report and good report, pleasure and pain, would
have no distance from one another; this gain, this honour, this pleasure of the kingdom of
God, would so overmaster them, so outshine them.

Nay, I may say, if ye but knew your immortal souls, or your own worth beyond the rest of the
creatures, such as silver, gold, lands, houses, &c., I am confident ye would fall in your esteem
of them. They would appear but low, base things in regard of the soul. Suppose even this world
came in competition, (the gain of it now seems great gain,) but I pray you, if ye laid all
that world in the balance with your soul, what would weigh most? Christ holds it forth to a
rational man, to judge of it; “What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own soul, or be cast away?” Would ye account yourselves gainers, when ye have
lost yourselves? Matt. xvi. 26; Luke ix. 25. Is not a man better than meat? Are not your souls
more precious than the finest gold? When you lose your souls, whose shall these be? “What shall
a man give in exchange for his soul?” And if there be no one more to possess or use, what profit
is it? This then that we have in hand is one thing of greatest moment and concernment in the
world. Let me then beseech you to weigh these things in the balance of the sanctuary,—your
souls, and this world, the kingdom of God, and many temporal things, such as food and raiment.
Ye never enter into the comparison of these things in your mind. If ye did, would ye not see
to which side the balance would turn? Therefore we would have you look upon these words of
our Saviour, which are the just balance of the sanctuary. Behold how the question is stated,
how the comparison goeth. It is not whether I shall want food and raiment, and other necessary
things here, or the kingdom of God hereafter? It is not thus cast—in the one balance, the present
life and its accommodations, in the other, the life to come and God’s kingdom. Indeed if it
were so, without all controversy this kingdom would carry it. I say, if there were an inconsistency
supposed between a life here, and a life hereafter, suppose no man can be godly, except he
be miserable, poor, naked, afflicted, extremely indigent, yet I say the balance thus casten,
would be clear to all men that judged aright. Would not eternity weigh down time? Would not
an immortal soul weigh down a mortal body? What proportion would the raiment of wool, or gold,
or silk have to the white and clean linen, the robes of righteousness, the robes of saints,
and to the crown of glory that fadeth not away? What proportion would our perishing pleasures
have to the rivers of pleasures, pure, unmixed, undefiled pleasures at God’s right hand for
evermore? Would ye thus rate this present span, inch, and shadow of time, if ye considered
the endless endurance of eternity? I am sure reason itself might be appealed unto, though faith
were not to judge.

Though it would hold well enough so, yet our Lord Jesus Christ states the controversy otherwise,
and holds out another balance, that it may be the more convincing and clear, if it were possible
even, to overcome natural consciences with the light of it. And it is this, in the one hand
you may see food and raiment, things that belong to this life; and, on the other hand, you
may behold the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, grace, and glory; and, besides that,
even all these other things that ye did see in the other hand, food, raiment, &c., “all these
things shall be added.”

Wisdom, in the Proverbs, uses such a device to catch poor, foolish, and simple men: “Happy,”
says Solomon, “is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. For
the merchandise thereof is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than
fine gold. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to
be compared unto her.” Here is the weight of wisdom in itself. See how ponderous it is of itself;
so heavy that it may weigh down all that come within the compass of desire, and certainly its
compass is infinite. 13-19.

Now, O men, if ye will not be allured with the beauty and excellency of the princess, wisdom
herself, then, I pray you, look what follows her. That which now ye are pursuing after with
much labour and pains, and all in vain too, is here in her train. Look how the comparison is
stated. Christ Jesus would catch us with a holy guile, and, if it had success, O! it would
be a blessed guile to us. Ye have large and airy apprehensions of temporal things, which ye
call needful, and ye cannot behold eternal things. Ye know not the worth of this kingdom. Ye
conceive that godliness is prejudicial unto you in this life, that the kingdom of grace will
make you miserable here; and that ye cannot endure. Ah, be not mistaken, come and look again.
If godliness itself will not allure you, if the kingdom itself will not weigh with you, then,
I pray you, consider what an appendix, what a consectary these have. Consider that the sum
is added to the principal, which ye so much seek after. But ye refuse the principal, the kingdom.
Now, is not this “a faithful saying?” If ye believe it so to be, is it not “worthy of all acceptation?”

Ye may have things necessary here, food and raiment. And if ye seek more, if ye will be rich,
and will have superfluities, then ye shall fall into many temptations, snares, and hurtful
lusts, which shall drown you in perdition, 1 Tim. vi. 8-11. Nature and reason might check such
exorbitances, for nature is content with few things. Therefore believe that “godliness with
contentment is great gain.” Ye are now only seeking temporal gain, but that is neither great
gain, nor gain at all, when ye lose your soul. For that is an irrecoverable and incomparable
loss. Ye may have these outward things, God’s blessing, and peace with them, and heaven too
if ye choose this kingdom before all things, and above all things. But if ye give these other
things the pre-eminence, it is uncertain if ye will get what ye seek, and ye shall certainly
be eternal losers beside. If there were no more but this kingdom alone, it might weigh all
down. If heaven and earth were laid in a balance, would not heaven, if it were ponderous according
to its magnitude, weigh down the earth exceedingly out of sight? Would it not evanish as a
point? Even so, though this kingdom of grace and glory were alone, in opposition to all these
things that ye take thought for, it would weigh them down eternally. Look what the weight of
glory was to Paul, when he says, 2 Cor. iv. The one scale of the balance goes up, as it were,
eternally out of sight, out of thought, the one goes up for lightness and vanity, and the other
goeth down, for weight and solidity, out of sight, and out of the thought and imagination.
If ye looked upon these things which are invisible and eternal, as Paul did, it would be so
with you also.

But when withal the earth and its fulness is in the scale with God’s kingdom and righteousness,
will not these, with that accession, weigh down the earth alone? Is it food and raiment that
ye seek? Then I say, food and raiment is on this kingdom’s side also. And ye shall be more
sure of these things, because ye have God’s promise for them. The wicked have not his word
and promise for prosperity, even not so much as to answer their necessities, but only they
may sometimes prosper in the world, in his providence. But God’s people shall have him engaged
in their need for their temporal being here in this world. 9, 10. Godliness hath the promise
of this life. Now, then, ye are more assured of temporal things by these means than any monarch
can be. The world’s stability depends only upon a command. But your food and raiment here is
grounded upon a promise, and though heaven and earth should fail and pass away, yet not one
jot of truth shall fail. God indeed may change his command if he pleases, but not his promises.
Now, then, let all the world judge, come and see this balance, how on the one hand are food,
raiment, and all things needful for this present life, on the other hand, these same thing
necessary for our bodies, and well being here, and that more solidly and sweetly flowing from
God’s love, grounded on a promise,—I think this weighs down already, if we should say no more.
But then behold what more is on his right hand. There is a kingdom of God beside, an eternal
kingdom, and this weighs down eternally. All this world is but an accession and addition to
it. The promises of this life are not your portion and inheritance, they are but superadded
to your portion, so then we have as much beside, an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled,
as the world have for their inheritance, yea, and more sure and more sweet beside. We might
with reverence change that verse which Paul has on this consideration, “If we had hope only
in this life, we were of all men most miserable,” 1 Cor. xv. 19. He speaks thus because of
afflictions and persecutions. But on this consideration we might say, If we have hope in Christ
only in this life, we were not of all men most miserable, but most blessed, because we have
all these things added to us, without toil and vexation, without care and anxiety, by divine
promise and providence, with God’s blessing and favour, what the world takes thought for, rendeth
their hearts for, toils their bodies for, and yet are not sure of success, or if they get them,
they get a curse with them.

Now when the balance is thus presented, what is your choice? What will ye seek after? Will
ye seek this present world, and lose the kingdom of heaven? Or will ye choose to “seek first
the kingdom of God and his righteousness,” and then ye shall have in this world what is good
for you? The choice is soon made in men’s judgments. Ye dare not any of you deny, but it ought
thus to be. But who seriously ponders these things till their minds affect their hearts? Who
will sit down to meditate upon them, and pass a resolute and well grounded choice upon deliberation?
Remember what Christ says, “No man can serve two masters.” Ye may indeed have both these things,
and the kingdom. But ye cannot seek them both, they are not so consistent. “But seek first
the kingdom of God,” and then all these things shall be given you.

Now there is no more need of any second seeking. For “all these things shall be added” as an
accessory to the first. O see then, ye whose projects and thoughts are towards present things,—ye
spend the prime and flower of your affections, and time upon them,—ye cannot also seek the
kingdom of heaven. Unless ye seek them as if ye sought them not, ye cannot seek this blessed
kingdom. If ye seek not this kingdom as the one thing necessary, and your seeking proclaim
that ye account it so, ye do not seek it aright. If ye be careful and troubled about many things,
ye proclaim that ye do not think there is but one thing needful, ye do not, like Mary, choose
the good part which shall not be taken from you, Luke x. 41, 42. If ye would abandon the distracting
care of the world, and let all your anxiety and care vent itself here upon the kingdom of God,
all these things would be added besides the kingdom itself. “Seek the kingdom of God and his
righteousness.” I conceive this is added to make us understand the better what it is, and what
is the way to it. The kingdom of God is the kingdom of grace, in which he rules in us by his
Spirit. But this kingdom of God also includes the kingdom of glory, wherein these who overcome
this world by faith in the Son of God, reign as kings set upon thrones with God the Father
of all. Now because the most part, when they heard of the kingdom of God, dreamed of nothing
but a state of happiness in heaven, and passed over the way to it, which is holiness, and they
thought not upon the kingdom of grace, which is preparatory unto, and disposes us for the kingdom
of glory, therefore Christ exhorts us also to seek his righteousness, opposite to the righteousness
of the scribes and Pharisees, who satisfied themselves with a mere walk before men. This was
man’s righteousness but not God’s. This righteousness may be also opposed to the rags of our
own righteousness, that we seek to cover ourselves with, Isa. lxiv. 6. The apostle says of
the Jews, Rom. x. 3, 4, “For they being ignorant of God’s righteousness, and going about to
establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God.
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth.”

Now here is the business, and I would have you to conceive it right. The gospel calls you to
a kingdom. This is certainly more than all earthly kingdoms. But how shall ye come to it? Not
at the nearest hand, not per saltum.(503) No, believe it, ye must come and enter this way,
before ye compass the end, and the way to this kingdom is by another kingdom, namely righteousness.
It is the kingdom of grace within us, and the fruit of it is this. Deny thyself, and follow
me, Matt. xvi. 24-26. Overcome yourselves, and your corrupt lusts, and ye shall be more than
conquerors. Kingdoms are gotten by conquest. But here is the greatest conquest and triumph
in the world, for a man to overcome himself. He that rules himself and his own spirit, is greater
than he that taketh a city, Prov. xvi. 32. Other conquerors but overcome men like themselves,
and yet are overcome by themselves, and their own passions, and so are but slaves indeed. But
if ye deny yourselves, and resign yourselves to Jesus Christ, ye shall be more than conquerors,
Rom. viii. 37. This then is the kingdom ye must seek first, and it is the first step to the
throne of glory. If ye would have a throne after this life, you must have a throne of grace
in your hearts. “If the Son shall make you free, then shall ye be free indeed.” They truly
are kings who are most subject to God above themselves, and free from the bonds of creatures.
This is the glorious liberty of the children of God, to have liberty from him to make sin a
captive. It is a righteous kingdom, a kingdom of righteousness. 11, &c. All men love the salvation
it brings. But do ye love the lessons it teaches you? Ye would all be glad to have that blessed
hope, and obtain the salvation which the saints look for, when Christ shall appear again in
glory. But how few learn and practise what the gospel teacheth, to mortify and deny your corrupt
lusts, and live daily in the practice of sobriety, equity, and piety! O if this were engraven
upon your hearts, that ye might study to do that in this present world, which this precious
grace and gospel teaches us to do in it! Know ye not, brethren, that all your pains in seeking
heaven, are not about heaven itself immediately, but the way to it, which is holiness? Without
this, no man shall see the Lord, ye need not seek the kingdom of glory, hope for it, and look
for it. But seek grace and righteousness in this world, and if ye obtain them, ye have not
much to do, but to look for the blessed hope and Christ’s glorious appearance to judgment.
For if ye have sought and got grace here, Christ will come with grace and glory at the day
of his revelation. Will ye consider that ye are redeemed by Christ? But from what is it? From
hell only, and eternal death only? No, no, for we are redeemed from all iniquity, as well as
the curse of the law and the wrath to come, Matt. i. 21, Tit. ii. 14. This deliverance from
sin is the greater and best half of our redemption. Consider also to what ye are redeemed.
Is it to happiness and glory only? No certainly, but unto grace also. For Christ “gave himself
for us, that he might purify us unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.” These
things should ministers teach and exhort, and above all things press them upon men’s consciences.
We are redeemed from all our enemies to serve God without fear, in holiness and righteousness
all the days of our life, Luke i. 74, 75. Yea, glory is not glory, except it be complete grace,
so we must call the kingdom of glory. If ye believed that it was nigh you, ye would look then
for the perfection of grace. And will ye not love the beginning of it here?

But this is not all. There is yet more here to comfort us. Seek the righteousness of God. There
is a righteousness of God by faith, manifested in the gospel for lost sinners, who have nothing
to cover them. Now I say ye must so seek inherent grace, as ye may not make it your covering,
and the only foundation of your confidence. Sinners, the thing which ye first seek and find,
is to be clothed with God’s righteousness, that he may see no iniquity within you, and then
let it be your daily study henceforth to be adorned and made all glorious within, with grace
and holiness. Ye must first renounce all your own righteousness, and then be clothed with the
robes of God’s righteousness, ye must still renounce it, that grace may appear as the gift
of God, and not yours; as his beauty, not your ornament. If ye be imperfect in your own righteousness,
comfort yourselves in the righteousness of God made yours by faith, that worketh by love and
purifies your hearts, for, says the apostle, Gal. ii. 16, 17, Though we are not justified by
the works of the law, but by the faith of Christ, yet we must keep ourselves from every wicked
thing, and perfect holiness in the fear of God, for if while we seek to be justified by Christ,
and we ourselves be found sinners, impenitent and impure, is therefore Christ the minister
of sin? God forbid.

Sermon XIX.

    Matt. vi. 33.—“Seek first the kingdom of God,” &c.

It may seem strange, that when so great things are allowed, and so small things are denied,
that we do not seek them. The kingdom of God and his righteousness are great things indeed,
great not only in themselves, but greater in comparison of us. The things of this world, even
great events, are but poor, petty, and inconsiderable matters, when compared with these. Yet
he graciously allows a larger measure of these great things relating to his kingdom and righteousness,
than of those lesser things he hath promised to give his people, and he commands us to seek
after these greatest things. “Seek first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all
these things shall be added unto you.”

This indeed is most suitable to his Majesty, and to us also. It is most becoming his loyal
Majesty when he is to declare his magnificence, and to vent his love, to give such high and
eminent expressions of it. A kingdom is a fit expression of a king’s love and good will. Kings
cannot give empires, unless they unking themselves. But Christ is the “King of kings,” and
hath prepared a kingdom for them that love him. It is a glorious declaration of God’s excellent
name, that he is good to all, kind even to the evil and unthankful. His tender mercies are
over all his works. The whole earth is full of his riches, and the wretched posterity of Adam
have the largest share of his goodness, even since the first defection from him. Nay, but there
are other things prepared and laid up for them that seek him, O how great is that goodness!
How excellent is that loving kindness! Psal. xxxi. 19, 20, Psal. xxxvi. 5, 10. These things
have not yet entered into the heart of men to consider. If ye could speak the mind of it, then
the tongue could express it. If ye could apprehend the wonders of it, then the heart could
conceive it, but this the scripture denies, Isa. lxiv. 4. But God hath revealed them unto us
by his Spirit, who searcheth all things, even the deep things of God,” &c., 1 Cor. ii. 7-14.
Is not a kingdom a gift suitable to such a Giver? And is not this kingdom of God every way
like himself? These things are prepared by Christ, and there is no more to do, but to give
to him that asks, and he that seeks shall find. This righteousness, divine and human, is it
not wholly of God’s finding out? Is it so glorious, so excellent, as to hide the greatest spots
of the creation from his spotless eyes? For even hell itself is naked before him, and destruction
hath no covering, even the heavens are not pure in his sight, he chargeth his angels with folly,
Job xxvi. 6, chap. iv. 17, 18, 19, chap. xv. 14-17. When all the creatures could not procure
the salvation of sinful men, when the depth said, it is not in me, and the sea said, it is
not with me, and the heavens and heights said so too,—even angels could not redeem us,—the
redemption of the soul was so precious, it would have ceased for ever, if divine wisdom had
not found it out, and almighty power brought it to pass. 6, 7, 8, Heb. x. 5-11. All this was
with God, and he knew the way thereof. Christ framed this royal robe of his righteousness,
by suffering and death, which may cover all our nakedness. He came and sought the human nature
with all its infirmities. He became in all things like unto us, sin only excepted. On him God
laid our iniquities.  For he himself “bare our sins in his own body,” when he was slain upon
the cross or tree, “that we, being dead unto sin, might live unto righteousness,” 1 Pet. ii.
24, 2 Cor. v. 21.  Behold what a wonder! Iniquities, and our iniquities, laid upon the immaculate
Lamb, Jesus Christ. Our Redeemer hid his divinity, his holiness, and his innocence, as with
a vail and covering from the eyes of God’s awful justice. He smites the Shepherd, his beloved
Son, as he did the rebel creature. It pleased the Father to bruise him and put him to grief,
when his soul was made an offering for sin, Isa. liii. 4-11, Zech. xiii. 7. Justice did not
look through the covering to his innocence, but reckoned and numbered him among transgressors,
when he bore the punishment of our sins, and made an atonement for them, Isa. liii. 11, 12,
Gal. iii. 13, 14.

Now hence it is that the righteousness of Jesus Christ, which he learned in the days of his
flesh, and purchased by his death, is prepared for us, to put on. “Who soever will, let him
come and take it.”  Empty yourselves, stripped naked of all kind of coverings but sin and unworthiness,
that which God’s holy eye cannot behold, and seek Christ’s righteousness to adorn and cover
you. Behold it shall hide all your sins and abominations, of whatsoever nature and degree,
from the pure and unspotted eyes of God’s justice, which are as a flaming fire, to consume
what it cannot look upon without abhorrence. Put on this righteousness of God, and justice
shall not draw by the covering, to look under it. It shall look upon the sinner as a righteous
man on the slave of Satan as a child of God, on the heir of hell as the heir of heaven, if
he sincerely repent of, and forsake his sins, believe in Christ and obey his gospel. “Behold
all things are new, and all things are of God, who hath reconciled the world unto himself by
Jesus Christ,” &c., 2 Cor. v. 17-19, Col. i. 19-24. Christ was no worse dealt with for our
sins, than we shall be well dealt with for his righteousness. This is the gift of God. And
is it not worthy to be sought? Is it not a gift worthy of him to give?  Is it not also suitable
for us to ask? 10-15. So say I to you, if ye knew the gift of God, what this kingdom is, what
this righteousness is, and who is appointed by God to be the treasure house of all fulness,
to be communicated to us, ye would certainly ask of him the water of life. Ye would surely
seek this kingdom of God and his righteousness. He doth not value other things. God only hath
these things offered in the gospel, in choice of many, therefore are they laid up for some
few, whom he makes his peculiar treasure and jewels, Mal. iii. 17, Exod. xix. 5, 6. If ye knew
a monarch that was a possessor of all this habitable world, and was about to express his singular
affection towards some persons, if his kingdom or the half or whole of it was not sufficient,
to be a token of it, but he had found out some other thing, and laid it up for them, and distributed
the kingdom, the lands and cities among others, certainly ye would think that behoved to be
some strange thing of great price.  If the Lord was pleased to give you abundance of all things
here, make you all great, rich, and honourable persons, then many would seek no other expression
of his love. They would think he did well enough to them. But alas! what is it all? He esteems
it so little that he often casts it to swine, the profane and wicked world. He fills their
belly with his hid treasure, Psal. xvii. 14. He makes his sun to shine, and his rain to fall
on the evil and the good, Matt. v. 45. It is a demonstration that it is but a base thing, when
it is so common, I mean, in comparison of the portion of his saints. For though these worldly
things are good in themselves, yet they are not precious, they are not pearls. Would he cast
pearls before dogs and swine?  The honourable man’s brutishness and ignorance of God may demonstrate
to you he cares not for it. “The Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever
he will,” and sometimes “setteth up over it the basest of men,” Dan iv. 13-18. If God loved
riches well, do ye think he would give them so liberally, and heap them up upon some base covetous
wretches? Surely no. But here is the precious thing that is laid up and treasured. The world
and its gain seems great, and big in your eyes, ye cannot imagine more, nor wish for more.
But alas! how low and base spirits have ye!  It is but as the dunghill that the swine feed
on, or the husks which the prodigal desired to feed his belly with, when he began to be in
want, Luke xv. 13-17. So are all men’s worldly pleasures, preferments, and profits. But here
are some particular things, that only deserve to be called good, namely, “the kingdom of God
and his righteousness.” And when God had searched the whole world, (to speak with reverence
of his glorious Majesty, who needs not inquire into secret things,) when he had looked through
all the works of his hand, he sets these apart from all the rest, to be given to the men whom
the King shall honour. This kingdom is the substance and accomplishment of heaven’s eternal
counsel and purpose of grace, which was given in Christ before the world, and it is the end
of the Son’s redemption of a sinful world, and his intercession for them at God’s right hand.
“Father,” says he, (John xvii. 24), “I will that those whom thou hast given me, be with me
where I am, that they may behold the glory which thou hast given me,” and for other things
he makes them as the stones of the field.

Now I say, as this kingdom of God and his righteousness are suitable expressions of his love,
according to his magnificence, so they are also suited to our condition and necessities. No
question but he would permit us to seek great things in this world, if these things were really
great and good, and if they did become such great immortal spirits as we have. Your souls are
above all these things. But this kingdom, and this only, is above the soul. Now then, if ye
go out to seek these earthly things, ye must go down from the throne of eminency that God hath
set your souls upon by creation, and abuse your spirits by stooping to the very dust of your
feet, to embrace these things, and, which is worse, ye put yourselves out of that high throne
of dignity that ye are exalted to by Christ’s redemption, which we may call a second creation.
Jesus declared by the infinite ransom he gave, when he offered himself a sacrifice without
spot to God, (Heb. ix. 14) and laid down his life for us, what the worth of your souls was.
6-10. Call and assemble all the creatures in heaven and earth, summon gold, silver, precious
stones, houses, cities, kingdoms, places of trust and dignity, great learning and parts, and
every other thing ye can imagine, let them all convene in a parliament, and consult how men
shall be ransomed. All of them combined together, though they make one purse, cannot do it.
They cannot pay the least farthing. The Lord Jesus Christ then stepped in here, “Lo, I come,”—I
give the body thou gave me, my life for theirs, “I delight to do thy will, thy law is in my heart.”

Are your souls then exalted to such great dignity? Is such a price set upon them, and will
ye spend them, for that which could not pay the price for them, “for that which profiteth not?”
Ye must go out of yourselves to seek happiness. Then I pray you, go not downward. It is not
there, but misery is there. And by going down to the creatures, ye have found it, and cannot
lose it to this day. But the kingdom of God is the only thing above. Go up to it. “Seek these
things that are above,” Col. iii. 1-4. “If then ye be risen with Christ,” through the faith
of God’s operation, “set your affection on things above, where Christ sitteth at God’s right
hand, and not on things on the earth.” These things are but great in your apprehension. If
they are at all great indeed, it is only in evil. If then ye seek great things for yourselves,
ye may find evil things, ye shall certainly find such evil things as shall drown you in everlasting
destruction. Great things in this world are not always good. To seek them, makes them certainly
evil and hurtful. It is not so hurtful to have them, though very dangerous, but it is hurtful,
yea, present ruin to seek them. But here is a kingdom that is great, and great in goodness,
every way answerable to our necessities. This is the kingdom we should seek above all things.

We would therefore beseech you to be wanters in yourselves, and seekers in Christ, and seekers
ye cannot be till ye be wanters, and finders ye cannot be except ye seek in Jesus all satisfaction
and remedy of your necessity. This is even the very nature of a Christian, his chief exercise
and employment. What then is a Christian’s principal study, his great business, his important
calling, and what is his success in it? He is a seeker by his employment, or calling here,
and he shall certainly find what he asks. But what puts him to seeking? The discovery of his
own emptiness, and God’s fulness. Therefore study these things most, if ye would be Christians
in truth and in deed. It is these two that ye must still pass between, if ye keep them not
both in your view at once, ye cannot well perceive any of them, either comfortably, humbly,
or profitably.

This is even the sum of Christianity. Look what ye want in yourselves, and make up that in
God. Discover your own emptiness and fill it up with God’s fulness. 25. Be not niggards here.
Be liberally minded, both in seeking and receiving, so shall ye please him best who counts
it his glory to give. 7, 8. Seek answerable to your own necessity, and God’s all sufficiency,
and know no other rule or measure.

Now, Christians, this is your calling and employment here, to be seekers of God’s kingdom and
righteousness. But shall we come speed? Yes certainly. It is so far put out of question here,
that it needs not be expressed. “Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall
be” superadded to you. He thinks it needless to say, and ye shall find the kingdom of God,
and his righteousness, for it is supposed as a thing unquestionable, and he adds these words,
“and all these things shall be added to you,” to answer the faithlessness of these who could
not credit him in temporal things, though they had concredited(504) to him their immortal souls.
Ye do not doubt, then, but ye shall have the kingdom of heaven. Ye do indeed seek it. Many
by seeking kingdoms lose here—by seeking to make them more sure, they lose the hold they have.
Many by aspiring to greater things, lose these things they have, and themselves too. But here
is the man that is only sure of success,—the man that may reckon upon his advantage before
he take pains, if indeed he resolves to take pains for it. This one thing is made sure, eternal
life, if ye lay hold on it here by faith, and quit your hold of present things that end in
death, Rom. vi. 21. We may well submit to the uncertainty of all other things, as David, who
held himself well satisfied with the everlasting covenant God had made with him, which was
well ordered in all things and sure, 2 Sam. xxiii. 5. Though the kingdom and house go, it matters
not, if he keep this fast. If he take not away his loving kindness, this is all my comfort,
my joy, and my desire. Comfort yourselves with this, amidst the manifold calamities and revolutions
of times. Ye see no man can promise himself immunity, or freedom from common judgments. Here
ye have no continuing city. Why then do ye not seek one to come, and comfort yourselves in
the hope of it? Your rights and heritable securities will not secure your lands and riches
for any considerable time. Therefore seek an eternal and sure inheritance, sure mercies. Seek
that which ye cannot miss, and having found, cannot lose. Nothing here can you expect either
to find, or keep, until ye have found it.

But besides all this, there is an accession to the inheritance. All needful things shall be
added, ye shall want “no good thing,” Psal. lxxxiv. 11. Will not all this double gain and advantage
recompense, yea, overcome all the labours of seeking? Shall it not drive away the remembrance
of them? Here then is the most compendious and comprehensive way to have your desires in this
life granted, to get your necessities supplied. “Seek first the kingdom of God” and ye shall
have them. But if ye seek these things and not heaven, ye shall want this kingdom. I think
then it is all the folly and madness in the world, not to take this way, for it is the way
to be blessed here and hereafter. And if we choose any other way, it brings no satisfaction
here, and it brings eternal misery hereafter. If ye would be well in this world, seek heaven.
Do not think that ye should have heaven, or seek God’s kingdom from this sordid principle,
that ye shall have all worldly things given you, which God pleaseth to bestow. For now man
can seek the kingdom of heaven aright, but he that seeks it for itself. Yet if they were no
more to proclaim the madness of men, this would sufficiently suffice, all they can desire or
expect is promised with the kingdom, and yet they will not seek it.

Sermon XX.

    1 Pet. iv. 7.—“But the end of all things is at hand, be ye
    therefore sober and watch unto prayer.”

If ye would ask what ye should do till Christ come again, or what should be your exercise and
employment in this old age of the world, here ye have it in a word, “be sober, and watch unto
prayer.” When Christ was to go away to his Father, and leave his disciples in this world, as
he left them not orphans, or comfortless, without the Comforter, so neither left he them without
counsel and direction. The word he left to them was, “Take heed, watch and pray,” Mark xiii.
33. In this chapter, Peter is mindful of his Lord’s directions, as Paul also was, 1 Thess.
v. 6. The substance of this chapter is to exhort Christians to a holy conversation, suitable
to their high calling. He presses mortification in general, from that which should be of greatest
force with a believer’s heart,—the strongest and most convincing reason in the world,—union
with Christ crucified, even as Paul does, Rom. vi. And then, in the 3d and 4th verses, he argues
from their former conversation, ye have sinned enough already, all the rest of your time is
over little(505) to consecrate to God, according then as ye have advanced Satan’s kingdom while
under it, so advance Christ’s kingdom when it comes to you, and take that noble revenge upon
yourselves and sins, so as to bring them both captive to the obedience of Christ. And although
the world may think it strange ye walk not with them, yet so much the rather ought ye to aspire
after a disconformity to the world. Be then ambitious of being singular in the world. Ye would
lay down such a conclusion as this, I am a stranger, and will walk as a stranger. And ye need
not think yourselves miserable to be out of so much company, and to be alone. No, if ye knew
what was to come upon them, ye would get you out from among them, lest ye be partakers of their
plagues. The day of the Lord is coming, and the world must give an account to the Judge of
all flesh. Ye may endure their mockings, and all the hard measure which ye get her, for it
shall be recompensed unto them. And your lot is the same that other saints had, who now sleep
in the Lord. The gospel was preached unto them, and they had the same fruit of it before God,
and got everlasting life by it, yet they were judged in the world as well as you, and were
counted base and contemptible. Now, in this verse, he comes to particular exhortations from
the former reasons. This text hath two parts. I: An exhortation to some special duties, which
are so conjoined in this form of speech that they seem all but one duty. “Prayer” is the duty,
and sobriety and watchfulness are means to it. II: There is a reason given, because “the end
of all things is at hand.” So, then, ye have here the posture the world is in, and the posture
a Christian should be in. This is the world’s old age. It is declining, albeit it seem a fair
and beautiful thing in the eyes of them who know no better, and unto them who are of yesterday,
and know nothing. It looks as if it had been created yesterday, yet the truth is, and a believer
knows, it is near the grave. Gray hairs are here and there upon it, though many know it not,
and Jesus the Lord is at hand to put an end to it. Now, what should be your condition in the
meantime? What should immortal souls do, that are to remain for ever, and outlive this habitable
world? How should they be employed? The spirit and soul is to endure longer than the man’s
possessions, goods, honour, and place. How, then, should ye look upon these things? Here it
is. Be sober in the use of all things. Use the world as if ye used it not, watch unto prayer.
Ye are encompassed about with manifold temptations. Therefore watch, and be as men on their
way waiting for the Bridegroom. The bride’s exercise, since Christ hath ascended unto heaven,
should be to say, “Lord Jesus come quickly.”

In discoursing upon this subject, I: We shall speak of these three parts of a Christians duty
severally.  II: Consider how they help one another, and so jointly speak of them. And then,
III: Of the reason and motive to them all, and how it enforces such an exercise. As to be the
first of these, we observe, that sobriety is a duty becoming every Christian, that is united
unto Jesus Christ, and is separated by God’s holy calling from the rest of the world. I add
these two considerations because of the preceding verse. For in the first and second verses
he lays down an excellent ground of all kind of mortification, viz. the believer’s union with
Christ crucified. Jesus Christ suffered and died for us, as a Common Person, to sustain the
guilt of our sins. He died as a Cautioner and Undertaker for us and as our Head and King, and
we by virtue of that, are obliged to crucify sin also. In verses 3d and 4th, the other consideration
is set down. There ought to be a vast difference between a believer now, and before his conversion.
He should be separated from the world, that all the world may wonder at him, and think it strange
to see his conversation. Now I conceive this exhortation is gathered from both these, and the
word of reference therefore relates to the preceding verse, as well as his reason in the words
now read. Now therefore be sober. This sobriety is not limited to meat, drink or apparel, the
object of it is more comprehensive in scripture. It uses sometimes to be expressed singly,
without making mention of any particular matter, evidently importing, that sobriety ought to
be in all things. That which we ought to be sober in is certainly the “all things spoken of
in the reason of sobriety, whose end is at hand.” They are most distinctly expressed 1 John
ii. 15-17, “All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the pride
of life,” all that perishes is not of the Father, but of the world, that is, the world which
wicked men frame to themselves. Here then is a large commentary on “all things.” Therefore
whatever is in the world is the matter of sobriety. Whatever comes under the senses calls for
sobriety. Whatever comes under the object of the mind is the matter of sobriety. Nay, whatever
is corruptible and perishing, or whatever the last day of the Lord a coming shall put an end
to, in all these, there must be sobriety exercised. There is a threefold sobriety: 1. Sobriety
in the mind, or sober mindedness, Rom. xii. 3. We ought not to think more highly of ourselves
than we ought to think, “but to think soberly,” 1 Cor. iv. 6, 7, Tit. ii. 6, Rom. xi. 20, 1
Cor. vii. 2. Sobriety of mind is that excellent lesson that Christ Jesus both taught and practised
in his humble state. “Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart,” Matt. xi. 29. Humility
is not like Peter, who said, “Depart from me, for I am sinful man, O Lord,” “Lord, thou shalt
never wash my feet.” But humility is rather like Mary, that sat down at Christ’s feet, and
washed them with tears. Sobriety of mind does not undervalue God’s gifts and graces, neither
doth it overvalue them. It thinks of itself according to the measure of grace freely given,
(Rom. xii. 3) and sobriety looks on all its own gifts, and ornaments, as not its own but another’s,
as free gifts, and therefore it puffs not up a man against his neighbour, though he should
see a gift given beyond his neighbour. High mindedness is like the high bending of a string
of an instrument, which easily breaks in two pieces. Sobriety walks with a low sail, and creeps
through under the wind, but the high mind is like the cedar, that moves with the wind, and
falls when the bowing twig stands still. Some will think the aspiring of the spirit a sign
of a better spirit than the humble mind, and so look down upon others. But oh, if they walk
safely, they will walk humbly with God.

2. There is also sobriety in the affections when they are moderate. The objects of this world
which come under the affections, are either sinful and unlawful or in themselves lawful and
allowable. Now sobriety towards the first kind is simple abstinence, towards the second moderation.
The rule of the first is, “Abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the mind” (1 Pet. ii.
11), and, as it was said in another sense, “Touch not, taste not, handle not.” “Have no fellowship
with the unfruitful works of darkness,” Eph. v. 11. As a man who would be clean should not
touch pitch, and he who would not be burnt should not carry coals in his bosom, so ought the
child of God, who walked formerly in the lusts of ignorance, after the custom of this world,
to abstain from all appearance of evil (1 Thess. v. 22.), not only from sin itself, but from
all the occasions of it, and inducements unto it, all that which hath any appearance of evil.
There is no measure of moderation here, a man must not think to give his lusts part, and Christ
part. No, he must have all or none. Ye should have no quarters with sin, ye should be out of
speaking terms with it. The least motion of the affections and heart that way, is insobriety,
and inordinate affections. 3. But sobriety in things lawful is moderation, when the spirit
is kept within bounds, Col. iii. 1, 2. And the rule of this is that which Paul prescribes,
1 Cor. vii. 29, “Use the world as not abusing it,” knowing that the fashion of the world doth
pass away. Love this world as if ye loved it not. Every thing hath too much of the heart, and
Jesus Christ would have his royal palace his peculiar place here. He may have suitable affections
to God’s dispensations in this world, (for the Christian wants none of his senses,) yet he
ought not to be “greatly moved,” as David speaks, Psal. lxii. 2. Now we consider this in three
things, (1) In seeking of any thing; (2) In enjoying of any thing; (3) In losing or wanting
any thing. That rule of Paul’s may be applied to all the three, he should seek the world as
if he sought it not. He should enjoy the world as if he enjoyed it not. He should want or lose
the world as if he lost it not. This sobriety makes him want, in abundance, and abound, in
want,—to have nothing, and yet possess all things. All our time and pains and affections are
spent out upon these, and turn about on these three points. Desire, attended with care and
anxiety, goes out to fetch in any thing that the mind fancies. When the soul hath gotten its
desire, it delights and rejoices in it, and when it is frustrated, disappointed, or crossed,
it grieves and torments itself. If ye find a Christian sober in these, you find his pulse beat
well. (1) Ye should then seek the world or any thing, as if ye sought it not. We are given
to idolize the creatures, and dig broken cisterns, and forsake the fountain of living waters,
to seek the creature as if it were God, and the strength of affections uses to be spent on
it. Men have big and large apprehensions of the things of this world, and are like foolish
children amazed with pictures and dreams. Fancy busks(506) up and adorns the object with all
things suitable, and thus the poor soul is put in expectation of some thing, and stretcheth
out itself, to the utmost of its ability, to purchase that, which being had will not satisfy.
The world promises fair to deluded minds that know no better. But the child of God must be
sober here. He ought to have a low estimation of all created things, and conclude all under
vanity and vexation of spirit, Luke x. 41, 42. Sobriety so seeks, that it can want, because
it seeks a better thing that it cannot miss. But the poor worldling seeks this world as his
only thing, and if he want it, what hath he more? He must have it, or else he hath nothing.
The child of God should seek as a rich man that is satisfied, and needs no more, so that he
cares not whether he obtain or not. The worldlings seek it as their portion, their heart and
affections are on it, but he seeks it not as his portion, but as an accessory to his inheritance,
Matt, vi. 33. Again we observe, (2.) That the good man uses the world, and enjoys it, as if
he enjoyed it not. When riches increase, he sets not his heart on them. He is dead to the world,
and crucified to it. It is but an unpleasant thing to him, and he to it. He can be refreshed
with his meat more than another, because he sees God and his love in it, yet he hath it not
as his portion. He is not excessive in gladness for any dispensation cast in the balance, one
kind of dispensation or another. That which would make another man think he was half in heaven,
or half in hell, it will not add much moment and weight to such a spirit. It is but like the
casting in of a feather in a great balance, that will scarcely incline it to either side. (3)
He loses or wants(507) the world, as if he lost it not. That which would break another man’s
heart, sobriety will make him go light under, and not be much disquieted for any thing. Why,
what is the matter of it? Can it trouble his peace or access to God? Can his portion be removed?
What, then, should ail him, for the light of God’s countenance is more recompense than all
the world? Proceed we now to apply this in some uses.

Use I. It discovers unto the most part of men how little they are advanced in Christianity.
Many are insober in the use of the world, and what must their affections be? The works of darkness,
that become not the children of God nor the children of the day, are yet common in the visible
church. Insobriety in many is palpable, and written on their forehead. That beastly sin of
drunkenness abounds in many congregations. But II. We would even convince the Lord’s own children
of great short coming in this duty. Although your carriage before men might pass free of censure
of insobriety, yet O! how many things will God put such a construction on! There are many saints
that cannot walk soberly in the use of this world. They spend their time upon it, and this
is insobriety. Scarce can prayer and communion with God get an hour in the day from their calling,
and when ye have to spend, insobriety is written upon many passages of your behaviour. Your
meat, and drink, and clothing, should declare that ye are waiting for a better inheritance.
But O! how are your affections wedded unto this present world! The current and stream of many
of your thoughts go this way, what shall I eat or drink, or what shall I put on for clothing?
And ye spend your spirits in projecting, and in following out your projects. There are some
evident demonstrations of insobriety in the affections. For, (1) Most of your thoughts run
upon temporal things and certainly if your hearts were not in this world, your minds would
follow your hearts. Christians, too many amongst you spend whole days, and never any object
enters into your minds but one thing of the world after another. Your minds are highways for
the travellers of this world to come through. It may be ye will steal an hour, or half an hour
for prayer, but the rest of your conversation is not in heaven, but void of God. According
as every hour furnishes new opportunities, so are your minds here, Phil. iii. 20. And meditation
upon spiritual things, that is the nerves and sinews of religion, that is a rare thing. If
your affections were not more upon this world than upon Christ Jesus, would not our Saviour
be uppermost in your thoughts? Would not Christ interrupt your thoughts of the world? Would
not heaven come in the midst of your business, and get a spare look and ejaculation? The world
uses to interrupt your thoughts of God, and the mind is given to wander in prayer. But put
you upon something temporal, ye can fix your heart as long as you please, and never wander.
David was not so. He awaked, and was still with God. He meditates upon him in the night watches.
He remembers him day and night, (Psal. lxiii. 8) and this made him a lively Christian. But,
(2) If ye be seeking any thing, ye seek it so, as insobriety is stamped upon it. Your seeking
of the world is prejudicial to your seeking of God, and takes away much time for prayer. Ye
will be so eager in the pursuit of a momentary passing vanity, as ever ye were in the seeking
of God, Col. iii. 1, 2. Care and anxiety comes in to be your provision, and ye put not prayer
in the place of it, to make your requests known unto God. Ye seek it as if it were your portion
and inheritance, surely this is insobriety. (3) Look upon your affections toward present enjoyments,
and are ye sober? Ye can delight in these things, and take the sweetness of them, but the consolations
of God are a small thing to you. Any thing adds to your joy and lifts you up. Albeit ye be
not in good terms with God, yet ye can take your pleasure in the world. Ye see not a worm and
moth in your pleasures, ye are not afraid to fill your belly with honey. Some think themselves
made up when they get such a lot. But saints, are ye sober when such a thing changes your condition?
O but the children of God look upon this world as David did in his fretting condition, (Psal.
xxxviii.) and in his prosperous condition, Psal. xxx. Ye sit down and say, “My mountain stands
strong, and I shall never be moved.” Ye have more delight in your outward lot than ever ye
had in Jesus Christ. But, (4) When any outward thing goes cross to your mind, then your insobriety
appears. The taking(508) of a sad and cross dispensation will evidence how ye sought the world.
The taking away of a friend or idol, will declare ye idolized it. As the saints have too longing
desires for the things of this world, and look upon them as the paradise of God, not as Paul
did, who thought the world a dead thing, so remove any thing that ye enjoy, and your joy is
taken from you. Give you something for which you pray, your sorrow is away, and ye can no more
mourn for sin; and take something away, and your joy is gone, ye cannot delight in God. Ye
vex and disquiet yourselves in vain, and are weighed down with it. Are ye not then under the
feet of this present world, when it tramples upon you? Are ye not servants unto it, when your
condition altereth and changeth according to the nod of outward things? Ye may know what puts
you up and down that commands you, and this is not sobriety. Ye are drunk with the creature.
The child of God should be like mount Zion, that can never be moved. Therefore,

III. We would exhort all the saints to study more sobriety in this world. We need no more exhortation
than what Paul gives, 1 Cor. vii. 29. It is a strange language, saints, “Set not your affections
upon the things of this earth, but on the things which are above,” Col. iii. 1, 2. “Love not
the world, nor the things of the world,” &c., 1 John ii. 15-17. Ye ought to study such a walk
abstracted from this world, that ye might be as strangers at home, as sojourners in your own
country. The child of God should sit down in his own family among his children, as if he were
abroad, and he ought to be abroad, as if he were at home. Wherefore your life is called a pilgrimage,
and ye strangers. Engage not much your heart to any thing of this world. Take but a standing
drink and be gone, ye may not lay down your staff and burden, that his may bear you right.
(1) Consider that insobriety is idolatry. Insobriety puts the creature in God’s place, and
sobriety puts all things in their own place. When a man’s heart or affections are set on any
thing, that is his idol and his master, and Christ says, “Ye cannot serve God and mammon,”
(Matt. vi. 24) these two masters. Sure the worldling thinks not that he serves his riches,
yet Christ puts that construction upon his loving them well, Christ calls any thing that is
a man’s master his god. Now, any thing that the heart goes after is a man’s master. That which
commands a man’s affections commands the whole man, for the affections are the man’s master,
and they command the man. If ye knew this, ye would be afraid of spending your hearts upon
vanity; ye put that vanity in the place of Jesus Christ, and so your heart is a temple of idols,
and the great gospel promise (Ezek. xxxvi. 25, 26) hath not gotten place in you. The due place
of the creature is to be subservient to the Lord its Maker, to be only the footstool, that
he may have the throne. True insobriety puts the creature upon the throne, and worships it.
(2) Insobriety or love to the world hinders the love of God, as much as is added to the one,
is taken from the other, 1 John ii. 15. If the love of the world have one gram weight of allowance
more than Christ speaks of, that is incompatible with the love of the Father. The creature
will suffer a parting of affection, and will be content with a share, like the harlot and false
mother that would be content with the divided child; but God must have all or none, and will
not share with the creature. Ye may find it by experience when your hearts have been much set
upon any thing in this world, Christ Jesus has not been so pleasant to you, ye have not so
much delight in him. Affection must run in the channel, or it is but weak, if once ye divide
the streams. The love of the world makes the heart carnal, it is the defilement of the whole
soul, and a weight that easily besets us, that it cannot mount up in a cloud of divine affection
to Jesus. Can the needle go to two contrary points both at once? Can it move to the north and
the south at the same time? Such an opposition is there between the Father, and the things
of the world. If then ye turn your face on the creature, ye must turn your back upon God. Think
not, Christians, to keep love entire to God, and to set your affections on the world. Solomon’s
backsliding had this false principle, he thought to retain his integrity, and his wisdom should
abide with him, though he would try folly and madness, Eccles. vii. 23. But did he not grow
more foolish? Did he retain his wisdom? Many have come down from their excellence by this presumption.
(3) Insobriety is the world’s sin. It is the sin of the days of your ignorance, when ye walked
after the lusts of the Gentiles, and it is a shame for a child of God to be so. This duty(509)
is opposed to their former walking, verses 3d and 4th. There should be a great distance between
you and the world, that ye may seem men of diverse countries. Though ye dwell in one city or
in one house, ye ought so to walk as men may think it strange, as it may be, a wonder in the
world. O but few Christians give the worldly men occasion to speak of them for holiness, few
give them any ground for wondering at and mocking their conversation! Your conversation is
so like theirs, that they need not think any thing in it strange. Is it not a shame, saints,
to be like pagans? Christ uses such an argument with his disciples to dissuade them from carnal
carefulness, Matt. vi. 32. Sobriety is a work of the day becoming a child of light, as Paul
observes, 1 Thess. v. 4-9, importing as much as if it were a shame for the Christian to be
found much in love with the world, as it is for a man to be drunk at nine in the morning and
staggering in the streets. There ought to be as great a difference between you and the world,
as there is between day and night, light and darkness. Since the true light hath shined, to
discover a more excellent happiness than the world can give, and since it hath concluded all
under vanity, ye are not answerable to your holy calling to have it in any higher estimation.
Consider also, (4) That the world is not your portion. Your life consists not in what you enjoy,
your inheritance is above, reserved in the heavens for you. Therefore be sober. If ye believed
this, that one day ye shall put on white robes, and be clothed with immortality, would ye so
pursue after the world? It is the world’s portion, and let them who know no better seek it
as their god, and love it as their inheritance; but fie upon believers, that have a hope laid
up in heaven, and fixed as an anchor within the vail. Should ye cause your portion to be evil
spoken of, by your groping so much after this present world? If ye walked right ye should torment
the world, and oblige them to be convinced that ye seek a city to come, and that ye despise
all their enjoyments. But, (5) Insobriety becomes not a reasonable soul and is very unbeseeming
a Christian, even so is it to every man. Are ye not better, says Christ, than many sparrows?
Is not the life more than meat? Matt. vi. 25, Luke xii. 23, 24. So we may say, Is not the soul
better than the perishing creature? O it is the disgrace and debasement of an immortal spirit
to be put under the feet of a piece of clay, to be subjected to vanity, and to the poor perishing
things of the world. If a man but knew himself, and his natural prerogative above the creatures,
let be(510) his Christian privileges, he would despise the world, and think all that is in
it not a satisfying portion for his spirit. He would count it a great disparagement to lodge
upon this side of infiniteness and divine fulness. Would ye not think it a base thing to see
a king’s son sitting down among beggars, and puddling in the filth of the city? God made man
to have lordship and pre-eminence over the creatures, and his spirit shall outlive all these
things he sees, and looks to, and what a dishonour must it be to spend an immortal spirit on
vanity, to have no eye beyond the span of time? As Christ said, “What hath a man gained, if
he lose his own soul?” What gain ye in this world, though all things should befall you according
to your contentment, what gain ye, since ye prostitute an immortal soul unto the service of
the world, and have made it, to the prince of the world and all things, a servant and slave?

Sermon XXI.

    1 Pet. iv. 7.—“And watch unto prayer.”

“Watch.” A Christian should watch. A Christian is a watchman by office. This duty of watchfulness
is frequently commanded and commended in scripture, Matt. xxiv. 42, Mark xiii. 33, 1 Cor. xvi.
13, Eph. vi. 18, 1 Pet. v. 8, Col. iv. 2; Luke xii. 37. David did wait as they that did watch
for the morning light. The ministers of the gospel are styled watchmen in scripture and every
Christian should be to himself as a minister is to his flock, he should watch over himself.
This imports the Christian’s condition in this world, and expresses his exercise in it. Watching
is a military posture, and insinuates the Christian’s case in this world. He is compassed about
with enemies, and therefore he must be a soldier, 2 Tim. ii. 3. “Thou therefore endure hardness,
as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.” The Christian hath a warfare to accomplish in this world,
and therefore the church here is militant, and in heaven triumphant, 1 Tim. i. 18. What is
the reason that when Christ triumphed upon the cross, and conquered all his enemies, and is
ascended on high, that he hath not made all believers conquerors? Is the man that sits with
Christ in heavenly places, (Eph. ii. 6) and he who was dead with Christ, and also risen with
him, is he yet a soldier, when Christ hath overcome, and gotten the crown? And the believer,
hath he not the victory that Christ obtained? Why then is he put to fight any more? Hath not
Christ completely done it? Yes indeed, Christ hath overcome by his own strength, (Col. ii.
15) and is now on high, yet he will have the poor pieces of contemptible clay to overcome the
Archangel,(511) the immortal spirits. It was not so much for the prince Gabriel,(512) the messenger
of the covenant, the King of saints, to overcome his own creature, but he hath drawn out a
battle and warfare to all his followers, that, in the strength of their victory in him already
past, they may be made more than conquerors, and that there may be a perpetual song of triumph
and victory in heaven, he hath made the saints strong, and hath made the strong weak. He hath
set the poor with princes, and the kings on the dunghill. The Christian’s heart and grace are
like a besieged city, that is blocked up upon every hand, there are enemies without, and false
friends within. Its party is great principalities and powers, &c. (Eph. vi. 12) and these go
about continually to spy a breach. In the city, what strength can do, what policy can do, will
not be wanting. All things of the world besiege the heart, and every sense is a port to let
the enemy in. All a man’s negotiation and trading in the world, is as dangerous as the proclaiming
a public market in a town, for the country, while the enemy is about it. There is a desperate
wicked heart within, that hath deceived many thousands, and would surrender the city upon any
occasion. Here are fleshly lusts which war against the soul, (1 Pet. ii. 11) temptation to
sin, and to unbelief. There is a heart within that can conceive and bring forth sin, and needs
no temptation, a heart within that can seduce temptation itself, but it follows the tempter
and when to all that a foreign power is added, Oh then, who can stand? Christ himself was tempted,
but Satan found nothing in him, and had nothing in him, but when Satan comes he finds all in
us, and we are like powder to conceive flame. We can even tempt ourselves, as well as be tempted
by another. The Christian keeps a house that the enemy surrounds, and if he sleep he will enter,
he is here a pilgrim, and is not yet come home, yet he hath a foul and dangerous way to go
through. He is like a servant that his lord hath left, and given provision to, and is to come
home when he pleases, Mark xiii. 33, Matt. xxiv. 32. If his master find him sleeping, woe to
him. This is his case. What then should his exercise and posture be? He should be a watchman.
(1) Watching is opposed to security and sleeping, Matt. xxiv. 42, Mark xii. 33. He must keep
his eyes open, or else he is gone, (1 Pet. v. 8) be vigilant, lest the devil attack him. The
sluggard’s destruction comes as an armed man, because of his “little sleep” and slumber, Prov.
vi. 10, and Prov. xx. 13. Security is the Christian’s night, when he ceases from his labour,
and the adversary does with him according to his pleasure. But the Christian is in a better
condition when he is wrestling with temptation, and getting sore blows. When he is at peace
and dwells securely, as the people of Laish, he troubles himself with nothing, but dreams over
his days, but that is a decaying condition. (2) To watch, is to observe all things, 1 Sam.
iv. 13, Luke vi. 7. This is a special point of the watchman’s duty, to let nothing pass by
without observation, whatever object would come in, to ask at it from whence, and whither.
The heart is a highway side that all things travel through.  If the Christian then be not exact
in this to know what comes in, and what is its errand, he may be surprised or he know. He should
observe all the motions of the enemy, and be well acquainted with all the subtleties of temptations.
He must know his own spirit, or his thoughts, he should also observe all the Lord’s motions
and dealings with his spirit. It concerns him also to know what is his enemy or friend. Therefore
the Christian should get upon the watch tower of the word, and look through the prospect(513)
of faith round about him, that he may know what his spiritual condition is.  But, (3) The watchman
gives warning while it is seasonable, and the enemy far off. He raises the alarm, and all must
be in readiness. So ought ye to be. Come to Jesus Christ with all ye observe, inform the Captain
of your salvation whose soldiers you are. It is best dealing with temptation far off, and resisting
the first motions of sin, for when it comes near hand, it gets many friends within, and it
is the watchman’s part not to give his judgment of what he sees, but to report only. Do not
ye sit down to pass the sentence on any thing, whether it be good or evil, sin or not, but
come unto Jesus, and let him speak, for oftentimes we reason according to flesh and blood.
(4) There must be no interruption in this watching. He must give diligent heed to it, Mark
xiii. 33, 1 Thess. v. 6. It is a very laborious exercise for a Christian to watch, all his
senses will be exercised by it. He must look up, and that steadfastly, he must stand, and when
he hath done all, to stand. When he hath overcome he must yet watch, lest he enter into temptation.
He is in greater hazard after victory than before, Ezra vi. 13. He must watch when he is come
out of one temptation lest he enter into another. The greatest disadvantage that armies have
gotten hath been after some victory, when they were secure. Therefore we ought to give all
diligence, and love not sleep, lest we come into poverty.

From what hath been said, (1) We see how few are in a warlike posture against Satan. Many serve
under Satan’s colours, and the strong man keeps the house. They watch not against him, but
for him, they fight for him, and not against him. Do not many Christians, in profession, even
watch for their sin, how to encompass what they would be at?  Many wait on all advantages to
get their own heart’s desires, they watch against God’s word, to hold out conviction. These
are the children of darkness, in whom the devil reigns. We also observe from this, (2) That
even the children of God are seldom found watching. There is much woful security among them
and this is the universal complaint, who of you walks as if you were among enemies? Ye walk
as if ye were in a peaceable city without gates, as the people of Laish, who dwelt securely.
Ye have no friend in all the world, and yet what unspeakable negligence and sleeping is there
among you? The flesh is so weak, that ye cannot watch but one hour for Christ. And O! but the
intermission of one hour’s watching hath brought down many strong ones. This made a breach
upon David that could hardly be made up for ever again. From the words, (3) We observe, that
prayer is a part of a good Christian’s exercise.  We may be ashamed to speak or hear of this
duty. It is true, indeed, our religion is all compendized in this duty. Yet this duty is so
little in practice, that our religion must be but little. We would, then, speak somewhat of
prayer, and observe,

1. That it is the distinguishing character of a Christian in scripture. The child of God, and
the man that calls upon God’s name, is all one and the same thing. The wicked man’s name is
one that calls not upon God, nor seeks him, but the godly call upon their Maker, Acts ix. 11,
1 Cor. i. 2. All the saints in scripture have been praying men. The wicked, or natural man,
is not an indigent man, he wants nothing, and therefore seeks nothing from God, but the Christian
is one who hath nothing in himself, a beggar by birth, one that is cast out into the open field,
and he is still seeking to make up his losses.  Praying and wanting goes hand in hand together.
Prayer then is the first breathing of the new man. What sign of life would ye know him by?
Motion is an infallible sign of life and this is the motion of the new creature. Prayer is
the stirring of the soul, and going out of itself for bread, it is the sucking of the breasts
of consolation. Grace turns a man’s face God-ward and Christ-ward. 2. Prayer is the pouring
out of an indigent man’s heart in God’s bosom. It is the emptying of the soul, and the landing
of it on God’s lee shore, Psal. cii. 2, 1 Sam. i. 10, Psal. cxlii. 2, &c. When a pious heart
is overwhelmed and sore disquieted, it prays. Prayer emptieth the vessel, and brings the soul
above the water again. It is a present ease in the time of trouble. Care and anxiety of spirit
plunge the soul over the ears, but prayer brings it again unto dry land, Phil. iv. 6. Care
burns and drowns a man’s requests, but prayer makes them known to God in every circumstance
of life. Therefore prayer is called a “making known our requests unto God,” and “the lifting
up of our souls unto God,” Psal. xxv. 1, 2. But, 3. Prayer is the provision of a soul, for
it is sufficient to do that which carefulness and thoughtfulness undertake to do, and effectuate
not, Phil. iv. 6. Prayer does all a man’s business. He lives by prayer, as Paul lived by Christ
living in him, &c. Gal. ii. 20. He lived the natural life of a Christian by faith. So David
says, “I gave myself unto prayer,” he opposes this unto all that his enemies do against him.
Not only doth it ease the spirit of the present burden, but prayer does all his business, because
it puts it over into a better hand, viz., the hand of him who cares for us, 1 Pet. v. 6. It
is like a child who is under his father’s tutory,(514) and he does nothing himself, but all
is done for him, and he needs to do no more but ask, and have, to seek, and find, to knock,
and it shall be opened unto him. Prayer hath the promise of all spiritual and valuable blessings,
and the promise is true. 4. Prayer speaks a life of indigence and dependence in the creature,
and also speaks out the attributes of God, for the supply of all our need, sovereignty, bounty,
and good will in God. It is the travelling of the poor creature between his own emptiness and
God’s all sufficient fulness. It acknowledges that he hath nothing, and that God hath all things
he can desire to make him happy. Prayer is an act of homage and subjection to our Creator,
and it is also an act of love and reverence, for prayer looks upon God, as a Lord, a Father,
and a Master. 5. Prayer is the pulse of a Christian, and here ye may find him. If he be vigorous
and frequent here, he is well, a decay in this is a woful symptom of a dangerous and dwining(515)
condition. This is the fountain of the spirit of life, and the Spirit’s breath. For the Spirit
helps our infirmities with groans which cannot be uttered, (Rom. viii. 26, 27) and according
as the Spirit of God dwells in a man, in so far is he a good Christian. If, then, ye would
ask how ye should walk here, and thrive in true Christianity, we would only say this, pray
fervently and without ceasing. Pray and prosper, and daily be strong, and the Lord shall be
with you. He will never fail nor forsake you. Again, consider, 6. That prayer is not so much
a duty as a privilege, and if saints knew this, prayer would not so often be a burden unto
them. Is there any privilege like this? For prayer is an admission into the secrets of God,
it is an emptying of the heart into his bosom. It is a great part of our correspondence with
heaven. It is a swift messenger sent thither, that never comes back with ill news. It never
returns empty, but accomplishes its intent. Prayer is as it were speaking with God face to
face, as a man speaks to his friend, and is it not an honourable privilege, that believers
are admitted to him, and may boldly come to him under all their necessities, and have such
a sympathizing friend as Jesus? What is wonderful in scripture is, that God hath put that honour
upon prayer to be instrumental in obtaining the greatest blessings. Did not the Lord, at the
prayer of Moses, dry up the Red sea? Did he not, at the prayer of Elias, withhold and give
rain? Did not the prayer of Joshua make the sun to stand still, till he had vanquished his
enemies? Wherefore was all this? Could he not have done it unasked? Certainly, but the Lord
would put that honour and respect upon prayer in all ages, that it might be a demonstration
to all ages and generations, how ready and propense(516) God was to hear prayer. Nay, to speak
with reverence, God will submit his own omnipotence to prayer. Command, ask of me, and command
me, says the high and holy One, Isa. xlv. 11. O but “the effectual fervent prayer” of the righteous
avails much, 1 James v. 16. It does a man’s business, and upon less expenses; it gives a reward
in the hand, and the hope of the things sought. Withal, prayer is like Jacob’s getting that
within doors, without much toil, which careful Esau goes about all the fields for, and toils
all day to obtain. Prayer is the most compendious way of remedy of all things else. It always
makes up losses either of the same kind, or better; for if the loss be temporal, if the want
be bodily, prayer makes it up with access unto God. It pays in gold. If it give not the same
coin, yet it is better.

We have spoken something of prayer for this end, that your hearts may fall in love with it.
It is the property of a sincere upright man, that he calls always upon God, whereas the hypocrite
will not always do it. Count, then, yourselves as much Christians as ye find of the spirit
of prayer and supplication in you; for those that call not on God, their portion is very terrible.
God will pour out his wrath upon them. God’s face is set against such as do not pray. And I
believe the multitude of this visible kirk have this brand upon their face, they call not upon
God. God hath taken this character to himself, “the hearer of prayer,” and those who mock at
it, their judgment hasteneth, their damnation slumbereth not.

Sermon XXII.

    1 Pet. iv. 7.—“Be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer.”

We now come to consider the coherence and connexion these duties have one to another. First,
Prayer is the principal part of the Christian’s employment, and sobriety and watchfulness are
subordinate to it. “Be sober, and watch unto prayer.” (1.) Prayer is such a tender thing that
there is necessity of dieting the spirit unto it. That prayer may be in good health, a man
must keep a diet and be sober, sobriety conduces so much to its well-being, and insobriety
makes prayer fail. Prayer respects a wholesome Christian at his best estate. (2.) Because prayer
that is well in itself must have much divine affection in it, that may be the wings of it to
rise upon, the oil that may keep the flame, James v. 16. Now insobriety is the moth of divine
affection. The love of this world eats out the love of God and spiritual things; as much as
the one goes up the other goes down, like the contrary points, 1 John ii. 15. Vehement desires
would be a cloud of incense to carry the petition up unto heaven; but the love of this world
scatters it, pours water upon the heart, and makes it neither to conceive heat nor flame. To
be carnally minded is death, both here and hereafter, Rom. viii. 5-7. It is death to duties,
it kills the spiritual life of the soul. Insobriety is carnal-mindedness, and minding of the
flesh, so that a man hath no more taste of Jesus Christ than the white of an egg. It quite
distempers his taste, and makes that only savoury which is like itself, and all other things
bitter. But, (3.) Prayer must have hope in it. For how shall a man pray if he hope not to come
speed? If he maintain not a lively hope, he will cool in his petitions. Insobriety is not consistent
with hope to the end, 1 Pet. i. 17. He that would hope to the end must lift up his garments
that hang side, and take a lick(517) of every thing by the way; he must not let them hang down,
but gird up his affections with the girdle of truth and sobriety. We observe, (4.) That prayer
must come out of a pure heart, and God must be worshipped in spirit and in truth, John iv.
23, 24; 2 Tim. ii. 22. Insobriety makes an unclean heart; the lusts of the flesh, and the love
of the world defile the spirit, and makes it to send forth impure streams. (5.) There cannot
be lodging for the Spirit where there is much love to the world. This grieves the Spirit, and
makes him depart from us, and so a man is best to express his own groans, or to have none at
all, which is worse. Where the Spirit of the Lord is there is liberty, and the Spirit must
have a clean house; ye must touch no unclean thing, if you would have God to receive you into
the holy adoption of his children. (6.) Prayer cannot thrive where faith is not in a good condition.
For faith purifies the heart which sends out prayer, 1 Tim. i. 6; Acts xv. 9; 2 Tim. ii. 22;
and O! but insobriety makes an ill conscience; and faith and a good conscience scarce sail
in one bottom.(518) Both fall and stand together. How then can the soul look that Holy One
in the face whose eyes are pure, and cannot look upon iniquity but with abhorrence? how can
it look upon his holiness, when it hath been going a-whoring after the world, and forsaking
the fountain of living waters? In a word, the heart that is not dead to this present world,
will neither pray much nor well; for the heart is otherwise taken up, hath not many wants to
spread before God, nor room for spiritual things. The creature gives him no leave to come to
God. O but communion with God is a tender thing, and subject to many alterations and changes
of weather! A little more mirth than is needful will indispose us for prayer. A little more
sadness than is within bounds will also indispose us for this duty. Carefulness and anxiety
cannot pray. Therefore it concerns all the saints to keep their hearts with all diligence,
to keep themselves unspotted from the world. If ye would keep yourselves in speaking terms
with God, ye must not entertain the creature too much. Any excess in your affections will divert
the current of them, that they shall not run towards God. And next, ye see a solid reason why
ye are so little in prayer, and keep not a praying temper, because ye are too liberal and lavish
of your affections upon the world. Christians, how can ye pray, when your affections are upon
the things of the earth? Will ye seek heavenly things, or care much for communion with God,
when a present world is so much in your eye? Prayer must be wersh(519) and unsavoury when the
world is sweet; and religion turns a compliment, when your hearts are here. Prayer is a special
point of your conversation in heaven, and the love of this world keeps your hearts beneath
heaven. Your treasure is here, and your hearts can be nowhere else willingly. Ye must then
be mortified to the world before ye can pray aright. But we would likewise consider,

Secondly, That sobriety is a great furtherance to watching, and therefore they are usually
joined together, 1 Pet. v. 8; 1. Thess. v. 6-9. This is clear. For if a man be not sober, but
drink too much of the creature’s sweetness, or bitterness, till he lose his feet, he cannot
watch, and the enemy will make invasion when he sleeps. Sobriety is the mother of security.
A surfeit of any thing indisposes the body for any action. When the mind goes without the bounds
of moderation, and stretches its Christian liberty beyond the bounds of edification, it cannot
hold waking, a little sleep and slumber overtakes, till poverty and destruction come like an
armed man. (2.) When a man hath drunk to excess of the creature and hath his heart engaged
to it, he is in an incapacity to discern a friend from an enemy; whatever comes in with his
predominant or idol will get fair quarters; though it may be, it will betray him. The love
of the world when it stands centry at a man’s heart, will keep out true friends. It will hold
out Jesus Christ and spiritual things, all that seems to come in contrary terms with itself,
and will let in the enemy that will destroy the soul. (3.) Insobriety entangles a man with
the snares of the world, and so he cannot be a good soldier of Jesus. I think the conjunction
here is expressed more fully, 2 Tim. ii. 2-4. The good soldier of Jesus Christ that wars a
good warfare, must not entangle himself with the affairs of this life. He must be sober in
the use of all things, or else he cannot be faithful to his master; he will be about his own
business when he should be watching. He will not only labour to please the Captain of his salvation,
Jesus, but he has many other things to please besides: and if any of his too kind friends come
to speak with him, he will leave his duty and go apart with them, the watchman’s office will
take him up nothing beside. But the insober man cannot give himself wholly to it. Because his
idols cry upon him, he will prefer his pleasures before his credit and honesty. Therefore,
as ye would not expose your souls and all ye have, to the will of temptation, be sober. The
devil hath gotten his will of a man that he can force to lie down with the creature, and sleep
in its bosom. If once Satan can gild up the world in your eyes, and represent it amiable, and
cause high and big apprehensions of it, O, ye are in the greatest hazard from the world of
being overcome wholly by it! That was the temptation Satan sought to prevail with Christ by,
but he found nothing in him. If the devil hath taken thee up to a mountain to see the glory
of the world, and make you fancy a pleasant life here-away,(520) take heed of it, for ye will
drink drunk,(521) and forget yourselves, and will not discern between good and evil.

Thirdly. Prayer must be watched unto. We must not only pray, but continue “instant in prayer,”
Rom. xii. 12. We must “continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving,” Col. iv.
2. It is a strange expression, and familiar in scripture, Eph. vi. 18. O what a strange word
is it! It is either very needless, or else imports the unspeakable necessity of prayer. “Praying
always,” what needed more? But we must pray with all manner of “prayer and supplication in
the Spirit;” and more yet, “watching thereunto;” and to express the superlative degree of the
necessity of prayer, he adds “with all perseverance.” Since the words at the first view do
speak infinitely more than we practise, let many a Christian express their own practice and
set it down beside this verse, and blush and be ashamed. The most part of you behoved to speak
thus, I pray sometimes morning and evening, when I have nothing to do. And is this praying
always, and watching thereunto with all perseverance? To watch unto prayer we conceive speaks
these things.

I. To observe all opportunities, occasions, and advantages of prayer,—to be glad of getting
any occasion to sit down and pray. It is to seek out occasions and to be waiting for them.
Too many use to excuse themselves easily that their other employments take them up, and they
think on this account they may omit prayer with a good conscience, as ministers, busied about
their calling, and at their book, think it no omission that they pray not often. But alas,
is this watching unto prayer? Ye should be as men lying in wait upon some good opportunity
to take hold of it. Prayer would hinder no business of that kind, but much further it. Prayer
would be the compendious way of it. Ye used not to be challenged when ye get not a commodity(522)
to pray; but do ye seek opportunity when it is not offered? Do ye look after a retiring place,
and withdraw from company, when ye cannot pray with company? This were indeed watching unto
prayer. But watching unto prayer will make men sometimes uncivil (so to speak, that which it
may be would be called uncivility). It will be a very pressing necessity that will draw away
the time of prayer, no compliment should hinder you to go to it. If ye got a corner alone,
that would invite a man that watches unto prayer. He even seeks it when he finds it not offering
itself. The watcher unto prayer will steal much of his time from others, and other employments,
and he will not spend time unnecessarily.

II. To watch unto prayer is to accept willingly of all occasions and opportunities offered.
O! if such a man find a corner, but it will be seasonable and sweet unto him. If he have nothing
to do, and knows not how to pass his time, then he conceives he is called to prayer, and to
keep communion with God. But how many opportunities have ye, and what advantage make ye of
them? Ye have time and place convenient, all the day or much of it, and yet ye content yourselves
with an ordinary set diet. Sure this is not watching. Watching unto prayer would make all emergent
occasions welcome, ye would not have any impulse of the Spirit and motion to pray, but ye would
follow it, and be led by the Spirit to your duty. Ye would not hear of any rare passage of
providence, or any of God’s dispensations towards yourselves, and other saints, but you would
think it a good call to pray and make the right use and improvement of it.

III. To watch unto prayer is to observe all the impediments of prayer, all the enemies of that
precious thing prayer, that ye ought to keep as the apple of your eye. Whatever ye find by
experience prejudicial unto prayer, mark that. What indisposes the spirit and makes it carnal,
mark that. What fills you with confusion and astonishment, and what hinders the liberty of
your delighting in God, and rejoicing in his promises, mark that; and set yourselves against
these. O but many Christians find liberal discoursing, and much mirth, prejudicial to the Spirit’s
temper, and yet who watches against it?

IV. Watch over your hearts that ye may keep a praying temper, and be still in speaking terms
with God. And if ye would still keep a praying temper, 1. Be frequent and often in the meditation
of God. Keep yourselves in his presence, as before him, that ye may walk under the sight of
his eye, Psal. cxix. 168; Psal. cxxxix. 1-7. Stealing out of God’s sight makes the heart bold
to sin. The temper of the heart is but like the heat of iron, that keeps not when it is out
of the fire, or like the melting of wax. If ye be out of God’s sight your hearts will close.
But, 2. Let no object come through your mind without examination of it. Let not your heart
be a highway for all. If a good motion enter, entertain it, and let it not die out. Give it
up to God, that he may cherish it. 3. Repel not any motion of the Spirit, but entertain it.
There are three things ye would watch over, as, (1.) Yourselves, your own hearts, Prov. iv.
23, &c. ye must keep your heart, and it keeps all. (2.) Watch over your duty, Luke viii. 18.
(3.) The time of Christ’s coming, his second coming to judgment, Matt. xxiv. 42; Mark xiii.
33. So did David wait and watch till the Lord should return, Psal. cxxx. 5, 6. So did Job wait
all the days of his appointed time, till his change came. Now, Christians, where are ye? Is
not your practice your shame? It is one among a thousand professors that can be noted for much
praying. Who among you can get this commendation that the Holy Ghost gives to Anna, she served
God with fasting and prayer night and day? Your morning and evening are the limits of your
duty, and it is almost an heresy to go beyond that. Is there any tender well-doing Christian
in scripture, but he prayed much? This made David so exemplary, and hath not Jesus Christ gone
before you, (Heb. v. 7.) to lead the way? O! but Christ’s praying so often in the days of his
flesh, and making supplication with strong cries, is a crying witness against the sloth of
Christians in this generation. Both people and pastor, how should ye be ashamed? Hath Jesus
prayed so long and often, and should not the poor followers, indigent beggars, be all in supplication?
The Christian should name himself as David did, “I gave myself to prayer.” Many a man sits
down to his employment and prays not much, because he hath gifts and abilities. But so did
not Christ, who was able to save, yet he prayed and went about the Father’s work with dependence
upon him. And O that ministers would seek all from heaven immediately, and people seek it from
heaven also! Think ye that the Spirit will take twice a-day for praying always, and set times
for watching thereunto? No, no, we think there is little of this practised in this generation.

Now we come to the reason that is added in the text, “the end of all things is at hand;” that
is, the day of the Lord is at hand. Christ Jesus, who was once here offered for sins, shall
again appear without sin, unto salvation, unto them who look and wait for his appearance; and
he shall put an end to all these things, either to themselves, by consuming them, or to the
use of them. All that ye now dote upon is perishing, and it is not far hence that ye shall
see the world in a flame, and all that ye spend your spirits on; and Jesus Christ shall bring
salvation to his own saints, therefore be sober and watch. But how is it that the end is said
to be at hand? Are not many generations passed since this word was spoken? It is almost two
thousand years since, and yet Peter spake of it, and Christ spake of this day, as at hand.
Sure it must be nearer us now than it was then. The day of the Lord is at hand: I. Because
if we would count years as God doth, we would call the world but of one week’s standing, for
God counts a thousand years as but one day, 2 Pet. iii. 8, 9. The world thinks he is slack
concerning his promise, and asks, “Where is the promise of his coming?” But believers, think
not ye so, reckon years according to the duration of the Ancient of days, and by faith see
the Lord’s day at your hand, as it were to-morrow still. But, II. It is not without special
reason that the New Testament speaks of all the time from Christ’s coming to the end, as the
last time, as it were but one age or generation immediately preceding the great day, as if
the day of judgment were to be, or this generation of the earth would pass. It is of great
use to us, because the Lord would have believers in the last age of the world come to some
great pitch of mortification and deadness to the world, and hope of immortality, than has been
come to before. He would have them be as men waiting for the Bridegroom, and this their exercise,—every
one in his generation standing with his loins girded, and his shoes put on ready for the journey,
and his lamp in his hand, Luke xii. 37; Mark xiii.; Matt. xxv. He would have all walking as
if the day of judgment were to-morrow, as if the King of saints were now entering into the
city, and all believers should go out to meet him as their King bringing salvation.

This then is the posture of the world, all things are near run, the fashion of this world passes
away, 1 Cor. vii. 29: and the same exhortation is here pressed. This then, I say, is the state
all things ye see are in, it is their old age. The creation now is an old rotten house, that
is all dropping through, and leaning to the one side. The creature is now subject to vanity
and groaning, Rom. viii. 21, 22. The day is not far hence, that this habitable world must be
consumed, and O! but many a man’s god and idol will then be burnt to ashes. 2 Pet. iii. 10-12,
“The heavens shall pass away with a great noise,” &c. God hath suffered men to live long in
this world, that they might come to repentance, and he hath kept it so long for the elect’s
sake. If it had not been for them, the world should not be unburied till six hours at night;(523)
but when he hath gathered in all the election, then shall an end be put to all the administrations
of kingdoms, all governments, all nations. Think ye that God had so much respect to the world,
or to the kings of it? No, he would put an end to all the kingdoms of the world, and never
let them make their testament, if the elect were completed. If Christ were completed, there
would be no marrying or giving in marriage, no more food and raiment, no more laws and government,
all your fair lands and buildings must go to the fire. Now ask the question that Peter asks,
“Seeing all things shall be dissolved, what manner of conversation ought ye to have?” And here
it is answered, “Be sober, and watch unto prayer.” Ask at Paul, and he will tell you, (1 Cor.
vii. 29, 30, 31.) “The time is short,” what remains then, but that he that marries be as they
who marry not, they that weep as they that wept not, &c. So then here is the duty of those
who look for Christ’s second coming; Christ hath left it with you till he come again, and put
an end to all things: “be ye sober and vigilant.” But consider what strength this reason hath
to enforce this exercise, and how suitable this duty is to them who look for Christ’s second
coming. 1. In relation to sobriety it hath a twofold force; for, (1.) It is all the absurdity
of the world, that ye should so eagerly pursue perishing vanities; that ye should fall in love
with the old decrepit world that is groaning under vanity, and very near consumption. The day
is coming that the soul shall see all these things destroyed to ashes, and what will it then
think of this idol? This is the thing I lost my soul for, and it is gone. And O how tormenting
a thing will it be to the conscience! How have I been put by heaven for a thing of nought,
for a vanity! Be sober, for the world cannot be a portion to an immortal spirit. Your spirit
is immortal, and will continue after these things are gone, and it will outlive this world.
Your goods and good name, your pleasures and profits, your lands and rents, all will have an
end, and your spirit shall continue after them. Why then will ye choose that for your portion
that will take wings and flee from you, or you will leave it? When ye see all burnt up, where
then will your god and your portion be? (2.) Christian believers, ye have another portion;
for Christ, who comes to put an end to these things, shall appear in glory, and ye shall appear
with him in glory. He shall come with salvation to you, Heb. ix. 28; Col. iii. 4. Your life
shall appear with him. Your inheritance is above. That sweet Saviour that came unto this world
for saving lost sinners, shall come again, and will not think himself complete without you,
and till he have all his members at his right hand. And therefore, saints, be sober. While
ye are in this world, ye need not any other thing in the interim but the hope of eternal life,
to keep your hearts, and hold them up. O but ye will think yourselves well come to it ere it
be long. Ye may laugh at the poor, blind, demented(524) worldlings, who are standing in slippery
places, and like children catching a shadow, or labouring to comprehend the wind in their fists.
They are but dreaming that they eat and drink, and behold when the great day of awakening comes
at the resurrection, they find their souls empty, though while they lived they blessed their
own souls, and men blessed them also. Your inheritance is above, and what need ye more that
have such a hope? May ye not purify yourselves as he is pure, and purge your hearts from all
corruptions, and use this world as strangers, in your passage through it, that owns nothing
as their own? Ye have no propriety(525) here, and therefore ye may the better live as strangers.
But, 2. In relation to watching; Christ Jesus is coming, and is near, therefore watch. This
Christ himself presses earnestly: Be as men that wait for the coming of their Lord, since he
is not far off. Therefore, Christians, ye ought to be upon your feet, and not sit down with
the creature. Ye should entertain this hope of his coming, and comfort yourselves by it, and
be kept at your duty by it. I may say, there is nothing that is less known among Christians.
Christ and his apostles often pressed it, as it seems he would have it the one ever running
duty, through all generations. Ye ought then to be ready for Christ’s coming, and not be found
sleeping. 3. In relation to prayer; for if the end of all things is at hand, and Christ will
soon come again, then the Spirit’s exercise, and the bride’s should be, “Come, Lord Jesus,
come quickly.” Pray Christ back again, and say, Why tarry his chariot wheels? Pray him back
with salvation, and hasten his return by prayer. He hath left such a dependent condition, left
such an employment for us, as speaks dependence and necessity. This is the time of promises,
and we ought to pray for their accomplishment. In heaven there will be no prayer, for prayer
shall be swallowed up in praise, faith in vision, and hope in possession. But prayer is a duty
suitable to the time, and to the Christian’s minority, to his banishment and sojourning. Dream
not of an eternity here-away. Learn wisdom to number your days, and apply your hearts to religious
wisdom; and if ye die thus, ye may rejoice that so many of the number are passed, and cannot
return again.

FOOTNOTES

    1 Baillie’s Letters and Journals, vol. iii. pp. 286-288, MSS in Bib.
      Col. Glas.

    2 “A Letter from Head Quarters in Scotland”

      “SIR, We came hither on Saturday last, April 19th. The ministers and
      townsmen generally staid at home, and did not quit their habitations
      as formerly. These ministers that are here are those that have
      deserted from the proceedings beyond the water, yet they are equally
      dissatisfied with us. And though they preach against us in the
      pulpit to our forces, yet we permit them without disturbance, as
      willing to gain them by love. My Lord General sent to them to give
      us a friendly Christian meeting, to discourse of those things, which
      they rail against us for, that (if possible) all misunderstandings
      between us may be taken away, which accordingly they gave us on
      Wednesday last. There was no bitterness nor passion vented on either
      side, with all moderation and tenderness. My Lord General the
      Major-Gen. Lambert, for the most part maintained the discourse, and
      on their part, Mr. James Guthrie, and Mr. Patrick Gelaspy. We know
      not what satisfaction they have received. Sure I am, there was no
      such weight in their arguments, that might in the least discourage
      us from what we have undertaken, the chiefest thing on which they
      insisted being our invasion into Scotland”—Sev. Proc. in Parl. May
      1, to 8 Cromwelliana, p. 102. See also Durham’s Comment on Revel.
      Life of the Author, p. xi.

    3 Nicoll’s Diary, pp. 68, 94.

    4 Along with Dr. John Owen, Joseph Caryl, John Oxenbridge, and
      Cuthbert Sydenham officiated as chaplains in the army of Cromwell in
      Scotland. Orme’s Memoirs of Dr. Owen, p. 128. Neal’s History of the
      Puritans, vol. iv. p. 490, Lond. 1822.

    5 Memoirs of Dr. Owen, p. 127.

    6 See note, p. 512.

    7 Annals of Scotland, vol. iv. p. 208.

    8 Baillie’s Letters, vol. iii. p. 200. MSS in Bib. Col. Glas.

    9 Memorials of English Affairs from the beginning of the Reign of
      Charles I. to the Restoration, pp. 444-446, Lond. 1682.

   10 Hist. of Eng. vol. vi. pp. 180, Lond. 1825.

   11 Memoirs of Dr. Owen, p. 126.

   12 Thurlow’s State Papers, vol. i. p. 189.

   13 Thurlow’s State Papers, vol. i. pp. 139, 160.

   14 Orme’s Life and Times of Richard Baxter, vol. i. pp. 140, 141.

   15 P. 520.

   16 “At Cathcart Kirk, 19th Oct., 1652

      “Mr. Robert Baylie renewed his protestation given in be him the last
      daye, against Mr. Hew Binnen moderating of the Presbyterie, in his
      own name and in the name of so many as would adhere to that
      protestation; and that upon the additional reason that Mr. Hew
      Binnen of his own accord, had gone in to hear an Englishman preach
      in his own kirk in the parish of Govan, who attended Colonel
      Overtoun’s regiment, and that the said Mr. Hew, be his example and
      counsel, had moved the people to do the like, and did maintain the
      lawfulness of this his action, in the face of the presbyterie as if
      the abstaining from this should have been a needless separatione
      upon his part, and the part of his people, though that having found
      that some took offence at it, he did no more countenance that man’s
      preaching”—(Records of Presbytery of Glasgow). At the previous
      meeting Bailie had protested against Mr. Binning’s appointment to
      the moderator’s chair because he maintained, another member of the
      presbytery had a greater number of uncontraverted votes.—Id.

   17 An Apology for the Clergy of Scotland, p. 45, London, 1692.

   18 Orme’s Mem. of Dr. Owen, p. 488.

   19 Christian Instructor, vol. xxi. p. 547; Biog. Presb., vol. i. p.
      131; Lorimer’s Eldership, p. 155.

   20 Neal’s History of the Puritans, vol. iii. p. 120.

   21 Id. p. 318. Mr. Herle, who came to Scotland with the Earl of
      Nottingham and the Earl of Stanford preached in the High church of
      Edinburgh on Sunday the 27th of February, 1648. Mr. Stephen Marshall
      not long after, at the request of Mr. George Gillespie one of the
      ministers of Edinburgh, preached in the same church, “he,” says
      Bishop Guthry “who being here four years ago professed to be a
      presbyterian, but since turned independent.”—(Memoirs of Bishop
      Guthry, &c., pp. 256-258, second edition). Fuller however says of
      Mr. Marshall that he died a presbyterian.—(Fuller’s Worthies, book
      2, p. 53; apud. Neal’s Hist. vol. iv. p. 134). And Baillie
      represents him to have been the best preacher in England.—(Letters
      and Journal, vol. i. p. 440.

   22 Pp. 360, 362.

   23 Miscellanea Scotica, vol. ii. p. 32.

   24 See p. 497 note.

   25 This was followed by a written controversy between the parties
      (Wodrow MSS. vol. ix. in 13th Ad.). The same person disputed
      publicly in the church of Cupar on two successive days, in 1652,
      with Mr. James Wood, professor of theology at St. Andrews.—Lamont’s
      Diary, p. 48.

   26 Wodrow’s Hist. of the Suf. of Ch. of Scot. vol. i. p. 165.  Glas.
      1829.

   27 See note, p. 512.

   28 Balfour’s Annals vol. iv. pp.  141-160. Brown’s Hist. of Glas. vol.
      i. p. 109. Peterkin’s Rec. of Kirk of Scot. p. 672.

   29 P. 489.

   30 Small quarto, pp. 51.

   31 Shields Faithful Contendings pp. 485-488. Faithful Witness Bearing
      Exemplified, preface, p. iv.

   32 Faithful Contendings, p. 66.

   33 Memoirs of the First Years of James Nisbet, one of the Scottish
      Covenanters, written by himself, Append. p. 287. Edin. 1827.

   34 Pp. 54-58.

   35 P. 486. See also Life of the Author, p. xliii. note.

   36 Verse 1193.

   37 Mr. Alexander Peterkin, the annotator of the Records of the Kirk of
      Scotland, before presenting his readers with a long extract from the
      “Whigs Supplication,” (ver 94-113) describing an armed body of
      Covenanters, gravely declares, it was “taken from a MS copy of a
      doggrel poem (by Cleland it is thought), which the editor presented
      some years ago to the Library of the Antiquarian Society of
      Edinburgh.” See Rec. of Kirk of Scot. p. 533.

   38 Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii. p. 360.

   39 Rec. of Kirk of Scot. pp. 627-633.

   40 Records of Presbyters of Glascow.

   41 P. xvii.

   42 Pp xxv, xxvi.

