As to churches, we cannot expect much, except that they will be tasteful and commodious audience
rooms, commensurate with the importance of their congregations. The religion of to-day appeals
to soul, and not to soul and sense. The world is older and better educated than in the cathedral
era, and the apostles and prophets are read, not from sculptured doors or painted windows,
but from the printed page and the winged word. Childhood, that cannot read, requires gaudily
painted primers for its instruction and amusement, but the world is a grown man now; the press
has superseded the cathedral, and if we imitate those structures in our churches, we should
bear in mind that it was their size that gave them grandeur, and that they would be caricatures
without it. We have heard our American church interiors spoken of somewhere as divisible into
two classes--the charlotte-russe style and the molasses-candy style. This is not true, we hope;
but there is too much truth in it, for it shows the influence of a too close imitation of European
palaces and churches, and the hard shamming that has to be done to make this imitation apparent.

If our rural architecture has been more successful, it is because our better class of country
houses are planned with reference to the landscapes they occupy. A rich level meadow with here
and there a waving elm requires a different style of house from a fir-clad bluff on a river
bank or a wild gorge in a mountain. No intelligent architect, we take it, would design a country
house without an intimate acquaintance with the surroundings, and yet the same man, likely
as not, would make you a sketch for the elevation of your house in town, without even looking
to see what it was to adjoin on either side. Now this method may be correct, but it seems to
us that, by first putting on paper the existing houses, say one or two, on each side of the
space to be built upon, the new front could be much better planned, and much of that unnecessary
discord avoided which destroys so many of our best streets. This is what is done in painting
and other arts, and why not in architecture? Particular situations require particular treatments.
A front that would appear well on a narrow street, would be inappropriate on a broad avenue
or a square. A corner, or the head of a street, are most responsible situations. A tall marble
front, placed in a modest row of freestone, is hideous, and yet the unrelieved monotony of
many such rows is quite as bad. A dome, unless at the top of a street or on some open space,
is next to worthless. Who would ever notice Boston State House or the Baltimore Cathedral,
but for their elevated and central positions?

We often find among the old masters elegant architectural paintings, street views, taken from
the picturesque cities they lived in. We should like to find some one bold enough to paint
a street view of Broadway or Washington street or Chestnut street.

It is a pity that our architects are unwilling to acknowledge the importance of the buttress.
Concerning this feature, it is not easy to say whether beauty or utility is most apparent.
It is the very idealization of strength, and hence its inherent elegance. Suppose Nôtre Dame
or Milan Cathedral stripped of their double tiers of flying buttresses. Would you not say that
their glory was gone--their beauty departed? And yet the old builders did not pile them up
against their naves for mere beauty's sake. By no means. But they knew the immense weight of
their vaulted roofs, and anticipated the outward thrust of the walls. That was the problem,
and most fairly was it met. They counteracted the outward pressure from within by an inward
pressure from without, and there was the buttress. But what if they had said, We are not going
to spoil our fine churches by sticking props all around them, and had resorted to concealed
bedplates and invisible rods of iron, would their structures have been better or nobler or
more enduring? Fortunately, they gave themselves no concern, as to how they would look--for
architecture was honest in those days--they simply built them, allowing decoration to come
in afterward in its proper order; and thereupon the buttress became the distinguishing feature
of Gothic art.

Perhaps this is the very reason why we so neglect it; but symptoms are already appearing which
lead us to hope that gothophobia is on the decline, and not the least of them is the outcropping
of something that would be a buttress if it dared to, but hides its real intention under a
classic mask, and passes off as a pilaster or a panel border. But it has a guilty look, and
the sooner it puts off its borrowed garments the better. Certainly the demand for it is immense.
So long as we are a commercial people, vast warehouses, piled from cellar to roof with heavy
merchandise, must abound in all our cities. And yet how utterly incompetent would many such
buildings be to stand alone! So long, too, as we are a manufacturing people, must we have huge
mills crowded full with heavy apparatus, vibrating machinery, and human lives. Have we forgotten
Lawrence? Let us not wait for another such holocaust ere we learn wisdom. We can do without
ornament, but we must have safety. A mere increase of dead weight is no remedy; there should
be a well-studied mechanical disposition of material. If buttresses are applied to warehouses
and factories with sole reference to their utility, elegance will grow upon them afterward
as naturally as leaves grow upon trees.

Material must depend much upon locality, but iron is undoubtedly to hold an important place
in our architecture. Already it is extensively used, but does not seem to command general favor.
The reason is that nearly everything that has been done with it so far is not iron architecture,
but stone architecture done in iron. We do not let it speak its own language; the truss, the
tie rod, and the girder are kept out of sight, while every possible display is made of consoles
and cornices and Corinthian columns and balustrades, and all sorts of foreign expressions.
No wonder that it is unable to give an account of itself with all these false witnesses. Stone
houses should be made of stone, and if made of wood or iron or plaster, they are nothing but
shams, unenduring and unsatisfactory.

Now architecture requires the least amount of material that is compatible with the greatest
amount of strength. The forms of different materials must be varied to suit their texture,
according as it is fibrous or crystalline, tough or brittle. Iron, of course, requires a peculiar
treatment. At the risk of being charged with pedantry, we say that there have never been but
two iron buildings, of any pretension, in this country--the Niagara Suspension Bridge and the
Crystal Palace at New York. The first still speaks for itself; and of the latter, no one who
saw it can forget what an exquisite structure it was, so light and airy and elegant, and yet
so strong. It was but a bird cage, though, compared with its enormous prototype at Sydenham.
That is unquestionably one of the wonders of the world; its internal coup d'oeil is without
a parallel. Fancy a broad level vista, a third of a mile long, flanked on either side by graceful
groves of ironwork, and covered with a continuous crystal arch, a hundred feet above your head;
line it with a profusion of tropical foliage and clambering vines, that grow as luxuriantly
as in their native woods, and interspersed with statuary and vases gleaming everywhere through
the rich masses of verdure, while here and there fountains of rare and exquisite design, rising
from broad marble basins, relieve without lessening the immense length--and you may have some
faint idea of this peerless structure. 'No material is used in it,' says Fergusson, 'which
is not the best for its purpose, no constructive expedient employed which was not absolutely
necessary, and it depends wholly for its effect on the arrangement of its parts and the display
of its construction.' It is in iron what Gothic is in stone.

Details, if fairly studied, would do much to nationalize our architecture. Why should we, in
designing a capital or cornice, still cling to the classic acanthus or honeysuckle ornament,
or even the English ivy, when we have such a fund of our own? The maize and the sugarcane,
the potato blossom and the cotton boll afford so many mines of treasure, that it is surprising
that they have not already been worked. In the architecture of the Central Park, however, a
decided impetus has been given in this direction. The details of the grand terrace at the end
of the Mall are as elaborate as those of a European cathedral, but they are all American--all
our own.

Another excellent feature of our city houses is that little strip of garden in front, just
within the sidewalk. For this, too, we think we have some claim of originality. At least it
is not European, for in Berlin, Vienna, etc., some of the most palatial quarters are without
so much as a sidewalk--the paving stones reaching from wall to wall. Such barrenness of arrangement
cannot be relieved by any architecture, nor was there ever a building so good that it could
not be improved by a setting of foliage. The power of mutual relief between art and nature
is wonderful. To this is owing much of the effect of the celebrated 'Place Napoleon,' the court
of the New Louvre at Paris. The contrast between the richly wrought façades of Caen stone and
the foliage in the centre, is most grateful to the eye. Even the grand quadrangle of the Tuileries
seems dismal after it, grand as are its ogre-roofed 'pavilions' and triumphal arch, for it
lacks the refreshing verdure. The eye wearies of the everlasting buff color.

Not to overstep the subject, we will say just one word about the street plans of our cities.
It is really shameful that these are not more studied. No one seems to think of adapting them
to the surface of the ground, but everything must needs be graded flat, and rectangular blocks
laid out thereon. Our Western cities, particularly, appear to crystallize in cubes--their monotony
is painful. An occasional introduction of the curved street, so common in Britain, would be
a delightful relief. The London 'Quadrant' is a superb example--the way in which the houses
come into view, one by one, as you follow the curve, is not to be surpassed. But the chief
secret of success in plotting a town is to seize upon the natural irregularities of the ground,
and make them part and parcel of the design. The beauty of Edinburgh--the 'Scottish Athens,'
as Dugald Stewart called it--is entirely owing to this. The new town is a 'wilderness of granite,
magnificently dull,' and the old has barely enough of the picturesque to save it from being
hideous. But there is a broad, natural ravine, dividing the two, which has been retained in
its original shape, and being tastefully arranged with shrubbery and terraced walks, forms
a fine park. Near one end of this the Castle Hill rises abruptly against the old town, while
at the other end the view is closed by Calton Hill, with its classic monuments, and Arthur's
Seat rising grandly beyond. Two or three bridges afford a level communication between the old
town and the new, and Prince's street, the thoroughfare of the latter, forms a fine terrace
along the northern edge of the ravine, passing midway the Scott monument, a superb spire of
Gothic. This latter is perhaps the only commendable feature per se in the city--for the details
of Edinburgh are notably poor, its pictorial effect arising solely from the very happy manner
in which they are grouped, amphitheatre-like, around the 'Gardens.'

Did such a vale lie in the track of one of our cities, we would consider it an unlucky blemish,
to be filled up at once to the general level. It would be named in the contract as such-and-such
'sunken lots,' and as the Castle Rock was digged down and dumped in, tax-payers would rejoice
over the saved cartage. Having thus killed off Nature, we would put up squares of houses upon
the dead level, while the local papers would comment upon the 'improvement of property.'

If we only had a Napoleon here, some think, his master mind might arrest this Vandalism, infuse
some system into our rag-bag cities, and make each a Paris. But have we not Public Opinion,
stronger than any despot? Let a little of this current, guided by taste, be turned into the
channels of art, and the results will soon be forthcoming. We seem to be hampered, as yet,
with a kind of feudal system of architecture; this will presently be done away with, for the
American character is eclectic, and naturally selects and combines the best in art, as in politics
and commerce. To combine English good sense without its heaviness, French vivacity without
its hollowness, and the exuberance of German fancy without its inertia--to combine and reflect
all these should be the mission of our architecture.

Neither is it too much to say that a genuine love for art may have its bearing on that part
of us which is immortal. Not that any of these things will exist after this life, but as children
are drilled by their teachers in many studies which have no practical bearing on their after
life, so may we consider ourselves as only at boarding school with Nature while in this present
temporary state; and if she has set us some lessons which do not appertain directly to our
more exalted future, we should remember that this is her method of discipline. But she has
done more; she has made the very tasks delightful. Are not such studies more beneficial and
satisfactory than the idleness and play which fill up so much of our lives?

No student can succeed, however, who tamely copies his neighbor's work. Let us hope, then,
that our art will soon drop its clumsy costume, and take to itself something natural and national;
that it will become, as it should, the type of our Western civilization--a civilization that
spreads itself, not by sword or sceptre or crozier, but by life and liberty and light. These
pamphlets were most extensively circulated throughout the United States, the United Kingdom,
and upon the continent of Europe, and several confederate writers have since referred to them;
but no attempt ever has been made, either by Mr. Davis himself, or by any of his agents or
friends, to refute any one of the facts or deductions contained in those pamphlets. Indeed,
the facts were founded upon authentic documents, official papers, and Mr. Davis's own two letters
over signature, plainly and unequivocally sustaining the repudiation of Mississippi. It is
true, in the case of the Union Bank bonds of Mississippi, that Mr. Davis justified their repudiation
on the ground that the bonds of the State were unconstitutional. But the utter fallacy of this
position was shown by two unanimous decisions of the highest judicial tribunal of the State
of Mississippi, before whom this very question was brought directly for adjudication, affirming
the constitutionality and validity of these bonds. When it is recollected, also, that this
was the Court designated by the Constitution and laws of Mississippi, as the tribunal to which
the ultimate decision of this question was referred, the wretched character of this pretext
must be at once perceived. Mr. Davis's two repudiating letters were published by him in the
spring and summer of 1849, yet one of these decisions by the highest judicial tribunal of Mississippi,
quoted by me, affirming the validity and constitutionality of these very bonds, was made in
1842, and again unanimously reaffirmed in 1853. But still, Mr. Davis adhered to the same position.
As to the Planters' Bank bonds, however, the repudiation of which was shown to have been justified
by Mr. Davis, there never was even a pretext that they were illegal or unconstitutional. Nor
is there any force in the suggestion, that these questions were decided before Mr. Davis came
into public life. They were continuous questions, constantly discussed in the press and before
legislative and judicial tribunals. And, we have seen, even as late as 1853, four years succeeding
Mr. Davis's repudiating letters, the second decision was made by the highest judicial tribunal
of Mississippi, reaffirming the validity and constitutionality of these bonds.

But I will now cite another instance of the advocacy of repudiation by Mr. Jefferson Davis,
still more flagitious than that of Mississippi. It was that of the State bonds of Arkansas,
the validity and constitutionality of which never has been disputed. Under this act, Richard
Rush, one of our most distinguished citizens, who had been minister to England and to France,
and had held the position of Secretary of State and of the Treasury, at Washington, was sent
by the Government to London, to obtain from the Court of Chancery the fund, amounting to over
$500,000. It is usual in the proceedings of the English Court of Chancery, when funds, under
circumstances like these, are bequeathed to trustees for scientific or charitable purposes,
not to part with the money to the trustee, except upon his filing in court absolute security
for the faithful fulfilment of the trust. In this case, however, the High Court of Chancery
in England, considering that to imply any laches or neglect of a trust so sacred, on the part
of the Government of the United States, was an idea not to be entertained, did, by their decree,
without any security, hand over all the money to the Government of the United States, to be
appropriated to the purpose designated by the donor, receiving only the pledge given by the
Congress of the United States, for the faithful appropriation of the money. Now, if there ever
was any obligation, that would be considered sacred by the whole civilized world, it was this,
and most faithfully has the Government of the United States executed this trust. Nay, it has
done much more; it has granted forty acres of ground, belonging to the Government, in the city
of Washington, gratuitously, for the erection of the buildings upon them, erected by the Government,
are worth largely more than the whole bequest. Not only has the Government done this, but,
upon the whole fund received from Mr. Smithson, it has always punctually paid an interest of
six per cent. in gold upon the whole sum, and pledged its faith for a similar perpetual payment.
It has also largely aided the institution by contributions to its museum, collections, and
library, and by the gratuitous services of public officers in its behalf. Such was the bill
passed by Congress in 1846, and which has always been most faithfully executed. So that the
institution is now established upon a permanent basis, and is fulfilling all the great and
noble purposes proposed by the illustrious donor. Now, in 1837, this fund was received by the
Government of the United States, and invested by the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Woodbury,
in the six per cent. bonds of the State of Arkansas at par, to the extent of over half a million
of dollars. During the same year Arkansas invested this money in a bank, entitled 'The Real
Estate Bank of Arkansas;' and of which the State was the great stockholder. In 1839, this Bank,
having loaned out these funds to the citizens of Arkansas, became absolutely and totally insolvent,
and has never been able to pay one cent on the dollar to any of its creditors. In 1839, the
State of Arkansas failed to pay the interest on its bonds, and from that day to this has never
paid one dollar either of interest or principal on any of these most sacred obligations.

On the 4th of March, 1845, I became Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, and having
taken the deepest interest in this Smithsonian fund, and in its faithful application to the
noble purpose of the donor, and inasmuch as one of my predecessors had invested these funds
in these bonds, and the Government had made itself directly responsible for the faithful execution
of this trust, I endeavored to reclaim, as far as possible, this money from the State of Arkansas,
and to induce Congress to appropriate its own moneys to redeem the pledge of the Government,
and fulfil this trust. My first official action on this subject was as follows: By act of Congress,
five per cent. of the net proceeds of the sales of the public lands of the United States in
Arkansas was payable to that State, for certain purposes designated in the act. There was,
also, an act of Congress in force, authorizing the Secretary of the Treasury, where there were
mutual debts and credits between the Government and any other person, to offset any debt due
by any creditor of the United States, against any debt, so far as it would go, due by the United
States to such creditor. I interpreted this act as authorizing me to withhold this five per
cent. fund from the State of Arkansas and appropriate it, as far as it would go, in payment
of the interest which had accumulated on the bonds of the State of Arkansas, in which my predecessor,
Mr. Woodbury, on behalf of the Government, had invested the Smithsonian Fund; thus saving a
small portion of the interest which had accrued on these bonds. For this act I was violently
denounced by the Senators and Representatives of Arkansas in Congress, as also by the Legislature
and Governor of the State, and strenuous efforts were made, unsuccessfully, first to induce
me to revoke my action, and, secondly, to have it overruled by the Government. But I adhered
to it, and declared openly, that if such a breach of trust were consummated, and my action
overruled in the premises, I would resign my seat in the cabinet. My official action, however,
was sustained by an almost unanimous public sentiment of Congress, and of the country. Indeed,
beyond the limits of the State of Arkansas, and the circle of the repudiators of Mississippi,
my course was sustained and approved.

Now, then, let us see what was the action of Mr. Jefferson Davis on the question of these Arkansas
bonds. On reference to the journals of the House of Representatives, of the Congress of the
United States, it appears that Mr. Jefferson Davis took his seat in that body, as one of the
members elect from the State of Mississippi, on the 8th of December, 1845. (P. 56.) When the
bill was pending for organizing the Smithsonian Institution, and making good for both principal
and interest, the sum bequeathed by Mr. Smithson that had been invested by the Government of
the United States in these Arkansas State bonds, Mr. Jefferson Davis, on the 29th April, 1846,
as appears by the official proceedings of the House, page 749, moved an amendment: 'To add
at the end of the section the following'--'Provided, however, That if the Governor of the State
of Arkansas shall make it appear to the satisfaction of the Attorney-General of the United
States, that he has used suitable means to obtain from the Real Estate Bank of the State of
Arkansas, payment of the debt due by said Bank to the State of Arkansas, but without success,
then, in that case, and until the arrears due by the said Real Estate Bank shall have been
received into the Treasury of the State of Arkansas, the said State shall be and is hereby
declared to be absolved from the promises on the face of her bonds by which the said State
heretofore pledged her faith for the due payment of the principal and interest of said bonds.'
Now, then, it will be remembered, that the legality and constitutionality of these Arkansas
State bonds never has been disputed. These bonds were issued by the State, under direct authority
of law, signed by the Governor, with the broad seal of the State attached, and recognized by
the Government of the United States, by the investment of this sacred fund in these obligations.
Nay, more, this fund thus received by the State from the Government on these bonds, had been
invested, under the law of the State of Arkansas, in a Real Estate Bank, created by that State,
and the money loaned to the citizens of the State. That State Bank, however, in 1839, became
utterly and notoriously insolvent, and never did or could pay one cent in the dollar on its
obligations. And, more especially, never did it pay, after 1839, one single cent of the principal
or interest upon these State obligations. Now, then, this institution, in 1846, being absolutely
and totally insolvent, its funds having been wasted and squandered without the possibility
of recovery, either in whole or in part, Mr. Davis offers this resolution to authorize the
State to repudiate its bonds, and that the Government should look only to this insolvent Bank
for the payment of the principal and interest on these bonds, amounting then to over $700,000.
It was not alleged by Mr. Davis, or by any other person, that these bonds were unconstitutional.
No such pretext was ever made even by the State of Arkansas. It was a most atrocious case of
open repudiation. And here, it matters not, so far as this question is concerned, what may
have been the obligation of the Government of the United States to make good these funds. That
is a totally distinct and independent question. The true and real issue in this case is this:
Was not the State of Arkansas bound to pay these bonds, both interest and principal, as it
fell due, in, which bonds, by the request and authority of the State, the Government of the
United States had invested this Smithsonian fund? This obligation of the State of Arkansas,
both moral and legal, is undisputed and indisputable; and yet Mr. Davis moved the resolution
before quoted, absolving the State from the payment of the principal and interest of these
bonds, except so far as the assets of her own Bank, then notoriously bankrupt, should avail
to make good these obligations. That is, the Congress of the United States, by solemn act,
was to authorize the State of Arkansas to repudiate her solemn obligations. Recollect, this
was not a case of Mississippi bonds, of which State Mr. Davis was then a Representative in
Congress, but it was the case of Arkansas, another State, having on the floor of Congress its
own Senators and Representatives. But it is a very remarkable fact, that Mississippi, for many
years, had then repudiated her own bonds, that Mr. Davis justified and sustained that repudiation,
and that now he appears on behalf of Arkansas to induce Congress, by solemn act, to authorize
that State to repudiate her obligations also. Thus was it that Mr. Davis travelled out of his
own State into another, to make the Government of the United States a party to the repudiation
of her bonds by the State of Arkansas. Let me not be misunderstood. I do not mean to say, that
Mr. Davis proposed or intended that the Government of the United States should repudiate its
faith, plighted to the British Court of Chancery, to make good this fund. That is not the question.
It is entirely collateral. Why thus justify the repudiation of her bonds? Can any other reason
be assigned than this, that Mr. Jefferson Davis was looking to the repudiated bonds of Mississippi,
and was endeavoring to establish a precedent, by solemn act of the Congress, by which, if adopted
as a principle, Mississippi, and every other defaulting State, could be justified in the repudiation
of their bonds also. It is to the credit of the Congress of the United States, that Mr. Davis's
resolution was rejected without a division, and without a count. When it is recollected, that
at this very time, I, as Secretary of the Treasury, was appropriating the five per cent. found
payable by the Government to the State of Arkansas toward the liquidation of these bonds against
the protest of that State, the further meaning of these movements will be clearly perceived.
Had this resolution of Mr. Davis passed the two Houses of Congress, absolving the State of
Arkansas from the payment of these bonds, I could, of course, as Secretary of the Treasury,
no longer have withheld that fund from the State, and appropriated it, so far as it went, toward
the liquidation of the interest accrued and accruing on these bonds. It appears, then, by conclusive
and official evidence, that Mr. Jefferson Davis's repudiation of State obligations, was not
confined to his own State, nor even to the State of Arkansas; but that he desired to make the
Government of the United States, by solemn act of Congress, a party directly sanctioning such
atrocious violations of State faith and State obligations.

                                                      R. J. WALKER.

APHORISMS.

NO. III.

TWO RULES.-To get safely and comfortably through the world, one must observe two rules: first,
keep your eyes open; second, keep them shut.

Not to see the actual realities of our daily existence, is the part of a fool.

Not to notice the thousand and one petty faults of others, and the ever-recurring petty annoyances
of our circumstances, is the part of a wise man.

Even injuries intentionally done to us, are often best disposed of by resolutely ignoring them.

So of evils that cannot be remedied--the less we know of them the better. Not to see an ill
sight, is often just as good as to remove it from existence.

We need only to add: This seeing and not seeing, depends very much upon
the will. The wolf that wills it can easily see the lamb disturbing the
water that he drinks, even while the lamb is below him on the bank of
the stream; and the lamb, by a stern resolve, can refuse to see the
injustice which it has no power to remedy. The will of man is little
less than omnipotent in the wide sphere of its appropriate power; and
that sphere is much wider than feeble-minded people may suppose. In 2 volumes. New York: D. Appleton & Co., 443 & 445
     Broadway.

A work of two large octavo volumes, containing 1,020 pages, with two portraits of Mr. Parker,
and some vignettes on wood. The author is John Weiss, and the biography is exceedingly well
written, a great deal of it being given directly from Mr. Parker's own letters and journals.
He was born in Massachusetts in 1810, and died in Italy before he had completed his fiftieth
year. He was brought up on his father's farm, taught school while in his teens to provide money
for further progress, prepared himself for the university, taught a higher school during his
college course, studied the classics, acquired German, French, and Spanish, became a divinity
student in Cambridge, added Danish, Swedish, Arabic and Syriac, Anglo-Saxon and Modern Greek,
was ordained a Unitarian minister in 1837, and settled at West Roxbury. His labors were great:
he preached, lectured, translated, edited, and wrote. His health sank under his arduous mental
toil. He went abroad to regain it, and died in Florence in 1860. Whatever we may think of his
creed, as a preacher he was able and earnest. He was a man of varied gifts, of wide and detailed
culture. He was opposed to slavery, and stood in bold antagonism to the Fugitive Slave Law.
He was blamed, perhaps maligned, during his lifetime, but posterity will acknowledge him as
a man of large brain and generous heart. His letters are exceedingly interesting, touching
upon almost every subject now under discussion.

  'Would you be good, and fill each human duty?
  One art's enough for that--the finest art--
  See but the good in every human heart.'

     WAS HE SUCCESSFUL? A Novel. By RICHARD B.
     KIMBALL, Author of 'St. Leger,' 'Undercurrents,' 'Romance of
     Student Life,' etc. New York; Carleton, publisher, 413 Broadway.
     Leipsic: Tauchnitz. 1864.

The readers of THE CONTINENTAL have been favored with the first perusal of this monitory novel.
It is an accurate delineation of men and manners found too frequently in our midst, and the
moral should be deeply graven on every heart. We feel the more at liberty to recommend this
work, as it was commenced in our columns before the present corps of editors had entered upon
their labors, and we cordially wish every species of success to Mr. Kimball.

     MUSICAL SKETCHES. By ELIZA POLKO. Translated from
     the sixth German edition, by FANNY FULLER. Philadelphia:
     Frederick Leypoldt. New York: F. W. Christern.

We think this book will become a favorite with our people. It contains sketches, legends, and
traditions of many of the great musicians. Bach, Gluck, Mozart, Mendelssohn, Pergolesi, Schubert,
Scarlatti, Weber, Paganini, Gretry, Catalani, Malibran, Handel, Anderle, Haydn, Boieldieu,
Cimarosa, Beethoven, Lully, Berger, etc., float pleasantly through its fanciful pages. Romance
and reality mingle genially together, the reality half persuading us that the romance is true.
It is appreciative and tender in the original, and the translation is well executed. The vignette
of the music-making cherubs is really beautiful.

Few young writers have attained so sudden a popularity as Marion Harland. We believe it well
deserved. Her plots are interesting, her characters well drawn, her style natural, her morals
unexceptionable. Of the two tales composing the present volume, we prefer 'Colonel Floyd's
Wards.' The interest is well sustained, and Virginian society and manners truthfully depicted.

Has Count Gurowski's course toward his own unfortunate country, heroic
Poland, been sufficiently loyal and faithful to induce us to put much
confidence in his portraitures of the men and events of the land of his
adoption? New York: Carleton, publisher, 413
     Broadway.

The writings of the Rev. Dr. Cumming are too well known to the public to
need any characterization at our hands. His style is clear and simple,
and we believe it is his desire to awaken and win souls. Although
frequently miscomprehending the dogmas of the Mother Church, he is
neither narrow nor bigoted in his religious views. In the volume under
consideration, he takes passages found principally in Isaiah and
Revelations as texts to describe the Millennium which he believes at
hand. The
plot is well conceived and sustained, and the interest never flags from
the first page to the last. There is no dull reading in the book, no
interminable preludes or introductions. We are presented in the very
first chapter to the hero, the young schoolmaster, about to be tarred
and feathered by a brutal mob. And a real hero he proves himself in his
gentleness, conscientiousness, and manly moral and physical courage.
Carl, the German boy, is an inimitable picture of young German life and
character. Toby, the house negro, is, in his mingled stupidity, cunning,
and faithfulness, drawn to the life. Nor are the negroes of the cave
less excellent. Events hurry forward, different characters are strangely
grouped, new elements and capacities constantly developed, while truth
to the original conception is constantly adhered to. Graphic
descriptions and picturesque situations abound. If scenes of violence
occur, it is because they are true to the history of the hour. Constructed and drawn under the
     direction of A. GUYOT, by ERNEST SANDOZ. New
     York: Published by Charles Scribner, 124 Grand street.

This is a physical map of the United States, giving the altitudes (within certain limits) of
the surface of the land, the height of the principal mountains, the courses of the ranges and
also of the rivers, together with many other interesting particulars. The principal political
divisions and the chief towns are also indicated. The names of that profound and earnest savant,
Prof. A. Guyot, and of his talented nephew, E. Sandoz, are a sufficient guarantee of the accuracy
and excellence of this useful work.

     A BUDGET OF FUN FOR LITTLE FOLKS. By AUNT MAGGIE.
     Boston: Loring, publisher, 319 Washington street.

     JEAN BELIN; or, The Adventures of a Little French Boy. By
     ALFRED DE BREHAT. Translated from the French. Boston:
     Loring, publisher, 319 Washington street. For sale by O. S. Felt,
     36 Walker street, New York.

Two very pleasant books for children. The first contains the adventures of a knitting society,
interspersed with sundry novel fairy tales, and the second is intended to supply the need felt
by all the little ones when 'Robinson Crusoe' and the 'Swiss Family Robinson' have been exhausted.
The tale is lively and well told, and the characters natural and ably sustained. We notice
in both works an occasional inaccuracy of expression. Such slight blemishes do not materially
impair the excellence of these sprightly volumes, but a little more attention would have sufficed
to render them entirely free from error. The examples of language placed before youth cannot
be too carefully revised. With this minute exception, we heartily recommend the 'Budget of
Fun' and 'Jean Belin,' especially the latter, to all young people.

     CARROT-POMADE, with twenty-six Illustrations by
     AUGUSTUS HOPPIN. 'Hair ten carats fine.' New York: James
     G. Gregory, publisher, 46 Walker street.

A ludicrous satire, and well deserved, on the general style of advertisements. Hoppin is too
well known to need laudation. His illustrations are irresistibly comic. What could be happier
than the cupids of the brush and comb on the frontispiece? The poor 'krittur which furnished
the grease' is well conceived and executed.

     POEMS. By HENRY PETERSON. Philadelphia: J. B.
     Lippincott.

A volume of graceful verses. Published Quarterly. New York: D. Appleton & Co., 443 &
     445 Broadway. One dollar per annum. Price, 25 cents.

This volume has been prepared with the sanction of Mr. Blair, Postmaster General, and is an
authorized medium of information between the Post Office Department and the public. It meets
a want very generally felt, and will be welcomed by the community at large. Its table of contents
is a full one; we have space but for a few items: 'Officers, and recent Orders of the Department;
Rates of Postage to Foreign Countries; Rates of Domestic Postage; Date of Sailing of Foreign
Steamers; Establishment of Post Offices; Mail Contracts; Penalties in certain cases; Suggestions
to the Public; Time occupied in the transmission of Letters; Local Post Office Regulations;
List of Post Offices in the United States, etc. We regard the condensation of important and
indeed almost necessary information as of great value to our people.

     LEGENDS OF THE BIRDS. By CHARLES GODFREY LELAND.
     Illustrated by F. Moras. Philadelphia: Frederick Leypoldt,
     publisher. New York: for sale by F. W. Christern, 763 Broadway.

An exquisite volume, containing illuminated pictures of the Birds of the Legends. Very beautiful
are the legends, tenderly and simply told in the golden words of a poet. They are calculated
to teach us humanity toward the winged creatures of the air, so often the victims of our cruel
sports. We have The Swallow, The Eagle, The Robin, The Cock, The Swan, The Falcon, The Wood
Dove, The Humming Bird, The Scarlet Tannager, The Peacock, and The Owl, each bird occupying
his own illuminated page; each with his own simple and touching legend. Mr. Leland's little
poems will speak to many a heart, and many a mother will read them aloud to the wild boys begging
for guns to devastate our forests, to inspire them with mercy for these flying flowers, these
musicians of the air. Paper, print, type, arabesques, and designs, are excellent. We heartily
congratulate Mr. Leypoldt on the beauty of the publication. 1864.

The American people are waking up to the importance of physical culture, struggling to develop
muscle, to strengthen weak nerves, and to build up national bodily vigor. The purpose of the
volume before us is to solve this problem. The author "has aimed to make it a complete gymnastic
drill book, with words of command and classes of movements systematically arranged, embracing
all necessary exercises for the lungs, the voice, the organs of speech, the joints, and the
muscles."

Part 1st, under the head of Vocal Gymnastics, treats of Respiration, Phonetics, and Elocution;
concise and clear principles and rules are given, accompanied by examples and exercises sufficiently
numerous to enable the student to bring them completely within his comprehension and under
his control. We regard this part of the work before us as exceedingly important. To read aloud
well is one of the rarest of accomplishments, though one of the most desirable, and the training
of the voice is absolutely necessary to attain this end. When properly pursued, such exercises
are exceedingly invigorating.

Part 2d, under the head of Calisthenics, exhibits a varied course of exercises without the
aid of apparatus. Pupils are taught to beat time, and use is thus made of the magic power of
rhythmical movement. Nineteen pieces of piano music are given, which are well chosen, and appropriately
introduced.

Part 3d, under the head of Gymnastics, presents a wider collection of exercises for wands,
dumb bells, Indian clubs, and hand rings, than any of the books we have yet seen. All the exercises
are arranged in accordance with well-known principles of Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.
'In presenting a new system of Calisthenics and Gymnastics, a series of illustrations from
original designs is indispensable.' These are remarkably well drawn and executed. Accent, quantity,
with Iambic, Trochaic, Anapestic, and Dactylic Rhythms, are practically given in the work,
which, should the student have poetic talent, would be of great use to him in making his own
verses, while to the reader of poetry a knowledge of them is indispensable.

We heartily commend this book to the notice of our readers--to all who prize physical culture,
health, and symmetrical education. We hope it may find its way into our schools and families.

Print, paper, and the mechanical execution of this valuable Hand Book are really excellent.

     LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS. By T. S. ARTHUR, Author
     of 'Ten Nights in a Bar Room,' 'Steps toward Heaven,' 'Golden
     Grain,' etc. New York: Carleton, publisher, 413 Broadway.

The books of T. S. Arthur have had a very wide circulation both in this country and in England.
This volume is composed of thirty-three short tales, well calculated to touch and soothe the
popular heart. They are tender, moral, and simple.

       *       *       *       *       *

JANUARY PERIODICALS RECEIVED.

     THE UNIVERSALIST QUARTERLY. Boston: Published by T.
     Tompkins & Co. New York: H. Lyon, 119 Nassau street.

CONTENTS: The Logic and the End of the Rebellion. The Eastern Church and Council of Nice. Salvation
in Christ not Limited to this Life. Contributions of Science to Religion. History of the Doctrine
of a Future Life. Atheism and its Exponents. Formula of Baptism. The Universalists as a Christian
Sect. General Review. Recent Publications. American and English Quarterlies.

     THE NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW, January 1st, 1864. Editors:
     Prof. James Russell Lowell and Charles Eliot Norton, Esqs. Boston:
     Crosby & Nichols, 117 Washington street. New York: H. Dexter,
     Hamilton & Co., Sinclair Tousey, and D. G. Francis.

CONTENTS: Ticknor's Life of Prescott. The Bible and Slavery. The Ambulance System. The Bibliotheca
Sacra. Immorality in Politics. The Early Life of Governor Winthrop. The Sanitary Commission.
Renan's Life of Jesus. The President's Policy. Critical Notices.

     THE CHRISTIAN EXAMINER.--Contents: Weiss's Life of
     Theodore Parker. Uhland. The Patience of Hope. Arthur Schopenhauer.
     The System and Order of Christ's Ministry. Ticknor's Life of
     Prescott. Our Ambulance System. The Two Messages. Review of Current
     Literature. New Publications Received. Boston: By the Proprietors,
     at Walker, Wise & Co.'s, 245 Washington street.

EDITOR'S TABLE.

ARTISTS' RECEPTION.

The evening of February 4th, 1864, will long be remembered as the occasion of one of the most
delightful receptions ever given in the Tenth-street Studio Building. The Committee deserve
great praise for the successful manner in which they filled without crowding the pleasant exhibition-room
and the many interesting studios. Their task was certainly not an easy one, and merits imitation
by all managers of social entertainments.

Want of space must for the present prevent any description of the fine works exhibited; suffice
it to say that the Committee--Whittredge, McEntee, Thompson, as well as Gifford, Eastman Johnson,
Bierstadt, Beard, the Weirs, Hazeltine, William Hart, Dana, Leutze, Gignoux, Shattuck, Brown,
Suydam, etc., were all worthily represented. New York has reason to be proud of her artists.

Amusing incidents were not wanting. As we stood before Beard's 'Watchers' (an impressive representation
of a company of crows watching the last struggles of a dying deer), we heard a lady ask her
attendant the meaning of the picture and of its name. The reply was, 'Why--do you not see?
Those birds are owls, and they are asleep, and the deer is asleep too, and so they are all
watchers!' 'Ah!' returned the lady, as if this lucid explanation had flooded the subject with
light. We were accompanied by a very bright young girl, who, desirous of visiting the studio
of Mr. Church, and disappointed at learning that it had not been opened to the guests of the
building, exclaimed, 'Heart of the Andes, indeed! Where is his own?' No lover of the true and
the beautiful could have resisted the pleading of those earnest blue eyes. We also overheard
that 'the Tenth-street boys hold their heads mighty high!' Long may they continue to do so,
and long may success of every kind crown their efforts, whether as artists or as conscientious,
patriotic men!

GOUNOD'S 'FAUST.'

This opera has attracted large audiences wherever it has been represented, and has elicited
much attention and criticism from the musical public. Dwight's Journal of Music, Boston, January
23d, contains the best review of its merits and defects which we have thus far chanced to meet.
Mr. Dwight gives M. Gounod ample credit for the good judgment, common sense, science, taste,
poetic feeling, rich and highly dramatic orchestration, ingenious musical characterization
of individuals and situations, and the many passages of beautiful music found in this elaborate
work, but denies to him the highest inspiration, the spontaneity of genius, and the attainment
of any very lofty ideal in the production of continuous, elevated, and soul-entrancing melodies.
We think this a pretty fair statement of the facts in the case. Mr. Dwight, however, says:
'Not even Mozart in 'Don Juan' had so great a subject;' and in this connection we feel compelled
to offer a few remarks. We think every great composer owes it to his own God-gift, and to the
human beings whom he is to influence, not to select intrinsically repulsive subjects, and such
have we found both 'Don Juan' and 'Faust.' Now we are not morbidly fastidious, and we well
know the freedom that must be accorded to art, that it may have ample scope and range in the
delineation of human feeling and romantic situation; but when we see a representation of 'Don
Juan,' we instinctively strive to ignore the plot, with its odious characters (the sensual
Don, the coarse-minded servant, the unwomanly, man-seeking Elvira, the vengeful Anna, the insignificant
Ottavio, the light-headed and shallow-hearted Zerlina), and live only in the beautiful music
which the prodigality of genius has wasted upon so poor a theme. Not even that libretto could
degrade the pure, serious, and essentially innocent character of Mozart's conceptions; but,
in turn, his refined musical conception has been unable to lift the subject from the mire of
Da Ponte's delineation. We know that page after page has been written to unfold the mystic
meanings and profound philosophy contained in the story, but our observation has been, that
the effect of the whole upon pure minds is simply--disgust. The musical grandeur of the finale
rarely saves its becoming ludicrous in the representation, and the good joke of a life of unblushing
immorality is in no way lessened by the appearance of demons, in whose existence half the world
(at least of of opera goers) has ceased to believe.

The 'Faust' is nearly, if not quite, as bad. The undisguised sensuality of Faust, both in Goethe's
drama and in the operatic rendering, is such that it nearly destroys our sympathy with Margaret,
and scenes that should be pathetic are either merely repulsive, or excite our indignation to
such a degree that we 'turn all our tears to sparks of fire.'

Nothing but loathing can attend the open, deliberate, and utterly gross destruction of virtue
as planned and executed by that miserable libertine. Mephistopheles himself is scarcely more
corrupt, and the representation of these two great poisonous spiders, weaving their meshes
round their unfortunate and but too easy prey, can never in any sense impress us as lofty specimens
of high art.

How different is the plot of 'Fidelio,' where one can yield oneself to the beauty of the music
and the pathos of the story without a single jarring sensation!

Let the masters then beware! Music is essentially pure, and should never by great minds be
wedded to coarse ideas. The subject must have an influence upon the immortality of the work.
The really noble and truly art-loving men and women of all countries will, as they advance
in mental cultivation and comprehension of the higher aims of art, banish such gross delineations
and festering moral sores from the stage, and fine musical works thus sullied will continue
to live solely as represented by such instrument or instruments as may best be calculated to
express their real value and meaning.

We go to the opera for relaxation, improvement, and enjoyment, and none of these can be found
in the spectacle of noble means perverted to corrupt ends. May the day soon come when such
important channels of public amusement and instruction may be guided by a refined taste and
correct views of the intimate connection between the Beautiful and the Absolute Good!

Ballads of the War.

  THE DEATH OF COLONEL SHAW.

  By ISABELLA McFARLANE.

  Loud rang the voice of the chieftain,
     As the Fifty-fourth rushed on:
  'Charge on the guns of Wagner,
     Charge--and the fort is won!'

  On--like a wave of the ocean,
     Dashing against a rock!--
  Back--ah! back--all broken,
     Like a wave from the fruitless shock.

  Thus from the guns of Wagner
     The Fifty-fourth surged back:
  But the voice of their brave young chieftain
     Checked not their backward track

  For there, on the sands by Wagner,
     The gallant Shaw lay low,
  'Midst a heap of his brave black soldiers,
     Left in the hands of the foe.

  Not a flag was lowered in his honor,
     Not a gun its deep voice gave,
  When, on the sands by Wagner,
     Shaw was laid in the grave.

  Not a friend stood over his coffin,
     Shedding tears on his gory breast;
  But instead, was curse and insult,
     Cruel laughter, ribald jest.

  Wide and deep was the trench they hollowed,
     Where the gallant Shaw was laid,
  With forty negro soldiers
     Piled over his noble head.

  Yes, forty negro soldiers,
     Whose hearts were hearts of steel,
  Who had fought in the cause of freedom,
     Who had died for their country's weal.

  Was it then so great dishonor
     For that chief so young and brave--
  Who had led them on to the battle--
     To be with them in the grave?

  Nay--most just was the mandate
     That in death they should not part,
  For he loved his poor black brothers,
     With a true and steadfast heart. Philadelphia: George W. Childs, 628 and
630 Chestnut street. 1863

[2] If any one is disposed to doubt that the doctrine that fossil forms are direct creations,
and were never living animals at all, is held by any respectable person, we refer them to a
book entitled 'Cosmogony, or the Mysteries of Creation,' by Thomas A. Davies, and published
by Rudd & Carleton, of New York, of no longer ago than 1857.

[3] Principles of Geology, 9th ed., p. 740. Con.

[5] In Latin, Sublaqueum, or Sublacum, in the States of the Church, over thirty English miles
(Butler says 'near forty,' Montalombert, 'fifty miles') east of Rome, on the Teverone. Butler
describes the place as 'a barren, hideous chain of rocks, with a river and lake in the valley.'

[6] Monasterium Cassinense. It was destroyed, indeed, by the Lombards, as early as 583, as
Benedict is said to have predicted it would be, but was rebuilt in 731, consecrated in 748,
again destroyed by the Saracens in 857, rebuilt about 950, and more completely, after many
other calamities, in 1649, consecrated for the third time by Benedict XIII in 1727, enriched
and increased under the patronage of the emperors and popes, in modern times despoiled of ts
enormous income (which at the end of the sixteenth century was reckoned at 500,000 ducats),
and has stood through all vicissitudes to this day. In the times of its splendor, when the
abbot was first baron of the kingdom of Naples, and commanded over four hundred towns and villages,
it numbered several hundred monks but in 1843 only twenty. It has a considerable library. Montalembert
(Monks of the West, ii. 19) calls Monte Cassino 'the most powerful and celebrated monastery
in the Catholic universe; celebrated especially because there Benedict wrote his rule and formed
the type which was to serve as a model to innumerable communities submitted to that sovereign
code.' He also quotes the poetic description from Dante's Paradiso. Dom Luigi Tosti published
at Naples, in 1842, a full history of this convent, in three volumes.

[7] Gregor. Dial. ii. 37.

[8] Butler, in his Lives of Saints, compares Benedict even with Moses and Elijah. 15.

[9] 'Scienter nesciens, et sapienter indoctus.'

[10] The Catholic Church has recognized three other rules besides that of St. Benedict, viz.:
1. The rule of St. Francis of Assisi and his mendicant order, in the thirteenth century.

[11] Pope Gregory believed the rule of St. Benedict even to be directly inspired, and Bossuet
(Panégyrie de Saint Benoît), in evident exaggeration, calls it 'an epitome of Christianity,
a learned and mysterious abridgement of all doctrines of the gospel, all the institutions of
the holy fathers, and all the counsels of perfection.' Montalembert speaks in a similar strain
of French declamatory eloquence.

[12] Cap. 5: 'Primus humilitatis gradus est obedientia sine mora. Hæc convenit iis, qui nihil
sibi Christo carius aliquid existimant: propter servitium sanctum, quod professi sunt, seu
propter metum gehennæ, vel gloriam vitæ æternæ, mox ut aliquid imperatum a majore fuerit, ac
si divinitus imperetur, moram pati nesciunt in faciendo.'

[13] Cap. 48: 'Otiositas inimica est animæ; et ideo certis temporibus occupari debent fratres
in labore manuum, certis iterum horis in lectione divina.' vina.'

[14] The horæ canonicæ are the Nocturnæ vigiliæ, Matutinæ, Prima, Tertia, Sexta, Nona, Vespera,
and Completorium, and are taken (c. 16) from a literal interpretation of Ps. cxix. 164: 'Seven
times a day do I praise thee,' and v. 62: 'At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee.'
The Psalter was the liturgy and hymn book of the convent. It was so divided among the seven
services of the day, that the whole Psalter should be chanted once a week.

[15] Cap. 59: 'Si quis forte de nobilibus offert filium suum Deo in monasterio, si ipse puer
minori ætate est, parentes ejus faciant petitionem,' etc.

[16] Cap. 40: 'Carnium quadrupedum ab omnibus abstinetur comestio, præter omnino debiles et
ægrotos.' Even birds are excluded, which were at that time only delicacies for princes and
nobles, as Mabillon shows from the contemporary testimony of Gregory of Tours.

[17] Cap. 66: 'Monasterium, si possit fieri, ita debet construi, ut omnia necessaria, id est
aqua, molendinum, hortus, pistrinum, vel artes diversæ intra monasterium exerceantur, ut non
sit necessitas monachis vagandi foras, quia omnino non expedit animabus eorum.'

[18] This Maurus, the founder of the abbacy of Glanfeuil (St. Maur sur Loire), is the patron
saint of a branch of the Benedictines, the celebrated Maurians in France (dating from 1618),
who so highly distinguished themselves in the seventeenth and early part of the eighteenth
centuries, by their thorough archæological and historical researches, and their superior editions
of the Fathers. The most eminent of the Maurians are D. (Dom, equivalent to Domnus, Sir) Menard,
d'Achery, Godin, Mabillon, le Nourry, Martianay, Ruinart, Martene, Montfaucon, Massuet, Garnier,
and de la Rue, and in our time Dom Pitra, editor of a valuable collection of patristic fragments,
at the cloister of Solesme.

[19] He was the last of the Roman consuls--an office which Justinian abolished--and was successively
the minister of Odoacer, Theodoric, and Athalaric, who made him prefect of the pretorium.

[20] Or Vivaria, so called from the numerous vivaria, or fish ponds, in that region

[21] Comp. Mabillon, Ann. Bened. 1. v. c. 24, 27; F. de Ste.-Marthe, Vie de Cassiodore, 1684.

[22] I take this anecdote on Mr. Underhill's authority.

[23] As in the Hotel du Louvre in Paris.

[24] The great Bible-printing establishment at Oxford encloses a spacious courtyard, which
is laid out as a garden. The foliage is agreeably disposed, and there are shrubbery walks,
flowers, vases, and parterres, all arranged in the best taste. Consider what a healthful influence
this must have on the character of the workman.

[25] 'Buried with his niggers.' Such was the answer of the rebel commander at Charleston to
General Gillmore's demand for the body of Colonel Shaw, who commanded the 54th Massachusetts,
one of the first negro regiments organized, and was killed in an unsuccessful attempt to carry
Fort Wagner by assault.