His voice fairly thundered as he sped along the struggling line of wagons and teams.

"Bring on those wagons!  Corral!  Don't lose your senses, men!  We're all right.  But corral,
corral!"

The two fugitives arrived, breathless, their animals sweat-covered and blown.  Alas, neither
of them was Samuel Lamme, and Samuel Lamme had not appeared.

"We've lost Lamme!" they shouted.  "The Injuns got him, first fire."

"Fetch up that cannon.  Unlimber," Captain Bent was shouting.

It was a small brass cannon, but had been so wrapped to protect it from the sand that the men
could scarcely untie the knots.  Away galloped Captain Bent, on his split-ear mule, to encourage
the skirmishers' line.  He had to be everywhere at once.

Out yonder the rifles and shot-guns were volleying, as the skirmishers, slowly retreating,
held the Indians off.  The leading wagons had turned broadside to the trail; one by one, or
two by two, the other wagons lurched on--they also turning right and left, their teams inside,
and their fore wheels almost touching the rear wheels of the wagons already halted.  In this
way a corral was being formed, in shape of an oval, with an opening at the end, for the caballada
to enter.

That was desperate work.  Around and around scurried the Indians, lying low upon their ponies'
backs or hanging to the farther side, whooping, shaking their blankets, and launching their
arrows and balls.  They were Kiowas and Comanches both; and had the caravan just about where
they wanted it.

The corral was completed; the caballada jostled in; the teamsters crawled here and there, to
poke their guns through the wheels; in rode the skirmishers, Captain Bent last.  The circling
Indians pressed closer; and the cannon piece was yet useless, although the men yanked and slashed.

But the rifles and muskets kept the enemy off.  When finally the cannon was unlimbered, aimed,
and fired, it only broke the circle.  The Indians scattered; and yelling angrily settled down
to a siege.

The sun of mid-afternoon was scorching.  The wagons on the west end of the corral furnished
a little shade, but even in the shade the sand burned the skin.  The men, lying flat, shifted
wearily.  The animals dropped their heads, and panted.  The bare yellow hills around quivered.
All the little basin was like a furnace.  There was not a drop of water except in the casks,
and this water would not last long--the air would suck up what men and beasts did not soon
drink. The Indians need only wait.

What a fix!  The attack could not have been made in a worse place, were it not for the soldiers.

Captain Bent called a council.  The Major Riley escort, scarce ten miles back, was the main
hope.  Some way must be found to summon them.

"But we're in Mexico.  It's ag'in the law of nations for soldiers from one country to march
in time o' peace into another country."

"Never mind.  They're Americans and they'll not stop to figure on boundary lines," Captain
Bent answered.  "They'll come, I'll wager, even if it brings on war with a dozen nations. 
Who'll take the back trail?  There ought to be enough to make a running fight."

Nine men volunteered.  They had a slim chance, but some of them might break loose.  They rode
away, in the full open.  The Indians could not fail to see them.

Rifle-pits had been dug for the out-posts.  In the pits and in the corral the merchants, teamsters,
and hunters sweltered, while they anxiously gazed.  Scattered in squads among the dips and
hollows, the Indians uttered never a sound.  Then they burst into a yell.  They saw the nine
horsemen bolting for the north.

Aha!  Several of the Indians had swooped in chase.  No!  They turned again.  What did they
fear?  The cannon?  Or a trap?  Or didn't they care?  They preferred waiting for bigger booty.
Evidently they did not know about the soldiers at the river.  The nine riders had got away!
Now if the Indians only would hold off for a few hours, the caravan was saved.  There seemed
to be more than a thousand of the Kiowas and Comanches--in one grand charge they could ride
right over the corral; but they knew that they would lose many a warrior, and they planned
to get the victory more easily.

The Major Riley command were loafing in their tents and in the shade of the few cottonwoods,
until the sun should set.  Everything was peaceful--and plaguey hot.  Then a sentry's musket
gave the alarm signal; he shouted and pointed; the sergeant of the guard ran; from the tents
officers and soldiers boiled out, or sprang to their feet, in the shade; bathers in the river
plashed for their clothes; and the men on herd commenced to gather their oxen, mules and saddle
animals.

A squad of horsemen were galloping in from the south; as they approached they called and waved,
and pointed backward.  They were a part of the traders who had left the camp only a few hours
before. Something had happened, and that could be only Indians.  Major Riley did not delay to ask.

"Sound the general," he bade, buckling on his saber at the door of his tent; and the chief
bugler sent the notes rollicking through the waves of heat.

Officers ran hither-thither; the men ran; the teamsters ran; the herd swung in, for the parked
wagons.  The "general" was the first signal to form ranks.

The leading horsemen of the nine couriers galloped into the water and surged across.  By the
time the last had arrived, the second signal, the "assembly," had been sounded; the tents were
being struck, baggage tied, and the oxen driven to their yokes.  The companies were about to form.

All these preparations took some time.  Two hundred men cannot break camp in an instant and
march with bag and baggage into Indian country. And when "To the color," as the final call
was known, had been sounded, the sun was set, and the first purple was flowing into the hollows
of the vast, lonely land.

The major was going, with his whole force.  The couriers had reported one thousand Indians,
at the least; the sand-hills were full of them; all the Kiowa and Comanche nations were rallied
to close the trail.  It would not do to leave an unprotected camp, and no men were to be spared.

In the twilight they forded the shallow Arkansas--the army oxen straining in their yokes, a
squad of soldiers pushing each wagon.  They entered Mexico; all were liable to arrest, but
who cared?

The couriers guided into the sand-hills.  The major and his staff followed on their mules.
The column of footmen and wagons toiled after.

They could hear no sounds of fighting, before.  The twilight deepened. They must move cautiously.
The Indians had seen the couriers ride out, they might be laying an ambush.  A file of skirmishers
fringed either flank, well out; scouts examined the country, ahead.  Every ear was pricked,
every eye searched right and left.

The silence was very mysterious.  The couriers had reported that the Indians' circle was wide,
to avoid the cannon.  When the stars read midnight, the major thought that he surely had arrived
at the scene. The word was passed that every wheel and hoof and foot should be muffled as much
as possible, and the infantry were halted, to await the baggage train.

They proceeded.  About one o'clock their advance struck the wagon corral itself.  The Indians
had not discovered them; the caravan out-posts had not discovered them: either side might have
surprised the other side, evidently, but neither side knew.  In fact, they had not been expected
before morning.  No one had dreamed that Major Riley would risk a night march through the sand-hills,
infested with a thousand and more Indians.

