PARIS, August, 1805.

MY LORD:--The Italian subjects of Napoleon the First were far from displaying the same zeal
and the same gratitude for his paternal care and kindness in taking upon himself the trouble
of governing them, as we good Parisians have done.  Notwithstanding that a brigade of our police
agents and spies, drilled for years to applaud and to excite enthusiasm, proceeded as his advanced
guard to raise the public spirit, the reception at Milan was cold and everything else but cordial
and pleasing. The absence of duty did not escape his observation and resentment. Convinced,
in his own mind, of the great blessing, prosperity, and liberty his victories and sovereignty
have conferred on the inhabitants of the other side of the Alps, he ascribed their present
passive or mutinous behaviour to the effect of foreign emissaries from Courts envious of his
glory and jealous of his authority.

He suspected particularly England and Russia of having selected this occasion of a solemnity
that would complete his grandeur to humble his just pride.  He also had some idea within himself
that even Austria might indirectly have dared to influence the sentiments and conduct of her
ci-devant subjects of Lombardy; but his own high opinion of the awe which his very name inspired
at Vienna dispersed these thoughts, and his wrath fell entirely on the audacity of Pitt and
Markof.  Strict orders were therefore issued to the prefects and commissaries of police to
watch vigilantly all foreigners and strangers, who might have arrived, or who should arrive,
to witness the ceremony of the coronation, and to arrest instantly any one who should give
the least reason to suppose that he was an enemy instead of an admirer of His Imperial and
Royal Majesty.  He also commanded the prefects of his palace not to permit any persons to approach
his sacred person, of whose morality and politics they had not previously obtained a good account.

These great measures of security were not entirely unnecessary. Individual vengeance and individual
patriotism sharpened their daggers, and, to use Senator Roederer's language, "were near transforming
the most glorious day of rejoicing into a day of universal mourning."

All our writers on the Revolution agree that in France, within the first twelve years after
we had reconquered our lost liberty, more conspiracies have been denounced than during the
six centuries of the most brilliant epoch of ancient and free Rome.  These facts and avowals
are speaking evidences of the eternal tranquillity of our unfortunate country, of our affection
to our rulers, and of the unanimity with which all the changes of Government have been, notwithstanding
our printed votes, received and approved.

The frequency of conspiracies not only shows the discontent of the governed, but the insecurity
and instability of the governors.  This truth has not escaped Napoleon, who has, therefore,
ordered an expeditious and secret justice to despatch instantly the conspirators, and to bury
the conspiracy in oblivion, except when any grand coup d'etat is to be struck; or, to excite
the passions of hatred, any proofs can be found, or must be fabricated, involving an inimical
or rival foreign Government in an odious plot.  Since the farce which Mehee de la Touche exhibited,
you have, therefore, not read in the Moniteur either of the danger our Emperor has incurred
several times since from the machinations of implacable or fanatical foes, or of the alarm
these have caused his partisans.  They have, indeed, been hinted at in some speeches of our
public functionaries, and in some paragraphs of our public prints, but their particulars will
remain concealed from historians, unless some one of those composing our Court, our fashionable,
or our political circles, has taken the trouble of noting them down; but even to these they
are but imperfectly or incorrectly known.

Could the veracity of a Fouche, a Real, a Talleyrand, or a Duroc (the only members of this
new secret and invisible tribunal for expediting conspirators) be depended upon, they would
be the most authentic annalists of these and other interesting secret occurrences.

What I intend relating to you on this subject are circumstances such as they have been reported
in our best informed societies by our most inquisitive companions.  Truth is certainly the
foundation of these anecdotes; but their parts may be extenuated, diminished, altered, or exaggerated.
Defective or incomplete as they are, I hope you will not judge them unworthy of a page in a
letter, considering the grand personage they concern, and the mystery with which he and his
Government encompass themselves, or in which they wrap up everything not agreeable concerning them.

A woman is said to have been at the head of the first plot against Napoleon since his proclamation
as an Emperor of the French.  She called herself Charlotte Encore; but her real name is not
known.  In 1803 she lived and had furnished a house at Abbeville, where she passed for a young
widow of property, subsisting on her rents.  About the same time several other strangers settled
there; but though she visited the principal inhabitants, she never publicly had any connection
with the newcomers.

In the summer of 1803, a girl at Amiens--some say a real enthusiast of Bonaparte's, but, according
to others, engaged by Madame Bonaparte to perform the part she did demanded, upon her knees,
in a kind of paroxysm of joy, the happiness of embracing him, in doing which she fainted, or
pretended to faint away, and a pension of three thousand livres--was settled on her for her
affection.

Madame Encore, at Abbeville, to judge of her discourse and conversation, was also an ardent
friend and well-wisher of the Emperor; and when, in July, 1804, he passed through Abbeville,
on his journey to the coast, she, also, threw herself at his feet, and declared that she would
die content if allowed the honour of embracing him.  To this he was going to assent, when Duroc
stepped between them, seized her by the arm, and dragged her to an adjoining room, whither
Bonaparte, near fainting from the sudden alarm his friend's interference had occasioned, followed
him, trembling.  In the right sleeve of Madame Encore's gown was found a stiletto, the point
of which was poisoned.  She was the same day transported to this capital, under the inspection
of Duroc, and imprisoned in the Temple.  In her examination she denied having accomplices,
and she expired on the rack without telling even her name. The sub-prefect at Abbeville, the
once famous Andre Dumont, was ordered to disseminate a report that she was shut up as insane
in a madhouse.

In the strict search made by the police in the house occupied by her, no papers or any, other
indications were discovered that involved other persons, or disclosed who she was, or what
induced her to attempt such a rash action.  Before the secret tribunal she is reported to have
said, "that being convinced of Bonaparte's being one of the greatest criminals that ever breathed
upon the earth, she took upon herself the office of a volunteer executioner; having, with every
other good or loyal person, a right to punish him whom the law could not, or dared not, reach."
When, however, some repairs were made in the house at Abbeville by a new tenant, a bundle of
papers was found, which proved that a M. Franquonville, and about thirty, other individuals
(many, of whom were the late newcomers there), had for six months been watching an opportunity
to seize Bonaparte in his journeys between Abbeville and Montreuil, and to carry him to some
part of the coast, where a vessel was ready to sail for England with him.  Had he, however,
made resistance, he would have been shot in France, and his assassins have saved themselves
in the vessel.

The numerous escort that always, since he was an Emperor, accompanied him, and particularly
his concealment of the days of his journeys, prevented the execution of this plot; and Madame
Encore, therefore, took upon her to sacrifice herself for what she thought the welfare of her
country.  How Duroc suspected or discovered her intent is not known; some say that an anonymous
letter informed him of it, while others assert that, in throwing herself at Bonaparte's feet,
this prefect observed the steel through the sleeve of her muslin gown.  Most of her associates
were secretly executed; some, however, were carried to Boulogne and shot at the head of the
army of England as English spies.

LETTER XXXIV.

PARIS, August, 1805.

MY LORD:--After the discovery of Charlotte Encore's attempt, Bonaparte, who hitherto had flattered
himself that he possessed the good wishes, if not the affection, of his female subjects, made
a regulation according to which no women who had not previously given in their names to the
prefects of his palaces, and obtained previous permission, can approach his person or throw
themselves at his feet, without incurring his displeasure, and even arrest.  Of this Imperial
decree, ladies, both of the capital and of the provinces, when he travels, are officially informed.
Notwithstanding this precaution, he was a second time last spring, at Lyons, near falling the
victim of the vengeance or malice of a woman.

In his journey to be crowned King of Italy, he occupied his uncle's episcopal palace at Lyons
during the forty-eight hours he remained there. Most of the persons of both sexes composing
the household of Cardinal Fesch were from his own country, Corsica; among these was one of
the name of Pauline Riotti, who inspected the economy of the kitchens.  It is Bonaparte's custom
to take a dish of chocolate in the forenoon, which she, on the morning of his departure, against
her custom, but under pretence of knowing the taste of the family, desired to prepare.  One
of the cooks observed that she mixed it with something from her pocket, but, without saying
a word to her that indicated suspicion, he warned Bonaparte, in a note, delivered to a page,
to be upon his guard.  When the chamberlain carried in the chocolate, Napoleon ordered the
person who had prepared it to be brought before him.  This being told Pauline, she fainted
away, after having first drunk the remaining contents of the chocolate pot.  Her convulsions
soon indicated that she was poisoned, and, notwithstanding the endeavours of Bonaparte's physician,
Corvisart, she expired within an hour; protesting that her crime was an act of revenge against
Napoleon, who had seduced her, when young, under a promise of marriage; but who, since his
elevation, had not only neglected her, but reduced her to despair by refusing an honest support
for herself and her child, sufficient to preserve her from the degradation of servitude.  Cardinal
Fesch received a severe reprimand for admitting among his domestics individuals with whose
former lives he was not better acquainted, and the same day he dismissed every Corsican in
his service. The cook was, with the reward of a pension, made a member of the Legion of Honour,
and it was given out by Corvisart that Pauline died insane.

Within three weeks after this occurrence, Bonaparte was, at Milan, again exposed to an imminent
danger.  According to his commands, the vigilance of the police had been very strict, and even
severe.  All strangers who could not give the most satisfactory account of themselves, had
either been sent out of the country, or were imprisoned.  He never went out unless strongly
attended, and during his audiences the most trusty officers always surrounded him; these precautions
increased in proportion as the day of his coronation approached.  On the morning of that day,
about nine o'clock, when full dressed in his Imperial and royal robes, and all the grand officers
of State by his side, a paper was delivered to him by his chamberlain, Talleyrand, a nephew
of the Minister.  The instant he had read it, he flew into the arms of Berthier, exclaiming:
"My friend, I am betrayed; are you among the number of conspirators? Jourdan, Lasnes, Mortier,
Bessieres, St. Cyr, are you also forsaking your friend and benefactor?"  They all instantly
encompassed him, begging that he would calm himself; that they all were what they always had
been, dutiful and faithful subjects.  "But read this paper from my prefect, Salmatoris; he
says that if I move a step I may cease to live, as the assassins are near me, as well as before
me."

The commander of his guard then entered with fifty grenadiers, their bayonets fixed, carrying
with them a prisoner, who pointed out four individuals not far from Bonaparte's person, two
of whom were Italian officers of the Royal Italian Guard, and two were dressed in Swiss uniforms.
They were all immediately seized, and at their feet were found three daggers.  One of those
in Swiss regimentals exclaimed, before he was taken: "Tremble, tyrant of my country!  Thousands
of the descendants of William Tell have, with me, sworn your destruction.  You, escape this
day, but the just vengeance of outraged humanity follows you like your shade.  Depend upon
it an untimely end is irremediably reserved you."  So saying, he pierced his heart and fell
a corpse into the arms of the grenadiers who came to arrest him.

This incident suspended the procession to the cathedral for an hour, when Berthier announced
that the conspirators were punished.  Bonaparte evinced on this occasion the same absence of
mind and of courage as on the 9th of November, 1799, when Arena and other deputies drew their
daggers against him at St. Cloud.  As this scene did not redound much to the honour of the
Emperor and King, all mention of the conspiracy was severely prohibited, and the deputations
ready to congratulate him on his escape were dispersed to attend their other duties.

The conspirators are stated to have been four young men, who had lost their parents and fortunes
by the Revolutions effected by Bonaparte in Italy and Switzerland, and who had sworn fidelity
to each other, and to avenge their individual wrongs with the injuries of their countries at
the same time.  They were all prepared and resigned to die, expecting to be cut to pieces the
moment Bonaparte fell by their hands; but one of the Italians, rather superstitious, had, before
he went to the drawing-room, confessed and received absolution from a priest, whom he knew
to be an enemy of Bonaparte; but the priest, in hope of reward, disclosed the conspiracy to
the master of ceremonies, Salmatoris.  The three surviving conspirators are said to have been
literally torn to pieces by the engines of torture, and the priest was shot for having given
absolution to an assassin, and for having concealed his knowledge of the plot an hour after
he was acquainted with it.  Even Salmatoris had some difficulty to avoid being disgraced for
having written a terrifying note, which had exposed the Emperor's weakness, and shown that
his life was dearer to him at the head of Empires than when only at the head of armies.

My narrative of this event I have from an officer present, whose veracity I can guarantee.
He also informed me that, in consequence of it, all the officers of the Swiss brigades in the
French service that were quartered or encamped in Italy were, to the number of near fifty,
dismissed at once.  Of the Italian guards, every officer who was known to have suffered any
losses by the new order of things in his country, was ordered to resign, if he would not enter
into the regiments of the line.

Whatever the police agents did to prevent it, and in spite of some unjust and cruel chastisement,
Bonaparte continued, during his stay in Italy, an object of ridicule in conversation, as well
as in pamphlets and caricatures.  One of these represented him in the ragged garb of a sans-culotte,
pale and trembling on his knees, with bewildered looks and his hair standing upright on his
head like pointed horns, tearing the map of the world to pieces, and, to save his life, offering
each of his generals a slice, who in return regarded him with looks of contempt mixed with pity.

I have just heard of a new plot, or rather a league against Bonaparte's ambition.  At its head
the Generals Jourdan, Macdonald, Le Courbe, and Dessolles are placed, though many less victorious
generals and officers, civil as well as military, are reported to be its members.  Their object
is not to remove or displace Bonaparte as an Emperor of the French; on the contrary, they offer
their lives to strengthen his authority and to resist his enemies; but they ask and advise
him to renounce, for himself, for his relations, and for France, all possessions on the Italian
side of the Alps, as the only means to establish a permanent peace, and to avoid a war with
other States, whose safety is endangered by our great encroachments.  A mutinous kind of address
to this effect has been sent to the camp of Boulogne and to all other encampments of our troops,
that those generals and other military persons there, who chose, might both see the object
and the intent of the associates.  It is reported that Bonaparte ordered it to be burnt by
the hands of the common executioner at Boulogne; that sixteen officers there who had subscribed
their names in appropriation of the address were broken, and dismissed with disgrace; that
Jourdan is deprived of his command in Italy, and ordered to render an account of his conduct
to the Emperor.  Dessolles is also said to be dismissed, and with Macdonald, Le Courbe, and
eighty-four others of His Majesty's subjects, whose names appeared under the remonstrance (or
petition, as some call it), exiled to different departments of this country, where they are
to expect their Sovereign's further determination, and, in the meantime, remain under the inspection
and responsibility of his constituted authorities and commissaries of police. As it is as dangerous
to inquire as to converse on this and other subjects, which the mysterious policy of our Government
condemns to silence or oblivion, I have not yet been able to gather any more or better information
concerning this league, or unconstitutional opposition to the executive power; but as I am
intimate with one of the actors, should he have an opportunity, he will certainly write to
me at full length, and be very explicit.

LETTER XXXV.

PARIS, August, 1805.

MY LORD:--I believe I have before remarked that, under the Government of Bonaparte, causes
relatively the most insignificant have frequently produced effects of the greatest consequence.
A capricious or whimsical character, swaying with unlimited power, is certainly the most dangerous
guardian of the prerogatives of sovereignty, as well as of the rights and liberties of the
people.  That Bonaparte is as vain and fickle as a coquette, as obstinate as a mule, and equally
audacious and unrelenting, every one who has witnessed his actions or meditated on his transactions
must be convinced.  The least opposition irritates his pride, and he determines and commands,
in a moment of impatience or vivacity, what may cause the misery of millions for ages, and,
perhaps, his own repentance for years.

When Bonaparte was officially informed by his Ambassador at Vienna, the young La Rochefoucauld,
that the Emperor of Germany had declined being one of his grand officers of the Legion of Honour,
he flew into a rage, and used against this Prince the most gross, vulgar, and unbecoming language.
I have heard it said that he went so far as to say, "Well, Francis II. is tired of reigning.
I hope to have strength enough to carry a third crown.  He who dares refuse to be and continue
my equal, shall soon, as a vassal, think himself honoured with the regard which, as a master,
I may condescend, from compassion, to bestow on him."  Though forty-eight hours had elapsed
after this furious sally before he met with the Austrian Ambassador, Count Von Cobenzl, his
passion was still so furious, that, observing his grossness and violence, all the members of
the diplomatic corps trembled, both for this their respected member, and for the honour of
our nation thus represented.

When the diplomatic audience was over, he said to Talleyrand, in a commanding and harsh tone
of voice, in the presence of all his aides-de-camp and generals:

"Write this afternoon, by an extraordinary courier, to my Minister at Genoa, Salicetti, to
prepare the Doge and the people for the immediate incorporation of the Ligurian Republic with
my Empire.  Should Austria dare to murmur, I shall, within three months, also incorporate the
ci-devant Republic of Venice with my Kingdom of Italy!"

"But--but--Sire!" uttered the Minister, trembling.

"There exists no 'but,' and I will listen to no 'but,'" interrupted His Majesty.  "Obey my
orders without further discussions.  Should Austria dare to arm, I shall, before next Christmas,
make Vienna the headquarters of a fiftieth military division.  In an hour I expect you with
the despatches ready for Salicetti."

This Salicetti is a Corsican of a respectable family, born at Bastia, in 1758, and it was he
who, during the siege of Toulon in 1793, introduced his countryman, Napoleon Bonaparte, his
present Sovereign, to the acquaintance of Barras, an occurrence which has since produced consequences
so terribly notorious.

Before the Revolution an advocate of the superior council of Corsica, he was elected a member
to the First National Assembly, where, on the 30th of November, 1789, he pressed the decree
which declared the Island of Corsica an integral part of the French monarchy.  In 1792, he
was sent by his fellow citizens as a deputy to the National Convention, where he joined the
terrorist faction, and voted for the death of his King.  In May, 1793, he was in Corsica, and
violently opposed the partisans of General Paoli.  Obliged to make his escape in August from
that island, to save himself, he joined the army of General Carteaux, then marching against
the Marseilles insurgents, whence he was sent by the National Convention with Barras, Gasparin,
Robespierre the younger, and Ricrod, as a representative of the people, to the army before
Toulon, where, as well as at Marseilles, he shared in all the atrocities committed by his colleagues
and by Bonaparte; for which, after the death of the Robespierres, he was arrested with him
as a terrorist.

He had not known Bonaparte much in Corsica, but, finding him and his family in great distress,
with all other Corsican refugees, and observing his adroitness as a captain of artillery, he
recommended him to Barras, and upon their representation to the Committee of Public Safety,
he was promoted to a chef de brigade, or colonel.  In 1796, when Barras gave Bonaparte the
command of the army of Italy, Salicetti was appointed a Commissary of Government to the same
army, and in that capacity behaved with the greatest insolence towards all the Princes of Italy,
and most so towards the Duke of Modena, with whom he and Bonaparte signed a treaty of neutrality,
for which they received a large sum in ready money; but shortly afterwards the duchy was again
invaded, and an attempt made to surprise and seize the Duke.  In 1797 he was chosen a member
of the Council of Five Hundred, where he always continued a supporter of violent measures.

When, in 1799, his former protege, Bonaparte, was proclaimed a First Consul, Salicetti desired
to be placed in the Conservative Senate; but his familiarity displeased Napoleon, who made
him first a commercial agent, and afterwards a Minister to the Ligurian Republic, so as to
keep him at a distance.  During his several missions, he has amassed a fortune, calculated,
at the lowest, of six millions of livres.

The order Salicetti received to prepare the incorporation of Genoa with France, would not,
without the presence of our troops, have been very easy to execute, particularly as he, six
months before, had prevailed on the Doge and the Senate to resign all sovereignty to Lucien
Bonaparte, under the title of a Grand Duke of Genoa.

The cause of Napoleon's change of opinion with regard to his brother Lucien, was that the latter
would not separate from a wife he loved, but preferred domestic happiness to external splendour
frequently accompanied with internal misery.  So that this act of incorporation of the Ligurian
Republic, in fact, originated, notwithstanding the great and deep calculations of our profound
politicians and political schemers, in nothing else but in the keeping of a wife, and in the
refusal of a riband.

That corruption, seduction, and menaces seconded the intrigues and bayonets which convinced
the Ligurian Government of the honour and advantage of becoming subjects of Bonaparte, I have
not the least doubt; but that the Doge, Girolamo Durazzo, and the senators Morchio, Maglione,
Travega, Maghella, Roggieri, Taddei, Balby, and Langlade sold the independence of their country
for ten millions of livres--though it has been positively asserted, I can hardly believe; and,
indeed, money was as little necessary as resistance would have been unavailing, all the forts
and strong positions being in the occupation of our troops.  A general officer present when
the Doge of Genoa, at the head of the Ligurian deputation, offered Bonaparte their homage at
Milan, and exchanged liberty for bondage, assured me that this ci-devant chief magistrate spoke
with a faltering voice and with tears in his eyes, and that indignation was read on the countenance
of every member of the deputation thus forced to prostitute their rights as citizens, and to
vilify their sentiments as patriots.

When Salicetti, with his secretary, Milhaud, had arranged this honourable affair, they set
out from Genoa to announce to Bonaparte, at Milan, their success.  Not above a league from
the former city their carriage was stopped, their persons stripped, and their papers and effects
seized by a gang, called in the country the gang of PATRIOTIC ROBBERS, commanded by Mulieno.
This chief is a descendant of a good Genoese family, proscribed by France, and the men under
him are all above the common class of people.  They never commit any murders, nor do they rob
any but Frenchmen, or Italians known to be adherents of the French party.  Their spoils they
distribute among those of their countrymen who, like themselves, have suffered from the revolutions
in Italy within these last nine years.  They usually send the amount destined to relieve these
persons to the curates of the several parishes, signifying in what manner it is to be employed.
Their conduct has procured them many friends among the low and the poor, and, though frequently
pursued by our gendarmes, they have hitherto always escaped.  The papers captured by them on
this occasion from Salicetti are said to be of a most curious nature, and throw great light
on Bonaparte's future views of Italy.  The original act of consent of the Ligurian Government
to the incorporation with France was also in this number.  It is reported that they were deposited
with the Austrian Minister at Genoa, who found means to forward them to his Court; and it is
supposed that their contents did not a little to hasten the present movements of the Emperor
of Germany.

Another gang, known under the appellation of the PATRIOTIC AVENGERS, also desolates the Ligurian
Republic.  They never rob, but always murder those whom they consider as enemies of their country.
Many of our officers, and even our sentries on duty, have been wounded or killed by them; and,
after dark, therefore, no Frenchman dares walk out unattended.  Their chief is supposed to
be a ci-devant Abbe, Sagati, considered a political as well as a religious fanatic.  In consequence
of the deeds of these patriotic avengers, Bonaparte's first act, as a Sovereign of Liguria,
was the establishment of special military commissions, and a law prohibiting, under pain of
death, every person from carrying arms who could not show a written permission of our commissary
of police.  Robbers and assassins are, unfortunately, common to all nations, and all people
of all ages; but those of the above description are only the production and progeny of revolutionary
and troublesome times.  They pride themselves, instead of violating the laws, on supplying
their inefficacy and counteracting their partiality.

LETTER XXXVI.

PARIS, September, 1805.

MY LORD:--Bonaparte is now the knight of more Royal Orders than any other Sovereign in Europe,
and were he to put them on all at once, their ribands would form stuff enough for a light summer
coat of as many different colours as the rainbow.  The Kings of Spain, of Naples, of Prussia,
of Portugal, and of Etruria have admitted him a knight-companion, as well as the Electors of
Bavaria, Hesse, and Baden, and the Pope of Rome.  In return he has appointed these Princes
his grand officers of HIS Legion of Honour, the highest rank of his newly instituted Imperial
Order.  It is even said that some of these Sovereigns have been honoured by him with the grand
star and broad riband of the Order of His Iron Crown of the Kingdom of Italy.

Before Napoleon's departure for Milan last spring, Talleyrand intimated to the members of the
foreign diplomatic corps here, that their presence would be agreeable to the Emperor of the
French at his coronation at Milan as a King of Italy.  In the preceding summer a similar hint,
or order, had been given by him for a diplomatic trip to Aix-la-Chapelle, and all Their Excellencies
set a-packing instantly; but some legitimate Sovereigns, having since discovered that it was
indecent for their representatives to be crowding the suite of an insolently and proudly travelling
usurper, under different pretences declined the honour of an invitation and journey to Italy.
It would, besides, have been pleasant enough to have witnessed the Ambassadors of Austria and
Prussia, whose Sovereigns had not acknowledged Bonaparte's right to his assumed title of King
of Italy, indirectly approving it by figuring at the solemnity which inaugurated him as such.
Of this inconsistency and impropriety Talleyrand was well aware; but audacity on one side,
and endurance and submission on the other, had so often disregarded these considerations before,
that he saw no indelicacy or impertinence in the proposal.  His master had, however, the gratification
to see at his levee, and in his wife's drawing-room, the Ambassadors of Spain, Naples, Portugal,
and Bavaria, who laid at the Imperial and royal feet the Order decorations of their own Princes,
to the nor little entertainment of His Imperial and Royal Majesty, and to the great edification
of his dutiful subjects on the other side of the Alps.

The expenses of Bonaparte's journey to Milan, and his coronation there (including also those
of his attendants from France), amounted to no less a sum than fifteen millions of livres--of
which one hundred and fifty thousand livres--was laid out in fireworks, double that sum in
decorations of the Royal Palace and the cathedral, and three millions of livres--in presents
to different generals, grand officers, deputations, etc.  The poor also shared his bounty;
medals to the value of fifty thousand livres--were thrown out among them on the day of the
ceremony, besides an equal sum given by Madame Napoleon to the hospitals and orphan-houses.
These last have a kind of hereditary or family claim on the purse of our Sovereign; their parents
were the victims of the Emperor's first step towards glory and grandeur.

Another three millions of livres was expended for the march of troops from France to form pleasure
camps in Italy, and four millions more was requisite for the forming and support of these encampments
during two months, and the Emperor distributed among the officers and men composing them two
million livres' worth of rings, watches, snuff-boxes, portraits set with diamonds, stars, and
other trinkets, as evidences of His Majesty's satisfaction with their behaviour, presence,
and performances.

These troops were under the command of Bonaparte's Field-marshal, Jourdan, a general often
mentioned in the military annals of our revolutionary war.  During the latter part of the American
war, he served under General Rochambeau as a common soldier, and obtained in 1783, after the
peace, his discharge.  He then turned a pedlar, in which situation the Revolution found him.
He had also married, for her fortune, a lame daughter of a tailor, who brought him a fortune
of two thousand livres--from whom he has since been divorced, leaving her to shift for herself
as she can, in a small milliner's shop at Limoges, where her husband was born in 1763.

Jourdan was among the first members and pillars of the Jacobin Club organized in his native
town, which procured him rapid promotion in the National Guards, of whom, in 1792, he was already
a colonel.  His known love of liberty and equality induced the Committee of Public Safety,
in 1793, to appoint him to the chief command of the armies of Ardennes and of the North, instead
of Lamarche and Houchard.  On the 17th of October the same year, he gained the victory of Wattignies,
which obliged the united forces of Austria, Prussia, and Germany to raise the siege of Maubeuge.
The jealous Republican Government, in reward, deposed him and appointed Pichegru his successor,
which was the origin of that enmity and malignity with which Jourdan pursued this unfortunate
general, even to his grave.  He never forgave Pichegru the acceptance of a command which he
could not decline without risking his life; and when he should have avenged his disgrace on
the real causes of it, he chose to resent it on him who, like himself, was merely an instrument,
or a slave, in the hands and under the whip of a tyrannical power.

After the imprisonment of General Hoche, in March, 1794, Jourdan succeeded him as chief of
the army of the Moselle.  In June he joined, with thirty thousand men, the right wing of the
army of the North, forming a new one, under the name of the army of the Sambre and Meuse. On
the 16th of the same month he gained a complete victory over the Prince of Coburg, who tried
to raise the siege of Charleroy.  This battle, which was fought near Trasegnies, is, nevertheless,
commonly called the battle of Fleurus.  After Charleroy had surrendered on the 25th, Jourdan
and his army were ordered to act under the direction of General Pichegru, who had drawn the
plan of that brilliant campaign. Always envious of this general, Jourdan did everything to
retard his progress, and at last intrigued so well that the army of the Sambre and the Meuse
was separated from that of the North.

With the former of these armies Jourdan pursued the retreating confederates, and, after driving
them from different stands and positions, he repulsed them to the banks of the Rhine, which
river they were obliged to pass.  Here ended his successes this year, successes that were not
obtained without great loss on our side.

Jourdan began the campaigns of 1795 and 1796 with equal brilliancy, and ended them with equal
disgrace.  After penetrating into Germany with troops as numerous as well-disciplined, he was
defeated at the end of them by Archduke Charles, and retreated always with such precipitation,
and in such confusion, that it looked more like the flight of a disorderly rabble than the
retreat of regular troops; and had not Moreau, in 1796, kept the enemy in awe, few of Jourdan's
officers or men would again have seen France; for the inhabitants of Franconia rose on these
marauders, and cut them to pieces, wherever they could surprise or waylay them.

In 1797, as a member of the Council of Five Hundred, he headed the Jacobin faction against
the moderate party, of which Pichegru was a chief; and he had the cowardly vengeance of base
rivalry to pride himself upon having procured the transportation of that patriotic general
to Cayenne.  In 1799, he again assumed the command of the army of Alsace and of Switzerland;
but he crossed the Rhine and penetrated into Suabia only to be again routed by the Archduke
Charles, and to repass this river in disorder.  Under the necessity of resigning as a general-in-chief,
he returned to the Council of Five Hundred, more violent than ever, and provoked there the
most oppressive measures against his fellow citizens. Previous to the revolution effected by
Bonaparte in November of that year, he had entered with Garreau and Santerre into a conspiracy,
the object of which was to restore the Reign of Terror, and to prevent which Bonaparte said
he made those changes which placed him at the head of Government.  The words were even printed
in the papers of that period, which Bonaparte on the 10th of November addressed to the then
deputy of Mayenne, Prevost: "If the plot entered into by Jourdan and others, and of which they
have not blushed to propose to me the execution, had not been defeated, they would have surrounded
the place of your sitting, and to crush all future opposition, ordered a number of deputies
to be massacred.  That done, they were to establish the sanguinary despotism of the Reign of
Terror."  But whether such was Jourdan's project, or whether it was merely given out to be
such by the consular faction, to extenuate their own usurpation, he certainly had connected
himself with the most guilty and contemptible of the former terrorists, and drew upon himself
by such conduct the hatred and blame even of those whose opinion had long been suspended on
his account.

General Jourdan was among those terrorists whom the Consular Government condemned to transportation;
but after several interviews with Bonaparte he was not only pardoned, but made a Counsellor
of State of the military section; and afterwards, in 1801, an administrator-general of Piedmont,
where he was replaced by General Menou in 1803, being himself entrusted with the command in
Italy.  This place he has preserved until last month, when he was ordered to resign it to Massena,
with whom he had a quarrel, and would have fought him in a duel, had not the Viceroy, Eugene
de Beauharnais, put him under arrest and ordered him back hither, where he is daily expected.
If Massena's report to Bonaparte be true, the army of Italy was very far from being as orderly
and numerous as Jourdan's assertions would have induced us to believe.  But this accusation
of a rival must be listened to with caution; because, should Massena meet with repulse, he
will no doubt make use of it as an apology; and should he be victorious, hold it out as a claim
for more honour and praise.

The same doubts which still continue of Jourdan's political opinions remain also with regard
to his military capacity.  But the unanimous declaration of those who have served under his
orders as a general must silence both his blind admirers and unjust slanderers.  They all allow
him some military ability; he combines and prepares in the Cabinet a plan of defence and attack,
with method and intelligence, but he does not possess the quick coup d'oeil, and that promptitude
which perceives, and rectifies accordingly, an error on the field of battle.  If, on the day
of action, some accident, or some manoeuvre, occurs, which has not been foreseen by him, his
dull and heavy genius does not enable him to alter instantly his dispositions, or to remedy
errors, misfortunes, or improvidences.  This kind of talent, and this kind of absence of talent,
explain equally the causes of his advantages, as well as the origin of his frequent disasters.
Nobody denies him courage, but, with most of our other republican generals, he has never been
careful of the lives of the troops under him.  I have heard an officer of superior talents
and rank assert, in the presence of Carnot, that the number of wounded and killed under Jourdan,
when victorious, frequently surpassed the number of enemies he had defeated.  I fear it is
too true that we are as much, if not more, indebted for our successes to the superior number
as to the superior valour of our troops.

Jourdan is, with regard to fortune, one of our poorest republican generals who have headed
armies.  He has not, during all his campaigns, collected more than a capital of eight millions
of livres--a mere trifle compared to the fifty millions of Massena, the sixty millions of Le
Clerc, the forty millions of Murat, and the thirty-six millions of Augereau; not to mention
the hundred millions of Bonaparte.  It is also true that Jourdan is a gambler and a debauchee,
fond of cards, dice, and women; and that in Italy, except two hours in twenty-four allotted
to business, he passed the remainder of his time either at the gaming-tables, or in the boudoirs
of his seraglio--I say seraglio, because he kept, in the extensive house joining his palace
as governor and commander, ten women-three French, three Italians, two Germans, two Irish or
English girls.  He supported them all in style; but they were his slaves, and he was their
sultan, whose official mutes (his aides-de-camp) both watched them, and, if necessary, chastised
them.

LETTER XXXVII.

PARIS, September, 1805.

MY LORD:--I can truly defy the world to produce a corps of such a heterogeneous composition
as our Conservative Senate, when I except the members composing Bonaparte's Legion of Honour.
Some of our Senators have been tailors, apothecaries, merchants, chemists, quacks, physicians,
barbers, bankers, soldiers, drummers, dukes, shopkeepers, mountebanks, Abbes, generals, savans,
friars, Ambassadors, counsellors, or presidents of Parliament, admirals, barristers, Bishops,
sailors, attorneys, authors, Barons, spies, painters, professors, Ministers, sans-culottes,
atheists, stonemasons, robbers, mathematicians, philosophers, regicides, and a long et cetera.
Any person reading through the official list of the members of the Senate, and who is acquainted
with their former situations in life, may be convinced of this truth.  Should he even be ignorant
of them, let him but inquire, with the list in his hand, in any of our fashionable or political
circles; he will meet with but few persons who are not able or willing to remove his doubts,
or to gratify his curiosity.  There are not many of them whom it is possible to elevate, but
those are still more numerous whom it is impossible to degrade.  Their past lives, vices, errors,
or crimes, have settled their characters and reputation; and they must live and die in 'statu
quo', either as fools or as knaves, and perhaps as both.

I do not mean to say that they are all criminals or all equally criminal, if insurrection against
lawful authority and obedience to usurped tyranny are not to be considered as crimes; but there
are few indeed who can lay their hands on their bosoms and say, 'vitam expendere vero'.  Some
of them, as a Lagrange, Berthollet, Chaptal, Laplace, Francois de Neuf-Chateau, Tronchet, Monge,
Lacepede, and Bougainville, are certainly men of talents; but others, as a Porcher, Resnier,
Vimar, Auber, Perk, Sera, Vernier, Vien, Villetard, Tascher, Rigal, Baciocchi, Beviere, Beauharnais,
De Luynea (a ci-devant duke, known under the name of Le Gros Cochon), nature never destined
but to figure among those half-idiots and half-imbeciles who are, as it were, intermedial between
the brute and human creation.

Sieges, Cabanis, Garron Coulon, Lecouteul, Canteleu, Lenoin Laroche, Volney, Gregoire, Emmery,
Joucourt, Boissy d'Anglas, Fouche, and Roederer form another class,--some of them regicides,
others assassins and plunderers, but all intriguers whose machinations date from the beginning
of the Revolution.  They are all men of parts, of more or less knowledge, and of great presumption.
As to their morality, it is on a level with their religion and loyalty.  They betrayed their
King, and had denied their God already in 1789.

After these come some others, who again have neither talents to boast of nor crimes of which
they have to be ashamed.  They have but little pretension to genius, none to consistency, and
their honesty equals their capacity.  They joined our political revolution as they might have
done a religious procession.  It was at that time a fashion; and they applauded our revolutionary
innovations as they would have done the introduction of a new opera, of a new tragedy, of a
new comedy, or of a new farce.  To this fraternity appertain a ci-devant Comte de Stult-Tracy,
Dubois--Dubay, Kellerman, Lambrechts, Lemercier, Pleville--Le Pelley, Clement de Ris, Peregeaux,
Berthelemy, Vaubois, Nrignon, D'Agier, Abrial, De Belloy, Delannoy, Aboville, and St. Martin
La Motte.

Such are the characteristics of men whose 'senatus consultum' bestows an Emperor on France,
a King on Italy, makes of principalities departments of a Republic, and transforms Republics
into provinces or principalities. To show the absurdly fickle and ridiculously absurd appellations
of our shamefully perverted institutions, this Senate was called the Conservative Senate; that
is to say, it was to preserve the republican consular constitution in its integrity, both against
the; encroachments of the executive and legislative power, both against the manoeuvres of the
factions, the plots of the royalists or monarchists, and the clamours of a populace of levellers.
But during the five years that these honest wiseacres have been preserving, everything has
perished--the Republic, the Consuls, free discussions, free election, the political liberty,
and the liberty of the Press; all--all are found nowhere but in old, useless, and rejected
codes.  They have, however, in a truly patriotic manner taken care of their own dear selves.
Their salaries are more than doubled since 1799.

Besides mock Senators, mock praetors, mock quaestors, other 'nomina libertatis' are revived,
so as to make the loss of the reality so much the more galling.  We have also two curious commissions;
one called "the Senatorial Commission of Personal Liberty," and the other "the Senatorial Commission
of the Liberty of the Press."  The imprisonment without cause, and transportation without trial,
of thousands of persons of both sexes weekly, show the grand advantages which arise from the
former of these commissions; and the contents of our new books and daily prints evince the
utility and liberality of the latter.

But from the past conduct of these our Senators, members of these commissions, one may easily
conclude what is to be expected in future from their justice and patriotism.  Lenoin Laroche,
at the head of the one, was formerly an advocate of some practice, but attended more to politics
than to the business of his clients, and was, therefore, at the end of the session of the first
assembly (of which he was a member), forced, for subsistence, to become the editor of an insignificant
journal.  Here he preached licentiousness, under the name of Liberty, and the agrarian law
in recommending Equality.  A prudent courtier of all systems in fashion, and of all factions
in power, he escaped proscription, though not accusation of having shared in the national robberies.
A short time in the summer of 1797, after the dismissal of Cochon, he acted as a Minister of
Police; and in 1798 the Jacobins elected him a member of the Council of Ancients, where he,
with other deputies, sold himself to Bonaparte, and was, in return, rewarded with a place in
the Senate.  Under monarchy he was a republican, and under a Republic he extolled monarchical
institutions.  He wished to be singular, and to be rich.  Among so many shocking originals,
however, he was not distinguished; and among so many philosophical marauders, he had no opportunity
to pillage above two millions of livres.  This friend of liberty is now one of the most despotic
Senators, and this lover of equality never answers when spoken to, if not addressed as "His
Excellency," or "Monseigneur."

Boissy d' Anglas, another member of this commission, was before the Revolution a steward to
Louis XVIII. when Monsieur; and, in 1789, was chosen a deputy of the first assembly, where
he joined the factions, and in his speeches and writings defended all the enormities that dishonoured
the beginning as well as the end of the Revolution.  A member afterwards of the National Convention,
he was sent in mission to Lyons, where, instead of healing the wounds of the inhabitants, he
inflicted new ones. When, on the 15th of March, 1796, in the Council of Five Hundred, he pronounced
the oath of hatred to royalty, he added, that this oath was in his heart, otherwise no power
upon earth could have forced him to take it; and he is now a sworn subject of Napoleon the
First!  He pronounced the panegyric of Robespierre, and the apotheosis of Marat.  "The soul,"
said he, "was moved and elevated in hearing Robespierre speak of the Supreme Being with philosophical
ideas, embellished by eloquence;" and he signed the removal of the ashes of Marat to the temple
consecrated to humanity!  In September, 1797, he was, as a royalist, condemned to transportation
by the Directory; but in 1799 Bonaparte recalled him, made him first a tribune and afterwards
a Senator.

Boissy d' Anglas, though an apologist of robbers and assassins, has neither murdered nor plundered;
but, though he has not enriched himself, he has assisted in ruining all his former protectors,
benefactors, and friends.

Sers, a third member of this commission, was, before the Revolution, a bankrupt merchant at
Bordeaux, but in 1791 was a municipal officer of the same city, and sent as a deputy to the
National Assembly, where he attempted to rise from the clouds that encompassed his heavy genius
by a motion for pulling down all the statues of Kings all over France.  He seconded another
motion of Bonaparte's prefect, Jean Debrie, to decree a corps of tyrannicides, destined to
murder all Emperors, Kings, and Princes.  At the club of the Jacobins, at Bordeaux, he prided
himself on having caused the arrest and death of three hundred aristocrats; and boasted that
he never went out without a dagger to despatch, by a summary justice, those who had escaped
the laws.  After meeting with well-merited contempt, and living for some time in the greatest
obscurity, by a handsome present to Madame Bonaparte, in 1799, he obtained the favour of Napoleon,
who dragged him forward to be placed among other ornaments of his Senate.  Sers has just cunning
enough to be taken for a man of sense when with fools; when with men of sense, he reassumes
the place allotted him by Nature.  Without education, as well as without parts, he for a long
time confounded brutal scurrility with oratory, and thought himself eloquent when he was only
insolent or impertinent.  His ideas of liberty are such that, when he was a municipal officer,
he signed a mandate of arrest against sixty-four individuals of both sexes, who were at a ball,
because they had refused to invite to it one of his nieces.

Abrial, Emmery, Vernier, and Lemercier are the other four members of that commission; of these,
two are old intriguers, two are nullities, and all four are slaves.

Of the seven members of the senatorial commission for preserving the liberty of the Press,
Garat and Roederer are the principal.  The former is a pedant, while pretending to be a philosopher;
and he signed the sentence of his good King's death, while declaring himself a royalist. A
mere valet to Robespierre, his fawning procured him opportunities to enrich himself with the
spoil of those whom his calumnies and plots caused to be massacred or guillotined.  When, as
a Minister of Justice, he informed Louis XVI. of his condemnation, he did it with such an affected
and atrocious indifference that he even shocked his accomplices, whose nature had not much
of tenderness.  As a member of the first assembly, as a Minister under the convention, and
as a deputy of the Council of Five Hundred, he always opposed the liberty of the Press. "The
laws, you say" (exclaimed he, in the Council), "punish libellers; so they do thieves and housebreakers;
but would you, therefore, leave your doors unbolted?  Is not the character, the honour, and
the tranquillity of a citizen preferable to his treasures? and, by the liberty of the Press,
you leave them at the mercy of every scribbler who can write or think. The wound inflicted
may heal, but the scar will always remain.  Were you, therefore, determined to decree the motion
for this dangerous and impolitic liberty, I make this amendment, that conviction of having
written a libel carries with it capital punishment, and that a label be fastened on the breast
of the libeller, when carried to execution, with this inscription: 'A social murderer,' or
'A murderer of characters!'"

Roederer has belonged to all religious or antireligious sects, and to all political or anti-social
factions, these last twenty years; but, after approving, applauding, and serving them, he has
deserted them, sold them, or betrayed them.  Before the Revolution, a Counseller of Parliament
at Metz, he was a spy of the Court on his colleagues; and, since the Revolution, he served
the Jacobins as a spy on the Court.  Immoral and unprincipled to the highest degree, his profligacy
and duplicity are only equalled by his perversity and cruelty.  It was he who, on the 10th
of August, 1792, betrayed the King and the Royal Family into the hands of their assassins,
and who himself made a merit of this infamous act. After he had been repulsed by all, even
by the most sanguinary of our parties and partisans, by a Brissot, a Marat, a Robespierre,
a Tallien, and a Barras, Bonaparte adopted him first as a Counsellor of State, and afterwards
as a Senator.  His own and only daughter died in a miscarriage, the consequence of an incestuous
commerce with her unnatural parent; and his only, son is disinherited by him for resenting
his father's baseness in debauching a young girl whom the son had engaged to marry.

With the usual consistency of my revolutionary countrymen, he has, at one period, asserted
that the liberty of the Press was necessary for the preservation both of men and things, for
the protection of governors as well as of the governed, and that it was the best support of
a constitutional Government.  At another time he wrote that, as it was impossible to fix the
limits between the liberty and the licentiousness of the Press, the latter destroyed the benefits
of the former; that the liberty of the Press was useful only against a Government which one
wished to overturn, but dangerous to a Government which one wished to preserve.  To show his
indifference about his own character, as well as about the opinion of the public, these opposite
declarations were inserted in one of our daily papers, and both were signed "Roederer."

In 1789, he was indebted above one million two hundred thousand livres--and he now possesses
national property purchased for seven millions of livres--and he avows himself to be worth
three millions more in money placed in our public funds.  He often says, laughingly, that he
is under great obligations to Robespierre, whose guillotine acquitted in one day all his debts.
All his creditors, after being denounced for their aristocracy, were murdered en masse by this
instrument of death.

Of all the old beaux and superannuated libertines whose company I have had the misfortune of
not being able to avoid, Roederer is the most affected, silly, and disgusting.  His wrinkled
face, and effeminate and childish air; his assiduities about every woman of beauty or fashion;
his confidence in his own merit, and his presumption in his own power, wear such a curious
contrast with his trembling hands, running eyes, and enervated person, that I have frequently
been ready to laugh at him in his face, had not indignation silenced all other feeling.  A
light-coloured wig covers a bald head; his cheeks and eyelids are painted, and his teeth false;
and I have seen a woman faint away from the effect of his breath, notwithstanding that he infects
with his musk and perfumes a whole house only with his presence.  When on the ground floor
you may smell him in the attic.

LETTER XXXVIII.

PARIS, September, 1805.

MY LORD:--The reciprocal jealousy and even interest of Austria, France, and Russia have hitherto
prevented the tottering Turkish Empire from being partitioned, like Poland, or seized, like
Italy; to serve as indemnities, like the German empire; or to be shared, as reward to the allies,
like the Empire of Mysore.

When we consider the anarchy that prevails, both in the Government and among the subjects,
as well in the capital as in the provinces of the Ottoman Porte; when we reflect on the mutiny
and cowardice of its armies and navy, the ignorance and incapacity of its officers and military
and naval commanders, it is surprising, indeed, as I have heard Talleyrand often declare, that
more foreign political intrigues should be carried on at Constantinople alone than in all other
capitals of Europe taken together.  These intrigues, however, instead of doing honour to the,
sagacity and patriotism of the members of the Divan, expose only their corruption and imbecility;
and, instead of indicating a dread of the strength of the Sublime Sultan, show a knowledge
of his weakness, of which the gold of the most wealthy, and the craft of the most subtle, by
turns are striving to profit.

Beyond a doubt the enmity of the Ottoman Porte can do more mischief than its friendship can
do service.  Its neutrality is always useful, while its alliance becomes frequently a burden,
and its support of no advantage.  It is, therefore, more from a view of preventing evils than
from expectation of profit, that all other Powers plot, cabal, and bribe. The map of the Turkish
Empire explains what maybe though absurd or nugatory in this assertion.

As soon as a war with Austria was resolved on by the Brissot faction in 1792, emissaries were
despatched to Constantinople to engage the Divan to invade the provinces of Austria and Russia,
thereby to create a diversion in favour of this country.  Our Ambassador in Turkey at that
time, Comte de Choiseul-Gouffier, though an admirer of the Revolution, was not a republican,
and, therefore, secretly counteracted what he officially seemed to wish to effect.  The Imperial
Court succeeded, therefore, in establishing a neutrality of the Ottoman Porte, but Comte de
Choiseul was proscribed by the Convention.  As academician, he was, however, at St. Petersburg,
liberally recompensed by Catherine II. for the services the Ambassador had performed at Constantinople.

In May, 1793, the Committee of Public Safety determined to expedite another embassy to the
Grand. Seignior, at the head of which was the famous intriguer, De Semonville, whose revolutionary
diplomacy had, within three years, alarmed the Courts of Madrid, Naples, and Turin, as well
as the republican Government of Genoa.  His career towards Turkey was stopped in the Grisons
Republic, on the 25th of July following, where he, with sixteen other persons of his suite,
was arrested, and sent a prisoner, first to Milan, and afterwards to Mantua.  He carried with
him presents of immense value, which were all seized by the Austrians.  Among them were four
superb coaches, highly finished, varnished, and gilt; what is iron or brass in common carriages
was here gold or silver-gilt.  Two large chests were filled with stuff of gold brocade, India
gold muslins, and shawls and laces of very great value.  Eighty thousand louis d'or in ready
money; a service of gold plate of twenty covers, which formerly belonged to the Kings of France;
two small boxes full of diamonds and brilliants, the intrinsic worth of which was estimated
at forty-eight millions of livres--and a great number of jewels; among others, the crown diamond,
called here the Regents', and in your country the Pitt Diamond, fell, with other riches, into
the hands of the captors. Notwithstanding this loss and this disappointment, we contrived in
vain to purchase the hostility of the Turks against our enemies, though with the sacrifice
of no less a sum (according to the report of Saint Just, in June, 1794,) than seventy millions
of livres:  These official statements prove the means which our so often extolled economical
and moral republican Governments have employed in their negotiations.

After the invasion of Egypt, in time of peace, by Bonaparte, the Sultan became at last convinced
of the sincerity of our professions of friendship, which he returned with a declaration of
war. The preliminaries of peace with your country, in October, 1801, were, however, soon followed
with a renewal of our former friendly intercourse with the Ottoman Porte. The voyage of Sebastiani
into Egypt and Syria, in the autumn of 1802, showed that our tenderness for the inhabitants
of these countries had not diminished, and that we soon intended to bestow on them new hugs
of fraternity.  Your pretensions to Malta impeded our prospects in the East, and your obstinacy
obliged us to postpone our so well planned schemes of encroachments.  It was then that Bonaparte
first selected for his representative to the Grand Seignior, General Brune, commonly called
by Moreau, Macdonald, and other competent judges of military merit, an intriguer at the head
of armies, and a warrior in time of peace when seated in the Council chamber.

This Brune was, before the Revolution, a journeyman printer, and married to a washerwoman,
whose industry and labour alone prevented him from starving, for he was as vicious as idle.
The money he gained when he chose to work was generally squandered away in brothels, among
prostitutes.  To supply his excesses he had even recourse to dishonest means, and was shut
up in the prison of Bicetre for robbing his master of types and of paper.

In the beginning of the Revolution, his very crimes made him an acceptable associate of Marat,
who, with the money advanced by the Orleans faction, bought him a printing-office, and he printed
the so dreadfully well-known journal, called 'L'Amie du Peuple'.  From the principles of this
atrocious paper, and from those of his sanguinary patron, he formed his own political creed.
He distinguished himself frequently at the clubs of the Cordeliers, and of the Jacobins, by
his extravagant motions, and by provoking laws of proscription against a wealth he did not
possess, and against a rank he would have dishonoured, but did not see without envy.  On the
30th of June, 1791, he said, in the former of these clubs:

"We hear everywhere complaints of poverty; were not our eyes so often disgusted with the sight
of unnatural riches, our hearts would not so often be shocked at the unnatural sufferings of
humanity.  The blessings of our Revolution will never be felt by the world, until we in France
are on a level, with regard to rank as well as to fortune.  I, for my part, know too well the
dignity of human nature ever to bow to a superior; but, brothers and friends, it is not enough
that we are all politically equal, we must also be all equally rich or equally poor--we must
either all strive to become men of property, or reduce men of property to become sans-culottes.
Believe me, the aristocracy of property is more dangerous than the aristocracy of prerogative
or fanaticism, because it is more common.  Here is a list sent to 'L' Amie du People', but
of which prudence yet prohibits the publication.  It contains the names of all the men of property
of Paris, and of the Department of the Seine, the amount of their fortunes, and a proposal
how to reduce and divide it among our patriots.  Of its great utility in the moment when we
have been striking our grand blows, nobody dares doubt; I, therefore, move that a brotherly
letter be sent to every society of our brothers and friends in the provinces, inviting each
of them to compose one of similar contents and of similar tendency, in their own districts,
with what remarks they think proper to affix, and to forward them to us, to be deposited, in
the mother club, after taking copies of them for the archives of their own society."

His motion was decreed.

Two days afterwards, he again ascended the tribune.  "You approved," said he, "of the measures
I lately proposed against the aristocracy of property; I will now tell you of another aristocracy
which we must also crush--I mean that of religion, and of the clergy.  Their supports are folly,
cowardice, and ignorance.  All priests are to be proscribed as criminals, and despised as impostors
or idiots; and all altars must be reduced to dust as unnecessary.  To prepare the public mind
for such events, we must enlighten it; which can only be done by disseminating extracts from
'L' Amie du People', and other philosophical publications. I have here some ballads of my own
composition, which have been sung in my quarter; where all superstitious persons have already
trembled, and all fanatics are raving.  If you think proper, I will, for a mere trifle, print
twenty thousand copies of them, to be distributed and disseminated gratis all over France."

After some discussion, the treasurer of the club was ordered to advance Citizen Brune the sum
required, and the secretary to transmit the ballads to the fraternal societies in the provinces.

Brune put on his first regimentals as an aide-decamp to General Santerre in December, 1792,
after having given proofs of his military prowess the preceding September, in the massacre
of the prisoners in the Abbey.  In 1793 he was appointed a colonel in the revolutionary army,
which, during the Reign of Terror, laid waste the departments of the Gironde, where he was
often seen commanding his corps, with a human head fixed on his sword.  On the day when he
entered Bordeaux with his troops, a new-born child occupied the same place, to the great horror
of the inhabitants. During this brilliant expedition he laid the first foundation of his present
fortune, having pillaged in a most unmerciful manner, and arrested or shot every suspected
person who could not, or would not, exchange property for life.  On his return to Paris, his
patriotism was recompensed with a commission of a general of brigade.  On the death of Robespierre,
he was arrested as a terrorist, but, after some months' imprisonment, again released.

In October, 1795, he assisted Napoleon Bonaparte in the massacre of the Parisians, and obtained
for it, from the director Barras, the rank of a general of division.  Though occupying, in
time of war, such a high military rank, he had hitherto never seen an enemy, or witnessed an
engagement.

After Bonaparte had planned the invasion and pillage of Switzerland, Brune was charged to execute
this unjust outrage against the law of nations.  His capacity to intrigue procured him this
distinction, and he did honour to the choice of his employers.  You have no doubt read that,
after lulling the Government of Berne into security by repeated proposals of accommodation,
he attacked the Swiss and Bernese troops during a truce, and obtained by treachery successes
which his valour did not promise him.  The pillage, robberies, and devastations in Helvetia
added several more millions to his previously great riches.

It was after his campaign in Holland, during the autumn of 1799, that he first began to claim
some military glory.  He owed, however, his successes to the superior number of his troops,
and to the talents of the generals and officers serving under him.  Being made a Counsellor
of State by Bonaparte, he was entrusted with the command of the army against the Chouans. 
Here he again seduced by his promises, and duped by his intrigues, acted infamously--but was
successful.

LETTER XXXIX.

PARIS, September, 1805.

MY LORD:--Three months before Brune set out on his embassy to Constantinople, Talleyrand and
Fouche were collecting together all the desperadoes of our Revolution, and all the Italian,
Corsican, Greek, and Arabian renegadoes and vagabonds in our country, to form him a set of
attendants agreeable to the real object of his mission.

You know too much of our national character and of my own veracity to think it improbable,
when I assure you that most of our great men in place are as vain as presumptuous, and that
sometimes vanity and presumption get the better of their discretion and prudence.  What I am
going to tell you I did not hear myself, but it was reported to me by a female friend, as estimable
for her virtues as admired for her accomplishments.  She is often honoured with invitations
to Talleyrand's familiar parties, composed chiefly of persons whose fortunes are as independent
as their principles, who, though not approving the Revolution, neither joined its opposers
nor opposed its adherents, preferring tranquillity and obscurity to agitation and celebrity.
Their number is not much above half a dozen, and the Minister calls them the only honest people
in France with whom he thinks himself safe.

When it was reported here that two hundred persons of Brune's suite had embarked at Marseilles
and eighty-four at Genoa, and when it was besides known that nearly fifty individuals accompanied
him in his outset, this unusual occurrence caused much conversation and many speculations in
all our coteries and fashionable circles.  About that time my friend dined with Talleyrand,
and, by chance, also mentioned this grand embassy, observing, at the same time, that it was
too much honour done to the Ottoman Porte, and too much money thrown away upon splendour, to
honour such an imbecile and tottering Government.

"How people talk," interrupted Talleyrand, "about what they do not comprehend.  Generous as
Bonaparte is, he does not throw away his expenses; perhaps within twelve months all these renegadoes
or adventurers, whom you all consider as valets of Brune, will be three-tailed Pachas or Beys,
leading friends of liberty, who shall have gloriously broken their fetters as slaves of a Selim
to become the subjects of a Napoleon.  The Eastern Empire has, indeed, long expired, but it
may suddenly be revived."

"Austria and Russia," replied my friend, "would never suffer it, and England would sooner ruin
her navy and exhaust her Treasury than permit such a revolution."

"So they have tried to do," retorted Talleyrand, "to bring about a counter revolution in France.
But though only a moment is requisite to erect the standard of revolt, ages often are necessary
to conquer and seize it.  Turkey has long been ripe for a revolution. It wanted only chiefs
and directors.  In time of war, ten thousand Frenchmen landed in the Dardanelles would be masters
of Constantinople, and perhaps of the Empire.  In time of peace, four hundred bold and well-informed
men may produce the same effect.  Besides, with some temporary cession of a couple of provinces
to each of the Imperial Courts, and with the temporary present of an island to Great Britain,
everything may be settled 'pro tempore', and a Joseph Bonaparte be permitted to reign at Constantinople,
as a Napoleon does at Paris."

That the Minister made use of this language I can take upon me to affirm; but whether purposely
or unintentionally, whether to give a high opinion of his plans or to impose upon his company,
I will not and cannot assert.

On the subject of this numerous suite of Brune, Markof is said to have obtained several conferences
with Talleyrand and several audiences of Bonaparte, in which representations, as just as energetic,
were made, which, however, did not alter the intent of our Government or increase the favour
of the Russian Ambassador at the Court of St. Cloud.  But it proved that our schemes of subversion
are suspected, and that our agents of overthrow would be watched and their manoeuvres inspected.

Count Italinski, the Russian Ambassador to the Ottoman Porte, is one of those noblemen who
unite rank and fortune, talents and modesty, honour and patriotism, wealth and liberality.
His personal character and his individual virtues made him, therefore, more esteemed and revered
by the members of the Divan, than the high station he occupied, and the powerful Prince he
represented, made him feared or respected.  His warnings had created prejudices against Brune
which he found difficult to remove. To revenge himself in his old way, our Ambassador inserted
several paragraphs in the Moniteur and in our other papers, in which Count Italinski was libelled,
and his transactions or views calumniated.

After his first audience with the Grand Seignior, Brune complained bitterly, of not having
learned the Turkish language, and of being under the necessity, therefore, of using interpreters,
to whom he ascribed the renewed obstacles he encountered in every step he took, while his hotel
was continually surrounded with spies, and the persons of his suite followed everywhere like
criminals when they went out.  Even the valuable presents he carried with him, amounting in
value to twenty-four millions of livres--were but indifferently received, the acceptors, seeming
to suspect the object and the honesty of the donor.

In proportion as our politics became embroiled with those of Russia, the post of Brune became
of more importance; but the obstacles thrown in his way augmented daily, and he was forced
to avow that Russia and England had greater influence and more credit than the French Republic
and its chief.  When Bonaparte was proclaimed an Emperor of the French, Brune expected that
his acknowledgment as such at Constantinople would be a mere matter of course and announced
officially on the day he presented a copy of his new credentials.  Here again he was disappointed,
and therefore demanded his recall from a place where there was no probability, under the present
circumstances, of either exciting the subjects to revolt, of deluding the Prince into submission,
or seducing Ministers who, in pocketing his bribes, forgot for what they were given.

It was then that Bonaparte sent Joubert with a letter in his own handwriting, to be delivered
into the hands of the Grand Seignior himself.  This Joubert is a foundling, and, was from his
youth destined and educated to be one of the secret agents of our secret diplomacy. You already,
perhaps, have heard that our Government selects yearly a number of young foundlings or orphans,
whom it causes to be brought up in foreign countries at its expense, so as to learn the language
as natives of the nation, where, when grown up, they are chiefly to be employed. Joubert had
been educated under the inspection of our consuls at Smyrna, and, when he assumes the dress
of a Turk, from his accent and manners even the Mussulmans mistake him for one of their own
creed and of their country.  He was introduced to Bonaparte in 1797, and accompanied him to
Egypt, where his services were of the greatest utility to the army.  He is now a kind of undersecretary
in the office of our secret diplomacy, and a member of the Legion of Honour.  Should ever Joseph
Bonaparte be an Emperor or Sultan of the East, Joubert will certainly be his Grand Vizier.
There is another Joubert (with whom you must not confound him), who was; also a kind of Dragoman
at Constantinople some years ago, and who is still somewhere on a secret mission in the East
Indies.

Joubert's arrival at Constantinople excited both curiosity among the people and suspicion among
the Ministry.  There is no example in the Ottoman history of a chief of a Christian nation
having written to the Sultan by a private messenger, or of His Highness having condescended
to receive the letter from the bearer, or to converse with him.  The Grand Vizier demanded
a copy of Bonaparte's letter, before an audience could be granted.  This was refused by Joubert;
and as Brune threatened to quit the capital of Turkey if any longer delay were experienced,
the letter was delivered in a garden near Constantinople, where the Sultan met Bonaparte's
agent, as if by chance, who, it seems, lost all courage and presence of mind, and did not utter
four words, to which no answer was given.

This impertinent intrigue, and this novel diplomacy, therefore, totally miscarried, to the
great shame and greater disappointment of the schemers and contrivers.  I must, however, do
Talleyrand the justice to say that he never approved of it, and even foretold the issue to
his intimate friends.  It was entirely the whim and invention of Bonaparte himself, upon a
suggestion of Brune, who was far from being so well acquainted with the spirit and policy of
the Divan as he had been with the genius and plots of Jacobinism.  Not rebuked, however, Joubert
was ordered away a second time with a second letter, and, after an absence of four months,
returned again as he went, less satisfied with the second than with his first journey.

In these trips to Turkey, he had always for travelling companions some of our emissaries to
Austria, Hungary, and in particular to Servia, where the insurgents were assisted by our councils,
and even guided by some of our officers.  The principal aide-de-camp of Czerni George, the
Servian chieftain, is one Saint Martin, formerly a captain in our artillery, afterwards an
officer of engineers in the Russian service, and finally a volunteer in the army of Conde.
He and three other officers of artillery were, under fictitious names, sent by our Government,
during the spring of last year, to the camp of the insurgents.  They pretended to be of the
Grecian religion, and formerly Russian officers, and were immediately employed.  Saint Martin
has gained great influence over Czerni George, and directs both his political councils and
military operations.  Besides the individuals left behind by Joubert; it is said that upwards
of one hundred persons of Brune's suite have been ordered for the same destination.  You see
how great the activity of our Government is, and that nothing is thought unworthy of its vigilance
or its machinations. In the staff of Paswan Oglou, six of my countrymen have been serving ever
since 1796, always in the pay of our Government.

It was much against the inclination and interest of our Emperor that his Ambassador at Constantinople
should leave the field of battle there to the representatives of Russia, Austria, and England.
But his dignity was at stake.  After many threats to deprive the Sultan of the honour of his
presence, and even after setting out once for some leagues on his return, Brune, observing
that these marches and countermarches excited more mirth than terror, at last fixed a day,
when, finally, either Bonaparte must be acknowledged by the Divan as an Emperor of the French,
or his departure would take place.  On that day he, indeed, began his retreat, but, under different
pretexts, be again stopped, sent couriers to his secretaries, waited for their return, and
sent new couriers again,--but all in vain, the Divan continued refractory.

At his first audience after his return, the reception Bonaparte gave him was not very cordial.
He demanded active employment, in case of a continental war, either in Italy or in Germany,
but received neither. When our army of England was already on its march towards the Rhine,
and Bonaparte returned here, Brune was ordered to take command on the coast, and to organize
there an army of observation, destined to succour Holland in case of an invasion, or to invade
England should a favourable occasion present itself.  The fact is, he was charged to intrigue
rather than to fight; and were Napoleon able to force upon Austria another Peace of Luneville,
Brune would probably be the plenipotentiary that would ask your acceptance of another Peace
of Amiens.  It is here a general belief that his present command signifies another pacific
overture from Bonaparte before your Parliament meets, or, at least, before the New Year.  Remember
that our hero is more to be dreaded as a Philip than as an Alexander.

General Brune has bought landed property for nine millions of livres--and has, in different
funds, placed ready money to the same amount.  His own and his wife's diamonds are valued by
him at three millions; and when he has any parties to dinner, he exhibits them with great complaisance
as presents forced upon him during his campaign in Switzerland and Holland, for the protection
he gave the inhabitants.  He is now so vain of his wealth and proud of his rank, that he not
only disregards all former acquaintances, but denies his own brothers and sisters,--telling
them frankly that the Fieldmarshal Brune can have no shoemaker for a brother, nor a sister
married to a chandler; that he knows of no parents, and of no relatives, being the maker of
his own fortune, and of what he is; that his children will look no further back for ancestry
than their father. One of his first cousins, a postilion, who insisted, rather obstinately,
on his family alliance, was recommended by Brune to his friend Fouche, who sent him on a voyage
of discovery to Cayenne, from which he probably will not return very soon.

LETTER XL.

PARIS, September, 1805.

My LORD:--Madame de C------n is now one of our most fashionable ladies. Once in the week she
has a grand tea-party; once in a fortnight a grand dinner; and once in the month a grand ball.
Foreign gentlemen are particularly well received at her house, which, of course, is much frequented
by them.  As you intend to visit this country after a peace, it may be of some service to you
not to be unacquainted with the portrait of a lady whose invitation to see the original you
may depend upon the day after your arrival.

Madame de C----n is the widow of the great and useless traveller, Comte de C----n, to whom
his relatives pretend that she was never married. Upon his death-bed he acknowledged her, however,
for his wife, and left her mistress of a fortune of three hundred thousand livres a year. The
first four years of her widowhood she passed in lawsuits before the tribunals, where the plaintiffs
could not prove that she was unmarried, nor she herself that she was married.  But Madame Napoleon
Bonaparte, for a small douceur, speaking in her favour, the consciences of the juries, and
the understanding of the judges, were all convinced at once that she had been the lawful wife,
and was the lawful heiress, of Comte de C----n, who had no children, or nearer relatives than
third cousins.

Comte de C----n was travelling in the East Indies when the Revolution broke out.  His occupation
there was a very innocent one; he drew countenances, being one of the most enthusiastic sectaries
of Lavater, and modestly called himself the first physiognomist in the world. Indeed, he had
been at least the most laborious one; for he left behind him a collection of six thousand two
hundred portraits, drawn by himself in the four quarters of the world, during a period of thirty
years.

He never engaged a servant, nor dealt with a tradesman, whose physiognomy had not been examined
by him.  In his travels he preferred the worst accommodation in a house where he approved of
the countenance of the host, to the best where the traits or lines of the landlord's face were
irregular, or did not coincide with his ideas of physiognomical propriety.  The cut of a face,
its expression, the length of the nose, the width or smallness of the mouth, the form of the
eyelids or of the ears, the colour or thickness of the hair, with the shape and tout ensemble
of the head, were always minutely considered and discussed before he entered into any agreement,
on any subject, with any individual whatever.  Whatever recommendations, or whatever attestations
were produced, if they did not correspond with his own physiognomical remarks and calculations,
they were disregarded; while a person whose physiognomy pleased him required no other introduction
to obtain his confidence. Whether he thought himself wiser than his forefathers, he certainly
did not grow richer than they were.  Charlatans who imposed upon his credulity and impostors
who flattered his mania, servants who robbed him and mistresses who deceived him, proved that
if his knowledge of physiognomy was great, it was by no means infallible.  At his death, of
the fortune left him by his parents only the half remained.

His friends often amused themselves at the expense of his foibles. When he prepared for a journey
to the East, one of them recommended him a servant, upon whose fidelity he could depend.  After
examining with minute scrupulosity the head of the person, he wrote: "My friend, I accept your
valuable present.  From calculations, which never deceive me, Manville (the servant's name)
possesses, with the fidelity of a dog, the intrepidity of the lion.  Chastity itself is painted
on his front, modesty in his looks, temperance on his cheek, and his mouth and nose bespeak
honesty itself."  Shortly after the Count had landed at Pondicherry, Mauville, who was a girl,
died, in a condition which showed that chastity had not been the divinity to whom she had chiefly
sacrificed.  In her trunk were found several trinkets belonging to her master, which she honestly
had appropriated to herself.  His miscalculation on this subject the Count could not but avow;
he added, however, that it was the entire fault of his friend, who had duped him with regard
to the sex.

Madame de C----n was, on account of her physiognomy, purchased by her late husband, then travelling
in Turkey, from a merchant of Circassian slaves, when she was under seven years of age, and
sent for her education to a relative of the Count, an Abbess of a convent in Languedoc.  On
his return from Turkey, some years afterwards, he took her under his own care, and she accompanied
him all over Asia, and returned first to France in 1796, where her husband's name was upon
the list of emigrants, though he had not been in Europe for ten years before the Revolution.

However, by some pecuniary arrangements with Barras, he recovered his property, which he did
not long enjoy, for he died in 1798.  The suitors of Madame de C----n, mistress of a large
fortune, with some remnants of beauty and elegance of manners, have been numerous, and among
them several Senators and generals, and even the Minister Chaptal.  But she has politely declined
all their offers, preferring her liberty and the undisturbed right of following her own inclination
to the inconvenient ties of Hymen.  A gentleman, whom she calls, and who passes for, her brother,
Chevalier de M de T----, a Knight of Malta, assists her in doing the honours of her house,
and is considered as her favourite lover; though report and the scandalous chronicle say that
she bestows her favours on every person who wishes to bestow on her his name, and that, therefore,
her gallants are at least as numerous as her suitors.

Such is the true statement of the past, as well as the present, with regard to Madame de C----n.
She relates, however, a different story. She says that she is the daughter of the Marquis de
M de T-----, of a Languedoc family; that she sailed, when a child, with her mother in a felucca
from Nice to Malta, there to visit her brother; was captured by an Algerine pilot, separated
from her mother, and carried to Constantinople by a merchant of slaves; there she was purchased
by Comte de C----n, who restored her to her family, and whom, therefore, notwithstanding the
difference of their ages, she married from gratitude. This pretty, romantic story is ordered
in our Court circles to be officially believed; and, of course, is believed by nobody, not
even by the Emperor and Empress themselves, who would not give her the place of a lady-in-waiting,
though her request was accompanied with a valuable diamond to the latter.  The present was
kept, but the offer declined.

All the members of the Bonaparte family, female as well as male, honour her house with their
visits and with the acceptance of her invitations; and it is, therefore, among our fashionables,
the 'haut ton' to be of the society and circle of Madame de C----n.

Last February, Madame de P----t (the wife of Comte de P----t, a relative, by her husband's
side, of Madame de C----n, and who by the Revolution lost all their property, and now live
with her as companions) was brought to bed of a son; the child was baptized by the Cardinal
de Belloy, and Madame Joseph and Prince Louis Bonaparte stood sponsors. This occurrence was
celebrated with great pomp, and a fete was given to nearly one hundred and fifty per sons of
both sexes,--as usual, a mixture of ci-devant nobles and of ci-devant sans-culottes; of rank
and meanness; of upstart wealth and beggared dignity.

What that day struck me most was the audacity of the Senator Villetard in teasing and insulting
the old Cardinal de Belloy with his impertinent conversation and affected piety.  This Villetard
was, before the Revolution, a journeyman barber, and was released in 1789 by the mob from the
prison of the Chatelet, where he was confined for theft.  In 1791 his patriotism was so well
known in the Department of Yonne, that he was deputed by the Jacobins there to the Jacobins
of the capital with an address, encouraging and advising the deposition of Louis XVI.; and
in 1792 he was chosen a member of the National Convention, where the most sanguinary and most
violent of the factions were always certain to reckon him in the number of their adherents.

In December, 1797, when an insurrection, prepared by Joseph Bonaparte at Rome, deprived the
late revered pontiff both of his sovereignty and liberty, Villetard was sent by the Jacobin
and atheistical party of the Directory to Loretto, to seize and carry off the celebrated Madonna.
In the execution of this commission he displayed a conduct worthy the littleness of his genius
and the criminality of his mind.  The wooden image of the Holy Virgin, a black gown said to
have appertained to her, together with three broken china plates, which the Roman Catholic
faithful have for ages believed to have been used by her, were presented by him to the Directory,
with a cruelly scandalous show, accompanied by a horribly blasphemous letter.  He passed the
next night, after he had perpetrated this sacrilege, with two prostitutes, in the chapel of
the Holy Virgin; and, on the next morning, placed one of them, naked, on the pedestal where
the statue of the Virgin had formerly stood, and ordered all the devotees at Loretto, and two
leagues round, to prostrate themselves before her.  This shocking command occasioned the premature
death of fifteen ladies, two of whom, who were nuns, died on the spot on beholding the horrid
outrage; and many more were deprived of their reason.  How barbarously unfeeling must that
wretch be who, in bereaving the religious, the pious, and the conscientious of their consolation
and hope, adds the tormenting reproach of apostasy, by forcing virtue upon its knees to bow
before what it knows to be guilt and infamy.

A traitor to his associates as to his God, it was he who, in November, 1799, presented at St.
Cloud the decree which excluded all those who opposed Bonaparte's authority from the Council
of Five Hundred, and appointed the two committees which made him a First Consul.  In reward
for this act of treachery, he was nominated to a place in the Conservative Senate.  He has
now ranked himself among our modern saints, goes regularly to Mass and confesses; has made
a brother of his, who was a drummer, an Abbe; and his assiduity about the Cardinal was probably
with a view to obtain advancement for this edifying priest.

The Cardinal de Belloy is now ninety-six years of age, being born in 1709, and has been a Bishop
for fifty-three years, but, during the Revolution, was proscribed, with all other prelates.
He remained, however, in France, where his age saved him from the guillotine, but not from
being reduced to the greatest want.  A descendant of a noble family, and possessing an unpolluted
character, Bonaparte fixed upon him as one of the pillars for the reestablishment of the Catholic
worship, made him an Archbishop of Paris, and procured him the rank of a Cardinal from Rome.
But he is now in his second childhood, entirely directed by his grand vicaries, Malaret, De
Mons, and Legeas, who are in the pay of, and absolutely devoted to, Bonaparte.  An innocent
instrument in their hands, of those impious compliments pronounced by him to the Emperor and
the Empress, he did not, perhaps, even understand the meaning.  From such a man the vile and
artful Villetard might extort any promise.  I observed, however, with pleasure, that he was
watched by the grand vicar, Malaret, who seldom loses sight of His Eminence.

These two so opposite characters--I mean De Belloy and Villetard--are already speaking evidences
of the composition of the society at Madame de C----n's.  But I will tell you something still
more striking.  This lady is famous for her elegant services of plate, as much as for her delicate
taste in entertaining her parties.  After the supper on this night, eleven silver and four
gold plates, besides numerous silver and gold spoons, forks, etc., were missed.  She informed
Fouche of her loss, who had her house surrounded by spies, with orders not to let any servant
pass without undergoing a strict search.  The first gentleman who called for his carriage was
His Excellency the Counsellor of State and grand officer of the Legion of Honour, Treilhard.
His servants were stopped and the cause explained.  They willingly, and against the protest
of their master, suffered themselves to be searched.  Nothing was found upon them; but the
police agents, observing the full-dress hat of their master rather bulky under his arm, took
the liberty to look into it, where they found one of Madame de C----n's gold plates and two
of her spoons.  His Excellency immediately ordered his servants to be arrested, for having
concealed their theft there.  Fouche, however, when called out, advised his friend to forgive
them for misplacing them, as the less said on the subject the better.  When Madame de C----n
heard of this discovery, she asked Fouche to recall his order or to alter it.  "A repetition
of such misplacings in the hats or in the pockets of the masters," said she, "would injure
the reputation of my house and company."  She never recovered the remainder of her loss, and
that she might not be exposed in future to the same occurrences, she bought two services of
china the following day, to be used when she had mixed society.

Treilhard had, before the Revolution, the reputation of being an honest man and an able advocate;
but has since joined the criminals of all factions, being an accomplice in their guilt and
a sharer of their spoils.  In the convention, he voted for the death of Louis XVI. and pursued
without mercy the unfortunate Marie Antoinette to the scaffold. During his missions in the
departments, wherever he went the guillotine was erected and blood flowed in streams.  He was,
nevertheless, accused by Robespierre of moderatism.  At Lille, in 1797, and at Rastadt, in
1798, he negotiated as a plenipotentiary with the representatives of Princes, and in 1799 corresponded
as a director with Emperors and Kings, to whom he wrote as his great and dear friends.  He
is now a Counsellor of State, in the section of legislation, and enjoys a fortune of several
millions of livres, arising from estates in the country, and from leases in the capital.  As
this accident at Madame de C----n's soon became public, his friends gave out that he had of
late been exceedingly absent, and, from absence of mind, puts everything he can lay hold of
into his pocket.  He is not a favourite with Madame Bonaparte, and she asked her husband to
dismiss and disgrace him for an act so disgraceful to a grand officer of the Legion of Honour,
but was answered, "Were I to turn away all the thieves and rogues that encompass me I should
soon cease to reign.  I despise them, but I must employ them."

It is whispered that the police have discovered another of Madame de Cn's lost gold plates
at a pawnbroker's, where it had been pledged by the wife of another Counsellor of State, Francois
de Nantes.

This I give you merely as a report!  though the fact is, that Madame Francois is very fond
of gambling, but very unfortunate; and she, with other of our fashionable ladies, has more
than once resorted to her charms for the payment of her gambling debts.

