     Mr. Crittenden resumed, in a review of the evidence. He briefly
     reviewed his own remarks of yesterday, and then proceeded to
     quote from the letters of Robertson, while so endeavoring to
     benefit the children of South Carolina, had never informed the
     commission of his plans up to December 30th. One point Mr.
     Robertson had made was that Ivison, Blakeman & Co. were
     disappointed and for that reason they had made an attack upon
     him. This, Mr. Crittenden said, was too thin, as the publishers
     referred to were not that kind of men. He then concluded by
     saying that he hoped the time had come when the people of South
     Carolina would show to the world that the time had passed when
     the adventurers could come from other portions of the country,
     and with professions of love for the negroes and children of the
     State, take advantage of their own pockets. The colored people
     had learned better sense than to trust such people any longer.

     Curtis, who was acting speaker, here asked what construction the
     House placed on Act 2, section 16 of the constitution, which
     relates to the number of votes required to expel a member, from
     the floor. Mr. Orr held that the Supreme Court had decided that
     two-thirds of the number present were competent to expel. Some
     one else claimed that it required two-thirds of all the members
     on roll. The speaker here cited a case in the House Journals in
     which it was decided that two-thirds of the members present was
     sufficient. Mr. Brayton stated that two-thirds of the House and
     two-thirds of the Senate were necessary to impeach a judge, and
     he thought that as much consideration should be shown to the
     members of the House. In justice to themselves they ought to
     insist upon the passage of the following resolution:

     Resolved, that it is the sense of this House that in order to
     expel a member a two-thirds vote of all the members elected is
     required.

     Freeman, of Charleston, spoke against the resolution, taking the
     same ground as that held by Mr. Orr.

     Bampfield rose to a point of order that it was the duty of the
     chair to decide. If necessary an appeal could be had.

     The chair stated that if he decided it would be in favor of the
     view that it required two-thirds of the members present.

     Freeman thought it very strange that no defense had been offered
     by the friends of the accused, and proposed to amend Brayton's
     resolution by striking out "elected" and inserting "present."

     Mr. Orr said that no resolution of ruling of the chair was
     necessary as they had the decision of the Supreme Court on the
     matter, and that was their law. Richardson's Supreme Court
     Reports, volume 4, has already decided this question, and he
     didn't see the use of construing the law when it was already
     construed by such authority.

     Chancellor Johnson stated that the matter was purely a
     constitutional question, and he quoted from the Constitution to
     show that the House had the right to decide all such questions,
     for itself.

     On motion the resolution of Mr. Brayton was laid on the table.

     Hirsch then called for a ruling from the chair, and the chair
     decided that it would require two-thirds of the members present.
     The Saint here became very much agitated, and requested that he
     be allowed to speak in his own behalf, as no one else saw fit to
     take up his cause. The request was granted, and he then spoke as
     follows:

     Gentlemen of the House of Representatives: I will in the outset
     simply draw your attention to the fact that my accuser has never
     put his foot on the soil of South Carolina. If the House will not
     defend me the courts will. No witnesses have been called here,
     and when I asked you for your protection I am taunted with the
     fact that I have offered no defence. If I had been accused in a
     trial justice's court I would have had the proofs, and would have
     the right to meet my accuser face to face. But here, when my
     reputation and the reputation of my innocent children are at
     stake, I am proved beyond doubt, and by respectable witnesses, to
     be a wilful falsifier and perverter of the truth. Take notice of
     this telegram from an honorable house, Messrs. Armstrong,
     Scribner & Co.: "We have heard threats that the books chosen
     shall not succeed, and that you shall be ruined." This is not the
     first time that Ivison, Blakeman & Co., have made a similar fight
     to this in the North. They have done so hundreds of times. I ask
     the patience of the House, which has my future weal or woe in
     their hands, to hear me yet further. Strike if you will but for
     Heaven's sake hear me. Another curious phase of this matter is
     that the house of Ivison, Blakeman & Co., when it suits their
     convenience, do not hesitate to publish confidential
     communications. And I would say here that a member of this House
     has done the same thing, viz, has divulged to the press what took
     place in the committee room, for his own ends.

     Mr. Orr here rose and said that if Robertson referred to him he
     told a malicious falsehood, and that he would get his pay for it.

     Robertson said he had no doubt he would get paid for it; that he
     had not mentioned Orr's name, but if he saw fit to appropriate
     the remark he could not help it.

     The speaker here interrupted, and put an end to the controversy.

     Robertson continued: That he had married into one of the best
     families of the State, and that his blood was mingled with
     theirs, &c.

     Holland, a coal-black representative, for what purpose or
     actuated by what impulse must ever remain a mystery, here
     interrupted, and asked if Robertson referred to him. Mr.
     Robertson said no, he did not refer to him. This produced a roar
     of laughter all over the House which the speaker had great
     difficulty in suppressing.

     Robertson continued: I have written some foolish things, it is
     true, but I am done with Cathcart and Ivison, Blakeman & Co.
     Remember the words of the Holy Writ: "Judge not that ye be not
     judged." I will now refer to the letter which the gentleman from
     Greenville rolled as a sweet morsel under his tongue yesterday.
     That letter was confidential, and you must remember that all this
     trouble is made up out of confidential letters. Which of you
     would be willing to have his confidential letters published?
     Concerning Guerad, I certainly did offer to help him get a
     situation, as he was worthy and needy. I was asked by him and
     endeavored to get it for him; and who would not do the same? Mr.
     Robertson then referred to his letter in The News and Courier,
     which, he said, the publishers of the paper had done him the
     justice to publish, and which contained a full account of the
     whole matter in plain terms, without any attempt to conceal or
     pervert the facts.

     Mr. Robertson's time here expired, but on motion of Whipper he
     was allowed fifteen minutes longer. He continued: Recollect that
     two constructions can be placed upon this matter. One will ruin
     me and the other will not. Choose between them.

     Hamilton interrupted. What particular portion of the letters do
     you deny?

     Robertson. What I object to in this investigation is that copies
     of letters are given here purporting to be mine, when I cannot
     tell whether they are mine or not. Gentlemen, what can I say
     more? I built the first schoolhouse that was ever built in my
     district, and supported the first teacher we had to teach the
     colored children in it. And now, gentlemen for this I am to be
     expelled; expelled because I have labored for the good of the
     children of the State; because in my anxiety I wrote letters
     which the secretary of the commission ought to have written
     himself. Gentlemen I am done. "Let him that is without sin among
     you cast the first stone."

     Hamilton. Keep down then, it is where you belong, and if you had
     your deserts you ought to be down and out of the House. Hamilton
     then went on, saying that he proposed to divest himself of all
     personal feelings. He proposed to speak as he thought the people
     would have him speak--justly. The first ground that he took
     against Robertson was that he believed him guilty and thought
     that every man in South Carolina believed the same and I will say
     as he says, "Out of thy mouth thou shalt be convicted." No
     private confidential letters could benefit the children of the
     State; they benefit only the man who writes them. These letters
     undoubtedly were written to benefit himself, not the children. I
     express the sentiment of my people when I say that he is guilty
     of murder, not of manslaughter. This man and such as he have
     done an immense harm, and it is time we were getting rid of them.
     We can't hold that class of men and be successful in politics. It
     is with pain that I utter what I do. If this were some other
     occasion, and the gentleman was from some other county, I ... of
     ... Cathcart. Hayne then went into a review of the testimony,
     concluding with the remark that as to the expulsion of Mr.
     Robertson bringing disgrace upon his children he did not deny; it
     was mournful that the sins of the fathers should be visited upon
     their children.

     Black ... Davis then got up, and, as usual, talked a great deal
     and said very little. The general tenor of the harangue, however,
     was that if they expelled Robertson they would establish a
     precedent that would work harm for the party. They would be
     opening a door that they might not be able to shut when they
     wanted to. That Republican material was scarce, and if they
     punished this man it would discourage other white carpet-baggers
     from coming down and help lead the party in this State.

     Freeman of Charleston, then followed in a strong speech against
     Robertson. He said that the question was one of peculiar
     significance. It was whether the colored men of the State were
     able to lead themselves, and capable of upholding their
     self-respect. He had remained silent until he had heard the
     defence entirely exhausted, and he was forced to say that the
     accused had in his defence done nothing but make an admission
     that the charges were true. He then read a letter of Robertson's
     dated June 2d. This, he said, was a confidential letter, and no
     public servant had the right to write such confidential letters
     to put money in their own pockets. If he (Robertson) knew that it
     was the character of these Northern firms to defraud the people
     of the different States, as he says he did, then why did he go to
     them? If he knew that they were swindlers, why did he go to them
     to strike a bargain for the State. Robertson had cast an insult
     upon the colored men that would not be tolerated by any other
     race upon the face of the globe. He had flung out to the world
     the insinuation--nay, the assertion--that the colored members of
     the Legislature were for sale on every question. He hoped that
     the colored members would assert their self-respect and hurl back
     the charge with scorn, and show to the world that they had some
     sense of honor, and will not be duped by unprincipled
     carpet-baggers any longer.

     Whipper then followed in a harangue in support of Robertson,
     taking the old ground that the letters were not certified to,
     and incompetent as testimony, &c., and wound up with a customary
     slash at The News and Courier.

     Mr. Brayton, of Aiken, followed Whipper in a strong technical
     argument in support of Robertson, in which he claimed that the
     form of trial was illegal, and the testimony was insufficient and
     ex parte; not touching upon the guilt or innocence of Robertson
     at all.

     The accusers and defenders had exhausted their rhetoric and the
     patience of their audience and themselves, so a vote was taken on
     the question of expulsion, and resulted as follows--56 yeas and
     25 nays. A few moments later and the hall was silent and in
     darkness.

     Nesbit and Pinckney, however, it seems, hadn't had enough of the
     fight inside, but went to abusing each other about the course
     they had pursued. Pinckney voted for expulsion and Nesbit against
     it, and after some words they went to bruising each other in a
     way that must have shocked the effigy of the father of their
     country, around whose bronze form they shinned so mildly. The
     entertainment broke up, however, before the gladiators had
     entirely demolished each other.

     The discussion of the Robertson matter in the House, if it has
     done nothing else, has very clearly demonstrated that the
     majority of the colored people of the State are tired of their
     carpet-bagger leaders, and do not propose to be led by them any
     longer.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] These articles were arranged by Monroe N. Work.

BOOK REVIEWS

     Fifty Years in the Gospel Ministry. By THEOPHILUS GOULD
     STEWARD. The African Methodist Episcopal Book Concern, 631 Pine
     Street, Philadelphia, 1922. Pp. 520.

This is an autobiography covering the period from 1864 to 1914. It carries an introduction
by Dr. Reverdy C. Ransom, the editor of the African Methodist Episcopal Church Review. Inasmuch
as it is the record of a distinguished minister in one of the leading Negro denominations,
it throws much light on this period, not only in ecclesiastical affairs but in matters touching
the life and development of this race during that period. This is apparent to one observing
that the book covers the author's twenty-seven years in the pastorate, sixteen years as a chaplain
in the United States army, seven years as a professor in Wilberforce University, two of his
trips to Europe and one to Mexico. The book is illustrated, but it has no index.

Taking up the work of the General Conference of 1864, the author says much to give the reader
an insight into the characters and efforts of the leading churchmen of his denomination at
that time. Among those passing in review are Bishops Quinn, Payne, and Nazrey, and others like
H. M. Turner and Alexander W. Wayman who later became bishops of that denomination. Then follows
his trip South, when the author had the opportunity to participate in the early efforts for
the uplift of the freedmen, serving in Georgia and in South Carolina. He then tells how he
arose to a position of usefulness and later served larger groups of communicants in Philadelphia
and the District of Columbia. Referring to his record as a chaplain in the United States army,
the author shows a larger acquaintance with the leading Negro statesmen through whom he obtained
the position. The account of his services in this capacity, both in this country and abroad,
and especially in the Philippine Islands, sets forth information, not only as to what that
portion of the world was doing, but the reaction of this educated Negro to this panorama. Other
interesting experiences appear in the account of his extensive travels.

The value of the book is incalculable when one takes into consideration the dearth of such
literature bearing on Negroes. This work takes rank with the recent volume of Bishop Coppin
entitled Unwritten History, for certainly there are to be found therein interesting romances
taken from the life of the Negro and recorded by one of the race in the manner in which these
things were impressed upon him and found expression in his mind. This is the sort of literature
for which the public has patiently waited and it is devoutly to be desired that other churchmen
may find time to leave a written record like these of Bishop Coppin and Chaplain Steward. For
anyone desirous of studying the history of the Negro in its various ramifications, such works
are indispensable. Pp. 197.

This is a revised edition of Professor Brawley's work which appeared in 1918. It follows the
general outline of the first edition and sets forth additional facts but not sufficient to
justify this claim to revision. The work is biographical, largely devoted to the narrative
of the careers of Phyllis Wheatley, Paul Laurence Dunbar, Charles W. Chesnutt, W. E. B. Dubois,
William Stanley Braithwaite, Frederick Douglass, Booker Washington, Henry O. Tanner, Meta Warrick
Fuller, and Charles S. Gilpin. The unsatisfactory short sketch of Gilpin constitutes the best
claim of the work to that of a revised edition.

While this work does not show by historic or philosophical development the evolution of the
Negro mind as expressed in the achievements of the race in literature and art, it has some
value. To have a publisher place before the public the sketches of so many prominent Negroes
who might otherwise remain unknown to the public is a service to be appreciated. The world
has too long considered the Negro a human machine restricted to drudgery. Any successful effort,
therefore, to bring before the public from time to time the achievements of worthy Negroes,
although it may be a repetition of what may be well known to the better informed few, must
be welcomed as an undertaking having a direct bearing on popularizing the record of a neglected
seventh of the population of the world.

Let us hope, however, that in the near future some other author, grasping more correctly the
needs of the time, may set forth in literary form the interesting story of how history has
been influenced by the Negro during the various stages of the world's progress and especially
how the Negro of today functions efficiently in the life of Europe and America. The public
will welcome too a work treating the eloquent appeals of Negro orators, the beautiful poetry
voicing the strivings of this oppressed group, and its peculiar philosophy of life constructed
while enduring the ordeal of racial proscription.

     The Free Negro in Maryland, 1634-1860. By JAMES M. WRIGHT.
     Longmans, Green and Company, New York; P. S. King and Son, Ltd.,
     London, 1921. Pp. 362.

This is a study in a neglected field of American history. Hitherto very little has been done
to inform the world as to the actual contribution of the free Negro prior to the Civil War.
Few persons realize that there were half a million such Negroes in the United States at that
time. It is a mistake, therefore, to consider this better selected group of the race so insignificant
as not to influence the history of the communities in which they lived. A number of histories
have been written since the Civil War, however, with a view to meeting this need for a treatment
of this neglected group. There have appeared John H. Russell's Free Negro in Virginia and Brackett's
The Negro in Maryland. But unfortunately such works have been too rigidly restricted to the
discussion of the Negro's legal, social, and religious status as determined by the laws enacted
for these purposes in the South rather than to the study of the free Negro himself. As it is
well known that many of these laws were never enforced, we are still at sea as to what the
free Negro actually was and what he was doing.

While Professor Wright has not altogether succeeded in meeting the requirements for this more
scientific study of the free Negro, he has done his task much better than those who have hitherto
invaded this field. In addition to covering the ground of other such studies he has undertaken
to give the historic background and by statistical method he has presented valuable information
as to the apprenticeship of Negro children, the occupations and wages of free Negroes, their
acquisition of property, their education and their religious strivings.

In his long-drawn-out conclusion he does not seem to have an altogether favorable impression
as to the rôle played by the free Negro in the State of Maryland. He shows that the Negro was
led to despise himself in keeping with the policy of regarding the white man as the superior
and the Negro as the inferior. Professor Wright says, however, that the perpetuation of such
a handicap for the most needy part of the population was probably not sound social policy.
Upon the whites the effects were first to cause at least a formal realization of race solidarity,
and secondly, to intensify class lines within the ranks, although not to define the "poor whites"
as rigidly as in certain of the sister slave States. On the whole, Professor Wright believes
that the free Negro was an asset to the State, but one laden with many of the characteristics
of a liability. "The managers of the corporate body to which he (the Negro) belonged," says
the writer, "would have been relieved, could they have written him as an item off their accounts.
Nevertheless the sympathetic personal attachment of many whites to individual negro servants,
whether slave or free, was permanent." Thus ends an informing book with several misconceptions,
but nevertheless fraught with valuable facts.

     Batouala. By RENÉ MARAN. Albin Michel, Editor. Paris, 1921. Pp.
     189.

This is a novel which was awarded the Goncourt prize in 1921. Inasmuch as it is socially historical,
it contains many facts throwing light on the conditions of Africa. Born on the Island of Martinique
where the conditions of colonial rule were different from those obtaining in Africa, the scenes
of which inspired this indictment of the white man's civilization, René Maran doubtless found
the situation there so revolting that it evoked from him this work. Without concealing the
faults of the natives, Maran discusses the robber concession companies in Africa, forced labor,
high taxes and exorbitant prices for goods sold to the natives. Inasmuch as there were no railroads
or "pack animals," the Negroes themselves were impressed into a "pack-man system" which together
with the Tsetse fly has worked havoc in Africa. The author maintains that this "pack carrying"
has caused the death of more than one million Negroes and cites as evidence that in one town
the blacks rebelled against this portage service because it was considered better to die than
to undergo such a hardship. The book is intended to emphasize the importance of remedying these
abuses and suggests as the proper reform that the concessions granted these private companies
should be withdrawn and that nature should be given the opportunity to repair the damage done
by white men.

This is a stirring note from a man of African blood speaking for Africa from the point of view
of the native himself. It is a distinct contribution in that we have a different view from
that appearing in the works of white men who have travelled through that continent, seeing
it from the outside and then only "through a glass darkly." The cause of truth in that quarter
is now fortunate in having there a number of intelligent Africans who, after having been trained
in the mission schools and in the best universities of Europe and America, are now beginning
to give the other phase of the social, economic, and political questions in Africa. Many of
the conditions which have long obtained in that continent have continued for the reason that
persons on the outside who might have been struck with holy horror, had such been known, have
never learned and, therefore, can hardly realize that such appalling conditions exist. For
this valuable contribution, not only from the literary point of view, but from that of the
investigator of social and economic problems, the public must feel indebted to René Maran.

NOTES

The first Spring Conference of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History was
held in the city of New York on April 3d and 4th. There was a preliminary mass meeting on Sunday,
the 2d, at the Mother A. M. E. Zion Church, where Mr. James F. Morton, Prof. John R. Hawkins,
and Dr. C. G. Woodson delivered addresses which were enthusiastically received.

On Monday and Tuesday, the 3d and 4th, when the actual meeting began, a larger number of persons
from afar were present. The day sessions were held at the 135th Street Branch Library where,
on Tuesday morning, Dr. George E. Haynes, Secretary of the Race Commission of the Federal Council
of the Churches of Christ, opened the discussion of the question "Why one race should know
the other one." Other persons participating in the discussion and giving additional information
as to the bright prospects for the cooperation of the races in the country were Bishop R. A.
Carter, and Cleveland Allen who availed himself of the opportunity to emphasize the importance
of placing the bust of Frederick Douglass in the New York Hall of Fame.

At the first evening session held at the Concord Baptist Church in Brooklyn the following evening
there was a large attendance. The meeting was opened by preliminary remarks by the Director.
He was followed by Prof. Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard University who delivered an informing
address on "Involuntary Servitude." Remarks as to the importance of this organization and how
the work may be more successfully prosecuted were made by Bishop R. A. Carter of the C. M.
E. Church, Bishop Lee of the A. M. E. Z. Church and by Dr. George Frazier Miller, Dr. H. H.
Proctor, Dr. W. H. Brown, and Rev. J. B. Adams.

On the following day, the morning session opened with a discussion on "How to promote the Study
of Negro History in the Schools," led by Mr. Thomas C. Williams of the Bordentown Industrial
School. He brought forward valuable statistics out of his own experience as a teacher in this
field and presented several suggestions and plans for the promotion of this work. There followed
some discussion of an informing nature by Dr. I. Garland Penn, Secretary of the Methodist Episcopal
Church Board of Education for Negroes, and by Dr. W. Y. Bell, who spoke of his researches in
the sources bearing on the history of the Negro in Africa.

The Conference closed with an evening session at the Mother A. M. E. Zion Church where addresses
were delivered by Dr. I. Garland Penn and Dr. C. G. Woodson. The address of Dr. Penn dealt
primarily with the Negro as a factor in church history. Beginning with the early struggles
of the denominations and their relations to the Negroes, Dr. Penn enlightened the audience
on facts which are not generally known to the public. He closed his informing address with
the expression of faith in the importance of the church as a factor in the progress of the
Negro. The address by the Director had to do primarily with the history of the Negro by cycles,
showing the varying attitude of the white man toward the Negro and the successful efforts of
the Negroes to rise in the midst of trying difficulties and to convince the world of their
worth. On the whole, this first Spring Conference was a success and justified itself as an
innovation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Quadrennial Address of the Bishops of the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church to the Fourteenth
Session of the General Conference, held in St. Louis on the 3d of May, contains not only the
information bearing on the church but a valuable retrospect as to the conditions among the
Negroes after the World War. Among other topics are mentioned racial retrospect, race prejudice
and race superiority, the aftermath of the war, the church and world conditions, and the reaction
of white Christianity to lawlessness.

THE JOURNAL

OF

NEGRO HISTORY

VOL. VII--OCTOBER, 1922--NO. 4

BRAZILIAN AND UNITED STATES SLAVERY COMPARED

A GENERAL VIEW

Whether the Teutonic races are superior to the Latin races is a mooted question, subject to
prejudiced points of view. However, there is no doubt that there actually exists a great difference
in the institutions of religion, law, language, customs, fashions, and moral precepts between,
let us say, the Anglo-Saxon and the Portuguese. In other words, the English nation has evolved
an English way of living, just as the Portuguese have adapted themselves to governing society,
attacking nature in their own way.

Now assume that these two nationalities with their unlike national habits and traditions are
planted in the new world. Assume the one as living in a warm temperate clime, and the other
under equatorial conditions. Assume that the first nationality is self-sufficient to establish
a colony, and opposed to intermarriage with other races; and then imagine the second case,
where there exist a few colonists in womanless settlements with consequent marriages between
the native and European common, and a large half-breed population as the result. With such
diversities in national character, in the make-up of the individuals, in natural and social
environment, could we expect the two peoples to react similarly to a given social institution?
No wonder then, that slavery in the English colonies of North America was very much unlike
the institution as it existed in Brazil.

Brazil was being tilled by slave labor long before the settlement of Jamestown, and still boasted
of hordes of slaves on its plantations as late as a quarter century after the Emancipation
Proclamation in the United States had been issued. As early as 1585, Pernambuco could claim
10,000 African slaves and Bahia something like three or four thousand,[1] whereas the first
shipment of slaves to the English colonies in America was introduced into Jamestown harbor
by a Dutch ship as late as August, 1619.[2]

