Sending him to school, therefore, it came about, since the child was very vivacious and so
high-spirited in his every action, that he was always cramped for room and was a very devil
both among the other boys at school and everywhere else, always teasing and tormenting both
himself and others, that he lost his own name of Niccolò and acquired that of Tribolo[2] to
such purpose, that he was called that ever afterwards by everyone.

         [Footnote 2: Teasel.]

Now, Tribolo growing, his father, in order both to make use of him and to curb the boy's exuberance,
took him into his workshop and taught him his own trade; but having seen in a few months that
he was ill suited for such a calling, being somewhat delicate, thin, and feeble in health,
he came to the conclusion that if he wished to keep him alive, he must release him from the
heavier labours of his craft and set him to wood-carving. Having heard that without design,
the father of all the arts, the boy could not become an excellent master therein, Raffaello
resolved that he should begin by devoting all his time to design, and therefore made him draw
now cornices, foliage, and grotesques, and now other things necessary to such a profession.
And having seen that in doing this the boy was well served both by his head and by his hand,
and reflecting, like a man of judgment, that with him Niccolò could at best learn nothing else
but to work by the square, Raffaello first spoke of this with the carpenter Ciappino, who was
the very familiar friend of Nanni Unghero; and with his advice and assistance, he placed Niccolò
for three years with the said Nanni, in whose workshop, where both joiner's work and carving
were done, there were constantly to be found the sculptor Jacopo Sansovino, the painter Andrea
del Sarto, and others, who afterwards became such able masters. Now Nanni, who had in those
days a passing good reputation for excellence, was executing many works both in joinery and
in carving for the villa of Zanobi Bartolini at Rovezzano, without the Porta alla Croce, for
the palace of the Bartolini, which Giovanni, the brother of that Zanobi, was having built at
that time on the Piazza di S. Trinita, and for the house and garden of the same man in Gualfonda;
and Tribolo, who was made to work by Nanni without discretion, always having to handle saws,
planes, and other common tools, and not being capable, by reason of the feebleness of his body,
of such exertions, began to feel dissatisfied and to say to Riccio, when he asked for the cause
of his discontent, that he did not think that he could remain with Nanni in that craft, and
that therefore Raffaello should see to placing him with Andrea del Sarto or Jacopo Sansovino,
whom he had come to know in Unghero's workshop, for the reason that with one or the other of
them he hoped to do better and to be sounder in health. Moved by these reasons, then, and again
with the advice and assistance of Ciappino, Riccio placed Tribolo with Jacopo Sansovino, who
took him willingly, because he had known him in the workshop of Nanni Unghero, and had seen
that he worked well in design and even better in relief.

Jacopo Sansovino, when Tribolo, now restored to health, went to work under him, was executing
in the Office of Works of S. Maria del Fiore, in competition with Benedetto da Rovezzano, Andrea
da Fiesole, and Baccio Bandinelli, the marble statue of S. James the Apostle which is still
to be seen at the present day at that place together with the others. And thus Tribolo, with
these opportunities of learning, by working in clay and drawing with great diligence, contrived
to make such proficience in that art, for which he felt a natural inclination, that Jacopo,
growing to love him more and more every day, began to encourage him and to bring him forward
by making him execute now one thing and now another. Whereupon, although Sansovino had in his
workshop at that time Solosmeo da Settignano and Pippo del Fabro, young men of great promise,
seeing that Tribolo, having added skill in the use of chisels to his good knowledge of working
in clay and in wax, not only equalled them but surpassed them by a great measure, he began
to make much use of him in his works. And after finishing the Apostle and a Bacchus that he
made for the house of Giovanni Bartolini in Gualfonda, and undertaking to make for M. Giovanni
Gaddi, his intimate friend, a chimney-piece and a water-basin of hard sandstone for his house
on the Piazza di Madonna, he caused some large figures of boys in clay, which were to go above
the great cornice, to be made by Tribolo, who executed them so extraordinarily well, that M.
Giovanni, having seen the beautiful manner and the genius of the young man, commissioned him
to execute two medallions of marble, which, finished with great excellence, were afterwards
placed over certain doors in the same house.

Meanwhile there was a commission to be given for a tomb, a work of great magnitude, for the
King of Portugal; and since Jacopo had been the disciple of Andrea Contucci of Monte Sansovino,
and had the reputation not only of having equalled his master, a man of great renown, but of
having a manner even more beautiful, that work, through the good offices of the Bartolini,
was allotted to him. Whereupon Jacopo made a most superb model of wood, all covered with scenes
and figures of wax, which were executed for the most part by Tribolo; and these proving to
be very beautiful, the young man's fame so increased that Matteo di Lorenzo Strozzi--Tribolo
having now left Sansovino, thinking that he was by that time able to work by himself--commissioned
him to make some children of stone, and shortly afterwards, being much pleased with them, two
of marble that are holding a dolphin which pours water into a fish-pond, a work that is now
to be seen at San Casciano, a place eight miles distant from Florence, in the villa of that
M. Matteo.

While these works were being executed by Tribolo in Florence, M. Bartolommeo Barbazzi, a Bolognese
gentleman who had gone there on some business, remembered that a search was being made in Bologna
for a young man who could work well, to the end that he might be set to making figures and
scenes of marble for the façade of S. Petronio, the principal church of that city. Wherefore
he spoke to Tribolo, and having seen some of his works, which pleased him, as also did the
young man's ways and other qualities, he took him to Bologna, where Tribolo, with great diligence
and with much credit to himself, in a short time made the two Sibyls of marble that were afterwards
placed in the ornament of that door of S. Petronio which leads to the Della Morte Hospital.
These works finished, arrangements were being made to give him greater things to do, and he
was receiving many proofs of love and affection from M. Bartolommeo, when the plague of the
year 1525 began in Bologna and throughout all Lombardy; whereupon Tribolo, in order to avoid
that plague, made his way to Florence. After living there during all the time that this contagious
and pestilential sickness lasted, he departed as soon as it had ceased, and returned, in obedience
to a summons, to Bologna, where M. Bartolommeo, not allowing him to set his hand to any work
for the façade, resolved, seeing that many of his friends and relatives had died, to have a
tomb made for himself and for them. And so Tribolo, after finishing the model, which M. Bartolommeo
insisted on seeing completed before he did anything else, went in person to Carrara to have
the marbles excavated, intending to rough-hew them on the spot and to lighten them in such
a manner, that they might not only be easier to transport, as indeed they were, but also that
the figures might come out larger. In that place, in order not to waste his time, he blocked
out two large children of marble, which were taken to Bologna with beasts of burden, unfinished
as they were, together with the rest of the work; and after the death of M. Bartolommeo, which
caused such grief to Tribolo that he returned to Tuscany, they were placed, with the other
marbles, in a chapel in S. Petronio, where they still are.

Having thus departed from Carrara, Tribolo, on his way back to Florence, stayed in Pisa to
visit the sculptor Maestro Stagio da Pietrasanta, his very dear friend, who was executing in
the Office of Works of the Duomo in that city two columns with capitals of marble all in open
work, which were to stand one on either side of the high-altar and the Tabernacle of the Sacrament;
and each of these was to have upon the capital an Angel of marble one braccio and three quarters
in height, with a candelabrum in the hand. At the invitation of the said Stagio, having nothing
else to do at that time, he undertook to make one of those Angels: which being finished with
all the perfection that could be given to a delicate work of that size in marble, proved to
be such that nothing more could have been desired, for the reason that the Angel, with the
movement of his person, has the appearance of having stayed his flight in order to uphold that
light, and the nude form has about it some delicate draperies which are so graceful in their
effect, and look so well on every side and from every point of view, that words could not express
their beauty. But, having consumed much time in executing this work, since he cared for nothing
but his delight in art, and not having received for it from the Warden the payment that he
expected, he resolved that he would not make the other Angel, and returned to Florence. There
he met with Giovan Battista della Palla, who at that time was not only causing all the sculptures
and pictures that he could to be executed for sending to King Francis I in France, but was
also buying antiques of all sorts and pictures of every kind, provided only that they were
by the hands of good masters; and every day he was packing them up and sending them off. Now,
at the very moment when Tribolo returned, Giovan Battista had an ancient vase of granite, of
a very beautiful shape, which he wished to arrange in such a manner that it might serve for
a fountain for that King. He therefore declared his mind to Tribolo, and what he proposed to
have done; and he, setting to work, made him a Goddess of Nature, who, raising one arm, holds
that vase, the foot of which she has upon her head, with the hands, the first row of breasts
being adorned with some boys standing out entirely detached from the marble, who are in various
most beautiful attitudes, holding certain festoons in their hands, while the next range of
breasts is covered with quadrupeds, and at her feet are many different kinds of fishes. That
figure was finished with such diligence and such perfection, that it well deserved, after being
sent to France together with other works, to be held very dear by the King, and to be placed,
as a rare thing, in Fontainebleau.

Afterwards, in the year 1529, when preparations were being made for the war against Florence
and the siege, Pope Clement VII, wishing to study the exact site of the city and to consider
in what manner and in what places his forces could be distributed to the best advantage, ordained
that a plan of the city should be made secretly, with all the country for a mile around it--the
hills, mountains, rivers, rocks, houses, churches, and other things, and also the squares and
streets within, together with the walls and bastions surrounding it, and the other defences.
The charge of all this was given to Benvenuto di Lorenzo della Volpaia, an able maker of clocks
and quadrants and a very fine astrologer, but above all a most excellent master in taking ground-plans.
This Benvenuto chose Tribolo as his companion, and that with great judgment, for the reason
that it was Tribolo who suggested that this plan, for the better consideration of the height
of the mountains, the depth of the low-lying parts, and all other particulars, should be made
in relief; the doing of which was not without much labour and danger, in that, staying out
all night to measure the roads and to mark the number of braccia between one place and another,
and also to measure the height of the summits of the belfries and towers, drawing intersecting
lines in every direction by means of the compass, and going beyond the walls to compare the
height of the hills with that of the cupola, which they had marked as their centre, they did
not execute such a work save after many months; but they used great diligence, for they made
it of cork, for the sake of lightness, and limited the whole plan to the space of four braccia,
and measured everything to scale. Having then been finished in this manner, and being made
in pieces, that plan was packed up secretly and smuggled out of Florence in some bales of wool
that were going to Perugia, being consigned to one who had orders to send it to the Pope, who
made use of it continually during the siege of Florence, keeping it in his chamber, and seeing
from one day to another, from letters and despatches, where and how the army was quartered,
where skirmishes took place, and, in short, all the incidents, arguments, and discussions that
occurred during that siege; all greatly to his satisfaction, for it was in truth a rare and
marvellous work.

The war finished--during the progress of which Tribolo executed some works in clay for his
friends, and for Andrea del Sarto, his dearest friend, three figures of wax in the round, of
which Andrea availed himself in painting in fresco, on the Piazza, near the Condotta, portraits
from nature of three captains who had fled with the pay-chests, depicted as hanging by one
foot--Benvenuto, summoned by the Pope, went to Rome to kiss the feet of his Holiness, and was
placed by him in charge of the Belvedere, with an honourable salary. In that office, having
often conversations with the Pope, Benvenuto, when the occasion arose, did not fail to extol
Tribolo as an excellent sculptor and to recommend him warmly; insomuch that, the siege finished,
Clement made use of him. For, designing to give completion to the Chapel of Our Lady at Loreto,
which had been begun by Leo and then abandoned on account of the death of Andrea Contucci of
Monte Sansovino, he ordained that Antonio da San Gallo, who had the charge of executing that
fabric, should summon Tribolo and set him to complete some of those scenes that Maestro Andrea
had left unfinished. Tribolo, then, thus summoned by San Gallo by order of Clement, went with
all his family to Loreto, whither there likewise went Simone, called Mosca, a very rare carver
of marble, Raffaello da Montelupo, Francesco da San Gallo the younger, Girolamo Ferrarese the
sculptor, a disciple of Maestro Andrea, Simone Cioli, Ranieri da Pietrasanta, and Francesco
del Tadda, all invited in order to finish that work. And to Tribolo, in the distribution of
the labours, there fell, as the work of the greatest importance, a scene in which Maestro Andrea
had represented the Marriage of Our Lady.

Thereupon Tribolo made an addition to that scene, and had the notion of placing among the many
figures that are standing watching the Marriage of the Virgin, one who in great fury is breaking
his rod, because it had not blossomed; and in this he succeeded so well, that the suitor could
not display with greater animation the rage that he feels at not having had the good fortune
that he desired. Which work finished, and also that of the others, with great perfection, Tribolo
had already made many models of wax with a view to executing some of those Prophets that were
to go in the niches of that chapel, which was now built and completely finished, when Pope
Clement, after seeing those works and praising them much, and particularly that of Tribolo,
determined that they should all return without loss of time to Florence, in order to finish
under the discipline of Michelagnolo Buonarroti all those figures that were wanting in the
sacristy and library of S. Lorenzo, and the rest of the work, after the models of Michelagnolo
and with his assistance, with the greatest possible speed, to the end that, having finished
the sacristy, they might all together be able, thanks to the proficience made under the discipline
of so great a man, also to finish the façade of S. Lorenzo. And in order that there might be
no manner of delay in doing this, the Pope sent Michelagnolo back to Florence, and with him
Fra Giovanni Angelo de' Servi, who had executed some works in the Belvedere, to the end that
he might assist him in carving the marbles and might make some statues, according as he should
receive orders from Michelagnolo, who caused him to make a S. Cosimo, which was to stand on
one side of the Madonna, with a S. Damiano, allotted to Montelupo, on the other.

These commissions given, Michelagnolo desired that Tribolo should make two nude statues, which
were to be one on either side of that of Duke Giuliano, which he himself had already made;
one was to be a figure of Earth crowned with cypress, weeping with bowed head and with the
arms outstretched, and lamenting the death of Duke Giuliano, and the other a figure of Heaven
with the arms uplifted, all smiling and joyful, and showing her gladness at the adornment and
splendour that the soul and spirit of that lord conferred upon her. But Tribolo's evil fortune
crossed him at the very moment when he was about to begin to work on the statue of Earth; for,
whether it was the change of air, or his feeble constitution, or because he had been irregular
in his way of living, he fell ill of a grievous sickness, which, ending in a quartan fever,
hung about him many months, to his infinite vexation, since he was tormented no less by his
grief at having had to abandon the work, and at seeing that the friar and Raffaello had taken
possession of the field, than by the illness itself. However, wishing to conquer that illness,
in order not to be left behind by his rivals, whose name he heard celebrated more and more
every day, feeble as he was, he made a large model of clay for the statue of Earth, and, when
he had finished it, began to execute the work in marble, with such diligence and assiduity,
that the statue could be seen already all cut out in front, when Fortune, who is always ready
to oppose herself to any fair beginning, by the death of Clement at a moment when nothing seemed
less likely, cut short the aspirations of all those excellent masters who were hoping to acquire
under Michelagnolo, besides boundless profits, immortal renown and everlasting fame.

Stupefied by this misfortune and robbed of all his spirit, and being also ill, Tribolo was
living in utter despair, seeming not to be able either in Florence or abroad to hit upon anything
that might be to his advantage; but Giorgio Vasari, who was always his friend and loved him
from his heart, and helped him all that he could, consoled him, saying that he should not lose
heart, because he would so contrive that Duke Alessandro would give him something to do, by
means of the favour of the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, into whose service Giorgio had
introduced him on terms of no little intimacy. Wherefore Tribolo, having regained a little
courage, occupied himself, while measures were being taken to assist him, with copying in clay
all the figures of marble in the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo which Michelagnolo had executed--namely,
Dawn, Twilight, Day, and Night. And he succeeded in doing them so well, that M. Giovan Battista
Figiovanni, the Prior of S. Lorenzo, to whom he presented the Night in return for having the
sacristy opened for him, judging it to be a rare work, presented it to Duke Alessandro, who
afterwards gave it to Giorgio Vasari, who was living with his Excellency, knowing that Giorgio
gave his attention to such studies; which figure is now in his house at Arezzo, with other
works of art. Having afterwards copied, likewise in clay, the Madonna made by Michelagnolo
for the same sacristy, Tribolo presented it to the above-named M. Ottaviano de' Medici, who
had a most beautiful ornament in squared work made for it by Battista del Cinque, with columns,
cornices, brackets, and other carvings very well executed.

Meanwhile, by the favour of him who was Treasurer to his Excellency, and at the commission
of Bertoldo Corsini, the proveditor for the fortress which was being built at that time, out
of three escutcheons that were to be made by order of the Duke for placing on the bastions,
one on each, one four braccia in height was given to Tribolo to execute, with two nude figures
representing Victories; which escutcheon, finished by him with great diligence and promptitude,
with the addition of three great masks that support the escutcheon and the figures, so pleased
the Duke, that he conceived a very great love for Tribolo. Now shortly afterwards the Duke
went to Naples to defend himself before the Emperor Charles V, who had just returned from Tunis,
against many calumnies that had been laid upon him by some of his citizens; and, having not
only defended himself, but also obtained from his Majesty his daughter Signora Margherita of
Austria for wife, he wrote to Florence that four men should be appointed who might cause vast
and splendid decorations to be prepared throughout the city, in order to receive the Emperor,
who was coming to Florence, with proper magnificence. And I, having to distribute the various
works at the commission of his Excellency--who ordained that I should act in company with the
said four men, who were Giovanni Corsi, Luigi Guicciardini, Palla Rucellai, and Alessandro
Corsini--gave the greatest and most difficult labours for that festival to Tribolo to execute,
which were four large statues. The first was a Hercules that has just killed the Hydra, six
braccia in height, in the round and overlaid with silver, which was placed at that corner of
the Piazza di S. Felice that is at the end of the Via Maggio, with the following inscription
in letters of silver on the base: UT HERCULES LABORE ET ÆRUMNIS MONSTRA EDOMUIT, ITA CÆSAR
VIRTUTE ET CLEMENTIA, HOSTIBUS VICTIS SEU PLACATIS, PACEM ORBI TERRARUM ET QUIETEM RESTITUIT.
Two others were colossal figures eight braccia high, one representing the River Bagrada, which
was resting upon the skin of the serpent that was brought to Rome, and the other representing
the Ebro, with the horn of Amaltheia in one hand and in the other the helm of a ship; both
coloured in imitation of bronze, with inscriptions on the bases; below the Ebro, HIBERUS EX
HISPANIA, and below the other, BAGRADAS EX AFRICA. The fourth was a statue five braccia in
height, on the Canto de' Medici, representing Peace, who had in one hand an olive branch and
in the other a lighted torch, with which she was setting fire to a pile of arms heaped up on
the base on which she was placed; with the following words: FIAT PAX IN VIRTUTE TUA. He did
not finish, as he had hoped to do, the horse seven braccia in length that was set up on the
Piazza di S. Trinita, upon which was to be placed the statue of the Emperor in armour, because
Tasso the wood-carver, who was much his friend, did not show any promptitude in executing the
base and the other things in the way of wood-carving that were to be included in the work,
being a man who let time slip through his fingers in arguing and jesting; and there was only
just time to cover the horse alone with tin-foil laid upon the still fresh clay. On the base
were to be read the following words:

     IMPERATORI CAROLO AUGUSTO VICTORIOSISSIMO, POST DEVICTOS HOSTES,
     ITALIÆ PACE RESTITUTA ET SALUTATO FERDIN. FRATRE, EXPULSIS ITERUM
     TURCIS AFRICAQUE PERDOMITA, ALEXANDER MED. DUX FLORENTIÆ, D.D.

His Majesty having departed from Florence, a beginning was made with the preparations for the
nuptials, in expectation of his daughter, and to the end that she and the Vice-Queen of Naples,
who was in her company, might be commodiously lodged according to the orders of his Excellency
in the house of M. Ottaviano de' Medici, an addition was made to his old house in four weeks,
to the astonishment of everyone; and Tribolo, the painter Andrea di Cosimo, and I, in ten days,
with the help of about ninety sculptors and painters of the city, what with masters and assistants,
completed the preparations for the wedding in so far as appertained to the house and its decorations,
painting the loggie, courtyards, and other spaces in a manner suitable for nuptials of such
importance. Among these decorations, Tribolo made, besides other things, two Victories in half-relief
that were one on either side of the principal door, supported by two large terminal figures,
which also upheld the escutcheon of the Emperor, pendent from the neck of a very beautiful
eagle in the round. The same master also made certain boys, likewise in the round, and large
in size, which were placed on either side of some heads over the pediments of various doors;
and these were much extolled.

Meanwhile, as the nuptials were in progress, Tribolo received letters from Bologna, in which
Messer Pietro del Magno, his devoted friend, besought him that he should consent to go to Bologna,
in order to make for the Madonna di Galliera, where a most beautiful ornament of marble was
already prepared, a scene likewise of marble three braccia and a half in extent. Whereupon
Tribolo, happening to have nothing else to do at that time, went thither, and after making
a model of a Madonna ascending into Heaven, with the Apostles below in various attitudes, which,
being very beautiful, gave great satisfaction, he set his hand to executing it; but with little
pleasure for himself, since the marble that he was carving was that Milanese marble, saline,
full of emery, and bad in quality; and it seemed to him that he was wasting his time, without
feeling a particle of that delight that men find in working those marbles which are a pleasure
to carve, and which in the end, when brought to completion, show a surface that has the appearance
of the living flesh itself. However, he did so much that it was already almost finished, when
I, having persuaded Duke Alessandro to recall Michelagnolo from Rome, and also the other masters,
in order to finish the work of the sacristy begun by Clement, was arranging to give him something
to do in Florence; and I would have succeeded, but in the meantime, by reason of the death
of Alessandro, who was murdered by Lorenzo di Pier Francesco de' Medici, not only was this
design frustrated, but the greatness and prosperity of art were thrown into utter ruin.

Having heard of the Duke's death, Tribolo condoled with me in his letters, beseeching me, after
he had exhorted me to bear with resignation the death of that great Prince, my gracious master,
that if I went to Rome, as he had heard that I, being wholly determined to abandon Courts and
to pursue my studies, was intending to do, I should obtain some commission for him, for the
reason that, if assisted by my friends, he would do whatever I told him. But it so chanced
that it became in no way necessary for him to seek commissions in Rome. For Signor Cosimo de'
Medici, having been created Duke of Florence, as soon as he had freed himself from the troubles
that he had in the first year of his rule by routing his enemies at Monte Murlo, began to take
some diversion, and in particular to frequent not a little the villa of Castello, which is
little more than two miles distant from Florence. There he began to do some building, in order
that he might be able to live there comfortably with his Court, and little by little--being
encouraged in this by Maestro Pietro da San Casciano, who was held to be a passing good master
in those days, and was much in the service of Signora Maria, the mother of the Duke, and had
also always been the master-builder and the former servant of Signor Giovanni--he resolved
to conduct to that place certain waters that he had desired long before to bring thither. Whereupon
a beginning was made with building an aqueduct that was to receive all the waters from the
hill of Castellina, which was at a distance of a quarter of a mile or more from Castello; and
the work was pursued vigorously with a good number of men. But the Duke recognizing that Maestro
Pietro had neither invention nor power of design enough to make in that place a beginning that
might afterwards in time receive that ornamentation which the site and the waters required,
one day that his Excellency was on the spot, speaking of this with such men as Messer Ottaviano
de' Medici and Cristofano Rinieri, the friend of Tribolo and the old servant of Signora Maria
and of the Duke, they extolled Tribolo in such a manner, as a man endowed with all those parts
that were requisite in the head of such a fabric, that the Duke gave Cristofano a commission
to make him come from Bologna. Which having been straightway done by Rinieri, Tribolo, who
could not have received any better news than that he was to serve Duke Cosimo, set out immediately
for Florence, and, arriving there, was taken to Castello, where his most illustrious Excellency,
having heard from him what he thought should be done in the way of decorative fountains, gave
him a commission to make the models. Whereupon he set his hand to these, and was engaged upon
them, while Maestro Pietro da San Casciano was executing the aqueduct and bringing the waters
to the place, when the Duke, who meanwhile had begun, for the security of the city, to surround
with a very strong wall the bastions erected on the hill of San Miniato at the time of the
siege after the designs of Michelagnolo, ordained that Tribolo should make an escutcheon of
hard stone, with two Victories, for an angle of the summit of a bastion that faces Florence.
But Tribolo had scarcely finished the escutcheon, which was very large, and one of those Victories,
a figure four braccia high, which was held to be a very beautiful thing, when he was obliged
to leave that work incomplete, for the reason that, Maestro Pietro having carried well on the
making of the aqueduct and the bringing of the waters, to the full satisfaction of the Duke,
his Excellency wished that Tribolo should begin to put into execution, for the adornment of
that place, the designs and models that he had already shown to him, ordaining him for the
time being a salary of eight crowns a month, the same that was paid to San Casciano.

Now, in order that I may not become confused in describing the intricacies of the aqueducts
and of the ornaments of the fountains, it may be well to say briefly some few words about the
site and position of Castello. The villa of Castello stands at the roots of Monte Morello,
below the Villa della Topaia, which is halfway up the slope; it has before it a plain that
descends little by little, for the space of a mile and a half, down to the River Arno, and
exactly where the ascent of the mountain begins stands the palace, which was built in past
times by Pier Francesco de' Medici, after a very good design. The principal front faces straight
towards the south, overlooking a vast lawn with two very large fish-ponds full of running water,
which comes from an ancient aqueduct made by the Romans in order to conduct water from Valdimarina
to Florence, and provided with a vaulted cistern under the ground; and so it has a very beautiful
and very pleasing view. The fish-ponds in front are divided in the middle by a bridge twelve
braccia wide, which leads to an avenue of the same width, bounded at the sides and covered
above by an unbroken vault of mulberry-trees, ten braccia in height, thus making a covered
avenue three hundred braccia in length, delightful for its shade, which opens on to the high
road to Prato by a gate placed between two fountains that serve to give water to travellers
and animals. On the eastern side the same palace has a very beautiful pile of stable-buildings,
and on the western side a private garden into which one goes from the courtyard of the stables,
passing straight through the ground-floor of the palace by way of the loggie, halls, and chambers
on the level of the ground; from which private garden one can enter by a door on the west side
into another garden, very large and all filled with fruit-trees, and bounded by a forest of
fir-trees that conceals the houses of the labourers and others who live there, engaged in the
service of the palace and of the gardens. Next, that part of the palace which faces north,
towards the mountain, has in front of it a lawn as long as the palace, the stables, and the
private garden altogether, and from this lawn one climbs by steps to the principal garden,
a place enclosed by ordinary walls, which, rising in a gentle slope, stretches so well clear
of the palace as it rises, that the mid-day sun searches it out and bathes it all with its
rays, as if there were no palace in front; and at the upper end it stands so high that it commands
a view not only of the whole palace, but also of the plain that is in front and around it,
and likewise about the city. In the middle of this garden is a forest of very tall and thickly-planted
cypresses, laurels, and myrtles, which, laid out in a circular shape, have the form of a labyrinth,
all surrounded by box-hedges two braccia and a half in height, so even and grown with such
beautiful order that they have the appearance of a painting done with the brush; in the centre
of which labyrinth, at the desire of the Duke, Tribolo, as will be described below, made a
very beautiful fountain of marble. At the principal entrance, where there is the first-mentioned
lawn with the two fish-ponds and the avenue covered with mulberry-trees, Tribolo wished that
the avenue should be so extended that it might stretch for a distance of more than a mile,
covered and shaped in like manner, and might reach as far as the River Arno, and that the waters
which ran away from all the fountains, flowing gently in pleasant channels at the sides of
the avenue, and filled with various kinds of fishes and crayfish, might accompany it down to
that river.

As for the palace--to describe what has still to be done as well as that which has been finished--he
wished to make a loggia in front of it, which, passing by an open courtyard, was to have on
the side where the stables are another palace as large as the old one, with the same proportion
of apartments, loggie, private garden, and the rest; which addition would have made it a vast
palace, with a most beautiful façade. After passing the court from which one enters into the
large garden of the labyrinth, at the main entrance, where there is a vast lawn, after climbing
the steps that lead to that labyrinth, there came a level space thirty braccia square, on which
there was to be--and has since been made--a very large fountain of white marble, which was
to spout upwards above ornaments fourteen braccia in height, while from the mouth of a statue
at the highest point was to issue a jet of water rising to the height of six braccia. At either
end of the lawn was to be a loggia, one opposite to the other, each thirty braccia in length
and fifteen in breadth; and in the middle of each loggia was to be placed a marble table twelve
braccia in length, and on the outside a basin of eight braccia, which was to receive the water
from a vase held by two figures. In the middle of the above-mentioned labyrinth Tribolo had
thought to achieve the most decorative effect with water by means of jets and a very beautiful
seat round the fountain, the marble basin of which was to be, even as it was afterwards made,
much smaller than that of the large principal fountain; and at the summit it was to have a
figure of bronze spouting water. At the end of this garden, in the centre, there was to be
a gate with some children of marble on both sides spouting water, with a fountain on either
side, and in the corners double niches in which statues were to be placed, as in the others
that are in the walls at the sides, at the opposite ends of the avenues that cross the garden,
which are all covered with greenery distributed in various ways.

Through the above-mentioned gate, which is at the upper end of this garden, above some steps,
one enters into another garden, as wide as the first, but of no great depth in the direct line,
in comparison with the mountain beyond. In this garden were to be two other loggie, one on
either side, and in the wall opposite to the gate, which supports the soil of the mountain,
there was to be in the centre a grotto with three basins, with water playing into them in imitation
of rain. The grotto was to be between two fountains placed in the same wall, and opposite to
these, in the lower wall of the garden, were to be two others, one on either side of the gate;
so that the fountains of this garden would have been equal in number to those of the other,
which is below it, and receives its water from the first, which is higher. And this garden
was to be all full of orange-trees, which would have had--and will have, whenever that may
be--a most favourable situation, being defended by the walls and by the mountain from the north
wind and other harmful winds.

From this garden one climbs by two staircases of flint, one on either side, to a forest of
cypresses, fir-trees, holm-oaks, laurels, and other evergreen trees, distributed with beautiful
order, in the middle of which, according to Tribolo's design, there was to be a most lovely
fish-pond, which has since been made. And because this part, gradually narrowing, forms an
angle, that angle, to the end that it might be made flat, was to be blunted by the breadth
of a loggia, from which, after climbing some steps, might be seen in front the palace, the
gardens, the fountains, and all the plain below and about them, as far as the Ducal Villa of
Poggio a Caiano, Florence, Prato, Siena, and all that is around for many miles.

Now the above-named Maestro Pietro da San Casciano, having carried his work of the aqueduct
as far as Castello, and having turned into it all the waters of Castellina, was overtaken by
a violent fever, and died in a few days. Whereupon Tribolo, undertaking the charge of directing
all the building by himself, perceived that, although the waters brought to Castello were in
great abundance, nevertheless they were not sufficient for all that he had made up his mind
to do; not to mention that, coming from Castellina, they did not rise to the height that he
required for his purposes. Having therefore obtained from the Lord Duke a commission to conduct
thither the waters of Petraia, a place more than one hundred and fifty braccia above Castello,
which are good and very abundant, he caused a conduit to be made, similar to the other, and
so high that one can enter into it, to the end that thus those waters of Petraia might come
to the fish-pond through another aqueduct with enough fall for the fish-pond and the great
fountain.

This done, Tribolo began to build the above-mentioned grotto, proposing to make it with three
niches, in a beautiful architectural design, and likewise the two fountains that were one on
either side of it. In one of these there was to be a large statue of stone, representing Monte
Asinaio, which, pressing its beard, was to pour water from its mouth into a basin that was
to be in front of it; from which basin the water, issuing by a hidden channel, and passing
under the wall, was to flow to the fountain that there is at the present day behind the wall,
at the end of the slope of the garden of the labyrinth, pouring into the vase on the shoulder
of the figure of the River Mugnone, which is in a large niche of grey-stone decorated with
most beautiful ornaments, and all covered with sponge-stone. This work, if it had been finished
in all its perfection, even as it is in part, would have had great similarity to the reality,
since the Mugnone rises from Monte Asinaio.

For the Mugnone, then, to describe that which has been done, Tribolo made a figure of grey-stone,
four braccia in length, and reclining in a very beautiful attitude, which has upon one shoulder
a vase that pours water into a basin, and rests the other on the ground, leaning upon it, with
the left leg crossed over the right. And behind this river is a woman representing Fiesole,
wholly naked, issuing from among the sponge-stones and rocks in the middle of the niche, and
holding in the hand a moon which is the ancient emblem of the people of Fiesole. Below this
niche is a very large basin supported by two great Capricorns, which are one of the devices
of the Duke; from which Capricorns hang some festoons and masks of great beauty, and from their
lips issues the water from that basin, which is convex in the middle, and has outlets at the
sides; and all the water that overflows pours away from the sides through the mouths of the
Capricorns, and then, after falling into the hollow base of the vase, flows through the herb-beds
that are round the walls of the garden of the labyrinth, where there are fountains between
the niches, and between the fountains espaliers of oranges and pomegranates.

In the second garden described above, where Tribolo had intended that there should be made
the Monte Asinaio that was to supply water to the Mugnone, there was to be on the other side,
beyond the gate, a similar figure of the Monte della Falterona; and even as this mountain is
the source of the River Arno, so the statue representing that river in the garden of the labyrinth,
opposite to the Mugnone, was to receive the water from the Falterona. But since neither the
figure of that mountain nor its fountain has ever been finished, let us speak of the fountain
and figure of the River Arno, which were completed by Tribolo to perfection. This river, then,
holds its vase upon one thigh, lying down and leaning with one arm on a lion, which holds a
lily in its paw, and the vase receives its water through the perforated wall, behind which
there was to be the Falterona, exactly in the manner in which, as has been described, the statue
of the River Mugnone also receives its water; and since the long basin is in every way similar
to that of the Mugnone, I shall say no more about it, save this, that it is a pity that the
art and excellence of these works, which are truly most beautiful, are not embodied in marble.

Then, continuing the work of the conduit, Tribolo caused the water from the grotto to pass
under the orange-garden and then under the next garden, and thus brought it into the labyrinth,
where, forming a circle round all the middle of the labyrinth, in a good circumference round
the centre, he laid down the central pipe, through which the fountain was to spout water. After
which, taking the waters from the Arno and the Mugnone, and bringing them together under the
level of the labyrinth by means of certain bronze pipes that were distributed in beautiful
order throughout that space, he filled that whole pavement with very fine jets, in such a manner
that it was possible by turning a key to drench all those who came near to see the fountain.
Nor is one able to escape either quickly or with ease, because Tribolo made round the fountain
and the pavement, in which are the jets, a seat of grey-stone supported by lion's paws, between
which are sea monsters in low-relief; which was a difficult thing to do, because he chose,
since the place was sloping and the square lay on the slant, to make it level, and the same
with the seat.

Having then set his hand to the fountain of the labyrinth, he made on the shaft, in marble,
an interwoven design of sea monsters cut out in full relief, with tails intertwined so well,
that nothing better of that kind could be done. And this finished, he executed the tazza with
a piece of marble brought long before to Castello, together with a large table, also of marble,
from the Villa dell'Antella, which M. Ottaviano de' Medici formerly bought from Giuliano Salviati.
By reason of this opportunity, then, Tribolo made that tazza sooner than he might otherwise
have done, fashioning round it a dance of little children attached to the moulding which is
beside the lip of the tazza; which children are holding festoons of products of the sea, cut
out of the marble with beautiful art. And so also the shaft which he made over the tazza, he
executed with much grace, with some very beautiful children and masks to spout water. Upon
that shaft it was the intention of Tribolo to place a bronze statue three braccia high, representing
Florence, in order to signify that from the above-named Mounts Asinaio and Falterona the waters
of the Arno and Mugnone come to Florence; of which figure he had made a most beautiful model
which, pressing the hair with the hands, caused water to pour forth. Then, having brought the
water as far as the space thirty braccia square, below the labyrinth, he made a beginning with
the great fountain, which, made with eight sides, was to receive all the above-mentioned waters
into its lowest basin--namely, those from the waterworks of the labyrinth, and likewise those
of the great conduit. Each of these eight sides, then, rises above a step one-fifth of a braccio
in height, and each angle of the eight sides has a projection, as have also the steps, which,
thus projecting, rise at each angle in a great step of two-fifths of a braccio, in such a way
that the central face of the steps withdraws into the projections, and their straight line
is thus broken, which produces a bizarre effect, and makes the ascent very easy. The edges
of the fountain have the shape of a vase, and the body of the fountain--that is, the inner
part where the water is--curves in the form of a circle. The shaft begins with eight sides,
and continues with eight seats almost up to the base of the tazza, upon which are seated eight
children of the size of life, all in the round and in various attitudes, who, linked together
with the legs and arms, make a rich adornment and a most beautiful effect. And since the tazza,
which is round, projects to the extent of six braccia, the water of the whole fountain, pouring
equally over the edge on every side, sends a very beautiful rain, like the drippings from a
roof, into the octagonal basin mentioned above, and those children that are on the shaft of
the tazza are not wetted, and they appear to be there in order not to be wetted by the rain,
almost like real children, full of delight and playing as they shelter under the lip of the
tazza, which could not be equalled in its simplicity and beauty. Opposite to the four paths
that intersect the garden are four children of bronze lying at play in various attitudes, which
are after the designs of Tribolo, although they were executed afterwards by others. Above this
tazza begins another shaft, which has at the foot, on some projections, four children of marble
in the round, who are pressing the necks of some geese that spout water from their mouths;
and this water is that of the principal conduit coming from the labyrinth, and rises exactly
to this height. Above these children is the rest of the shaft of this pedestal, which is made
with certain cartouches which spurt forth water in a most bizarre manner; and then, regaining
a quadrangular form, it rises over some masks that are very well made. Above this, then, is
a smaller tazza, on the lip of which, on all four sides, are fixed by the horns four heads
of Capricorns, making a square, which spout water through their mouths into the large tazza,
together with the children, in order to make the rain which falls, as has been told, into the
first basin, which has eight sides. Still higher there follows another shaft, adorned with
other ornaments and with some children in half-relief, who, projecting outwards, form at the
top a round space that serves as base to the figure of a Hercules who is crushing Antæus, which
was designed by Tribolo and executed afterwards by others, as will be related in the proper
place. From the mouth of this Antæus he intended that, instead of his spirit, there should
gush out through a pipe water in great abundance, as indeed it does; which water is that of
the great conduit of Petraia, which comes with much force, and rises sixteen braccia above
the level where the steps are, and makes a marvellous effect in falling back into the greater
tazza. In that same aqueduct, then, come not only those waters from Petraia, but also those
that go to the fish-pond and the grotto, and these, uniting with those from Castellina, go
to the fountains of the Falterona and Monte Asinaio, and thence to the fountains of the Arno
and Mugnone, as has been related; after which, being reunited at the fountain of the labyrinth,
they go to the centre of the great fountain, where are the children with the geese. From there,
according to the design of Tribolo, they were to flow through two distinct and separate conduits
into the basins of the loggie, where the tables are, and then each into a separate private
garden. The first of these gardens--that towards the west--is all filled with rare and medicinal
plants; wherefore at the highest level of that water, in that garden of simples, in the niche
of the fountain, and behind a basin of marble, there was to be a statue of Æsculapius.

The principal fountain described above, then, was completely finished in marble by Tribolo,
and carried to the finest and greatest perfection that could be desired in a work of this kind.
Wherefore I believe that it may be said with truth that it is the most beautiful fountain,
the richest, the best proportioned, and the most pleasing that has ever been made, for the
reason that in the figures, in the vases, in the tazze, and, in short, throughout the whole
work, are proofs of extraordinary diligence and industry. After this, having made the model
of the above-mentioned statue of Æsculapius, Tribolo began to execute it in marble, but, being
hindered by other things, he did not finish that figure, which was completed afterwards by
the sculptor Antonio di Gino, his disciple.

=. Florence: Villa Reale di Castello)]

On the side towards the east, in a little lawn without the garden, Tribolo arranged an oak
in a most ingenious manner, for, besides the circumstance that it is so thickly covered both
above and all around with ivy intertwined among the branches, that it has the appearance of
a very dense grove, one can climb up it by a convenient staircase of wood similarly covered
with ivy, at the top of which, in the middle of the oak, there is a square chamber surrounded
by seats, the backs of which are all of living verdure, and in the centre is a little table
of marble with a vase of variegated marble in the middle, from which, through a pipe, there
flows and spurts into the air a strong jet of water, which, after falling, runs away through
another pipe. These pipes mount upwards from the foot of the oak so well hidden by the ivy,
that nothing is seen of them, and the water can be turned on or off at pleasure by means of
certain keys; nor is it possible to describe in full in how many ways that water of the oak
can be turned on, in order to drench anyone at pleasure with various instruments of copper,
not to mention that with the same instruments one can cause the water to produce various sounds
and whistlings.

Finally, all these waters, after having served so many different purposes, and supplied so
many fountains, are collected together, and flow into the two fish-ponds that are without the
palace, at the beginning of the avenue, and thence to other uses of the villa.

Nor will I omit to tell what was the intention of Tribolo with regard to the statues that were
to be as ornaments in the great garden of the labyrinth, in the niches that may be seen regularly
distributed there in various spaces. He proposed, then--acting in this on the judicious advice
of M. Benedetto Varchi, who has been in our times most excellent as poet, orator, and philosopher--that
at the upper and lower ends there should be placed the four Seasons of the year--Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter--and that each should be set up in that part where its particular season
is most felt. At the entrance, on the right hand, beside the Winter, and in that part of the
wall which stretches upwards, were to go six figures that were to demonstrate the greatness
and goodness of the house of Medici, and to denote that all the virtues are to be found in
Duke Cosimo; and these were Justice, Compassion, Valour, Nobility, Wisdom, and Liberality,
which have always dwelt in the house of Medici, and are all united together at the present
day in the most excellent Lord Duke, in that he is just, compassionate, valorous, noble, wise,
and liberal. And because these qualities have made the city of Florence, as they still do,
strong in laws, peace, arms, science, wisdom, tongues, and arts, and also because the said
Lord Duke is just in the laws, compassionate in peace, valorous in arms, noble through the
sciences, wise in his encouragement of tongues and other culture, and liberal to the arts,
Tribolo wished that on the other side from the Justice, Compassion, Valour, Nobility, Wisdom,
and Liberality, on the left hand, as will be seen below, there should be these other figures:
Laws, Peace, Arms, Sciences, Tongues, and Arts. And it was most appropriately arranged that
in this manner these statues and images should be placed, as they would have been, above the
Arno and Mugnone, in order to signify that they do honour to Florence. It was also proposed
that in the pediments there should be placed portrait-busts of men of the house of Medici,
one in each--over Justice, for example, the portrait of his Excellency, that being his particular
virtue, over Compassion that of the Magnificent Giuliano, over Valour Signor Giovanni, over
Nobility the elder Lorenzo, over Wisdom the elder Cosimo or Clement VII, and over Liberality
Pope Leo. And in the pediments on the other side it was suggested that there might be placed
other heads from the house of Medici, or of persons of the city connected with that house.
But since these names make the matter somewhat confused, they have been placed here in the
following order:

  SUMMER.      THE MUGNONE.  GATE.  THE ARNO.    SPRING.

  ARTS.      L                                L  LIBERALITY.
  TONGUES.   O                                O  WISDOM.
  SCIENCES.  G                                G  NOBILITY.
  ARMS.      G                                G  VALOUR.
  PEACE.     I                                I  COMPASSION.
  LAWS.      A                                A  JUSTICE.

      AUTUMN.    GATE.     LOGGIA.  GATE.  WINTER.

All these ornaments would have made this in truth the richest, the most magnificent, and the
most ornate garden in Europe; but these works were not carried to completion, for the reason
that Tribolo was not able to take measures to have them finished while the Duke was in the
mind to continue them, as he might have done in a short time, having men in abundance and the
Duke ready to spend money, and not suffering from those hindrances that afterwards stopped
him. The Duke, indeed, not being contented at that time with the great quantity of water that
is to be seen there, was thinking of trying to obtain the water of Valcenni, which is very
abundant, in order to join it with the rest, and then to conduct it from Castello by an aqueduct
similar to the one which he had made to the Piazza in front of his Palace in Florence. And
of a truth, if this work had been pressed forward by a man with greater energy and more desire
of glory, it would have been carried at least well on; but since Tribolo, besides that he was
much occupied with various affairs of the Duke's, had not much energy, nothing more was done.
And in all the time that he worked at Castello, he did not execute with his own hand anything
save the two fountains, with the two rivers, the Arno and the Mugnone, and the statue of Fiesole;
this arising from no other cause, so far as one can see, but his being too much occupied, as
has been related, with the many affairs of the Duke.

Among other things, the Duke caused him to make a bridge over the River Mugnone on the high
road that goes to Bologna, without the Porta a S. Gallo. This bridge, since the river crosses
the road obliquely, Tribolo caused to be built with an arch likewise oblique, in accordance
with its oblique line across the river, which was a new thing, and much extolled, above all
because he had the arch put together of stones cut on the slant on every side in such a manner
that it proved to be very strong and very graceful; in short, this bridge was a very beautiful
work.

Not long before, the Duke had been seized with a desire to make a tomb for Signor Giovanni
de' Medici, his father, and Tribolo, being eager to have the commission, made a very beautiful
model for it, in competition with one that had been executed by Raffaello da Montelupo, who
had the favour of Francesco di Sandro, the master of arms to his Excellency. And then, the
Duke having resolved that the one to be put into execution should be Tribolo's, he went off
to have the marble quarried at Carrara, where he also caused to be quarried the two basins
for the loggie at Castello, a table, and many other blocks of marble. Meanwhile, Messer Giovan
Battista da Ricasoli, now Bishop of Pistoia, being in Rome on business of the Lord Duke's,
he was sought out by Baccio Bandinelli, who had just finished the tombs of Pope Leo X and Clement
VII in the Minerva; and he was asked by Baccio to recommend him to his Excellency. Whereupon
Messer Giovan Battista wrote to the Duke that Bandinelli desired to serve him, and his Excellency
wrote in reply that on his return he should bring him in his company. And Bandinelli, having
therefore arrived in Florence, so haunted the Duke in his audacity, making promises and showing
him designs and models, that the tomb of the above-named Signor Giovanni, which was to have
been made by Tribolo, was allotted to him; and so, taking some pieces of marble of Michelagnolo's,
which were in the Via Mozza in Florence, he hacked them about without scruple and began the
work. Wherefore Tribolo, on returning from Carrara, found that in consequence of his being
too leisurely and good-natured, the commission had been taken away from him. That arch was
to be all covered with figures and scenes, in addition to the statues by the hand of Tribolo;
and all those paintings were executed by Battista Franco of Venice, Ridolfo Ghirlandajo, and
Michele, his disciple. Now the principal figure that Tribolo made for this work, which was
placed at the highest point in the centre of the pediment, on a dado wrought in relief, was
a woman five braccia high, representing Fecundity, with five little boys, three clinging to
her legs, one on her lap, and another in her arms; and beside her, where the pediment sloped
away, were two figures of the same size, one on either side. Of these figures, which were lying
down, one was Security, leaning on a column with a light wand in her hand, and the other was
Eternity, with a globe in her arms, and below her feet a white-haired old man representing
Time, and holding in his arms the Sun and Moon. I shall say nothing as to the works of painting
that were on that arch, because everyone may read about them for himself in the description
of the festive preparations for those nuptials. And since Tribolo had particular charge of
all decorations for the Palace of the Medici, he caused many devices to be executed in the
lunettes of the vaulting of the court, with mottoes appropriate to the nuptials, and all those
of the most illustrious members of the house of Medici. Besides this, he had a most sumptuous
decoration made in the great open court, all full of stories; on one side of the Greeks and
Romans, and on the other sides of deeds done by illustrious men of that house of Medici, which
were all executed under the direction of Tribolo by the most excellent young painters that
there were in Florence at that time--Bronzino, Pier Francesco di Sandro, Francesco Il Bacchiacca,
Domenico Conti, Antonio di Domenico, and Battista Franco of Venice.

On the Piazza di S. Marco, also, upon a vast pedestal ten braccia in height (in which Bronzino
had painted two very beautiful scenes of the colour of bronze on the socle that was above the
cornices), Tribolo erected a horse of twelve braccia, with the fore-legs in the air, and upon
it an armed figure, large in proportion; and this figure, which had below it men dead and wounded,
represented the most valorous Signor Giovanni de' Medici, the father of his Excellency. This
work was executed by Tribolo with so much art and judgment, that it was admired by all who
saw it, and what caused even greater marvel was the speed with which he finished it; among
his assistants being the sculptor Santi Buglioni, who was crippled for ever in one leg by a
fall, and came very near dying.

Under the direction of Tribolo, likewise, for the comedy that was performed, Aristotile da
San Gallo executed marvellous scenery, being truly most excellent in such things, as will be
told in his Life; and for the costumes in the interludes, which were the work of Giovan Battista
Strozzi, who had charge of the whole comedy, Tribolo himself made the most pleasing and beautiful
inventions that it is possible to imagine in the way of vestments, buskins, head-dresses, and
other wearing apparel. These things were the reason that the Duke afterwards availed himself
of Tribolo's ingenuity in many fantastic masquerades, as in that of the bears, in a race of
buffaloes, in the masquerade of the ravens, and in others.

In like manner, in the year when there was born to the said Lord Duke his eldest son, the Lord
Don Francesco, there was to be made in the Temple of S. Giovanni in Florence a very magnificent
decoration which was to be marvellous in its grandeur, and capable of accommodating one hundred
most noble young maidens, who were to accompany the Prince from the Palace as far as the said
temple, where he was to receive baptism. The charge of this was given to Tribolo, who, in company
with Tasso, adapting himself to the place, brought it about that the temple, which in itself
is ancient and very beautiful, had the appearance of a new temple designed very well in the
modern manner, with seats all round it richly adorned with pictures and gilding. In the centre,
beneath the lantern, he made a great vase of carved woodwork with eight sides, the base of
which rested on four steps, and at the corners of the eight sides were some large caulicoles,
which, springing from the ground, where there were some lions' paws, had at the top of them
certain children of large size in various attitudes, who were holding with their hands the
lip of the vase, and supporting with their shoulders some festoons which hung like a garland
right round the space in the middle. Besides this, Tribolo had made in the middle of the vase
a pedestal of wood with beautiful things of fancy round it, upon which, to crown the work,
he placed the S. John the Baptist of marble, three braccia high, by the hand of Donatello,
which was left by him in the house of Gismondo Martelli, as has been related in the Life of
Donatello himself. In short, this temple was adorned both within and without as well as could
possibly be imagined, and the only part neglected was the principal chapel, where there is
an old tabernacle with those figures in relief that Andrea Pisano made long ago; by reason
of which it appeared that, every other part being made new, that old chapel spoilt all the
grace that the other things together displayed. Wherefore the Duke, going one day to see those
decorations, after praising everything like a man of judgment, and recognizing how well Tribolo
had adapted himself to the situation and to every other feature of the place, censured one
thing only, but that severely--that no thought had been given to the principal chapel. And
then he ordained on the spot, like a person of resolute character and beautiful judgment, that
all that part should be covered with a vast canvas painted in chiaroscuro, with S. John the
Baptist baptizing Christ, and the people standing all around to see them or to be baptized,
some taking off their clothes, and others putting them on again, in various attitudes; and
above this was to be a God the Father sending down the Holy Spirit, with two fountains in the
guise of river-gods, representing the Jor and the Dan, which, pouring forth water, were to
form the Jordan. Jacopo da Pontormo was requested to execute this work by Messer Pier Francesco
Riccio, at that time major-domo to the Duke, and by Tribolo, but he would not do it, on the
ground that he did not think that the time given, which was only six days, would be enough
for him; and the same refusal was made by Ridolfo Ghirlandajo, Bronzino, and many others. Now
at this time Giorgio Vasari, having returned from Bologna, was executing for Messer Bindo Altoviti
the altar-piece of his chapel in S. Apostolo at Florence, but he was not held in much consideration,
although he had friendship with Tribolo and Tasso, because certain persons had formed a faction
under the protection of the above-named Messer Pier Francesco Riccio, and whoever was not of
that faction had no share in the favours of the Court, although he might be able and deserving.
This was the reason that many who, with the aid of so great a Prince, would have become excellent,
found themselves neglected, none being employed save those chosen by Tasso, who, being a gay
person, got Riccio so well under his thumb with his jokes, that in certain affairs he neither
proposed nor did anything save what was suggested by Tasso, who was architect to the Palace
and did all the work. These men, then, having a sort of suspicion of Giorgio, who laughed at
their vanities and follies, and sought to make a position for himself rather by means of the
studies of art than by favour, gave no thought to his claims; but he was commissioned by the
Lord Duke to execute that canvas, with the subject described above. This work he executed in
chiaroscuro, in six days, and delivered it finished in the manner known to those who saw what
grace and adornment it conferred on the whole decoration, and how much it enlivened that part
of the temple that stood most in need of it, amid the magnificence of that festival. Tribolo,
then (to return to the point whence, I know not how, I digressed), acquitted himself so well,
that he rightly won the highest praise; and the Duke commanded that a great part of the ornaments
that he placed between the columns should be left there, where they still are, and deservedly.

For the Villa of Cristofano Rinieri at Castello, while he was occupied with the fountains of
the Duke, Tribolo made for a niche over a fish-pond which is at the head of a fowling-place,
a river-god of grey-stone, of the size of life, which pours water into a very large basin of
the same stone; which figure is made of pieces, and put together with such diligence and art,
that it appears to be all of one block. Tribolo then set his hand, at the command of his Excellency,
to attempting to finish the staircase of the library of S. Lorenzo--that, namely, which is
in the vestibule before the door; but after he had placed four steps in position, not finding
either the plan or the measurements of Michelagnolo, by order of the Duke he went to Rome,
not only to hear the opinion of Michelagnolo with regard to that staircase, but also to make
an effort to bring him to Florence. But he did not succeed either in the one object or in the
other, for Michelagnolo, not wishing to leave Rome, excused himself in a handsome manner, and
as for the staircase he declared that he remembered neither the measurements nor anything else.
Tribolo, therefore, having returned to Florence, and not being able to continue the work of
that staircase, set himself to make the pavement of the said library with white and red bricks,
after the manner of some pavements that he had seen in Rome; but he added a filling of red
clay to the white clay mixed with bole, in order to produce various effects of carving in those
bricks; and thus he made in that pavement a copy of the ceiling and coffered work above--a
notion that was highly extolled. He then began, but did not finish, a work that was to be placed
on the main tower of the defences of the Porta a Faenza, for Don Giovanni di Luna, the castellan
at that time--namely, an escutcheon of grey-stone, and a large eagle in full relief with two
heads, which he made in wax to the end that it might be cast in bronze, but nothing more was
done with it, and of the escutcheon only the shield was finished.

Now it was the custom in the city of Florence to have almost every year on the principal piazza,
on the evening of the festival of S. John the Baptist, towards nightfall, a girandola--that
is, a contrivance full of fire-trumpets, rockets, and other fireworks; which girandola had
the form now of a temple, now of a ship, sometimes of rocks, and at times of a city or of an
inferno, according as it pleased the designer; and one year the charge of making one was given
to Tribolo, who, as will be described below, made it very beautifully. Of the various manners
of these fireworks, and particularly of set pieces, Vannoccio of Siena and others give an account,
and on this subject I shall enlarge no further; but I must say something as to the nature of
these girandole. The whole structure, then, is of wood, with broad compartments radiating outwards
from the foot, to the end that the rockets, when they have been lighted, may not set fire to
the other fireworks, but may rise in due order from their separate places, one after another,
filling the heavens in proper succession with the fire that blazes in the girandola both above
and below. They are distributed, I say, at wide intervals, to the end that they may not burn
all at once, and may produce a beautiful effect; and the same do the mortars, which are bound
to the firm parts of the girandola, and make the most beautiful and joyous noises. The fire-trumpets,
likewise, are fitted in among the ornaments, and are generally contrived so as to discharge
through the mouths of masks and other suchlike things. But the most important point is to arrange
the girandola in such a manner that the lights that burn in certain vases may last the whole
night, and illuminate the piazza; wherefore the whole work is connected together by a simple
match of tow steeped in a mixture of powder full of sulphur and aquavitæ, which creeps little
by little with its fire to every part which it has to set alight, one after another, until
it has kindled the whole. Now, as I have said, the things represented are various, but all
must have something to do with fire, and must be subject to its action; and long before this
there had been counterfeited the city of Sodom, with Lot and his daughters flying from it,
at another time Geryon, with Virgil and Dante on his back, according as Dante himself relates
in the Inferno, and even earlier Orpheus bringing Eurydice with him from those infernal regions,
with many other inventions. And his Excellency ordained that the work should not be given to
any of the puppet-painters, who for many years past had made a thousand absurdities in the
girandole, but that an excellent master should produce a work that might have in it something
of the good; wherefore the charge of this was given to Tribolo, who, with the ingenuity and
art wherewith he had executed all his other works, made one in the form of a very beautiful
octagonal temple, rising with its ornaments to the total height of twenty braccia. This temple
he represented as the Temple of Peace, placing on the summit an image of Peace, who was setting
fire to a great pile of arms which she had at her feet; and these arms, the statue of Peace,
and all the other figures that made this structure one of great beauty, were made of pasteboard,
clay, and cloth steeped in glue, put together with extraordinary art. They were, I say, of
these materials, to the end that the whole work might be the lighter, since it was to be suspended
at a great height from the ground by a double rope that crossed the Piazza high in the air.
It is true, indeed, that the fireworks having been placed in it too thickly, and the fuses
of tow being too near one to another, when they were set alight, such was the fury of the conflagration,
and so great and so violent the blaze, that everything caught fire all at once, and was burned
in a flash, whereas it should have continued to burn for an hour at least; and what was worse,
the fire seizing on the woodwork and on all that should have been preserved, the ropes and
every other thing were consumed in a moment, which was no small loss, and gave little pleasure
to the people. But with regard to workmanship, it was more beautiful than any other girandola
that had ever been made up to that time.

The Duke, then, resolving to erect the Loggia of the Mercato Nuovo for the convenience of his
citizens and merchants, did not wish to lay a greater burden than he could bear on Tribolo,
who, as chief engineer to the Capitani di Parte and the commissioners of the rivers and the
sewers of the city, was always riding through the Florentine dominions, engaged in bringing
back to their proper beds many rivers that did damage by breaking away from them, in repairing
bridges, and in other suchlike works; and he gave the charge of this enterprise to Tasso, at
the advice of the above-mentioned Messer Pier Francesco, his major-domo, in order to change
that Tasso from a carpenter into an architect. This was certainly against the wishes of Tribolo,
although he did not show it, and even acted as the close friend of Tasso; and a proof that
this is true is that Tribolo perceived many errors in Tasso's model, but, so it is believed,
would by no means tell him of them. Such an error, for example, was that of the capitals of
the columns that are beside the pilasters, whereby, the columns not leaving enough space, when
everything had been drawn up, and the capitals had to be set into position, the corona above
those capitals would not go in, so that it was found necessary to cut away so much that the
order of the architecture was ruined; besides many other errors, of which there is no need
to speak. For the above-named Messer Pier Francesco the same Tasso executed the door of the
Church of S. Romolo, and a window with knee-shaped brackets on the Piazza del Duca, in an order
of his own, substituting capitals for bases, and doing so many other things without measure
or order, that it might have been said that the German Order had begun to return to life in
Tuscany by means of this man; to say nothing of the works that he did in the Palace in the
way of staircases and apartments, which the Duke has been obliged to have destroyed, because
they had no sort of order, measure, or proportion, and were, on the contrary, all shapeless,
out of square, and without the least convenience or grace. All these things were not done without
some responsibility falling on Tribolo, who, having considerable knowledge in such matters,
should not, so it seemed, have allowed his Prince to throw away his money and to do him such
an affront to his face; and, what was even more serious, he should not have permitted such
things to Tasso, who was his friend. Well did men of judgment recognize the presumption and
madness of the one in seeking to exercise an art of which he knew nothing, and the dissimulation
of the other, who declared that he was pleased with that which he certainly knew to be bad;
and of this a proof may be found in the works that Giorgio Vasari has had to pull down in the
Palace, to the loss of the Duke and the great shame of those men.

But the same thing happened to Tribolo as to Tasso, in that, even as Tasso abandoned wood-carving,
a craft in which he had no equal, but never became a good architect, and thus won little honour
by deserting an art in which he was very able, and applying himself to another of which he
knew not one scrap, so Tribolo, abandoning sculpture, in which it may be said with truth that
he was most excellent and caused everyone to marvel, and setting himself to attempt to straighten
out rivers, ceased to win honour by pursuing the one, while the other brought him blame and
loss rather than honour and profit. For he did not succeed in his tinkering with rivers, and
he made many enemies, particularly in the district of Prato, on account of the Bisenzio, and
in many places in the Val di Nievole.

Duke Cosimo having then bought the Palace of the Pitti, of which there has been an account
in another place, and his Excellency desiring to adorn it with gardens, groves, fountains,
fish-ponds, and other suchlike things, Tribolo executed all the distribution of the hill in
the manner in which it still remains, accommodating everything in its proper place with beautiful
judgment, although various things in many parts of the garden have since been changed. Of this
Pitti Palace, which is the most beautiful in Europe, mention will be made in another place
with a more suitable occasion.

After these things, Tribolo was sent by his Excellency to the island of Elba, not only that
he might see the city and port that the Duke had caused to be built there, but also that he
might make arrangements for the transport of a round piece of granite, twelve braccia in diameter,
from which was to be made a tazza for the great lawn of the Pitti Palace, which might receive
the water of the principal fountain. Tribolo, therefore, went thither and caused a boat to
be made on purpose for transporting the tazza, and then, after giving the stone-cutters directions
for the transportation, he returned to Florence; where he had no sooner arrived, than he found
the whole country full of murmurings and maledictions against him, since about that time floods
and inundations had done infinite havoc in the neighbourhood of those rivers that he had patched
up, although it was, perhaps, not altogether through his fault that this had happened. However
that may have been, whether it was the malignity of some of his assistants, or perchance envy,
or that the accusation was indeed true, the blame for all that damage was laid on Tribolo,
who, being a man of no great spirit, and rather wanting in resolution than otherwise, and doubting
that the malice of some enemy might make him lose the favour of the Duke, was in a state of
great despondency, when, being of a feeble habit of body, on the 20th of August in the year
1550, there came upon him a most violent fever. At that time Giorgio Vasari was in Florence,
for the purpose of having sent to Rome the marbles for the tombs that Pope Julius III caused
to be erected in S. Pietro a Montorio; and he, as one who sincerely esteemed the talents of
Tribolo, visited and comforted him, beseeching him that he should think of nothing save his
health, and that, when cured, he should return to finish the work of Castello, letting the
rivers go their own way, for they were more likely to drown his fame than to bring him any
profit or honour. This, which he promised to attempt to do, he would, I believe, have done
at all costs, if he had not been prevented by death, which closed his eyes on the 7th of September
in the same year. And so the works of Castello, begun and carried well forward by him, remained
unfinished; for although some work has been done there since his day, now in one part and now
in another, nevertheless they have never been pursued with the diligence and resolution that
were shown when Tribolo was alive and when the Lord Duke was hot in the undertaking. Of a truth,
he who does not press great works forward while those who are having them done are spending
money willingly and devoting their best attention to them, brings it about that those works
are put on one side and left unfinished, which zeal and solicitude could have carried to perfection.
And thus, by the negligence of the workers, the world is left without its adornment, and they
without their honour and fame, for the reason that it rarely happens, as it did to this work
of Castello, that on the death of the first master he who succeeds to his place is willing
to finish it according to his design and model with that modesty with which Giorgio Vasari,
at the commission of the Duke, has caused the great fish-pond of Castello to be finished after
the directions of Tribolo, even as he will do with the other things according as his Excellency
may desire from time to time to have them done.

Tribolo lived sixty-five years, and was interred by the Company of the Scalzo in their place
of burial. He left behind him a son called Raffaello, who has not taken up art, and two daughters,
one of whom is the wife of David, Tribolo's assistant in building all the works at Castello,
who, being a man of judgment and capable in such matters, is now employed on the aqueducts
of Florence, Pisa, and all the other places in the dominion, according as it may please his
Excellency.

PIERINO (PIERO) DA VINCI

LIFE OF PIERINO (PIERO) DA VINCI

SCULPTOR

Although those men are generally the most celebrated who have executed some work excellently
well, nevertheless, if the works already accomplished by any man foreshadow those that he did
not achieve as likely to have been numerous and much more rare, if some accident, unforeseen
and out of the common use, had not happened to interrupt him, it is certain that such a man,
wherever there may be one willing to be just in his appreciation of the talent of another,
will be rightly extolled and celebrated both on the one count and on the other, and as much
for what he would have done as for what he did. The sculptor Vinci, therefore, should not suffer
on account of the short duration of his life, or be robbed thereby of the praise due to him
from the judgment of those who shall come after us, considering that he was only in the first
bloom both of his life and of his studies at the time when he produced and gave to the world
that which everyone admires, and was like to bring forth fruits in greater abundance, if a
hostile tempest had not destroyed both the fruits and the tree.

I remember having said in another place that in the township of Vinci, in the lower Valdarno,
there lived Ser Piero, the father of Leonardo da Vinci, most famous of painters. To this Ser
Piero, after Leonardo, there was born, as his youngest son, Bartolommeo, who, living at Vinci
and attaining to manhood, took for his wife one of the first maidens of that township. Bartolommeo
was desirous of having a male child, and spoke very often to his wife of the greatness of the
genius with which his brother Leonardo had been endowed, praying God that He should make her
worthy that from her there might be born in his house another Leonardo, the first being now
dead. In a short time, therefore, according to his desire, there was born to him a gracious
boy, to whom he wished to give the name of Leonardo; but, being advised by his relatives to
revive the memory of his father, he gave him the name of Piero. Having come to the age of three
years, the boy had a most beautiful countenance, with curly locks, and showed great grace in
every movement, with a quickness of intelligence that was marvellous; insomuch that Maestro
Giuliano del Carmine, an excellent astrologer, and with him a priest devoted to chiromancy,
who were both close friends of Bartolommeo, having arrived in Vinci and lodged in Bartolommeo's
house, looking at the forehead and hand of the boy, revealed to the father, both the astrologer
and the chiromancer together, the greatness of his genius, and predicted that in a short time
he would make extraordinary proficience in the mercurial arts, but that his life would also
be very short. And only too true was their prophecy, for both in the one part and in the other
(when one would have sufficed), in his life as well as in his art, it needs must be fulfilled.

Then, continuing to grow, Piero had his father as his master in letters, but of himself, without
any master, giving his attention to drawing and to making various little puppets in clay, he
showed that the divine inclination of his nature recognized by the astrologer and the chiromancer
was already awakening and beginning to work in him. By reason of which Bartolommeo judged that
his prayer had been heard by God; and, believing that his brother had been restored to him
in his son, he began to think of removing Piero from Vinci and taking him to Florence. Having
then done this without delay, he placed Piero, who was now twelve years of age, with Bandinelli
in Florence, flattering himself that Baccio, having been once the friend of Leonardo, would
take notice of the boy and teach him with diligence; besides which, it seemed to him that Piero
delighted more in sculpture than in painting. But afterwards, coming very often to Florence,
he recognized that Bandinelli was not answering with deeds to his expectations, and was not
taking pains with the boy or showing interest in him, although he saw him to be willing to
learn. For which reason Bartolommeo took him away from Bandinelli, and entrusted him to Tribolo,
who appeared to him to make more effort to help those who were seeking to learn, besides giving
more attention to the studies of art and bearing even greater affection to the memory of Leonardo.

Tribolo was executing some fountains at Castello, the villa of his Excellency; and thereupon
Piero, beginning once more his customary drawing, through having there the competition of the
other young men whom Tribolo kept about him, set himself with great ardour of spirit to study
day and night, being spurred by his nature, which was desirous of excellence and honour, and
being even more kindled by the example of the others like himself whom he saw constantly around
him. Wherefore in a few months he made such progress, that it was a marvel to everyone; and,
having begun to gain some experience with the chisels, he sought to see whether his hand and
his tools would obey in practice the thoughts within him and the designs formed in his brain.
Tribolo, perceiving his readiness, and having had a water-basin of stone made at that very
time for Cristofano Rinieri, gave to Piero a small piece of marble, from which he was to make
for that water-basin a boy that should spurt forth water from the private part. Piero, taking
the marble with great gladness, first made a little model of clay, and then executed the work
with so much grace, that Tribolo and the others ventured the opinion that he would become one
of those who are counted as rare in that art. Tribolo then gave him a Ducal Mazzocchio[3] to
make in stone, to be placed over an escutcheon with the Medici balls, for Messer Pier Francesco
Riccio, the major-domo of the Duke; and he made it with two children with their legs intertwined
together, who are holding the Mazzocchio in their hands and placing it upon the escutcheon,
which is fixed over the door of a house that the major-domo then occupied, opposite to S. Giuliano,
near the Priests of S. Antonio. When this work was seen, all the craftsmen of Florence formed
the same judgment that Tribolo had pronounced before.

         [Footnote 3: See note on p. 132, Vol. II.]

After this, he carved a boy squeezing a fish that is pouring water from its mouth, for the
fountains of Castello. And then, Tribolo having given him a larger piece of marble, Piero made
from it two children who are embracing each other and squeezing fishes, causing water to spout
from their mouths. These children were so graceful in the heads and in their whole persons,
and executed with so beautiful a manner in the legs, arms, and hair, that already it could
be seen that he would have been able to execute the most difficult work to perfection. Taking
heart, therefore, and buying a piece of grey-stone, two braccia and a half in length, which
he took to his house on the Canto alla Briga, Piero began to work at it in the evenings, after
returning from his labours, at night, and on feast-days, insomuch that little by little he
brought it to completion. This was a figure of Bacchus, who had a Satyr at his feet, and with
one hand was holding a cup, while in the other he had a bunch of grapes, and his head was girt
with a crown of grapes; all after a model made by himself in clay. In this and in his other
early works Piero showed a marvellous facility, which never offends the eye, nor is it in any
respect disturbing to him who beholds it. This Bacchus, when finished, was bought by Bongianni
Capponi, and his nephew Lodovico Capponi now has it in a courtyard in his house.

The while that Piero was executing these works, few persons as yet knew that he was the nephew
of Leonardo da Vinci; but his labours making him well known and renowned, by this means his
parentage and his birth were likewise revealed. Wherefore ever afterwards, both from his connection
with his uncle and from his own happy genius, wherein he resembled that great man, he was called
by everyone not Piero, but Vinci.

Now Vinci, while occupied in this manner, had often heard various persons speaking of the things
connected with the arts to be seen in Rome, and extolling them, as is always done by everyone;
wherefore a great desire had been kindled in him to see them, hoping to be able to derive profit
by beholding not only the works of the ancients, but also those of Michelagnolo, and even the
master himself, who was then alive and residing in Rome. He went thither, therefore, in company
with some friends; but after seeing Rome and all that he wished, he returned to Florence, having
reflected judiciously that the things of Rome were as yet too profound for him, and should
be studied and imitated not so early in his career, but after a greater acquaintance with art.

At that time Tribolo had finished a model for the shaft of the fountain in the labyrinth, in
which are some Satyrs in low-relief, four masks in half-relief, and four little boys in the
round, who are seated upon certain caulicoles. Vinci having then returned, Tribolo gave him
this shaft to do, and he executed and finished it, making in it some delicate designs not employed
by any other but himself, which greatly pleased all who saw them. Then, having had the whole
marble tazza of that fountain finished, Tribolo thought of placing on the edge of it four children
in the round, lying down and playing with their arms and legs in the water, in various attitudes;
and these he intended to cast in bronze. Vinci, at the commission of Tribolo, made them of
clay, and they were afterwards cast in bronze by Zanobi Lastricati, a sculptor and a man very
experienced in matters of casting; and they were placed not long since around the fountain,
where they make a most beautiful effect.

There was in daily intercourse with Tribolo one Luca Martini, the proveditor at that time for
the building of the Mercato Nuovo, who, praising highly the excellence in art and the fine
character of Vinci, and desiring to help him, provided him with a piece of marble two-thirds
of a braccio in height and one and a quarter in length. Vinci, taking the marble, made with
it a Christ being scourged at the Column, in which the rules of low-relief and of design may
be seen to have been well observed; and in truth it made everyone marvel, considering that
he had not yet reached the age of seventeen, and had made in five years of study that proficience
in art which others do not achieve save after length of life and great experience of many things.

At this time Tribolo, having undertaken the office of superintendent of the drains in the city
of Florence, ordained in that capacity that the drain in the old Piazza di S. Maria Novella
should be raised from the ground, in such a way that, becoming more capacious, it might be
better able to receive all the waters that ran into it from various quarters. For this work,
then, he commissioned Vinci to make the model of a great mask of three braccia, which with
its open mouth might swallow all the rain-water. Afterwards, by order of the Ufficiali della
Torre, the work was allotted to Vinci, who, in order to execute it more quickly, summoned to
his aid the sculptor Lorenzo Marignolli. In company with this master he finished it, making
it from a block of hard-stone; and the work is such that it adorns the whole Piazza, with no
small advantage to the city.

It now appeared to Vinci that he had made such proficience in art, that it would be a great
benefit to him to see the principal works in Rome, and to associate with the most excellent
craftsmen living there; wherefore, an occasion to go there presenting itself, he seized it
readily. There had arrived from Rome an intimate friend of Michelagnolo Buonarroti, Francesco
Bandini, who, having come to know Vinci by means of Luca Martini, and having praised him highly,
caused him to make a model of wax for a tomb of marble that he wished to erect in his chapel
in S. Croce; and shortly afterwards, on returning to Rome, Vinci having spoken his mind to
Luca Martini, Bandini took him in his company. There Vinci remained a year, studying all the
time, and executed some works worthy of remembrance. The first was a Christ on the Cross in
low-relief, rendering up His spirit to His Father, which was copied from a design done by Michelagnolo.
For Cardinal Ridolfi he added to an antique head a breast in bronze, and made a Venus of marble
in low-relief, which was much extolled. For Francesco Bandini he restored an ancient horse,
of which many pieces were wanting, and made it complete. And in order to give some proof of
gratitude, where he could, to Luca Martini, who was writing to him by every courier, and continually
recommending him to Bandini, it seemed good to Vinci to make a copy in wax, in the round and
two-thirds (of a braccio) in height, of the Moses of Michelagnolo that is on the tomb of Pope
Julius II in S. Pietro in Vincula, than which there is no more beautiful work to be seen; and
so, having made the Moses of wax, he sent it as a present to Luca Martini.

At the time when Vinci was living in Rome and executing the works mentioned above, Luca Martini
was made by the Duke of Florence proveditor of Pisa, and in his office he did not forget his
friend, and therefore wrote to him that he was preparing a room for him and was providing a
block of marble of three braccia, so that he might return from Rome at his pleasure, seeing
that while with him he should want for nothing. Vinci, attracted by this prospect and by the
love that he bore to Luca, resolved to depart from Rome and to take up his abode for some time
in Pisa, where he looked to find opportunities of practising his hand and making trial of his
ability. Having therefore gone to Pisa, he found that the marble was already in his room, prepared
according to the orders of Luca; but, on proceeding to begin to carve from it an upright figure,
he perceived that the marble had in it a crack that diminished it by a braccio. Wherefore,
having resolved to change it into a recumbent figure, he made a young River God holding a vase
that is pouring out water, the vase being upheld by three children, who are assisting the River
God to pour the water forth; and beneath his feet runs a copious stream of water, in which
may be seen fishes darting about and water-fowl flying in various parts. This River God finished,
Vinci made a present of it to Luca, who presented it to the Duchess, to whom it was very dear;
and then, her brother Don Garzia di Toledo being at that time in Pisa, whither he had gone
by galley, she gave it to that brother, who accepted it with much pleasure for the fountains
of his garden in the Chiaia at Naples.

In those days Luca Martini was writing some observations on the Commedia of Dante, and he pointed
out to Vinci the cruelty described by Dante, which the Pisans and Archbishop Ruggieri showed
towards Count Ugolino della Gherardesca, causing him to die of hunger with his four sons in
the tower that is therefore called the Tower of Hunger; whereby he offered to Vinci the occasion
for a new work and the idea of a new design. Wherefore, while he was still working at the River
God described above, he set his hand to making a scene in wax more than a braccio in height
and three-quarters in breadth, to be cast in bronze, in which he represented two of the Count's
sons already dead, one in the act of expiring, and the fourth overcome by hunger and near his
end, but not yet reduced to the last breath; with the father in a pitiful and miserable attitude,
blind and heavy with grief, and groping over the wretched bodies of his sons stretched upon
the ground. In this work Vinci displayed the excellence of design no less than did Dante the
perfection of poetry in his verses, for no less compassion is stirred by the attitudes shaped
in wax by the sculptor in him who beholds them, than is roused in him who listens to the words
and accents imprinted on the living page by the poet. And in order to mark the place where
the event happened, he made at the foot of the scene the River Arno, which occupies its whole
width, for the above-named tower is not far distant from the river in Pisa; while upon that
tower he placed an old woman, naked, withered, and fearsome, representing Hunger, much after
the manner wherein Ovid describes her. The wax model finished, he cast the scene in bronze,
and it gave consummate satisfaction, being held by the Court and by everyone to be no ordinary
work.

Duke Cosimo was then intent on enriching and beautifying the city of Pisa, and he had already
caused the Piazza del Mercato to be built anew, with a great number of shops around it, and
had placed in the centre a column ten braccia high, upon which, according to the design of
Luca, was to stand a statue representing Abundance. Martini, therefore, having spoken to the
Duke and presented Vinci to his notice, easily obtained for him from his Excellency the commission
for that statue, the Duke being always eager to assist men of talent and to bring fine intellects
forward. Vinci executed a statue of travertine, three braccia and a half in height, which was
much extolled by everyone; for at the feet of the figure he placed a little child, who assists
her to support the Cornucopia, carved with much softness and facility, although the stone is
rough and difficult to work.

 da Vinci=. Oxford: Ashmolean
Museum)

Reproduced by permission of the Visitors of the Ashmolean Museum.]

Luca afterwards sent to Carrara to have a block of marble quarried five braccia in height and
three in breadth, from which Vinci, who had once seen some sketches by Michelagnolo of Samson
slaying a Philistine with the jawbone of an ass, proposed to make two figures of five braccia
from his own fancy, after that subject. Whereupon, while the marble was on its way, he set
himself to make several models, all varying one from another, and then fixed on one of them;
and after the block had arrived he began to carve it, and carried it well on, imitating Michelagnolo
in cutting his conception and design little by little out of the stone, without spoiling it
or making any sort of error. He executed all the perforation in this work, whether undercut
or at an easy angle, with great facility, laborious as it was, and the manner of the whole
work was very delicate. But since the labour was very fatiguing, he sought to distract himself
with other studies and works of less importance; and thus he executed during the same time
a little tablet of marble in low-relief, in which he represented Our Lady with Christ, S. John,
and S. Elizabeth, which was held, as it still is, to be a rare work. This came into the hands
of the most illustrious Duchess, and it is now among the choice things in the study of the Duke.

He then set his hand to a scene of marble, one braccio high and one and a half wide, partly
in half-relief and partly in low-relief, in which he represented the restoration of Pisa by
the Duke, who is in the work present in person at the restoration of that city, which is being
pressed forward by his presence. Round the Duke are figures of his virtues; in particular a
Minerva representing his wisdom and also the arts revived by him in that city of Pisa, who
is surrounded by many evils and natural defects of the site, which besiege her on every side,
and afflict her in the manner of enemies; but from all these that city has since been delivered
by the above-mentioned virtues of the Duke. All these virtues round the Duke, with all the
evils round Pisa, were portrayed by Vinci in his scene with most beautiful gestures and attitudes;
but he left it unfinished, to the great regret of those who saw it, on account of the perfection
of the things in it that were completed.

The fame of Vinci having grown and spread abroad by reason of these works, the heirs of Messer
Baldassarre Turini da Pescia besought him that he should make a model of a marble tomb for
Messer Baldassarre; which finished, it pleased them, whereupon they made an agreement that
the tomb should be executed, and Vinci sent Francesco del Tadda, an able master of marble-carving,
to have the marble quarried at Carrara. And when that master had sent him a block of marble,
Vinci began a statue, and carved out of the stone a figure blocked out in such a manner that
one who knew not the circumstances would have said that it was certainly blocked out by Michelagnolo.

The name of Vinci was now very great, and his genius was admired by all, being much more perfect
than could have been expected in one so young, and it was likely to grow even more and to become
greater, and to equal that of any other man in his art, as his own works bear witness, without
any other testimony; when the term prescribed for him by Heaven, being now close at hand, interrupted
all his plans, and caused his rapid progress to cease at one blow, not suffering that he should
climb any higher, and depriving the world of many excellent works of art with which, had Vinci
lived, it would have been adorned. It happened at this time, while Vinci was intent on the
tomb of another, not knowing that his own was preparing, that the Duke had to send Luca Martini
to Genoa on affairs of importance; and Luca, both because he loved Vinci and wished to have
him in his company, and also in order to give him some diversion and recreation, and to enable
him to see Genoa, took him with him on his journey. There, while Martini was transacting his
business, at his suggestion Messer Adamo Centurioni commissioned Vinci to execute a figure
of S. John the Baptist, of which he made the model. But soon he was attacked by fever, and,
to increase his distress, at the same time his friend was also taken away from him; perchance
to provide a way in which fate might be fulfilled in the life of Vinci. For it became necessary
that Luca, in the interests of the business entrusted to him, should go to Florence to find
the Duke; wherefore he parted from his sick friend, to the great grief of both the one and
the other, leaving him in the house of the Abate Nero, to whom he straitly recommended him,
although Piero was very unwilling to remain in Genoa. But Vinci, feeling himself growing worse
every day, resolved to have himself removed from Genoa; and, having caused an assistant of
his own, called Tiberio Cavalieri, to come from Pisa, with his help he had himself carried
to Livorno by water, and from Livorno to Pisa in a litter. Arriving in Pisa at the twenty-second
hour in the evening, all exhausted and broken by the journey, the sea-voyage, and the fever,
during the night he had no repose, and the next morning, at the break of day, he passed to
the other life, not having yet reached the age of twenty-three.

The death of Vinci was a great grief to all his friends, and to Luca Martini beyond measure;
and it grieved all those who had hoped to see from his hands such works as are not often seen.
And Messer Benedetto Varchi, who was much the friend of his abilities and of those of every
master, afterwards wrote the following sonnet in memory of his fame:

  Come potrò da me, se tu non presti
    O forza, o tregua al mio gran duolo interno,
    Soffrirlo in pace mai, Signor superno,
    Che fin quì nuova ognor pena mi desti?
  Dunque de' miei più cari or quegli, or questi,
    Verde sen voli all'alto Asilo eterno,
    Ed io canuto in questo basso inferno
    A pianger sempre e lamentarmi resti?
  Sciolgami almen tua gran bontade quinci,
    Or che reo fato nostro, o sua ventura,
    Ch' era ben degno d' altra vita, e gente,
  Per far più ricco il cielo, e la scultura
    Men bella, e me col buon Martin dolente,
    N' ha privi, o pietà, del secondo Vinci.

BACCIO BANDINELLI

LIFE OF BACCIO BANDINELLI

SCULPTOR OF FLORENCE

In the days when the arts of design flourished in Florence by the favour and assistance of
the elder Lorenzo de' Medici the Magnificent, there lived in the city a goldsmith called Michelagnolo
di Viviano of Gaiuole, who worked excellently well at chasing and incavo for enamels and niello,
and was very skilful in every sort of work in gold and silver plate. This Michelagnolo had
a great knowledge of jewels, and set them very well; and on account of his talents and his
versatility all the foreign masters of his art used to have recourse to him, and he gave them
hospitality, as well as to the young men of the city, insomuch that his workshop was held to
be, as it was, the first in Florence. Of him the Magnificent Lorenzo and all the house of Medici
availed themselves; and for the tourney that Giuliano, the brother of that Magnificent Lorenzo,
held on the Piazza di S. Croce, he executed with subtle craftsmanship all the ornaments of
helmets, crests, and devices. Wherefore he acquired a great name and much intimacy with the
sons of the Magnificent Lorenzo, to whom his work was ever afterwards very dear, and no less
useful to him their acquaintance and friendship, by reason of which, and also by the many works
that he executed throughout the whole city and dominion, he became a man of substance as well
as one of much repute in his art. To this Michelagnolo the Medici, on their departure from
Florence in the year 1494, entrusted much plate in silver and gold, which was all kept in safe
hiding by him and faithfully preserved until their return, when he was much extolled by them
for his fidelity, and afterwards recompensed with rewards.

In the year 1487 there was born to Michelagnolo a son, whom he called Bartolommeo, but afterwards,
according to the Florentine custom, he was called by everyone Baccio. Michelagnolo, desiring
to leave his son heir to his art and connection, took him into his own workshop in company
with other young men who were learning to draw; for that was the custom in those times, and
no one was held to be a good goldsmith who was not a good draughtsman and able to work well
in relief. Baccio, then, in his first years, gave his attention to design according to the
teaching of his father, being assisted no less to make proficience by the competition of the
other lads, among whom he chose as his particular companion one called Piloto, who afterwards
became an able goldsmith; and with him he often went about the churches drawing the works of
the good painters, but also mingling work in relief with his drawing, and counterfeiting in
wax certain sculptures of Donato and Verrocchio, besides executing some works in clay, in the
round.

While still a boy in age, Baccio frequented at times the workshop of Girolamo del Buda, a commonplace
painter, on the Piazza di S. Pulinari. There, at one time during the winter, a great quantity
of snow had fallen, which had been thrown afterwards by the people into a heap in that piazza;
and Girolamo, turning to Baccio, said to him jestingly: "Baccio, if this snow were marble,
could we not carve a fine giant out of it, such as a Marforio lying down?" "We could so," answered
Baccio, "and I suggest that we should act as if it were marble." And immediately, throwing
off his cloak, he set his hands to the snow, and, assisted by other boys, taking away the snow
where there was too much, and adding some in other places, he made a rough figure of Marforio
lying down, eight braccia in length. Whereupon the painter and all the others stood marvelling,
not so much at what he had done as at the spirit with which he had set his hand to a work so
vast, and he so young and so small.

Baccio, indeed, having more love for sculpture than for goldsmith's work, gave many proofs
of this; and when he went to Pinzirimonte, a villa bought by his father, he would often plant
himself before the naked labourers and draw them with great eagerness, and he did the same
with the cattle on the farm. At this time he continued for many days to go in the morning to
Prato, which was near the villa, where he stayed the whole day drawing in the Chapel of the
Pieve from the work of Fra Filippo Lippi, and he did not cease until he had drawn it all, imitating
the draperies of that master, who did them very well. And already he handled with great skill
the style and the pen, and also chalk both red and black, which last is a soft stone that comes
from the mountains of France, and with it, when cut to a point, drawings can be executed with
great delicacy.

These things making clear to Michelagnolo the mind and inclination of his son, he also changed
his intention, like the boy himself, and, being likewise advised by his friends, placed him
under the care of Giovan Francesco Rustici, one of the best sculptors in the city, whose workshop
was still constantly frequented by Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo, seeing the drawings of Baccio
and being pleased with them, exhorted him to persevere and to take to working in relief; and
he recommended strongly to him the works of Donato, saying also that he should execute something
in marble, such as a head or a low-relief. Baccio, encouraged by the comforting advice of Leonardo,
set himself to copy in marble an antique head of a woman, of which he had shaped a model from
one that is in the house of the Medici. This, for his first work, he executed passing well,
and it was held very dear by Andrea Carnesecchi, who received it as a present from Baccio's
father and placed it in his house in the Via Larga, over that door in the centre of the court
which leads into the garden. Now, Baccio continuing to make other models of figures in clay
in the round, his father, wishing not to fail in his duty towards the praiseworthy zeal of
his son, sent for some blocks of marble from Carrara, and caused to be built for him, at the
end of his house at Pinti, a room with lights arranged for working, which looked out upon the
Via Fiesolana. Whereupon he set himself to block out various figures in those marbles, and
one, among others, he carried well on from a piece of marble of two braccia and a half, which
was a Hercules that is holding the dead Cacus beneath him, between his legs. These sketches
were left in the same place in memory of him.

At this time was thrown open to view the cartoon of Michelagnolo Buonarroti, full of nude figures,
which Michelagnolo had executed at the commission of Piero Soderini for the Great Council Chamber,
and, as has been related in another place, all the craftsmen flocked together to draw it on
account of its excellence. Among these came Baccio, and no long time passed before he outstripped
them all, for the reason that he understood nudes, and outlined, shaded, and finished them,
better than any of the other draughtsmen, among whom were Jacopo Sansovino, Andrea del Sarto,
Il Rosso, who was then very young, and Alfonso Berughetta the Spaniard, together with many
other famous craftsmen. Baccio frequented the place more than any of the others, and had a
counterfeit key; and it happened that, Piero Soderini having been deposed from the government
about this time, in the year 1512, and the house of Medici having been restored to power, during
the confusion caused in the Palace by the change of government, Baccio entered in secret, all
by himself, and tore the cartoon into many pieces. Of which not knowing the reason, some said
that Baccio had torn it up in order to have some pieces of the cartoon in his possession for
his own convenience, some declared that he wished to deprive the other young men of that advantage,
so that they might not be able to profit by it and make themselves a name in art, others said
that he was moved to do this by his affection for Leonardo da Vinci, from whom Michelagnolo's
cartoon had taken much of his reputation, and others, again, perhaps interpreting his action
better, attributed it to the hatred which he felt against Michelagnolo and afterwards demonstrated
as long as he lived. The loss of the cartoon was no light one for the city, and very heavy
the blame that was rightly laid upon Baccio by everyone, as an envious and malicious person.

Baccio then executed some pieces of cartoon with lead-white and charcoal, among which was a
very beautiful one of a nude Cleopatra, which he presented to the goldsmith Piloto. Having
already acquired a name as a great draughtsman, he was desirous of learning to paint in colours,
having a firm belief that he would not only equal Buonarroti, but even greatly surpass him
in both fields of art. Now he had executed a cartoon of a Leda, in which Castor and Pollux
were issuing from the egg of the swan embraced by her, and he wished to colour it in oils,
in such a way as to make it appear that the methods of handling the colours and mixing them
together in order to make the various tints, with the lights and shades, had not been taught
to him by others, but that he had found them by himself, and, after pondering how he could
do this, he thought of the following expedient. He besought Andrea del Sarto, who was much
his friend, that he should paint a portrait of him in oils, flattering himself that he would
thereby gain two advantages in accordance with his purpose; one was that he would see the method
of mixing the colours, and the other was that the painted picture would remain in his hands,
which, having seen it executed and understanding it, would assist him and serve him as a pattern.
But Andrea perceived Baccio's intention as he made his request, and was angry at his want of
confidence and astuteness, for he would have been willing to show him what he desired, if Baccio
had asked him as a friend; wherefore, without making any sign that he had found him out, and
refraining from mixing the colours into tints, he placed every sort of colour on his palette
and mingled them together with the brush, and, taking some now from one and now from another
with great dexterity of hand, counterfeited in this way the vivid colouring of Baccio's face.
The latter, both through the artfulness of Andrea and because he had to sit still where he
was if he wished to be painted, was never able to see or learn anything that he wished: and
it was a fine notion of Andrea's, thus at the same time to punish the deceitfulness of his
friend and to display with this method of painting, like a well-practised master, even greater
ability and experience in art.

For all this, however, Baccio did not abandon his determination, in which he was assisted by
the painter Rosso, whom he afterwards asked more openly for the help that he desired. Having
thus learned the methods of colouring, he painted a picture in oils of the Holy Fathers delivered
from the Limbo of Hell by the Saviour, and also a larger picture of Noah drunk with wine and
revealing his nakedness in the presence of his sons. He tried his hand at painting on the wall,
on fresh plaster, and executed on the walls of his house heads, arms, legs, and torsi, coloured
in various ways; but, perceiving that this involved him in greater difficulties than he had
expected, through the drying of the plaster, he returned to his former study of working in
relief. He made a figure of marble, three braccia in height, of a young Mercury with a flute
in his hand, with which he took great pains, and it was extolled and held to be a rare work;
and afterwards, in the year 1530, it was bought by Giovan Battista della Palla and sent to
France to King Francis, who held it in great estimation.

Baccio devoted himself with great study and solicitude to examining and reproducing the most
minute details of anatomy, persevering in this for many months and even years. And certainly
one can praise highly in this man his desire for honour and excellence in art, and for working
well therein; spurred by which desire, and by the most fiery ardour, with which, rather than
with aptitude or dexterity in art, he had been endowed by nature from his earliest years, Baccio
spared himself no fatigue, never relaxed his efforts for a moment, was always intent either
on preparing for work or on working, always occupied, and never to be found idle, thinking
that by continual work he would surpass all others who had ever practised his art, and promising
this result to himself as the reward of his incessant study and endless labour. Continuing,
therefore, his zealous study, he not only produced a great number of sheets drawn in various
ways with his own hand, but also contrived to get Agostino Viniziano, the engraver of prints,
to engrave for him a nude Cleopatra and a larger plate filled with various anatomical studies,
in order to see whether this would be successful; and the latter plate brought him great praise.

He then set himself to make in wax, in full-relief, a figure one braccio and a half in height
of S. Jerome in Penitence, lean beyond belief, which showed on the bones the muscles all withered,
a great part of the nerves, and the skin dry and wrinkled; and with such diligence was this
work executed by him, that all the craftsmen, and particularly Leonardo da Vinci, pronounced
the opinion that there had never been seen a better thing of its kind, nor one wrought with
greater art. This figure Baccio carried to Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici and to his brother
the Magnificent Giuliano, and by its means he made himself known to them as the son of the
goldsmith Michelagnolo; and they, besides praising the work, showed him many other favours.
This was in the year 1512, when they had returned to their house and their government. At this
same time there were being executed in the Office of Works of S. Maria del Fiore certain Apostles
of marble, which were to be set up within the marble tabernacles in those very places in that
church where there are the Apostles painted by the painter Lorenzo di Bicci. At the instance
of the Magnificent Giuliano there was allotted to Baccio a S. Peter, four braccia and a half
in height, which after a long time he brought to completion; and, although it has not the highest
perfection of sculpture, nevertheless good design may be seen in it. This Apostle remained
in the Office of Works from the year 1513 down to 1565, in which year Duke Cosimo, in honour
of the marriage of Queen Joanna of Austria, his daughter-in-law, was pleased to have the interior
of S. Maria del Fiore whitewashed, which church had never been touched from the time of its
erection down to that day, and to have four Apostles set up in their places, among which was
the S. Peter mentioned above.

Now in the year 1515, Pope Leo X passing through Florence on his way to Bologna, the city,
in order to do him honour, ordained, among many other ornaments and festive preparations, that
there should be made a colossal figure of nine braccia and a half, which was to be placed under
an arch of the Loggia in the Piazza near the Palace; and this was given to Baccio. This colossal
figure was a Hercules, and from the premature words of Baccio men expected that it would surpass
the David of Buonarroti, which stood there near it; but the act did not correspond to the word,
nor the work to the boast, and it robbed Baccio of much of the estimation in which he had previously
been held by the craftsmen and by the whole city.

Pope Leo had allotted the work of the ornamentation in marble that surrounds the Chamber of
Our Lady at Loreto, with the statues and scenes, to Maestro Andrea Contucci of Monte Sansovino,
who had already executed some of these with great credit to himself, and was then engaged on
others. Now at this time Baccio took to Rome, for the Pope, a very beautiful model of a nude
David who was holding Goliath under him and was cutting off his head; which model he intended
to execute in bronze or in marble for that very spot in the court of the house of the Medici
in Florence where there once stood the David of Donato, which, at the spoiling of the Medici
Palace, was taken to the Palace that then belonged to the Signori. The Pope, having praised
Baccio, but not thinking that the time had come to execute the David, sent him to Loreto to
Maestro Andrea, to the end that Andrea might give him one of those scenes to do. Having arrived
in Loreto, he was received lovingly by Maestro Andrea and shown much kindness, both on account
of his fame and because the Pope had recommended him, and a piece of marble was assigned to
him from which he should carve the Nativity of Our Lady. Baccio, after making the model, began
the work; but, being a person who was not able to endure a colleague or an equal, and had little
praise for the works of others, he also began to speak hardly before the other sculptors who
were there of the works of Maestro Andrea, saying that he had no design, and he said the same
of the others, insomuch that in a short time he made himself disliked by them all. Whereupon,
all that Baccio had said of Maestro Andrea having come to his ears, he, like a wise man, answered
him lovingly, saying that works are done with the hands and not with the tongue, that good
design is to be looked for not in drawings but in the perfection of the work finished in stone,
and, finally, that in future Baccio should speak of him in a different tone. But Baccio answering
him arrogantly with many abusive words, Maestro Andrea could endure no more, and rushed upon
him in order to kill him; but Bandinelli was torn away from him by some who intervened between
them. Being therefore forced to depart from Loreto, Baccio had his scene carried to Ancona;
but he grew weary of it, although it was near completion, and he went away leaving it unfinished.
This work was finished afterwards by Raffaello da Montelupo, and placed together with the others
of Maestro Andrea; but it is by no means equal to them in excellence, although even so it is
worthy of praise.

Baccio, having returned to Rome, obtained a promise from the Pope, through the favour of Cardinal
Giulio de' Medici, always ready to assist the arts and their followers, that he should be commissioned
to execute some statue for the court of the Medici Palace in Florence. Having therefore come
to Florence, he made an Orpheus of marble, who with his playing and his singing is charming
Cerberus, and moving Hell itself to compassion. He imitated in this work the Apollo of the
Belvedere at Rome, and it was very highly praised, and rightly, because, although the Orpheus
of Baccio is not in the attitude of the Apollo Belvedere, nevertheless it reproduces very successfully
the manner of the torso and of all the members. The statue, when finished, was carried by order
of Cardinal Giulio, while he was governing Florence, into the above-mentioned court, and placed
on a carved base executed by the sculptor Benedetto da Rovezzano. But since Baccio never paid
any attention to the art of architecture, he took no heed of the genius of Donatello, who had
made for the David that was there before a simple column on which rested a cleft base in open-work,
to the end that one entering from without might see from the street-door the inner door, that
of the other court, opposite to him; and, not having such foresight, he caused his statue to
be placed on a broad and wholly solid base, of such a kind that it blocks the view of him who
enters and covers the opening of the inner door, so that in passing through the first door
one does not see whether the palace extends farther inwards or finishes in the first court.

Cardinal Giulio had caused a most beautiful villa to be erected below Monte Mario at Rome,
and wished to set up two giants in this villa; and he had them executed in stucco by Baccio,
who was always delighted to make giants. These figures, eight braccia in height, stand one
on either side of the gate that leads into the wood, and they were held to be reasonably beautiful.
While Baccio was engaged on these works, never abandoning his practice of drawing, he caused
Marco da Ravenna and Agostino Viniziano, the engravers of prints, to engrave a scene drawn
by him on a very large sheet, in which was the Slaughter of the Innocents, so cruelly done
to death by Herod. This scene, which was filled by him with a quantity of nudes, both male
and female, children living and dead, and women and soldiers in various attitudes, made known
the fine draughtsmanship that he showed in figures and his knowledge of muscles and of all
the members, and it won him great fame over all Europe. He also made a most beautiful model
of wood, with the figures in wax, of a tomb for the King of England, which in the end was not
carried out by Baccio, but was given to the sculptor Benedetto da Rovezzano, who executed it
in metal.

There had recently returned from France Cardinal Bernardo Divizio of Bibbiena, who, perceiving
that King Francis possessed not a single work in marble, whether ancient or modern, although
he much delighted in such things, had promised his Majesty that he would prevail on the Pope
to send him some beautiful work. After this Cardinal there came to the Pope two Ambassadors
from King Francis, and they, having seen the statues of the Belvedere, lavished all the praise
at their command on the Laocoon. Cardinals de' Medici and Bibbiena, who were with them, asked
them whether the King would be glad to have a work of that kind; and they answered that it
would be too great a gift. Then the Cardinal said to them: "There shall be sent to his Majesty
either this one or one so like it that there shall be no difference." And, having resolved
to have another made in imitation of it, he remembered Baccio, whom he sent for and asked whether
he had the courage to make a Laocoon equal to the original. Baccio answered that he was confident
that he could make one not merely equal to it, but even surpassing it in perfection. The Cardinal
then resolved that the work should be begun, and Baccio, while waiting for the marble to come,
made one in wax, which was much extolled, and also executed a cartoon in lead-white and charcoal
of the same size as the one in marble. After the marble had come and Baccio had caused an enclosure
with a roof for working in to be erected for himself in the Belvedere, he made a beginning
with one of the boys of the Laocoon, the larger one, and executed this in such a manner that
the Pope and all those who were good judges were satisfied, because between his work and the
ancient there was scarcely any difference to be seen. But after setting his hand to the other
boy and to the statue of the father, which is in the middle, he had not gone far when the Pope
died. Adrian VI being then elected, he returned with the Cardinal to Florence, where he occupied
himself with his studies in design. After the death of Adrian and the election of Clement VII,
Baccio went post-haste to Rome in order to be in time for his coronation, for which he made
statues and scenes in half-relief by order of his Holiness. Then, having been provided by the
Pope with rooms and an allowance, he returned to his Laocoon, a work which was executed by
him in the space of two years with the greatest excellence that he ever achieved. He also restored
the right arm of the ancient Laocoon, which had been broken off and never found, and Baccio
made one of the full size in wax, which so resembled the ancient work in the muscles, in force,
and in manner, and harmonized with it so well, that it showed how Baccio understood his art;
and this model served him as a pattern for making the whole arm of his own Laocoon. This work
seemed to his Holiness to be so good, that he changed his mind and resolved to send other ancient
statues to the King, and this one to Florence; and to Cardinal Silvio Passerino of Cortona,
his Legate in Florence, who was then governing the city, he sent orders that he should place
the Laocoon at the head of the second court in the Palace of the Medici. This was in the year 1525.

This work brought great fame to Baccio, who, after finishing the Laocoon, set himself to draw
a scene on a sheet of royal folio laid open, in order to carry out a design of the Pope, who
wished to have the Martyrdom of S. Cosimo and S. Damiano painted on one wall of the principal
chapel of S. Lorenzo in Florence, and on the other that of S. Laurence, when he was put to
death by Decius on the gridiron. Baccio then drew with great subtlety the story of S. Laurence,
in which he counterfeited with much judgment and art figures both clothed and nude, different
attitudes and gestures in the bodies and limbs, and various movements in those who are standing
about S. Laurence, engaged in their dreadful office, and in particular the cruel Decius, who
with threatening brow is urging on the fiery death of the innocent Martyr, who, raising one
arm to Heaven, recommends his spirit to God. With this scene Baccio so satisfied the Pope,
that he took steps to have it engraved on copper by Marc'Antonio Bolognese, which was done
by Marc'Antonio with great diligence; and his Holiness created Baccio, in order to do honour
to his talents, a Chevalier of S. Pietro.

After these things Baccio returned to Florence, where he found that Giovan Francesco Rustici,
his first master, was painting a scene of the Conversion of S. Paul; for which reason he undertook
to make in a cartoon, in competition with his master, a nude figure of a young S. John in the
desert, who is holding a lamb with the left arm and raising the right to Heaven. Then, having
caused a panel to be prepared, he set himself to colour it, and when it was finished he exposed
it to view in the workshop of his father Michelagnolo, opposite to the descent that leads from
Orsanmichele to the Mercato Nuovo. The design was praised by the craftsmen, but not so much
the colouring, because it was somewhat crude and painted in no beautiful manner. But Baccio
sent it as a present to Pope Clement, who had it placed in his guardaroba, where it may still
be found.

As far back as the time of Leo X there had been quarried at Carrara, together with the marbles
for the façade of S. Lorenzo in Florence, another block of marble nine braccia and a half high
and five braccia wide at the foot. With this block of marble Michelagnolo Buonarroti had thought
of making a giant in the person of Hercules slaying Cacus, intending to place it in the Piazza
beside the colossal figure of David formerly made by him, since both the one and the other,
David and Hercules, were emblems of the Palace. He had made several designs and various models
for it, and had sought to gain the favour of Pope Leo and of Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, saying
that the David had many defects caused by the sculptor Maestro Andrea, who had first blocked
it out and spoiled it. But by reason of the death of Leo the façade of S. Lorenzo was for a
time abandoned, and also this block of marble. Now afterwards, Pope Clement having conceived
a desire to avail himself of Michelagnolo for the tombs of the heroes of the house of Medici,
which he wished to have constructed in the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo, it became once more necessary
to quarry marbles; and the head of these works, keeping the accounts of the expenses, was Domenico
Buoninsegni. This man tried to tempt Michelagnolo to make a secret partnership with him in
the matter of the stone-work for the façade of S. Lorenzo; but Michelagnolo refused, not consenting
that his genius should be employed in defrauding the Pope, and Domenico conceived such hatred
against him that he went about ever afterwards opposing his undertakings, in order to annoy
and humiliate him, but this he did covertly. He thus contrived to have the façade discontinued
and the sacristy pushed forward, which two works, he said, were enough to keep Michelagnolo
occupied for many years. And as for the marble for the making of the giant, he urged the Pope
that it should be given to Baccio, who at that time had nothing to do; saying that through
the emulation of two men so eminent his Holiness would be served better and with more diligence
and promptitude, rivalry stimulating both the one and the other in his work. The counsel of
Domenico pleased the Pope, and he acted in accordance with it. Baccio, having obtained the
marble, made a great model in wax, which was a Hercules who, having fixed the head of Cacus
between two stones with one knee, was constraining him with great force with the left arm,
holding him crouching under his legs in a distorted attitude, wherein Cacus revealed his suffering
and the strain of the weight of Hercules upon him, which was rending asunder every least muscle
in his whole body. Hercules, likewise, with his head bent down close against his enemy, grinding
and gnashing his teeth, was raising the right arm and with great vehemence giving him another
blow with his club, in order to dash his head to pieces.

Michelagnolo, as soon as he had heard that the marble had been given to Baccio, was very much
displeased; but, for all the efforts that he made in this matter, he was never able to turn
the Pope from his purpose, so completely had he been satisfied by Baccio's model; to which
reason were added his promises and boasts, for he boasted that he would surpass the David of
Michelagnolo, and he was also assisted by Buoninsegni, who said that Michelagnolo desired everything
for himself. Thus was the city deprived of a rare ornament, such as that marble would undoubtedly
have been when shaped by the hand of Buonarroti. The above-mentioned model of Baccio is now
to be found in the guardaroba of Duke Cosimo, by whom it is held very dear, and by the craftsmen
as a rare work.

Baccio was sent to Carrara to see this marble, and the Overseers of the Works of S. Maria del
Fiore were commissioned to transport it by water, along the River Arno, as far as Signa. The
marble having been conveyed there, within a distance of eight miles from Florence, when they
set about removing it from the river in order to transport it by land, the river being too
low from Signa to Florence, it fell into the water, and on account of its great size sank so
deep into the sand, that the Overseers, with all the contrivances that they used, were not
able to drag it out. For which reason, the Pope wishing that the marble should be recovered
at all costs, by order of the Wardens of Works Pietro Rosselli, an old builder of great ingenuity,
went to work in such a manner that, having diverted the course of the water into another channel
and cut away the bank of the river, with levers and windlasses he moved it, dragged it out
of the Arno, and brought it to solid ground, for which he was greatly extolled. Tempted by
this accident to the marble, certain persons wrote verses, both Tuscan and Latin, ingeniously
ridiculing Baccio, who was detested for his loquacity and his evil-speaking against Michelagnolo
and all the other craftsmen. One among them took for his verses the following subject, saying
that the marble, after having been approved by the genius of Michelagnolo, learning that it
was to be mangled by the hands of Baccio, had thrown itself into the river out of despair at
such an evil fate.

While the marble was being drawn out of the water, a difficult process which took time, Baccio
found, on measuring it, that it was neither high enough nor wide enough to enable him to carve
the figures of his first model. Whereupon he went to Rome, taking the measurements with him,
and made known to the Pope how he was constrained by necessity to abandon his first design
and make another. He then made several models, and out of their number the Pope was most pleased
with one in which Hercules had Cacus between his legs, and, grasping his hair, was holding
him down after the manner of a prisoner; and this one they resolved to adopt and to carry into
execution. On returning to Florence, Baccio found that the marble had been conveyed into the
Office of Works of S. Maria del Fiore by Pietro Rosselli, who had first placed on the ground
some planks of walnut-wood planed square, and laid lengthways, which he kept changing according
as the marble moved forward, under which and upon those planks he placed some round rollers
well shod with iron, so that by pulling the marble with three windlasses, to which he had attached
it, little by little he brought it with ease into the Office of Works. The block having been
set up there, Baccio began a model in clay as large as the marble and shaped according to the
last one which he had made previously in Rome; and he finished it, working with great diligence,
in a few months. But with all this it appeared to many craftsmen that there was not in this
model that spirited vivacity that the action required, nor that which he had given to his first
model. Afterwards, beginning to work at the marble, Baccio cut it away all round as far as
the navel, laying bare the limbs in front, and taking care all the time to carve the figures
in such a way that they might be exactly like those of the large model in clay.

At this same time Baccio had undertaken to execute in painting an altar-piece of considerable
size for the Church of Cestello, and for this he had made a very beautiful cartoon containing
a Dead Christ surrounded by the Maries, with Nicodemus and other figures; but, for a reason
that we shall give below, he did not paint the altar-piece. He also made at this time, in order
to paint a picture, a cartoon in which was Christ taken down from the Cross and held in the
arms of Nicodemus, with His Mother, who was standing, weeping for Him, and an Angel who was
holding in his hands the Nails and the Crown of Thorns. Setting himself straightway to colour
it, he finished it quickly and placed it on exhibition in the workshop of his friend Giovanni
di Goro, the goldsmith, in the Mercato Nuovo, in order to hear the opinions of men and particularly
what Michelagnolo said of it. Michelagnolo was taken by the goldsmith Piloto to see it, and,
after he had examined every part, he said that he marvelled that so good a draughtsman as Baccio
should allow a picture so crude and wanting in grace to leave his hands, that he had seen the
most feeble painters executing their works in a better manner, and that this was no art for
Baccio. Piloto reported Michelagnolo's judgment to Baccio, who, for all the hatred that he
felt against him, recognized that he spoke the truth. Certainly Baccio's drawings were very
beautiful, but in colours he executed them badly and without grace, and he therefore resolved
to paint no more with his own hand; but he took into his service one who handled colours passing
well, a young man called Agnolo, the brother of the excellent painter Franciabigio, who had
died a few years before. To this Agnolo he desired to entrust the execution of the altar-piece
for Cestello, but it remained unfinished, the reason of which was the change of government
in Florence, which took place in the year 1527, when the Medici left Florence after the sack
of Rome. For Baccio did not think himself safe, having a private feud with a neighbour at his
villa of Pinzirimonte, who was of the popular party; and after he had buried at that villa
some cameos and little antique figures of bronze, which belonged to the Medici, he went off
to live in Lucca. There he remained until the time when the Emperor Charles V came to receive
his crown at Bologna; whereupon he presented himself before the Pope and then went with him
to Rome, where he was given rooms in the Belvedere, as before.

While Baccio was living there, his Holiness resolved to fulfil a vow that he had made when
he was shut up in the Castello di S. Angelo; which vow was that he would place on the summit
of the great round tower of marble, which is in front of the Ponte di Castello, seven large
figures of bronze, each six braccia in length, and all lying down in different attitudes, as
it were vanquished by an Angel that he wished to have set up on the centre of the tower, upon
a column of variegated marble, the Angel being of bronze with a sword in the hand. By this
figure of the Angel he wished to represent the Angel Michael, the guardian and protector of
the Castle, whose favour and assistance had delivered him and brought him out of that prison;
and the seven recumbent figures were to personify the seven Mortal Sins, demonstrating that
with the help of the victorious Angel he had conquered and thrown to the ground his enemies,
evil and impious men, who were represented by those seven figures of the seven Mortal Sins.
For this work his Holiness caused a model to be made; which having pleased him, he ordained
that Baccio should begin to make the figures in clay of the size that they were to be, in order
to have them cast afterwards in bronze. Baccio began the work, and finished in one of the apartments
in the Belvedere one of those figures in clay, which was much extolled. At the same time, also,
in order to divert himself, and wishing to see how he would succeed in casting, he made many
little figures in the round, two-thirds of a braccio in height, as of Hercules, Venus, Apollo,
Leda, and other fantasies of his own, which he caused to be cast in bronze by Maestro Jacopo
della Barba of Florence; and they succeeded excellently well. He presented them afterwards
to his Holiness and to many lords; and some of them are now in the study of Duke Cosimo, among
a collection of more than a hundred antique figures, all very choice, and others that are modern.

At this same time Baccio had made a scene of the Deposition from the Cross with little figures
in low-relief and half-relief, which was a rare work; and he had it cast with great diligence
in bronze. When finished, he presented it in Genoa to Charles V, who held it very dear; and
a sign of this was that his Majesty gave Baccio a Commandery of S. Jago, and made him a Chevalier.
From Prince Doria, also, he received many courtesies; and from the Republic of Genoa he had
the commission for a statue of marble six braccia high, which was to be a Neptune in the likeness
of Prince Doria, to be set up on the Piazza in memory of the virtues of that Prince and of
the extraordinary benefits that his native country of Genoa had received from him. This statue
was allotted to Baccio at the price of a thousand florins, of which he received five hundred
at that time; and he went straightway to Carrara to block it out at the quarry of Polvaccio.

While the popular government was ruling Florence, after the departure of the Medici, Michelagnolo
Buonarroti was employed on the fortifications of the city; and there was shown to him the marble
that Baccio had blocked out, together with the model of the Hercules and Cacus, the intention
being that if the marble had not been cut away too much Michelagnolo should take it and carve
from it two figures after his own design. Michelagnolo, having examined the block, thought
of a different subject; and, abandoning the Hercules and Cacus, he chose the subject of Samson
holding beneath him two Philistines whom he had cast down, one being already dead, and the
other still alive, against whom he was aiming a blow with the jawbone of an ass, seeking to
kill him. But even as it often happens that the minds of men promise themselves at times certain
things the opposite of which is determined by the wisdom of God, so it came to pass then, for,
war having arisen against the city of Florence, Michelagnolo had other things to think about
than polishing marble, and was obliged from fear of the citizens to withdraw from the city.
Afterwards, the war being finished and peace made, Pope Clement caused Michelagnolo to return
to Florence in order to finish the Sacristy of S. Lorenzo, and sent Baccio to see to the completion
of the giant. Baccio, while engaged in this, took up his abode in the Palace of the Medici;
and, writing almost every week to his Holiness in order to make a show of devotion, he entered,
besides dealing with matters of art, into particulars relating to the citizens and those who
were administering the government, with an odious officiousness likely to bring upon him even
more ill-will than he had awakened before. Whereupon, when Duke Alessandro returned from the
Court of his Majesty to Florence, the citizens made known to him the sinister policy that Baccio
was pursuing against them; from which it followed that his work of the giant was hindered and
retarded by the citizens by every means in their power.

At this time, after the war of Hungary, Pope Clement and the Emperor Charles held a conference
at Bologna, whither there went Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici and Duke Alessandro; and it occurred
to Baccio to go and kiss the feet of his Holiness. He took with him a panel, one braccio high
and one and a half wide, of Christ being scourged at the Column by two nude figures, which
was in half-relief and very well executed; and he gave this panel to the Pope, together with
a portrait-medal of his Holiness, which he had caused to be made by Francesco dal Prato, his
familiar friend, the reverse of the medal being the Flagellation of Christ. This gift was very
acceptable to his Holiness, to whom Baccio described the annoyances and impediments that he
had experienced in the execution of his Hercules, praying him that he should prevail upon the
Duke to give him the means to carry it to completion. He added that he was envied and hated
in that city; and, being a very devil with his wit and his tongue, he persuaded the Pope to
induce the Duke to see that his work should be brought to completion and set up in its place
in the Piazza.

Death had now snatched away the goldsmith Michelagnolo, the father of Baccio, who during his
lifetime had undertaken to make for the Wardens of Works of S. Maria del Fiore, by order of
the Pope, a very large cross of silver, all covered with scenes in low-relief of the Passion
of Christ. This cross, for which Baccio had made the figures and scenes in wax, to be afterwards
cast in silver, Michelagnolo had left unfinished at his death; and Baccio, having the work
in his hands, together with many libbre of silver, sought to persuade his Holiness to have
it finished by Francesco dal Prato, who had gone with him to Bologna. But the Pope, perceiving
that Baccio wished not only to withdraw from his father's engagements, but also to make something
out of the labours of Francesco, gave Baccio orders that the silver and the scenes, those merely
begun as well as those finished, should be given to the Wardens of Works, that the account
should be settled, and that the Wardens should melt all the silver of that cross, in order
to make use of it for the necessities of the church, which had been stripped of its ornaments
at the time of the siege; and to Baccio he caused one hundred florins of gold and letters of
recommendation to be given, to the end that he might return to Florence and finish the work
of the giant.

While Baccio was at Bologna, Cardinal Doria, having heard that he was about to depart, went
to the pains of seeking him out, and threatened him with many reproaches and abusive words,
for the reason that he had broken his pledge and failed in his duty by neglecting to finish
the statue of Prince Doria and leaving it only blocked out at Carrara, after taking five hundred
crowns in payment; on which account, said the Cardinal, if Andrea could get Baccio into his
hands, he would make him pay for it at the galleys. Baccio defended himself humbly and with
soft words, saying that he had been delayed by a sufficient hindrance, but that he had in Florence
a block of marble of the same height, from which he had intended to carve that figure, and
that when he had carved and finished it he would send it to Genoa. And so well did he contrive
to speak and to excuse himself that he succeeded in escaping from the presence of the Cardinal.
After this he returned to Florence, and caused the base for the giant to be taken in hand;
and, himself working continuously at the figure, in the year 1534 he finished it completely.
But Duke Alessandro, on account of the hostile reports of the citizens, did not take steps
to have it set up in the Piazza.

The Pope had returned to Rome many months before this, and desired to erect two tombs of marble
in the Minerva, one for Pope Leo and one for himself; and Baccio, seizing this occasion, went
to Rome. Thereupon the Pope resolved that Baccio should make those tombs after he had succeeded
in setting up the giant on the Piazza; and his Holiness wrote to the Duke that he should give
Baccio every convenience for placing his Hercules in position there. Whereupon, after an enclosure
of planks had been made all round, the base was built of marble, and at the foot of it they
placed a stone with letters in memory of Pope Clement VII, and a good number of medals with
the heads of his Holiness and of Duke Alessandro. The giant was then taken from the Office
of Works, where it had been executed; and in order to convey it with greater ease, without
damaging it, they made round it a scaffolding of wood, with ropes passing under the legs and
cords supporting it under the arms and at every other part; and thus, suspended in the air
between the beams in such a way that it did not touch the wood, little by little, by means
of compound pulleys and windlasses and ten pairs of oxen, it was drawn as far as the Piazza.
Great assistance was rendered by two thick, semi-cylindrical beams, which were fixed lengthways
along the foot of the scaffolding, in the manner of a base, and rested on other similar beams
smeared with soap, which were withdrawn and replaced by workmen in succession, according as
the structure moved forward; and with these ingenious contrivances the giant was conveyed safely
and without much labour to the Piazza. The charge of all this was given to Baccio d'Agnolo
and the elder Antonio da San Gallo, the architects to the Office of Works, who afterwards with
other beams and a double system of compound pulleys set the statue securely on its base.

It would not be easy to describe the concourse and multitude that for two days occupied the
whole Piazza, flocking to see the giant as soon as it was uncovered; and various judgments
and opinions were heard from all kinds of men, every one censuring the work and the master.
There were also attached round the base many verses, both Latin and Tuscan, in which it was
pleasing to see the wit, the ingenious conceits, and the sharp sayings of the writers; but
they overstepped all decent limits with their evil-speaking and their biting and satirical
compositions, and Duke Alessandro, considering that, the work being a public one, the indignity
was his, was forced to put in prison some who went so far as to attach sonnets openly and without
scruple to the statue; which proceeding soon stopped the mouths of the critics.

When Baccio examined his work in position, it seemed to him that the open air was little favourable
to it, making the muscles appear too delicate. Having therefore caused a new enclosure of planks
to be made around it, he attacked it again with his chisels, and, strengthening the muscles
in many places, gave the figures stronger relief than they had before. Finally, the work was
uncovered for good; and by everyone able to judge it has always been held to be not only a
triumph over difficulties, but also very well studied, with every part carefully considered,
and the figure of Cacus excellently adapted to its position. It is true that the David of Michelagnolo,
which is beside Baccio's Hercules, takes away not a little of its glory, being the most beautiful
colossal figure that has ever been made; for in it is all grace and excellence, whereas the
manner of Baccio is entirely different. But in truth, considering Baccio's Hercules by itself,
one cannot but praise it highly, and all the more because it is known that many sculptors have
since tried to make colossal statues, and not one has attained to the standard of Baccio, who,
if he had received as much grace and facility from nature as he took pains and trouble by himself,
would have been absolutely perfect in the art of sculpture.

Desiring to know what was being said of his work, he sent to the Piazza a pedagogue whom he
kept in his house, telling him that he should not fail to report to him the truth of what he
might hear said. The pedagogue, hearing nothing but censure, returned sadly to the house, and,
when questioned by Baccio, answered that all with one voice were abusing the giants, and that
they pleased no one. "And you," asked Baccio, "what do you say of them?" "I speak well of them,"
he replied, "and say, may it please you, that they please me." "I will not have them please
you," said Baccio, "and you, also, must speak ill of them, for, as you may remember, I never
speak well of anyone; and so we are quits." Thus Baccio concealed his vexation, and it was
always his custom to act thus, pretending not to care for the censure that any man laid on
his works. Nevertheless, it is likely enough that his resentment was considerable, because
when a man labours for honour, and then obtains nothing but censure, one cannot but believe,
although that censure may be unjust and undeserved, that it afflicts him secretly in his heart
and torments him continually. He was consoled in his displeasure by an estate, which was given
to him in addition to his payment, by order of Pope Clement. This gift was doubly dear to him,
first because it was useful for its revenue and was near his villa of Pinzirimonte, and then
because it had previously belonged to Rignadori, his mortal enemy, who had just been declared
an outlaw, and with whom he had always been at strife on account of the boundary of this property.

At this time a letter was written to Duke Alessandro by Prince Doria, asking that he should
prevail upon Baccio to finish his statue, now that the giant was completely finished, and saying
that he was ready to revenge himself on Baccio if he did not do his duty; at which Baccio was
so frightened that he would not trust himself to go to Carrara. However, having been reassured
by Cardinal Cibo and Duke Alessandro, he went there, and, working with some assistants, proceeded
to carry the statue forward. The Prince had himself informed every day as to how much Baccio
was doing; wherefore, receiving a report that the statue was not of that excellence which had
been promised, he gave Baccio to understand that, if he did not serve him well, he would make
him smart for it. Baccio, hearing this, spoke very ill of the Prince; which having come to
the Prince's ears, he determined to get him into his hands at all costs, and to take vengeance
upon him by putting him in wholesome fear of the galleys. Whereupon Baccio, seeing certain
persons spying and keeping a watch upon him, became suspicious, and, being a shrewd and resolute
man, left the work as it was and returned to Florence.

About this time a son was born to Baccio from a woman whom he kept in his house, and to this
son, Pope Clement having died in those days, he gave the name of Clemente, in memory of that
Pontiff, who had always loved and favoured him. After the death of Pope Clement, he heard that
Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici, Cardinal Innocenzio Cibo, Cardinal Giovanni Salviati, and Cardinal
Niccolò Ridolfi, together with Messer Baldassarre Turini da Pescia, being the executors of
the Pope's will, had commissions to give for the two marble tombs of Leo and Clement, which
were to be placed in the Minerva. For these tombs Baccio in the past had already made the models;
but the work had been promised recently to the Ferrarese sculptor Alfonso Lombardi through
the favour of Cardinal de' Medici, whose servant he was. This Alfonso, by the advice of Michelagnolo,
had changed the design of the tombs, and he had already made the models for them, but without
any contract for the commission, relying wholly on promises, and expecting every day to have
to go to Carrara to quarry the marble. While the time was slipping away in this manner, it
happened that Cardinal Ippolito died of poison on his way to meet Charles V. Baccio, hearing
this, went without wasting any time to Rome, where he was first received by the sister of Pope
Leo, Madonna Lucrezia Salviati de' Medici, to whom he strove to prove that no one could do
greater honour to the remains of those great Pontiffs than himself, with his ability in art,
adding that Alfonso was a sculptor without power of design and without skill and judgment in
the handling of marble, and that he was not able to execute so honourable an undertaking save
only with the help of others. He also used many other devices, and so went to work in various
ways and by various means that he succeeded in changing the purpose of those lords, who finally
entrusted to Cardinal Salviati the charge of making an agreement with Baccio.

At this time the Emperor Charles V had arrived in Naples, and in Rome Filippo Strozzi, Anton
Francesco degli Albizzi, and the other exiles were seeking to arrange with Cardinal Salviati
to go and set his Majesty against Duke Alessandro; and they were with the Cardinal at all hours.
Baccio was also all day long in Salviati's halls and apartments, waiting to have the contract
made for the tombs, but not able to bring matters to a head, because of the Cardinal's preoccupation
with the affairs of the exiles; and they, seeing Baccio in those rooms morning and evening,
grew suspicious of this, and, fearing lest he might be there to spy upon their movements and
give information to the Duke, some of the young men among them agreed to follow him secretly
one evening and put him out of the way. But Fortune, coming to his aid in time, brought it
about that the two other Cardinals, with Messer Baldassarre da Pescia, undertook to finish
Baccio's business. Knowing that Baccio was worth little as an architect, they had caused a
design to be made by Antonio da San Gallo, which pleased them, and had ordained that all the
mason's work to be done in marble should be executed under the direction of the sculptor Lorenzetto,
and that the marble statues and scenes should be allotted to Baccio. Having arranged the matter
in this way, they finally made the contract with Baccio, who therefore appeared no more about
the house of Cardinal Salviati, withdrawing himself just in time; and the exiles, the occasion
having passed by, thought nothing more about him.

After these things Baccio made two models of wood, with the statues and scenes in wax. These
models had the bases solid, without projections, and on each base were four fluted Ionic columns,
which divided the space into three compartments, a large one in the middle, where in each there
was a Pope in full pontificals seated upon a pedestal, who was giving the benediction, and
smaller spaces, each with a niche containing a figure in the round and standing upright, four
braccia high; which figures, representing Saints, stood on either side of those Popes. The
order of the composition had the form of a triumphal arch, and above the columns that supported
the cornice was a marble tablet three braccia in height and four braccia and a half in width,
in which was a scene in half-relief. In the scene above the statue of Pope Leo, which statue
had on either side of it in the niches S. Peter and S. Paul, was his Conference with King Francis
at Bologna, and this story of Leo in the middle, above the columns, was accompanied by two
smaller scenes, in one of which, that above S. Peter, was the Saint restoring a dead man to
life, and in the other, that above S. Paul, that Saint preaching to the people. In the scene
above Pope Clement, which corresponded to that mentioned above, was that Pontiff crowning the
Emperor Charles at Bologna, and on either side of it are two smaller scenes, in one of which
is S. John the Baptist preaching to the people, and in the other S. John the Evangelist raising
Drusiana from the dead; and these have below them in the niches the same Saints, four braccia
high, standing on either side of the statue of Pope Clement, as with that of Leo.

In this structure Baccio showed either too little religion or too much adulation, or both together,
in that he thought fit that the first founders--after Christ--of our religion, men deified
and most dear to God, should give way to our Popes, and placed them in positions unworthy of
them and inferior to those of Leo and Clement. Certain it is that this design of his, even
as it was displeasing to God and to the Saints, so likewise gave no pleasure to the Popes or
to any other man, for the reason, it appears to me, that religion--and I mean our own, the
true religion--should be placed by mankind before all other interests and considerations. And,
on the other hand, he who wishes to exalt and honour any other person, should, I think, be
temperate and restrained, and confine himself within certain limits, so that his praise and
honour may not become another thing--I mean senseless adulation, which first disgraces the
praiser, and also gives no pleasure to the person praised, if he has any proper feeling, but
does quite the contrary. Baccio, in doing what I have described, made known to everyone that
he had much goodwill and affection indeed towards the Popes, but little judgment in exalting
and honouring them in their sepulchres.

The models described above were taken by Baccio to the garden of Cardinal Ridolfi at S. Agata
on Monte Cavallo, where his lordship was entertaining Cibo, Salviati, and Messer Baldassarre
da Pescia to dinner, they having assembled together there in order to settle all that was necessary
in the matter of the tombs. While they were at table, then, there arrived the sculptor Solosmeo,
an amusing and outspoken person, who was always ready to speak ill of anyone, and little the
friend of Baccio. When the message was brought to those lords that Solosmeo was seeking admittance,
Ridolfi ordered that he should be ushered in, and then, turning to Baccio, said to him: "I
wish that we should hear what Solosmeo says of our bestowal of these tombs. Raise that door-curtain,
Baccio, and stand behind it." Baccio immediately obeyed, and, when Solosmeo had entered and
had been invited to drink, they then turned to the subject of the tombs allotted to Baccio;
whereupon Solosmeo reproached the Cardinals for having made a bad choice, and went on to speak
all manner of evil against Baccio, taxing him with ignorance of art, avarice, and arrogance,
and going into many particulars in his criticisms. Baccio, who stood hidden behind the door-curtain,
was not able to contain himself until Solosmeo should have finished, and, bursting out scowling
and full of rage, said to Solosmeo: "What have I done to you, that you should speak of me with
such scant respect?" Dumbfounded at the appearance of Baccio, Solosmeo turned to Ridolfi and
said: "What tricks are these, my lord? I want nothing more to do with priests!" and took himself
off. The Cardinals had a hearty laugh both at the one and at the other; and Salviati said to
Baccio: "You hear the opinion of your brothers in art. Go and give them the lie with your work."

Baccio then began the work of the statues and scenes, but his performances by no means corresponded
to his promises and his duty towards those Pontiffs, for he used little diligence in the figures
and scenes, and left them badly finished and full of defects, being more solicitous about drawing
his money than about working at the marble. Now his patrons became aware of Baccio's procedure,
and repented of what they had done; but the two largest pieces of marble remained, those for
the two statues that were still to be executed, one of Leo seated and the other of Clement,
and these they ordered him to finish, beseeching him that he should do better in them. But
Baccio, having already drawn all the money, entered into negotiations with Messer Giovan Battista
da Ricasoli, Bishop of Cortona, who was in Rome on business of Duke Cosimo's, to depart from
Rome and go to Florence in order to serve Cosimo in the matter of the fountains of his villa
of Castello and the tomb of his father, Signor Giovanni. The Duke having answered that Baccio
should come, he set off for Florence without a word, leaving the work of the tombs unfinished
and the statues in the hands of two assistants. The Cardinals, hearing of this, allotted those
two statues of the Popes, which still remained to be finished, to two sculptors, one of whom
was Raffaello da Montelupo, who received the statue of Pope Leo, and the other Giovanni di
Baccio, to whom was given the statue of Clement. They then gave orders that the masonry and
all that was prepared should be put together, and the work was erected; but the statues and
scenes were in many parts neither pumiced nor polished, so that they brought Baccio more discredit
than fame.

Arriving in Florence, Baccio found that the Duke had sent the sculptor Tribolo to Carrara to
quarry the marble for the fountains of Castello and the tomb of Signor Giovanni; and he so
wrought upon the Duke that he wrested the tomb of Signor Giovanni from the hands of Tribolo,
demonstrating to his Excellency that the marbles for such a work were already in great measure
in Florence. Thus, little by little, he penetrated into the confidence of the Duke, insomuch
that both for this reason and for his arrogance everyone was afraid of him. He then proposed
to the Duke that the tomb of Signor Giovanni should be erected in the Chapel of the Neroni,
a narrow, confined, and mean place, in S. Lorenzo, being too ignorant or not wishing to suggest
that for so great a Prince it was proper that a new chapel should be built on purpose. He also
prevailed on the Duke to demand from Michelagnolo, on Baccio's behalf, many pieces of marble
that he had in Florence; and when the Duke had obtained them from Michelagnolo, and Baccio
from the Duke, among those marbles being some blocked out figures and a statue carried well
on towards completion by Michelagnolo, Bandinelli, taking them all over, hacked and broke to
pieces everything that he could find, thinking that by so doing he was avenging himself on
Michelagnolo and causing him displeasure. He found, moreover, in the same room in S. Lorenzo
wherein Michelagnolo worked, two statues in one block of marble, representing Hercules crushing
Antæus, which the Duke was having executed by the sculptor Fra Giovanni Agnolo. These were
well advanced; but Baccio, saying to the Duke that the friar had spoilt that marble, broke
it into many pieces.

In the end, he constructed all the base of the tomb, which is an isolated pedestal about four
braccia on every side, and has at the foot a socle with a moulding in the manner of a base,
which goes right round, and with a fillet at the top, such as is generally made for pedestals;
and above this a cyma three-quarters of a braccio in height, which goes inwards in a concave
curve, inverted, after the manner of a frieze, on which are carved some horse's skulls bound
one to another with draperies; and above the whole was to be a smaller pedestal, with a seated
statue of four braccia and a half, armed in the ancient fashion, and holding in the hand the
baton of a condottiere captain of armies, which was to represent the person of the invincible
Signor Giovanni de' Medici. This statue was begun by him from a block of marble, and carried
well on, but never finished or placed on the base built for it. It is true that on the front
of that base he finished entirely a scene of marble in half-relief, with figures about two
braccia high, in which he represented Signor Giovanni seated, to whom are being brought many
prisoners, soldiers, women with dishevelled hair, and nude figures, but all without invention
and without revealing any feeling. At the end of the scene, indeed, there is a figure with
a pig on the shoulder, which is said to have been made by Baccio to represent Messer Baldassarre
da Pescia, in derision; for Baccio looked upon him as his enemy, since about this time Messer
Baldassarre, as has been related above, had allotted the two statues of Leo and Clement to
other sculptors, and, moreover, had so gone to work in Rome that Baccio had perforce to restore
at great inconvenience the money that he had received beyond his due for those statues and figures.

During this time Baccio had given his attention to nothing else but demonstrating to Duke Cosimo
how much the glory of the ancients had lived through their statues and buildings, saying that
his Excellency should seek to obtain in the same way immortality for himself and his actions
in the ages to come. Then, after he had brought the tomb of Signor Giovanni near completion,
he set about planning to make the Duke begin some great and costly work, which might take a
very long time. Duke Cosimo had ceased to inhabit the Palace of the Medici, and had returned
with his Court to live in the Palace in the Piazza, which was formerly occupied by the Signoria;
and this he was daily rearranging and adorning. Now he had said to Baccio that he had a desire
to make a public audience-chamber, both for the foreign Ambassadors and for his citizens and
the subjects of the State; and Baccio, with Giuliano di Baccio d'Agnolo, went about thinking
how to suggest to him that he should erect an ornamental work of Fossato stone and marble,
thirty-eight braccia in width and eighteen in height. This ornamental work, they proposed,
should serve as the audience-chamber, and should be in the Great Hall of the Palace, at that
end which looks towards the north. The audience-chamber was to have a space of fourteen braccia
in depth, the ascent to which was to be by seven great steps; and it was to be closed in front
by a balustrade, excepting the entrance in the middle. At the end of the hall were to be three
great arches, two of which were to serve for windows, being divided up by columns, four to
each, two of Fossato stone and two of marble; and above this was to curve a round arch with
a frieze of brackets, which were to form on the outer side the ornament of the façade of the
Palace, and on the inner side to adorn in the same manner the façade of the hall. The arch
in the middle, forming not a window, but a niche, was to be accompanied by two other similar
niches, which were to be at the ends of the audience-chamber, one on the east and the other
on the west, and adorned with four round Corinthian columns, which were to be ten braccia high
and to form a projection at the ends. In the central façade were to be four pilasters, which
were to serve as supports between one arch and another to the architrave, frieze, and cornice
running right round both above the arches and above the columns. These pilasters were to have
between one and another a space of about three braccia, and in each of these spaces was to
be a niche four braccia and a half in height, to contain statues, by way of accompaniment to
the great niche in the middle of the façade and the two at the sides; in each of which niches
Baccio wished to place three statues.

Baccio and Giuliano had in mind, in addition to the ornament of the inner façade, another larger
ornament of extraordinary cost and grandeur for the outer façade. The hall being awry and out
of square, this ornament was to reduce that outer side to a square form; and there was to be
a projection of six braccia right round the walls of the Palazzo Vecchio, with a range of columns
fourteen braccia high supporting other columns, between which were to be arches, forming a
loggia below, right round the Palace, where there are the Ringhiera and the Giants. Above this,
again, was to be another range of pilasters, with arches between them in the same manner, running
all the way round the windows of the Palazzo Vecchio, so as to make a façade right round the
Palace; and above these pilasters was to be yet another range of arches and pilasters, after
the manner of a theatre, with the battlements of that Palace, finally, forming a cornice to
the whole structure.

Knowing that this was a work of vast expense, Baccio and Giuliano consulted together that they
should not reveal their conception to the Duke, save only with regard to the ornament of the
audience-chamber within the hall, and that of the façade of Fossato stone on the side towards
the Piazza, stretching to the length of twenty-four braccia, which is the breadth of the hall.
Designs and plans of this work were made by Giuliano, and with these in his hand Baccio spoke
to the Duke, to whom he pointed out that in the large niches at the sides he wished to place
statues of marble four braccia high, seated on pedestals--namely, Leo X in the act of restoring
peace to Italy, and Clement VII crowning Charles V, with two statues in smaller niches within
the large ones, on either side of the Popes, which should represent the virtues practised and
put into action by them. For the niches four braccia high between the pilasters, in the central
façade, he wished to make upright statues of Signor Giovanni, Duke Alessandro, and Duke Cosimo,
together with many decorations of various fantasies in carving, and a pavement all of variegated
marbles of different colours.

This ornament much pleased the Duke, thinking that with this opportunity it should be possible
in time to bring to completion, as has since been done, the body of that hall, with the rest
of the decorations and the ceiling, in order to make it the most beautiful hall in Italy. And
so great was his Excellency's desire that this work should be done, that he assigned for its
execution such a sum of money as Baccio wished and demanded every week. A beginning was made
with the quarrying and cutting of the Fossato stone, in order to make the ornamentation in
the form of the base, columns, and cornices; and Baccio required that all should be done and
carried to completion by the stone-cutters of the Office of Works of S. Maria del Fiore. This
work was certainly executed by those masters with great diligence; and if Baccio and Giuliano
had urged it on, they would have finished and built in all the ornaments of stone very quickly.
But Baccio gave his attention to nothing save to having the statues blocked out, finishing
few of them entirely, and to drawing his salary, which the Duke gave him every month, besides
paying for his assistants and meeting every sort of expense that he incurred in the work, and
giving him five hundred crowns for one of the statues finished by him in marble; wherefore
the end of this work was never in sight.

Even so, if Baccio and Giuliano, being engaged on a work of such importance, had brought the
head of that hall into square, as they could have done, instead of putting right only half
of the eight braccia by which it was awry, and leaving several parts badly proportioned, such
as the central niche and the two large ones at the sides, which are squat, and the members
of the cornices, which are too slight for so great a body; if, as they might have done, they
had gone higher with the columns, thus giving greater grandeur, a better manner, and more invention
to that work; and if, also, they had brought the uppermost cornice into touch with the level
of the original old ceiling above, they would have shown more art and judgment, nor would all
that labour have been spent in vain and wasted so thoughtlessly, as has since been evident
to those to whom, as will be related, it has fallen to put it right and finish it. For, in
spite of all the pains and thought afterwards devoted to it, there are many defects and errors
in the door of entrance and in the relation of the niches in the side-walls, in which it has
since been seen to be necessary to change the form of many parts, although it has never yet
been found possible, without demolishing the whole, to correct the divergence from the square
or to prevent this from being revealed in the pavement and the ceiling. It is true that in
the manner in which they arranged it, even as it now stands, there is proof of great craftsmanship
and pains, and it deserves no little praise for the many stones worked with the bevel-square,
which slant away obliquely by reason of the hall being awry; and as for diligence and excellence
in the working, laying, and joining together of the stones, nothing better could be seen or
done. But the whole work would have succeeded much better if Baccio, who never held architecture
in any account, had availed himself of some judgment more able than that of Giuliano, who,
although he was a good master in wood and had some knowledge of architecture, was yet not the
sort of man to be suitable for such a work as that was, as experience has proved. For this
reason the work was pursued over a period of many years, without much more than half being
built. Baccio finished and placed in the smaller niches the statue of Signor Giovanni and that
of Duke Alessandro, both in the principal façade, and on a pedestal of bricks in the great
niche the statue of Pope Clement; and he also brought to completion the statue of Duke Cosimo.
In the last he took no little pains with the head, but for all this the Duke and the gentlemen
of the Court said that it did not resemble him in the least. Wherefore Baccio, having already
made one of marble, which is now in one of the upper apartments in the same Palace, and which
looked very well and was the best head that he ever made, defended himself and sought to cover
up the defects and worthlessness of the new head with the excellence of the old. However, hearing
that head censured by everyone, one day in a rage he knocked it off, with the intention of
making another and fixing it in its place; but in the end he never made it at all. It was a
custom of Baccio's to add pieces of marble both small and large to the statues that he executed,
feeling no annoyance in doing this, and making light of it. He did this with one of the heads
of Cerberus in the group of Orpheus; in the S. Peter that is in S. Maria del Fiore he let in
a piece of drapery; in the case of the Giant of the Piazza, as may be seen, he joined two pieces--a
shoulder and a leg--to the Cacus, and in many other works he did the same, holding to such
ways as generally damn a sculptor completely.

Having finished these statues, he set his hand to the statue of Pope Leo for this work, and
carried it well forward. Then, perceiving that the work was proving very long, that he was
now never likely to attain to the completion of his original design for the façades right round
the Palace, that a great sum of money had been spent and much time consumed, and that for all
this the work was not half finished and gained little approval from the people, he set about
thinking of some new fantasy, and began to attempt to remove from the Duke's mind the thought
of the Palace, believing that his Excellency also was weary of that work. Thus, then, having
made enemies of the proveditors and of all the stone-cutters in the Office of Works of S. Maria
del Fiore, which was under his authority, while the statues that were destined for the audience-chamber
were, after his fashion, some only blocked out and others finished and placed in position,
and the ornamentation in great part built up, wishing to conceal the many defects that were
in the work and little by little to abandon it, he suggested to the Duke that the Wardens of
Works of S. Maria del Fiore were throwing away his money and no longer doing anything of any
importance. He said that he had therefore thought that his Excellency would do well to divert
all that useless expenditure of the Office of Works into making the octagonal choir of the
church and the ornaments of the altar, the steps, the daïses of the Duke and the magistrates,
and the stalls in the choir for the canons, chaplains, and clerks, according as was proper
for so honourable a church. Of this choir Filippo di Ser Brunellesco had left the model in
that simple framework of wood which previously served as the choir in the church, intending
in time to have it executed in marble, in the same form, but more ornate. Baccio reflected,
besides the considerations mentioned above, that in this choir he would have occasion to make
many statues and scenes in marble and in bronze for the high-altar and all around the choir,
and also for two pulpits of marble that were to be in the choir, and that the base of the outer
side of the eight faces might be adorned with many scenes in bronze let into the marble ornamentation.
Above this he thought to place a range of columns and pilasters to support the cornice right
round, and four arches distributed according to the cross of the church; of which arches one
was to form the principal entrance, opposite to another rising above the high-altar, and the
two others were to be at the sides, one on the right hand and another on the left, and below
these last two were to be placed the pulpits. Over the cornice was to be a range of balusters,
curving right round above the eight sides, and over the balusters a garland of candelabra,
in order, as it were, to crown the choir with lights according to the seasons, as had always
been the custom while the wooden model of Brunelleschi was there.

Pointing out all this to the Duke, Baccio said that his Excellency, with the revenues of the
Office of Works--namely, of S. Maria del Fiore and of its Wardens--and with that which his
liberality might add, in a short time could adorn that temple and give great grandeur and magnificence
to the same, and consequently to the whole city, of which it was the principal temple, and
would leave an everlasting and honourable memorial of himself in such a structure; and besides
all this, he said, his Excellency would be giving him an opportunity of exerting his powers
and of making many good and beautiful works, and also, by displaying his ability, of acquiring
for himself name and fame with posterity, which should be pleasing to his Excellency, since
he was his servant and had been brought up by the house of the Medici. With these designs and
these words Baccio so moved the Duke, that, consenting that such a structure should be erected,
his Excellency commissioned him to make a model of the whole choir. Departing from the Duke,
then, Baccio went to his architect, Giuliano di Baccio d'Agnolo, and discussed the whole matter
with him; and, after they had gone to the place and examined everything with diligence, they
resolved not to depart from the form of Filippo's model, but to follow it, adding only other
ornaments in the shape of columns and projections, and enriching it as much as they could while
preserving the original design and form. But it is not the number of parts and ornaments that
renders a fabric rich and beautiful, but their excellence, however few they may be, provided
also that they are set in their proper places and arranged together with due proportion; it
is these that give pleasure and are admired, and, having been executed with judgment by the
craftsman, afterwards receive praise from all others. This Giuliano and Baccio do not seem
to have considered or observed, for they chose a subject involving much labour and endless
pains, but wanting in grace, as experience has proved.

The design of Giuliano, as may be seen, was to place at the corners of all the eight sides
pilasters bent round the angles, the whole work being composed in the Ionic Order; and these
pilasters, since in the ground-plan they were made, with all the rest of the work, to diminish
towards the centre of the choir and were not even, necessarily had to be broad on the outer
side and narrow on the inner, which is a breach of proportionate measurement. And since each
pilaster was bent according to the inner angles of the eight sides, the extension-lines towards
the centre so diminished it that the two columns that were one on either side of the pilaster
at the corner caused it to appear too slender, and produced an ungraceful effect both in it
and in the whole work, both on the outer side and likewise on the inner, although the measurements
there are correct. Giuliano also made the model of the whole altar, which stood at a distance
of one braccio and a half from the ornament of the choir. For the upper part of this Baccio
afterwards made in wax a Christ lying dead, with two Angels, one of whom was holding His right
arm and supporting His head on one knee, and the other was holding the Mysteries of the Passion;
which statue of Christ occupied almost the whole altar, so that there would scarcely have been
room to celebrate Mass, and Baccio proposed to make this statue about four braccia and a half
in length. He made, also, a projection in the form of a pedestal behind the altar, attached
to it in the centre, with a seat upon which he afterwards placed a seated figure of God the
Father, six braccia high and giving the benediction, and accompanied by two other Angels, each
four braccia high, kneeling at the extreme corners of the predella of the altar, on the level
on which rested the feet of God the Father. This predella was more than a braccio in height,
and on it were many stories of the Passion of Jesus Christ, which were all to be in bronze,
and on the corners of the predella were the Angels mentioned above, both kneeling and each
holding in the hands a candelabrum; which candelabra of the Angels served to accompany eight
large candelabra placed between the Angels, and three braccia and a half in height, which adorned
that altar; and God the Father was in the midst of them all. Behind God the Father was left
a space of half a braccio, in order that there might be room to ascend to kindle the lights.

Under the arch that stood opposite to the principal entrance of the choir, on the base that
ran right round, on the outer side, Baccio had placed, directly under the centre of that arch,
the Tree of the Fall, round the trunk of which was wound the Ancient Serpent with a human face,
and two nude figures were about the Tree, one being Adam and the other Eve. On the outer side
of the choir, to which those figures had their faces turned, there ran lengthways along the
base a space about three braccia long, which was to contain the story of their Creation, either
in marble or in bronze; and this was to be pursued along the faces of the base of the whole
work, to the number of twenty-one stories, all from the Old Testament. And for the further
enrichment of this base he had made for each of the socles upon which stood the columns and
pilasters, a figure of some Prophet, either draped or nude, to be afterwards executed in marble--a
great work, truly, and a marvellous opportunity, likely to reveal all the art and genius of
a perfect master, whose memory should never be extinguished by any lapse of time. This model
was shown to the Duke, and also a double series of designs made by Baccio, which, both from
their variety and their number, and likewise from their beauty--for the reason that Baccio
worked boldly in wax and drew very well--pleased his Excellency, and he ordained that the masonry-work
should be straightway taken in hand, devoting to it all the expenditure administered by the
Office of Works, and giving orders that a great quantity of marble should be brought from Carrara.

Baccio, on his part, also set to work to make a beginning with the statues; and among the first
was an Adam who was raising one arm, and was about four braccia in height. This figure was
finished by Baccio, but, since it proved to be narrow in the flanks and somewhat defective
in other parts, he changed it into a Bacchus, and afterwards gave it to the Duke, who kept
it in his Palace many years, in his chamber; and not long ago it was placed in a niche in the
ground-floor apartments which his Excellency occupies in summer. He had also made a seated
figure of Eve of the same size, which he had half finished: but it was abandoned on account
of the Adam, which it was to have accompanied. For, having made a beginning with another Adam,
in a different form and attitude, it became necessary for him to change also the Eve, and the
original seated figure was converted by him into a Ceres, which he gave to the most illustrious
Duchess Leonora, together with an Apollo, which was another nude that he had executed; and
her Excellency had them placed in the ornament in front of the fish-pond, the design and architecture
of which are by Giorgio Vasari, in the gardens of the Pitti Palace. Baccio worked at these
two figures with very great zeal, thinking to satisfy the craftsmen and all the world as well
as he had satisfied himself; and he finished and polished them with all the diligence and lovingness
that were in him. He then set up these figures of Adam and Eve in their place, but, when uncovered,
they experienced the same fate as his other works, and were torn to pieces with savage bitterness
in sonnets and Latin verses, one going to the length of suggesting that even as Adam and Eve,
having defiled Paradise by their disobedience, deserved to be driven out, so these figures,
defiling the earth, deserved to be expelled from the church. Nevertheless the statues are well-proportioned,
and beautiful in many parts; and although there is not in them that grace which has been spoken
of in other places, and which he was not able to give to his works, yet they display so much
art and design, that they deserve no little praise. A lady who had set herself to examine these
statues, being asked by some gentlemen what she thought of these naked bodies, answered, "About
the man I can give no judgment;" and, being pressed to give her opinion of the woman, she replied
that in the Eve there were two good points, worthy of considerable praise, in that she was
white and firm; whereby she contrived ingeniously, while seeming to praise, covertly to deal
a shrewd blow to the craftsman and his art, giving to the statue the praise proper to the female
body, which it is also necessary to apply to the marble, the material, and which is true of
it, but not of the work or of the craftsmanship, for by such praise the craftsmanship is not
praised. Thus, then, that shrewd lady hinted that in her opinion nothing could be praised in
that statue save the marble.

Baccio afterwards set his hand to the statue of the Dead Christ, which likewise not succeeding
as he had expected, he abandoned it when it was already well advanced, and, taking another
block of marble, began another Christ in an attitude different from the first, and together
with that the Angel who supports the head of Christ on one leg and with one hand His arm; and
he did not rest until he had finished entirely both the one figure and the other. When arrangements
were made to set it up on the altar, it proved to be so large that it occupied too much space,
and there was no room left for the ministrations of the priest; and although this statue was
passing good, and even one of Baccio's best, nevertheless the people--the ordinary citizens
no less than the priests--could never have their fill of speaking ill of it and picking it
to pieces. Recognizing that to uncover unfinished works injures the reputation of a craftsman
in the eyes of all those who are not of the profession, or have no knowledge of art, or have
not seen the models, Baccio resolved, in order to accompany the statue of Christ and to complete
the altar, to make the statue of God the Father, for which a very beautiful block of marble
had come from Carrara. And he had already carried it well forward, making it half nude after
the manner of a Jove, when, since it did not please the Duke and appeared to Baccio himself
to have certain defects, he left it as it was, and even so it is still to be found in the Office
of Works.

Baccio cared nothing for the words of others, but gave his attention to making himself rich
and buying property. He bought a most beautiful farm, called Lo Spinello, on the heights of
Fiesole, and another with a very beautiful house called Il Cantone, in the plain above San
Salvi, on the River Affrico, and a great house in the Via de' Ginori, which he was enabled
to acquire by the moneys and favours of the Duke. Having thus secured his own position, Baccio
thenceforward cared little to work or to exert himself; and although the tomb of Signor Giovanni
was unfinished, the audience-chamber of the Great Hall only begun, and the choir and altar
behindhand, he paid little attention to the words of others or to the censure that was laid
upon him on that account. However, having erected the altar and set into position the marble
base upon which was to stand the statue of God the Father, he made a model for this and finally
began it, and, employing stone-cutters, proceeded to carry it slowly forward.

There came from France in those days Benvenuto Cellini, who had served King Francis in the
matter of goldsmith's work, of which he was the most famous master of his day; and he had also
executed some castings in bronze for that King. Benvenuto was introduced to Duke Cosimo, who,
desiring to adorn the city, showed also to him much favour and affection, and commissioned
him to make a statue of bronze about five braccia high, of a nude Perseus standing over a nude
woman representing Medusa, whose head he had cut off; which work was to be placed under one
of the arches of the Loggia in the Piazza. While he was executing the Perseus, Benvenuto also
did other things for the Duke. Now, even as it happens that the potter is always the jealous
enemy of the potter, and the sculptor of the sculptor, Baccio was not able to endure the various
favours shown to Benvenuto. It appeared to him a strange thing, also, that Benvenuto should
have thus changed in a moment from a goldsmith into a sculptor, nor was he able to grasp in
his mind how a man who was used to making medals and little things, could now execute colossal
figures and giants. Baccio could not conceal his thoughts, but expressed them freely, and he
found a man able to answer him; for, Baccio saying many of his biting words to Benvenuto in
the presence of the Duke, Benvenuto, who was no less proud than himself, took pains to be even
with him. And thus, arguing often on the matters of art and their own works, and pointing out
each other's defects, they would utter the most slanderous words of one another in the presence
of the Duke, who, because he took pleasure in this and recognized true genius and acuteness
in their biting phrases, had given them full liberty and licence to say whatever they pleased
about one another before him, provided that they did not remember their quarrel elsewhere.

This rivalry, or rather, enmity, was the reason that Baccio pressed forward his statue of God
the Father; but he was no longer receiving from the Duke those favours to which he had been
accustomed, and he consoled himself for this by paying court and doing service to the Duchess.
One day, among others, that they were railing at one another as usual and laying bare many
of each others' actions, Benvenuto, glaring at Baccio and threatening him, said: "Prepare yourself
for another world, Baccio, for I mean to send you out of this one." And Baccio answered: "Let
me know a day beforehand, so that I may confess and make my will, and may not die like the
sort of beast that you are." By reason of which the Duke, who for many months had found amusement
in their quarrels, bade them be silent, fearing some evil ending, and caused them to make a
portrait-bust of himself from the girdle upwards, both to be cast in bronze, to the end that
he who should succeed best should carry off the honours.

Amid this rivalry and contention Baccio finished his figure of God the Father, which he arranged
to have placed in the church on the base beside the altar. This figure was clothed and six
braccia high, and he erected and completely finished it. But, in order not to leave it unaccompanied,
he summoned from Rome the sculptor Vincenzio de' Rossi, his pupil, wishing to execute in clay
for the altar all that remained to be done in marble; and he caused Vincenzio to assist him
in finishing the two Angels who are holding the candelabra at the corners, and the greater
part of the scenes on the predella and the base. Having then set everything upon the altar,
in order to see how his work, when finished, was to stand, he strove to prevail on the Duke
to come and see it, before he should uncover it. But the Duke would never go, and, although
entreated by the Duchess, who favoured Baccio in this matter, he would never let himself be
shaken, and did not go to see it, being angered because among so many works Baccio had never
finished one, even after his Excellency had made him rich and had won odium among the citizens
by honouring him highly and doing him many favours. For all this his Excellency was disposed
to assist Clemente, the natural son of Baccio--a young man of ability, who had made considerable
proficience in design--because it was likely to fall to him in time to finish his father's works.

At this same time, which was in the year 1554, there came from Rome, where he had been working
for Pope Julius III, Giorgio Vasari of Arezzo, in order to serve his Excellency in many works
that he was intending to execute, and in particular to decorate the Palace on the Piazza, and
to renovate it with new constructions, and to finish the Great Hall, as he was afterwards seen
to do. In the following year Giorgio Vasari summoned from Rome and engaged in the Duke's service
the sculptor Bartolommeo Ammanati, to the end that he might execute the other façade in the
above-named Hall, opposite to the audience-chamber begun by Baccio, and a fountain in the centre
of that façade; and a beginning was straightway made with executing a part of the statues that
were to go into that work. Baccio, perceiving that the Duke was employing others, recognized
that he did not wish to use his services any longer; at which, feeling great displeasure and
vexation, he had become so strange and so irritable that no one could have any dealings with
him either in his house or out of it, and to his son Clemente he behaved very strangely, keeping
him in want of everything. For this reason Clemente, who had made a large head of his Excellency
in clay, in order to execute it in marble for the statue of the audience-chamber, sought leave
of the Duke to depart and go to Rome, on account of his father's strangeness; and the Duke
said that he would not fail him. Baccio, at the departure of Clemente, who had asked leave
of him, would not give him anything, although the young man had been a great help to him in
Florence, and, indeed, Baccio's right hand in every matter; nevertheless, he thought nothing
of getting rid of him. The young man, having arrived in Rome at an unfavourable season, died
in the same year both from over-study and from wild living, leaving in Florence an example
of his handiwork in an almost finished head of Duke Cosimo in marble, which is very beautiful,
and was afterwards placed by Baccio over the principal door of his house in the Via de' Ginori.
Clemente also left well advanced a Dead Christ who is supported by Nicodemus, which Nicodemus
is a portrait from life of Baccio; and these statues, which are passing good, Baccio set up
in the Church of the Servites, as we shall relate in the proper place. The death of Clemente
was a very great loss to Baccio and to art, and Bandinelli recognized this after he was dead.

Baccio uncovered the altar of S. Maria del Fiore, and the statue of God the Father was criticized.
The altar has remained as was described above, nor has anything more been done to it since;
but the work of the choir has been continued.

Many years before, there had been quarried at Carrara a great block of marble ten braccia and
a half in height and five braccia in width, of which having received notice, Baccio rode to
Carrara and made a contract for it with him to whom it belonged, giving him fifty crowns as
earnest-money. He then returned to Florence and so pestered the Duke, that, by the favour of
the Duchess, he obtained the commission to make from it a giant, which was to be placed in
the Piazza, at the corner where the Lion was; on which spot was to be made a great fountain
to spout water, in the middle of which was to be a Neptune in his chariot, drawn by sea-horses,
and this figure was to be carved out of the above-mentioned block of marble. For this figure
Baccio made more than one model, and showed them to his Excellency; but the matter stood thus,
without anything more being done, until the year 1559, at which time the owner of the marble,
having come from Carrara, asked to be paid the rest of the money, saying that otherwise he
would give back the fifty crowns and break it into several pieces, in order to sell it, since
he had received many offers. Orders were given by the Duke to Giorgio Vasari that he should
have the marble paid for; which having been heard throughout the world of art, and also that
the Duke had not yet made a free gift of the marble to Baccio, Benvenuto, and likewise Ammanati,
bestirring themselves, each besought the Duke that he should be allowed to make a model in
competition with Baccio, and that his Excellency should deign to give the marble to him who
had shown the greatest ability in his model. The Duke did not deny to either of them the right
to make a model, or deprive them of the hope that he who should acquit himself the best might
be chosen to execute the statue. His Excellency knew that in ability, judgment, and design
Baccio was still better than any of the sculptors who were in his service, if only he would
consent to take pains, and he welcomed this competition, in order to incite Baccio to acquit
himself better and to do the most that he could. Bandinelli, having seen this competition on
his shoulders, was greatly troubled by it, fearing the loss of the Duke's favour more than
any other thing, and once more he set himself to making models. He was most assiduous in waiting
on the Duchess, and so wrought upon her, that he obtained leave to go to Carrara in order to
make arrangements for having the marble brought to Florence. Having arrived in Carrara, he
had the marble so reduced in size--as he had planned to do--that he made it a sorry thing,
and robbed both himself and the others of a noble opportunity and of the hope of ever making
from it a beautiful and magnificent work. On returning to Florence, there was a long contention
between Benvenuto and him, Benvenuto saying to the Duke that Baccio had spoilt the marble before
it had been assigned to him. Finally the Duchess so went to work that the marble became Baccio's;
and orders were given that it should be taken from Carrara to the sea-shore, and a boat was
made ready with the proper appliances, which was to convey it up the Arno as far as Signa.
Baccio also caused a room to be built up in the Loggia of the Piazza, wherein to work at the
marble.

In the meantime he had set his hand to executing cartoons, in order to have some pictures painted
which were to adorn the apartments of the Pitti Palace. These pictures were painted by a young
man called Andrea del Minga, who handled colour passing well. The stories painted in the pictures
were the Creation of Adam and Eve, and their Expulsion from Paradise by the Angel, a Noah,
and a Moses with the Tables; which finished, he then presented them to the Duchess, seeking
to obtain her favour in his difficulties and contentions. And, in truth, if it had not been
for that lady, who loved him for his abilities and held him on his feet, Baccio would have
fallen headlong down and would have lost completely the favour of the Duke. The Duchess also
made much use of Baccio in the Pitti garden, where she had caused to be constructed a grotto
full of tufa and sponge-stone formed by the action of water, and containing a fountain; and
for this Baccio had caused his pupil, Giovanni Fancelli, to execute in marble a large basin
and some goats of the size of life, which spout forth water, and likewise, for a fish-pond,
after a model made by himself, a countryman who is emptying a barrel full of water. For these
reasons the Duchess was constantly helping and favouring Baccio with the Duke, who finally
gave him leave to begin the great model of the Neptune; on which account he once more sent
to Rome for Vincenzio de' Rossi, who had previously departed from Florence, with the intention
of making him help to execute it.

While these preparations were in progress, Baccio was seized with a desire to finish the statue
of the Dead Christ supported by Nicodemus, which his son Clemente had carried well forward;
for he had heard that Buonarroti was finishing one in Rome that he had begun to carve from
a large block of marble, containing five figures, which was to be placed on his tomb in S.
Maria Maggiore. Out of emulation with him Baccio set to work on his group with the greatest
assiduity, with assistants, until he had finished it. And meanwhile he was going about among
the principal churches of Florence, seeking for a place where he might set up that work and
also make a tomb for himself; but for long he found no place for the tomb that could content
him, until he resolved on a chapel in the Church of the Servites which belongs to the family
of the Pazzi. The owners of this chapel, at the request of the Duchess, granted the place to
Baccio, without divesting themselves of the rights of ownership and of the devices of their
house that were there; and they granted him only this, that he should erect an altar of marble
and place upon it the statues mentioned above, and make his tomb at the foot of it. Afterwards,
also, he came to an agreement with the friars of that convent with regard to the other matters
appertaining to the celebration of Mass. During this time, then, Baccio was causing the altar
and the marble base to be built, in order to place upon it the above-named statues; and, when
he had finished it, he proposed to lay in that tomb, in which he wished to be laid himself
together with his wife, the bones of his father Michelagnolo, which, at his death, he had caused
to be placed in a vault in the same church. These bones of his father he chose to lay piously
in that tomb with his own hands; whereupon it happened that either because he felt sorrow and
a shock to his mind in handling his father's bones, or because he exerted himself too much
in transferring those bones with his own hands and in rearranging the marbles, or from both
reasons together, he was so overcome that he felt ill and had to go home, and, his malady growing
daily worse, in eight days he died, at the age of seventy-two, having been up to that time
robust and vigorous, and without having ever suffered much illness during the whole of his
life. He was buried with honourable obsequies, and laid beside his father's bones in the above-mentioned
tomb constructed by himself, on which is this epitaph:--

             D. O. M.
  BACCIUS BANDINELL. DIVI JACOBI EQUES
    SUB HAC SERVATORIS IMAGINE,
  A SE EXPRESSA, CUM JACOBA DONIA
    UXORE QUIESCIT, AN. S. MDLIX.

He left behind him both sons and daughters, who were the heirs to his many possessions in lands,
houses, and money, which he bequeathed to them; and to the world he left the works in sculpture
described by us, and designs in great numbers, which are in the possession of his family, and
in our book there are some executed with the pen and with chalk, than which it is certain that
nothing better could be done.

The marble for the giant was left more in dispute than ever, because Benvenuto was always about
the Duke, and wished, in virtue of a little model that he had made, that the Duke should give
it to him. On the other hand, Ammanati, being a sculptor of marbles and more experienced in
such works than Benvenuto, considered for many reasons that this work belonged to him. Now
it happened that Giorgio Vasari had to go to Rome with the Cardinal, the son of the Duke, when
he went to receive his hat, and Ammanati gave to Vasari a little model of wax showing the shape
in which he desired to carve that figure from the marble, and a piece of wood reproducing the
exact proportions--the length, breadth, thickness, and inclination from the straight--of the
marble, to the end that Giorgio might show them in Rome to Michelagnolo Buonarroti and persuade
him to declare his opinion in the matter, and so move the Duke to give him the marble. All
this Giorgio did most willingly, and it was the reason that the Duke gave orders that an arch
should be partitioned off in the Loggia of the Piazza, and that Ammanati should make a great
model as large as the giant was to be. Having heard this. Benvenuto rode in a great fury to
Pisa, where the Duke was, and said to him that he could not suffer that his genius should be
trampled underfoot by one who was inferior to himself, and that he desired to make a great
model in competition with Ammanati, in the same place; and the Duke, wishing to pacify him,
granted him leave to have another arch of the Loggia partitioned off, and caused to be given
to him materials for making, as he desired, a large model in competition with Ammanati.

While these masters were engaged in making their models, after having made fast their enclosures
in such a manner that neither the one nor the other could see what his rival was doing, although
these enclosures were attached to each other, there rose up the Flemish sculptor Maestro Giovan
Bologna, a young man not inferior in ability or in spirit to either of the others. This master,
being in the service of the Lord Don Francesco, Prince of Florence, asked his Excellency to
enable him to make a giant which might serve as a model, of the same size as the marble; and
the Prince granted him this favour. Maestro Giovan Bologna had as yet no thought of having
the giant to execute in marble, but he wished at least to display his ability and to make himself
known for what he was worth; and, having received permission from the Prince, he, also, began
a model in the Convent of S. Croce. Nor was Vincenzio Danti, the sculptor of Perugia, a younger
man than any of the others, willing to fail to compete with these three masters, not in the
hope of obtaining the marble, but in order to demonstrate his spirit and genius. And so, having
set to work on his own account in the house of Messer Alessandro, the son of M. Ottaviano de'
Medici, he executed a model good in many parts and as large as the others.

The models finished, the Duke went to see those of Ammanati and of Benvenuto; and, being more
pleased with that of Ammanati than with that of Benvenuto, he resolved that Ammanati should
have the marble and make the giant, because he was younger than Benvenuto and more practised
in marble. The disposition of the Duke was strengthened by Giorgio Vasari, who did many good
offices with his Excellency for Ammanati, having perceived that, in addition to his knowledge,
he was ready to endure any labour, and hoping that from his hands there would issue an excellent
work finished in a short time. The Duke would not at that time see the model of Maestro Giovan
Bologna, because, not having seen any work by him in marble, it did not seem to him that he
could entrust to that master, as his first work, so great an undertaking, although he heard
from many craftsmen and other men of judgment that Giovan Bologna's model was in many parts
better than the others. But if Baccio had been alive, there would not have been all that contention
among those masters, because without a doubt it would have fallen to him to make the model
of clay and the giant of marble. This work, then, was snatched from Baccio by death, but the
same circumstance brought him no little glory, in that it revealed by means of those four models--the
reason of the making of which was that Baccio was not alive--how much better were the design,
judgment and ability of him who placed on the Piazza the Hercules and Cacus, as it were living
in the marble; the excellence of which work has been made evident and brought to light even
more by the works that have been executed since Baccio's death by those others, who, although
they have acquitted themselves in a manner worthy of praise, have yet not been able to attain
to the beauty and excellence that he placed in his work.

Afterwards Duke Cosimo, for the marriage of Queen Joanna of Austria, his daughter-in-law, seven
years after the death of Baccio, caused the audience-chamber in the Great Hall, begun by Baccio,
of which we have spoken above, to be finished; and he chose that the head of this work of completion
should be Giorgio Vasari, who has sought with all diligence to put right the many defects that
would have been in it if it had been continued and finished after the original design followed
in the beginning by Baccio. Thus that imperfect work has now been carried with the help of
God to completion, and is enriched on its side faces by the addition of niches and pilasters,
and statues set in their places. Moreover, since it was laid out awry and out of square, we
have taken pains to make it even in so far as has been possible, and have raised it considerably
with a corridor of Tuscan columns at the top; and as for the statue of Leo begun by Baccio,
his pupil Vincenzio de' Rossi has finished it. Besides this, that work has been adorned with
friezes full of stucco-work, with many figures large and small, and with devices and other
ornaments of various kinds, and under the niches and in the partitions of the vaulting have
been made many and various designs in stucco and many beautiful inventions in carving; all
which things have enriched the work in such a manner, that it has changed its form and has
gained not a little in beauty and grace. For whereas, according to the first design, the ceiling
of the Hall being twenty-one braccia above the floor, the audience-chamber did not rise higher
than eighteen braccia, so that between it and the old ceiling there was a space of only three
braccia; now, after our design, the ceiling of the Hall has been raised so much that it has
risen twelve braccia above the old ceiling and fifteen above the audience-chamber of Baccio
and Giuliano, so that the ceiling is now thirty-three braccia above the floor of the Hall.
And it certainly showed great spirit in his Excellency, that he should resolve to cause to
be finished in the space of five months for the above-named nuptials the whole of a work of
which more than a third still remained to do, although it had taken more than fifteen years
to arrive at the condition in which it was at that time; so eager was he to carry it to completion.
But it was not only Baccio's work that his Excellency caused to be completely finished, but
also all the rest of what Giorgio Vasari had designed; beginning again from the base that runs
over the whole of that work, with a border of balusters in the open spaces, which forms a corridor
that passes above the work in the Hall, and commands a view on the outer side of the Piazza
and on the inner side of the whole Hall. Thus the Princes and other lords will be able to see,
without being seen, all the festivals that may be held there, with much pleasure and convenience
for themselves, and then to retire to their apartments, passing by the private and public staircases
through all the rooms in the Palace. Nevertheless, to many it has caused dissatisfaction that
in a work of such beauty and grandeur that structure was not made square, and many would have
liked to have it pulled down and then rebuilt true to square. But it has been judged to be
better to continue the work in that way, in order not to appear presumptuous and malign towards
Baccio, and also because otherwise we would have seemed not to have the power to correct the
errors and defects found by us but committed by others.

But, returning to Baccio, we must say that his abilities were always recognized during his
lifetime, yet will be recognized and regretted much more now that he is dead. And even more
would he have been acknowledged for what he was, when alive, and beloved, if he had been so
favoured by nature as to be more amiable and more courteous, because his being the contrary,
and very rough with his tongue, robbed him of the goodwill of other persons, obscured his talents,
and brought it about that his works were regarded with ill will and a prejudiced eye, and therefore
could never please anyone. And although he served one nobleman after another, and was enabled
by his talent to serve them well, nevertheless he rendered his services with such bad grace,
that there was no one who felt grateful to him for them. Moreover, his always decrying and
maligning the works of others brought it about that no one could endure him, and, whenever
another was able to pay him back in his own coin, it was returned to him with interest; and
before the magistrates he spoke all manner of evil without scruple about the other citizens,
and received from them as good as he gave. He brought suits and went to law about everything
with the greatest readiness, living in one long succession of law-suits, and appearing to triumph
in them. But since his drawing, to which it is evident that he gave his attention more than
to any other thing, was of such a kind and of such excellence that it atones for his every
natural defect and makes him known as a rare master of our art, we therefore not only count
him among the greatest craftsmen, but also have always paid respect to his works, and have
sought not to destroy but to finish them and do them honour, for the reason that it appears
to us that Baccio was in truth one of those who deserve honourable praise and everlasting fame.

We have deferred to the end the mention of his family name, because it was not always the same,
but varied, Baccio having himself called now De' Brandini, and now De' Bandinelli. In his early
prints the name De' Brandini may be seen engraved after that of Baccio; but afterwards he preferred
the name De' Bandinelli, which he retained to the end and still retains, and he used to say
that his ancestors were of the Bandinelli of Siena, who once removed to Gaiuole, and from Gaiuole
to Florence.

GIULIANO BUGIARDINI

LIFE OF GIULIANO BUGIARDINI

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

Before the siege of Florence the population had multiplied in such great numbers that the widespread
suburbs which lay without every gate, together with the churches, monasteries, and hospitals,
formed as it were another city, inhabited by many honourable persons and by good craftsmen
of every kind, although for the most part they were less wealthy than those of the city, and
lived there with less expense in the way of customs-dues and the like. In one of these suburbs,
then, without the Porta a Faenza, was born Giuliano Bugiardini, who lived there, even as his
ancestors had done, until the year 1529, when all the suburbs were pulled down. But before
that, when still a mere lad, he began his studies in the garden of the Medici on the Piazza
di S. Marco, in which, attending to the study of art under the sculptor Bertoldo, he formed
such strait friendship and intimacy with Michelagnolo Buonarroti, that he was much beloved
by Buonarroti ever afterwards; which Michelagnolo did not so much because of any depth that
he saw in Giuliano's manner of drawing, as on account of the extraordinary diligence and love
that he showed towards art. There was in Giuliano, besides this, a certain natural goodness
and a sort of simplicity in his mode of living, free from all envy and malice, which vastly
pleased Buonarroti; nor was there any notable defect in him save this, that he loved too well
the works of his own hand. For, although all men are wont to err in this respect, Giuliano
in truth passed all due bounds, whatever may have been the reason--either the great pains and
diligence that he put into executing them, or some other cause. Wherefore Michelagnolo used
to call him blessed, since he appeared to be content with what he knew, and himself unhappy,
in that no work of his ever fully satisfied him.

After Giuliano had studied design for some time in the above-named garden, he worked, together
with Buonarroti and Granacci, under Domenico Ghirlandajo, at the time when he was painting
the chapel in S. Maria Novella. Then, having made his growth and become a passing good master,
he betook himself to work in company with Mariotto Albertinelli in Gualfonda; in which place
he finished a panel-picture that is now at the door of entrance of S. Maria Maggiore in Florence,
containing S. Alberto, a Carmelite friar, who has under his feet the Devil in the form of a
woman, a work that was much extolled.

It was the custom in Florence before the siege of 1530, at the burial of dead persons of good
family and noble blood, to carry in front of the bier a string of pennons fixed round a panel
that a porter bore on his head; which pennons were afterwards left in the church in memory
of the deceased and of his family. Now, when the elder Cosimo Rucellai died, Bernardo and Palla,
his sons, in order to have something new, thought of having not pennons, but in place of them
a quadrangular banner four braccia wide and five braccia high, with some pennons at the foot
containing the arms of the Rucellai. These men therefore giving this work to Giuliano to execute,
he painted on the body of the said banner four great figures, executed very well--namely, S.
Cosimo, S. Damiano, S. Peter, and S. Paul, which were truly most beautiful paintings, and done
with more diligence than had ever been shown in any other work on cloth.

These and other works of Giuliano's having been seen by Mariotto Albertinelli, he recognized
how careful Giuliano was in following the designs that were put before him, without departing
from them by a hair's breadth, and, since he was preparing in those days to abandon art, he
gave him to finish a panel-picture that Fra Bartolommeo di San Marco, his friend and companion,
had formerly left only designed and shaded with water-colours on the gesso of the panel, as
was his custom. Giuliano, then, setting his hand to this work, executed it with supreme diligence
and labour, and it was placed at that time in the Church of S. Gallo, without the gate of that
name. The church and convent were afterwards pulled down on account of the siege, and the picture
was carried into the city and placed in the Priests' Hospital in the Via di S. Gallo, and then
from there into the Convent of S. Marco, and finally into S. Jacopo tra Fossi on the Canto
degli Alberti, where it stands at the present day on the high-altar. In this picture is the
Dead Christ, with the Magdalene, who is embracing His feet, and S. John the Evangelist, who
is holding His head and supporting it on one knee. There, likewise, are S. Peter, who is weeping,
and S. Paul, who, stretching out his arms, is contemplating his Dead Master; and, to tell the
truth, Giuliano executed this picture with so much lovingness and so much consideration and
judgment, that he will be always very highly extolled for it, even as he was at that time,
and that rightly. And after this he finished for Cristofano Rinieri a picture with the Rape
of Dina that had been likewise left incomplete by the same Fra Bartolommeo; and he painted
another picture like it, which was sent to France.

Not long afterwards, having been drawn to Bologna by certain friends, he executed some portraits
from life, and, for a chapel in the new choir of S. Francesco, an altar-piece in oils containing
Our Lady and two Saints, which was held at that time in Bologna, from there not being many
masters there, to be a good work and worthy of praise. Then, having returned to Florence, he
painted for I know not what person five pictures of the life of Our Lady, which are now in
the house of Maestro Andrea Pasquali, physician to his Excellency and a man of great distinction.

Messer Palla Rucellai having commissioned him to execute an altar-piece that was to be placed
on his altar in S. Maria Novella, Giuliano began to paint in it the Martyrdom of S. Catharine
the Virgin. Mountains in labour! He had it in hand for twelve years, but never carried it to
completion after all that time, because he had no invention and knew not how to paint the many
various things that had a part in that martyrdom; and, although he was always racking his brain
as to how those wheels should be made, and how he should paint the lightning and the fire that
consumed them, constantly changing one day what he had done the day before, in all that time
he was never able to finish it. It is true that in the meantime he executed many works, and
among others, for Messer Francesco Guicciardini--who had returned from Bologna and was then
living in his villa at Montici, writing his history--a portrait of him, which was a passing
good likeness and pleased him much. He took the portrait, likewise, of Signora Angela de' Rossi,
the sister of the Count of Sansecondo, for Signor Alessandro Vitelli, her husband, who was
then on garrison-duty in Florence. For Messer Ottaviano de' Medici he painted in a large picture,
copied from one by Fra Sebastiano del Piombo, two full-length portraits, Pope Clement seated
and Fra Niccolò della Magna standing; and in another picture, likewise, with incredible pains
and patience, he portrayed Pope Clement seated, and before him Bartolommeo Valori, who is kneeling
and speaking to him.

Next, the above-named Messer Ottaviano de' Medici having besought Giuliano privately that he
should take for him the portrait of Michelagnolo Buonarroti, he set his hand to it; and, after
he had kept Michelagnolo, who used to take pleasure in his conversation, sitting for two hours,
Giuliano said to him: "Michelagnolo, if you wish to see yourself, get up and look, for I have
now fixed the expression of the face." Michelagnolo, having risen and looked at the portrait,
said to Giuliano, laughing: "What the devil have you been doing? You have painted me with one
of my eyes up in the temple. Give a little thought to what you are doing." Hearing this, Giuliano,
after standing pensive for a while and looking many times from the portrait to the living model,
answered in serious earnest: "To me it does not seem so, but sit you down again, and I shall
see a little better from the life whether it be true." Buonarroti, who knew whence the defect
arose and how small was the judgment of Bugiardini, straightway resumed his seat, grinning.
And Giuliano looked many times now at Michelagnolo and now at the picture, and then finally,
rising to his feet, declared: "To me it seems that the thing is just as I have drawn it, and
that the life is in no way different." "Well, then," answered Buonarroti, "it is a natural
deformity. Go on, and spare neither brush nor art." And so Giuliano finished the picture and
gave it to Messer Ottaviano, together with the portrait of Pope Clement by the hand of Fra
Sebastiano, as Buonarroti desired, who had sent to Rome for it. At that time, likewise, he
took the portrait of Cencio Guasconi, who was then a very beautiful youth. And after this he
painted at the villa of Baccio Valori, at Olmo a Castello, a tabernacle in fresco, which, although
it had not much design, was well and very carefully executed.

Meanwhile Palla Rucellai was pressing him to finish his altar-piece, of which mention has been
made above, and Giuliano resolved to take Michelagnolo one day to see it. And so, after he
had brought him to the place where he kept it, and had described to him with what pains he
had executed the lightning-flash, which, coming down from Heaven, shivers the wheels and kills
those who are turning them, and also a sun, which, bursting from a cloud, delivers S. Catharine
from death, he frankly besought Michelagnolo, who could not keep from laughing as he heard
poor Bugiardini's lamentations, that he should tell him how to make eight or ten principal
figures of soldiers in the foreground of this altar-piece, drawn up in line after the manner
of a guard, and in the act of flight, some being prostrate, some wounded, and others dead;
for, said Giuliano, he did not know for himself how to foreshorten them in such a manner that
there might be room for them all in so narrow a space, in the fashion that he had imagined,
in line. Buonarroti, then, having compassion on the poor man and wishing to oblige him, went
up to the picture with a piece of charcoal and outlined with a few strokes, lightly sketched
in, a line of marvellous nude figures, which, foreshortened in different attitudes, were falling
in various ways, some backward and others forward, with some wounded or dead, and all executed
with that judgment and excellence that were peculiar to Michelagnolo. This done, he went away
with the thanks of Giuliano, who not long afterwards took Tribolo, his dearest friend, to see
what Buonarroti had done, telling him the whole story. But since, as has been related, Buonarroti
had drawn his figures only in outline, Bugiardini was not able to put them into execution,
because there were neither shadows in them nor any other help; whereupon Tribolo resolved to
assist him, and thus made some sketch-models in clay, which he executed excellently well, giving
them that boldness of manner that Michelagnolo had put into the drawing, and working them over
with the gradine, which is a toothed instrument of iron, to the end that they might be somewhat
rough and might have greater force; and, thus finished, he gave them to Giuliano. However,
since that manner did not please the smooth fancy of Bugiardini, no sooner had Tribolo departed
than he took a brush and, dipping it from time to time in water, so smoothed them that he took
away the gradine-marks and polished them all over, insomuch that, whereas the lights should
have served as contrasts to make the shadows stronger, he contrived to destroy all the excellence
that made the work perfect. Which having afterwards heard from Giuliano himself, Tribolo laughed
at the foolish simplicity of the man; and Giuliano finally delivered the work finished in such
a manner that there is nothing in it to show that Michelagnolo ever looked at it.

