THE MAYFLOWER

(FLOR DE MAYO)

A TALE OF THE VALENCIAN SEASHORE

BY

VICENTE BLASCO IBÁÑEZ

TRANSLATED FROM THE SPANISH

BY

ARTHUR LIVINGSTON

NEW YORK

E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY

681 FIFTH AVENUE

COPYRIGHT 1921

BY E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY

All Rights Reserved

First printing March, 1921

Printed in the United States of America

CONTENTS

I. THE WIDOW'S TAVERN

II. "SIÑÁ" TONA'S FAMILY

III. A FAMILY ENTERPRISE

IV. MARY AND JESUS MEET

V. TWO WOMEN QUARREL

VI. THE SMUGGLERS

VII. THE NAMING OF THE BOAT

VIII. THE "MAYFLOWER" PUTS TO SEA

IX. "PROOFS! PROOFS! ROSARIO!"

X. "AND STILL THEY SAY FISH COMBS HIGH!"

THE MAYFLOWER

CHAPTER I

THE WIDOW'S TAVERN

The morning of that day--it was a Tuesday of the Lenten season--could not have dawned more
promisingly. The sea, off the Cabañal, was in flat calm, as smooth as a polished mirror. Not
the slightest ripple broke the shimmering triangular wake that the sun sent shoreward over
the lifeless surface of the water.

The fishing fleet had headed, bright and early, for the grounds off the Cabo de San Antonio;
and all the seines were out to take full advantage of the perfect weather. Prices on the market
of Valencia were running high; and every skipper was trying to make a quick catch and get back
first to the beach of the Cabañal, where the fisherwomen were waiting impatiently.

Toward noon the weather changed. An easterly wind came up, the dread levante, that can blow
so wickedly in the gulf of Valencia. The sea at first was lightly wrinkled; but as the hurricane
advanced the placid looking-glass gave way to a livid menacing chop, and piles of cloud came
racing up from the horizon and blotted out the sun.

Great was the alarm along shore. In the eyes of those poor people, familiar with all the tragedies
of the sea, wind from that quarter always meant one of those storms that bring sorrow and mourning
to the homes of fishermen. In dismay, their skirts whipping in the blow, the women ran back
and forth along the water's edge, wailing and praying to all the saints they trusted. The men
at home, pale and frowning, bit nervously at the ends of their cigars, and, from the lee of
the boats drawn up on the sand, studied the lowering horizon with the tense penetrating gaze
of sailormen, or nervously watched the harbor entrance beyond the Breakwater on whose red rocks
the first storm waves were breaking. What was happening to so many husbands and fathers caught
with their nets down off shore? Each succeeding squall, as it sent the terrified watchers staggering
along the beach, called up the thought of strong masts snapping at the level of the deck and
triangular sails torn to shreds, perhaps at that very moment!

About three o'clock on the black horizon a line of sails appeared, driving before the gale
like puffs of foam that vanished suddenly in the troughs of the waves to dart back into view
again on the crests succeeding. The fleet was returning like a frightened herd in stampede,
each boat plunging in the combers with the bellow of the tempest upon its heels. Would they
make the lee of the Breakwater? The wind in devilish playfulness would here tear off a shred
of canvas, there a yard, and there a mast or a tiller, till a rudderless craft, caught abeam
by a mountain of greenish water, would seem surely to be swallowed up. Some of the boats got
in. The sailors, drenched to the skin, accepted the embraces of their wives and children impassively,
with vacant and expressionless eyes, like corpses suddenly resurrected from the tomb.

That night was long remembered in the Cabañal.

Frenzied women, with their hair down and lashing in the hurricane, their voices hoarse from
the prayers they shouted above the howling gale, spent the whole night on the Breakwater, in
danger of being swept off by the towering surf, soaked with the brine from the biting spray,
and peering out into the blackness as though bent on witnessing the lingering agony of the
last stragglers.

Many boats did not appear. Where could they be ... ay Diós, Diós! Happy the women who had their
sons and husbands safe in their arms! Other boys were out in that tumbling hell, driving through
the night in a floating coffin, tossing from white cap to white cap, dizzily plunging into
the yawning trough, while decks groaned beneath their feet, and gray hills of water curled
above to break down upon them in a destroying surge!

It rained all night long. Many women waited out till sunrise, drawing their soaked cloaks about
their shivering bodies, kneeling in the black mud and coal-dust on the Breakwater, shrieking
their prayers to be sure that God would hear, or, again, in desperate rage, stopping to tear
their hair and hurl the most frightful blasphemies of the Fishmarket up toward heaven.

And when dawn came, what a glorious dawn it was! As if nothing at all had happened, the sun
lifted a smiling hypocritical face above the line of a clean horizon, and spread a broad uneasy
glitter of golden beauty over waters that peacefully carried long streaks of foam from the
night's turmoil. The first thing that the rays of morning gilded was the battered hulk of a
Norwegian barkentine ashore off the Beach of Nazaret, its nose buried in the sand, its midships
awash, its bilges agape and in splinters, while strips of canvas floated from the rigging tangled
about the broken masts.

The ship had carried a cargo of Northern lumber. Pushed gently along by the lapping waves,
timbers and boards were slowly drifting ashore, where they were dragged out by swarms of black
ants and disappeared as though sunk in the sand. And they worked hard, those ants. The storm
was just what they had been waiting for. Beach-pirates were whipping up their horses gayly
along all the roads leading to the huerta of Ruzafa. Boards like that would make such fine
houses! And the booty was all theirs by rights! What did it matter if a girder were stained,
perhaps, with the blood of one of those poor foreigners lying dead back there upon the shore?

Groups of idlers were gathered, with a few policemen, around some corpses that were stretched
out on the beach some distance from the water. Strong, handsome fellows they had been, light-haired
all; and bits of white skin, soft and smooth, though muscular, could be seen through the rents
in their garments, while their blue eyes, glassy and staring in death, looked up at the sky
with a mysterious fixity.

The Norwegian had been the most sizeable wreck of the blow, and the newspapers in town gave
columns to it. The population of Valencia turned out as on a pilgrimage to look at the hulk,
half sunken in the shifting sands. No one gave a thought to the lost fishing boats, and people
seemed not to understand the wailing and lamentations of the poor women whose men had not come
home.

The disaster to the fleet was not, however, so great as they had thought. The morning wore
on and several boats came in that had been given up for lost. Some had made Denia or Gandia.
Others had taken refuge in Cullera Harbor. And each craft that appeared roused cheers of rejoicing
and thanksgiving throughout the village, which joyfully made vows to all the saints who look
after men of the sea.

In the end only one was not accounted for--the boat of tio Pascualo, the most thrifty saver
of all the savers in the Cabañal, a man, decidedly, with an eye for money, a fisherman in winter
and a smuggler in summer, a great skipper, and a frequent visitor to the coasts of Algiers
and Oran, which he spoke of always as "across the way," as though Africa were on the sidewalk
across the street.

Pascualo's wife, Tona, spent more than a week on the Breakwater, a suckling baby in her arms
and another child, a chubby little lad, clinging to her skirts. She was sure Pascualo would
come home; and every time a fresh detail of the storm was given her, she would tear her hair
and renew her screams for the Holy Virgin's help. The fishermen never talked right out to her,
but always stopped at the significant shrug of the shoulders. They had seen Pascualo last off
the Cabo, drifting before the gale, dismasted. He could not have gotten in. One man had even
seen a huge green wave break over him, taking the boat abeam, though he could not swear the
craft had foundered.

In alternate spells of desperation and strange exhilarated hope, the miserable woman waited
and waited with her two children. On the twelfth day, a revenue cutter came into the port of
the Cabañal, towing tio Pascualo's boat behind, bottom-up, blackened, slimy and sticky, floating
weirdly like a big coffin and surrounded by schools of fish, unknown to local waters, that
seemed bent on getting at a bait they scented through the seams of the wrecked hull.

The craft was righted and grounded on the sand. The masts were off even with the deck. The
hold was full of water. When the fishermen went down inside to bail her out with pails, their
bare feet, entangled in the mess of line and baskets and cordage, stepped finally on something
soft. After a first instinctive cry of horrified revulsion, the men reached down under water
with their hands and drew out--a corpse.

Tio Pascualo was hardly recognizable. His body was swollen, green, the belly inflated to the
point of bursting. The decaying flesh was gnawed away in places by hungry little fishes, some
of which, loath to let go their prey, were still clinging to it by their teeth, wriggling their
tails and giving an appearance of disgusting life to the horrible mass. The bold sailor's fate
was clear. He had been hurled through the hatchway by a lunge of the deck before the boat had
been lost. Inside there he had lain with his skull crushed. That boat--the dream of his life,
the achievement of thirty years of penny-saving--had proved to be his coffin!

Tio Pascualo's widow, in her hysterical weeping, shrank from the repugnant body. The women
of the Cabañal raised their voices in weird lamentation and trooped in company behind the wooden
box that was carried at once to the cemetery. For a week tio Pascualo was the subject of every
conversation. Then people forgot about him, save that the appearance of his mourning widow,
with one child in her arms and another at her side, chanced to remind them of his grewsome end.

Tona, indeed, had lost not her husband only. Dire poverty was upon her, not the poverty that
is hard but tolerable, but the poverty that is terrifying even to the poor, the want of the
homeless and the bread-less, the want that holds out a mendicant hand from the street corner
to beg a penny and give thanks for a crust of mildewed bread.

Help came readily while her misfortune was fresh in the minds of the villagers. A subscription
was taken up among the fisherfolk, and on the proceeds, with other gifts that came in, she
was able to get along for three or four months. Then people forgot. Tona was no longer the
widow of a man lost at sea. She was a pauper ever on hand with the wail for alms. Many doors
were at last shut in her face, and old friends of her girlhood, who had always welcomed her
with a smile, now looked the other way when she went by.

But Tona was not the woman to be crushed by general ostracism. Eah! Enough of this bawling!
We've got to get out of the dumps! She was a woman with two arms like any other, and two brats
that could eat and eat and eat!

She had nothing left in the world but the wreck of her husband's boat, in which he had died.
It lay rotting out there on the beach, high and dry, now soaked by the rains, now oozing tar
under the flaming sun, the mosquitos breeding in the muck inside.

Tona suddenly had an idea. That boat might be good for something. It had killed the father
of those tots of hers. Why should it not help to feed them? Tio Mariano, a tight-fisted bachelor,
first cousin to the late Pascualo, and supposed to be quite well off, had taken a liking to
the widow's children; and however much it pained him, he went down into his pocket and gave
her the money to make her start.

In one side of the boat a hole was sawed to make a door and a small counter. Against the wall
inside some barrels of wine, gin and brandy were ranged in line. The deck was taken off and
replaced with a roof of tarred boards, to give head-room, at least, in the dingy hovel. At
the bow and at the stern two portholes were cut, and two partitions were set up with the boards
remaining--one "stateroom" for the widow, the other for the boys. A shelter with a thatched
roof was raised in front of the door; under it a couple of rickety tables, and as many as half
a dozen bamboo tabourets. The whole outfit made quite a show. The hulk of death became a beach
café within easy reach of the casa del bòus, the barn where the oxen for beaching and launching
the boats were kept, and at the very place where the fish was brought ashore and where some
one was always around.

The women folks of the Cabañal began to rub their eyes. That Tona was the Devil himself! See
what an eye she had for business! Her gin and brandy went by the barrelful. The men who used
to go to the taverns in town now got their drinks right there of her. They were always playing
truque y flor on the shaky tables under the shelter while waiting for the boats to put to sea,
brightening up the games with glass after glass of caña, which Tona averred was genuine imported
Cuban rum.

Tio Pascualo's stranded craft went sailing, wind astern, on a new voyage toward prosperity.
Out there on the rocking sea with the old skipper's seines, the boat had never earned so much
as now under the widow's charge, though its seams were open and its timbers were rotting away.
Evidence of profit could have been found in the successive transformations the old hulk kept
undergoing. First curtains went up on the stateroom windows, and if you looked inside, you
saw new coverlets of down, and white sheets. A coffee percolator began to shine like polished
gold on the counter. The shelter outside the door grew longer and longer, with more tables
and better ones. A dozen hens or more began to cluck about over the white sand, bossed by a
wicked rooster with a tenor voice who was more than a match for any stray dog that came along
looking for trouble. From a pen nearby echoed the grunts of a hog too fat to breathe without
disturbing the neighborhood. And in front of the counter, outside the hull, were two stoves
with rice and fish sputtering fragrantly in oil in their respective frying-pans. A going concern,
no doubt of that! Not a question of getting rich, you understand, but a bite to eat for the
boys! And Tona would smile and rub her hands gloatingly. Not a cent did she owe in the world.
The ceiling of the boat was festooned with dry morcillas and shiny sobreasadas--her favorite
sausages; and there were strips of smoked tunny, and a ham or two sprinkled with red pepper.
The barrels were full of drink. Along the shelves stretched an array of bottles with liqueurs
of every color. And the pots and pans hanging on the walls could be set sizzling in an instant
with all kinds of good nourishing victuals. Just think of it! A widow starving a short time
since, and now already on Easy Street! Say all you want--but God looks after decent people!

With plenty to eat and nothing to worry about, Tona seemed to grow young again. Inside her
boat there she took on a glowing well-fed buxomness, and her skin, protected from the sun and
brine, lost that harsh baked bronze of the women who worked along shore. When serving at the
counter her ample breast sported inevitably one of an endless assortment of colored handkerchiefs,
tomate y huevo, complicated arabesques of tomato red and egg yellow worked into thick well
woven silk.

She could even afford purely decorative luxuries. Above the wine casks at the back of the "shop"
the whitewashed timbers screamed aloud with cheap high colored chromos that reduced Tona's
neck-wear to silence, quite. The fishermen drinking outside under the shelter would look up
over the counter and feast their eyes on "The Lion Hunt," "The Death of the Good Man and the
Sinner," "The Ladder of Life," not to mention a half dozen miracle-workers with Saint Anthony
in the place of honor; and a cartoon showing the lean merchant who trusts, and the fat one
who sells for cash, with the customary legend: "If you want credit, come back to-morrow!"

Tona could be quite properly satisfied at the relative comfort in which her young ones were
growing up. Business was getting better and better, and an old stocking which she kept hidden
between the foot board of her bunk and the big mattress there, was gradually filling with the
silver douros she had saved.

Sometimes she could contain her happiness no longer; and to view her good fortune in perspective,
as it were, she would walk down to the fringe of the surf, and look back with welling eyes
at the hen coop, the open-air kitchen, the sonorous pig-pen, and finally the boat itself, its
bow and stern projecting from a maze of fences, cane-work and thatch, and painted a clean dazzling
white like some bark of dream-land tossed by a hurricane into a barnyard.

Not that life did not still have its hardships for her. She got little sleep. To begin with,
she had to be up at sunrise every morning, and oftentimes, after midnight, when boats would
make shore late or be leaving before dawn, the fishermen would start banging on her door and
she would have to get up and serve them. These early morning sprees were the ones that made
most money, though they caused her most uneasiness on the whole. She knew whom she was dealing
with. Ashore for a few hours after a week at sea, those men wanted all the pleasures of land
crowded into minutes of pure joy. They lighted on wine like flies on honey. If the older men
soon fell asleep with their pipes dead between their teeth, not so the sturdier boys, aflame
from the privations and abstinence of life at sea. They would look at siñá Tona in ways that
would bring gestures of annoyance from her and make her wonder how she could fight off the
brutal caresses of those Tritons in striped shirts.

She had never been a beauty; but her trace of fleshiness, her big black eyes that seemed to
brighten a clean brownish countenance, and especially the light wrapper she would hurriedly
throw on to attend to her nocturnal patronage, lent her charm in the eyes of those healthy
youths who laid their courses toward the Valencian shore with joyous anticipation of a sight
of siñá Tona.

But Tona was a woman of brain and brawn, and she knew how to handle those fellows. She bestowed
no favors. When their words were over-bold she would answer with disdain. To nudges she replied
with cuffs, and once when a sailor seized her suddenly from behind, she laid him flat with
a well placed kick, tough as iron and sturdy as a main-mast though he was.

She would have no love affairs, even if other women did! A man would never touch the end of
her little finger, no siree! The idea, besides! A mother of two children, little angels, sleeping
there behind one thickness of boards--you could hear them breathe, even--and she alone in the
world to support them!

The future of the boys was beginning to cause the mother hours of thought They had been growing
up there, on the beach, like two baby gulls, nesting in the shade of the grounded boats when
the sun burned hotly, or hunting conchas and periwinkles on the shore uncovered at low tide,
their brown chubby legs sinking deep into the masses of seaweed. The older child, Pascualet,
was the living likeness of his father, stocky, full-bellied, moon-faced. He looked like a seminary
student specializing on the Refectory, and already the fishermen had dubbed him "the Rector,"
a nickname that was to stick to him for life. He was eight years older than Antonio, a lean,
nervous, domineering little fellow who had Tona's eyes.

Pascualet became a real mother to his younger brother. While siñá Tona was busy with the tavern,
during the earliest days which had been the hard ones, the good-natured boy had carried the
baby around with the tenderness of a nurse and had played with the young torments of the water
front with that snarling squirming brat in his arms, who would bite and scratch when anything
did not suit him. At night, in the cramped "stateroom" of the tavern-boat, "Tonet" would stretch
out full length in the most comfortable place, letting his fat brother curl up in a corner
where he might, provided he did not disturb the little devil, who in spite of his smallness
ruled his elder brother like a tyrant.

The two boys would fall asleep to the lullaby of the waves which on days of spring-tide reached
almost to the tavern; and in winter, when the cold wind would try to make its way through the
seams in the old boat's walls, they would snuggle close together under the same coverlet. Some
nights they would be wakened by the uproar from the drunken sailors in the tavern, and hear
the angry words of their mother, or the slaps she would rain on impudent cheeks. More than
once the frail partition of their bedroom had threatened to give way as some staggering body
fell against it. But then they would go to sleep again, with the carefree innocence of children,
with no suspicions, and without alarm.

Siñá Tona had an unjust weakness for her younger son. In the first days of her widowhood, when
she saw the two little heads sleeping side by side in the narrow cabin, resting perhaps on
the very timbers that had crushed their father's skull, she had felt an equal tenderness for
them both, as though the deadly bark were to destroy them as it had killed Pascualo. But when
prosperity came, and the memory of the tragedy grew dim with the years, siñá Tona showed unmistakable
fondness for Tonet, a child of feline shrewdness, who treated everybody with imperious petulance,
but for his mother always had the speculative fondness of a sly cat.

What a joy Tonet was for her, a beach vagabond at seven, spending the whole day away from home
with one gang or another, and coming back at night with his clothes soaked and torn, and his
pockets full of sand! The older boy, meanwhile, now that his brother had been weaned from him,
would be in the tavern, washing dishes, waiting on customers, feeding the hens, or watching,
with grave responsibility written on his features, the two frying-pans that were crackling
on the stoves.

The mother, sometimes, on suddenly waking from a doze behind the counter and finding Pascualet
in front of her, would start with violent surprise. Pascualo, for all the world! Just as she
had known him as a boy, before their marriage, when he was "cat" on a fishing vessel! The same
round jolly face, the same stout square-shouldered body, the same stubby sturdy legs, the same
expression of an honest simpleton with a gift for plodding work that stamped him in advance
as a steady reliable chap, an hombre de bien. And the same inside, as well! Good-natured, too
good-natured if anything, and bashful! But a bull-dog when it came to hanging on to money;
and a mad fondness for the sea, prolific mother of men of courage, strong enough and brave
enough to earn their living from her bosom!

By the time he was thirteen, the tavern had become quite uncongenial to "the Rector," as he
gave to understand with a word dropped here and there, or with one of those occasional half-finished
and incoherent sentences, which were all that ever came out of that hard head of his. He had
not been born to the tavern business! Something altogether too tame for him! That might do
for Tonet, who didn't like real work overwell. As for himself, he was a man of muscle, and
he loved the sea. No, he must be a fisherman like his father!

When siñá Tona heard such remarks the terrifying thought of the catastrophe of that Lenten
Tuesday would come back to her mind. But the boy held his ground. Things like that didn't happen
every day. And since he felt a hankering for it, the profession of his father and his grandfather
was good enough for him; and tio Borrasca, an old skipper who had been a great friend of tio
Pascualo, thought so too.

One year when the drag-net season came around, the pesca del bòu, as the Valencians say, where
two boats worked in team, Pascualet shipped with tio Borrasca as "cat," gato de barca, for
his keep, and all he might make, in addition, from the cabets, the small fry, shrimp, sea-horses
and so on, that came up in the nets from the bottom along with the big fish.

His apprenticeship started auspiciously. Up to that time Pascualet had gotten along on the
old clothes his father had left. But siñá Tona wanted him to begin his new trade with real
dignity; so she closed the tavern, one afternoon, and went off to a ship chandler's bazaar
at the Grao. The boy remembered the excitement of that visit to the stores for years and years.
What gorgeous things, those blue coats, those yellow oilskins, those big rubber boots--only
captains could afford them, surely! But he was proud, withal, of his own helper's outfit--two
shirts of mallorquin, as stiff and prickly and rough as so much sand-paper, a sash of black
wool, a set of glaring yellow overalls, a red cap to pull down over the back of his head in
bad weather, and another of black silk to go ashore in. For once in his life he had on clothes
that fitted him. He was through struggling with those old coats of his father that on blowy
days filled like mainsails and made him trot down the wind in spite of himself. Shoes had been
out of the question. Those nimble feet of his had never known the torment of a leather casing.

And a real calling it was that the boy felt for the sea. The boat of tio Borrasca was more
to his taste than the grounded hulk on shore there with its grunting hogs and cackling hens.
He worked hard; and to supplement his wages he got a few kicks from the old skipper, who could
be gentle enough on land, but once with a deck under him would have made Saint Anthony himself
toe the mark. He could run up the mast to set the lantern or clear a line as spryly as a cat.
When the time came to chorrar, to haul the nets, he would take his hand at the ropes. He scrubbed
the decks, stowed the baskets of fish in the hold, and kept the fires going in the galley,
so that the men of the crew never had a chance to complain. And what luxuries in reward for
all that enthusiasm! When the captain and the men were through eating, the leavings were for
Pascualet and the other "cat," who had been standing by motionless and respectful during the
meal. The two boys would sit down on the bow with black pots between their legs and loaves
of bread under their arms. They would eat almost everything with their spoons, but when scooping
became too slow, they would begin to mop the bottoms of the pots with crusts of bread till
the metal was polished and shining. Then they would carefully collect the few drops of wine
that the men had left in their tin cups. Finally, if there was no work to do, the "cats" would
lie down like princes in the forecastle, their shirt-tails hanging out, their bellies toward
the stars, their faces pleasantly tickled by the breeze, till they were rocked to sleep by
the swaying of the vessel. There was tobacco a-plenty. Tio Borrasca was always raising a rumpus
because he couldn't understand how his pockets ran empty so soon, now of the alguilla of Algiers,
now of the Havana fine cut--according to the stock of the latest smuggler to make the Cabañal.

That was real life in Pascualet's eyes. Every time he came in, his mother could see that he
had grown, was stronger, tanned a darker brown, but as good-natured as ever in spite of his
fights with other "cats," husky little hectors who would stop at nothing, and who always puffed
smoke in your face, when you talked to them, from pipes as big as they were.

These rapid visits home were all there was to remind siñá Tona that she had an elder son at
all. The mistress of the tavern had something else on her mind. She was now spending entire
days alone in her hulk there. "The Rector" was offshore, earning his share of cabets, returning
only Sundays to hand over, with a show of pride, the three or four pesetas that represented
his week's wage. The other boy, that lost soul Tonet, had turned out a regular waster--that
was the very word for him. And he never came home unless he was hungry. He had joined the ragamuffins
along shore, a swarm of wharf rats that knew no more about their fathers than the homeless
dogs who went with them on their raids. He could swim like a fish, and all through the summer
days he loafed around the liners in the harbor, without a stitch on his lean sunburned body,
diving for the silver coins the passengers threw overboard. At night he would come home, his
trousers in rags, his face scratched and bleeding. His mother had caught him several times
fondly caressing the brandy keg; and one evening she had had to put on her shawl and go to
harbor-police headquarters, where her tears and lamentations finally got him loose on the promise
that she would cure him of his ugly weakness for scraping the bottoms of the sugar boxes stored
on the piers.

That Tonet was a limb of the Devil! And, diós mio, where did he get it, where did he get it!
How could two decent honest parents, such as she and Pascualo had been, ever get to have a
boy like that? With a perfectly good dinner waiting for him at home, why did he insist on sneaking
around the steamers from Scotland, waiting for the watchman to turn his back so as to be off
with a dried codfish under his arm? No, that boy was to be the death of her! Twelve years old,
no inclination to work, and not the slightest fear or respect for her, in spite of all the
broomsticks she had broken over his back.

Siñá Tona usually confided her troubles to a certain Martinez, a young policeman who patrolled
that part of the shore, spending the noon hours under the café shelter, his rifle across his
knees, his eyes vaguely fixed on the horizon of the sea, and his ears filled with the running
plaint of the tavernkeeper. A handsome chap Martinez was, an Andalusian from Huelva, slender
and trim of person, natty as could be in the old service uniform which he sported with a truly
martial swagger, twirling the corner of his blond mustache with an air that people called "distinguished."
Siñá Tona admired the man. After all, breeding will come out! You can tell it a mile away.
How Martinez talked, for instance! You could see from his choice of words that he was a man
of schooling. For that matter he had studied years and years in the Seminary up his way; and
if now he was only a patrolman, it was because he hadn't wanted to be a priest--he had quarreled
with his family on the subject--preferring to see a bit of the world by enlisting in the army.
The mistress of the tavern listened open-mouthed to the tales he told about himself in a heavy
Andalusian dialect where every "s" was like "th" in "thing." In deference to his learning,
she answered in kind, floundering about in an absurd and unintelligible Castillian which made
people in the village laugh.

"See, siñor Martines, that jacknape of mine is driving me mad with all his carrying on. I say
to him, I say: 'Anything wrong in this house, jail-bird? Well, then, why go tearing around
with that gang of good-for-nothings, who will die at the end of a rope, every one of them!'
now osté siñor Martines, you know how to talk in good grammar. You just tell him what is what.
You tell him they'll put him in the lock-up at Valencia if he isn't a good boy."

And siñor Martines promised to take the little rogue in hand, and he did, in fact, give him
a lecture, which reduced Tonet, for a moment at least, to cowering in terror in the presence
of that uniform and that heavy gun, which the soldier would never let go of for an instant.
These slight favors gradually brought Martinez into the family, making his relations with siñá
Tona more and more intimate. He got his meals now at the tavern, and spent most of his time
there; and the mistress finally had the pleasure of darning his stockings and sewing the buttons
on his underwear. Poor siñor Martines! What would happen to a fine young man like him without
a woman around? He would get to be as shabby and disreputable as a stray cat. And, frankly,
no decent lady could allow that to happen!

Summer afternoons when the sun was beating full upon the deserted beach, turning the baked
sand into a fiery furnace, one scene would always be enacted in the shade of the thatched roof
of the tavern shelter. Martinez would be seated on a reed stool with one elbow on the counter,
reading Perez Escrich, his favorite author, in bulging grimy volumes with the corners worn
down from having passed from patrol to patrol along the coast. Siñá Tona was convinced at last.
That was where he got all those big words and that moral philosophy which stirred the bottom
of her soul; and she looked at the books with the superstitious awe of an illiterate. Across
the counter, mechanically sewing, without thinking of what she was doing, she would sit looking
at Martinez fixedly, studying his thin blond mustache for half an hour at a time, then the
elegant lines of his nose for just as long, and finally the exquisite skill with which he parted
his hair, making two absolutely even plasters of golden locks on either side.

Sometimes, on looking up at the bottom of a page, Martinez would find the two black eyes of
siñá Tona nailed upon him; and he would blush and go on reading. Then afterwards the tavern
keeper would be ashamed of herself. The idea! When Pascualo was alive, she had looked at the
fellow casually once or twice, because she thought his face was interesting. But now she sat
there looking and looking and looking, like a fool! What would people say if they ever caught
her at it! Of course! She liked him! And why not? So handsome, and such fine manners! And how
well he could talk! But after all, that was absurd. She was well on toward forty, thirty-six
or so, she couldn't just remember. And he, well, twenty-four at the outside! But then again,
and then again! What difference did a few years make? She was not so bad looking. She carried
her age well. To settle that question, just listen to the men off the boats who were always
pestering her! And if it was all so absurd, why were people gossiping about it? The other patrolmen,
friends of Martinez, and the fish-women on the beach, were always teasing them with indirect
allusions which, if anything, were too direct.

And the expected happened. To silence her own misgivings, siñá Tona argued that her boys needed
a father, and Martinez was just the man. The courageous Amazon, who would cudgel the roughest
sailor at the slightest flippancy, herself took the initiative, overcoming the bashfulness
of that timid overgrown boy; and he, submissive rather than seeking, allowed things to take
their course, like a superior being with thoughts absorbed in higher things, and responding
to affairs of earth like an automaton.

The matter did not remain long secret; nor was Tona displeased at the talk. She wanted it known
that the tavern had a man in charge. When she had something to attend to in the Cabañal, she
left the shop in care of Martinez, who sat, as he had always sat, under the shelter, looking
out to sea with the rifle across his knees. Even the two boys understood that something was
going on. "The Rector," on his turns ashore, would look at his mother with a perplexed expression
on his face, and he was timid and ashamed in the presence of that big yellow-headed youth in
uniform whom he always found about the tavern. Not so Tonet. That rascal smiled broadly all
the time, reflecting the gibes and sarcasms he had picked up along shore. And he ceased to
be at all impressed at the sermons of the patrolman, which he now rebutted by thumbing his
nose and going off down the beach cavorting and turning handsprings.

Meanwhile Tona was passing through a new honeymoon in the full maturity of life. In comparison,
her marriage with Pascualo seemed like monotony itself. Into her passion for the soldier she
put all the vehemence of a woman whose youth is sloping toward sunset, and she paraded her
joy in bold indifference to what people were saying. Let them talk! Let them talk till their
tongues wore out! Many women were worse than she was. Of course the girls were sore at her
carrying off a good-looking fellow right under their noses!

Martinez, for his part, with the usual dreamy expression on his face, let himself be kissed
and pampered as though he deserved every bit of it; besides his prestige had gone up not only
in his squad but with his superiors. Why not, with a boat full of the real stuff, not to mention
that stocking crammed with silver duros that sometimes stuck into his ribs as he lay down on
the bed in the stateroom! To make sleeping more comfortable he removed that annoying obstruction,
and siñá Tona said not a word. Was he not to be her husband? The money was all hers, and so
long as the tavern paid as well as it was paying, there was no need to worry.

In four or five months, however, Tona began to go around with a long face. See here, Martinez,
siñor Martines, just come down out of the clouds and listen to Tona for a moment. Tona is saying
something to you. She is saying that something must be done, in the circumstances. The present
situation cannot last. A satisfactory explanation must be ready for what is bound to occur.
A respectable mother of two children cannot be the respectable mother of three children, without
a man there to step forward and say: "This is mine!"

And Martinez said: "Bueno!", but there was a sign of annoyed surprise in the way he said it,
as though he had suddenly bumped against some hard reality in his plunge from the ideal heights
where he always dwelt as a man unappreciated by the world, and where he could dream at leisure
of becoming a general, a Dictator, and all the other things the heroes of Perez Escrich become,
in that imaginative writer's novels!

Yes, he would send for the certificates necessary for the marriage license. But it would take
time of course, because Huelva was a long way off. Tona waited, with her thoughts on Huelva,
a city hazy in the distance, which she figured must be off around Cuba, or the Philippines,
perhaps. And time went by, while the situation grew more and more alarming.

Martinez, siñor Martines, in two months ... Tona cannot pretend any longer! People are noticing.
What will the boys say when they find that they have a young brother? But Martinez got cross.
It wasn't his fault, if the documents didn't come. She could see how many letters he kept writing.

Finally the patrolman announced one morning that there was no other way out of it. He would
have to go and get those cursed papers himself, and he had secured leave of absence from his
captain. Fine! Siñá Tona thought that was a good idea. She gave him all the money she had,
sleeked his hair one last time, wept a little, and ... "Good-by! And don't be long!"

A patrolman going by one day was kind enough to tell her the real truth. All that talk about
going to Huelva was a lie. Martinez had been writing for papers all right, but to Madrid, asking
to be transferred to another district at the opposite end of Spain, since the climate at Valencia
was not good for him. And he had won his point. He had been assigned to the department of La
Coruña.

That was a bad moment for siñá Tona. The thief! The bandit! You just trust these smooth talkers!
So that was to be her pay for giving him her last cent--and combing his hair, the towhead,
out there under the shed in the afternoon, as kind and soft-like as a mother.

But for all of Tona's desperation, in a few weeks she was handing out drinks across the counter
while she nursed a white sickly girl baby, a tiny little thing with blue eyes and an over-sized
yellow head that looked like a ball of gold.

CHAPTER II

SIÑÁ TONA'S FAMILY

And the years rolled on with nothing further to disturb the monotonous course of life for the
family sheltered in the tavern-boat. The Rector had grown up to be a lusty sailor, stingy of
words, fearless in danger. From gato de barca he had graduated to the rank of able-bodied seaman
and was the man of the crew on whom tio Borrasca most relied. Every month Pascualet handed
four or five duros over to his mother to keep for him.

Tonet was not settling down to any trade. A stubborn fight was going on between him and his
mother. Tona would run her legs off finding him jobs which he would proceed to lose. For about
a week he was apprentice to a cobbler. Then he went for a couple of months as "cat" on tio
Borrasca's boat; and not even that stern disciplinarian was able to kick any obedience into
him. Then he tried his hand at coopering, the steadiest of all trades; but his boss bounced
him to the sidewalk in a very few days. Then he joined a stevedore's colla in town; but he
never worked unloading the steamers more than two days a week, and that much quite against
his will.

But his many shortcomings as vagrant and rowdy found easy excuse in siñá Tona's eyes, when
she would see him of a holiday--and what days were not holidays for that rascal?--with that
fluffy flat silk cap of his topping off a brown face with just the suggestion of a mustache
showing, a blue denim coat fitting close to his figure, and a black silk sash wound around
his waist over a flannel shirt with black and green checks. Any woman would be proud to own
a boy like that! He was going to be another terror on the lines of that Martinez--curse the
wretch--but with more "seasoning," more get-up-and-go, to him. To be sure of that, it was enough
to watch the girls in the Cabañal when he was around. They would be willing to scratch each
other's eyes out to get him for a lover! Tona was kept posted on all his adventures, and was
immensely flattered at the boy's popularity and "social position." A bit too fond of brandy,
yes--and what a pity!--but a regular fellow, quite different from that big good-natured booby
of a Pascualet, who wouldn't say a word if a cart ran over him.

One Sunday evening in a tavern appositely labeled the "Inn of Good Morals," he began to throw
bottles at some stevedores who had accepted a cut in wages; and when the police came in to
restore order, they caught him, red-handed, chasing his enemies over the tops of the tables
with his knife drawn. More than one week-end he spent in the jail at headquarters whence his
mother's tears and the "pull" tio Mariano had as a politician and distributor of election money,
would finally extricate him. And arrest proved so salutary to him that on the very night of
one of his discharges he was taken again for drawing a knife on two English sailors, who, after
a number of treats, tried to explain some of the details of the Marquis of Queensbury rules
to him. Not much good at drudgery, but able to drink anybody under the table, and do it night
after night, passing from dive to dive, and not showing his face at home for weeks at a time!

Tonet had an intimate way of conducting his more serious love-affairs that made many people
suspect him of anticipating legal ceremonies. But his mother took no stock in such reports.
She did not insist on a princess for her Tonet, but how could any one think he would ever marry
that girl of tio Paella the truckman! Dolores, shameless hussy, was pretty enough, to be sure,
but bound to make the woman who got her for a daughter-in-law lead a song--and a dance! What
could you expect of a girl brought up without a mother by that tio Paella, a tippler who could
never walk straight as he went out to hitch up at daylight, and who was getting thinner and
thinner from alcohol, except for his nose that was growing so big it almost covered his puffy
cheeks.

A tough customer was tio Paella, and no one said a good word for him. His trade was all in
town, in the Fishmarket section of Valencia. When an English boat came in, he openly offered
his services to take sailors to places only he knew about; and on summer nights he would load
his wagon up with girls in white wrappers, with painted cheeks and flowers in their hair, and
drive parties of men off with them to various resorts along the shore, where they would have
one grand carousal till sunrise, while he sat off in a corner, his whip in one hand and a wine
mug in the other, paternally chaperoning what, sacrilegiously, he called his "flock."

And he talked right out regardless of his girl's presence. The language he used to her was
the language he used to the women he knew in town. When he was drunk he would tell everything
to the last detail; and little Dolores, crouching at a safe distance from her father's boots,
would listen to the whole story with her eyes wide open in amazement and, written on her face,
an eager unhealthy curiosity in all the filthy things tio Paella would be talking about in
his brutal soliloquy, gloating over the infamous revelries he had been witnessing.

That was good training for a girl, wasn't it! What she didn't know was probably not worth knowing.
And Tona was to be mother-in-law of a piece like that! Pretty as she was, all that had kept
her off the streets so far was the good advice some of the women of the neighborhood gave her.

Even so, her conduct with Tonet was getting to be the talk of the village. The boy went in
and out in her house as though he were quite at home; and he took his meals there, knowing
very well that the truckman would not be back till late at night. Dolores did his washing and
even rifled tio Paella's pockets to get money for her lover; and that made the teamster vomit
mouthfuls of vile oaths on the subject of false friendship, because he thought his tavern companions
had robbed him while he was drunk. One thing at a time, Tonet was moving all his belongings
from the tavern-boat to the truckman's cabin, as though the girl were foreclosing on his property.

And siñá Tona was living more and more by herself. The Rector was always off peseta-hunting,
as he said, either fishing, or sometimes shipping on one of the laúds that ran to Torrevieja
for salt. Tonet was hanging around the liquor places or staying up at tio Paella's. Poor Tona
was growing old behind the counter of her little shop, carrying the yellow-headed baby around,
loving her with a strange vehemence at times, and then again hating her at the thought of that
thief of a Martinez--whom the Devil take in due time!

So it was only off and on that God looked after decent people! Things were not going so well
as they used to go, in the early days of Tona's widowhood. Other old hulks had been turned
by copy-cats into taverns along the beach; and the fishermen could choose where they would
go. She, besides, was not so pretty as she had been once; and the younger fellows were not
so eager to buy drinks of her on the chance of getting something more. The tavern was living
on its old habitués, and bringing in just enough to keep the wolf from the door. More than
once Tona would walk down to the water as she used to and sadly look back at the two stoves
now cold, the fences now rickety and tumbling down, the pig-pen where a lean hog scarcely ever
grunted at all, and the half dozen hens hungrily pecking about the sands. How time dragged
for her in that stultifying life of solitude, which was enlivened only when Tonet got into
trouble or when Tona's eyes would fall on a picture of siñor Martines in uniform, which she
had hung up in the stateroom as a constant and refinedly cruel reminder of her one mistake.

Little Roseta, a favor left behind in the tavern-boat by the considerate patrolman, gave her
mother hardly a moment's peace. She was growing up like an untameable wildcat. Every evening
Tona had to go and hunt for her before she could shut her up in the boat after a hard spanking;
and from morning till night she would never be seen unless she happened to be hungry. Thy will
be done! One more cross for poor Tona to drag through this vale of tears! Taciturn and fond
of her own company, Roseta would lie out full length on the wet sand, playing with shells or
making piles of seaweed. She would sit for hours with her blue eyes staring into space with
fixed hypnotic vacancy, the breeze twirling her yellow locks, as twisted and withy as so many
snakes, or blowing up the faded old frock that reached the knees of two slim legs, shiny white,
which had known no stockings other than the coat of brown the sun burned over their extremities
in summer. Or for hours also she would lie face downward on the sand, which would take on the
imprint of her body under her, bathing her face in the thin ripple of water that the surf threw
up and sucked back again over the shining beach spangled with all the capricious tracings of moiré.

She was an incorrigible truant, a chip of the old block, as Tona put it, thinking of that loafer
who had been responsible for her, and who also sat staring day in day out at the horizon like
a good-for-nothing idiot, half awake. If Tona had had to depend on that girl for a living,
a fine mess she would have been in! Lazy, irresponsible, was no name for it! Couldn't wipe
a plate or wash a glass in the café without breaking up housekeeping! Put a herring on to fry
when she was tending the fire and she'd burn it black! Much better to let her run the beach
or go to the dressmaker's shop in the Cabañal.

At times the child showed a mad eagerness to study, and at the risk of a whipping, would run
away from home and go to the village school. But when Tona found this out and was inclined
to encourage her, she would play truant all the time. It was only in summer that she was of
any use at all. Then a fondness for money could be reconciled with her passion for roving aimlessly
here and there; so during the bathing season, she would take a jar almost as big as herself,
fill it with water from the fònt de Gas, and go glass in hand among the bathers, or even among
the carriages driving on the pier, shaking her tangled yellow head of hair and crying in rather
a faint voice: Al ua fresqueta! Other times it would be a basket, instead, filled with cakes,
seasoned some with salt and some with sugar, which she hawked plaintively about: Salaes y dolses!
In this way Roseta would bring as many as two reals to her mother in the evening, and Tona's
face would brighten up, for with business going as it was, she was getting selfish.

That was the story of Roseta's infancy and girlhood--a frowning antipathy toward people generally;
a menacing submissiveness to her mother's whippings; hatred for Tonet who had never paid the
slightest attention to her; a smile at times for the Rector, who, on his brief visits home,
would playfully twitch one of her yellow curls; and scorn for the ragamuffins of the beach
whom she refused to play with and held off with the haughty reserve of a queen forty inches long.

Tona eventually lost all interest in the child, though Roseta was her last resource in that
miserable hovel which, in the long nights of winter, was as lonely as a tomb. Tonet and the
teamster's daughter were her one concern. That wench was bent on carrying off everything Tona
had in the world! First it had been Tonet; but now Dolores had stolen the Rector also. For
when Pascualet came ashore of late he would barely look in at the tavern-boat and then be off
to the truckman's house where, evidently, he was a far from troublesome witness to what the
lovers were doing. But it wasn't so much that, in itself, as the influence Dolores was coming
to have with the boys, and thus spoiling a plan that Tona had had for a long time, of marrying
Tonet to the daughter of an old friend of hers.

For mere looks, Rosario could not, of course, compare with the daughter of tio Paella; but
her goodness--the strong point of insignificant human beings--was something Tona could not
praise highly enough, though she never mentioned the most important thing of all, that Rosario
was an orphan. Her parents had kept a store in the Cabañal, and from them Tona had bought her
stock. Now that they were dead, the girl was left with a fortune almost, three or four thousand
duros, to put it low. And how the poor thing loved Tonet! Whenever she met him on the streets
of the Cabañal, she always had one of her placid wistful smiles for him; and she spent her
afternoons with siñá Tona on the beach, just because the old lady was the mother of that bantam
who was forever turning the village upside down.

But nothing good would ever come of that rogue! Not even Dolores, with all the control she
had over him, could keep him in hand when one of his fits of deviltry came on. He would disappear
for weeks at a time, when everything was as nice as you please, and then you would learn, not
from him but from what people said, that he had been in Valencia, sleeping daytimes in some
house in the Fishmarket district, getting drunk every night, beating the bad women of cheap
lodging houses, and setting the whole town in an uproar whenever he had come off a heavy winner
in some gambling-dive of the slums.

It was on one of these sprees that he took the foolish step which cost his mother days and
days of lamentation and weeping. Tonet, with some other boys of his kind, went and joined the
navy. Life in the Cabañal had grown too tame for them, and the wine there had lost its flavor.
And the time came when the wretched scamp, in a blue sailor suit, a white cap cocked over one
ear, and a bundle of clothes over his shoulders, dropped in to bid Dolores and his mother good-by,
on his way to Cartagena where he had been ordered to report for service.

Good riddance, after all! Siñá Tona was fond of her boy, but he wouldn't be getting into trouble
again for a while! What a pity, though, for that poor girl Rosario, so modest and unassuming
and never saying a word, who took her sewing down to the beach with Roseta, and was always
timidly asking whether siñá Tona had had any word from Tonet. As time went on, the three women
from the old hulk there on the shore followed all the voyages and stops of the schoolship Villa
de Madrid with Tonet on board as able seaman. And how excited they would get when the postman
would throw down on the wet counter a narrow envelope, sometimes sealed with red wax and then
again with bread dough, and a complicated address written all over it in huge fat letters:
"For siñora tona The Woman who keeps The little café near The barn on the Beach."

A strange exotic perfume seemed to come from the four pages of rough paper--a suggestion of
trees and flowers the poor women did not know, of tempestuous seas, of shores draped in rosy
mists under skies of fire, of Cuban negroes and Philippine Chinese, or of great cities of South
America. What a boy, eh? What a lot he would have to talk about when he came home! Perhaps
that crazy idea he had had of going away to see the world would be the making of him in the
end. And siñá Tona, with a return of the preference which made her idolize her younger son,
felt an occasional flare of jealous anger as she pictured her Tonet, her fine brave little
boy, off on that navy vessel under the strict discipline of cross officers, while the other
one, the Rector, whom she had always thought a sleepy-head, was getting on in the world like
anything, and had come to be quite a person in fishing circles.

Whenever Pascualet went out now, it was on shares with the skipper of his boat; and he had
his secrets with tio Mariano, the important individual whom Tona fell back on in all her plights.
The boy was making money, I'll bet you, and siñá Tona was hurt to the quick that he never brought
a cent home any longer, and, indeed, now called at the tavern-boat, and sat a moment or two
under the shelter outside, more for appearance's sake than anything else. He was saving his
earnings, then! Well, who was keeping the money for him! Dolores! Dolores, of course, that
witch who had given love-philters to both her boys--otherwise, why were they always following
round after her as if they didn't dare say their soul was their own?

The Rector stuck to the teamster's house as if the poor fool thought he had some business there!
Didn't he know, idiot, that Dolores was for the other one? Hadn't he seen Tonet's letters and
the answers she got a neighbor who had been to school to write for her? But three times donkey
that he was, without paying the least attention to his mother's gibes, the Rector kept on going
there and taking the favored place his brother had enjoyed, and apparently without appreciating
the progress he was making. Dolores was now attending to him as she had to Tonet. She kept
his clothes mended, and,--something she had never been troubled with in the case of that roistering
loafer--she also was taking care of his savings.

One day tio Paella was brought home dead. He had got drunk and fallen from the seat of his
cart, both wheels passing over him. But he died true to his reputation and just as he had lived,
his whip clutched in one hand, sweating brandy from every pore, and the wagon full of the girls
he spoke of, sacrilegiously, as his "flock." Dolores had no one else to lean on in her trouble
than her tia Picores, the fish-woman, a chaperone not in every sense desirable, for she tempered
kindness with fisticuffs.

Then it was, some two years after Tonet had gone away, that the big surprise occurred. Dolores,
gran diós! and the Rector, were getting married. The Cabañal sat up nights discussing the overwhelming
piece of news. And she did the proposing, I'll have you know! And people added other spicy
bits of information that kept the laughing going. Tona talked more picturesquely than she had
ever talked before. So Her Royal Highness of the Horseshoe, that wench of a teamster's daughter,
was getting into the family, as she had always meant to do! Well, that Queen Virtuous knew
which side her bread was buttered on. Just what she needed--a husband with a thick skull and
nothing inside it, who would be able to work like a cart-horse from morning till night. The
pickpocket! Just like her to steal the only man in the family that could earn a cent!

But then suddenly Tona thought of something, and she broke off her tirade. Better let them
get married! That simplified the situation and favored her own plans. Tonet would now take
Rosario! Though it was hard to swallow it all, she consented even to attend the wedding and
say filla mehua to that scheming hussy who changed her men as she changed her clothes!

But what would Tonet say, what would Tonet do, when he heard the glad tidings? That was something
to worry about, because everybody remembered the kind of temper he had when he got angry. So
another surprise was due when the boy wrote back that everything was all right and that he
was glad of it. Been away so long, you see, new faces, new places! That, doubtless, was why
he found it so natural that Dolores should take a husband, since she had no one else to fall
back on. Besides,--and this is what Tonet himself said--it was better for her to marry his
brother than run any risk on some one else; and the Rector was a good sort, too.

And the sailor showed himself just as reasonable when he turned up in the Cabañal one evening,
with his discharge papers in his pocket and his bundle of clothes slung over his shoulder,
surprising everybody with the fine appearance he made and with the reckless way he threw money
around from the back pay he had just collected. Dolores he greeted affectionately as a sister
he was fond of. Oh, that? What the devil! Don't even think of that! It was all right, all right!
He had not been having a bad time himself on his trip around the world! And, in the midst of
the popularity he was enjoying as a returned hero, Tonet seemed to forget all about Dolores
and the Rector.

In front of the door of tio Paella's old place, now occupied by Pascualet, the villagers would
sit in the open air all night sometimes, on low stools or on the ground, listening open-mouthed
while the sailor told about the countries he had visited, embroidering his adventures with
harmless embellishments to rouse greater thrills in his simple-minded audience. As compared
with the uncouth fishermen they knew, dull and stupid from the routine of daily toil, or with
the stevedores he used to work with in Valencia, Tonet looked like an aristocrat to the girls
of the Cabañal, with his palish-dark face, his carefully curled mustache, his hands clean and
well manicured, his hair sleek and neatly brushed with a parting in the middle and--pasted
down on his forehead--two cowlicks just visible under a silk cap!

Siñá Tona, for her part, was quite satisfied with her boy. As much of a scamp as ever, but
he had himself more in hand, and it was evident that the navy discipline had done him good.
The same old Tonet, but he had been taught to dress better and cleaner, and he could drink
without drinking too much. A dandy still, but not sure to be getting into jail every other
minute, and less bent on venting the caprices of a law-breaking daredevil than on satisfying
the selfish cravings of a rake!

Proof of such progress was that he now took kindly to his mother's suggestions. Marry Rosario?
No objection! Good girl, and a penny or two, that would be just the thing for a man of ideas,
and the brains to carry them out. Money, after all, was what he needed. You couldn't expect
a fellow fresh from the Royal Navy to go back to lugging bags and boxes on a wharf! Anything
but that! And to siñá Tona's unbounded delight, Tonet took Rosario to wife.

Everything went finely. That was a handsome pair now, wasn't it?--a tiny little thing, Rosario,
timid, obedient, believing in her husband as she believed in God; and Tonet, proud of his good
luck, carrying himself as stiffly as if, under his flannel shirt, he had a coat-of-mail, made
of his wife's silver dollars, dispensing favors to right and left, living like a village squire,
smoking his pipe all afternoon and evening in the tavern, and sporting long rubber boots on
days when it rained!

Dolores showed no trace of emotion in the presence of her former sweetheart--only in her domineering
eyes one might have seen an intenser sparkle, a glint of golden fire,--telltale evidence of
yearnings unconfessed. And a happy year went rapidly by. But the money which penny by penny
had been painfully assembled in the wretched store where Rosario had been born, streamed away
between the fingers of the spendthrift husband; and the cow was running dry, as the mistress
of the tavern-boat observed to her son one day, in a lecture on prodigality.

Along with poverty, discord, tears, and finally the flying fist entered Tenet's house. Rosario
joined the neighbors on the beach and began to dirty her hands on the slimy fish baskets. Falling
from her high estate as heiress and lady she became a fish-woman, one of the poorest and hardest-working
followers of that soul-killing trade. She was up now every morning shortly after midnight,
waiting on the shore with her feet in the puddles, drawing a frayed and threadbare shawl about
her shivering body, when the storms blew. All the way to Valencia she would go on foot carrying
that back-breaking load of fish, and it would be dark again by the time she got home, faint
with hunger and fatigue, but happy withal because her lord and master could still live the
life of a gentleman without any humiliations to translate into swear-words and beatings. That
Tonet might pass his night in the café, swapping stories with engineers from the steamers or
skippers from the fishing boats, she would, many a time in the Fishmarket in town, stifle the
hunger that gripped her at sight of the cups of steaming chocolate and the breaded chops her
companions were busy with at the tables in their stalls.

The important thing was to keep her idol appeased, an idol so quick to wrath, so prone to curse
the rotten marriage he had made. He had to have his peseta for the night's session at coffee
and dominoes. He had to have his square meal and his flashy flannel shirts. He had a reputation
to keep up. And so long as he had what he wanted, the poor little wife, thinner and more peaked
every day, found all her struggles well worth while, cost her what it might. She was an old
woman before thirty, but she could boast of exclusive proprietorship of the handsomest buck
in the Cabañal.

Privation brought them closer to the Rector's household, which, while they were going down
and down, was going up and up, on the wings of prosperity. Brothers have to stand together
in hard luck. Of course! And Rosario, though much against her inner preferences, went to see
Dolores often, and accepted a renewal of intimate friendship between her husband and his sister-in-law.
She was worried, but there must not be an open quarrel. The Rector would get mad; and he it
was who kept them going on weeks when no fish came in, or when the village dandy found nothing
to get a commission on as go-between in one of the little business deals that feature life
in a seaport town. But the moment came when the two women, deadly enemies underneath, could
pretend cordiality no longer. Four years after her marriage, Dolores was at last able to announce
the coming of an heir to the Rector's fortune; and the Rector, with a silly smile on his moon-face,
advertised the auspicious event on every hand--and all his acquaintances were delighted, though
they smiled with a sly wink he did not notice. No one really knew, to be sure. But funny, wasn't
it! That rather deliberate decision of Dolores corresponded strangely with the time Tonet had
become a less frequent visitor to the café and had begun to spend more of his time in his brother's
house.

The two women now spoke their minds with the savage frankness of their station. The breach
between them became permanent. Tonet kept going to the Rector's place, but alone; and that
made Rosario very angry, and the quarrels in her home now ended always in ferocious cudgelings.
And the time came when Rosario began to say openly that the baby looked like Tonet. Her husband
meanwhile stuck closer than ever to the Rector, who had revived his old fondness for his younger
brother, letting himself be sponged on in spite of his tight-fistedness. The pretty daughter
of tio Paella poked biting fun at that wreck she had for a sister-in-law, that old hen, quite
passée, poor as a rat, a mere day laborer of the meanest kind, who couldn't hang on to the
man she had married! Tonet, in fact, as in earlier days, was again following Dolores around
like an obedient dog, sitting up when he was told to sit up, and charging when he was told
to charge.

A withering blast of relentless hatred, of flaying jest and stinging insolence, swept from
the old home of tio Paella, now repainted and with a new ell, toward the wretched tumble-down
shack where Rosario had finally taken refuge in her penury. And well-meaning busybodies, with
the holiest good-will toward both, kept telling what Rosario had said about Dolores and what
Dolores had said about Rosario, taking care that every apostrophe should reach its destination
and receive its fit reply.

When Rosario, flaming with anger and weeping from sheer despair, would simply have to tell
some one of her troubles, she would go off to the tavern-boat, which, like its mistress, was
also aging rapidly with the years. There she would be listened to in silence, with an expression
of sorrow, or a shake of the head from siñá Tona and Roseta, who were living on in sullen antipathy
toward one another in spite of their relationship, agreeing only on one thing, that men were
beneath contempt. The old hulk, that served them as lair, was a sort of vantage point from
which they were able to follow the war between the two families.

"Men! Men! What fleas!" siñá Tona would say, with a glance at the picture of the patrolman,
who seemed to be the presiding genius of the place. "Men! Crooks every one of them, not worth
the rope to hang them with!" And Roseta, with her big bright sea-green eyes--the eyes of a
virgin who knows all about the world and is quite sure of herself--would murmur for once approvingly:
"And those who are not scamps like Tonet are like the Rector--puddingheads!"

CHAPTER III

A FAMILY ENTERPRISE

Though spring had not yet come, the sun was so hot, that day, that the Rector and Tonet, to
talk things over down on the beach, had sought out the shade of an old boat drawn up high and
dry on the sand. There would be plenty of time to get their tan on when they got out to sea.
The two men talked slowly and sleepily as if the glare and the heat along shore had gone to
their heads. A real day, come now! Who would have thought Easter was still a week away, when,
usually, there were squalls all the time and sudden tempests.

The sky, overflowing with sunlight, had a whitish sheen. A few silver clouds were lazily drifting
along like handfulls of foam scattered hap-hazard over the expanse of heaven; and from the
heated sands a damp radiation was shimmering, giving tremulous, hazy outlines to objects in
the distance. Nothing was going on along the beach itself. The casa del bòus, where the launching
oxen were idly chewing their cud, rose with its red roof and its blue trimmings, over long
lines of boats drawn up on shore to make a sort of nomad city with streets and cross roads,
much like a Greek encampment of the Heroic Age, when the triremes were used for entrenchments.
The lateen masts, gracefully tilted forward, with their points blunt and fat, looked like a
forest of headless lances. The tarred ropes twined and intertwined like lichens and vines.
Under the big sails, which had been lowered to the decks, a whole people of amphibians was
swarming,--red legs bare and caps pulled down over ears--repairing nets or tending galley fires
where fish were frying with appetizing fragrance. The hulls, of wide bilge, painted white or
blue, stretched away along the glaring shore, like big-bellied sailors lying on their backs
and taking the sun.

In this improvised city, which might, before the night was over, be broken up and scattered
to the four winds beyond the girdling horizon, the order and symmetry of a modern town laid
out by a surveyor could have been discerned. In the front line, nearest the waves which rippled
in like thin blades of crystal over the spangled sand, were the little boats, the trollers,
al volantí, tiny spry craft that looked like chicks of the heavy boats lying, in the row behind,
in pairs of the same size and color--barcas del bòu. In the third file, the retired veterans
of the shore, old hulks, their sides wide open, their worm-eaten ribs showing through the black
gaps, reminded one of the decrepit nags used in the bull ring, and lay meditating, it seemed,
on the ingratitude of men who do so little for deserving old age.

Rust-colored nets, with flannel shirts and trousers of yellow baize, were strung along most
of the masts; and above this array of color, some gulls, apparently drunk with sunshine, were
leisurely planing in wide circles, occasionally dropping for a moment into the sea, where the
water was shivering and seething in blebs of light under the high noon.

The Rector was talking about the weather, letting his yellowish eyes wander sleepily and placidly
over the sea and down the coast. Along the green horizon line some pointed sails dotted the
sky like wings of doves that might have been drinking off there. The shore at this point receded,
forming a bight in the land, with masses of green and clusters of white cottages alternating
along the coast. Here were the hills of the Puig, big swellings in the low-lying strand, which
the sea sometimes swept over in its angry moods. And there was the castle of Sagunto, its wavy
ramparts curling up and down along the summit of the ridge of caramel brown. Beyond that, and
closing the horizon shoreward, was the saw-toothed Cordillera, with ripples of red granite,
its unmoving crests reaching up to lap the sky like tongues.

Yes, the good weather had come early that year! You could take it from the Rector! Everybody
from the Cabañal knew that, in such matters, he had inherited from his master, tio Borrasca,
an instinct that never failed. A puff or two next week, a bit of chop, but nothing much! The
stormy season was over ahead of time, thank heaven, and a fellow could earn an honest day's
pay without fear of putting to sea.

The Rector talked drawlingly, biting at a black "cardoon" from a smuggler's stock, his whole
being swallowed up in the majestic slumber of the shore. Above the peaceful lulling whispers
of the sea, the voice of a girl came from far away, up from under the ground, it seemed, chanting
the monotonous cadence of a hoisting song: Oh ... oh ... isa! and a number of boys would tug
at the mast they were stepping, pulling all together at the proper beat in the sleepy rhythm.
It was dinner time; and tangle-haired women kept calling in shrill notes from the galley doors;
for the "cats" were off gadding in the barn, looking at the oxen. In every direction the heavy
mallets of calkers could be heard hammering away in deadening regularity. And all these noises
evaporated, as it were, into the vast, light-filled calm, where sounds and things took on outlines
of fantastic indistinctness.

Tonet studied his brother's face expectantly, waiting for that phlegmatic fellow, to whom words
came so hard, to finish formulating his proposal.

At last the Rector came to the point. In two words, he was tired of making money penny by penny
and day by day. He wanted to make a killing as so many others had done. There was a living
in the sea for any man. Some people ate bread black, after sweating for it; others took it
white and without the crust, for a moment's work--but risking something! You get the idea,
eh, Tonet!

But the Rector did not wait for Tenet's reply. He got up and walked to the bow of the old boat,
to see if any one were eavesdropping on the other side.

Not a soul! The beach was deserted as far as the eye could see, away along to the bath-houses
at the resort, where the Valencians came to play in summer. Beyond lay the harbor, prickly
with masts from the shipping, and flags everywhere, a maze of cross-trees and yards, red and
black smokestacks and cranes that looked like gibbets. Seaward stretched the Breakwater, a
cyclopean wall of red bowlders heaped up in confusion to make a lee on that storm-swept shore.
As background to the whole scene, the tall buildings of the Grao, warehouses, office buildings,--the
aristocracy and money of the port; and then a long straight line of roofs, the Cabañal, the
Cañamelar, the Cap de Fransa, a rambling agglomeration of many colored houses, less close together
as they left the water, summer places in front with many stories and slender cupolas, white
cabins behind, where the farm land began, the thatched coverings of the huts rumpled by the
strong sea winds.

There were no spies around. The Rector sat down again at his brother's side.

His wife had put the idea into his head. He had thought it over carefully, and come to the
conclusion it was a good one. A trip "across the way," as people remembered his father used
to say, over to the costa d'afora, to Algiers! No fishing, you understand. Fish aren't always
around when you need them most. No, not that! But a cargo of contraband, the boat crammed to
the decks with alguilla and flor de mayo, God of Gods! There, rediel, was business for you!
And that was what the old man had done a thousand times. Well, what did Tonet say?

The honest Rector, who would never have dreamed of breaking a town ordinance or a harbor rule,
laughed like a saint in heaven at the thought of that haul of tobacco which for days and days
had been dancing before his eyes, till now he could actually see the fragrant bundles standing
there wrapped in burlap on the sand. He was a son of the Spanish coast, proud of the deeds
of his ancestors. In his eyes smuggling was the one thing a self-respecting sailor could take
up when he got tired of fishing.

Tonet thought it was a bright idea. He had made two trips like that, though as ordinary seaman.
Now that business was dull on the wharves, and tio Mariano hadn't gotten him that job in the
coast and harbor survey he had wanted so, there was no reason why he shouldn't go along with
his brother.

The Rector rounded out the plan. The most important thing he had already--his own boat, la
Garbosa. Tonet gasped with surprise, so the Rector enlarged further on that detail. Of course
he realized the tub was broken amidships, the ribs strained, the deck warped and sagging in
the middle--squeaking like an old guitar every time a sea went under her, ready for breaking
up, about. But they hadn't fooled him, they hadn't fooled him! Thirty duros, he had paid, not
a cent more. And the firewood in her was worth that much. But she would keep afloat under men
who knew the taste of salt water. For his part, he could negotiate that pond in a shoe with
the tap gone! Besides, you see,--and he gave a knowing wink--if the revenue people caught them
and confiscated the boat--well, thirty duros! And that clinched the argument for the wily Rector.
Not a thought of the chance he was taking with his life in such a sieve!

The crew?... Himself, his brother, and two men he knew and could trust. That was all there
was to that. Now all he needed to do was have a talk with tio Mariano, who was on the inside
track down in Algiers, as an old hand at the business. And like a man who has his mind made
up and is afraid he'll change it if he waits too long, he thought he would go at once to see
that influential personage whom they both could be mighty proud to call their uncle. They would
probably find him--it was around noon you see--up at the Carabina, where he usually went to
sit a while and smoke.

And the two brothers started off in that direction. On walking past the ox-barn they glanced
casually at the tavern-boat, blacker and more ramshackle every day. Adiós, mare! They had caught
sight of their mother's glossy wrinkly face peering over the counter in front of the opening
into the wine store, her head swathed as usual in a white kerchief like a coif. Some dirty
underfed sheep were browsing the marsh grass near the first houses of the village. From the
pools of fresh water behind the dunes frogs were croaking in monotone, their garumps faintly
blending with the murmuring of the surf. Wine-colored nets, the warps festooned with cork toggles,
were spread out on the sand, and among them some young roosters were pecking about or grooming
their shiny feathers, all agleam with a metallic rainbow luster. Along the drain from the Gas
House a number of women on hands and knees were scrubbing clothes or washing dishes in a pestilential
water that stained the stones on its edges black. Here was the frame of a new boat about which
some carpenters were pounding, and from a distance the skeleton of unpainted timber looked
like the remains of some prehistoric saurian. Across the drain, some rope-walkers, hanks of
hemp about their waists, were backing away from the lathe, letting the yellow strands revolve
between their deft fingers. And then the Cabañal, so called from the miserable cabins there
which sheltered the very poorest of all those toilers of the sea! The streets were as straight
and regular as the buildings were capricious, of every shape and size. The red-brick sidewalks
went joyously up and down at different levels according to the height of the door sills on
the huts. The roads were sloughs of mud, with deep ruts, and puddles from rain that had fallen
weeks before. Two rows of dwarf olive trees brushed the heads of passersby with their dusty
branches, and ropes were stretched from trunk to trunk to serve as clothes-lines for the wash
of the water-front, which was waving like a regalia of banners in the fresh sea-breeze.

Cabins alternated with tenements of several stories. Those incorrigible tars could not forget
the water-line even when they were ashore, for all the buildings were finished off with spar-varnish,
and painted in two colors, like boats. Many a front door had a figure-head carved in wood,
as though that portal were the bow-sprit of the sailor's habitation, which, in all its details
of architecture, of color and line, called up memories of life at sea. The village looked like
a collection of grounded craft. In front of some of the cabins stout masts with pulleys had
been set up, and the pulley and mast meant that there lived a skipper of a pair of bòu-boats.
At the top of the staffs, the most complicated tackle was out drying, waving in the wind like
the majestic emblem of a consul. The Rector eyed those poles in envy unconcealed. When would
that Christ up at the Grao answer his prayer so that he could plant a mast like that in front
of his door in honor of Dolores?

Now the drain had come to an end. They were well into the village, in the section where people
from Valencia had their summer cottages. The houses here were low studded, with bulging gratings,
painted green, over the windows. Everything was closed and silent. Footsteps echoed back across
the broad sidewalks as in an abandoned town. Tufted plane trees were languishing in the solitude,
pining for the gay nights of summer when there was laughing everywhere, people running about,
and a piano banging in every cottage. Now scarcely any one was in sight. An occasional villager
went by, in his pointed cap, with his hands in his pockets, and his pipe in his mouth, sauntering
lazily toward this tavern or that; for the cafés were the only places where anything was going on.

The Carabina, for instance, was crowded. Under the awning in front were any number of blue
coats, black silk caps, and weather-beaten countenances. Dominoes were rattling on the tables,
and though everything was open to the air, the strong smell of gin and tobacco struck you in
the face.

Tonet had pleasant memories of the place--the scene of his triumphs in generosity in the first
months of his marriage to Rosario.

At one of the stands sat tio Mariano, pulling at his pipe and waiting, probably, for the sheriff,
or some other town notable, to enjoy the usual afternoon chat. He was listening in disdainful
condescension to tio Gori, an old ship-carpenter from down the beach, who had been going to
that café every afternoon for twenty years, to read the newspaper aloud, advertisements and
all, to a greater or smaller number of sailors, according to the chance offshore; and the men
would sit there silent and attentive till nightfall.

"So then, if you are ready, gentlemen ... Siñor Segasta has something to say to us to-day...."

But tio Gori held up his reading to observe to the man next to him:

"That Segasta is a humbug, you know!"

And with that comprehensive annotation, he adjusted his spectacles, and the Premier's speech
in the Cortes began to unwind, syllable by syllable, from under the carpenter's white tobacco-stained
mustache:

"Gen-tle-men-of-the-Cham-ber! In-re-ply-to-what-the-Hon-o-ra-ble-De-pu-ty-said-yes-ter-day...."

But before getting to the reply, the carpenter again looked up from his paper and, with a smile
of canny superiority, observed to his speechless expectant audience:

"That is a d---- d lie!"

Though the Rector had also spent whole afternoons at the feet of that man of letters, he now
failed to notice tio Gori at all. Respectfully and obediently, he advanced, instead, directly
toward his uncle, who had gone so far as to take the pipe out of his mouth to call to his nephews
with an: "Hey there, boys!" and motion to them to take the chairs he had been keeping for his
influential friends. Tonet sat down with his back to his brother and uncle, so as to follow
the fast game of dominoes that was rattling in a lively fashion at the next table. At times
his eyes would wander off through the smoky atmosphere toward the bar, where the pretty daughter
of tio Carabina--for him the principal attraction of the café--was serving drinks under a line
of marine chromos.

Señor Mariano el Callao--though no one dared use that last epithet in his hearing--was getting
on toward sixty, but was still a muscular and rather handsome man, with a weather-beaten face,
blood-shot eyes, a gray mustache as stiff and long and prickly as a tom-cat's whiskers, and
the general bullying air of an uneducated lout who had money enough to live on without working.
People had dubbed him el Callao because at least a dozen times every day he told the story
of that famous battle for the Peruvian seaport--the last that Spain relinquished in South America--which
he had witnessed as an ordinary seaman on the Numancia. In these narratives he mentioned the
admiral, Mendez Nuñez, in every other sentence,--"and don Casto says to me, says he"--as if
the hero had had him for his most intimate friend and right-hand man. What delighted his audiences
invariably, however, was his description of the actual combat, with imitations of a broadside
from his glorious frigate: boom! boo-oo-oo-oo--m!

In addition tio Mariano was one of the big men about town. He had been a smuggler in the happy
days when revenue agents, from Captain of the Port to ordinary patrolman, had hands but never
eyes. And even now, when things were not so lax, he would take a passive share in some enterprise
of the sort. But his principal activity was doing charity--lending the fishermen, or their
wives, advances on their pay at fifty per cent a month; and this had given him a grip on the
throats of the poorest elements along shore, so that he could deliver their vote bodily in
every election campaign. His nephews could hardly contain their pride when they heard him calling
mayors and sheriffs by their first names, or saw him, even, going up to Valencia in his best
clothes and a top hat, as member of a committee of leading citizens, to wait on the Governor.

A grasping, heartless Shylock, tio Mariano had a scent for loosening his purse strings at the
right moment. He knew the inside workings of every home for miles around. The Rector and Tonet,
who owed him nothing but the hope they had of inheriting something when he died, thought him
the most respectable and kindly man in the whole village, though very seldom had they been
admitted to his pretty house on Queen street, Calle de la Reina, where he lived alone with
a good-looking housekeeper, the only person in town who dared talk back to him, and was intimate
enough with his affairs even to know where he kept his "pile."

Tio Mariano listened to the Rector with eyes half closed and a vertical line knit between his
eyebrows. "Be d---- d, be d---- d! Of course! Not a bad idea at all, not at all!" That's the
way he liked people--with some gumption! And he seized the occasion to brag of his own biography
as a fool successful in getting rich, telling how he had left the navy without a cent in his
pocket, and, to get out of the rut his father and grandfather had been in as fishermen, had
started off on the underground route to Gibraltar and Algiers, to do his bit toward keeping
business going and to give people something else to smoke besides the stink-weed forced on
the public by the government! Thanks to the Lord, who had stood by him through thick and thin,
and to his own guts--don't forget that--he had made a little something--enough to keep him
from worrying in his old age! But times weren't what they had been! The revenue men were now
in charge of young navy officers just off the school-ships, with all sorts of stuck-up ideas
in their heads and ears a yard long to catch any talk that was going around; and not a one
of them would keep his eyes shut for an hour, if you paid him half his weight in gold. Why,
last month they had caught three boats coming from Marseilles with a cargo of cloth! You had
to be careful, you had to be careful! Too much blabbing going on all the time. The Q. T., that
was the watchword! The Rector had made up his mind? Well, then, straight ahead! His Uncle Mariano
would not be the man to throw cold water on an idea like that. He wanted the boys in his family
to have ambition and try to get somewhere in the world. Poor old Pascualo would have turned
out better if he'd stuck to that business and not gone back to fishing!

Well, how much did the Rector need? Quite frank now!--as though he were talking to a father.
If it had been a matter of fishing, not a penny. Hell of a trade for a fellow, that, where
you killed yourself working and died poor as a rat. But for something of that other kind, all
he wanted, all he wanted! Somehow or other, this business of cheating the government always
appealed to tio Mariano! A man's job!

The Rector timidly outlined what he thought he ought to have, stopping every other word, as
though he were afraid of asking too much. But his uncle took the short cut to the conclusion.
Boat? He had the boat. Very well! He, tio Mariano, would see to all the rest. He would drop
a line to some friends of his on the "market" at Algiers. They would give the Rector a good
load on credit, and if he were spry and got it ashore all right, a way would be found to sell
it. "Thanks ever so much, uncle, grasies, tio! Que bo es vosté! It's certainly nice of you."
And the Rector's eyes were almost running over with tears. But tio Mariano didn't like sentiment.
What was he in the family for? He always had poor Pascualo on his mind. What a way to die!
There was a man of pluck for you! Oh, by the way, the Rector would get a full third of the
proceeds ... seeing he was one of the family.... You couldn't stick on your full rights with
a boy of your own flesh and blood! And the Rector, still moved at his uncle's lavish kindness,
nodded grateful assent.

They sat on in silence for a while. Tonet was all taken up with the game nearby, and did not
try to follow the conversation which the two men were carrying on, as much with their eyes,
almost, as with their lips, which hardly moved.

And when were they intending to start, tio Mariano went on. Right away, he supposed; so he
had better get his letter off without delay. The Rector assured him, however, it would be out
of the question to sail before Easter-Saturday. He would be better pleased to leave earlier
in the week, but there was that procession to the Sepulcher with the body of Christ on Good
Friday, and he had promised to lead the mob of "Jews." Something he couldn't really miss. Been
in the family, years and years--that part in the ceremonies of Holy Week, and many people were
waiting for a chance to get it. The hangman's costume he wore for that occasion had belonged
to his father.

Though tio Mariano passed for an infidel in town, because the curate never got a red cent out
of him on any pretext, he nodded solemn approval of his nephew's pious intention. Quite right,
quite right--everything in its own time and place! The Rector and his brother rose to their
feet on seeing that the august personages their uncle had been expecting were approaching.
They could depend on him, then. Yes, and another talk later on to fix on the last details.
Would they have a little something? What? Not been to dinner yet? Well, it would be waiting
for them at home, probably! Hasta la vista, chiquets! And the two boys walked slowly off down
the deserted sidewalk on their way back to the cabin district.

"And what did uncle say?" Tonet asked casually.

The Rector, who never wasted any words if he could help it, moved his head up and down vertically.
Tonet beamed with excited joy. A sure thing, then! Fine! Pascualo was at last on the road to
money, and he, well, at least, he could see his way through the summer. The good-natured Rector
kept reflecting to himself on what an unselfish fellow his brother was, and almost felt like
hugging him. Yes, that boy's heart was in the right place! Fond as could be of him and of Dolores,
and he loved little Pascualet as though the baby were his own child! If only their two wives
could get along together a little better....

CHAPTER IV

MARY AND JESUS MEET

Though the early morning sky was bright and cloudless, the streets of the Cabañal were rumbling
as in a thunderstorm. People jumped out of bed as the crashing almost split their eardrums;
and good women of the village, their hair still down and in wrappers hastily thrown on, went
out on the sidewalk in front of their doors to see what was going on. The bluish transparency
of dawn was barely gilded with the rays of the still invisible sun. But the "Jews of Jerusalem"
were on a rampage, banging their harsh cymbals together as they marched along the streets.
One would have thought the Calendar had suddenly gone mad and transported Carnival to Easter
week. The most grotesque horribles were gathering in the squares. The young folks of the town
were out in costume; for the procession of the Encuentro, in the environs of Valencia, is virtually
a masquerade.

Far down the long street, what looked like an army of cockroaches could be seen assembling,
figures, called las vestas, in tall, black, sharp-pointed hoods, like so many astrologers,
or judges of the Inquisition, their cloth masks rolled up over their foreheads, their long
black trains hung over their arms, and each with a baton painted black in one hand. Some of
the paraders, to add a touch of ingenuity, had slipped white petticoats on, well ironed and
pleated, and from under them pairs of trousers protruded with the legs turned up, and, at the
very bottom, top-shoes unutterably tormenting enormous feet accustomed to walking bare on the
sands.

Then came the "Jews," fierce villains apparently snatched from some lowly stage for dramas
of the Middle Ages that could afford only a conventional costume of poor quality. Their induments
were what the Valencian populace refers to as its "war trappings," short skirts or kilts, much
mottled with spangles, trimmings and lace fringes, like the tunic of the Apaches; helmets topped
off with huge cock plumes, arms and legs "armored" with a rude fabric of cotton tufts to give
a distant suggestion of mail. To cap the climax of caricature and anachronism, following the
vestas and the "Jews," came--tall and handsome fellows all--the "Virgin's Grenadiers," wearing
high-fronted caps like those of Frederick's Prussian guards, with black uniforms decorated
with silver lace that must surely have been ripped from the caskets in an undertaker's store.

A stranger might have laughed at that naïf array had he dared brook the wrath of those solemn
boys whose faces all wore expressions of stern professional seriousness. It is never safe to
make fun of an army ready to fight; and these "Jews" and "grenadiers" who were to guard the
crucified Christ and his mother were carrying, unsheathed in their hands, all the varieties
of sword known from the dawn of history to the present time, beginning with the heavy cavalry
saber of the ordinary marcher, to the slender, delicate rapier of the drum-major.

Following the march, or keeping up with it along its flanks, trooped the gamins of the town,
enviously studying the colorful uniforms. Mothers, sisters and sweethearts looked on admiringly
from their doorways: "There he is, there! Do you see him? Reina y siñora! How grand he looks!"
The devout procession, like the parade that heralds the coming of a circus to town, seemed
to recall to the sinful, backsliding population of the Cabañal that at seven A. M. sharp Jesus
and his mother would meet--hence the name Encuentro--in the middle of the Calle de San Antonio,
in front of the "Side of Bacon," the tavern of tio Chulla.

As the twilight brightened into the rosy glow of sunrise, promising a warm spring day, the
martial uproar about the village grew. There were drums, cornets and brass horns sounding on
every hand. An army seemed suddenly to have descended on the Cabañal. The various companies--collas,
as they are called--had formed four abreast, and solemn, stiff, and as much admired as soldiers
returning from victory, were marching to the homes of their respective captains to collect
the banners displayed there--weird standards of black velvet embroidered with the horrifying
symbols of the Passion.

The Rector was hereditary captain of the "Jews," and long before dawn he had gotten up and
crammed his person into the handsome costume that was kept securely locked in a chest at other
times of the year and was revered by the whole family as the treasure of the house. Lord help
us! What are we coming to! Every Easter the poor Rector was getting fatter and fatter and finding
it a more and more serious task to stuff his corpulency into that tight-fitting "coat-of-mail."
Dolores, in her nightgown and with her hair down, was making the tour of his spacious waist,
pushing in the stomach here, and stretching the cloth there, to make room for one more cubic
inch of husband inside the cotton armor. On the bed sat little Pascualet gazing in amazement
and alarm at that helmet with Indian plumes on the man's head and at that menacing cavalry
saber which clanked against the walls and the furniture every time the Rector turned around.
Could that be papa?

At last the dread toilette was over. Not exactly what you would call comfortable, but they
had spent enough time over it. The Rector's underwear, at odds with the stringency encircling
it, was all lumpy, and what looked like tumors could be seen standing out under the "Jew's"
stockings. And those trousers! They were so tight around the middle that the poor man could
hardly breathe. His helmet, far too small for his head, kept slipping forward and bumping on
his nose. But this was a day for dignity, not for ease! And the Rector drew his saber, struck
up a rub-a-dub-dub in his stentorian voice, and began to stride up and down the room, as though
the baby there were a crown prince reviewing guard. His wife's golden, mysterious eyes followed
him as he walked back and forth from one wall of the bedroom to the other like a bear in a
cage. She was tempted to laugh at those bandy legs; but no--she liked him better in that costume
than in the tarred and pitchy clothes he came home from work in at night, tired out and stupid
from toil.

And now they were coming! The "Jews" could be heard, with their band, down the street. They
would be wanting their banner. Dolores hastily threw a wrapper on, while the captain advanced
to the frontiers of his domain to welcome his army. The lurid company drew up in front of the
house. The drum-beat softened in tone, but continued to give the rhythm for the privates who
stood there marking time, keeping their heads and bodies and legs moving energetically in space
but without moving from their positions. Tonet and two other "Jews" came gravely forward, entered
the house, and started for the second story, whence the standard was hanging from a window.

Dolores met her brother-in-law on his way upstairs, and instantly, instinctively, she drew
the overwhelming comparison. There was a real soldier, a general! Tonet had something about
him that distinguished him from the uncouthness and clumsiness of the others--of the other.
His legs were straight, and his stockings had no wrinkles--everything in his make-up was stylish,
well fitting, sleek. He belonged to the Juan Tenorios, the royal don Pedros, the Henri Lagardères,
she had seen on the stage of the theater of La Marina, reciting verses and fighting duels that
had thrilled her to the bottom of her soul.

And now all the collas were off toward the church, their bands and banners in front of them,
looking, from a distance, like troops of glossy insects moving up and down in the rhythm of
the march. The Encuentro was at hand! Two processions were coming-down different streets. In
one was the Virgin, weeping, sorrowful, escorted by her guard of funereal grenadiers; in the
other, Jesus, in a showy purple mantle spangled with gold, his hair awry, his face stained
with blood, collapsing under the burden of the Cross. The image had fallen on the rocks of
painted cork that covered its pedestal. Around the Christ, to prevent his escape, crowded the
ruthless "Jews," who, in line with their parts, had marshaled ferocious scowls; and with the
"Jews" came the vestas, their masks lowered now and their trains dropped and dragging through
the puddles. The whole scene was so dreadful, so awe-inspiring, that children along the road
began to scream and to hide in fright behind their mothers' skirts.

Siñor!... Ay, siñor, Deu meu!... the old fisherwomen murmured sympathetically at sight of the
bleeding Christ in the clutches of that mob of infidels.

The low-pitched cymbals were clanging meanwhile, and the cornets were shrieking long-sustained,
ear-splitting blasts like the bellowing of calves in a slaughter-house. In the midst of the
throng of cruel guards marched some tall, well-built girls, with painted cheeks, and in costumes
copied from the Turkish maidens of comic opera. They carried water jugs to show they were the
Biblical women from Samaria. From their mothers they had borrowed earrings and breast-pins.
Their plump legs were ostentatiously exposed in open-work stockings under short Polish peasant
skirts. But this was not the occasion for mocking raillery from the men in the crowds.

Among the spectators, to be sure, were a few pale faces and blue-ringed eyes--revelers who
had been up all night and, to finish their carousals, had come down from Valencia to witness
the famous popular festival. But if such people ventured a smile at any incongruity in the
costumes, a soldier of Pilate would step up and raise his saber menacingly, calling them to
order in righteous indignation:

"Morrals! Morrals! Hey, there, you pig! This is not a joke! The idea! The most religious ceremony
of the coast, and as old as the Cabañal itself! You're no gentleman! You must come from Valencia.
But I'll teach you manners, if you don't behave yourself!"

The "meeting" place, on a crossing of the Calle de San Antonio, along which, every now and
then, some tiles of curious design had been placed to mark the stations of the march to Calvary,
was drawing the bulk of the crowd. Rough, aggressive shore-women, in checkered shawls and with
kerchiefs on their heads for hats, were competing restlessly for places in the front line.

Among a group of older ones Rosario was stoutly defending her excellent position on the sidewalk
with her elbows and her knees. Had they seen her Tonet? Not a "Jew" in the whole lot to compare
with him! And in all this enthusiasm for her handsome husband, the poor woman was still rubbing
the bruises he had inflicted on her that morning in the course of getting his costume out and
on. But suddenly Rosario felt a rude shove which brushed her aside, while a compact, muscular
female body crowded into the place she had been occupying. She looked around. Did any one ever
hear of such brazen impudence! It was Dolores, leading Pascualet by the hand! They had at last
forced their way through the crushing throng. The comely girl still had her usual pout of disdain
as she looked at people and carried herself with her habitual queenly pride. The harlot! Yet
how everybody made way for her and fawned upon her in spite of her conceit!

To the exceeding alarm of tia Picores, the two women stood there frowning at each other angrily.
Their reconciliation some days before in the ice-cream place had been nothing but a truce.
They had promised to be good friends, but without much warmth, and one could see from the looks
in their eyes at the time that there would be trouble again soon. Rosario, taken aback by the
violence of the push that had displaced her, rested content with a grimace. What nice manners
some people had! Some people wanted the earth with a fence around it! Gangway for Her Majesty
the Queen! Well, there are people and people in this world! And the wrong sort reveal themselves--you
don't have to bother to point them out.

As the pale, sickly woman muttered on, her face grew redder and redder with the intoxication
of her own words. Her friends near by kept nudging her, egging her on to stand her ground.
Dolores, meanwhile, began to toss her gorgeous head like a lioness preparing to cuff at a hornet
buzzing behind her back. However, the processions were debouching into the square, and a wave
of expectancy swept over the multitude.

Slowly the two lines of celebrants approached each other, measuring their steps so as to reach
the designated spot at exactly the same moment. The sun was darting its first golden rays upon
the purple robe of Jesus, the maze of plumes, helmets and upraised swords of the guards--one
bright, sparkling brilliancy. From the other direction came the Virgin, bobbing up and down
on her throne in rhythm with the footsteps of her bearers, dressed in a black velvet gown with
widow's weeds, some big wax tears glistening on her face, and--to catch them, supposedly--a
black-bordered mourning handkerchief in her stiff, lifeless hands. She it was who riveted the
attention of all the mothers present. Many of them began to weep. Ay reina y soberana! How
she must be suffering! A mother finding her boy in a fix like that! Suppose I should meet my
boy--do you see him over there, and isn't he handsome?--handcuffed, and on the way to the penitentiary!
And I'm only an ordinary mother! The fisherwomen were now groaning and weeping all around the
square, not forgetting, meanwhile, to study the Virgin's costume for any improvement or shortcoming
as compared with the year before.

The exciting moment was now at hand. The drums ceased beating, the cornets interrupted their
dolorous bleating, and the bands were hushed. The images of Jesus and Mary were face to face.
A plaintive, tremulous voice began to recite in monotone some stanzas which told how very sad
and mournful the whole scene was. Tio Grancha, an aged velvet-spinner, came down from Valencia
every year to declaim those couplets, and his art was one of the attractions of the festival!
What a voice! How it went to your heart! And that is why a riot almost started when some gamblers
in the "Side-of-Bacon" began to laugh at a turn in their game, and people rushed to the doors
exclaiming angrily:

"Shut up ... shut up ... you vermin!"

The images tilted back and forth, in symbolic pantomime of desperate and sorrowful farewell!

Meanwhile, Dolores could not take her eyes off the arrogant, elegant "Jew" who contrasted so
favorably with his bandy-legged captain. She was standing with her back toward Rosario, but
that did not prevent the latter from divining the object of her gaze. And did you see that?
A married woman making eyes at a married man, and right in the presence of her husband! And
all this in public! And what went on in private, when that Tonet went to her house on the pretext
of playing with the baby, and found her alone?

The two processions had now joined and were going back toward the church. The jealous, infuriated
woman continued, in a half-audible voice, to hurl her insulting tirade over those broad, exuberant
shoulders in front of her--a splendid pedestal for a beautiful head with luxuriant hair. Dolores
turned around with a smirk of biting ridicule on her face. Beg pardon! Had all that been for
her? When would that dirty scullion stop annoying a lady? Couldn't a person look at a parade
without being insulted? And a glitter of gold sparkled with a wicked gleam in the pupils of
her sea-green eyes.

Yes, came the reply. It had all been for her, every word! An immoral, impudent wench, who was
always eyeing other women's husbands! Dolores laughed contemptuously. Thanks! Rosario could
keep her husband, for all she cared. What a jewel he was, besides! She had her own man and
that was enough for her. Tonet might do for other women, if they were fool enough to take him
on. But for the thief there's nobody in the world but thieves! No, madam, her job in life was
not stealing husbands, but slapping the faces of lying gossips who talked too much!

"Mare, Mare!" screamed Pascualet, clinging to the skirts of his beautiful mother, who, her
dark skin pale as death, had drawn herself up to her full height preparing to throw herself
upon her enemy. Rosario, meanwhile, was struggling to shake off a number of women who were
holding her pinioned by her weak, flaccid arms.

"What's going on here? At it again, eh?" It was the harsh, scolding voice of tia Picores, who
had interposed her towering form between the combatants. She would settle the row! She knew
how to handle those hot-heads. "You, Dolores, home with you! And you, you groveling, lying
slanderer, get out of my sight and hearing." And with a shove and a threat, first in one direction
and then the other, she put them both to rout.

Lord, Lord, what people! And on Good Friday! On Good Friday! And right in front of Mary and
Jesus! God might forgive them, but she wouldn't! The thousandth time! And that's the way they
bring up girls nowadays. And when the stern old woman saw that the younger ones were still
shouting insults at each other from a distance, she went at them again, shaking her fists and
calling them names, till they were dragged away by their partisans.

The quarrel was soon the talk of all the Cabañal. After the services were over there was another
disturbance in the household of Tonet, who, without waiting to take his costume off, thrashed
his wife within an inch of her life for making a fool of him in public. And the Rector also
brought the subject up while Dolores was prying him out of his uniform, and his flesh was gradually
resuming its normal rotundity. He was sorry to say so, but that poor Rosario was crazy. Tonet
might be all he might be--and it was true that brandy didn't do him any good! Just the same,
it was a pity to see him tied to a woman about as easy to handle as a porcupine. But a brother
was a brother in his eyes! He wasn't going to break with the son of his own father just to
please that fool of a woman! Much less at that particular moment, when there would be a chance
to make a real man of Tonet. Dolores, though hardly yet recovered from the excitement of the
brawl, nodded approval to all he said.

And the Rector thought no more about it. He had that little matter on his mind. And, in fact,
the following day, just as the bells were ringing for the service of Holy Saturday, while revolvers
were being fired in festive celebration about town, and gamins were going from house to house
beating upon front doors with sticks, la Garbosa, that leaky death-trap hardly able to keep
afloat, with a complete outfit for fishing aboard to make her look like a seiner, raised her
huge lateen sail, new and strong and white, and slipped away from the beach of the Cabañal,
taking the first sea swells like a time-worn beauty, frilled and painted up to make one last
conquest.

CHAPTER V

TWO WOMEN QUARREL

It had stopped raining about daybreak. At five o'clock the street lamps of Valencia were still
burning, their flickering lights mirrored red as blood in the puddles of the uneven pavement.
The irregular line of housetops was just beginning to stand out against an ashen background
of sky brightening with the first glow of morning. The night watch-men were unhooking their
lanterns from their stations at the street-crossings and walking off, stamping their chilled
feet after wishing a listless bon dia to the pairs of hooded policemen who would not be relieved
until seven o'clock. Faint from the distance through the stillness came the whistling of the
morning trains leaving the suburbs. The church towers were beginning to clang with the first
calls to the mass of sunrise, some of the bells droning and indistinct like the voices of old
women, others shrill and high pitched like the chirping of children. From roof to roof--their
city quarters--cocks were exchanging strident challenges to battle.

And now the deserted, rain-soaked streets were slowly awakening with the strangely resonant
sounds of footsteps, as the earliest risers stepped out upon the sidewalks, though the closed
doors and the grated windows still transmitted the subdued murmur of a city in the last heavy
breathings of tranquil slumber. The sky was growing gradually brighter as if numberless thin
veils were being torn asunder one by one from across the pathway of the invisible sun. A gray,
cold pallor was stealing over the darker alleys and side streets, while, like a fade-in on
the cinema screen, the contours of the town began to come into clearer view: the fronts of
the houses shining from their recent drenching; the eaves dripping with the last few drops
of rain; the roofs gleaming like polished silver; the trees along the broader avenues, naked
and shorn as brooms, shaking their leafless branches, while water seemed to ooze from their
fungus-covered trunks.

The Gas House of Valencia, weary from its sustained labors of a night, was snorting with the
last puffs of steam. The huge gasometers were sinking low between their steel girders; and
the tall brick chimney was throwing out its final belches of thick black smoke, which spread
curling over the field of space in an ever-widening blotch. In the neighborhood of the Sea
Bridge, the customs agents, burying their faces in their mufflers, were walking up and down
to shake off the damp chill of the morning. Through the windows of the revenue office the clerks
who had just arrived could be seen moving their sleepy heads to and fro.

They had been waiting there for the vendors to come into town--a quarrelsome crew trained to
haggling and embittered by poverty, ready, for the difference of a centime, to spend a limitless
capital of swear-words and insults, and never successful in reaching market without a string
of brawls with the guards who laid the duties on their goods. The produce wagons and the milch
cows with their rattling bells had gone through before daybreak. Only the fisherwomen were
still to come, a noisy flock of witches, dirty, slimy, in rags, making the air ring with their
shrieks and wrangling, stinking to heaven with dead fish and all the odors of shore life which
clung to their uncouth petticoats.

It was broad day, and the light, now harsh and blue, was throwing every object into a clean-cut
outline up against the leaden sky, when, with a lazy tinkle of distant bells, four tartanas
hove in view, making their way toward the Sea-Bridge, drawn by wretched nags that seemed able
to keep their feet only because the drivers, huddled low in their seats, their coat collars
turned up over their ears, kept pulling at the reins. The black bodies of the two-wheeled wagons
pitched about over the ruts in the road like old belly-cracked boats tossing at the mercy of
the waves. The wagon-hoods showed their reed framework here and there through the rents in
their tarred canvas. Plasters of red paste covered some of the smaller holes. The ironwork
was squeaky and broken, the breaks repaired with strings. The wheels were splashed and scaly
with the winter's mud. Outfits, decidedly, that had seen better days!

The front openings of the wagon-coverings were protected by flaps, painted, for one trace of
ornament, at least, in a red, now faded. Looking into the vehicles from behind, where everything
was open, the señoras of the Fishmarket, sitting in rows with their baskets, might have been
seen, each woman wearing a checkered shawl, with a colored kerchief covering breast and shoulders.
So the rickety carts came on, leaving behind them as they passed a sickening stench of rotting
sea-life. They tilted alarmingly as one wheel would sink into a deep hole, till the wheel on
the other side would find a chasm just as deep, and the hood careened in that direction.

The four tartanas pulled up in front of the office; and down over their steps numberless worn-out
shoes, undarned stockings, dirty, protruding heels began to come, under a flutter of skirts
caught up in front over yellow petticoats with black arabesques. The baskets were set down
in line near the platform of the scales, each covered with a wet cloth. From underneath the
strip of canvas shone the silver of a herring or the vermilion of a salmon, or the greenish
blue of a lobster's claw, quivering with the tremor of agony. Alongside the baskets lay the
bigger fish, broad-tailed sea-bass, their circular jaws wide open, showing the white, round
tongues and the dark throats, while their bodies were stretched backward, taut in the contraction
of death; and flat, enormously wide skates, their fins spread out on the ground like kites
of brown cloth, slimy and viscous to the touch.

The scales happened to be occupied by some out-of-town bakers, good-looking fellows with square
leather aprons, their sleeves rolled up, and flour in their hair and eyebrows. They were weighing
out bags of fresh, nutty bread, which seemed to bring a fragrance of life into that nauseating
ambient of sea-carrion. Waiting for their turn, the fish-women were blarneying with customs
men or idlers who stood about looking at the big fish with the curiosity of landlubbers. Meanwhile,
other women were coming in on foot from down the coast, carrying their baskets on their heads
or by the handles. The group was growing in numbers every minute, and the line of baskets now
reached clear from the scales to the bridge.

The officials were getting bad-tempered with that snarling, loud-talking mob of harpies who
wore them out every morning with their quarrelsomeness and unreasonable haggling. Every one
of them shouted at you as if you had no ears, reënforcing every other word with an interjection
from that inexhaustible store of epithet native to the shores of the Mediterranean. Rivals,
on meeting here again after a set-to on the beach the day before, would revive the passions
of the unsettled argument, annotating insults with obscene gestures, emphasizing accusations
with cadenced slapping of hands on thighs, or lifting clenched fists above their heads as if
they were about to strike. And then, when you would think of calling the police, if not the
undertaker, laughter, suddenly everywhere, as though the hens in a big hen coop had started
cackling all at once! Some one of the combatants had scored with an unusually cutting or scurrilous
phrase!

The bakers were slow in getting off the scales; so gibes began to rain on them; and they, for
their part, were not the men to accept such taunts in silence. Indecencies, blasphemies, slanderous
genealogies began to fly back and forth, though the deadliest thrusts seemed to rouse only
friendly grins and guffaws.

Outstanding in the thickest of the riot, and the center of most attention, stood Dolores, la
del Retor, as comely as usual and better dressed than any of the others, carelessly leaning
against a corner of the office shanty, her arms folded behind her back, her magnificent bust
thrown forward, smiling with satisfied complacency at the interested glances that reached her
tan shoes and the red stockings so blatantly advertising her well-shaped ankles. At the sharpest
jokes she heard she opened her luscious lips and her man-eating jaws wide enough to show two
rows of strong, even, pearl-white teeth that gave a suggestion of marble luminousness to her
darkish features.

A girl of "prestige," obviously--and why not? A solid cuff in that plump right hand of hers,
and a tongue in her head, I can tell you, when she had a mind to use it! The wife of Pascualo
el Retor, besides, a good-natured fat-head who ate out of her hand and never dared peep inside
his own house; but all there, when it came to making a living out of the sea--a pot of money,
earned, every cent of it, by good, honest, straightforward fishing.

All this Dolores knew. And that, doubtless, was why she stood there with the self-possession
of a Grand Duchess, surveying that dirty-mouthed, dirty-clothed rabble of the Fishmarket, and
perking her lips disparagingly when some one noticed her real pearl earrings, or the Algerian
scarf, or the red-flannel petticoat from Gibraltar the Rector had given her! In fact, the only
woman she thought quite her class was "Granny" Picores, agüela Picores, a veteran of the Fishmarket,
a whale of a woman, mastodontic, who cowed every policeman in the market with one glare from
her incinerating eyes, or one bellow from that cavernous mouth of hers, the center upon which
all the wrinkles in her face converged.

"Cristo, when will you fools be through!" Dolores finally shouted at the bakers, her seductive
arms akimbo. And the husky young men, moving a little slower than usual, if anything, answered
in kind, but tossing their salacious repartees in the direction of the fish-hags who lined
up around the scales with hands folded over protruding abdomens and adding a grotesque enlargement
to those already conspicuous bulges. But at last the weighing of the fish could begin: "Hey
there, me first, you----!" "No, my turn, you----!" "You were first yesterday!" The usual morning
fight for precedence was on, waiting for arbitration by tia Picores, with her cannonading voice
and formidable obscenities. But Dolores had not joined the squabble--she even missed the place
her basket held, by rights, in the line. Something on the bridge had caught her eye; and, in
fact, over the side rails of that structure the head and shoulders of a straggler could be
seen advancing slowly, staggering along under the weight of a heavy load.

An expression of diabolical cruelty overspread the handsome countenance of Dolores; and when
the laggart fish-woman had reached the nearer end of the bridge, near the customs office, the
girl burst into an insolent, ridiculing laugh. She touched agüela Picores on the arm:

"Look, granny, late as usual. And what can you expect from a mess of lazy-bones like that!"

Rosario grew pale as death, and it was with a sigh of faintness and fatigue that she set her
basket on the ground. She looked at Dolores, with what hatred her exhaustion could let gather
in her eyes. Then she sat down on the burden she had been carrying. For a second the two enemies
surveyed each other from head to foot, their year-long resentment boiling up within them.

Dolores wiped her nose with an arm, snorting, as at a pinch of snuff. "Yes, I'd sit down, if
I were you, mud-puppy. God, when Tonet was taking a wife, why didn't he get a woman!" Rosario
did her best to parry the flood of insults: Sit down? Why not sit down--since God had given
her something to sit on and she had a place to put it! Besides, an honest woman need not be
afraid to be seen walking. She couldn't hire a coach-in-four--by playing fast and loose with
her husband! "And it's me you're talking to!" exclaimed Dolores, stepping forward with blood
in her eyes. But she did not go far. For her "Granny's" clawed talons were upon her shoulder,
pulling her back. "Into the cart with you! Your fish is weighed! No public scenes to-day! It's
late, and they want their orders up in the Market! Of all the loving pairs of sisters!..."
And the old Tartar was now in front of Dolores, thrusting the girl back toward the tartana
with bumps from her huge stomach. But the beauty's lips were trembling white with emotion,
though she obeyed; but with one foot on the step of the cart, she hurled back one parting shot:

"Tu, ya se vorem, Rosario!"

Have it out later? Of course they would. You say when, Dolores! And Rosario, her arms really
so weak and flaccid, laid hold on a heavy basket in an impulse of rage and tossed it like a
pebble on to the scales.

The clouds from the night's storm were burning off with the advent of the sun, which was making
a triumphant entrance upon the day, rolling its molten gold horizontally over the streets,
gilding the puddles, and painting the house fronts and window-panes with the reddening brilliancy
of a conflagration. The town was now quite awake. The street-cars were crowded with people,
and the sidewalks on either hand were lined with still drowsy laborers on their way to work,
their lunch baskets hung over their shoulders and cigar butts in their mouths. Pairs of relief
horses for the police were being driven through the street by boys riding bareback on one of
their two steeds.

Servant girls were tripping along toward market. Street sweepers were busy at work on the mud
the rain had washed into the gutters, where cows at intervals were being milked. The sheet-iron
coverings of store windows were being raised, letting the light in upon the colorful displays
inside. Through open doors the scratching of brooms on floors could be heard, while clouds
of dust came driving out, making Jacob's-ladders of the sunbeams.

When the tartanas reached the Pescadería the women porters there hurried out to meet them and
help the sailors' wives unload. Servile before these latter, whom they regarded as bosses,
they trooped in line through the narrow cell-like doors of the fish-portico, fetid air-holes,
through which the stenches from inside poured out. The baskets were dumped on the marble flooring
and the fish arranged in line on beds of seaweed. On every hand were trundles of big fish and
barrels where the "produce" of the day before was packed in ice.

Across the market was another line of vendors, dressed in costumes like those from the Cabañal,
but more miserable in appearance, if anything, and with more repulsive faces still. They were
the women of Albufera, a strange concentration of poverty and degradation, housing in wretched
shanties a people that lives among the reeds and mud of the lake marshes, fishing in the murky,
shallow waters from black, bluff-bowed boats that look like coffins. On these ashen, weather-beaten
features indigence was drawn in its most ghastly outlines. Every eye was aglow with the wild
gleam of fever; and the odors that came from clothes, here, had not the vigorous pungency of
the open seashore, but the subtle nausea of swamp land and the infectious muck of stagnant
pools. The bags these women were emptying on the tables were squirming masses of life. As the
eels came out they twisted into rings of black slime, or wriggled on their white bellies, or
lifted their pointed heads like snakes. Nearby, whitening, dead, lay the fresh-water fry, tench,
for the most part, insufferably noisome, glittering with the subdued metallic luster of poisonous
tropical fruit. Here, too, was a higher and lower caste in misery, for the least fortunate
vendors of this section had seats, not at the tables, but on the floors, whence they were offering
frogs strung on sticks with their four legs distended.

Business was just beginning in the Fishmarket. The customers were coming in, and mysterious
signals were flying back and forth among the stalls mixed with strange words from the jargon
of the fish-mongers. The inspectors were outside! As fast as possible false scales vanished
under aprons or petticoats. Meanwhile, old and grimy knives were slitting the silvery bellies
of the fish, the guts falling hap-hazard under tables or counters. An occasional dog would
come running by, sniffing at the offals lying around and with a snort of disgust passing on
toward the neighboring porticos, where the butchers were holding forth. The fish-women who
had been playfully twitting each other an hour before in their tartanas or at the customs house
now sat watching each other, whenever a marketer came along, with hostile jealousy. An atmosphere
of struggle, of relentless competition pervaded the ill-smelling, reeking environment. The
women kept calling off their fish in shrill, piercing tones, or beating on their dirty scales
to attract the attention of some possible purchaser. Smiles and quaint greetings of endearment
would welcome the housewife as she came up; but if she found prices too high and passed on,
a deluge of filthy epithet would follow after her, and the insolent ridicule would be taken
up by the whole crew of vendors, instinctively standing together against the buyer.

Tia Picores, towering with the majesty of a battle-scarred whale in her tall armchair, sat
twitching her wrinkly mustached lips and frequently changing position to get the full warmth
of the brazier she kept daily burning at her feet till full summer-time. As a veteran of the
market, she had her regular trade and did not try overmuch to attract new customers. Her delight
it was to take the lead in spitting curses upon the grumbling townswomen who went in person
to do their shopping with their maids; and her drawling voice always had the last word in the
disputes that went on. Her hair-raising obscenity and the apothegms from her philosophy of
shame, which she got off with the solemnity of an oracle, were the principal sources of mirth
throughout the portico. The stall across the aisle in front of her belonged to Dolores, who
worked with her sleeves rolled up, playing with the bright, gilded scales she owned or showing
her beautiful teeth in coquettish smiles when men came by. For many gentlemen in town went
marketing by themselves, filling their neat, red-edged baskets at her counter for the pleasure
of a chat with the charming girl. Rosario, two tables beyond tia Picores, was busy putting
the freshest of her wares to the fore. The two girls were thus face to face, though they avoided
each other's eyes disdainfully, each turning her back when the other one looked her way, though
immediately afterwards they would be staring impudently and angrily at each other again.

It was not long before a pretext for their daily quarrel was available. A man had stopped at
Rosario's counter and was bargaining, when Dolores, with a vigorous rapping on her scales and
one of her prettiest smiles, enticed him in her direction. "Thief! Thief! He was my customer--one
of my best! And you've taken him away! I sell fish, I do; but you sell ...!" And the pale,
bony cheeks of the frail, overworked Rosario flamed red with spite and her gleaming eyes flashed
fire. Dolores, drawing herself up to her most crushing height of haughtiness, seemed to sniff
with her chubby but handsome nose: "Huh! Thief! Never mind about thieves, darling! People here
know who I am; and they know who you are; and if they come to me ..."

The outlook for an interesting morning in the market suddenly improved. The fish-women brightened
on every hand, even neglecting their custom to crane their necks and take in everything that
was going on. With smiles of amusement, the customers began to crowd around, while the inspector,
foreseeing what was coming, prudently slipped out, though he had scarcely begun his rounds.
Tia Picores, in despair at such everlasting quarrelsomeness, contented herself with a resigned
invocation to heaven. "Thief is what I said," Rosario resumed. "And everybody knows it. You
want everything I've got, and I can prove it. Here you steal my customers and down at the Cabañal
you steal ... well, you steal ... something else ... something else.... She's not fooling me,
I can tell you, even if she is pulling the wool over her husband's eyes ... dolt that he is,
fool of a Rector, who don't know his chin from his elbow." But Dolores was not moved from her
patronizing self-possession. She could see from the faces of the onlookers that every one was
wondering how she would take those allusions to herself and her good-natured husband; and she
was not going to let the Fishmarket have a day's fun at her expense. "Close your mouth, deary,
before you slip and fall into it! Don't be bitter! You can't have all the men there are. You're
envious!" "Me, envious!" Rosario retorted. "Envious of your reputation, I suppose,--the best
in the Cabañal, as even the lamp-post knows! Thanks! I'm a decent woman, I am, I never tried
to get another girl's husband!" "And whose husband could you get with that sculpin-face? No,
dearest, no one is jealous of you!" And Rosario, growing paler than ever, sunk her nails into
her clenched hands, while Dolores, her fists on her hips, wreathed her delicious countenance
in a smile, which seemed to serve for volumes of insults.

The joy of combat had taken possession of the whole portico. Idlers had gathered in throngs
at the doors. The fish-women were leaning far forward over their counters with the eager appetites
of furies, clacking their tongues as though they were sicking two dogs upon each other and
banging on their scales to applaud each cutting thrust. It was time for Dolores to fall back
on the ultima ratio of a fish-woman's contempt.

"Look, Rosario! Don't talk to me! Talk to this!"

And she turned squarely around and, bending slightly, registered a resonant slap on the pair
of spacious hips that trembled under her calico skirt with all the elasticity of her firm flesh.

This trovata had immense success with the audience. Women fell from their chairs in the contortions
of laughter. The tunny-men in the near section doubled up in the gripes of joy, while the hilarity
found its outer boundaries in the meat-market, stalls and stalls away. Staid gentlemen from
town set their baskets down to do full justice with their clapping hands to the beauty and
the wit of the inimitable Dolores.

But the triumph of the Rector's wife was of short duration. As she looked around to see the
effect her blow had had, a handful of sardines struck her full in the face. Rosario was blind
with fury. "Come out of that stall! Show your face out here where I can get at you, you low-lived
street-walker!" And Dolores did show her face. Rolling her sleeves up still higher, as though
clearing for action, she strode forth from her stall, her eyes aglow with the enthusiasm of
combat. Toward her Rosario came running, brushing aside the arms that tried to restrain her,
aquiver with rage from head to foot and shrieking curse on curse.

They met in the wet, slippery passageway between the two lines of counters. Head down, the
smaller woman rushed full tilt into her taller and sturdier antagonist. It was a shock of nerve
on muscle. Dolores was scarcely stirred, and the blows Rosario rained on her did not seem even
to ruffle her temper. Answering in kind, she began to deliver the most merciless slaps upon
the pale, bony cheeks of her assailant, which grew red under the punishment.

But suddenly Dolores shrieked in agony and raised both hands to one ear. "The dog! The dog!"
she cried.

Rosario's fingers had closed over one of those pearl earrings that had been the admiration
of the Fishmarket. She had torn it out. The pretty girl began to sob, pressing her torn ear
under both her hands, while blood streamed through her fingers. "Was that the way to fight
fairly?" she moaned. That showed the kind of woman she had to deal with. People had gone to
jail for life for less than that! Then, whipped to a violent rage by the pain she felt, she
started once more for her enemy. But the fish-women had gathered round her, petting and consoling
her, and they held her back. Tia Picores, meanwhile, was spitting oaths and insults into the
face of Rosario, who stood there pale, fainting, in fright and horror at what she had done.

Above the crowd outside the portico the top-knots of several policemen had appeared. The forces
of law and order were trying to elbow their way into the throng. Sh ... h ... h! Tia Picores
assumed command. "Back to your stalls, everybody! And mum's the word! Those pretty boys will
be in here with their summonses and their papers! Nothing's the matter, remember, everybody,
nothing happened at all!" Some one threw a big handkerchief over the bleeding ear of the wounded
girl. The women were all in their places looking straight ahead as solemnly as in church, and
calling off their prices with laughable mechanicalness. As the officers passed from counter
to counter the market was again in turmoil, but of a different kind. "What are those dudes
doing in here? Some people never know where they belong. What's the idea? Just butting in,
eh, lolly-pop!" And the police marched out as wise as they had entered, chased away by the
drawling voice of tia Picores--who could never understand how people allowed such a government
of thugs and grafters to exist among honest people--and marking time to the banging of metal
scales, which all began to clatter as a parting salutation.

The market returned to its usual routine. The vendors were busy with their custom. Rosario,
like a sphinx in dudgeon, stood upright and stiff behind her counter, indifferent to the passing
trade, spots on her cheeks and temples turning black-and-blue from the buffets they had received.
Dolores kept her back turned toward her enemy, but she was doing her best to stifle the cries
that her pain was almost tearing from her. Tia Picores seemed to be in a thoughtful mood, as
she talked aloud and in monologue to the fish lying about in front of her. And those spit-fires
would keep at it for the rest of their lives, eh! I kill you or you kill me! Fine! And all
over a man! Men! Men! As though there weren't enough hogs in the world to go round! But she
would put a stop to it, she would. Any more of their nonsense and she would thrash them, thrash
them both, by God! And perhaps they didn't think she could! Well, she would see!

Distractedly she seized the lunch that the char-woman brought at eleven o'clock--a roll of
black bread with two dripping chops--and she swallowed it in a few hurried mouthfuls. Then,
wiping her furrowed face with her dirty, greasy apron, she walked over to her niece's stall,
planted herself with arms folded in front of it, and began her lecture.

That business had got to stop, if you please! The family of tia Picores could not be the talk
of the Fishmarket all the time. It had got to stop! She had made up her mind, and when tia
Picores made up her mind to a thing, she got what she wanted, even if God himself got in the
way, even if she had to lick half of Spain to get it. Tia Picores had a bit of a temper herself
when she got really mad. What had just happened would be nothing, nothing, compared to the
fuss there'd be when she set out on the warpath. Those girls would have to make up!

"No, no!" Dolores groaned, clenching her fists and shaking her head decisively.

"No, no! No, no!" mimicked tia Picores. "What's the meaning of that? No, no! No, no! Like it
or lump it, but you make up, you make up! The idea, such a scandal in the family! And lucky
you are in the family, both of you. That gives you a chance to make up. She tore your ear?
Now, now, Dolores, think of those blows you gave her on the face. Tit for tat, with tit having
a little the best of it. There's a good girl now! No, no--no use arguing ... you just mind
your auntie!"

And thence the fish-woman passed to the table of Rosario, where her language was stronger still.
And Rosario called that being a lady? A mad dog, rather, a mad dog, yes--not to use the real
word! "Don't you look at me like that, you jackanape, or I'll give you this pair of scales
over your head, I will! That's what I get for being nice to you two brats. That's the way you
treat an old friend of your mother! Well, now, Your Highness, this nonsense is going to stop,
and stop here--just because I say so, I! Look at that poor Dolores over there, crying because
her ear hurts so. Is that the way decent people fight, pulling each other's ears off? Only
sneaks fight like that--sneaks, do you hear? When you fight, you fight straightforward and
honest. Strike as hard as you want, but where it won't do any harm. Man alive! In my time I've
pulled the hair of every wench in the market. You get their skirts up, and you take your shoe,
and there, where it's all soft and tender, whack, whack, whack, till they have to sit on one
side for a week. But after that ... a cup of chocolate in the café, and then ... better friends
than ever. Yes, sir, that's the way respectable people fight. And that's what you are going
to do, if I have to lick you every inch of the way. You won't, eh! Well, we'll see! Dolores
is stealing your man, eh! Ten thousand fleas on the good-for-nothing, anyhow! Excuse me, the
girls don't chase the men. It's the men that chase the girls. Listen to me, dearie. If you
want that man of yours to mind his business, you just keep things going at home right and proper.
Keep him busy! Keep him busy! Then he won't go browsing around where he don't belong. Diós!
such girls as are growing up nowadays. As much brains as so many geese. I'd like to see a man
of mine with enough to him to have anything to spare for other women! Anyhow ... this mess
is all over. You're going to make up ... because I say so, if not for a better reason.... Otherwise
tia Picores will take a hand...."

And with a mixture of threats and words of endearment the sturdy dean of the fish-women went
muttering back to her place, to sell the rest of her stock.

Work was over early that day. There was quite a demand for fish in town, and the counters were
emptying by noontime. The vendors began to sweep their leavings into kegs of cracked ice and
to cover them with damp cloths. The teamsters were collecting their baskets, large and small,
and piling them up in the tails of their rickety tartanas. Tia Picores was putting on her checked
shawl and chatting, in the middle of the portico, with a group of old women of her time who
went shares with her in paying for a wagon. She still had that matter of the two girls on her
mind; and as soon as everything was ready for the drive home she made for their stalls, and
pushed and pinched till she had brought the rivals together.

Dolores and Rosario, unable to resist the brow-beating of the terrible woman, stood with lowered
heads, as though deeply humiliated at what was going on, but not daring to say a word. "We're
going to stop a minute at the chocolate place," tia Picores directed to her teamster; and the
company of mottled shawls and dirty skirts went out of the Pescadería, the flagstones echoing
to the clatter of heavy shoes. In Indian file the women crossed the crowded market, where the
last bargainings were in progress, tia Picores opening her way through the throngs with her
vigorous elbows, behind her the bevy of wrinkly-faced, yellow-eyed veterans, then Rosario with
her load of baskets,--for she always went to and fro on foot--and finally Dolores, her ear
still smarting cruelly, but able, nevertheless, to raise a smile of pleasure when her pretty
brown face, no less winsome under the rude bandage around her head, attracted remarks of appreciation
from the men around.

They invaded and occupied the chocolate shop, where they were regular customers. Rosario set
her reeking, smelly baskets on one of the marble tables, and the odor of stale fish mingled
through the room with the fragrance of cheap cocoa that drifted out from the adjoining kitchen.
Tia Picores gave a grunt of satisfaction as she settled into a chair. Chocolate after the day's
work was her greatest comfort in life. How well she knew that little café, with its striped
matting on the floor, its white tiled walls, its frosted glass windows with red curtains; in
front of the doors, ice-cream freezers in cork casings with metal covers; the counter, then,
with its jars for cookies and sweets, and behind it the proprietor of the place sleepily brushing
at the flies with a bundle of long paper streamers fastened to a stick.

And what would they have? Same as usual, of course; a half-pint cup all around, and a glass
of lemon water apiece. This would make the fourth chocolate that tia Picores had downed that
fore-noon; but the stomachs of those tough daughters of the sea were poison proof, and they
could sip gallons of that imitation "Venezuela" with the gusto of sybarites. Nothing to beat
chocolate! Drink a lot of it if you wanted to last beyond your apportioned three-score and
ten! And eagerly the aged cronies sniffed at the bluish steam that was rising from the plain
white cups before dipping pieces of bread into the muddy paste and raising them, dripping brown,
to the toothless caverns of their mouths. The two girls sat there, however, barely touching
the good things in front of them, their chins on their breasts and avoiding each other's eyes.
But when tia Picores's cup was almost empty her thundering voice came out to change the situation.
"Did you ever see such a pair of sillies! Still mad, still mad! Well, well, the girls in the
Market these days are not what they used to be! Once their faces are out of joint, there's
no ironing them out again! Mad once, mad for always, eh! Couldn't be worse if they were tony
folks up town! No, there's something wrong with the hearts of girls nowadays. And if you don't
believe it just see here. Is there one of you at this table that at some time or other hasn't
had her hair pulled or her face slapped by me? No! Not a one. What's more, I'll bet that if
any one of you were to show the place you sit on, you'd find the scars of where I beat you
with a hob-nailed shoe. No? Well, there you are! And we've never been better friends, and we're
ready to stand by when any one of us gets into trouble. And that's the way for people to be.
Quick-tempered? Very well. But ready to make up afterwards, like honest Christians. Leave your
grumps at the door and have a cup of chocolate, say I. And that's what my old ma said, in her
day. And that's what the Fishmarket people always said. 'Don't swallow hard feelings! Throats
are made for chocolate, white bread and quinset,' as the old song runs:

    'Pesar, d'así no has de pasar.
    Chocolat, bollet, y got de quinset!'"

And although the glasses they had before them were not of "quinset," since the season for ices
had not yet come, all the old women, to show their approval of the philosophy expounded, drank
their lemon-water instead with gulps and gapes of satisfaction. Tia Picores, meanwhile, was
getting angry at the steadfast balkiness of the two rivals. "Well, now, speak up, numskulls!
Haven't you tongues in your heads? You're going to stick to it, I suppose. You think I am talking
just to hear myself talk. Well, you're wrong. See here, Rosario, what have you got to say?
You're the most to blame. Come now."

The poor little woman sat there with her head still lowered, playing in her embarrassment with
the ends of her shawl. She muttered something or other about her husband, and then said slowly:
"If she promises ... to keep him away!"

Dolores started like a shot.

"Keep him away! What do you take me for? A scarecrow, to keep people away from the house? That
fine husband of yours, I'll have you know, is my husband's brother. You expect me to shut the
door in his face and spit fire at him when he comes around? But, after all, what do I care?...
I don't want to be quarreling all the time, and be made the talk of half Spain. All those stories
about me and Tonet are lies of people who don't know how else to make trouble in a good family....
Tonet went with me before Pascualo and I were married. Well, was it wrong to marry his brother?
Bosh! Was I the first to do a thing like that? Well, why else should people talk? No ... all
I want is to be let alone, and not be plagued all the time. Keep Tonet away, no. I won't be
mean to him. However, if I have seemed to be too intimate, I'll be more careful in the future,
even though he's one of the family ... just so people will have no reason to say anything ...!"

Tia Picores beamed. "Now, that's the way to talk! Some heart in that girl after all, come now!
Well, Rosario! Are you satisfied at last? There's a good girl! One smack, and bygones are bygones!"

Reluctantly, the women actually pushing the two heads toward each other, the girls kissed,
but without rising from their chairs. Tia Picores, in the full flush of triumph, could not
work her tongue fast enough. "The idea of two women fighting over a man, as if there were only
one in the world! And that's just what the rascals want you to do, sillies. Every time you
quarrel over a man his stock goes up, and he thinks he's got so much more hold on you. No,
indeed, women have got to stand their ground, good and hard, the way I did. My husband? Why,
if he ever went on a rampage, I brought him to order mighty quick, I did; and the first thing
he knew he was for asking my pardon. Was there ever a man in the world worth getting jealous
over? Not much! Why worry then? Do you ever know where your man is when he is away from home?
Of course, you don't. Just take it for granted he is up to mischief, and then forget about
it. The less you fret about them, the better they like you. I led my man a song and dance,
I can tell you. 'What are you doing in my bed! No, sir, where you spent the summer you can
spend the winter!' And out he'd go, in a hurry. No 'dear this,' and 'dear that,' with my man!
And he followed me around like a dog. That's the way to keep them tamed!"

Dolores, reserved and on her dignity, kept biting her lip as though she were trying to repress
a laugh that was tickling at her palate. Rosario did not agree with tia Picores. No, she lived
with her husband like a good wife, and she had a right to expect him to do as well by her.
She didn't like quarreling and lying all the time. But the old woman did not let her talk.
"All nonsense! Nonsense! Good wife, good husband! Such rot makes me sick! You've got to take
men as God made them, haven't you, girls?" And the "girls" assented with approving nods of
their aged heads. "Count the men, and you'll get the number of dogs there are in the world!
Kick them, and they eat out of your hand! But if you want to keep your husband faithful to
you, it's very easy. Just tie him to the foot of your bed, with your petticoat, and never let
him out of the house.... So much for men!"

The teamster several times had looked in at the door. "What do you old hens think this wagon
is, your private coach?" "What's the matter with you, codfish? What are you paid for?" roared
the gentle tia Picores. But on seeing that her comrades were drawing out their "purses," she
extended her brown arm over the table majestically. "Put those bags back where they belong!
This is all mine, all mine! I'm celebrating to-day. We've put some sense into these girls'
heads!" And lifting her skirt and petticoat, she unhooked her own bag from a belt she wore
next to her skin. From it came a pair of scissors she used in opening fish with heavy scales;
then a knife that was rusty with grime; finally a handful of coppers which she threw down on
the table. She sat for some moments counting the sticky money over and over again. Then leaving
a pile of coins on the bare marble, she went out of the shop to join her companions, who were
already in the cart.

Rosario, carrying her empty baskets, was out on the sidewalk with Dolores. The two girls were
looking at each other and did not know what to say.

"Come along with us, Rosario," tia Picores suggested. "We'll be a bit crowded, but we can get
you home."

The girl refused, however. "Good-by, Rosario," said Dolores, smiling graciously. "You know,
we are friends now." And she climbed in after her aunt. The wagon creaked under these two solid
additions to its burden, but finally drove off with a music of squeaking joints and loose wheels.
Rosario stood looking after it as if she were awakening from a dream. Could it all be true?
Had she really made friends again with that hateful thing?

CHAPTER VI

THE SMUGGLERS

It was deep night; but the beacon on the Cabo de San Antonio, winking with a blinding glare
like the eye of a Cyclops, broke the foam curling under the Garbosa's bow into spangles of
colored radiance and sent a seething, restless, dancing pathway of fire out over the troubled
waters. The adventurers were sailing close in shore before a faint land breeze. To starboard
lowered the gigantic battlements of the Point, precipitous, weather-beaten, blackened by storm
and sea. Inland against the starlit sky the somber Mongó reared its lofty head.

It had taken a whole day to cross the Gulf of Valencia; but now beyond the Cape the fair road
to Algiers was opening, and the Garbosa would soon be out on the deep sea. Astern at the tiller,
his eye studying the black outline of the promontory and checking up his bearings on the murky
glass face of an old compass of tio Mariano's, sat the Rector, anxiously consulting Tonet,
the experienced hand on board, the only member of the crew who had been "across the way."

"Easy as could be. The Cape, and then Southeast, Southeast, without swerving. Set her right,
and she'll get there by herself, if this wind holds!"

The Rector gave a pull at the tiller with both hands. The Garbosa, groaning like an invalid
turning over in bed, swung around to the course. The gentle swell that had been roiling her
slightly from abeam she now caught full under the bow, and she began to pitch, setting the
foam aboil. The light now came from dead astern, dousing its white sweep in the rippling wake
of the vessel.

"And now for a bit of sleep!" Tonet stretched out on a coil of line at the foot of the mast
and pulled a piece of canvas over him. His brother would steer till midnight, when it would
be his turn till dawn.

The Rector was now the only one awake on board the Garbosa. The thrashing of the water forward
was not loud enough to drown the snores from the crew sleeping almost at his feet. For the
first time in his life, Pascualo was uneasy. He could draw a seine in a full gale. He had never
thought once of danger in the worst of weather. But now, in his loneliness, he was filled with
all manner of forebodings. How was this venture going to turn out? What a responsibility to
be in charge of one's own enterprise! Would the old hulk hold together if a storm struck her?
Supposing they were caught on the way back with a full load! And he sat on, listening to the
agonized moans that came from the Garbosa's joints, as she took the seas, or looking up at
the throats of the giant bellying canvas which, as it swayed to and fro, seemed to be scraping
the sky with the point of the mast.

But the night wore on uneventfully, and the dawn came, with a flock of red clouds, and as hot
as a mid-summer's morning. The sail now kept flapping like the wing of a great bird in lazy
flight. The wind was coming in barely perceptible gusts that tickled the surface of the burnished,
prostrate sea, as blue as a Venetian mirror. The mainland was completely down. Away off to
port some pink blotches, hardly distinguishable from the mist of sunrise, vaguely dimmed the
horizon line. "That's Ibiza off there!" Tonet called to his companions. Slowly the Garbosa
crept along over the tranquil, circular immensity, beyond whose rim black lines could occasionally
be seen--the smoke of distant steamers. A bare ripple under the vessel's bows marked her virtual
immobility. The sail hung lifeless from the mast, sweeping back over the deck at times as a
capricious zephyr headed the course. Looking down over the sides, the eye plunged deep into
the blue waters, where the sky, the clouds and the boat were mirrored in bottomless mystery.
Schools of fish darted by underneath, shining like bits of tin. Dolphins were playing about
on the surface close at hand, showing their absurd muzzles and their black sides sprinkled
with diamond dust. Flying fish, the butterflies of the sea, came up, flitted along for a distance,
and then sank again into the depths. Strange beings of fantastic shapes and indescribable colors,
some gayly striped like tigers, others in mournful black, some huge and chubby, others small
and wiry, some with cavernous mouths and tiny bellies, others with enormous bodies and ridiculous
little snouts, swarmed around the old boat, as though the Garbosa were one of those mythological
craft that used to lead processionals of marine divinities.

Tonet and the two sailors were taking advantage of the calm to fish with hand lines. The "cat"
was busy forward with the midday meal. The Rector was pacing the narrow deck astern, scanning
the horizon and swearing for wind. The Garbosa was eating her way slowly along, but to all
appearances she might have been nailed to the surface of that placid sea. Now, in the distance,
a schooner was visible, caught in the calm, her sails sagging, east-bound, for Malta or Suez,
probably. Great steamers occasionally slipped past along the horizon line, their funnels smoking,
their decks almost level with the water from the loads of Russian wheat they were carrying
from the Black Sea to the Straits.

And the sun rose high in the heavens. The waters shone with a dazzling glare as though boiling
from an infinite conflagration. The decks of the Garbosa grew hot, and her old timbers cracked
stridently as they shrank. Captain and crew ate dinner under the shade of the sail, scooping
with their spoons in the same spot, drinking deep draughts from the wine jug to cool their
parched throats, their shirts open in front, sweating in streams, panting from the lifeless
sultry calm, enviously watching the gulls that sailed by just above the water, as though afraid
of the stifling muggy air on high. After their meal, the men walked about on deck for a time,
lazily, and with heavy eyes, drunk with sunlight rather than with wine; then they went below,
one after the other, throwing themselves flat on boards that were wet with bilge-water, and
sagged under the slightest weight. So the afternoon, and another night went by.

At dawn the wind freshened, and the Garbosa, like an old war-horse touched with the spur, leapt
forward, careering and dancing over the ruffled waters. About noon clouds of smoke began to
rise along the horizon ahead, and gradually from the girdling sash of green sky, thick steel
masts with battletops, the towers of forts, it seemed, came into view, and under them, floating
castles painted white, spotted black with thousands of men, going this way and that through
their own smoke, now forming in squares, now stringing out along the whole horizon--a flock
of Leviathans, churning the water with invisible fins.

Algiers could not be far away! That was the French Mediterranean squadron, out for practice.
God, what big boats people were making nowadays! The smallest of those monsters, the white
cruiser, with all those flags and black balls, that kept going in and out among the other ships,
signaling and directing the evolutions, would only have to graze the Garbosa to reduce her
to kindling wood! And those black pipes sticking out of the turrets! One sneeze from those
snouts, and it would be all day with the Rector's outfit and part of to-morrow! The smugglers
studied the fleet with the uneasy respect a pickpocket has for a squad of policemen marching by.

About three o'clock, a dark irregularity, something like the arched back of a whale, rose on
the horizon ahead! Land! And Tonet, who remembered having seen it before, called it the Cabo
de la Mala Dona, the farthest outpost of the coast. Algiers was more to port! The breeze was
freshening every moment. The swelling lateen sail, as the boat heeled, described a saucy curve
on the tilted mast The prow went merrily up and down, throwing a lively spray from the chop.
The Garbosa, old horse, was smelling her oats, and bolting along the last lap to the stable,
though every bone in her strained!

They were heading East-Southeast now; and by evening-fall, on the flanks of the Mala Dona,
indistinct still in the haze to starboard, could nevertheless be seen the rolling tops of hills,
and white blotches that meant villages. Then, as the boat continued its rapid flight, these
faded from view, but the coast itself was up, ahead. The Garbosa hugged the shore. With night,
the saw-toothed crest of a ridge of mountains, climbed up against the sky; and the wind veered
to southward, blowing off the land, warm, and fragrant with the perfume of an enchanted country.
Low in the west hung the new moon, a real Oriental crescent, fine drawn with curving points--just
as you saw it embroidered on the standards of the Prophet, or shining from the weathervanes
of Mahometan minarets! That was what you called being in Africa! The beat of the surf was audible
from the Garbosa's decks, and even calls from Moors ashore there in the fields. Clusters of
lights could be made out along the coast--towns off there! Then, the sky above the end of the
mountain chain to the Eastward began to grow ruddy; the sea broke inland in a capricious curve;
and soon many, many lights began to glow. Algiers!

In three hours they were in the roadstead. Now there were lights, of varied grouping and intensity,
everywhere, hundreds of them, winding along in a serpentine course to mark a seashore boulevard.
The Garbosa, luffing slightly, shot round a promontory, and the city itself, in all the splendor
of a Levantine port, was before them. Cristo, never mind flor de mayo and alguilla! It was
worth the trip to see just that! And folks bragged about the harbor at the Grao! The humble
fishermen stood there mouths agape; with the exception of Tonet, of course, who had seen many
better things in his trip around the world! The water of the great bay was absolutely calm.
A red and green beacon marked the entrance to the basin. The city climbed a hill in the background,
the houses shining white even in the dark, from the millions of lights that suggested a festival.
What a waste of gas! Long snaky stripes of color came out over the surface of the water, flecked
here with the harbor lights of a merchant vessel, there with the distinguishing marks of a
man-o'-war. Off in this direction was the European city--the brightest section, the restaurants
and bazaars all lighted up, while the black ant-like forms of people, and the canvas-tops of
swiftly moving vehicles, could be seen on the streets. And what a strange mixture of sounds!
Music from the cafés, trumpet calls from the barracks, talking and shouting from the boulevards,
cries from boatmen on the water--the blended murmurings of a cosmopolitan city of trade, cheating
all day long for the money it wastes in pleasure after sundown.

The Rector could not indulge in the ecstasies of wonderment too long. His mind went back to
business. The men of the crew were gathering in the sail preparatory to lying to. Faithful
to tio Mariano's instructions, Pascualo took a piece of tarred cable, set fire to it, and began
to describe circles above his head, in series of threes, marked off by hiding the torch behind
a piece of canvas which the "cat" held up in front of it. The signal was repeated many many
times, the Rector meanwhile gazing steadily at the darkest part of the water-front. Tonet and
the others stood around watching the operations curiously. Finally a red lantern gleamed on
shore. The "market" had understood the message. They would soon be off with the cargo.

The Rector explained the fine points of all this signaling. It wasn't wise to take on a load
inside the basin. Tio Mariano knew, from experience, that detectives were always on the watch
there, ready to telegraph the name and description of any boat likely to be smuggling. These
spies got a percentage on the profits of the confiscation. It was better to load up outside,
and at night. By morning they would be off again, with absolutely no one the wiser. Then they
could make Valencia without any trouble at all. For, who the devil would ever guess, at home,
what they had on board? And the good-natured fisherman laughed at his own shrewdness, though,
inside, he rather admired the wily uncle who had given him all this good advice.

And the Rector waited, his eyes anxiously fixed on the water in the direction from which the
red light had shone. Tonet and the two sailors were sitting on the bow, their legs dangling
over the water. They were hungrily studying the brilliantly lighted town. Rosario's husband
had been stationed at Algiers once, and he had all sorts of stories to tell about his gay escapades
about the city. He could even point the places out from the lights in front of them. They could
actually hear the music from one of the cafés, where he had had such a time, such a time! The
"cat" opened his mouth from ear to ear, and his eyes gleamed excitedly. He could almost see
the wonderful dancing girl the great man was describing. That long straight avenue there, leading
from the pier--all arches, and a light under each one, so that it looked like the nave of a
church with candles--was the Boulevard de la République, where the really swell places were.
Only officers from the navy went there--absinthe, mostly--with rich Moors--you ought to see
the big turbans they wore--and Jew merchants, with silk tunics, dirty usually, but of fine
colors. The streets leading off it also had arches and pretty shops. Over there was the Plaza
del Caballo where the principal mosque was--a big white building--and a lot of those Moor lunatics
went there, all washed and barefoot, to pay respects to that fake of a Mahomet. You could even
see the little tower of the place from the boat. Well, at certain times of the day, a fellow
in a turban got up there and waved his arms and shouted like a crazy man. And madames, all
along, well dressed, and waddling in little steps like ducks, with a mersí for every compliment
you dropped them! And soldiers, with date-palm hats, and trousers big enough for a whole family
to get inside them; and lots of fine fellows from every country, who had gone there to get
away from the police! A drinking place every two doors, with tables out on the sidewalks, and
absinthe in big glassfuls!

Tonet had seen it all himself, and described everything with gestures or grimaces that vividly
pictured each episode and kept his companions laughing noisily. And up there was the Moorish
city. They remembered that alley just off the market at the Grao where you brushed the wall
on each side with your elbows? Well, that was a mile wide compared to the holes those Moors
crawled through, always uphill, the eaves coming almost together overhead, and a stream of
slop running down over the steps in the pavement. You needed to have plenty of liquor aboard
and your nostrils plugged before you walked in front of the shops up there, rotten filthy dens
where those dark-skinned devils squatted smoking in the doorways, muttering God knows what
in that lingo of theirs. But you could live like a king with those people, yes, sir, and for
very little, provided of course you didn't mind seeing people eat with their fingers after
rubbing them in the dirt! You got a whole meal for a couple of cents, a pair of red painted
eggs like you saw at home at Easter, and tea in cups the size of egg-shells,--and you could
go to sleep if you wanted to, on the couch of some Moorish café there, to the sound of a flute
and the banging of tambourines.

And then the women! Little Moor girls, their cheeks all painted up, their finger-nails stained
blue, and queer tattooing on their breasts and backs; and then black ones who worked as masseuses
in the baths; and the ladies, finally, with veils over their faces till all you could see was
their nose and one eye, stumbling along in big fluffy trousers, wearing gold-cloth vests under
their shawls, their arms like the show-window of a jewelry store, and all sorts of medals,
coins, and half-moons, on their bosoms. "And what eyes! You never saw anything like it, boys!
And the shapes they have. I remember once I ran into a big black one--rich, I guess--in a street
in the upper part of town. Well, you know how I am--I simply couldn't help it! I just gave
her a little pinch from behind. Well, sir, that woman squealed like a sick rat, and now from
this direction and now from that a lot of big ugly devils came running with clubs the size
of your arm. There was a fellow with me, and we took out our knives and held the gang off till
the zouaves came. They put us in the coop for a couple of days, and then the consul got us
out. You see," Tonet concluded, looking at his feet with an expression of weariness, "in those
days I was rather wild!" But his companions were much impressed with the superiority of a man
who had done all that. And they liked the story of the black girl best of all.

The Rector, who was still astern, gave a sudden cry. Some one from shore was coming aboard.
And in fact a red light could be seen drawing nearer, and a curious chugging was audible, as
if a dog were splashing his way toward the boat. It was the launch from the "market." A fine
looking young man with a blond mustache and wearing a blue coat climbed up on deck. In the
lingua franca of the African ports, a mixture of Italian, French, Greek and Catalan, he explained
just what the situation was. He had received the letter of mosiú Mariano of Valencia, and had
been expecting them the night before. He had understood their signal and brought the goods
right off; for, even if the French usually winked at such things, it was just as well not to
waste any time in getting through.

"All ready, boys," the Rector shouted to his men. "Load her on!"

The launch was piled high with bales, till barely a foot of smokestack was visible over the
top. But one by one the heavy bundles began to come aboard, sewed up in waterproof burlap and
exhaling a teasing fragrance. The two craft were lashed together so that the transfer was not
difficult. As the packages vanished through the hatches of the Garbosa, the old boat got lower
and lower in the water, groaning and creaking, meanwhile, like a long-suffering donkey complaining
of its load.

The blond Algerian kept looking the vessel over, and his astonishment grew apace. Were they
going to put to sea in a trap like that, loaded way down to the water line? The Rector replied
with several knocks on his own strong breast to evidence an assurance that he really did not
feel. Put it all on, put it all on! The way he figured, with the help of God and the Holy Christ
of the Grao, every last bale would be on the shore at the Cabañal within forty-eight hours.
The hold was soon full up. The remaining bundles were stowed on the old creaking deck, lashed
down and propped with planks so as not to wash overboard. "Well, good luck, captain!" said
the young man from the launch, and he shook the Rector's hand warmly.

The vessels were pushed apart, and the launch ran off. The Garbosa spread her sail again, and
catching the wind, came around. The lights of Algiers began now to come from the left, and
soon they were fading visibly in the distance. Once under way again, the Rector felt a gripe
at his heart. Heaven help them, and not send a storm! Fine weather now! But still it was a
miracle the old sieve got along at all. Amidships the deck was almost level with the water,
and the boat seemed down by the head, and did not take the sea well. Though there was scarcely
any chop, the waves came over, forward, as though a storm were running. Tonet, however, with
nothing in particular to lose on the venture, made fun of the old-tub--a torpedo-boat he called
her, she sat so low in the water!

At dawn the Mala Dona was just visible, as an indistinct silhouette, over the stern, and an
hour later they were fairly to sea. Out on the Mediterranean once more, the Rector could hardly
believe the cargo he had taken aboard so rapidly during the night could be real. But there
the bales were! You could see them! The men, quite played out from the hard work of loading,
were sleeping on them. Besides the old Garbosa was crawling along like a mud-turtle from such
a burden! But Pascualo liked the look of the weather. A smooth sea and a good breeze! If things
held like that, the ramshackle old girl might last to Valencia--but no farther. It wasn't exactly
fear. The Rector realized now the imprudence of starting an important venture in a rig like
that. His poor old father had made fun of the sea, as he had; but that had not prevented him
from being tossed out on the beach one day like a chunk of rotting garbage! But all that day
and the following night the breeze continued fair and the sea calm.

But the morning dawned with a sky that was overcast, and the wind came hard in streaks and
squalls that were gradually piling up a sea. The Cabo de San Antonio had just come into view,
with the mists curling round it. Behind, the peak of the Mongó alone was visible, for the base
of the mountain was cloaked in cloud. The Garbosa was running with an alarming list to starboard,
its bulging sail almost dipping into the water, as the vessel raced along. The frown of the
weather was not at all to the liking of the captain, who, if he wanted to get his load ashore,
would not be able to run in till nightfall anyhow.

Suddenly the Rector jumped to his feet and let the tiller go. Futro! There was no doubt about
it. A sail had heaved in view out of the mists around the Cape. He knew that craft well. It
was the cutter from Valencia on watch off the point. Some one had squealed at the Cabañal!
The real object of the Garbosa had been not fishing, but something else! Tonet had also recognized
the boat, and he looked at his brother anxiously.

There was still time! Out to sea with her! The Garbosa swung round a little, heading Northeast,
away from the Cape. The maneuver was all in her favor, as she now got the wind fairly over
the stern quarter, and was eating into the sea like anything, taking every wave aboard over
the bow. The cutter was surely after them, for she too came about and followed. A better and
a lighter boat with more speed in her! But the Rector saw that the distance between them was
considerable. He had a good start. He would run, run, run, damn it, clear to Marseilles if
necessary--provided, that is, the old band-box didn't sink, cargo, crew, and all.

At noon the Garbosa had held her own. By that time they must surely have been as far up as
Valencia. Suddenly the cutter changed her course, and turned shoreward, abandoning the chase.
The sly devils! The Rector understood what they were up to. The weather had an ugly look. The
cutter preferred to loaf along the coast, sure that sooner or later the Garbosa would try to
get back home and land her booty.

"We'll go them one better," the Rector exclaimed, drawing a deep breath of relief. "We've got
to find a place to crawl into, boys! We can't stay another night at sea in a mess of a boat
like this. Off for the Columbretas! There's always a place there for an honest free-trader!"

At nine o'clock that night, taking her course from a lighthouse, and groaning and cracking
as she bucked into a nasty sea, the Garbosa shot into the Big Columbreta, an extinct volcanic
crater, caved in, on one side, leaving a half-circle of steep, wave-eaten cliffs, within which
the water is calm, unless the storm happens to be coming from the East. This island, uninhabited
save by the keepers of the lighthouse, has not a trace of beach. The abrupt, precipitous walls
of lava are too bare to feed a tree, so hot is the sun in summer, so heavy is the air with
salt. At their base are piles of pebbles that the storm-surf has rolled on high, with a mixture
of flotsam and jetsam and dead fish. Scattered around the larger islet lie the Little Columbretas,--the
Foradada, piercing the surface of the water like the arch of a submarine temple, and a cluster
of barren rocks, bald, sheer-faced, unapproachable, like the fingers of some prehistoric colossus
buried there in the depths.

The Garbosa came to anchor in the pool. No one seemed to notice her presence. The lighthouse
people were accustomed to these visits of mysterious craft, which, for that matter, came to
this solitary archipelago just because they did not want to be noticed. The sailors could see
the lights in the buildings on shore and hear voices even, but they paid no more attention
to them than to the gulls that darted rapidly by overhead on the blasts of the gale, wailing
like infants in agony. Outside, and on the windward shore of the island, the sea was snarling
angrily. As the waves rolled by the promontory they sent great smooth undulations back into
the calm of the bay.

As soon as it was light, Pascualo went ashore, and up over a winding trail he found, he climbed
the cliffs, to study the looks of things between the islet and the mainland, which still lay
invisible in the storm. Not a sail in sight! But that did not reassure the Rector. The Columbretas
were notorious as a refuge for smugglers in bad weather. He was sure his pursuers would follow
him there. At the same time he was afraid to put to sea again in that leaky boat. Not afraid
to die, but how about that load of tobacco, and the money he had put into it! Yes, but stay
there, and have the government get it? Not much! To sea, then, even if the whole thing went
to the bottom for the sharks to smoke! No coast guard was ever going to brag about getting
rich on him!

After the meal at noon time, the Garbosa spread her sail, and left the sheltered anchorage
as mysteriously as she had come. She said not even good-by to the lighthouse people who came
out on the platform in front of the beacon to see her off. Diós, what a wind! First a slap
here and then a slap there! The Garbosa almost stood on her stern end as she was lifted by
the first wave, outside; but she staggered free and shoved her nose into the green of the trough
that followed, as though she were headed for the depths through one of those gigantic eddies
that blinked like treacherous eyes of the abyss. Then, crash! The next comber came full aboard,
the water churning into a white roar or atomized in spray, and sweeping aft in cascades over
the bales of tobacco, while the crew, soaked to the skin, held on for dear life. Tonet grew
pale, and clenched his teeth. He didn't mind bad weather in the right boat; but it was fool
business leaving shelter in that God-forsaken punt. But the Rector, pot-bellied numskull that
he was, would not listen to reason! The driveling idiot seemed to grow fat on getting people
into trouble! And in fact, Pascualo's moon-face was glowing in the excitement of this battle
with the sea. At every buffet of the waves he smiled, a purple flush suffusing his features,
as though he were rising from a holiday meal. His arms seemed part and parcel of the heavy
tiller, and his legs might just as well have been nailed to the deck. As the old Garbosa leapt
and lunged, shrieking in every seam from stem to stern as though in panic-stricken agony, the
Rector's spherical corpulence scarcely moved at all.

"What's the matter with you fellows?" And he would laugh with the loud bellow with which he
applauded funny stories ashore--as soon as he saw the point in them. "Scared? Diós, why don't
you wait till we get a breeze? Hardly enough air out this afternoon to catch your breath! Here
she comes, here she comes! Brrrmm! Never touched the old girl! If that fellow had gotten us,
good-night and good-morning! Anyhow, in the other world every day is Sunday, the parson says!
Die young, and the lobsters eat you; die old, and it's the worms! What's the difference! Me
for a short life and a gay one! And if need be, we can swim for it. Hey there, here she comes!
Brrrrum! Tra, la, la! Missed again!..."

And the Rector talked on, expounding the sailor's philosophy of life he had learned offshore
under tio Borrasca. But no one listened, except the "cat," who was on his first voyage, and
stood clinging, palish-green with fright, to the mast, but with eyes and ears, nevertheless,
for everything.

Night fell. The Garbosa was hanging on under a close-reefed sail, driving head foremost into
the pitchy dark. The lanterns had not been lighted, for the risk of being seen was worse, almost,
than the danger of a collision. About nine o'clock, the Rector gave a frantic pull at the rudder.
A light had appeared in the mist, close by off the port bow. It was a boat beating down in
the opposite direction. Pascualo could not make out the lines of the craft as she sped past;
but he knew it was the cutter, which had tired of loafing off the Cabañal, and was boldly running
for the Columbretas to catch the smugglers in their refuge before the storm cleared. For the
first time since leaving the pool that afternoon, the Rector let go the tiller for a second.
"This, for a pleasant night!" laughed he, making a coarse but expressive gesture of contempt
towards his vanishing enemy.

At one o'clock another light came up ahead. Rosario! Rosario! That's the beacon on the Church!
Square off the Cabañal! And just the time to make a landing! But would the folks at home be
on hand?

The Rector headed inshore, but then his astonishing good humor gave way to a thoughtful mood.
He knew what that coast was like. If he tried to lie to in that blow, it would be all over
in two hours. They would smash up, either on the Breakwater or on the bars in front of Nazaret.
To run offshore was out of the question. The Garbosa was getting loggier and loggier every
moment. The water was already way up in the hold. She would break to pieces in the sea before
morning. There was no other way out of it. Ashore she must go, and trust to luck! Driving as
much before the breakers as before the gale, the vessel held straight on toward the beach still
shrouded in gloom. Suddenly another light! And it flashed three times, and went out. Then,
three times again! Tonet joined the Rector in a cry of joy. Tio Mariano was on watch ashore.
It was the signal agreed upon. He had scratched three matches under cover of a shawl, which
kept the light from being seen except from the sea.

It looked like madness, but the Rector had the reef cut out of the sail. The Garbosa spurted
like a race-horse, showing her keel, as she lunged through the waves, now forward and now astern.
The boom of the surf ahead could now be heard above the howl of the gale. Finally, from the
top of a comber, the beach came into view, the black profiles of the houses standing out against
the sky. Then a sharp, snapping, crunching crash! The boat stopped short, grinding and groaning
as though her timbers were being torn asunder. The wind caught the sail and the mast went overboard.
A huge breaker burst over the stern, washing the men off their feet, and loosening the bales
from their fastenings. The Garbosa had struck bottom, but only a few yards from dry land. Out
through the surf a swarm of dark figures streamed, splashing into the water and rushing at
the boat. Men climbed up on board, and without saying a word to the Rector and his crew, who
stood there still speechless from the shock, they began to pick up the bundles and pass them
on from hand to hand.

"Tio, tio!" the Rector called, finally recovering his wits, and leaping into the water, which
hardly passed his belt.

"Here I am," came the answer from the dark. "But shut up, for God's sake, and get to work!"

And it was a strange weird spectacle, indeed. Darkness, everywhere, and a sea bellowing in
the gloom, the reeds and shore-grass bent low under the gale, the breakers tumbling in as though
bent on swallowing up the land, while a legion of dark-skinned men, with their clothes off,
tugged at great bales in the hold of the vessel that was rapidly going to pieces, or fished
them out from the foaming waters and dragged them up on the beach, where they disappeared mysteriously,
while, in the intervals between gusts of wind, the sound of creaking wagon wheels could be heard.

Tio Mariano was walking about from one point to another in his long-legged boots, calling off
sharp, imperious orders, and flourishing a revolver in his hand. There was no danger from the
revenue men. The guards had all been "greased," and were watching to give the alarm if their
chief arrived. The gun was for those silent workmen handling the bales, a light-fingered crew,
faithful disciples of the doctrine that to steal from a thief is a virtue. But none of them
would sneak anything away in the confusion! By God, the first man who tried any tricks would
get something!

By the time the Rector had recovered his composure after that nerve-racking day and that terrible
landing through the surf, and after he had stopped nursing the bruises received from a fall
as the vessel struck, the last wagon was driving off; and the long-shoremen had vanished silently
in all directions, as though the beach had eaten them alive. Not a bundle had been lost. Even
those caught in the hold of the Garbosa had been pried loose from the crushed timbers, now
sunk deep in the sand. Tonet and the two sailors had salvaged the sail, and the few things
of value left aboard, and were carrying their load off up the beach. The "cat," meanwhile,
who had been washed overboard by the great wave that first swept the boat, had been revived.

"Oh, tio!" the Rector exclaimed, when at last he was alone with his uncle. "I can say that
now, can't I! It was a tough job, but we pulled it off, didn't we? The Christ of the Grao stood
by us fine! We'll figure up accounts by and by, eh? Now I'm going home to Dolores. And won't
she be glad to see me!"

And the pair walked off toward the distant village with scarcely a glance at the poor vessel.
The old Garbosa lay there grinding up and down, her nose in the sand, taking each breaker full
over the stern, at each crash losing some shred of her entrails out into the night. And thus
she died, like a worn-out horse, that labors on in the noblest of emprises without glory and
without reward, and finally leaves its bones on the wayside to be picked white by buzzard and crow.

CHAPTER VII

THE NAMING OF THE BOAT

Some days later, tio Mariano handed Pascualo the tidy sum of twelve thousand reales, the captain's
share in the proceeds of the venture. But money was the least of the Rector's earnings. He
had established himself now solidly in his uncle's grace, for the old man, with very slight
risk to his own hide, had cleaned up twice that amount. Besides, the moment the whole story
had gone the rounds, Pascualo became the lion of the Valencian water-front. A stroke of genius,
that break from the Columbretas in a full gale! The cutter put in there at the height of the
storm--and that was no child's play either--but she had her trouble for her pains!

The Rector stood quite aghast at his own good fortune. Adding the profits on the "moonshine"
to the pile of money that, dollar by dollar, he and Dolores had stowed away in the place they
only knew, you got a figure with which any honest man could start "something." And this "something"
must of course have to do with the sea; for Pascualo was not the man to sit around in an easy
chair, like his uncle, and skin poor people on shore alive! Smuggling, meanwhile, as a regular
thing, was out of the question. That's a thing a young fellow ought to do once, to get his
hand in; just as he ought to gamble--for once--since fortune is likely to favor the beginner.
But it doesn't pay to flout the devil, in the long run. For a man like the Rector, fishing
was the only certain trade, but in his own boat, with nothing lost to outfitters, who sit quietly
at home and skim the cream of every catch.

There were many sleepless nights for the sturdy sailor, who kept rolling over and over between
the sheets and waking Dolores up to get her opinion on each new idea. At last he made up his
mind. His capital must go into a boat, not an ordinary boat, you understand, but the very best,
if that were possible, of all the craft that ever set sail from the beach in front of the ox-barn
there. His day had come at last, rediel! No more deck-hand business for him, and no more of
this going halves. He would own a vessel, and the pole he would plant in front of the house,
to carry the nets when drying, would be the tallest in the neighborhood!

And that hull on the ways there, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to the Rector from the Cabañal!
His wife, Dolores the beautiful, Dolores the charming, will still have a stall in the Fishmarket,
for all her wealth; but she will be selling her own fish soon, her own, I'll have you know.
And as the women on their way to the Pescadería now walked along the Gas House drain past the
boat yard, with envious eyes they noticed the Rector always hanging around there chewing the
end of a cigar, and supervising the carpenters as they sawed and hammered and planed away at
the long yellow pitchy brand-new timbers, some of them straight, and strong, and thick, others
of them light and curving--the keel, the ribs, the sheathing, of the projected boat! Now, not
too fast, boys, not too fast! The Rector is taking his time at this job as at everything else.
Go slow and then you'll be sure. No mistakes allowed! There's no hurry! The main thing is to
see that this boat is the very best along the shore!

While Pascualo was putting body and soul into his new enterprise, Tonet, with his share in
the booty--the Rector had done his best to make it as large as could be--was enjoying one of
his seasons of prosperity. In the tumble-down shack where he lived with Rosario to the tune
of quarrels, swear-words and cudgelings, not the slightest trace of abundance entered after
the lucky trip "across the way." The poor woman was as usual up at sunrise to carry her baskets
of fish to Valencia or even to Torrente or Betera, at times--always on foot--to save the price
of a wagon. And when the weather was not right for fishing, she spent her days in her hovel,
in company with her poverty and her despair. But Tonet, her Tonet, was handsomer than ever,
in a new suit of clothes, with money in his pockets all the time, and a regular seat in the
café, except when he was away, with some of the boys, at Valencia, going the rounds of the
gambling joints, or spending gay nights in the Fishmarket section. Nevertheless, whenever he
saw his uncle, and not to allow any of his claims on that worthy gentleman's pull to lapse,
he would bring up the subject of the job on the harbor survey; for, chasing that position was
his one serious occupation in times when he was out of money.

The fleeting prosperity that the African venture brought took him back to the joyous days of
his marriage. With that happy virtue he had of taking no thought for the morrow, and with all
that cynical gayety which endeared him so to women, he was not worried about what would happen
when the wind-fall his brother had brought him should be exhausted. For that matter, his companions
in roistering sometimes paid, and he had an occasional run of luck at cards. He would come
home late at night to go to bed, scowling and cursing between his teeth. But woe to Rosario
if she ventured any protest. For periods of two or three days, at times, he would not be seen
there at all. Not so, however, in his brother's house. There he went frequently, loafing about
the kitchen with Dolores, if the Rector was not at home, listening with bowed head and resigned
humility, to the lectures she gave him on his scandalous conduct. When Pascualo happened in
on one of these dressing-downs, he always seconded loyally the sound preaching of his wife.
Yes, sir, Dolores was cross like that, because she was really fond of him! As a respectable
woman, she couldn't afford to have a brother-in-law tearing around all the time and being the
talk of the town. And the fat good-natured sailor's eyes would fill with tears, ira de diós,
at what his Dolores was saying, a real woman, by God, as kind as a mother to that fool of a boy!

As his funds got lower, Tonet's attendance on his brother's household was still more assiduous.
He was turning the motherly advice he got there to good account. And to avoid any chance of
gossip, he showed himself day after day with the Rector up at the boat-yard, watching the progress
of the big frame which was now receiving its planking and was gradually taking shape under
the persistent efforts of hammer, ax and saw.

And summer was coming on. The stretch of seashore between the Gas House drain and the harbor,
so solitary and deserted at other seasons of the year, was busily returning to life. The heat
was beginning to drive the whole city to the water's side, where a veritable town of movable
houses, like the temporary encampment of an army, was growing up. In a measured line along
the sands ran the shacks of the vacationers, cheap structures with walls of painted canvas
and roofs of cane, front doors labeled with fantastic names, and, to distinguish one camp from
so many others like it, flag-staffs on the gables with banners of all colors, and above the
flags, queer weathervanes--boats, dragons, dolls, gew-gaws of every shape and form. In a second
line, farther from the shore, and speculating on the appetite that salt air awakens in dyspeptics,
came the more pretentious and the more permanent structures of the restaurants and eating-places,
with stairways and verandas, façades of ornate but inexpensive stucco, masking the frailty
of such pomp under ostentatious names: The Paris Hotel and Restaurant, The Miramar, The Fonda
del Buen Gusto; and between these pedants of summer-time gastronomy, the lunch-rooms of the
natives, huts with roofs of matting, rickety tables with wine jugs in the center, and outdoor
kitchens, dispensing shell-fish with vinegar dressing from Saint John's day till mid-September,
under signs of delightfully capricious spelling: Salvaor and Neleta, wines, bears and likers.

Along the roads through this mushroom city, that vanished like a fog with the first gales of
autumn, street and steam cars dashed full speed, whistling to scare you before they crushed
you flat; or tartanas creaked along, their red curtains flapping like banners of pure joy;
or crowds of people pressed their way, with the murmur of many, many voices. It was the humming
of a bee-hive, varied with the calling of vendors, the thrumming of guitars, the nasal screaming
of accordions, the clack-clack of castañets, the wailing of hand organs, all the kinds of noise
that men with smoothed hair and soft white shirts can dance to, after internal baths with anything
but water and preparatory to the return to town for a slashing or boxing fray with the first
innocent policeman they come across.

The people of the sea, beyond the drain, watched the gathering of this annual invasion with
interested eyes, but without taking part in all its jollity. Let them enjoy themselves--if
they were willing to pay for it! All that merry-making was the source of the Cabañal's pin-money,
for the other seasons of the year.

On the first of August the Rector's boat was, you might say, done. And what a beauty she was,
come now, tell the truth and don't be envious! The proud owner spoke of his creation much as
a grand-daddy sizes up a new baby in his son's family. "The timber? Well, did you ever see
solider beams than hers! And look at the finish on that mast! Not a cross grain to it from
deck to point! A bit thick amidships! But I wanted her like that--handles rough water better.
But just take a peep at that bow of hers! Sharp enough to cut paper with! Black along the scuppers,
but with a shine like the patent leather shoe of a Grandee of Spain; and the body of her, white,
but smooth as an eel, and just as fast, by God, in the water!" The rigging, the fishing gear
and other trappings, were not yet aboard. But the best tackle makers along shore were at work
on them, and by the fifteenth, the whole trousseau would be ready, and, pretty as a bride on
the way to church, would she take the water! All this and more, the Rector was saying one evening
to the circle of neighbors who, as usual, were sitting around his door.

He had invited his mother and his sister Roseta to supper that night. Dolores was at his side.
Some distance away, with his rope-seated chair tilted back against an olive tree, and looking
up at the moon through the branches in the dreamy pose of a chromo troubadour, sat Tonet, picking
at the strings of a mandolin. On the walk in front some fish were frying on a little earthen
stove. A number of children, Pascualet among them, were chasing a dog about in the mud of the
gutters. Groups were sitting in front of the other houses along the road, to get full benefit
of the faint breeze that was blowing off the sea. Redeu! How people must have been stewing
in Valencia that night!

Siñá Tona was getting very old. She had "taken her jump," as she put it. From comely buxomness
she had passed abruptly into old age, and the raw bluish light of the moon made evident that
the hair on her head had thinned, leaving a scant network of taut gray locks over her sunburned
scalp. The wrinkles now sank deep into her emaciated face while her cheeks hung loose and baggy,
and her black eyes, once the talk of the whole shore, peered sad and faded from the folds of
skin that drooped about them. Old long before her time, and from heartbreak, mostly, the spite
and the worry that men had given her! And this she said with a nod in Tonet's direction, but
with her thoughts, almost certainly, on the guardsman who had long before betrayed her. Besides,
times had been getting harder and harder! What the tavern now brought in was nothing, practically.
Roseta had had to go to work in the tobacco factory in town; and every morning, with her lunch-box
on her arm, she went off along the highway to Valencia, joining the bands of pretty, bold-faced
girls who marched with tapping heels and swishing skirts to sneeze all day in the snuff-laden
air of the Old Customs House. And what a girl Roseta had grown to be! Roseta was just the name
for her! When her mother, sometimes, looked at her out of the corners of her eyes, she seemed
to see in her all the florid exuberance of the handsome siñor Martines.

Even now, while complaining that her daughter would have to take the long walk on winter mornings,
she could not help feasting her eyes on that head of tangled golden hair out there under the
olive tree, those dreamy sea-green eyes, that white skin that neither sun nor wind could darken,
flecked now by the shadows of the branches which the moon outlined in arabesques of light and
shade on the girl's face. Roseta, with her air of a maiden who knows all there is to know,
kept looking from Dolores to Tonet and from Tonet to Dolores. At the fulsome praises that Pascualo
kept showering upon his brother--for drifting away from the waster's life he had been leading
to spend more and more of his time in that house where he found a peaceful, homelike kindliness
he had never known in his own--the young half-sister smiled sarcastically. Oh, these men, these
men! Just as she and mama had always said! Either scamps like Tonet, or puddingheads, like
the Rector. Men! She would have none of them! And the Cabañal could never make out why she
refused every boy who proposed to her! She would never have one of the wretched animals kicking
around between her feet. She had taken well to heart all the curses she had heard her mother
heap on men in her bitterest moments of despair down there in the loneliness and gloom of the
tavern-boat.

No one had spoken for some time. The fish continued sizzling in the frying-pan. Tonet was still
picking disconnected chords from his mandolin. The band of youngsters playing in the street
were staring up at the moon as though they had never seen it before, singing in cadenced monotone
with silvery little voices:

    La lluna, la pruna
    Vestida de dol ...

"Eh, will you brats shut up!" Tonet protested, claiming that he had a headache. "You come and
make us!" came the answering challenge:

    Sa mare la crida;
    Son pare no vol ...

And the dog joined in this children's hymn of adoration to Diana's glory, with barks that filled
the neighborhood with chills.

The Rector could think of nothing but the boat. Everything had been fixed for the fifteenth,
even the matter of the curate, who would go and give her a dash of holy water in the middle
of the afternoon. Everything, except one thing, futro! And that had occurred to him that very
moment! Of course! She never had been named ...! Well, what shall we call her? This unexpected
and exciting problem set the whole group a-talking. Even Tonet laid his mandolin down on the
ground and seemed to be meditating deeply. He, at any rate, came out with the first suggestion:
"Spit-Fire"! Now, what do you say to that!

The Rector's corpulent agreeableness saw nothing wrong with that name. Spit-Fire! What pride
it would be for him to command a boat that, faithful to such a christening, would go saucily
crashing through the storms with the untamed arrogance of a Portuguese! It was the women who
objected. Spit-Fire! Nonsense! Who ever heard of a fish-boat spitting fire! That would make
her the joke of all the Cabañal. No, siñá Tona had the right idea--"Fleet-Foot," the name of
old Pascualo's boat, the one he had died in, and that, later on, had been the home of all the
family. But now it was the men's turn to shout something down. No, that would bring bad luck,
as the fate of Fleet-Foot herself had shown. Dolores had a good one. Why not "Rose of the Sea"
... a pretty name ... as pretty as she was, and in fine taste.... But the Rector observed that
that name was on a boat already.... Too bad, too.... It was a beauty! Roseta, who had pouted
in disdain at every suggestion thus far, finally came out with her own proposal. She had thought
of it at home, the evening before, on looking at a picture that came in a package of tobacco
from Gibraltar. She thought the name looked so pretty! It was printed in colors around the
trademark on the box--a girl in dancing costume, with roses red as tomatoes on the little white
skirt and a bunch of flowers in her hand, as bright and stiff as radishes! Flor de mayo! The
boat should be called "Mayflower!"

Recristo! The Rector rubbed his hands in glee. Of course, just the thing, just the thing! Think
a moment! "Flor de mayo"--the famous brand of Gibraltar! Well, the boat was built of tobacco,
you might say. Most of the money in her had come from smuggling those very rolls that showed
the gay dancer in the bright colors! Roseta was right! Flor de mayo! Flor de mayo!

The name pleased everybody, awakening in those sluggish imaginations a thrill of poetry and
romance. They found something mysterious and attractive in the name, without suspecting the
charm attached to it by that historic boat which carried the Puritans to the new world and
marked the birth of the great republic of the West!... The Rector could not contain his joy.
Roseta had the brains for you! Let's have dinner on that, ladies and gentlemen! And we'll have
a real toast afterward ... to Flor de mayo!

The frying-pan was lifted from the stove and carried into the house, and the whole family rose
to follow--significant happenings that did not escape the watchful eyes of little Pascualet.
He deserted his orphéon of tiny choristers. The monotone of la lluna la pruna came to an end,
and peace settled over the moon-lit country-side.

It was not long before the whole Cabañal, with that gift for rapid perception of important
things that little places have, was aware that the Rector's new boat was to be christened Flor
de mayo. And when, the evening before the blessing of the vessel, she was dragged down to the
water's edge in front of the casa del bòus, the beautiful mysterious name could be read on
the inside of her stern sheets, painted in letters of fetching blue.

The next afternoon, the cabin section of the Cabañal was in festive mood. Occasions like that
were few indeed! Standing god-father in the baptismal rites was "Señor Mariano el Callao,"
no less a stingy old fat-purse, granted, but with enough heart in him to shell out a penny
or two for a nephew like that on a day like that. Sweets a-plenty were to be passed around
on the shore, with barrels of drinks. Barrels! Besides, that Rector boy knew how to do things
well. He took the crew he had engaged for the first trip and went off to the church to escort
don Santiago, the curate, to the beach. The priest welcomed him with one of those smiles he
kept for his very best parishioners only. "What! Ready so soon? Well, son, won't you just run
around and tell the sacristan to get the water and the hyssop ready! I'll just get into my
cassock, and be with you in a jiffy...." "Not quite so fast, don Santiago!" observed the Rector.
"Not quite so fast! You ought to see this is not an occasion for any cassock business, or stuff
like that. Your cope, father, your cope, and the best you've got, see? You don't launch a boat
like this every other day. Never mind about the money! I'll pay what's right!" The good priest
smiled. "Very well ... the cope isn't just the thing, but cope it is, if you say so.... We're
ready to accommodate good members of our flock, who know how to appreciate favors."

And they started back from the rectory, the sacristan in front with the hyssop and the holy
vessel; then the curate surrounded by his guard of honor, the captain and his men. In one hand
don Santiago was carrying his book of prayers, in the other the train of his old but sumptuous
cope, to keep it out of the mud. The handsome robe was of a white somewhat yellowed with age;
and the heavy gold borders had tarnished green, while the padding over the lining peeped through
in places where the outer cloth had been worn thin.

Children came up in droves to press their sniffling noses on the good priest's hand, which
at every step, almost, had to let the train fall into the muck. Women greeted smilingly from
the sidewalks. The dear old pae capellá! What a good-natured soul--never too harsh on penances,
but able to see through you, just the same, if you tried to fool him. Don Santiago had the
secret of adapting himself to the weaknesses of his flock. Many a time he would stop in the
street to extend his blessings over the fish baskets of some woman of the market, or touch
his fingers miraculously to a pair of short scales to charm it against any danger lest the
inspectors of Valencia detect its fraudulent weights!

When the procession reached the shore, the bells began to ring, mingling their garrulous ding-dong
in the gentle crunching of the surf. Late comers could be seen running along the sands to arrive
in time for everything. There, on a stretch of beach that was quite free of boats, the Mayflower
rose from the middle of a swarming crowd, her bright varnished sides gleaming white in the
sunlight, her rakish mast, gracefully tilted forward, standing out against the blue, its peak
adorned with the baptismal insignia of a new boat, sheaves of grass and bunches of cloth flowers,
that would hang up there till the storm winds finally wrenched them loose.

The Rector and his party elbowed their way through the crowd pressing around the boat. At the
stern were the two sponsors--siñá Tona, godmother, in a new shawl and skirt; and "Señor" Mariano,
god-father, in his tall hat and with his cane, in the very get-up that he wore at his talks
with the Governor in town! The whole family offered a spectacle of gay and showy magnificence.
Dolores had her pink dress on, and a new kerchief of flaming colors; while her fingers gleamed
with every ring she owned. Tonet was strutting about on deck in his new suit, his shining silk
cap pulled down over one ear, twirling his mustache in immense satisfaction that his conspicuous
position enabled so many pretty girls to sate their eyes on him. On the ground, with Roseta,
was his Rosario in the least shabby of her gowns, and sure not to make trouble with Dolores
on such a solemn day. The Rector, for his part, had turned Englishman over night. He was sporting
a blue woolsey suit that a friend of his, an engineer on a steamer, had brought on from Glasgow.
On his vest shone a watch chain as big as one of the stays on his boat--and that was the real
surprise he had saved for the celebration. He was sweating like a stoker in that garment that
might have done very well in winter. He had taken upon himself the task of keeping order, shoving
people back when they edged up too close to the priest and the baptismal party. "The idea,
gentlemen.... That talking, there! Sh-h-h. This ceremony is not a thing to laugh about. The
fun, later on ...!" And he set a good example by taking off his cap and putting on a long face,
as the chaplain, sweating just as much under that stifling cope, was fumbling through his book
to find the prayer beginning Propitiare Domini supplicationibus nostris et benedic navem istam....
Siñá Tona and tio Mariano on either side of the curate stood with eyes nailed to the ground.
The sacristan watched his master like a cat after a mouse, ready to say amen on the slightest
pretext. The multitude with heads bare was hushed and still, as though something extraordinary
were about to happen.

Don Santiago knew his public. He read the simple prayer slowly and solemnly, making each syllable
stand out, and introducing impressive pauses to take full advantage of the general silence.
The Rector, quite beside himself with emotion and not knowing what he was doing, nodded assent
to every word, as though taking those Latin phrases that were falling on his Mayflower seriously
to heart. What he really caught was all that about Arcam Noe ambulantem in diluvio; and he
straightened up to his full height in pride, at the vague feeling that his boat was being likened
to that ancient craft, the most famous in Christian annals! So he was a real comrade now of
that wicked old patriarch who invented wine and became the first and best sailor of his time,
on earth! Siñá Tona could stand the strain no longer. She crammed her handkerchief into both
eyes to keep the tears from bursting out. When the prayer was over, the curate reached for
the hyssop: Asperges ... and he sprinkled a rain of water upon the boat's stern, and the spray
dripped down in shining drops over the painted sides. Amen, said the sacristan; and don Santiago,
with the Rector in front of him to clear the way, and followed by the sacristan, amening every
word, started round the boat, showering Latin and holy water at every step.

Pascualo could not understand that the ceremonies were over. "See here, don Santiago! There's
the rigging still to do, and the deck, and then down in the hold! There's a good fellow! It
won't take you long ... and I'll do what's right, you know!" And the curate, smiling at the
earnestness of the young man's plea, went up, finally, to the ladder that had been set up against
the Mayflower's bilge, and began the ascent, catching the floundering cope underneath his feet
on every rung. And the vestment of white and gold caught the afternoon sun and gleamed afar
like the shell of a bright climbing scarab. But when he had blessed everything to the Rector's
full content, he withdrew with his assistant, and the throng rushed for the boat like an army
storming a wall.

They would give her the right send-off, that crowd of bedraggled loud-talking ragamuffins,
the scrapings from the whole beach, already besieging the sponsors with their petulant whining:
"Our candy now, and the almonds, the almonds!" "Señor" Mariano's face was beaming omnipotent
over the vessel's side. "Candy, eh! It's candy you want!" He well knew what all the good things
he had brought to eat had cost--one whole onza--gold--to keep on good terms with nephew! And
he bent over, and sunk his hands into the baskets between his legs. "Well, candy it is!" And
he began to rain nuts and cinnamon lozenges, as hard as bullets, upon the heads of the clamoring
mob, and the young ones, girls and boys, began to scramble on the sand, fighting for the goodies,
dirty underskirts squirming about among trousers with huge rents that showed the bare scaly
skins of the beach-combers underneath.

Tonet was uncorking bottles of gin and pointing them out to special friends with lavish and
condescending urgency as if he were doing the honors himself. Liquor began to pass around by
the jugful. Everybody was drinking--the beach guards, their guns on their shoulders, retired
sea-captains from the village, men from other boats--barefoot, mostly, these, and dressed in
yellow baize, like clowns--and tiny "cats," with knives of grotesque proportions thrust crosswise
into the sashes about their ragged waists.

The real carousal was going on up on deck. The planking of the Mayflower was beginning to clack
like the polished floor of a ball-room, and the rich smell of a tavern was filling the atmosphere
about the boat. Dolores, who could resist the call of all that gayety no longer, started to
climb the ladder, kicking out at every rung at the crowd of pestering "cats" who gathered round
for one look at the ankles of the pretty girl as she went higher. The Rector's wife knew that
her real element was up there where there was so much man around, where her charms would be
certain of voracious admiration as she stamped about on boards that belonged to her--every
inch of them--and where the women down below, especially Rosario--she would be green with envy--could
get a good look at her success.

Pascualo, meanwhile, was with his mother. On that solemn occasion, which meant so much to him,
which he had looked forward to for so long, he felt a strange return of his affection for the
poor old woman. He forgot his beautiful wife and even Pascualet--the rogue was as busy as could
be with the cinnamon balls, up on deck--to give all his attention to siñá Tona.

"A full-fledged master, outfitter, owner of a boat--my own boat!" And he kissed and hugged
the old mother who was weeping streams from her puffy eyes. Tona's thoughts indeed were running
back over long, long years of widowhood and loneliness and ostracism and over the memory of
that mad adventure with the guardsman, to a similar christening she had witnessed in her youth.
Tio Pascualo rose before her memory, strong, young, handsome, as she had known him in the days
of their courtship. And his departure from life became as bitterly sorrowful as if he had vanished
but the day before. "My boy, my boy--fill meu, fill meu!" she sobbed, throwing her arms about
the sturdy neck of the Rector, who at that moment seemed to be the resurrection of his father's
very self.

And Pascualo, in truth, was the honor of the family, the boy whose hard work had redeemed her
lost station, her lost importance, in that community. Her tears now were not of sorrow only
but of remorse. She had never loved the boy enough, not half so much as he deserved. Her affection
was overflowing now--she must make up for all the past. Then, she was afraid, yes, sir, afraid,
that her Pascualet, her poor little Rector, would go the way his father went; and as the words
hung tremulously upon her lips, she looked off toward the tavern-boat, just visible from the
Mayflower's splendid hull, in which that martyr of the sea had met his frightful end.

What a contrast between the Mayflower, so new, and strong, and spick, and span, and that rotting
hulk which, for lack of custom now, was daily growing blacker and more worm-eaten! The old
woman seemed to vision in the future a day when the Mayflower might drift ashore, cracked and
water-logged, just as old Fleet-Foot had come home with her husband's corpse in her hold. No,
she could not be happy. All that roistering and carousing was a sin. It was making fun of the
sea, that hypocrite with the smiling face out there, that purring cat that was meek enough
for the moment, but that would show her claws when once the Mayflower was in her power. Her
boy! What a strong handsome boy--and she loved him as much as though he had just come back
from a long voyage! But old Pascualo had been just as strong and handsome. And he made fun
of the sea too! Now, she knew it, she was sure of it! The sea had a grudge against her family,
and would swallow the new boat as it had wrecked the old.

"Bosh, mama, bosh! Recristo, the old lady will never get her hands on me! But anyhow, why go
crying on a glad day like this? You're just getting religion, like most of the old ladies--your
conscience is at you for having forgotten papa for so long, perhaps. But you can make that
right by lighting a good fat candle to the old sailor, in case his soul is still in Purgatory.
Come now, mama, brace up. No more prophesying! The sea is a good fine lover of mine. I won't
listen to any gossip about her! She gets riled at times, but after all she gives poor folks
like us a living. Here, Tonet! Give us a drink, a good big swig! Cheer the place up a bit.
Let's give the Mayflower a good old-fashioned send-off."

He took the beaker that was handed him and drank a deep draught. But his mother went on weeping,
her eyes still gazing at the tavern-boat down the shore. The Rector showed some signs of irritation.
"Still bawling, eh! And this is the time to talk of funerals! See, ma, you ought to have made
me a bishop, then there'd be no cause for whining from the women folks. Honest, and work hard,
say I, and trust to luck! That's the sailor's creed! The sea? The sea gives us everything.
It raises us when we are little. And it feeds us when we're grown up. We're always asking something
of the sea! Well, we have to take a storm now and then, along with the big runs. Besides, somebody's
got to risk his skin, if folks are going to have fish to eat. That somebody is me. Out to sea
I go, as I've always gone. And that's the end of that! And now, enough of this whimpering business,
what do you say, ma? Here's to Flor de Mayo! Here's to 'Mayflower.' Cristo! another mug, boys,
on me, on me! Drink her down, drink her down, till every mother's son of you is drunk. And
I'll feel insulted if they don't come down and get you to-night because you can't walk home,
and find you all rooting in the sand here like so many grunting hogs!"

CHAPTER VIII

THE MAYFLOWER PUTS TO SEA

Pascualo was on his way home from an afternoon in Valencia; but on reaching the Glorieta, he
stopped in front of the Old Customs House.

It was six o'clock. The sun was tinting the enormous front of the building an orange gold,
softening the colors of the greenish black smudge that the rain had left on the mansard windows.
The statue of Charles II seemed to be melting into the mellow bluish transparency of the light-filled
atmosphere. Through the gratings drifted the hum of a busy hive--voices calling, songs coming
from a distance, the metallic click of scissors as the workers picked them up or let them fall.

Out through the big entrance the girls from the nearest floors were beginning to pour in animate
throng--a horde of Indian shawls, a medley of strong arms with sleeves rolled above the elbow,
an army of lunch-boxes slung over shoulders, a pitter-patter of feet, hopping in short quick
steps like sparrows, a hub-bub of good-nights, of greetings, of parting gibes. The promenade
for the guards, where a few drinking fountains were the only obstructions, was one seething
mass of feminine youth.

The Rector, attracted by that curious riot of tobacco-girls, had paused on the sidewalk across
the street, among the newspaper stands. A strange fascination it had for him, that moving mass
of white handkerchiefs drawn tightly over pretty foreheads! What a bedlam! A regiment of females
in mutiny! A nunnery gone mad! A meteor-shower of black eyes, that stared at a man boldly,
immodestly, stripping the clothes off one, it seemed, with mocking effrontery!

And who was this coming in his direction? Roseta had spied him, and deserting a party of girls,
was tripping over toward him. Her companions were to wait for friends from another floor, and
they might be some minutes in starting. Was he going home? All right! They would go together!
Roseta hated just standing around!

They took the Grao road, Pascualo moving his sea-legs frantically to keep up with that devil
of a girl who never walked but she ran, though with an attractive swaying of her body which
made her skirt go up and down like the marking buoy in a yacht race. Shouldn't he carry her
lunch-box for her? Thanks! She was used to having it on her arm. Didn't think she could walk
so fast without it!

By the time they were at the Sea Bridge, the captain was on the subject of his boat, as usual.
That Mayflower of his could even make him forget he had a Dolores and a Pascualet! The next
morning the bòu-fishing began, and all the vessels would go out. "But she's queen of the lot!
We hitched the oxen on to her yesterday, and now she's in the water, anchored with the other
boats in the harbor. But there's no mistaking her, girl! She strikes your eye like a señorita
in the middle of a bunch of beach-trailers!" He had been in town to get a few odds and ends
still lacking to his equipment. Now he had a dollar to bet that not one of the rich men in
the Cabañal, who sat around at home and got the best of every load of fish without lifting
a finger, could show a craft half the witch the Mayflower was ... not half.

But the end which comes to everything in this world came also to the store of nice things the
Rector had to say, in his enthusiasm, about his boat. By the time the pair had reached the
bakery of Figuetes, Pascualo had lapsed into his normal taciturnity, and Roseta held the floor,
dealing with the forewomen in the tobacco factory in terms that such cattle deserved.

"Work the life out of you, they do! It was all I could do to keep myself from waiting outside
and pulling the topknot of that wench as she came out! I don't mind about myself so much. Mama
and me can get along on nothing almost. But it's different with others of us. Why, some of
those girls have to sweat like niggers, to feed some loafer of a husband, and a houseful of
brats that wait at the door at night with their mouths wide open to swallow half the bread
in town! What I don't see is how, in conditions like that, there's a woman left in the world
who can laugh. For instance ..." And the golden-haired Diana, so insensible to the allurements
of men, but reared withal among the filthy-mouthed ragamuffins of the seashore, struck an air
of stern and serious modesty, and recounted in words of disconcerting directness, but with
a rippling sweetness of tone that seemed to wipe the foulness of such language from her cheery
lips, the story of a shopmate of hers at home with a broken arm, after a beating from her husband,
who had caught her in flagrant wrong-doing with a friend of his! "I wouldn't call her much
of a woman, I wouldn't!" and the virtuous Roseta pouted the pout of a virgin who knows all
there is to know. "What a disgrace! And she had four children--four!"

The Rector smiled a ferocious smile. "So she got out of it with a broken arm, did she! I'd
have broken her neck, I would! No half-way business with these women that don't know what belongs
to their husband and what belongs to the other fellow! Imagine living with a thing like that!
Thank God, I didn't draw one of that kind. I've got a good wife and a happy home!" "Yes, you
can thank God, all right," Roseta assented with one of her smiles of compassionate contempt.
But the Rector was not spry of wit. And the finer shadings of irony escaped him.

But as the simple-minded sailor walked along, he grew more and more excited at the outrageous
conduct of that woman he didn't know and at the misfortune of that husband whose name he had
never heard. "You know, a rotten business like that gets under my skin, it does. Here's an
honest man breaking his back from morning till night to feed his woman and his boys and his
girls, and comes home from the shop and finds my lady flouncing around with Mr. 'Friend'! God,
girl! I'd cut the wench's throat, I would--if I swung for it! If you ask me, I say--well, whose
fault is it? The women! Yes, the women! What was a woman ever put on this earth for, except
to damn a man's soul! Diós! I never saw but two decent women, anyhow. One is Dolores, and the
other is you!" For the Rector, when he talked so extensively, was inclined to go to extremes,
and he felt this time that his sweeping denunciation needed that much qualification.

Though much good the concession did him! For his sister was now on ground where, from the long
tirades of Siñá Tona, she could be counted quite expert. She talked passionately, with a tinge
of irritation in her sweet vibrant voice. "Women, eh! Women! Not a bit of it! It's the men,
I say, and I know what I'm talking about. Among the pigs in this world, the prize hog is the
man! See trouble anywhere? Look and you'll find a man at the bottom of it. Mama says so, too.
There are two kinds of men in this world--scamps and puddingheads! If a woman goes wrong, it's
the man that's to blame. If she's not married they are all after her to get what they want
... and maybe I don't know that! If I was the fool some men take me for, God knows the fix
I'd be in to-day! And if you are married, well, it's worse, almost--for the scamps try to get
you into trouble, and the puddingheads haven't sense enough to keep their wives where they
belong. Look at Tonet, for instance! Wouldn't Rosario be serving him right if she went on the
street, even, to get square with him for all he does! And then, well, no! Stop at Tonet! We
don't need to give other examples! But the whole Cabañal knows about husbands that are themselves
to blame if their wives aren't all they ought to be!"

And the girl leered at the Rector so unguardedly, in saying this, that Pascualo, in spite of
his corpulent obtuseness, caught the glimmer of an allusion and studied her face enquiringly.
But his immense faith, at bottom, in people and in things stood him in good stead against any
dangerous inference. And he protested, mildly, at her exaggeration. Bosh! People in the Cabañal
made him sick! They were always talking about somebody, to pass the time. If you listened to
what people said, there wasn't a decent woman in town, nor a husband that wasn't the joke of
the beach. But that's only a way they had of amusing themselves. The Cabañal had no manners,
as don Santiago, the curate, said so well! "Now, take me, for instance. I've got the best,
sweetest wife in the world, and everybody knows it! Well, does that keep those fools from blabbing
about her? And who's the man? Tonet, may it please the court! Tonet, of all men! The people
in the Cabañal are donkeys, idiots, rotters, that's all! Tonet, God save us! Why, Tonet ...
he worships Dolores, like a mother.... But no, my house has simply got to be a brothel, for
those chatter-boxes.... Tonet! God!" And the Rector laughed one of those hearty laughs of pitying
superiority at the stupidity of people, the kind of laugh the Spanish peasant gives when he
hears some benighted ignoramus questioning the authenticity of the village Virgin's miracles.

Roseta stopped short in her tracks, sizing up the Rector with those dreamy sea-green eyes of
hers. What did that laugh mean? Was Pascudo serious? Yes, without a doubt. As serious as a
preacher! That puddinghead was proof-proof! And the certainty angered her. Instinctively, without
reckoning the consequences of what she was doing, she came out with the charges that had been
tickling her tongue for years! In short: two kinds of men, scamps and puddingheads! And a glance
of hers stamped the second label upon her brother, as he, in fact, divined.

"So I'm the puddinghead, am I! Hah-hah!... Now see here, Roseta ... out with it! All you know!
And no mincing of words, either, or you'll be sorry!"

They were half-way home now, near the roadside Cross. And they stopped a moment in front of
it. The Rector's ruddy face had turned pale as death, and he kept biting nervously at his fingers,
those blunt, bony, calloused fingers of a fisherman.

"Well, Roseta," he added, when she stood silent still. "Out with it!"

But the girl did not come out with it. She had caught a dangerous gleam in her brother's eye.
She was afraid she had gone too far; and, a kindly soul at heart, she repented her imprudent
innuendos. She had caused the pallor and the expression of fierce solemnity on that good-natured
face!

"Oh, as for knowing, Pascualo, I don't know anything. It's only what people say. But they say
lots of things. And if you want them to stop talking, I'd advise you to have Tonet around your
house as little, as little, as possible!"

Pascualo had stooped over the watering-trough near the Cross, and covered the whole end of
the pipe with his mouth, to let the stream run full into his stomach, as though to drown a
conflagration that was burning in his insides. He straightened up and started on, the water
dripping down over his chin, till he wiped it away with the back of a rough hand.

"I see. So that's all talk! Well, if they want to wait for me to be nasty to Tonet, they can
wait till hell freezes over. Filthy, stupid, malicious chatter-boxes! That's what they are!
So I must slam the door in the face of that poor boy, eh! Well, I won't! Just when he's settling
down a bit, from the good influence Dolores has over him! And they're all jealous of her, that's
what. Just plain jealous!" And the gesture with which he underlined the spiteful words seemed
to include Roseta among the envious. "Well, it's my affair, and so long as I don't worry, they
needn't. Let them talk their tongues off. That boy is what amounts to a son to me. Why, it
seems only yesterday when I was carrying him around in my arms, like a nurse. And when he went
to bed at night, I'd roll up in a ball almost, so's he could have plenty of room. And now I'm
to kick him out of my house. No, you don't forget some things in a hurry. Oh, yes, when things
go right and there's no trouble, you forget easy enough. You forget the fellows you used to
drink with in the taverns. But we used to be hungry together, redeu, hungry; and you don't
forget times like that. Poor Tonet! No! I'm going to stand by that boy till I get him on his
feet and make a man of him, I am. What do they think!... That I'm an ox, probably, a plain
damn fool! All right, but this damn fool has got a heart under his ribs, he has." And the Rector,
filling with deeper and deeper emotion, rapped on that well-padded chest of his, and his thorax
echoed like a drum.

For as much as a quarter of an hour the two of them walked on in silence, Roseta frightened
at the possible outcome of their conversation; Pascualo, in a gloomy mood, stumbling along
with lowered head and frowning darkly whenever he raised his eyes, clenching his fists as though
in struggle with an evil thought that would not down. Thus they reached the Grao and were through
it before either of them spoke.

"And anyhow, Roseta," said the Rector at last, from sheer necessity of giving some expression
to the anguished meditations that were writhing within him, "and anyhow, it's just as well
that it is mere talk. For if I should find some day, that it's more than that ... recristo,
nobody really knows who I am! I'm afraid of myself, sometimes! I'm an easy-going sort of chap,
and never go around looking for trouble. I even yield a point down on the beach, now and then,
because I've a boy to look out for and have never cared to play the bully, or the tough. But
there are two things in this world that I have, and that I call mine: my money, and my wife.
Let no one dare lay a finger on either of them. On the way back from Algiers, with that load,
I was afraid once the cutter was going to get us. And do you know what I had made up my mind
to do? Back up against the mast there, with my knife out, and kill and kill and kill, till
they cut me down on top of those bales of 'mayflower' that for me meant fortune. And then Dolores
... at times when I thought how nice she looked and what a good woman she was, something of
the great lady about her--I don't know what--that makes her so wonderful, it occurred to me--why
not say it right out?--that some fellow, some day, might try to get her away from me. Well,
sir, I could have throttled her almost, at the mere idea of such a thing, and then gone out
raving through the streets like a mad dog. I guess that's what I'm like, Roseta, a dog; so
good-natured, so harmless, ordinarily, but able to clean the town up when he goes mad, so's
they have to kill him. Well, that's the point! They'd better let me alone, and not go monkeying
with my happiness, nor with what I've got together with my own hard work...."

There was a drawn expression on his face as he looked at Roseta after this tirade, a veritable
oration for the phlegmatic Rector; and the poor girl felt as if she were being accused of the
attempted theft of Dolores.

But Pascualo suddenly, with a gesture of disdain, seemed to come out of his abstraction; and
it was evident he felt ashamed at having lost hold on his tongue so far, in a moment of baseless
alarm. He had had enough of Roseta, however. And, in fact, they could separate there. "Remember
me to mother!" he said, as he turned down to the beach, leaving his sister to go on alone along
the road toward the tavern-boat. But it was late that night before the influence of that disquieting
conversation was lifted from Pascualo's mind. Tonet was at home when he arrived, but did not
seem at all embarrassed in his presence. All a lie, of course! One look at the boy was enough
to show that! The Rector looked searchingly into his own heart, and could find no trace of
suspicion there. Nothing to it, absolutely, absolutely, nothing! And when, the men of the crew
dropped in to get their final orders for the next day, he had forgotten the matter completely.

He had hired a boat to work in team with the Mayflower, though, with dog's luck, he would some
day be able to build another just like her! Among the men was an old sailor whom the Rector
listened to with profoundest respect. Tio Batiste was the oldest tar in the whole Cabañal.
Seventy years of sailoring were stuffed into that sun-dried crackling hide of his, whence they
issued, smelling to heaven of strong tobacco, in the form of practical suggestions and maritime
prophecy. Pascualo had taken him on, not so much for the help his aged arms could give, as
for the exact knowledge he had of the coast thereabouts. From the Cabo de San Antonio to the
Cabo de Canet, the gulf did not have a hole nor a shallow that tio Batiste did not know all
about. Turn him into a smelt and toss him overboard, and he'd tell you where he was, the minute
he got to the bottom! The top of the water might be a closed book to other people; but he could
read, from the looks of it, just what there was underneath.

He would sit up forward on the boat, and describe the bumps on the bottom as though he were
on a wagon roughing the road-ruts. With one glance he could tell whether your boat was over
the kelp grounds, or over the mud-banks, called El Fanch, or over those mysterious submarine
hillocks, called the Pedrusquets, where the fishermen were always in terror of losing their
nets on the sharp crags that cut the seines to shreds. Between the Muralls de Confit, the Bareta
de Casaret and the Roca de Espioca, lay deep tortuous gullies far down under the sea. Tio Batiste
could drag a net through the winding channel there without catching on a single rock, and without
scooping up a mass of kelp that would break your tackle through. A dark night of fog! Not a
lighthouse visible! Thick gloom ten feet ahead! One taste of the mud on your net, and the old
wizard would say where you were to a hundred yards. Only a salmon or a squid could have been
the teachers of that wondrous learning! And tio Batiste knew many other useful things--that
you should not cast your seine on Hallowe'en, for instance, unless you wanted to bring up a
corpse; or that the man who carried the Cross of the Grao on Good Friday would never die at sea.

For that matter he had spent all his life on shipboard. By the time he was ten, he could show
callouses under his arm-pits, from hauling at the lines. He had a dozen trips to Cuba to his
credit--not the kind of trips youngsters brag about nowadays, because they've been across as
waiters or barbers on a big liner--but real voyages, in good old-fashioned faluchas, better
built than they make them now, that went out with wine and came back with sugar, and were owned
by gentlemen in cape-coats and top-hats! And every trip with a lamp on board, lighted at the
wick floating in the oil bowl before the Christ of the Grao! And a rosary every night on board,
without fail, unless you wanted something awful to happen! Those were the days, according to
tio Batiste, the real days, for sailormen. And as he cursed on, the wrinkles would wiggle all
over his face, and his ancient goatee would whip up and down; while vicious bits of forecastle
obscenity would punctuate his contempt for the irreligion and the conceit of the younger generation
of salts.

Pascualo liked to hear the old man talk. There was something of his old master, tio Borrasca,
about him, and the man reminded him of his father, old Pascualo, too. Though the other members
of the crew, Tonet, two sailors and the "cat," made fun of the venerable tar, and tried to
get him angry all the time by assuring him he was too old for the business now, and that the
curate would be willing to take him on as sacristan. Chentòla! Too old for real work, eh! Wait
till they got out to sea, and they'd whistle another tune! The boys of these days don't know
what a wind is! He'd be fanning himself, while they'd be calling for mama!

The next morning all the Cabin section was in motion. The bòu-boats would put to sea that evening
after sundown--taking the men-folks offshore for their honest battle with the elements for
bread. An annual migration of husbands, brothers and sons, this; but, nevertheless, the women,
thinking of the months of worry and uneasiness they would have ahead of them till spring, could
never take the event very calmly.

Captains were bustling about with their last preparations. They went down to the harbor to
look over their boats, test the pulleys, run the lines, raise and lower the sails, pound the
bottom over inside, be sure the supplies of rope and canvas were on hand, count baskets, examine
nets. And when inventories were complete they would have still to go back to the office to
get clearance papers from all those stuck-up fellows in white collars who could hardly speak
to a workingman decently!

When the Rector went home for dinner at noontime, he found siñá Tona in the kitchen talking
to Dolores, weeping her eyes out, and patting a bundle she held across her knees. When she
saw her son coming, she began at him angrily. "I've just heard, and it's a pretty father you
are! So Pascualet is going 'cat' on the Mayflower! A boy of eight, who might better be at home
with his mother, or at least playing down at the tavern with me! The idea! A baby like that
going to sea and made to do a man's work, and Lord knows what else! Well, I'm not going to
stand it, I'm not! That's not the way to treat a child! And since his mother don't dare open
her head, and his father is actually the one to blame, his grandma must take a hand! I've come
to get Pascualet and take him home with me. I won't allow such a thing. Pascualet! Pascualet!
Your grandmother wants to see you."

Pascualet came in, the little devil, swallowed up in a suit of yellow baize, barefoot, to be
more in character, and with a sash that passed almost under his arm-pits and made his blouse
bulge out like a balloon. Cocking his black cap down over one ear, he began to strut up and
down in front of the women, imitating the tough and independent manner of tio Batiste, and
trying to put some of that worthy's picturesque obscenity into the insults he heaped upon his
grandmother for her efforts in his behalf. "I'm through playing at the tavern! You can keep
your bread and cheese! I'm a man now, I am; and I'm going 'cat' in the Mayflower!"

His father and mother were in convulsions at the saucy antics of this chip of the old block.
As for the Rector, he could have eaten the boy alive with kisses. But siñá Tona could only
bawl and bawl like a cry-baby, till her son got really angry. "Mama, will you stop that noise!
What do you think we are doing to the boy, cutting his throat? The world isn't coming to an
end! Pascualet is just going to sea, the way his father, his grandfather and his great-grandfather
did. What do you want to make of him? A tramp? No, I want him to be a man of pluck, and able
to do a day's work, and not be afraid of salt water, where his living is likely to be. If I
can leave him a little bit, when I pass on, so much the better; but he ought to be ready to
look out for himself. He'll be in no danger. But if he gets to know what a boat is, he'll go
to it with his eyes open. Any one can have an accident, afloat or ashore. Just because my father
ended the way he did is no signs we're all to end that way. Too much bawling around here! Give
us a rest, will you!"

But siñá Tona knew they were all possessed of the devil! The sea had her eye on the whole family,
and would get them all, finally! She hadn't slept a wink for nights--and the most frightful
dreams! Worry and worry about your son! And then you find they're taking the baby, too. No,
she couldn't stand it any more. They were bound to kill her with worry and sorrow! If they
weren't her children, she wouldn't look them in the face, they were so brutal!

But the Rector, letting the old lady grumble on, sat down to his bowl of steaming soup. "What
do you say to dinner, Pascualet! Don't mind her! Your daddy is going to make the best sailor
in the Cabañal out of you! Tell us, mama, what you got in that bundle?"

Siñá Tona boo-hooed louder than ever at the joking question. A present! A little present, that
was all! She thought it would ease her mind. So she had taken what money she had saved--a few
pennies it was--and had bought something for him. A life-preserver! A neighbor of hers had
gotten it from an engineer on an English steamer! And she produced the huge vest of padded
cork, which folded up so easily along the seams! The Rector looked at the strange mechanism
and smiled. Did you ever! What things people could think of! "I'd heard there were rigs like
that in the world, but I never saw one before. Glad to have it aboard, though I can swim like
a fish, myself, and never do it in uniform!" And he was tickled to death, at bottom. He left
his soup and tried the life-belt on, laughing at his own stoggy appearance in it; for it made
his already generous allowance of paunch still more conspicuous, and he ended by looking and
puffing like a seal--for the straps made it hard for him to breathe. "Thanks, thanks! I'll
not drown in this. I'll simply strangle. But the Mayflower will like to have it!" And he dropped
it to the floor. When Pascualet, tugging and straining, finally got the thing on, his head
and feet barely extended beyond the cork armor. He was a tortoise in a shell, for all the world!

The meal was almost over, when Tonet came in, with a huge bandage around his hand. He had just
had a bad blow, that morning; and he reported the news in such a way, that his brother did
not see fit to ask how nor why; nor was the Rector sharp enough to note the self-conscious
expression on the face of Dolores. Up to his usual tricks, that boy! Probably been in another
fight in some drinking-place! "But what do you expect you'll be good for outside? All trussed
up like that! Never mind this trip. We won't be out more than a day or two, if we have any
kind of luck. We'll take you day after to-morrow, or next day!" The Rector talked on very calmly.
That temper of his was hard to ruffle! But Tonet and Dolores sat looking at the floor, as though
they were ashamed of something.

At four o'clock, the final preparations for the sailing of the fleet began. The bòu-boats,
two by two, were moored to the harbor wharfs, dipping their masts on the swell as though curtseying
to the people ashore, while their hulls went up and down in graceful undulation. Those tiny
sea-dogs, with their rough profiles of ancient galleys, made one think of the old armadas of
Aragon, or of the fleets of doughty pinnaces with which Roger de Lauria used to spread terror
along the coasts of Sicily. And the fishermen, too, as they came down, crew by crew, their
clothes and blankets in rolls over their backs, looked like the bands of almogávars that gathered,
of old, on the beach of Salou, to sail, in like craft or worse ones, to the conquest of Majorca.
A savor of the historic, of the antique, hovered about that fleet and about each separate craft,
which took you back, perforce, to sea legends of the Middle Ages, when the triangular sails
of Aragon were as dreaded of the Moors of Andalusia as of the isles that lay smiling in the
classic seas of Greece.

The whole village was down on the shore. Women and children were running here and there, trying
to identify, in the forests of masts, of crossing and criss-crossing cordage, the boats where
their own men were. It was the annual excursion into the deserts of the sea, the recurring
foray out into danger to snatch bread from the mysteries of the deep, which sometimes gives
up its treasures peacefully and without a struggle, but at others hangs on to them and threatens
the plucky Argonaut with death.

Down over the gang-planks from wharf to deck moved a procession of bare feet, yellow trousers,
sun-baked faces, all that miserable flock of human beings who are born, live and die, on that
shore there, knowing nothing of the world that lies beyond that blue horizon. Hunger, on the
starting-line, as it were, for a race with death at the signal of opulence! Men condemned to
ignorance and filth and danger, that, inland, other men may sit down before glossy linen table-cloths,
and feel their mouths water before a succulent lobster's claw on a creamy cod swimming in luscious
sauce!

The sun was hanging low. The last flies of summer, their huge bellies swollen and their wings
sluggish, were buzzing about in the golden afternoon, gleaming with a sputtering fire. Away
to the horizon, which the peak of the Mongó broke with a blotch of haze, like an island floating
in the distance, the sea stretched calm and tranquil. Good weather! Good weather! That was
the burden of every woman's tongue, as the boats swallowed up crew after crew. With good luck,
there would soon be good things a-plenty in every house! Now the "cats" were almost the only
sailors left on shore. They were still running up and down the wharves, stamping barefoot on
the pitchy floorings, doing the last errands of the captains, putting the hard-tack aboard,
and a final cask of wine!

And the sun was down. Everybody--more than a thousand men in all, there were--was now on board.
The boats were waiting only for the papers to come down from the offices. How slow those lubbers
worked! The spectators on shore were beginning to get impatient, as though the curtain were
late in rising on a show.

For still one ceremony had not yet been completed. From time immemorial it had been the custom
of the whole village to wish the bòu-fleet godspeed by insulting the men who were going away.
As the boats cast off, atrocious witticisms flew back and forth between deck and shore--all
in good humor, of course, for such tradition would have it, and it was a test of brains, besides,
to be able to say just the right word to those lanudos, those husbands whose eyes would be
snugly plugged with wool, and come home in blessed ignorance of all their wives had been up
to meanwhile! This theme of the wayward wife and the unsuspecting husband is the commonest
sport--however cruel it may seem--along the shores of the Levant; and so inveterate the habit,
so inevitable the parting serenade, that some of the departing sailors went aboard with pockets
or baskets full of stones, to be ready for any thrusts they could not parry with words.

And the last of the after-glow had faded. The lamps along the wharves gleamed like a rosary
of fire. Red snakes of light coiled and writhed out over the placid waters of the basin. Stars,
green and scarlet, shone from the peak of every mast. The sea was catching the ashen brightness
of the nocturnal sky, and boats and buildings stood out in dark outlines of indigo against
a vast background of nickel gray. "They're off! They're off!" Sails were being hoisted one
by one, and in the night the canvas filtered the harbor lights as through veils of distended
crêpe, or translucent wings of great black butterflies.

Swarming mobs of ragamuffins had occupied the points farthest projecting seaward. That would
give their gibes the greatest possible range. And what fun it would be! But all ready to duck
I They've got plenty of stones aboard to-night!

Slowly, gently, with barely perceptible motion in that breath of air, the first pair of boats
drew out from the wharf-side, nodding idly on the swells like lazy bulls reluctant to make
their dash. It was still possible from the piers to identify the teams and the men aboard them.
"Good-by! Good-by!" the women called to their husbands. "Adiós! Bon viache!" But the youngsters
were already at it, shrieking obscenities into the night in a tumultuous uproar. "Did you ever
hear such talk!" Though the very wives who caught allusions to themselves laughed as loudly
as any one at the most happy scores. It was one carnival of free language, where truth ran
riot with slander.

"Lanudos! Worse than lanudos! I know where the curate is going to stay to-night! Johnnie will
take good care of her, don't worry, my lad! Moo-oo! Moo-oo!" And this mooing of cattle was
supposed to evoke the image of well-horned oxen in the minds of those brave sailors who were
thus being cheered on their way out into peril. But then the stones began to come, whistling
like bullets and striking sparks on the rocks where the serenaders were seeking cover. The
greatest uproar was at the end of the Breakwater near which every boat had to pass on its way
out from the basin. And when the volleys of jest would slacken from the shore, provocation
would come from the boats themselves. The sailors seemed offended if their team went past without
attention. "And you've nothing to say to us, eh!" some stentorian voice of an old tar would
call. "Lanudos! Lanudos!" the answer would come in a storm of shouting, while the "cats" on
board would begin to blow on the conches, which the boats used at sea in time of dark or fog.

On one of the rocks, in the full midst of a noisy crowd, and quite indifferent to the flying
stones, stood Dolores, alone. The women who had gone down to the shore with her kept farther
back away from the line of fire. Yet she was not quite alone. For a man had sauntered carelessly
in her direction and finally stopped behind her. The splendid creature felt the warmth of Tenet's
breath upon her neck, and her skin tingled under that burning contact. She turned her head
and caught one fiery glance from his hungry eyes. And the bandaged hand, which had been drawing
feigned groans of pain a few hours before, sought hers in the darkness. Free at last! For once,
free! Free from fear of surprise, from thoughts of danger! Neither the Rector nor his son would
be at home!

But a sudden shouting of redoubled violence awakened them from their swooning dream of guilty
anticipation. "The Rector! There he goes! Flor de Mayo! 'Mayflower'!" And the most rousing
of all the send-offs was for him. It was not only the young ones this time. Grown-ups, men
and women, joined in the scathing jollity. For Dolores, the beautiful, Dolores, the bewitching,
had her enemies in that throng of jealous wives. "Hey, the Rector! Hey, the prize-lanudo! A
toreador for you, when you come home! The devil will want you, for the horns you'll have! Is
it Jersey or Holstein? Or just any old steer, except a short-horn! And we're telling the truth,
for once!"

Tonet grew uneasy. He was in plain sight of the throng. Some one might carry the joke too far!
But Dolores showed herself a true daughter of tio Paella! She laughed and laughed, as though
the best compliments of the sailing had been for her.

And the Rector was delighted. He had always thought himself the most popular man in town! "And
what else have you got to say, mutton-heads?" he challenged, as his boat glided slowly along
the shore, his moon-face beaming over the varnished stern of the Mayflower. "What else have
you got to say!" That bravado gave impetus to the pointed insolence on the Breakwater. "Look
at them over there? Tonet is with Dolores! Tonet is with Dolores! Lanudo! Cuckold! He's leaving
a happy home to-night! But Tonet will be there! No vacation for Dolores!"

The Rector let go the tiller and stood up on the stern, livid with anger! "Pigs, hogs, grunters!
Morrals! Cochinos!"

It was all very well to make fun of him. But this bringing the name of a woman in, and his
brother's too, was going a bit too strong, a bit too strong!

CHAPTER IX

"PROOFS! PROOFS! ROSARIO!"

God had poor folks in mind that year! The women of the Cabañal, crowding the beach in the afternoon,
were sure of that. The boats had been out two nights and a day, and they were already coming
home. The stiff horizon line was dotted with sails, in pairs, the bòu-teams hurrying shoreward
before a favoring breeze, like couples of doves yoked by a belt at the water-line. The oldest
women along shore could not remember such fishing! Lord, the fish just seemed to be sitting
there in solid packs, waiting patiently to be scooped out. The poorest people in town would
have plenty to eat for once in their lives.

The boats ran in and anchored a few yards from the surf, lowering their big sails, and swinging
round to head the wind, gently, gracefully, pitching. Mobs of dirty calico skirts, red faces
and tangled heads rushed to the water's edge in front of each team, the women shrieking, cursing,
quarreling, arguing, as to whom the fish should go. Overboard the "cats" jumped into the water
that reached their waists, and the other men followed. A straight line of moving baskets formed
between vessel and shore, human torsos rising higher and higher above the surface of the sea
till bare feet touched dry sand. There the wives of the skippers were on hand to take charge
of the catch.

The beach was one sparkling shining display of beauty. The fish were still alive and flopping
in the baskets. Rock-salmon, like palpitating carnation petals, lay there wriggling their soft
vermilion and gasping frantically for breath. Slimy devil-fish crooked their backs in agony
or drew together in masses of squirming, crawling suckers. Flounders, as thin and flat as the
sole of a shoe, pounded their tails vigorously about. The wide, kite-like fins of rays, quivered
in their sticky glue. But squid, squid, everywhere, the most valuable prey of all! The waters
offshore seemed literally alive with squid! And the catch was tremendous. Basket after basket
shone with masses of transparent iridescent crystal, the slimy crustaceans waving their tentacles
desperately about, setting the black of their receptacles a-glitter with the soft colors of
mother-of-pearl.

The stretch of water between the boats and the surf was as crowded as a city street. "Cats"
were wading out with flagons of water on their shoulders. The sailors, tired of the lukewarm
filthy drink from the hogsheads aboard, longed for a draught from the ice-cold fònt de Gas.
Tiny girls from the cabins along shore, their ragged skirts innocently rolled high above their
knees, were splashing about in the puddles, looking at everything with eager curiosity, and
filling their aprons with the littlest fish. Some of the vessels were to lie up on shore for
a day. And the oxen, owned cooperatively by the village fishermen, splendid mastodontic creatures,
yellow and white, were solemnly, majestically, deliberately, lumbering in and out of the water,
shaking their enormous double chins with the gravity of Roman senators. Their polished hoofs
sank deep into the sand; but they could beach the heaviest boat at a single pull. Driving them,
geeing and hawing, was Chepa, a sallow round-shouldered sickly fellow, with the expression
of a crabbed witch, on his foetus-like face. He might have been fifty. He might have been fifteen.
He was dressed in yellow oilskins, his bare red feet protruding from under the huge baggy trousers,
the skin on them showing the outline of every tendon and every bone. As a boat would slowly
scrape along up out of the water, a throng of ragged disheveled youngsters would rush down
to meet it, running along beside it through the surf like a cortege of nereids and tritons,
noisily begging for a handful of cabets!

A market was being improvised right on the beach, and sales were going on in a hub-bub of shouting,
cursing, and shaking of fists. The wives of the captains, intrenched behind their overflowing
baskets, were going it hammer and tongs with the fish-women who would retail the catch next
day at Valencia. When it came to the weighing, the fights would start all over again. The owners
would try to keep out the big fish, las piezas gordas; while the buyers would object to including
the small fry. Rough scales were being fashioned of baskets hung on ropes, big stones serving
as weights. Some gamin from the village, who had been to school, was always on hand to volunteer
as book-keeper for the owners, entering the sales in pencil on almost any piece of paper.

The vendors would move the baskets they had bought around with their feet, while the beach-combers
looked on covetously. Let a fish slip off and it vanished as though through a hole in the sand.
Whenever a new pair of boats came in the crowd would run to a new section of the shore and
people from Valencia who had dropped down to see the sight, would find themselves nearly swept
off their feet by the rude scrambling mob.

That was a great day for Dolores. For years she had figured on the beach as one in the riot
of vendors merely. How she had longed to rise to the class of owners, still to haggle, of course,
but to dictate terms, from a vantage point, to that dirty turbulent crowd of lower scum! And
now her dream of glory was being realized! She stood sniffing at the air through that disdainful
nose of hers, straightening up full height behind her array of baskets; while Tonet--educated
in the Royal Navy, if you please--was tending the scales and setting down the figures.

Her keel barely awash in the surf, the Mayflower was waiting for the oxen to drag her up high
and dry. The Rector was still aboard, helping his men furl the sail. At times he would stop
and look ashore, watching his wife fighting tooth and nail there, and calling out the figures
which his brother was to set down. What a woman! Could a queen be prettier! And the poor fellow's
chest heaved with pride and joy at the thought that Dolores owed all that glory to him, to
him alone.

Forward, on the tip of the bow, Pascualet reared his diminutive and motionless manhood, looking
more like a walrus than an eight-year-old boy, the figure-head of the boat, as it were. Barefoot,
and as dirty as could be, his shirt-tail out on one side and flapping in the wind, his breast
exposed to the sea-air and as tanned and red as the bust of a statue of mud, he was the admiration
of a crowd of little beach-combers, who had gathered round, hardly a stitch on their bronzed
limbs, so lean and bony from a life-long diet of salt fish.

But what a catch the Rector had made! His boat loaded to the scuppers with squid, and at thirty
cents a pound--you figure it up yourself! The penniless idlers on shore surveyed the wonder-worker
as though a sea of dollars were pitching and tumbling out there beyond the surf. Chepa came
down with his oxen, and the Mayflower began to climb the beach, grating along over the runners
that had been laid under her bottom. Pascualo had jumped down from the deck and gone to Dolores,
his face wreathed in smiles at sight of her standing there with her apron caught up to hold
a peck or more of silver coins that represented her cash sales. Fairly good for two days' work,
eh! A few trips like that and they'd have a pretty pile! And there was a good chance for the
luck to hold! Old tio Batiste knew where the best places were!

But the Rector stopped and looked at his brother. The bandages on the injured hand had disappeared.
So Tonet was in trim again already! That was good news to add to the good catch! He wouldn't
miss the next sailing now! And he would see some real fishing, I'll tell you! Just the trouble
of hauling them in, with your net full at every shot! "We'll be going out at sunrise, to-morrow
morning, to make the best of this run, while it lasts!"

Dolores had sold everything; and she asked her husband if he would be going home. The Rector,
however, could not say. He hated to leave the boat. The crew would be going off and getting
drunk, let alone that bunch of little devils who would strip her clean of everything that could
be carried the moment his back was turned. It would probably keep him busy till way into the
night. If he wasn't home by nine o'clock, she had better go to bed. Tonet should go and get
his pack ready and say good-by to Rosario; so as to be on the beach an hour before dawn. There
would be no waiting in such times!

Dolores looked at her husband and then at Tonet. She said she would be going along. Pascualet
did not want to go with her, when she called. He would rather stay down at the boat with papa.
Dolores had to start off alone, and the two men stood gazing after her beautiful figure, as,
with a graceful swinging of hips and shoulders, it vanished in the distance. Tonet hung-around
till after dark, swapping stories and banter with tio Batiste, and discussing the great catch
with the men of the crew. He did not leave till the "cat" began to get supper ready on board
the Mayflower.

Left to himself, Pascualo began to walk up and down the beach, his hands stuffed into his sash,
and the legs of his oilskins rasping noisily as they rubbed together. The shore was quite dark.
Here and there a stove could be seen glowing on the deck of some boat, blinking as the figure
of a sailor passed in front of it. The sea was shrouded in deep gloom, marked by an occasional
flash of phosphorescence. The surf was trickling in with a barely audible moan. Softened by
the distance came the voices of some "cats" singing as they made their way toward the Cabañal
and stirred some dog to bark along the road. A faint band of reddish light still loitered above
the horizon where the sun had sunk behind the housetops.

The Rector did not like that reddish after-glow. His experience at sea had taught him to see
in it the signs of unsettled weather. But that thought did not concern him long. The joy of
the successful trip was too insistent still. No, things were going well, weren't they! Few
men in the world with more reason to be thankful than he! A pretty home! A delicious and a
frugal wife! The prospect of building another boat, before the year was out, to go in team
with the Mayflower! And then a boy after his own heart! Pascualet took to salt water like a
mackerel! Why, in time that youngster would be the best captain along shore! Better off, far,
than the happy man in the story who didn't have a shirt to his back! He wouldn't have to worry
about cold weather--nor rainy days! And there would be a bit left over for old age!

Gloating over his good fortune, Pascualo quickened his lumbering pace as a corpulent sea-dog,
and rubbed his hands with satisfaction. But in the darkness ahead of him a figure suddenly
appeared, advancing slowly in his direction. Only a woman! Some beggar, probably, making the
rounds of the fleet to pick up a spare fish here and there! And so it goes! How many poor devils
there are in the world! Why shouldn't a fellow do a little something for one of them now and
then! And the Rector's hand felt at a lump in the end of his sash where he had knotted a few
silver coins along with a copper or two.

"Pascualo!" came the call. It was a soft, timid, hesitating voice. "Is that you, Pascualo?"

"Cristo! What a mistake! I took her for a beggar! And it's Rosario! Well, well! Looking for
Tonet, I suppose! Now that's too bad! You've missed him! He's just gone home. He'll be there
wanting his supper, and wondering where you are!"

But the skipper, overflowing with good humor, was taken somewhat aback when he learned that
Rosario was not looking for Tonet at all. She had come to see the Rector! What was up? He had
never been on very good terms with his sister-in-law. Queer she should be turning to him! However,
there was nothing to be done except hear her through. He stood with folded arms, his eyes turned
toward the boat where Pascualet and the other "cat" were dancing back and forth around the
soup-kettle. Well, what could he do for her? He was listening! And resignedly he waited for
the tale of woe he was sure would come from that figure, so vaguely outlined in the darkness,
and afraid, it seemed, to begin to speak.

But Rosario with sudden resolution, threw her head energetically back, nailed two flaming mysterious
eyes upon the Rector, and began to talk as though in a hurry to get through with it. She had
something to say to him, something that concerned the reputation of the whole family. She could
not stand it any longer! She and Pascualo had become the laughing-stock of the whole place.

"Ah! What's this you're saying? The laughing-stock of the whole place! And what are they laughing
at me for, silly? Just take a look at me and the Mayflower! Do you see anything specially funny
about us?"

"Poor Pascualo!" Rosario said, slowly this time, but in deadly earnest, and with the tone of
a person prepared to face the worst, "Pascualo, Dolores is not being true to you."

Pascualo reared like a steer struck with an ax between the eyes. Then he stood dazed for an
instant, his great head sunk upon his chest. But it was only for a second. That man had a deep
faith in the goodness of things and people. His balance could stand harder buffets from the
world than that.

"Hold your tongue, Rosario, your lying tongue, and get out of my sight. You're a liar, a liar,
that's what you are!"

Had there been light enough for Rosario to see the Rector's face, she would doubtless have
obeyed, frightened. His right foot was kicking at the sand, as though the falsehood were a
loathsome worm to be ground under his heel. His arm was doubled up and his fist was clenched.
Words seemed to come choking from his throat.

"You rag of a woman! And don't everybody know who you are? A back-biter, a cheap gossip, and
a trouble-maker. You hate Dolores! You'd do anything to hurt her! You've driven my poor brother
to the dogs with your beastly temper! And now you would dirty the reputation of Dolores! And
she's a saint! A saint, do you hear! And a woman like you isn't good enough to kiss the bottom
of her shoe, you snake! And now, get out of here, and do it quick, damn quick! Get out of here,
or I'll kill you like a rat!"

But Rosario stood there impassively. The calm determination in her did not shrink before those
insults and those menacing fists.

"Pascualo, Dolores is not being true to you," she repeated slowly, and with despairing firmness.
"She is making a fool of you. And the man ... is ... Tonet!"

The Rector stiffened in speechless fury! And his brother she would bring in too, in that low-down
spiteful jealousy of hers!

"Get out of here, I say! Get out of here, Rosario, or I'll kill you as sure as ever you were
born!" And he meant it, this time. He had seized her by the two wrists, squeezing them till
the bones seemed ready to break, and he threw her around on her heels. But in sudden fear,
she wrenched loose, and sidled away, to a safe distance, muttering and protesting. She was
not a liar, nor a jealous gossip. She had meant to do him a favor. Keep him from looking like
a fool to the town. But if he was satisfied, why should any one else care? He could go on being
the happy cuckold, and joy go with him. And she made off, on the run, throwing back, in insolent
mockery, the epithets that had been rained on Pascualo the day the Mayflower put to sea: "Steer,
hornpate, llanut!"

The Rector, his arms folded, stood looking after her till she was out of sight in the dark.
Then a sense of duty well done came over his unsuspecting innocence. "Well, did you ever see
anything like that? God, imagine being married to her! Poor Tonet! Swallows everything she
hears, and tries to use it to get even! But I guess she got all she wanted from me! That will
teach her to come tale-bearing another time. God, what a wench!" And puffing with self-righteousness,
he resumed his walk, scarcely noticing that the wash from the surf was now reaching his big
boots. "God, what a woman!"

But, all of a sudden, the Rector stopped. It was as though something had been brewing silently
in the unconscious recesses of his soul, and then had rapidly boiled up, catching in his throat,
strangling him, filling his whole being with mortal anguish.

"She said ... and ... supposing it were true! How do I know she is lying!"

As Pascualo followed this trend of thought, he stamped and splashed up and down on the wet
sands, driving his nails into his hands, and swearing under his breath as he swore only at
sea when a blow was on. See here ... Tonet was engaged to Dolores once! It was Tonet who had
taken him to her house, in the first place. The two were together a great deal of the time.
She was always talking to him about Tonet! Tonet this, Tonet that! "And I ... I ... never ...
God ... the last to suspect anything! The laughing-stock of the Gulf! And yet ... bah ... impossible!"
How that damned woman would like to see him get upset, and make trouble the way she did! Be
taken in like that? Not a grown-up man, like him! And besides, what had the wench said! Nothing
but what Roseta had said, and hundreds of others, but just to worry him! The men on the beach
always had jokes like that on each other, to make things lively. But it was just fun! Whereas
that Rosario was trying to make trouble, she was! Spiteful as a mad cat! "Bosh, lies, lies!
I stand by Dolores, through thick and thin! And that boy of ours! Pascualet, the little major!
And what a regular old salt, though hardly as big as a chipmunk! Mentira! Tot mentira!"

And the Rector stamped and splashed on up and down the beach, talking aloud, stopping, shrugging
his shoulders and gesticulating, inviting the sea, the boats, the very shadows of the night,
to say whether it was not all a damned lie of that crazy female. Though a wicked devil was
lurking somewhere inside him; for every time that he said "lie," and the objects of the night
said "lie," the word echoed within him as "Llanut, bruto, steer, bull, ox--with horns!"

"And, by God, if it is true ..." What he had said to Roseta that afternoon on the way home
through the Grao, came into his mind. Tonet, Dolores ... yes, even Pascualet ... if one of
them laid a finger on his honor! "And wait a minute! A woman like that, to get even with Dolores,
would slander her in public! But would she come to me intimate-like, all by ourselves. No,
it would take courage to do that! She'd need to have good grounds ... Fool I was not to let
her talk ... then I'd know the very worst!" And anything, at that moment, seemed to the Rector
preferable to his state of anxious, raging torment.

"Pare! Pare!" a cheery little voice began to call from the deck of the Mayflower. Supper was
ready! Supper! Who could care about supper with that mess on a fellow's mind! The Rector strode
up to the boat, and in a tone that was surprisingly harsh and commanding, told the men to eat
their meal and go to bed, for he had something to attend to in town. If he didn't come back,
they were to get up and have things ready for the start at sunrise.

Pascualo did not look at his little son, but darted, like a phantom, off along the black shore,
running into boats at times, then stumbling into the deep puddles that the sea had dug out
in the sand in stormy weather. But he was feeling better! It was a relief to be thinking that
he would soon be talking to Rosario again. Those terrible insults she had hurled at him had
stopped hurting. His brain was no longer that whirl of mad desperate ravings! He seemed to
be walking on air, instead, as though his heavy body were a feather! Yet there was still a
griping sensation in his throat, that caught his breath; and when he swallowed, his mouth had
the bitter taste of brine. To the last word! To the last word! She would tell every blessed
thing she knew, or she'd be sorry! Recristo, who would have said two hours before that after
such a trip offshore, he would be sneaking off to the house of a woman he despised, and through
the back streets so no one would see him! What a devil of a woman! Stuck the knife in just
the right spot! How was it that five words from a chatter-box could spoil a man's soul like that!

He was almost running as he entered a dirty street in one of the most miserable sections of
the village, lines of dwarf olives on either hand, the sidewalks filthy with trodden dirt,
and lined with two rows of shacks, the front yards fenced in with old boards. The door of Rosario's
cottage was closed. He ran into it with a violence that almost snapped the latch, and as it
swung open, it banged violently against the wall behind. In the murky light of a single candle,
Rosario was sitting on a stool, her head between her hands. Her demeanor of sorrow and despair
was quite in harmony with the desolate, ill-furnished interior of that hovel--a table, a couple
of chairs, two chromos on the wall for decoration, an old mandolin, and some abandoned fish-nets.
The place, as the women of the neighborhood said, had the smell of hunger and wife-beating.

Rosario looked up as the door slammed open, and the Rector's massive figure towered over the
threshold, completely filling the door-way. "Oh, it's you!" she said with a bitter smile. She
had been waiting for him. She knew he would come. Wouldn't he have a chair? He had been rough
with her down on the beach, but she didn't mind. "We all feel that way at first! I couldn't
believe it when they first told me about Tonet. I slapped the face of the woman who came to
me. And then, an hour later, I went and asked her for God's sake to tell the truth. Well, you
were going to kill me a little while ago. And here you are! When people are really in love
... they get mad at first. But then they want to know the truth, even if it pulls the heart
out of them! We are both fools, Pascualo!"

The Rector had closed the door behind him, and was standing now in front of his sister-in-law,
his arms folded, looking at her with a scowl of angry hostility, the instinctive hatred a man
feels toward the one who wrecks his dream.

"The truth, now! The truth! Speak out! All you've got to say!" Pascualo hissed the threatening
words, to put a stop to that everlasting moralizing of an idiot! Would she never get to the
point? Yet, in all his menacing, raging impatience, there was terror in his soul, the wish
that minutes might turn, almost, to centuries, to postpone the cruel revelation.

Well, yes, she would tell him everything! But how would he take it? What she had to say would
hurt him terribly, and he must not hate her so for it. She had had her time of it too. She
had suffered now till she could stand it no longer. She hated Tonet, and she hated that infamous
Dolores! For her Pascualo was simply a comrade in misfortune. Dolores had been deceiving him.
"Oh, it's not a matter of yesterday or day before. They've been carrying on for years--almost
from the time Tonet and I were married. Tonet was a good boy. But when that thing saw some
one else have him for a husband, she set her eyes on him, and she was the one who first led
him astray."

"Bosh!" roared the Rector, blind with fury and anguish. "I want proofs! I'm tired of your talk.
Proofs! Proofs, Rosario! And be quick about it."

Rosario smiled pityingly at sight of such a fool! "Proofs! Proofs! Why don't you ask the whole
village for proofs, proofs! They've been laughing at you for a year or more. It has been the
talk of the town. You won't get angry at me? You want the whole truth? Well, even the 'cats'
and the sailors on the beach, when they want to say that a man's wife is deceiving him, call
him a worse lanudo than the Rector."

"Damn your soul!" Pascualo roared, clenching his fist and shaking it in Rosario's face. "Rosario
... Look, Rosario, be careful what you say. Because ... if you don't make good on every blessed
word of it ... I'll wring your neck the way I would a chicken's."

"I wish you would! I'm tired of living. What have I to live for? No children! Not a friend
in the world! Work like a dog from morning till night, to give him the money I earn so as to
escape a beating. And he beats me just the same! Wring my neck! That doesn't scare me! Look,
Pascualo, look!"

Rosario rolled up her sleeve, and showed on the sallow skin that covered the bones and tendons
of her fore-arm, the black-and-blue marks where a heavy hand had squeezed it as in a vise.
"And that's only one. I can show you others almost anywhere on my body! And they come from
having complained about his bad behavior with Dolores! This one here I got this morning, when
I said he ought not go to the beach with her and help her sell the fish as though he was her
husband. And I said it wasn't fair to make a fool of the Rector in public like that! But you
want proofs, proofs! Well, why didn't Tonet go out with you on the first trip two days ago?
He hurt his hand, didn't he? Yes, but his hand got well the moment the Mayflower was beyond
the Breakwater. And the next morning there wasn't a bandage to be seen. And everybody noticed
it. And you went to sea, to stay up all night, in the cold and wet, to keep your home going
for your wife, your dear Dolores! And Tonet stayed all warm and cosy at home with her, the
pair of them laughing to see what a stupid, self-satisfied idiot you were! Tonet didn't sleep
in this house after you sailed. And he's not here even to-night. He ran in a few moments ago,
got his things and was off, saying he wouldn't be back again. And where is he, Pascualo? Over
at your house of course! They are sure the Mayflower will keep you down on the shore all night.
And Tonet is preparing to make himself at home in your place!"

"Recristo!"

The Rector raised his eyes to heaven, as he muttered the oath, in protest, it seemed, against
the powers above who allow such things to happen to an honest man. But he was a stubborn fellow
at bottom. His trustful, inoffensive, disposition made it hard for him to believe things like
that were possible. Inwardly convinced, he nevertheless came back with a menacing rejoinder:

"You are lying, Rosario! You know that you are lying!"

But the challenge put Rosario on her mettle! "So I'm lying! Oh say, Pascualo, what's the use
of talking with a man like you. You're so blind you can't see the nose on your face. What are
you yelling about? What have I done to you? You're as blind as a bat, yes, sir, blind as a
bat. A man with a spoonful of brains inside his skull would have seen through the situation
from the first. But you ... you don't notice anything. You never noticed whether your boy looks
like you or like him!"

And that was a nasty thrust! Though the Rector's face was as brown as shoe-leather from years
in the sun and the salt-air, it turned a bluish ashen pale. His knees seemed to sag as if he
were going to fall, and the shock made his words come out faint, husky and stammering.

"My boy! My Pascualet! Well, whom does he look like? Spit it out, damn you! Pascualet ... is
my boy, my boy. And he looks like me ... like me ... he does!"

But the laugh with which Rosario answered was the hollow, sarcastic, mocking laugh of a she-devil!
Pascualo did not quite understand. What was there to laugh about in his saying that his boy
was his boy? In terror he waited for her explanation. "Why, stupid! If Pascualet is your boy,
he ought to look like you, oughtn't he, just as you look the way your father, old Pascualo,
looked. Well, he doesn't, that's all! He looks like Tonet--eyes shape, build, and complexion!
Poor dunce of a Rector! They call you lanudo! But the wool on your eyes is thicker than they
ever guessed! Heavens, man, take a peep at the boy! He's the living picture of Tonet, as Tonet
used to be in the days when he was a boy with you, down at the tavern, and was running around
like a little devil on the beach!"

The Rector did not need convincing further. He was ready to believe that now. A cataract had
been removed from before his eyes, and he saw things clearly, though the world had a strange
unfamiliar aspect for him, as it does to a blind man led forth for a first glimpse of it. Gospel
truth! Pascualet was Tonet over again! How many times, on looking at the boy, he had had, on
his own account, a feeling that he was really looking at some one else--though just whom, he
could not quite say!

Pascualo pressed a pair of clenched fists to his chest as though his heart were burning inside
him and he were trying to tear it out; then he brought them down with a noisy thud upon his
temples. "Recontracordons! God of God of God of Gods!" he groaned in a voice of agony that
terrified Rosario. "Holy Christ of the Grao!" He staggered a few steps across the room, like
a drunken man, and threw himself flat on the floor with a crash that shook the rickety building.
He rolled over, and his legs seemed to bound from the violence of the fall.

When the Rector came to his senses again, he found himself lying on his back, and something
warm and tickling was running over his cheeks, like a soft wriggling snake. He wiped his face
where it hurt, with his hand, and the hand came back, as he saw in the murky candle light,
all covered with blood. His nose felt hot and swollen. He understood what had happened. In
going to the floor he had struck hard on his face. His nose had been bleeding in streams. Rosario
was just kneeling beside him to wash the blood away with a damp cloth. The girl's look of terror
brought him back to all he had been hearing, and he repelled her with a gesture of hatred.

"Don't touch me! I can get up by myself. And much obliged for all you have told me! No, no!
Don't bother to excuse yourself! I'm delighted! Favors like that are never forgotten. And lucky
I bumped my nose. Otherwise I might have burst a blood vessel. God, how my head aches! But
never mind! Cheer up! What a time I'm going to have! I've been too good-natured in my life,
I have! But why should a fellow try to do right and put his whole life into working for his
family? There's plenty of loafers, and gossips, and rotten women, standing around to bring
an honest man to ruin. But now watch me, and you'll see something worth while. This town is
going to have something to remember the Rector by, Pascualo el Retor, the most famous lanudo
of the Gulf! Ho! Ha!"

Meanwhile, as he muttered on, cursing, bellowing, puffing, threatening, he had been wiping
his face with the wet cloth, as though the cool touch of it relieved the biting agony within
him. Now he strode toward the door, thrusting his big hands into his sash, in a demeanor of
determined resolution. Rosario rushed in front of him, an expression of horror written on her
face. A flash of her mad passion for Tonet had come back to her. She was afraid he was to be
killed. "Wait, Pascualo! Wait! It may be all a lie! I may have been deceived! You know how
people talk! And Tonet is your brother!"

But the Rector smiled in a cold sinister way. "I've heard enough from you. And you're right.
I know you're right! And when I'm sure, I'm sure. And you're scared because you know I'm right,
too. And you're afraid for your Tonet, aren't you! You love him, don't you! Well, yes, and
I love Dolores, in spite of everything! Remember, whatever I do, that that girl has got me
here, here, and I shall never get the stab of it out of my heart. But you're going to see,
Rosario, and this whole town is going to see, how Pascualo el llanut goes about things like this!"

"No, Pascualo, no," begged Rosario, seizing him by his powerful hands. "Wait ... not to-night
... to-morrow ... some other day!"

"Oh, I know what you are thinking about! You know where Tonet is to-night! But don't worry.
You're right! Not to-night! Not to-night! Besides, I've left my knife at home. And I'm not
going to kill them with my teeth! But for God's sake, get out of my way, woman. A fellow can't
breathe in here!" And he brushed Rosario aside with a rude thrust, and dashed out into the dark.

The Rector's first sensation on finding himself alone was one of relief and pleasure, as though
he had just escaped from a furnace. And he breathed deeply and deliciously of the cold breeze
that was growing noticeably stronger. Not a star was shining now. The sky was overcast, and
Pascualo, in spite of his situation, with the instinct of a sailor, first took account of the
weather. "Bad day to-morrow!" he commented. Then the sea and the storm passed from his mind.
He began to walk, and he walked and walked, moving his legs mechanically, indifferent to direction,
hardly knowing that he was walking, though each footstep seemed to ring in his brain with a
grating irritating echo. He was as unconscious, almost, as he had been back there in Tenet's
cabin after his fall. He was asleep, but standing up, and his feet going, in a dream, but going
rapidly, in spite of the paralysis of all his senses. He did not notice that he was walking
round and round over the same streets.

Then a feeling came back to him, and again it was one of pleasure. How nice it was to be walking
around in the dark over roads that would seem too ugly to be worth while by daylight! It was
the fugitive's joy in the desert, where he is free from human beings and under the protecting
wing of solitude. There, in the distance, was a glimmer of light. A drinking place, probably!
And he turned, all a-tremble, in the opposite direction, as though a danger lay that way. Oh,
if some one should see him! He would die of shame. The most insignificant "cat" would be too
much for him! No, silence, darkness, to be alone, was all he wanted!

So he walked the streets of the village and then down on the beach, which also seemed to terrify
him. "God, how those fishermen must have been making fun of me!" Probably all the boats there
were in the secret and when they creaked it was their way of laughing at the wool they saw
on the eyes of the Mayflower's captain! Occasionally he would awaken from the torpor in which
he was wandering doggedly from place to place. One time he came to himself just long enough
to see that he was boarding his boat. At another, he found himself on his own door-step with
his hand about to raise the latch. No, somewhere else, somewhere else. A moment's quiet and
calm! There would be time for that, later! In the end, shocks like these gradually roused him
from his anguished abstraction.

No, he would never put up with it! Never! People were going to find out what sort of a man
the Rector was! But after all, it wasn't necessary to be too hard on Dolores. She was running
true to form--a real daughter of tio Paella, drunkard that he had been, patron and agent of
the girls in the Fishmarket section, talking around his house as though Dolores were some member
of his "flock"! What could she ever have learned from a man like that! To be a bad girl, that's
all, and no decency whatever. And that was how, just how, she had turned out! But you couldn't
blame her, could you? The real one to blame was he himself, great fool that he had been, ever
to think of marrying a woman who had to be just what Dolores was!

Hadn't siñá Tona always said so? Mother saw through her from the start, and had never wanted
a girl of tio Paella's in the family. A bad woman, Dolores, granted! But he couldn't talk very
loud if he had married her with his eyes open. But Tonet! What could you find to say for him!
Disgracing your own brother! Who ever heard of monstrousness like that! Your own brother! No,
you cut the heart out of a beast of that kind!

But scarcely had his blood-thirsty schemes of vengeance taken shape in his mind, that old habits
of thinking had their say. There was Rosario reminding him that Tonet was his brother! Wasn't
it just as monstrous for a brother to kill a brother as to betray him? One such case in the
history of the world--Cain, and what sort of a chap had Cain been? Not much, to judge by what
don Santiago said of him! And then again, was Tonet really to blame? "No, Pascualo! You're
to blame yourself, and nobody else. I see it all clear as day. You robbed Tonet of his sweetheart.
That boy and Dolores were lovers before you even thought of speaking to a girl of tio Paella's!
Now that was a mean trick, come to think of it! Marry your brother's promised bride! As rotten
a thing as ever I did! And so, what else could you expect? There they are together all the
time--as had to be, brother-in-law, sister-in-law--and both in the family. Well, could you
expect them not to fall in love again?"

He stopped in his tracks for a moment, so obvious, so crushing, did the sense of his own guilt
come back to him. He looked around. It was the beach, there, under his feet; and a few steps
away was the tavern of his mother. The blackening rotting boat, rising from the reed enclosures
around it, called up a flood of memories from the past. There they had played together, he
and Tonet, running about over the sands. Tonet was on his shoulder, pulling at his hair in
angry petulant disgust at not having his own way. Just inside those walls, the old stateroom,
and the warm quilt thrown over the two of them! How tenderly he had cared for his little brother,
his comrade in poverty, who had rested his little brown head sometimes on his very cheek! Yes,
Rosario had been right. His brother! More than that, his child! For it was he, really, more
than siñá Tona, who had been a loving parent to the boy, spoiling him, slaving for him! "And
now, I'm going to kill him! God, what beast would commit a crime like that?" No, he would forgive
Tonet. Why be a Christian otherwise? Why, otherwise, believe in all the things don Santiago
talked about?

The absolute solitude of the seashore, the darkness as black as the night before Creation,
the complete aloofness from every human being, brought a touch of sweetness back into that
travailing spirit, with the impulse toward forgiveness. Pascualo was recovering to a new life.
It seemed as though another being were inside him, and thinking for him. Anguish had put an
edge on his intelligence. God was his only companion in that loneliness. With God he would
have to reckon. And did God care if a man found his wife unfaithful? What a small detail that
must seem to a Being as great as that! Just like a pair of rats down there on earth! No, much
more important it must seem to God for a fellow to be good, and not answer treason with murder
... murder!

Slowly the Rector turned back toward the Cabañal. How much better he felt, now! The cold breeze,
rapidly growing stronger, had found a way into the furnace within him. But how weak and faint
he felt! He had not eaten a mouthful since breakfast the day before. And his nose must have
been broken by the fall, it pained him so! One! Two! A church bell rang in the distance. Two
o'clock! What a night! And how it had flown! But the hours still to pass before morning would
probably seem much longer!

As the Rector reached the road, he heard a boy's voice begin to sing. Some "cat" on the way
to his boat. In fact, there the youngster was, on the other sidewalk, with two oars on his
shoulder and a roll of nets under his arm.

The sight of the boy upset him again. Now the Rector understood that there were two Rectors
under that one hide of his. One of them was the usual man he had always been--good-natured,
taciturn, with kindly feelings for everybody. The other, a beast that began to roar and claw
inside him at the thought of being deceived, and which snarled for blood in the presence of
betrayal. And Pascualo laughed a shrill high-strung laugh! Pardon! Forgiveness! What a cowardly
whimperer that other Rector was! See how the imbecile had sniffled at a lot of humbug memories
back there near the tavern of siñá Tona! Lanudo! Just the name for a coward like that! Fine
sentiments those had been to justify a man without the guts to protect his own dignity as a
man! Such stuff might do very well for don Santiago! It was a curate's job to find pretty words
and say them. But he was a sailor, thank God, with the life of a young bull in him; and if
anybody tried funny business on him, by God, he would get what was coming to him, with some
to boot. Lanudo! Coward!

And ashamed in his own eyes for his past weakness, the skipper began to thump his fists on
his chest, swearing at himself in his other ridiculous personality, where he was so good-natured
and easy-going. Forgiveness! Forgiveness might be all right in a graveyard. But he was living
in a village where people were alive and knew each other. In a few hours they would be up and
out on the streets, walking past him as that "cat" had just walked past, but nudging each other
at sight of him and whispering: "There goes Pascualo el llanut!" Never! Ch--st, he would die
first! His mother hadn't brought him into the world to be the butt of the whole Cabañal. First,
Tonet! And then Dolores! And then every damned man who got in his way. And then--well, then,--what
were jails for, anyway, but for men worth the salt they eat! And if it was worse than jail
... ready for that, too. He might die at sea sometime, anyhow. Well, suppose they did squeeze
his gullet up there on a scaffold! He would be dying like a sailor with good boards under his
feet. And they would know they were garroting a man, and not a weakling!

He broke into a run, his elbows drawn in, and his head lowered, roaring as though he were running
to grapple with a mortal enemy. In the dark he collided with posts and trees. But he did not
care. A mad instinct to kill, to destroy, was carrying him wildly toward his dwelling.

He tore at the latch violently, but the door was locked. He began to pound and kick and throw
himself against it, till the hinges and fastenings creaked under the blows. He opened his mouth
to shout, insult the wretches inside, call to them to come out and be killed, spit upon their
heads the terrible threats that were boiling in his feverish brain. But he could say nothing.
His tongue seemed to be paralyzed in his throat. His whole strength had gone to his hands,
that were pulling at the latch, and into his feet, that were eating into the wood of the door
with the hobnails on his boots.

And all that was not enough. He would have done anything to fill those guilty rats with terror!
And he stooped down, picked up a big stone, and hurled it with all his might into the door,
which boomed in agony and made the whole house tremble.

Then silence! The Rector thought he heard several windows in the neighborhood opening cautiously
at the uproar. He wanted vengeance, but he didn't have to make the whole town laugh in the
meantime! A sense of the absurdity of the situation came over him--the thought of himself storming
out there in the street while the lovers were inside quite comfortable. What a clown he would
be if he were seen! He ran off around the corner of the house and crouched there in hiding.
There was talking for a time and some laughter. Then the windows were closed again, and the
street relapsed into complete silence.

The Rector had good eyes, trained to seeing far into the darkest nights. From his corner, the
door of the house was quite visible. There he would stay till the sun came up, if need be.
He would wait for his brother! His brother? No, for that dog of a Tonet! When the wretch came
out ... what a pity his knife wasn't handy! But he could kill him somehow, either strangle
him, or perhaps pound his head in with a stone. Afterwards, he would go in and fix the woman,
rip her open with the butcher-knife, or something of the sort. There was time to think of that.
Something better, even, might occur to him while he was waiting.

Crouching at his corner there, the Rector began to think of all the tortures he had ever heard
of, gloating over each new marvel of cruelty as he applied it, in foretaste, to the guilty
pair, finally coming down to burning them alive on the open beach over a slow fire made of
timber from the old boats. But how cold it was getting to be! And how sick he was feeling!
The mad rage that had come over him at sight of the "cat" was passing, leaving him in a condition
of general weakness and lassitude. He could barely lift his hand. The dampness of the night
was getting into his bones, and his empty stomach gave him waves of nausea. Suffering did take
hold of a fellow! How sick! How sick! Another reason for killing that pair of good-for-nothings!
In the end they would finish him with worry and pain! He had grown old over night. It had all
happened since sundown. And there he was, a strong man, unable to lift a finger!

One! Two! Three! Three o'clock! How time dragged on. But he did not move from his ambush, though
he felt his limbs stiffening and his brain begin to fag. The thoughts of dire punishments had
passed from his mind. That, indeed, had become a blank. What was he doing there? He couldn't
quite remember at times--all his energies were so centered in his eyes, which not for a second
even left that door of his house.

Half-past three had long since tolled when the Rector thought he heard the slight grating of
a latch, and saw his door swing open. A form appeared on the threshold and stayed there for
a second or two, as though the person were studying the street in both directions to see if
any one were watching. There was another squeak, and a slight thud as the door closed. The
Rector stood painfully up, his joints quite numb from the cold. At last his time had come!
And he dashed forward on the run.

But the figure in front of the door was supported on a pair of wonderful legs. When it saw
another man approaching, it gave one bound and went tearing off down the street. Early risers
in the houses along the road heard the clatter of racing footsteps on the brick sidewalks as
the pursuit swept by, a panting heart-breaking chase in the dark. The Rector could see a white
spot in front of him, the pack of clothing the fugitive was carrying over his shoulder; but
despite his best efforts, he realized that clew would soon be lacking; for the distance between
him and his intended victim opened wider at every yard. Those bandy legs of his were just the
thing to walk a deck in bad weather, but on the racetrack!... Besides, that wait there hadn't
done him any good, and Tonet had been famous as a runner when he was a little boy. At a crossroad,
in fact, the white pack had vanished into void. Pascualo went hunting through the streets on
either side, but he could not find even a footprint.

People were beginning to be up and about in the Cabañal, men, for the most part, who had work
to do on the shore. And the Rector himself now fled, in terror at the thought that some one
might see him. There was nothing left to be done now. He had lost all hope of vengeance. And
shivering with cold, too weak to think even, resigned to whatever fate should have in store
for him, he made his way toward the beach. Things were already stirring about the boats there.
The dark sands were flecked all along with lanterns as the sailors went about their work. And
here was another light--from the door of the tavern-boat. Roseta had just taken down the wooden
shutter over the counter and she could be seen through the opening, wrapped in a shawl, her
halo of blonde curly hair shooting rebellious strands out from under the kerchief over her
head. She was still but half awake, and her face was pinched and blue from the cold. She was
on the lookout for early customers, and a bottle of brandy with glasses was out on the board.
Siñá Tona was still asleep in her stateroom. Knowing hardly what he was about, Pascualo turned
in that direction, and did not stop till his elbow was on the counter.

"Give us a glass!" But Roseta, instead of obeying him, stood there looking at him with bright
though expressionless eyes that seemed to penetrate to the innermost of his spirit. The Rector
winced. That girl! That girl! What a keen one! She had caught everything at a glance! And the
skipper, to get out of his hole, fell back on violence. "Good God! Have you got ears on your
head? Give me a glass, I said." And a glass, for that matter, he really needed, to dispel the
mortal lethargy that had settled on his whole body. A sober man he was! But he would drink,
and drink and drink till he was drunk, and drown his torpor in alcohol!

And he downed a glass. And then another, and still a third, one gulp to each. His sister passed
the drinks across the counter, but her eyes were still fixed upon him, as though she could
read everything that had happened written out on his features in black and white. But he was
feeling better, so much better! Nothing like aguardiente, to brace a fellow up! The damp chill
of morning seemed to be burning off, all of a sudden, and a pleasant tingling began to run
up and down just under his skin. The humor of the situation caught him now. How funny he must
have looked beating it down the street as though the devil were after him, puffing like a porpoise!
And then the world took on a rosy hue. He must be a good fellow, love everybody, and beginning
with that girl there, his sister, who, for her part, had not taken her eyes off him once.

"Yes, why not tell the truth! You're the real credit to our family, Roseta girl! The rest of
us? Hogs, hogs, beginning with me! Me! No, Roseta, you're all there--something nice, delicate-like,
about you. You see through things, with the cleverest of them. But you say things--oh, I don't
know--you say things, diplomatic-like, so's they don't come down on a fellow like a thousand
of brick! Oh, I remember, I do! On the way home through the Grao, that day! Other people, they
just rub it in, till you're ready to damn your soul. But it's what you've got up here, up here!
Brains you've got, brains! You were right all these years. Scamps and puddingheads, puddingheads
and scamps! And you're going at it right, I say. You keep the men away. You don't slobber all
over them, and then lie to them, and make donkeys of them, and ruin them. No, you're a real
girl, Roseta, better than the best of them."

With that liquid fire on his empty stomach, the Rector grew more and more emphatic as he talked
on. His arms began to gesticulate, and his voice rose and rose, till his words were audible
yards away.

"Is that you, Pascualo?" The call came from behind the curtains in Siñá Tona's stateroom, hoarse
and halting, but affectionate withal.

"Yes, ma, it's me. Just going down to the boat to see what's going on. I wouldn't get up, just
yet, if I were you. Going to be bad weather!"

In fact, daylight was now breaking, and along the horizon where the water darkened to a strip
of black, another band, of faint livid light, was stretching. The sky was still overcast, and
a thick fog was coming up the shore, softening the edges on trees and boats and houses, dimly
visible in the brightening twilight.

"Well, one more glass, and that will do." And the Rector passed a calloused hand over his sister's
cold cheek. "Good-by, girl! But remember what I say, you're the only decent woman in the Cabañal.
It's your brother talking, Roseta. The only decent woman in the Cabañal, yes! And if a man
asks you to marry him, say 'no,' say 'no.'"

Pascualo was whistling unconcernedly as he sauntered up to the Mayflower. You would have thought
him the happiest man on earth, but for the yellowish glitter in his eyes, that seemed to be
bulging from their sockets in his red face flushed with alcohol. In a conspicuous position
on deck, and standing up full height to advertise the fact that he was there, Tonet was in
full view--at his feet the white pack that had just been having such a dance of it through
the dark streets of the Cabañal.

"Hello, Pascualo!" he called, the moment he spied his brother, at much pains apparently to
start a conversation and dispel any suspicion the Rector might have. And could you beat that
for impudence, the sneaking weasel! But before the Rector, who felt all the wild rage of a
few hours previous boiling up anew, could answer, a crowd of sailors and skippers came running
up. "What do you think of it, Pascualo?" they were calling. "Going to blow, do you think?"
And they gathered around him, but without taking their eyes off the horizon. There was a scowl
in that sky! Crazy to think of going out! And just their luck! Of course, it had to come then,
when the fish were as thick as fleas outside, and you could pick them up with your hands! But
after all, a man's hide is of more account than a dollar! They all agreed. Dirty weather ahead!
Nothing to do but stick to cover.

But not so Pascualo. "Stick to cover, eh! Well, you fellows can stay ashore if you want to,
and twirl your fingers. I'm going out, and right now. I never saw a blow yet that would keep
me home, when I'd made up my mind to go. The woman folks ought to stay at home. But I like
to see men and not cowards in the fish business." He spoke in a tone of voice that did not
seem to invite argument, and as though the suggestion of his staying in had veiled an insult.
He turned his back on the skippers around, to get away from them, get away from everybody,
who might know, and ... laugh! "Into the water with her, boys!" And the oxen came out of the
barn and down toward the shore. "Hey, Flor de Mayo there! Overboard, all hands, and get the
skids down!"

The men in the crew obeyed their orders as they were trained to do, unquestioningly. Only tio
Batiste raised a voice of protest, and he spoke with his full authority as a bull-dog of the sea.

"God, man, where are your eyes this morning! Don't you see the wind off there! Blowing like
hell, man alive!"

"Oh, that ain't wind, that's rain, agüelo! No, no, it's going to settle down to raining. An
hour or two of chop, perhaps, but not enough to make a chicken sea-sick!"

"Well, it's rain or it's wind. But if it's wind, the way it looks from here, it's all day with
the man that gets into it!"

"Oh, go along home, tio," the Rector snapped with a rudeness he had never used toward that
old salt before. "There's a job up at the church for you, janitor or something. This boat is
no place for cowards nor for invalids!"

"Coward, is it? Coward, eh? I've been to Havana twice in a fifty-footer, belly of a sick whale!
And on the rocks twice, in weather that would make you blue in the gills! By God, take twenty
years off this back of mine, and I'd rip you up the front for saying that, the way I would
a codfish! But into the water she goes, boys! When the captain speaks, it ain't for the likes
of me to raise a voice. Into the water with her, boys, and to hell with her!" And the furious
old sailor was through grumbling in time to help lay the last skid before the Mayflower's bow
touched the surf. Another pair of oxen was already pulling at the boat that was to go team
with the Rector's newer craft; and in a few moments both vessels had raised their huge lateen
sails, and were dashing fast through the outer breakers with every stitch of canvas drawing.

The skippers ashore stood looking on perplexedly. The Rector's outfit was now well out to sea,
and jealousy began to rage within them. That lanudo had gone mad! The idea of putting to sea
in the teeth of a threat like that! But he had his eye on the market! Making a clean-up, eh?
While they were standing around with their hands in their pockets! It angered them, this selfish
impudence, as though the Rector were out to catch all the fish left in the sea. The boldest
and most jealous took the lead. "Well, sir, where he can go, I can go! Does he think he's the
only man that can sail a boat around here? Haul her out, Chepa, haul her out, and be quick
about it!"

The challenge was taken up all along the shore. "Boyero! Boyero!" Everybody began calling for
the oxen at once, and the drivers did not know which way to turn. The madness of the Rector
seemed to spread like wildfire from one end of the beach to the other. The women ashore began
to shriek and protest at seeing their men go out in the face of the dread east wind. Curse
that skinflint Rector! Better stay home and watch his wife! Did he want to drown everybody
in the Cabañal? Siñá Tona, in her underclothing, her thin gray hair undone and blowing in the
wind, came running down to the water's edge. They had told her what the Rector had been up
to. She had jumped out of bed to stop him.

"Pascualet!" she called. "Pascualet! Fill meu, torna, torna! Come back, come back!" But the
two boats were already far, far, offshore.

And the poor woman, knowing that they could not hear her voice, began to wail and tear her
hair, crying to God and to the saints in heaven! "Maria santísima! He is going to his death,
the death of him, I say! Reina y soberana! Both my boys, and the little one, too!" What a curse
had settled on her family! That pig of a sea would swallow them all, as it had killed her husband!

And the other women joined in her lamentation. But the men worked on in sullen frowning silence,
unable to resist the jealous rivalry that was hurling them into the jaws of death in their
relentless struggle for bread. They splashed out into the surf, till the water reached their
belts. They climbed aboard their boats, and raised the sails. And soon a line of great white
wings was vanishing into the mist, madly rushing seaward through the white caps, under a sky
already lowering with tempest and black with the scowl of fateful augury.

CHAPTER X

"AND STILL THEY SAY FISH COMES HIGH!"

Four hours later the Mayflower was off Sagunto in the channel which tio Batiste, with his habit
of judging more from the bottom than from landmarks on shore, was tracing between the Roca
del Puig and the kelp grounds of Murviedro. Not a boat had dared go so far from home that day.
The rest of the fleet could be dimly seen, strung out on the horizon in a wide arc from in
front of Valencia to the offings of Cullera. The sky was a leaden gray; the sea a deep purple,
turning to an ebony black in the troughs of the waves. The wind came in a succession of long
frigid squalls that whipped the sails about and whistled through the rigging. The Mayflower
and its running mate kept on, however, under full sail, dragging the bòu-net that was getting
heavier and heavier from minute to minute.

The Rector was posted astern, at the tiller, heading the Mayflower into the menacing gusts,
more from instinct than anything else; for his eyes were not on the water. They were fixed
on Tonet, who had been trying to avoid their piercing gaze ever since the boat left shore.
At times they would shift to little Pascualet, who was standing rigid at the foot of the mast,
throwing his diminutive chest out in challenge to that sea, which, on his second voyage, was
beginning to show its temper. The Mayflower was now pitching heavily as the waves came stronger
and stronger; but the sailors sauntered casually back and forth about their work, as if nothing
unusual were going on, though a false step would have thrown them overboard.

The Rector looked from Tonet to the boy and from the boy to Tonet. An expression of doubt gradually
changing to conviction was written on his face, as he compared them feature by feature, minutely.
No, Rosario had not deceived him. Where had his eyes been all those years not to have noticed
the astonishing resemblance? And Pascualo's face grew paler and paler under its deep sunburn;
his eyes were blood-shot as they had been the night before, and he pressed his lips tightly
together to hold in the angry words that were tingling on his tongue and gathering in his throat.
God, how people must have been laughing at him! Look at the boy! The very same face, the very
same ways! Who could mistake them? Pascualet was little Tonet all over again, the frail nervous
child he had tended like a nurse-maid in the tavern-boat. No, that was Tonet's boy, no use
denying it, the living, visible proof of his dishonor! And as this conclusion settled deeper
in the skipper's mind, he tore at the flesh through his open shirt front, and frowned with
sullen animosity at the water, the boat, and the sailors, who kept looking at him out of the
corners of their eyes, wondering why the captain was in such a black temper, though it was
owing probably to the weather.

And why should he go on slaving like a dog? To earn money for that wench of a woman who had
been making a public fool of him all this time? And create a future for Pascualet, leave him
the richest fisherman in the Cabañal? No, no, no! There was nothing left for him to live for.
Die, then, and take with him to destruction all he had been working for! and the Mayflower,
his other child, that he talked to as he would have to a daughter--yes, her, too, away with
her, and perish with her the very memory of the sweet hopes and dreams that had gone into the
building of her. He wished to God that one of those big waves, instead of filling under the
boat's bow and throwing her rudely about on its foaming crest, would open underneath her keel
and let her drop to the bottom.

A signal came from the Mayflower's teammate. The net was dragging so heavy now from the huge
catch inside that the boats were making scarcely any headway. Wasn't it about time to haul
her in? Pascualo smiled bitterly! What the devil did he care! Certainly, haul her in when you
please! The crew began pulling at the cable that stretched from the lower edge of the net to
either boat, and they pulled and pulled joyously. In spite of the wet weather and the back-breaking
exertion, Tonet and the sailors were in great glee. This was something like a haul! A hundredweight
at every foot!

But tio Batiste, from his place on the tip of the bow, where every dash of spray was reaching
him, gave a sudden call:

"Look, Pascualo, Pascualo! Look! There she comes! There she comes!"

The old fisherman was pointing to the horizon, where the leaden mantle of cloud seemed to be
condensing into a blackish vapor. The Rector had been watching the men hauling at the net.
The little boy and Tonet happened to be standing side by side, and the resemblance between
them was more striking than ever.

"Pascualo, man alive! Pascualo!"

"What's up!" the Rector answered, coming to himself.

"The hurricane! It's coming! It's on top of us!"

The mass of black was driving rapidly nearer, and spreading out as it advanced. Overhead a
livid flash of lightning seemed to rend the sky in twain, and the thunder crashed, as though
a huge piece of canvas had been ripped asunder. And a moment after, the levante itself, that
dread easterly gale that never blows in the Gulf of Valencia but with the breath of doom!

As the tornado struck the Mayflower, the vessel went over on her beam ends as though a giant
hand had seized her by the keel and were trying to roll her over. The water came up over the
lee rail almost to the hatches. The great lateen sail was flat on the sea like a sheet. Then
as the vessel righted partly, down again, and again!

All this was the work of an instant. The first tremendous blast of the hurricane had caught
the sail full, and about capsized the boat. But tio Batiste and the Rector scrambled along
the almost perpendicular deck to the mast, loosened the peak-halyards and let the yard down.
Freed from the pressure of the sail, the Mayflower came back to an even keel with the next
wave. But Pascualo had had to let go the tiller, and the boat was wallowing in the trough,
spinning round and round like a top in the boiling waters. The Rector was crawling back to
the helm, with the idea of putting the Mayflower's head to the wind. She would not come round,
however. The heavy net now held her fast by the stern, though a moment before it had kept the
vessel from foundering by acting as a counter to the violent pulling of the sail.

The skipper looked around for his running mate. She came booming down the wind, dismasted,
her sail overboard, her stern to the blow. She had cut loose from the net to keep from going
over and was being tossed to leeward by the gale. The waves piled up behind her steep as walls,
the tops blowing off every one of them and crashing down on her decks in a deafening roar.
But she had done well, all the same. The Mayflower, too, must get free from the seine, and
try to make Valencia. A knife was laid to the cable. It snapped at the next pitch of the vessel,
which, with the tiller hard down, came round into the wind. The sail had slipped down to the
deck, the cross-boom sticking within easy reach of the hand. But that bit of canvas caught
the hurricane with tremendous force, bending the mast threateningly and giving considerable
headway to the Mayflower, which was taking every comber over forward.

In that critical extremity the Rector became his real self again. "All hands, attention! Obey
orders, and be quick about it. We've got to come about!" That was the supreme moment. If one
of those water-mountains caught her abeam, it would all be over in a second. Pascualo, upright,
his feet glued to the deck, had his eyes on the waves ahead, studying every comber carefully
as it swept toward the vessel. He was looking for a smooth one among those driving ridges of
water--some pocket in the gale, which would enable him to swing around without turning turtle.

"Now, now, now ... ah ... ah ... ah!"

The Mayflower veered like a shot, sank into a great yawning chasm between two smooth but almost
perpendicular walls, and she had her stern to windward just as the next huge breaker came,
lifting the whole vessel aft, shoving her nose under forward, and tossing her to leeward as
with a mighty punch in the back. Trembling, staggering, she broke free. The crew, catching
their breath from the terror of the moment, looked out after the great green mountain as it
passed on. They saw it curve in a somber arch of emerald over the other craft, dismantled,
that was drifting helpless before the storm. The enormous comber broke, like a mine exploding,
with cataracts of foam, and water thrown on high in columns. And when the giant, literally
blown to pieces by the gale, had disappeared, to be followed by other billows just as noisy
and just as high, the surface of the sea was bare, save for a piece of timber and a barrel
with the head gone.

"Requiescat in pace!" tio Batiste murmured crossing himself and lowering his head. Tonet and
the two sailors, pale and haggard, answered instinctively: "Amen!"

"Pare! Pare!" Pascualet was calling in terror, pointing toward the bow. The other "cat," his
comrade, had been there when the Mayflower started to plunge. Now he was gone! The great Destroyer
had swept him overboard, and no one had seen! Panic seized on the crew, in that ghastly moment
of supreme peril. The deafening thunder claps followed one on the heels of the other. Chain-lightning
hissed and snapped close by in all directions over the leaden sky, snakes of fire that seemed
to be darting into the water to quench their flaming entrails; and the bangs of thunder came,
some of them short, crackling like the roll of musketry; others deep, prolonged, booming. The
rain was coming down in a torrential cascade, as though the sky were trying to fill up the
valleys in the sea and make its power more violent.

But the Rector took the crew in hand. "God, have we sailors or women aboard here? And you came
from the Cabañal, and are afraid of a bit of sea! You'd think you fellows had never been offshore!
This isn't going to last. These easterlies are always freakish things! But anyhow! What's the
use of getting scared? It's a sailor's place to die at sea! I always said so: sooner a lobster
than a mumbling parson and the worms! Pull yourselves together, boys. And lash yourselves to
something. The boat's all right. Just don't get washed overboard!"

Tio Batiste and the two sailors knotted the ends of their sashes around the mast. Tonet tied
the little boy securely to a ring astern; but seeing that his brother, for a show of bravado,
had sat down beside the tiller free, he crouched at the railing, bracing himself against a
chock on the deck. A funereal silence settled on the Mayflower. The sea was now in such commotion
that the kelp on the bottom showed its streamers in the troughs of the waves. The crests of
foam were turning a dirty yellow from the mud stirred up. Spray, rain, bits of seaweed, lashed
the faces and hands of the sailors cruelly. They were all now soaked to the skin.

As the vessel rose to the crests, the keel half out of water aft, the Rector could see other
boats from the Cabañal in the distance, vanishing in the mists of the horizon. They were all
running with poles virtually bare, scudding before the wind for shelter, though it would be
much more dangerous making port than to hold to the open sea. And the claws of remorse sank
deep into Pascualo's heart. He seemed to be awakening from a horrible dream. That night of
horror passed in the streets of the village! Those four glasses of brandy at the tavern! That
argument with the men on shore, and his impulse to put to sea! Could he have been guilty of
all that? A more criminal wretch he was than the pair who had betrayed him. If he had been
tired of life, he could have tied a rock around his neck and jumped off the Breakwater! But
what right had he to drive all those innocent boys to death? What would the people at home
say of him? It was his fault that half the fishermen had gone out in the very teeth of the
gale that morning! And then, his other boat! Every soul aboard her lost, and because they had
obeyed his orders like true fishermen! And how many other vessels had met the same fate? There
was deep shame on his face as he looked at tio Batiste and the two sailors, lashed to the mast
there and whipped and bleeding in the storm! He did not choose to look at his brother nor at
Pascualet. Little it mattered if they should die--for at thought of them the thirst for vengeance
flamed in him anew. But the other two, sons of mothers, old and dependent on them for support,
and tio Batiste, who had survived so many dangers through all those years! Those surely he
had no right to kill! And the sight of the three men crouching there on the wet deck, the ropes
cutting into their flesh as they held on, half stunned under the buffets that rained upon them
like hammer blows, drove all sense of his own danger from the Rector's mind. He scarcely noticed
the waves that came splashing up around him. Nothing seemed able to stir that huge frame of
his, but an anguish had reentered his soul sharper and more racking than that of the night
before. He must live, save himself, leave his personal affairs for later settlement, but meanwhile
get those men ashore, get those men ashore, all of them, and not add to the burden that the
lost "cat" and the crew of his other boat had put upon his conscience.

The Rector centered his whole mind on the handling of the Mayflower. No need for worry just
at present. That hull would stand any sea and they did not have to buck the storm. But how
get into the harbor? That was the crucial effort in which so many came to grief. Ahead, just
visible through the rain, the spray and the mist, the Breakwater could already be seen, its
back looming above the water like a whale driven aground by the gale. How double that projecting
point?

From succeeding crests the skipper studied the rocks that were churning in a hell of surf,
and his heart sank within him at thought of the struggle ahead. Not another sail was in sight.
Many boats, perhaps, had gotten in. The rest were already lost On top of the Breakwater, many,
many black points, people, probably, who had come, crazy with fear, to watch the ghastly combat
between man and the elements.

All the Cabañal had started down to the giant wall of red rocks as the first crashes of the
storm had broken; and the people, indifferent to the breakers that might easily sweep them
off, had gathered on the point in front of the lighthouse, as though their presence there might
be of some help to their dear ones in the fight to enter the harbor. Under the torrential downpour
women kept coming on the run, the rain biting at their faces, the gale washing their skirts
about and whistling in their ears. And they stood there on the rocks, their shawls soaked through,
praying, screaming, raising their hands to heaven. Men in oil skins and sea boots came hurrying
along the shore, jumping from stone to stone, stopping many times, when they reached the Breakwater,
to let a wave go by as it leapt over that obstruction into the inner harbor, leaving the red
granite shining with the angry sweat of the tempest.

On the farthest projection of the jetty, where the storm surf was dashing highest against the
outer rocks, stood Dolores, bareheaded, her face pale, clinging to siñá Tona, who was wild
with anguish for her boy, her Pascualet, who was still out there! And the two women, with others
also, cursed heaven with the foulest blasphemies, afterwards, suddenly, to bow their heads,
crossing their hands over their breasts, and suppliantly promising masses, candles, offerings,
to the Virgin of Rosario and the Holy Christ of the Grao, addressing those miraculous beings
pleadingly, intimately, as though the divinities were present in the flesh there before them.
Dolores finally drew her shawl about her and crouched for shelter behind the outermost rock,
the wash from the surf climbing up around her legs, but her eyes she held seaward with the
fixed motionless stare of a sphinx. On a stone farther back tia Picores towered on high with
her massive bony frame. Anger writhing at her mouth, and her fists clenched in threat, she
faced the sea with the sublimity of a tragic witch, insulting the wild turmoil with the gibes
of the Fishmarket: "Pig of a sea! Streetwalker! Sow! They call you a woman, but you're a man,
I say!"

The rain came in horizontal sheets before the gale, which caught individuals not clinging to
their neighbors and tossed them around like reeds. All the anxious watchers were wet to the
skin and their clothes clung dripping to their bodies; but absorbed in the enthralling horror
of the spectacle, they were unconscious of the chill that was beginning to make their teeth
chatter. A curse on the Rector's head! That cuckold was to blame for everything! He was the
one responsible for the fleet's going out. It would serve him right if he never got in! And
Dolores and siñá Tona caught such angry words, and lowered their heads in shame under public
condemnation.

But one by one the boats rounded the Breakwater, cheered by the crowd, and greeted by sobs
and cries of joy from the families of the crews who ran off toward the Grao to meet their men.
Soon so many of them were in that the throng of the Breakwater was noticeably smaller. The
harbor entrance had turned to a veritable hell of wind and wave and whirlpool. Three boats
were still in sight, and for an hour, while the people ashore stood gripped in maddening suspense,
they tacked and veered in the hurricane, struggling against the dread currents that kept sweeping
them down the coast. At last they, too, got in, and a great sigh of relief and satisfaction
rose from the crowd.

But it was then that the black horizon was suddenly cleft by another speck. A boat was driving
shoreward in mad career though a mere shred of canvas was visible at the foot of the bare pole
The sailors who had crept out to the most exposed rocks and were lying there on their stomachs
to offer least exposure to the wind and waves, looked at one another despairingly. Too late,
they all agreed. That straggler would be the blood offering to the sea! Impossible to enter now!

Sharp eyes soon made out the identity of the craft. Flor de Mayo! Flor de Mayo! The boat came
on, now swallowed in the deep trough, now rearing on the crests of the combers. Siñá Tona and
Dolores began to shriek and scream like mad. They seemed bent on rushing out into the water,
and actually tried to reach one of the sea-swept boulders that stood out in the surf like heads
of giants peering above the turmoil. And the sympathy and sorrow that misfortune brings to
multitudes now turned to the two women. Curses at the Rector ceased. Sailors gathered round
them with assurances that everything would be all right, though some of the men, foreseeing
the inevitable end of the ghastly battle, tried to prevent them from looking on. And so an
hour passed. A sight to turn your hair white!

Pascualo, out at sea, felt the need of encouragement in his anxiety. And he called to tio Batiste.

"You know the Gulf, tio," he shouted. "What do you think of the looks of things?"

But the old man, awakening with a start from his chill and torpor, shook his head sadly, and
on the face above his white goatee the resignation of glorious, fearless manhood was written.
No, in an hour it would be all over! No crossing the tide-rip in a sea like that. You could
take his word for that! In all his life he had never seen such a wind! But the Rector felt
the strength for anything within him. "Well, if we can't get in, we'll hold offshore, by God!
and ride her out!" "No, you can't do that. There's going to be two days of it, at least. The
boat might stand the seas, but you can't beat against this blow. If you try to coast along,
you'll strike at Cullera, and if you get by there, you'll fetch up on the Cape. No, the one
chance is running in. If it's dying, let's die near home, where so many of the boys have died,
and in sight of the Christ of the Grao!" And tio Batiste, hitching around in the leashes that
held him to the mast, got one hand into his shirt front, drew out a tarnished crucifix of bronze,
and kissed it devoutly over and over again.

The old man's voice seemed to put spirit into the other men. "Cristo! a pretty time for parson
stuff!" Tonet jeered with a sepulchral laugh, and the two sailors began to curse at the old
man with blasphemous obscenities. Danger, instead of crushing them, seemed to translate despair
into raving impiety. The skipper shrugged his shoulders indifferently. A good Christian he
was! If you didn't believe it, ask don Santiago. But he knew one thing, that the only Christ
who would bring the Mayflower through that fix was Pascualo el Retor, and he might even do
the trick if the damned boat minded her helm!

The proximity of shoal water was now quite apparent on the vessel. The combers had stopped
coming in huge but fairly regular mountains from astern. A cross sea was running now, throwing
a violent nasty chop back against the wind, and the water, piled up along the shore, was tumbling
seaward in a gigantic undertow that broke to the surface in boiling seething whirlpools. The
Mayflower, every timber in her sound and solid, creaked and strained in the new turmoil of
conflicting forces. She was virtually unmanageable between the impact of the gale from astern
and the water catching at her keel from forward and abeam. But though great waves were breaking
over her from all directions, her hatches were firmly battened down, and nobly she struggled
free each time. The Rector understood, however, that, caught now in the tide-run off the Breakwater,
there was no alternative but to try for the harbor.

The people on the rocks were now in plain sight. Spray could be seen dashing over them, and
occasionally their anguished voices even reached as far as the Mayflower's deck. Recristo!
To be drowned like rats in a trap, under the very eyes of your folks, and they unable to help
you! Dog of a sea! Pig of a wind! And the Rector, to vent his impotent fury, spat at the waves,
as the vessel reared and plunged this way and that, the scuppers under, clear to the hatch,
first to starboard and then to port, the cross-yard shoving its point under at every roll.

"Look out! Look out!"

Now the death blows were beginning to come.

A wave of gray water, noiseless, and without a cap, reared above the stern, came full aboard
without breaking, covered the whole boat, sweeping over her like a cuff from a gigantic hand.
The Rector received the shock square on the back, but nothing, apparently, could loosen his
iron grip from the tiller, nor pry his feet from the deck against which they were braced. He
felt the water get deeper and deeper above his head, and a terrible groaning as if the boat
were going to pieces under the strain. Then, as he came to the surface, an object, driven along
by the wave like a cannonball, just grazed him.

It was the water-cask. The great roller had torn it from its frame, and was hurling it along
the deck, crushing everything before it. It brushed Pascualet in the face, and blood spurted
from the boy's nostrils. Then, like a giant sledge-hammer, it hurtled forward toward the foot
of the mast where tio Batiste and the two sailors were. It was all as instantaneous as it was
terrible. There was a cry. In spite of his courage in the face of terror, Pascualo could not
stand this horrifying sight. With a groan of agony he buried his face in his hands. Like a
mighty catapult, the barrel caught the youngest of the sailors on the head, and crushed him
to pulp against the mast; and then, like an assassin running away with blood streaming from
his hands, the heavy keg rolled into the scupper and overboard. Eddies of water coming along
the deck, swept the mangled headless torso against the hands and faces of the other men, and
washed blood and bits of flesh around over the planking.

Tio Batiste, his faltering lament sounding faintly through the storm, began to protest despairingly.
God, could it not soon be over! Why torment honest sailors so? They had done no harm! "Let
her go, Pascualo, let her go, for God's sake! Our time has come! Why fight and make us suffer
so long?" But the Rector was not listening. His eyes were on the mast, where he remembered
hearing that terrible groaning sound, when he was under water. And, in fact, the pole had been
fractured and was leaning alarmingly. At the peak he could still see the sheaf of grass that
had been hung up there for the christening and the bunch of dry flowers that the hurricane
was whipping about at the end of one last strand. "Pare! Pare!" Pascualet, his face covered
with blood and terrified at the catastrophe he felt impending, was calling to his father to
save him! But his father could do nothing. Keep her away from the worst one, perhaps, and prevent
her from rolling over! As for doubling the Breakwater, he had given up hope of that!

And then ... even the Rector gave a cry of terror.

The Mayflower was at the bottom of a great gully in the sea. From behind a huge roller of black
shining water was curling; and a back-wave just as high was rushing the other way. The boat
would be caught between them as they met.

It seemed minutes before it was over, though the crash was instantaneous. With a horrible crunching
and wrenching of timber, the Mayflower went down into a great boiling cauldron; and when she
came to the surface again, her deck was as level and clean as a scow's. The mast was off even
with the flooring and had gone overboard, carrying sail, men and all. The Rector thought he
saw the blanched face of tio Batiste looking up at him out of the water for a second. Then
that had gone. It was about over now!

As the Mayflower came up dismantled and helpless from her terrific ordeal, the throng on the
Breakwater gave one great groan of agony. "They're lost! They're lost!" The cry was audible
even to the men on board!

With her sail all gone, the boat no longer answered her helm. But Pascualo by frantic pulling
to and fro succeeded in keeping her from drifting sideways before the wind. A chance wave swept
the Mayflower over the rocks off the Breakwater. She did not touch, however, but drifted by
so close that the Rector could recognize faces in the throng. What anguish! Able to reach them
almost with your hand, able to hear them speak, and yet to be doomed! In a second the jetty
was far astern. They would strike on the bars off Nazaret, and perish in the sands there that
had been the graveyard of so many boats!

Tonet, who had been quite dazed by the repeated buffets from the water taken aboard, seemed
to come to himself suddenly as the boat approached the Breakwater. It was a vision of life
that gleamed in the darkness of his despair. No! He did not want to die! He would fight and
fight to the last gasp. In the alternative of certain drowning in the undertow off Nazaret
or of taking a chance among the rocks on the Breakwater, he would take the chance. Hadn't he
been famous as the best swimmer in the Cabañal?

On hands and knees, and at the risk of going overboard with the next wave, he crawled along
from the rail to a hatch that had been torn off by a recent comber. He went down into the hold.

The Rector watched him contemptuously. No, he was not sorry he had gone out after all! It had
been God's way of saving a good man from committing murder! In a few minutes he would perish
with that traitor of a brother. As for Dolores, she might live! That would be the worst punishment
for her! Was there a bigger fraud in the world than life? No--he knew what a cheat life was!
Death, death was the only honest thing, the thing that keeps all its promises and never lies!
Death and the treachery of the sea--two truths, the only two truths! For the sea lets a man
rob her! She leads him on and on, till he loves her! And then, some fine day, crash! and it's
over. And so on, from father to son, generation after generation!

Such thoughts passed in instantaneous, successive flashes through the Rector's mind, as though
the imminence of death were whetting his dull intelligence.

But, as Tonet's head came up through the hatch again, Pascualo jumped to his feet on the rolling
deck, and uttered an exclamation of surprise. His brother had something in his hands. The life-preserver--the
gift of siñá Tona to the Mayflower--which the Rector had laid away below and thereafter quite
forgotten!

Tonet did not quaver at the stare of execration his brother gave him. "What are you going to
do with that?" the Rector shouted.

"Going overboard! Every man for himself and the devil take the hindmost! Think I'm going to
drown here like a rat in a trap? No, sir, I'm going to take a chance!"

"The devil you are! You die with me, right here, and even then I don't know that we'll be square!"

In that supreme crisis, Tonet became again the harbor rowdy of his early boyhood, the ragamuffin
stranger to respect and consideration for other people. He smiled ferociously, cynically, back
at his brother.

Pale with hatred, the two men faced each other.

"Pare! Pare!" Pascualet again called faintly, tugging weakly at the lash that held him to the deck.

The Rector remembered that the child was there. Lowering, silent, grim, he let go the tiller,
drew his knife from his belt, and cut the sash about the little fellow's waist.

"And now" ... he said, "that life-belt!"

But Tonet made an obscene gesture, and started to put the jacket on.

"You dog!" Pascualo cried. "I must speak, at last, tell you what I think of you, in just two
words! You thought you had fooled me! But it was you I chased last night through the streets
of the village. You had been with that foul woman ashore there! I am not going to kill you,
because we're going to die together. But this boy here--I used to call him my Pascualet--is
not to blame. And I'm not going to let him die. He may get drowned, and that would be almost
better for him! But he must have what chance there is! That life-belt, Tonet! For your own
boy, the child of your treachery and disgrace! You're a dog, but you are also a father! Hand
it over, or I'll cut your throat!"

Tonet smiled an atrocious, cynical smile.

"I don't say he's not mine. But it's everybody for himself!"

He had the life-belt almost on, but he was not quick enough to finish. His brother was upon
him. There was a quick desperate struggle on that pitching, rolling, wave-washed deck.

Tonet fell on his back. Pascualo had sunk the knife twice into his side. The Rector's thirst
for vengeance had been assuaged!

Blind, not knowing what he was about, he adjusted the life-belt to the boy's tiny form, picked
him up like a bundle of laths, walked astern, and threw him overboard. He saw him floating
there for a second, till the crest of a great wave caught him.

It had all been the matter of minutes. The crowd on the point of the Breakwater saw the Mayflower
drifting off entirely at the mercy of the storm. The rain suddenly had ceased, and the lightning-flashes
were more distant now, though the gale still held furious, and the waves were coming even higher
than before. The sailors could not tell, quite, what was going on on deck; but they saw the
Rector throw a large bundle into the breakers, that lifted it up, and began to toss it shoreward,
toward the rocks.

There was one last cry of horror.

The Mayflower had been caught abeam by a huge breaker, and was being turned end over end. She
was seen for a second, bottom up, and then she sank, out of sight.

The women crossed themselves. Strong hands laid hold on siñá Tona and Dolores, to keep them
from leaping into the sea.

Everybody had guessed what that bundle was, floating out there toward the shore. "The boy!
The boy!" The sailors could see him now in the life-belt. But he would be smashed against the
stones. The two women were screaming for help, though not knowing how it should come nor from
whom. Could not the child at least be saved! "The boy! The boy!"

A young man volunteered. To his sash he tied a line held in the hands of the men on shore.
He jumped down to the low-lying rocks, and then farther out still, into the water. And he held
himself there, against the boiling wash, by sheer strength and adroitness.

The little body came shoreward. It was thrown up against a sharp crag and then, to the dismay
of the throng, torn loose by another wave.

At last the sailor got hold of it, as a breaker was about to dash it headlong against the wall.

Poor Pascualet! He was laid out on the muddy top of the Breakwater, his face covered with blood,
his arms and legs cold and blue, the flesh cut and torn by the sharp edges of the rocks, his
tiny form projecting from the big life-belt like a turtle from its shell. Siñá Tona tried to
warm in her hands the little head whose eyes were closed forever. Dolores was kneeling at his
side, digging her nails into her face, pulling frantically at her luxuriant beautiful hair,
her eyes, of the glints of gold, rolling vacantly, wildly, in all directions, while piercing
screams went out into space.

"Fill meu! Fill meu!"

To one side, in the crowd of weeping women, Rosario stood, the deserted, the childless wife,
tearful in the presence of that anguished motherhood; and from the bottom of her soul she forgave
her rival.

And on a rock, there, above them all, indomitable in the face of sorrow, proud and erect as
Vengeance herself, towered the massive bony frame of tia Picores, her skirts lashing like pennons
in the hurricane.

Her back was turned contemptuously toward the sea and the clenched fist she raised was menacing
some one way off on shore there, where the Miguelete raised its sturdy mass above the housetops
of Valencia.

That was the real killer of poor folks, there the real author of the catastrophe! And the sea-witch
shook her rough deformed knuckles at the city, while streams of obscenities flowed from her
cavernous mouth.

"And after this they'll come to the Fishmarket, the harlots, and beat you down, and beat you
down! And still they'll say fish comes high, the scullions! And cheap 't would be at fifty,
yes, at seventy-five a pound!..."

THE END

*       *       *       *       *

WORKS BY THE SAME AUTHOR

THE FOUR HORSEMEN OF THE APOCALYPSE

MARE NOSTRUM (OUR SEA)

BLOOD AND SAND

LA BODEGA (THE FRUIT OF THE VINE)

THE SHADOW OF THE CATHEDRAL

WOMAN TRIUMPHANT

THE ENEMIES OF WOMEN

MEXICO IN REVOLUTION

In Preparation

THE ARGONAUTS

E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY

