The shorter papers of the Round Table yield perhaps a little less freely in the way of specially
notable examples. They come closer to a certain kind of Addisonian essay, a short lay-sermon,
without the charming divagation of the longer articles. To see how nearly Hazlitt can reach
the level of a rather older and cleverer George Osborne, turn to the paper here on Classical
Education. He is quite orthodox for a wonder: perhaps because opinion was beginning to veer
a little to the side of Useful Knowledge; but he is as dry as his own favourite biscuit, and
as guiltless of freshness. He is best in this volume where he notes particular points such
as Kean's Iago, Milton's versification (here, however, he does not get quite to the heart of
the matter), "John Buncle," and "The Excursion." In this last he far outsteps the scanty confines
of the earlier papers of the Round Table, and allows himself that score of pages which seems
to be with so many men the normal limit of a good essay. Of his shortest style one sample from
"Trifles light as Air" is so characteristic, in more ways than one, that it must be quoted whole.

    I am by education and conviction inclined to Republicanism and
    Puritanism. In America they have both. But I confess I feel a
    little staggered as to the practical efficacy and saving grace
    of first principles, when I ask myself, Can they throughout the
    United States from Boston to Baltimore, produce a single head
    like one of Titian's Venetian Nobles, nurtured in all the pride
    of aristocracy and all the blindness of popery? Of all the
    branches of political economy the human face is perhaps the best
    criterion of value.

If I were editing Hazlitt's works I should put these sentences on the title-page of every volume;
for, dogmatist as he thought himself, it is certain that he was in reality purely æsthetic,
though, I need hardly say, not in the absurd sense, or no-sense, which modern misuse of language
has chosen to fix on the word. Therefore he is very good (where few are good at all) on Dreams;
and, being a great observer of himself, singularly instructive on Application to Study. "On
Londoners and Country People" is one of his liveliest efforts; and the pique at his own inclusion
in the Cockney School fortunately evaporates in some delightful reminiscences, including one
of the few classic passages on the great game of marbles. His remarks on the company at the
Southampton coffee-house, which have been often and much praised, please me less: they are
too much like attempts in the manner of the Queen Anne men, and Hazlitt is always best when
he imitates nobody. "Hot and Cold" (which might have been more intelligibly called "North and
South") is distinctly curious, bringing out again what may be called Hazlitt's fanciful observation;
and it may generally be said that, however alarming and however suggestive of commonplace the
titles "On Respectable People," "On People of Sense," "On Novelty and Familiarity," may be,
Hazlitt may almost invariably be trusted to produce something that is not commonplace, that
is not laboured paradox, that is eminently literature.

I know that a haphazard catalogue of the titles of essays (for it is little more) such as fills
the last paragraph or two may not seem very succulent. But within moderate space there is really
no other means of indicating the author's extraordinary range of subject, and at the same time
the pervading excellence of his treatment. To exemplify a difference which has sometimes been
thought to require explanation, his work as regards system, connection with anything else,
immediate occasion (which with him was generally what his friend, Mr. Skimpole, would have
called "pounds") is always Journalism: in result, it is almost always Literature. Its staple
subjects, as far as there can be said to be any staple where the thread is so various, are
very much those which the average newspaper-writer since his time has had to deal with--politics,
book-reviewing, criticism on plays and pictures, social etceteras, the minor morals, the miscellaneous
incidents of daily life. It is true that Hazlitt was only for a short time in the straitest
shafts, the most galling traces, of periodical hack-work. His practice was rather that of George
Warrington, who worked till he had filled his purse, and then lay idle till he had emptied
it. He used (an indulgence agreeable in the mouth, but bitter in the belly) very frequently
to receive money beforehand for work which was not yet done. Although anything but careful,
he was never an extravagant man, his tastes being for the most part simple; and he never, even
during his first married life, seems to have been burdened by an expensive household. Moreover,
he got rid of Mrs. Hazlitt on very easy terms. Still he must constantly have had on him the
sensation that he lived by his work, and by that only. It seems to be (as far as one can make
it out) this sensation which more than anything else jades and tires what some very metaphorical
men of letters are pleased to call their Pegasus. But Hazlitt, though he served in the shafts,
shows little trace of the harness. He has frequent small carelessnesses of style, but he would
probably have had as many or more if he had been the easiest and gentlest of easy-writing gentlemen.
He never seems to have allowed himself to be cramped in his choice of his subjects, and wrote
for the editors, of whom he speaks so amusingly, with almost as much freedom of speech as if
he had had a private press of his own, and had issued dainty little tractates on Dutch paper
to be fought for by bibliophiles. His prejudices, his desultoriness, his occasional lack of
correctness of fact (he speaks of "Fontaine's Translation" of Æsop, and makes use of the extraordinary
phrase, "The whole Council of Trent with Father Paul at their head," than which a more curious
blunder is hardly conceivable), his wayward inconsistencies, his freaks of bad taste, would
in all probability have been aggravated rather than alleviated by the greater freedom and less
responsibility of an independent or an endowed student. The fact is that he was a born man
of letters, and that he could not help turning whatsoever he touched into literature, whether
it was criticism on books or on pictures, a fight or a supper, a game at marbles, a political
diatribe, or the report of a literary conversation. He doubtless had favourite subjects; but
I do not know that it can be said that he treated one class of subjects better than another,
with the exception that I must hold him to have been first of all a literary critic. He certainly
could not write a work of great length; for the faults of his Life of Napoleon are grave even
when its view of the subject is taken as undisputed, and it holds among his productions about
the same place (that of longest and worst) which the book it was designed to counterwork holds
among Scott's. Nor was he, as it seems to me, quite at home in very short papers--in papers
of the length of the average newspaper article. What he could do, as hardly any other man has
ever done it in England, was a causerie of about the same length as Sainte-Beuve's or a little
shorter, less limited in range, but also less artfully proportioned than the great Frenchman's
literary and historical studies, giving scope for considerable digression, but coming to an
end before the author was wearied of his subject, or had exhausted the fresh thoughts and the
happy borrowings and analogies which he had ready for it. Of what is rather affectedly called
"architectonic," Hazlitt has nothing. No essay of his is ever an exhaustive or even a symmetrical
treatment of its nominal, or of any, theme. He somewhere speaks of himself as finding it easy
to go on stringing pearls when he has once got the string; but, for my part, I should say that
the string was much more doubtful than the pearls. Except in a very few set pieces, his whole
charm consists in the succession of irregular, half-connected, but unending and infinitely
variegated thoughts, fancies, phrases, quotations, which he pours forth not merely at a particular
"Open Sesame," but at "Open barley," "Open rye," or any other grain in the corn-chandler's
list. No doubt the charm of these is increased by the fact that they are never quite haphazard,
never absolutely promiscuous, despite their desultory arrangement; no doubt also a certain
additional interest arises from the constant revelation which they make of Hazlitt's curious
personality, his enthusiastic appreciation flecked with spots of grudging spite, his clear
intellect clouded with prejudice, his admiration of greatness and nobility of character co-existing
with the faculty of doing very mean and even disgraceful things, his abundant relish of life
contrasted with almost constant repining. He must have been one of the most uncomfortable of
all English men of letters, who can be called great, to know as a friend. He is certainly,
to those who know him only as readers, one of the most fruitful both in instruction and in delight.

FOOTNOTES:

[12] For some further remarks on this duel as it concerns Lockhart see Appendix.

[13] Since this paper was first published Mr. Alexander Ireland has edited a most excellent
selection from Hazlitt.

VI

MOORE

It would be interesting, though perhaps a little impertinent, to put to any given number of
well-informed persons under the age of forty or fifty the sudden query, who was Thomas Brown
the Younger? And it is very possible that a majority of them would answer that he had something
to do with Rugby. It is certain that with respect to that part of his work in which he was
pleased so to call himself, Moore is but little known. The considerable mass of his hack-work
has gone whither all hack-work goes, fortunately enough for those of us who have to do it.
The vast monument erected to him by his pupil, friend, and literary executor, Lord Russell,
or rather Lord John Russell, is a monument of such a Cyclopean order of architecture, both
in respect of bulk and in respect of style, that most honest biographers and critics acknowledge
themselves to have explored its recesses but cursorily. Less of him, even as a poet proper,
is now read than of any of the brilliant group of poets of which he was one, with the possible
exceptions of Crabbe and Rogers; while, more unfortunate than Crabbe, he has had no Mr. Courthope
to come to his rescue. But he has recently had what is an unusual thing for an English poet,
a French biographer.[14] I shall not have very much to say of the details of M. Vallat's very
creditable and useful monograph. It would be possible, if I were merely reviewing it, to pick
out some of the curious errors of hasty deduction which are rarely wanting in a book of its
nationality. If (and no shame to him) Moore's father sold cheese and whisky, le whisky d'Irlande
was no doubt his staple commodity in the one branch, but scarcely le fromage de Stilton in
the other. An English lawyer's studies are not even now, except at the universities and for
purposes of perfunctory examination, very much in "Justinian," and in Moore's time they were
still less so. And if Bromham Church is near Sloperton, then it will follow as the night the
day that it is not dans le Bedfordshire. But these things matter very little. They are found,
in their different kinds, in all books; and if we English bookmakers (at least some of us)
are not likely to make a Bordeaux wine merchant sell Burgundy as his chief commodity, or say
that a village near Amiens is dans le Béarn, we no doubt do other things quite as bad. On the
whole, M. Vallat's sketch, though of moderate length, is quite the soberest and most trustworthy
sketch of Moore's life and of his books, as books merely, that I know. In matters of pure criticism
M. Vallat is less blameless. He quotes authorities with that apparent indifference to, or even
ignorance of, their relative value which is so yawning a pit for the feet of the foreigner
in all cases; and perhaps a wider knowledge of English poetry in general would have been a
better preparation for the study of Moore's in particular. "Never," says M. Renan very wisely,
"never does a foreigner satisfy the nation whose history he writes"; and this is as true of
literary history as of history proper. But M. Vallat satisfies us in a very considerable degree;
and even putting aside the question whether he is satisfactory altogether, he has given us
quite sufficient text in the mere fact that he has bestowed upon Moore an amount of attention
and competence which no compatriot of the author of "Lalla Rookh" has cared to bestow for many
years.

I shall also here take the liberty of neglecting a very great--as far as bulk goes, by far
the greatest--part of Moore's own performance. He has inserted so many interesting autobiographical
particulars in the prefaces to his complete works, that visits to the great mausoleum of the
Russell memoirs are rarely necessary, and still more rarely profitable. His work for the booksellers
was done at a time when the best class of such work was much better done than the best class
of it is now; but it was after all work for the booksellers. His History of Ireland, his Life
of Lord Edward Fitzgerald, etc., may be pretty exactly gauged by saying that they are a good
deal better than Scott's work of a merely similar kind (in which it is hardly necessary to
say that I do not include the Tales of a Grandfather or the introductions to the Dryden, the
Swift, and the Ballantyne novels), not nearly so good as Southey's, and not quite so good as
Campbell's. The Life of Byron holds a different place. With the poems, or some of them, it
forms the only part of Moore's literary work which is still read; and though it is read much
more for its substance than for its execution, it is still a masterly performance of a very
difficult task. The circumstances which brought it about are well known, and no discussion
of them would be possible without plunging into the Byron controversy generally, which the
present writer most distinctly declines to do. But these circumstances, with other things among
which Moore's own comparative faculty for the business may be not unjustly mentioned, prevent
it from taking rank at all approaching that of Boswell's or Lockhart's inimitable biographies.
The chief thing to note in it as regards Moore himself, is the help it gives in a matter to
which we shall have to refer again, his attitude towards those whom his time still called "the
great."

And so we are left with the poems--not an inconsiderable companion seeing that its stature
is some seven hundred small quarto pages closely packed with verses in double columns. Part
of this volume is, however, devoted to the "Epicurean," a not unremarkable example of ornate
prose in many respects resembling the author's verse. Indeed, as close readers of Moore know,
there exists an unfinished verse form of it which, in style and general character, is not unlike
a more serious "Lalla Rookh." As far as poetry goes, almost everything that will be said of
"Lalla Rookh" might be said of "Alciphron": this latter, however, is a little more Byronic
than its more famous sister, and in that respect not quite so successful.

Moore's life, which is not uninteresting as a key to his personal character, is very fairly
treated by M. Vallat, chiefly from the poet's own authority; but it need not detain us very
long. He was born at Dublin on 28th May 1779. There is no mystery about his origin. His father,
John Moore, was a small grocer and liquor-shop keeper who received later the place of barrack-master
from a patron of his son. The mother, Anastasia Codd, was a Wexford girl, and seems to have
been well educated and somewhat above her husband in station. Thomas was sent to several private
schools, where he appears to have attained to some scholarship and to have early practised
composition in the tongue of the hated Saxon. When he was fourteen, the first measure of Catholic
Emancipation opened Trinity College to him, and that establishment, "the intellectual eye of
Ireland" as Sir William Harcourt has justly called it, received him a year later. The "silent
sister" has fostered an always genial, if sometimes inexact, fashion of scholarship, in which
Moore's talents were well suited to shine, and a pleasant social atmosphere wherein he was
also not misplaced. But the time drew near to '98, and Moore, although he had always too much
good sense to dip deeply into sedition, was, from his sentimental habits, likely to run some
risk of being thought to have dipped in it. Although it is certain that he would have regarded
what is called Nationalism in our days with disgust and horror, he cannot be acquitted of using,
to the end of his life, the loosest of language on subjects where precision is particularly
to be desired. Robert Emmet was his contemporary, and the action which the authorities took
was but too well justified by the outbreak of the insurrection later. A Commission was named
for purifying the college. Its head was Lord Clare, one of the greatest of Irishmen, the base
or ignorant vilifying of whom by some persons in these days has been one of the worst results
of the Home Rule movement. It had a rather comic assessor in Dr. Duigenan, the same, I believe,
of whom it has been recorded that, at an earlier stage of his academic career and when a junior
Fellow, he threatened to "bulge the Provost's eye." The oath was tendered to each examinate,
and on the day before Moore's appearance Emmet and others had gone by default, while it was
at least whispered that there had been treachery in the camp. Moore's own performance was,
by his own account, heroic and successful: by another, which he very fairly gives, a little
less heroic but still successful. Both show clearly that Clare was nothing like the stage-tyrant
which the imagination of the seditious has chosen to represent him as being. That M. Vallat
should talk rather foolishly about Emmet was to be expected; for Emmet's rhetorical rubbish
was sure to impose, and has always imposed, on Frenchmen. The truth of course is that this
young person--though one of those whom every humane man would like to keep mewed up till they
arrived, if they ever did arrive, which is improbable, at years of discretion--was one of the
most mischievous of agitators. He was one of those who light a bonfire and then are shocked
at its burning, who throw a kingdom into anarchy and misery and think that they are cleared
by a reference to Harmodius and Aristogeiton. It is one of the most fearful delights of the
educated Tory to remember what the grievance of Harmodius and Aristogeiton really was. Moore
(who had something of the folly of Emmet, but none of his reckless conceit) escaped, and his
family must have been exceedingly glad to send him over to the Isle of Britain. He entered
at the Middle Temple in 1799, but hardly made even a pretence of reading law. His actual experience
is one of those puzzles which continually meet the student of literary history in the days
when society was much smaller, the makers of literature fewer, and the resources of patronage
greater. Moore toiled not, neither did he spin. He slipped, apparently on the mere strength
of an ordinary introduction, into the good graces of Lord Moira, who introduced him to the
exiled Royal Family of France, and to the richest members of the Whig aristocracy--the Duke
of Bedford, the Marquis of Lansdowne and others, not to mention the Prince of Wales himself.
The young Irishman had indeed, as usual, his "proposals" in his pocket--proposals for a translation
of Anacreon which appeared in May 1800. The thing which thus founded one of the easiest, if
not the most wholly triumphant, of literary careers is not a bad thing. The original, now abandoned
as a clever though late imitation, was known even in Moore's time to be in parts of very doubtful
authenticity, but it still remains, as an original, a very pretty thing. Moore's version is
not quite so pretty, and is bolstered out with paraphrase and amplification to a rather intolerable
extent. But there was considerable fellow-feeling between the author, whoever he was, and the
translator, and the result is not despicable. Still there is no doubt that work as good or
better might appear now, and the author would be lucky if he cleared a hundred pounds and a
favourable review or two by the transaction. Moore was made for life. These things happen at
one time and do not happen at another. We are inclined to accept them as ultimate facts into
which it is useless to inquire. There does not appear to be among the numerous fixed laws of
the universe any one which regulates the proportion of literary desert to immediate reward,
and it is on the whole well that it should be so. At any rate the publication increased Moore's
claims as a "lion," and encouraged him to publish next year the Poems of the late Thomas Little
(he always stuck to the Christian name), which put up his fame and rather put down his character.

In later editions Thomas Little has been so much subjected to the fig-leaf and knife that we
have known readers who wondered why on earth any one should ever have objected to him. He was
a good deal more uncastrated originally, but there never was much harm in him. It is true that
the excuse made by Sterne for Tristram Shandy, and often repeated for Moore, does not quite
apply. There is not much guilt in Little, but there is certainly very little innocence. He
knows that a certain amount of not too gross indecency will raise a snigger, and, like Voltaire
and Sterne himself, he sets himself to raise it. But he does not do it very wickedly. The propriety
of the nineteenth century, moreover, had not then made the surprisingly rapid strides of a
few years later, and some time had to pass before Moore was to go out with Jeffrey, and nearly
challenge Byron, for questioning his morality. The rewards of his harmless iniquity were at
hand; and in the autumn of 1803 he was made Secretary of the Admiralty in Bermuda. Bermuda,
it is said, is an exceedingly pleasant place; but either there is no Secretary of the Admiralty
there now, or they do not give the post to young men four-and-twenty years old who have written
two very thin volumes of light verses. The Bermoothes are not still vexed with that kind of
Civil Servant. The appointment was not altogether fortunate for Moore, inasmuch as his deputy
(for they not only gave nice berths to men of letters then, but let them have deputies) embezzled
public and private moneys, with disastrous results to his easy-going principal. But for the
time it was all, as most things were with Moore, plain sailing. He went out in a frigate, and
was the delight of the gun-room. As soon as he got tired of the Bermudas, he appointed his
deputy and went to travel in America, composing large numbers of easy poems. In October 1804
he was back in England, still voyaging at His Majesty's expense, and having achieved his fifteen
months' trip wholly on those terms. Little is heard of him for the next two years, and then
the publication of his American and other poems, with some free reflections on the American
character, brought down on him the wrath of The Edinburgh, and provoked the famous leadless
or half-leadless duel at Chalk Farm. It was rather hard on Moore, if the real cause of his
castigation was that he had offended democratic principles, while the ostensible cause was
that, as Thomas Little, he had five years before written loose and humorous verses. So thinks
M. Vallat, with whom we are not wholly disposed to agree, for Jeffrey, though a Whig, was no
Democrat, and he was a rather strict moralist. However, no harm came of the meeting in any
sense, though its somewhat burlesque termination made the irreverent laugh. It was indeed not
fated that Moore should smell serious powder, though his courage seems to have been fully equal
to any such occasion. The same year brought him two unquestioned and unalloyed advantages,
the friendship of Rogers and the beginning of the Irish Melodies, from which he reaped not
a little solid benefit, and which contain by far his highest and most lasting poetry. It is
curious, but by no means unexampled, that, at the very time at which he was thus showing that
he had found his right way, he also diverged into one wholly wrong--that of the serious and
very ineffective Satires, "Corruption," "Intolerance," and others. The year 1809 brought "English
Bards and Scotch Reviewers" with a gibe from Byron and a challenge from Moore. But Moore's
challenges were fated to have no other result than making the challenged his friends for life.
All this time he had been more or less "about town." In 1811 he married Elizabeth Dyke ("Bessy"),
an actress of virtue and beauty, and wrote the very inferior comic opera of "The Blue Stocking."
Lord Moira gave the pair a home first in his own house, then at Kegworth near Donington, whence
they moved to Ashbourne. Moore was busy now. The politics of "The Two-penny Postbag" are of
course sometimes dead enough to us; but sometimes also they are not, and then the easy grace
of the satire, which is always pungent and never venomed, is not much below Canning. Its author
also did a good deal of other work of the same kind, besides beginning to review for The Edinburgh.
Considering that he was in a way making his bread and butter by lampooning, however good-humouredly,
the ruler of his country, he seems to have been a little unreasonable in feeling shocked that
Lord Moira, on going as viceroy to India, did not provide for him. In the first place he was
provided for already; and in the second place you cannot reasonably expect to enjoy the pleasures
of independence and those of dependence at the same time. At the end of 1817 he left Mayfield
(his cottage near Ashbourne) and Lord Moira, for Lord Lansdowne and Sloperton, a cottage near
Bowood, the end of the one sojourn and the beginning of the other being distinguished by the
appearance of his two best works, next to the Irish Melodies--"Lalla Rookh" and "The Fudge
Family at Paris." His first and almost his only heavy stroke of ill-luck now came on him: his
deputy at Bermuda levanted with some six thousand pounds, for which Moore was liable. Many
friends came to his aid, and after some delay and negotiations, during which he had to go abroad,
Lord Lansdowne paid what was necessary. But Moore afterwards paid Lord Lansdowne, which makes
a decided distinction between his conduct and that of Theodore Hook in a similar case.

Although the days of Moore lasted for half an ordinary lifetime after this, they saw few important
events save the imbroglio over the Byron memoirs. They saw also the composition of a great
deal of literature and journalism, all very well paid, notwithstanding which, Moore seems to
have been always in a rather unintelligible state of pecuniary distress. That he made his parents
an allowance, as some allege in explanation, will not in the least account for this; for, creditable
as it was in him to make it, this allowance did not exceed one hundred pounds a year. He must
have spent little in an ordinary way, for his Sloperton establishment was of the most modest
character, while his wife was an excellent manager, and never went into society. Probably he
might have endorsed, if he had been asked, the great principle which somebody or other has
formulated, that the most expensive way of living is staying in other peoples houses. At any
rate his condition was rather precarious till 1835, when Lord John Russell and Lord Lansdowne
obtained for him a Civil List pension of three hundred pounds a year. In his very last days
this was further increased by an additional hundred a year to his wife. His end was not happy.
The softening of the brain, which set in about 1848, and which had been preceded for some time
by premonitory symptoms, can hardly, as in the cases of Scott and Southey, be set down to overwork,
for though Moore had not been idle, his literary life had been mere child's play to theirs.
He died on 26th February 1852.

Of Moore's character not much need be said, nor need what is said be otherwise than favourable.
Not only to modern tastes, but to the sturdier tastes of his own day, and even of the days
immediately before his, there was a little too much of the parasite and the hanger-on about
him. It is easy to say that a man of his talents, when he had once obtained a start, might
surely have gone his own way and lived his own life, without taking up the position of a kind
of superior gamekeeper or steward at rich men's gates. But race, fashion, and a good many other
things have to be taken into account; and it is fair to Moore to remember that he was, as it
were from the first, bound to the chariot-wheels of "the great," and could hardly liberate
himself from them without churlishness and violence. Moreover, it cannot possibly be denied
by any fair critic that if he accepted to some extent the awkward position of led-poet, he
showed in it as much independence as was compatible with the function. Both in money matters,
in his language to his patrons, and in a certain general but indefinable tone of behaviour,
he contrasts not less favourably than remarkably, both with the ultra-Tory Hook, to whom we
have already compared him, and with the ultra-Radical Leigh Hunt. Moore had as little of Wagg
as he had of Skimpole about him; though he allowed his way of life to compare in some respects
perilously with theirs. It is only necessary to look at his letters to Byron--always ready
enough to treat as spaniels those of his inferiors in station who appeared to be of the spaniel
kind--to appreciate his general attitude, and his behaviour in this instance is by no means
different from his behaviour in others. As a politician there is no doubt that he at least
thought himself to be quite sincere. It may be that, if he had been, his political satires
would have galled Tories more than they did then, and could hardly be read by persons of that
persuasion with such complete enjoyment as they can now. But the insincerity was quite unconscious,
and indeed can hardly be said to have been insincerity at all. Moore had not a political head,
and in English as in Irish politics his beliefs were probably not founded on any clearly comprehended
principles. But such as they were he held to them firmly. Against his domestic character nobody
has ever said anything; and it is sufficient to observe that not a few of the best as well
as of the greatest men of his time, Scott as well as Byron, Lord John Russell as well as Lord
Moira, appear not only to have admired his abilities and liked his social qualities, but to
have sincerely respected his character. And so we may at last find ourselves alone with the
plump volume of poems in which we shall hardly discover with the amiable M. Vallat "the greatest
lyric poet of England," but in which we shall find a poet certainly, and if not a very great
poet, at any rate a poet who has done many things well, and one particular thing better than
anybody else.

The volume opens with "Lalla Rookh," a proceeding which, if not justified by chronology, is
completely justified by the facts that Moore was to his contemporaries the author of that poem
chiefly, and that it is by far the most considerable thing not only in mere bulk, but in arrangement,
plan, and style, that he ever did. Perhaps I am not quite a fair judge of "Lalla Rookh." I
was brought up in what is called a strict household where, though the rule was not, as far
as I can remember, enforced by any penalties, it was a point of honour that in the nursery
and school-room none but "Sunday books" should be read on Sunday. But this severity was tempered
by one of the easements often occurring in a world which, if not the best, is certainly not
the worst of all possible worlds. For the convenience of servants, or for some other reason,
the children were much more in the drawing-room on Sundays than on any other day, and it was
an unwritten rule that any book that lived in the drawing-room was fit Sunday-reading. The
consequence was that from the time I could read, till childish things were put away, I used
to spend a considerable part of the first day of the week in reading and re-reading a collection
of books, four of which were Scott's poems, "Lalla Rookh," The Essays of Elia (First Edition,--I
have got it now), and Southey's Doctor. Therefore it may be that I rank "Lalla Rookh" rather
too high. At the same time, I confess that it still seems to me a very respectable poem indeed
of the second rank. Of course it is artificial. The parade of second, or third, or twentieth-hand
learning in the notes makes one smile, and the whole reminds one (as I daresay it has reminded
many others before) of a harp of the period with the gilt a little tarnished, the ribbons more
than a little faded, and the silk stool on which the young woman in ringlets used to sit much
worn. All this is easy metaphorical criticism, if it is criticism at all. For I am not sure
that, when the last age has got a little farther off from our descendants, they will see anything
more ludicrous in such a harp than we see in the faded spinets of a generation earlier still.
But much remains to Lalla if not to Feramorz. The prose interludes have lost none of their
airy grace. Even Mr. Burnand has not been able to make Mokanna ridiculous, nor have the recent
accounts of the actual waste of desert and felt huts banished at least the poetical beauty
of "Merou's bright palaces and groves." There are those who laugh at the bower of roses by
Bendemeer's stream: I do not. "Paradise and the Peri" is perhaps the prettiest purely sentimental
poem that English or any other language can show. "The Fire Worshippers" are rather long, but
there is a famous fight--more than one indeed--in them to relieve the monotony. For "The Light
of the Harem" alone I have never been able to get up much enthusiasm; but even "The Light of
the Harem" is a great deal better than Moore's subsequent attempt in the style of "Lalla Rookh,"
or something like it, "The Loves of the Angels." There is only one good thing that I can find
to say of that: it is not so bad as the poem which similarity of title makes one think of in
connection with it--Lamartine's disastrous "Chute d'un Ange."

As "Lalla Rookh" is far the most important of Moore's serious poems, so "The Fudge Family in
Paris" is far the best of his humorous poems. I do not forget "The Two-penny Postbag," nor
many capital later verses of the same kind, the best of which perhaps is the Epistle from Henry
of Exeter to John of Tchume. But "The Fudge Family" has all the merits of these, with a scheme
and framework of dramatic character which they lack. Miss Biddy and her vanities, Master Bob
and his guttling, the eminent turncoat Phil Fudge, Esq. himself and his politics, are all excellent.
But I avow that Phelim Connor is to me the most delightful, though he has always been rather
a puzzle. If he is intended to be a satire on the class now represented by the O'Briens and
the McCarthys he is exquisite, and it is small wonder that Young Ireland has never loved Moore
much. But I do not think that Thomas Brown the Younger meant it, or at least wholly meant it,
as satire, and this is perhaps the best proof of his unpractical way of looking at politics.
For Phelim Connor is a much more damning sketch than any of the Fudges. Vanity, gluttony, the
scheming intrigues of eld, may not be nice things, but they are common to the whole human race.
The hollow rant which enjoys the advantages of liberty and declaims against the excesses of
tyranny is in its perfection Irish alone. However this may be, these lighter poems of Moore
are great fun, and it is no small misfortune that the younger generation of readers pays so
little attention to them. For they are full of acute observation of manners, politics, and
society by an accomplished man of the world, put into pointed and notable form by an accomplished
man of letters. Our fathers knew them well, and many a quotation familiar enough at second
hand is due originally to the Fudge Family in their second appearance (not so good, but still
good) many years later, to "The Two-penny Postbag" and to the long list of miscellaneous satires
and skits. The last sentence is however to be taken as most strictly excluding "Corruption,"
"Intolerance," and "The Sceptic." "Rhymes on the Road," travel-pieces out of Moore's line,
may also be mercifully left aside: and "Evenings in Greece;" and "The Summer Fête" (any universal
provider would have supplied as good a poem with the supper and the rout-seats) need not delay
the critic and will not extraordinarily delight the reader. Not here is Moore's spur of Parnassus
to be found.

For that domain of his we must go to the songs which, in extraordinary numbers, make up the
whole of the divisions headed Irish Melodies, National Airs, Sacred Songs, Ballads and Songs,
and some of the finest of which are found outside these divisions in the longer poems from
"Lalla Rookh" downwards. The singular musical melody of these pieces has never been seriously
denied by any one, but it seems to be thought, especially nowadays, that because they are musically
melodious they are not poetical. It is probably useless to protest against a prejudice which,
where it is not due to simple thoughtlessness or to blind following of fashion, argues a certain
constitutional defect of the understanding powers. But it may be just necessary to repeat pretty
firmly that any one who regards, even with a tincture of contempt, such work (to take various
characteristic examples) as Dryden's lyrics, as Shenstone's, as Moore's, as Macaulay's Lays,
because he thinks that, if he did not contemn them, his worship of Shakespeare, of Shelley,
of Wordsworth would be suspect, is most emphatically not a critic of poetry and not even a
catholic lover of it. Which said, let us betake ourselves to seeing what Moore's special virtue
is. It is acknowledged that it consists partly in marrying music most happily to verse; but
what is not so fully acknowledged as it ought to be is, that it also consists in marrying music
not merely to verse, but to poetry. Among the more abstract questions of poetical criticism
few are more interesting than this, the connection of what may be called musical music with
poetical music; and it is one which has not been much discussed. Let us take the two greatest
of Moore's own contemporaries in lyric, the two greatest lyrists as some think (I give no opinion
on this) in English, and compare their work with his. Shelley has the poetical music in an
unsurpassable and sometimes in an almost unapproached degree, but his verse is admittedly very
difficult to set to music. I should myself go farther and say that it has in it some indefinable
quality antagonistic to such setting. Except the famous Indian Serenade, I do not know any
poem of Shelley's that has been set with anything approaching to success, and in the best setting
that I know of this the honeymoon of the marriage turns into a "red moon" before long. That
this is not merely due to the fact that Shelley likes intricate metres any one who examines
Moore can see. That it is due merely to the fact that Shelley, as we know from Peacock, was
almost destitute of any ear for music is the obvious and common explanation. But neither will
this serve, for we happen also to know that Burns, whose lyric, of a higher quality than Moore's,
assorts with music as naturally as Moore's own, was quite as deficient as Shelley in this respect.
So was Scott, who could yet write admirable songs to be sung. It seems therefore almost impossible,
on the comparison of these three instances, to deny the existence of some peculiar musical
music in poetry, which is distinct from poetical music, though it may coexist with it or may
be separated from it, and which is independent both of technical musical training and even
of what is commonly called "ear" in the poet. That Moore possessed it in probably the highest
degree, will I think, hardly be denied. It never seems to have mattered to him whether he wrote
the words for the air or altered the air to suit the words. The two fit like a glove, and if,
as is sometimes the case, the same or a similar poetical measure is heard set to another air
than Moore's, this other always seems intrusive and wrong. He draws attention in one case to
the extraordinary irregularity of his own metre (an irregularity to which the average pindaric
is a mere jog-trot), yet the air fits it exactly. Of course the two feet which most naturally
go to music, the anapæst and the trochee, are commonest with him; but the point is that he
seems to find no more difficulty, if he does not take so much pleasure, in setting combinations
of a very different kind. Nor is this peculiar gift by any means unimportant from the purely
poetical side, the side on which the verse is looked at without any regard to air or accompaniment.
For the great drawback to "songs to be sung" in general since Elizabethan days (when, as Mr.
Arber and Mr. Bullen have shown, it was very different) has been the constant tendency of the
verse-writer to sacrifice to his musical necessities either meaning or poetic sound or both.
The climax of this is of course reached in the ineffable balderdash which usually does duty
for the libretto of an opera, but it is quite as noticeable in the ordinary songs of the drawing-room.
Now Moore is quite free from this blame. He may not have the highest and rarest strokes of
poetic expression; but at any rate he seldom or never sins against either reason or poetry
for the sake of rhythm and rhyme. He is always the master not the servant, the artist not the
clumsy craftsman. And this I say not by any means as one likely to pardon poetical shortcomings
in consideration of musical merit, for, shameful as the confession may be, a little music goes
a long way with me; and what music I do like, is rather of the kind opposite to Moore's facile
styles. Yet it is easy, even from the musical view, to exaggerate his facility. Berlioz is
not generally thought a barrel-organ composer, and he bestowed early and particular pains on Moore.

To many persons, however, the results are more interesting than the analysis of their qualities
and principles; so let us go to the songs themselves. To my fancy the three best of Moore's
songs, and three of the finest songs in any language, are "Oft in the stilly Night," "When
in Death I shall calm recline," and "I saw from the Beach." They all exemplify what has been
pointed out above, the complete adaptation of words to music and music to words, coupled with
a decidedly high quality of poetical merit in the verse, quite apart from the mere music. It
can hardly be necessary to quote them, for they are or ought to be familiar to everybody; but
in selecting these three I have no intention of distinguishing them in point of general excellence
from scores, nay hundreds of others. "Go where Glory waits thee" is the first of the Irish
melodies, and one of those most hackneyed by the enthusiasm of bygone Pogsons. But its merit
ought in no way to suffer on that account with persons who are not Pogsons. It ought to be
possible for the reader, it is certainly possible for the critic, to dismiss Pogson altogether,
to wave Pogson off, and to read anything as if it had never been read before. If this be done
we shall hardly wonder at the delight which our fathers, who will not compare altogether badly
with ourselves, took in Thomas Moore. "When he who adores thee" is supposed on pretty good
evidence to have been inspired by the most hollow and senseless of all pseudo-patriotic delusions,
a delusion of which the best thing that can be said is that "the pride of thus dying for" it
has been about the last thing that it ever did inspire, and that most persons who have suffered
from it have usually had the good sense to take lucrative places from the tyrant as soon as
they could get them, and to live happily ever after. But the basest, the most brutal, and the
bloodiest of Saxons may recognise in Moore's poem the expression of a possible, if not a real,
feeling given with infinite grace and pathos. The same string reverberates even in the thrice
and thousand times hackneyed Harp of Tara. "Rich and rare were the Gems she wore" is chiefly
comic opera, but it is very pretty comic opera; and the two pieces "There is not in the wide
world" and "How dear to me" exemplify, for the first but by no means for the last time, Moore's
extraordinary command of the last phase of that curious thing called by the century that gave
him birth Sensibility. We have turned Sensibility out of doors; but he would be a rash man
who should say that we have not let in seven worse devils of the gushing kind in her comparatively
innocent room.

Then we may skip not a few pieces, only referring once more to "The Legacy" ("When in Death
I shall calm recline"), an anacreontic quite unsurpassable in its own kind. We need dwell but
briefly on such pieces as "Believe me if all those endearing young Charms," which is typical
of much that Moore wrote, but does not reach the true devil-may-care note of Suckling, or as
"By the Hope within us springing," for Moore's war-like pieces are seldom or never good. But
with "Love's Young Dream" we come back to the style of which it is impossible to say less than
that it is quite admirable in its kind. Then after a page or two we come to the chief cruces
of Moore's pathetic and of his comic manner, "The Last Rose of Summer," "The Young May Moon,"
and "The Minstrel Boy." I cannot say very much for the last, which is tainted with the unreality
of all Moore's Tyrtean efforts; but "The Young May Moon" could not be better, and I am not
going to abandon the Rose, for all her perfume be something musty--a pot-pourri rose rather
than a fresh one. The song of O'Ruark with its altogether fatal climax--

    On our side is virtue and Erin,
    On theirs is the Saxon and guilt--

(which carries with it the delightful reflection that it was an Irishman running away with
an Irishwoman that occasioned this sweeping moral contrast) must be given up; but surely not
so "Oh had we some bright little Isle of our own." For indeed if one only had some bright little
isle of that kind, some rive fidèle où l'on aime toujours, and where things in general are
adjusted to such a state, then would Thomas Moore be the Laureate of that bright and tight
little island.

But it is alarming to find that we have not yet got through twenty-five pages out of some hundred
or two, and that the Irish Melodies are not yet nearly exhausted. Not a few of the best known
of Moore's songs, including "Oft in the stilly Night," are to be found in the division of National
Airs, which is as a whole a triumph of that extraordinary genius for setting which has been
already noticed. Here is "Flow on thou shining River," here the capital "When I touch the String,"
on which Thackeray loved to make variations. But "Oft in the stilly Night" itself is far above
the others. We do not say "stilly" now: we have been taught by Coleridge (who used to use it
freely himself before he laughed at it) to laugh at "stilly" and "paly" and so forth. But the
most acrimonious critic may be challenged to point out another weakness of the same kind, and
on the whole the straightforward simplicity of the phrase equals the melody of the rhythm.

The Sacred Songs need not delay us long; for they are not better than sacred songs in general,
which is saying remarkably little. Perhaps the most interesting thing in them is the well-known
couplet,

    This world is but a fleeting show
    For man's illusion given--

which, as has justly been observed, contains one of the most singular estimates of the divine
purpose anywhere to be found. But Moore might, like Mr. Midshipman Easy, have excused himself
by remarking, "Ah! well, I don't understand these things." The miscellaneous division of Ballads,
Songs, etc., is much more fruitful. "The Leaf and the Fountain," beginning "Tell me, kind seer,
I pray thee," though rather long, is singularly good of its kind--the kind of half-narrative
ballad. So in a lighter strain is "The Indian Bark." Nor is Moore less at home after his own
fashion in the songs from the Anthology. It is true that the same fault which has been found
with his Anacreon may be found here, and that it is all the more sensible because at least
in some cases the originals are much higher poetry than the pseudo-Teian. To the form and style
of Meleager Moore could not pretend; but as these are rather songs on Greek motives than translations
from the Greek, the slackness and dilution matter less. But the strictly miscellaneous division
holds some of the best work. We could no doubt dispense with the well-known ditty (for once
very nearly the "rubbish" with which Moore is so often and so unjustly charged) where Posada
rhymes of necessity to Granada, and where, quite against the author's habit, the ridiculous
term "Sultana" is fished out to do similar duty in reference to the Dulcinea, or rather to
the Maritornes, of a muleteer. But this is quite an exception, and as a rule the facile verse
is as felicitous as it is facile. Perhaps no one stands out very far above the rest; perhaps
all have more or less the mark of easy variations on a few well-known themes. The old comparison
that they are as numerous as motes, as bright, as fleeting, and as individually insignificant,
comes naturally enough to the mind. But then they are very numerous, they are very bright,
and if they are fleeting, their number provides plenty more to take the place of that which
passes away. Nor is it by any means true that they lack individual significance.

This enumeration of a few out of many ornaments of Moore's muse will of course irritate those
who object to the "brick-of-the-house" mode of criticism; while it may not be minute enough,
or sufficiently bolstered by actual quotation, to please those who hold that simple extract
is the best, if not the only tolerable form of criticism. But the critic is not alone in finding
that, whether he carry his ass or ride upon it, he cannot please all his public. What has been
said is probably enough, in the case of a writer whose work, though as a whole rather unjustly
forgotten, survives in parts more securely even than the work of greater men, to remind readers
of at least the outlines and bases of his claim to esteem. And the more those outlines are
followed up, and the structure founded on those bases is examined, the more certain, I think,
is Moore of recovering, not the position which M. Vallat would assign to him of the greatest
lyrist of England (a position which he never held and never could hold except with very prejudiced
or very incompetent judges), not that of the equal of Scott or Byron or Shelley or Wordsworth,
but still a position high enough and singularly isolated at its height. Viewed from the point
of strictly poetical criticism, he no doubt ranks only with those poets who have expressed
easily and acceptably the likings and passions and thoughts and fancies of the average man,
and who have expressed these with no extraordinary cunning or witchery. To go further in limitation,
the average man, of whom he is thus the bard, is a rather sophisticated average man, without
very deep thoughts or feelings, without a very fertile or fresh imagination or fancy, with
even a touch--a little touch--of cant and "gush" and other defects incident to average and
sophisticated humanity. But this humanity is at any time and every time no small portion of
humanity at large, and it is to Moore's credit that he sings its feelings and its thoughts
so as always to get the human and durable element in them visible and audible through the "trappings
of convention." Again, he has that all-saving touch of humour which enables him, sentimentalist
as he is, to be an admirable comedian as well. Yet again, he has at least something of the
two qualities which one must demand of a poet who is a poet, and not a mere maker of rhymes.
His note of feeling, if not full or deep, is true and real. His faculty of expression is not
only considerable, but it is also distinguished; it is a faculty which in the same measure
and degree nobody else has possessed. On one side he had the gift of singing those admirable
songs of which we have been talking. On the other, he had the gift of right satiric verse to
a degree which only three others of the great dead men of this century in England--Canning,
Praed, and Thackeray--have reached. Besides all this, he was a "considerable man of letters."
But your considerable men of letters, after flourishing, turn to dust in their season, and
other considerable or inconsiderable men of letters spring out of it. The true poets and even
the true satirists abide, and both as a poet and a satirist Thomas Moore abides and will abide
with them.

FOOTNOTES:

[14] Etude sur la Vie et les Oeuvres de Thomas Moore; by Gustave Vallat. Paris: Rousseau. London:
Asher and Co. Dublin: Hodges, Figgis, and Co. 1887.

VII

LEIGH HUNT

To compare the peaceful and home-keeping art of criticism to the adventurous one of lighthouse-building
may seem an excursion into the heroi-comic, if not into the tragic-burlesque. Neither is it
in the least my intention to dwell on a tolerably obvious metaphorical resemblance between
the two. It is certainly the business of the critic to warn others off from the mistakes which
have been committed by his forerunners, and perhaps (for let us anticipate the crushing wit)
from his own. But that is not my reason for the suggestion. There is a story of I forget what
lighthouse which Smeaton, or Stevenson, or somebody else, had unusual difficulty in establishing.
The rock was too near the surface for it to be safe or practicable to moor barges over it;
and it was uncovered for too short a time to enable any solid foundations to be laid or even
begun during one tide. So the engineer, with other adventurous persons, got himself landed
on it, succeeded after a vain attempt or two in working an iron rod into the middle, and then
hung on bodily while the tide was up, that he and his men might begin again as soon as it receded.
In a mild and unexciting fashion, that is what the critic has to do--to dig about till he makes
a lodgment in his author, hang on to it, and then begin to build. It is not always very easy
work, and it is never less easy than in the case of the author whom somebody has kindly called
"the Ariel of criticism." Leigh Hunt is an extremely difficult person upon whom to make any
critical lodgment, for the reason that (I do not intend any disrespect by the comparison) he
has much less of the rock about him than of the shifting sand. I do not now speak of the great
Skimpole problem--we shall come to that presently--but merely of the writer as shown in his works.

The works themselves are not particularly easy to get together in any complete form, some of
them being almost inextricably entangled in defunct periodicals, and others reappearing in
different guises in the author's many published volumes. Mr. Kent's bibliography gives forty-six
different entries; Mr. Alexander Ireland's (to which he refers) gives, I think, over eighty.
Some years ago I remember receiving the catalogue of a second-hand bookseller who offered what
he very frankly confessed to be far from a complete collection of the first editions, at the
price of a score or two of pounds; and here at least the first are in some cases the only issues.
Probably this is one reason why selections from Leigh Hunt, of which Mr. Kent's is the latest
and best, have been frequent. I have seen two certainly, and I think three, within as many
years. Luckily, however, quite enough for the reader's if not for the critic's purpose is easily
obtainable. The poems can be bought in more forms than one; Messrs. Smith and Elder have reprinted
cheaply the "Autobiography," "Men, Women, and Books," "Imagination and Fancy," "The Town,"
"Wit and Humour," "Table Talk," and "A Jar of Honey." Other reprints of "One Hundred Romances
of Real Life" (one of his merest pieces of book-making) and of his "Stories from the Italian
Poets," one of his worst pieces of criticism, but agreeably reproduced in every respect save
the hideous American spelling, have recently appeared. The complete and uniform issue, the
want of which to some lovers of books (I own myself among them) is never quite made up by a
scratch company of volumes of all dates, sizes, and prints, is indeed wanting. But still you
can get a working Leigh Hunt together.

It is when you have got him that your trouble begins; and before it is done the critic, if
he be one of those who are not satisfied with a mere compte rendu, is likely to acknowledge
that Leigh Hunt, if "Ariel" be in some respects too complimentary a name for him, is at any
rate a most tricksy spirit. The finest taste in some ways, contrasting with what can only be
called the most horrible vulgarity in others; a light hand tediously boring again and again
at obviously miscomprehended questions of religion, philosophy, and politics; a keen appetite
for humour condescending to thin and repeated jests; a reviler of kings going out of his way
laboriously to beslaver royalty; a man of letters, of talent almost touching genius, who seldom
writes a dozen consecutive good pages:--these are only some of the inconsistencies that meet
us in Leigh Hunt.

He has related the history of his immediate and remoter forbears with considerable minuteness--with
more minuteness indeed by far than he has bestowed upon all but a few passages of his own life.
For the general reader, however, it is quite sufficient to know that his father, the Reverend
Isaac Hunt, who belonged to a clerical family in Barbados, went for his education to the still
British Provinces of North America, married a Philadelphia girl, Mary Shewell, practised as
a lawyer till the Revolution broke out, and then being driven from his adopted country as a
loyalist, settled in England, took orders, drifted into Unitarianism or anythingarianism, and
ended his days, after not infrequent visits to the King's Bench, comfortably enough, but hanging
rather loose on society, his friends, and a pension. Leigh Hunt (his godfathers and godmothers
gave him also the names of James Henry, which he dropped) was the youngest son, and was born
on 19th October 1784. His best youthful remembrance, and one of the most really humorous things
he ever said, was that he used, after a childish indulgence in bad language, to think to himself
with a shudder when he received any mark of favour, "Ah! they little suspect I'm the boy who
said 'd----n.'" But at seven years old he went to Christ's Hospital, and continued there for
another seven. His reminiscences of that seminary, put down pretty early, and afterwards embodied
in the "Autobiography," are even better known from the fact that they served as a text, and
as the occasion of a little gentle raillery, to Elia's famous essay than in themselves. For
some years after leaving school he did nothing definite but write verses, which his father
(who seems to have been gifted with a plentiful lack of judgment in most incidents and relations
of life) published when the boy was but sixteen. They are as nearly as possible valueless,
but they went through three editions in a very short time. It ought to be remembered that except
Cowper, who was just dead, and Crabbe, who had for years intermitted writing, the public had
only Rogers and Southey for poets, for it would none of the "Lyrical Ballads," and the "Lay
of the Last Minstrel" had not yet been published. So that it did not make one of its worst
mistakes in taking up Leigh Hunt, who certainly had poetry in him, if he did not put it forth
quite so early as this. He was made a kind of lion, but, fortunately or unfortunately for him,
only in middle-class circles where there were no patrons. He was quite an old man--nearly twenty--when
he made regular entry into the periodical writing which kept him (with the aid of his friends)
for nearly sixty years. "Mr. Town, Junior" (altered from an old signature of Colman's) contributed
theatrical criticisms, which do not seem to have been paid for, to an evening paper, the Traveller,
now surviving as a second title to the Globe. His bent in this direction was assisted by the
fact that his elder brother John had been apprenticed to a printer, and had desires to be a
publisher. In January 1808 the two brothers started the Examiner, and Leigh Hunt edited it
with a great deal of courage for fourteen years. He threw away for this the only piece of solid
preferment that he ever had, a clerkship in the War Office which Addington gave him. The references
to this act of recklessness or self-sacrifice in the Autobiography are rather enigmatical.
His two functions were no doubt incompatible at best, especially considering the violent Opposition
tone which the Examiner took. But Leigh Hunt, whatever faults he had, was not quite a hypocrite;
and he hints pretty broadly that if he had not resigned he might have been asked to do so,
not from any political reasons, but simply because he did his work very badly. He was much
more at home in the Examiner (with which for a short time was joined the quarterly Reflector),
though his warmest admirers candidly admit that he knew nothing about politics. In 1809 he
married a Miss Marianne Kent, whose station was not very exalted, and whose son admits with
unusual frankness that she was "the reverse of handsome, and without accomplishments," adding
rather whimsically that this person, "the reverse of handsome," had "a pretty figure, beautiful
black hair and magnificent eyes," and though "without accomplishments" had "a very strong natural
turn for plastic art." At any rate she seems to have suited Leigh Hunt admirably. The Examiner
soon became ill-noted with Government, but it was not till the end of 1812 that a grip could
be got of it. Leigh Hunt's offence is in the ordinary books rather undervalued. That he (or
his contributor) called the Prince Regent, as is commonly said, "a fat Adonis of fifty" (the
exact words are, "this Adonis in loveliness is a corpulent man of fifty") may have been the
chief sting, but was certainly not the chief legal offence. Leigh Hunt called the ruler of
his country "a violator of his word, a libertine over head and ears in disgrace, a despiser
of domestic ties, the companion of demi-reps, a man who had just closed half a century without
one single claim on the gratitude of his country or the respect of posterity." It might be
true or it might be false; but certainly there was then not a country in Europe where it would
have been allowed to be said of the chief of the state. And I am not sure that it could be
said now anywhere but in Ireland, where considerably worse things were said with impunity of
Lord Spencer and Sir George Trevelyan. At any rate the brothers were prosecuted and fined five
hundred pounds each, with two years' imprisonment. The sentence was carried out; but Leigh
Hunt's imprisonment in Horsemonger Lane Gaol was the merest farce of incarceration. He could
not indeed go beyond the prison walls. But he had a comfortable suite of rooms which he was
permitted to furnish and decorate just as he liked; he was allowed to have his wife and family
with him; he had a tiny garden of his own, and free access to that of the prison; there was
no restriction on visitors, who brought him presents just as they chose; and he became a kind
of fashion with the Opposition. Jeremy Bentham came and played at battledore and shuttlecock
with him--an almost appalling idea, for it will not do to trust too implicitly to Leigh Hunt's
declaration that Jeremy's object was to suggest "an improvement in the constitution of shuttlecocks."
The Examiner itself continued undisturbed, and except for the "I can't get out" feeling, which
even of itself cannot be compared for one moment to that of a modern prisoner condemned to
his cell and the exercising-ground, it is rather difficult to see much reason for Leigh Hunt's
complaints. The imprisonment may have affected his health, but it certainly brought him troops
of friends, and gave him leisure to do not only his journalist's work, but things much more
serious. Here he wrote and published his first poem since the Juvenilia, "A Feast of the Poets"
(not much of a thing), and here he wrote, though he did not publish it till his liberation,
the "Story of Rimini," by far his most important poem, both for intrinsic character and for
influence on others. He had known Lamb from boyhood, and Shelley some years; he now made the
acquaintance of Keats, Hazlitt, and Byron.

In the next five years after his liberation he did a great deal of work, the best by far being
the periodical called the Indicator, a weekly paper which ran for sixty-six numbers. The Indicator
was the first thing that I ever read of Hunt's, and, by no means for that reason only, I think
it the best. Its buttonholing papers, of a kind since widely imitated, were the most popular;
but there are romantic things in it, such as "The Daughter of Hippocrates" (paraphrased and
expanded from Sir John Mandeville with Hunt's peculiar skill), which seem to me better. It
was at the end of these five years that Leigh Hunt resolved upon the second adventure (his
imprisonment being the first and involuntary) of his otherwise easy-going life--an adventure
the immediate consequences of which were unfortunate in many ways, but which supplied him with
a good deal of literary material. This was his visit to Italy as a kind of literary attaché
to Lord Byron, and editor of a quarterly magazine, the Liberal. The idea was Shelley's, and
if Shelley had lived, it might not have resulted quite so disastrously, for Shelley was absolutely
untiring as a helper of lame dogs over stiles. As it was, the excursion distinctly contradicted
the saying (condemned by some as immoral) that a bad beginning makes a good ending. The Hunt
family, which now included several children, embarked, in November of all months in the year,
on a small ship bound for Italy. They were something like a month getting down the Channel
in tremendous weather, and at last when their ship had to turn tail from near Scilly and run
into Dartmouth, Hunt, whose wife was extremely ill of lung-disease, made up his mind to stay
for the winter in Devonshire. He passed the time pleasantly enough at Plymouth, which they
left once more in May 1822, reaching Leghorn at the end of June. Shelley's death happened within
ten days of their arrival, and Byron and Leigh Hunt were left to get on together. How badly
they got on is pretty generally known, might have been foreseen from the beginning, and is
not very profitable to dwell on. Leigh Hunt's mixture of familiarity and "airs" could not have
been worse mixed to suit the taste of Byron. The "noble poet" too was not a person who liked
to be spunged upon; and his coolest admirers may sympathise with his disgust when he found
that he had upon his hands a man of letters with a large family whom he was literally expected
to keep, whose society was disagreeable to him, who lampooned his friends, who differed with
him on every point of taste, and who did not think it necessary to be grateful. For Leigh Hunt,
somewhat on Lamb's system of compensation for coming late by going away early, combined his
readiness to receive favours with a practice of not acknowledging the slightest obligation
for them. Byron's departure for Greece was in its way lucky, but it left Hunt stranded. He
remained in Italy for rather more than three years and then returned home across the Continent.
The Liberal, which contains work of his, of Byron's, of Shelley's, and of Hazlitt's, is interesting
enough and worth buying in its original form, but it did not pay. Of the unlucky book on his
relations with Byron which followed--the worst act by far of his life--I shall not say much.
No one has attempted to defend it, and he himself apologises for it frankly and fully in his
Autobiography. It is impossible, however, not to remark that the offence was much aggravated
by its deliberate character. For the book was not published in the heat of the moment, but
three years after Hunt's return to England and four after Byron's death.

The remaining thirty years of Hunt's life were wholly literary. As for residences, he hovered
about London, living successively at Highgate, Epsom, Brompton, Chelsea, Kensington, and divers
other places. At Chelsea he was very intimate with the Carlyles, and, while he was perhaps
of all living men of letters most leniently judged by those not particularly lenient judges,
we have nowhere such vivid glimpses of Hunt's peculiar weaknesses as in the memoirs of Carlyle
and his wife. Why Leigh Hunt was always in such difficulties is not at first obvious, for he
was the reverse of an idle man; he seems, though thriftless, to have been by no means very
sumptuous in his way of living; everybody helped him, and his writing was always popular. He
appears to have felt not a little sore that nothing was done for him when his political friends
came into power after the Reform Bill--and remained there for almost the whole of the rest
of his life. He had certainly in some senses borne the burden and heat of the day for Liberalism.
But he was one of those reckless people who, without meaning to offend anybody in particular,
offend friends as well as foes; the days of sinecures were even then passing or passed; and
it is very difficult to conceive any office, even with the lightest duties, in which Leigh
Hunt would not have come to grief. As for his writing, his son's earnest plea as to his not
being an idle man is no doubt true enough, but he never seems to have reconciled himself to
the regular drudgery of miscellaneous article writing for newspapers which is almost the only
kind of journalism that really pays, and his books did not sell very largely. In his latter
days, however, things became easier for him. The unfailing kindness of the Shelley family gave
him (in 1844 when Sir Percy Shelley came into his property) a regular annuity of £120; two
royal gifts of £200 each and in 1847 a pension of the same amount were added; and two benefit
nights of Dickens's famous amateur company brought him in something like a cool thousand, as
Dickens himself would have said. Of his last years Mr. Kent, who was intimate with him, gives
much the pleasantest account known to me. He died on 28th August 1859, surviving his wife only
two years.

I can imagine some one, at the name of Dickens in the preceding paragraph, thinking or saying,
that if the author of Bleak House raised a thousand pounds for his old friend, he took the
value of it and infinitely more out of him. It is impossible to shirk the Skimpole affair in
any really critical notice of Leigh Hunt. To put unpleasant things briefly, that famous character
was at once recognised by every one as a caricature, perhaps ill-natured but certainly brilliant,
of what an enemy might have said of the author of "Rimini." Thornton Hunt, the eldest of Leigh
Hunt's children, and a writer of no small power, took the matter up and forced from Dickens
a contradiction, or disavowal, with which I am afraid the recording angel must have had some
little difficulty. Strangely enough the last words of Macaulay's that we have concern this
affair; and they may be quoted as Sir George Trevelyan gives them, written by his uncle in
those days at Holly Lodge when the shadow of death was heavy on him.

    December 23, 1859. An odd declaration by Dickens that he did
    not mean Leigh Hunt by Harold Skimpole. Yet he owns that he took
    the light externals of the character from Leigh Hunt, and surely
    it is by those light externals that the bulk of mankind will
    always recognise character. Besides, it is to be observed that
    the vices of H. S. are vices to which L. H. had, to say the
    least, some little leaning, and which the world generally
    attributed to him most unsparingly. That he had loose notions of
    meum and tuum; that he had no high feeling of independence;
    that he had no sense of obligation; that he took money wherever
    he could get it; that he felt no gratitude for it; that he was
    just as ready to defame a person who had relieved his distress
    as a person who had refused him relief--these were things which,
    as Dickens must have known, were said, truly or falsely, about
    L. H., and had made a deep impression on the public mind.

Now Macaulay has not always been leniently judged; but I do not think that, with the single
exception of Croker's case, he can be accused of having borne hardly on the moral character
of any one of his contemporaries. He had befriended Leigh Hunt in every way; he had got him
into the Edinburgh; he had lent (that is to say given) him money freely, and I do not think
that his fiercest enemy can seriously think that he bore Hunt a grudge for having told him,
as he himself records, that the "Lays" were not so good as Spenser, whom Macaulay in one of
the rare lapses of his memory had unjustly blasphemed, and whom Leigh Hunt adored. To my mind,
if there were any doubt about Dickens's intention, or about the fitting in a certain sense
of the cap, this testimony of Macaulay's would settle it. But I cannot conceive any doubt remaining
in the mind of any person who has read Leigh Hunt's works, who has even read the Autobiography.
Of the grossest faults in Skimpole's character, such as the selling of Jo's secret, Leigh Hunt
was indeed incapable, and the insertion of these is at once a blot on Dickens's memory and
a kind of excuse for his disclaimer; but as regards the lighter touches the likeness is unmistakable.
Skimpole's most elaborate jests about "pounds" are hardly an exaggeration of the man who gravely
and more than once tells us that his difficulties and irregularities with money came from a
congenital incapacity to appreciate arithmetic, and who admits that Shelley (whose affairs
he knew very well) once gave him no less than fourteen hundred pounds (that is to say some
sixteen months of Shelley's income at his wealthiest) to clear him, and that he was not cleared,
though apparently he gave Shelley to understand that he was.

There are many excuses for him which Skimpole had not. His own pleas of tropical blood and
so forth will not greatly avail. But the old patron-theory and its more subtle transformation
(the influence of which is sometimes shown even by Thackeray in the act of denouncing it),
to the effect that the State or the public, or somebody, is bound to look after your man of
genius, had bitten deep into the being of the literary man of our grandfathers' time. Anybody
who has read Thomas Poole and his Friends must have seen how not merely Coleridge, of whose
known liability to the weakness the book furnished new proofs, but even, to some extent and
vicariously, the austere Wordsworth, cherished the idea. But for the most part, men kept it
to themselves. Leigh Hunt never could keep anything to himself, and he has left record on record
of the easy manner in which he acted on his beliefs.

For this I own that I care little, especially since he never borrowed money of me. There is
a Statute of Limitations for all such things in letters as well as in law. What is much harder
to forgive is the ill-bred pertness, often if not always innocent enough in intention, but
rather the worse than the better for that, which mars so much of his actual literary work.
When almost an old man he wrote--when a very old man he quotes, with childlike surprise that
any one should see anything objectionable in them--the following lines:

    Perhaps you have known what it is to feel longings,
    To pat buxom shoulders at routs and mad throngings--
    Well--think what it was at a vision like that!
    A grace after dinner! a Venus grown fat!

It would be almost unbelievable of any man but Leigh Hunt that he placidly remarks in reference
to this impertinence that "he had not the pleasure of Lady Blessington's acquaintance," as
if that did not make things ten times worse. He had laid the foundation of not a few of the
literary enmities he suffered from, by writing, thirty years earlier, a "Feast of the Poets,"
on the pattern of Suckling, in which he took, though much more excusably, the same kind of
ill-bred liberties; and similar things abound in his works. It is scarcely surprising that
the good Macvey Napier (rather awkwardly, and giving Macaulay much trouble to patch things
up) should have said that he would like a "gentleman-like" article from Mr. Hunt for the Edinburgh;
and the taunt about the Cockney School undoubtedly derived its venom from this weakness of
his. Lamb was not descended from the kings that long the Tuscan sceptre swayed, and had some
homely ways; Keats had to do with livery-stables, Hazlitt with shady lodging-houses and lodging-house
keepers. But Keats might have been, whatever his weaknesses, his own and Spenser's Sir Calidore
for gentle feeling and conduct; the man who called Lamb vulgar would only prove his own vulgarity;
and Hazlitt, though he had some darker stains on his character than any that rest on Hunt,
was far too potent a spirit for the fire within him not to burn out mere vulgarity. Leigh Hunt
I fear must be allowed to be now and then merely vulgar--a Pogson of talent, of genius, of
immense amiability, of rather hard luck, but still of the Pogsons, Pogsonic.

As I shall have plenty of good to say of him, I may as well despatch at once whatever else
I have to say that is bad, which is little. The faults of taste which have just been noticed
passed easily into occasional, though only occasional, faults of criticism. I do not recommend
anybody who has not the faculty of critical adjustment, and who wants to like Leigh Hunt, to
read his essay on Dante in the Italian Poets. For flashes of crass insensibility to great poetry
it is difficult to match anywhere, and impossible to match in Leigh Hunt. His favourite theological
doctrine, like that of Béranger's hero, was, Ne damnons personne. He did not like monarchy,
and he did not understand metaphysics. So the great poet, who, more than any other great poet
except Shakespeare, grows on those who read him, receives from Leigh Hunt not an honest confession,
like Sir Walter's, that he does not like him, which is perhaps the first honest impression
of the majority of Dante's readers, but tirade upon tirade of abuse and bad criticism. Further,
Leigh Hunt's unfortunate necessity of preserving his own journalism has made him keep a thousand
things that he ought to have left to the kindly shade of the newspaper files--a cemetery where,
thank Heaven, the tombs are not open as in the other city of Dis. The book called Table Talk,
for instance, contains, with a little better matter, chiefly mere rubbish like this section:

    BEAUMARCHAIS

    Beaumarchais, author of the celebrated comedy of "Figaro," an
    abridgment of which has been rendered more famous by the music
    of Mozart, made a large fortune by supplying the American
    republicans with arms and ammunition, and lost it by
    speculations in salt and printing. His comedy is one of those
    productions which are accounted dangerous, from developing the
    spirit of intrigue and gallantry with more gaiety than
    objection; and they would be more unanimously so, if the good
    humour and self-examination to which they excite did not suggest
    a spirit of charity and inquiry beyond themselves.

Leigh Hunt tried almost every conceivable kind of literature, including a historical novel,
Sir Ralph Esher, several dramas (one or two of which, the "Legend of Florence" being the chief,
got acted), and at nearly the beginning and nearly the end of his career two religious works,
or works on religion, an attack on Methodism and "The Religion of the Heart." All this we may
not unkindly brush away, and consider him first as a poet, secondly as a critic, and thirdly
as what can be best, though rather unphilosophically, called a miscellanist.

Few good judges nowadays, I think, would deny that Leigh Hunt had a certain faculty for poetry,
and fewer still would rank it very high. To something like, but less than, the tunefulness
of Moore, he joined a very much better taste in models and an infinitely wider and deeper study
of them. There is no doubt that his versification in "Rimini" (which may be described as Chaucerian
in basis with a strong admixture of Dryden, further crossed and dashed slightly with the peculiar
music of the followers of Spenser, especially Browne and Wither) had a very strong influence
both on Keats and on Shelley, and that it drew from them music much better than itself. This
fluent, musical, many-coloured verse was a capital medium for tale-telling, and Leigh Hunt
is always at his best when he employs it. The more varied measures and the more ambitious aim
of "Captain Sword and Captain Pen" seem to me very much less successful. Not only was Leigh
Hunt far from strong enough for a serious argument, but the cheery, sentimental optimism of
which he was one of the most persevering exponents--the kind of thing which vehemently protests
that in the good time coming nobody shall be damned, or starved, or put in prison, or subjected
to the perils of villainous saltpetre, or prevented from doing just what he likes, and that
all existence ought to be and shortly will be a vaguely refined beer and skittles--did not
lend itself very well to verse. Nor are Hunt's lyrics particularly strong. His best thing by
far is the charming trifle (the heroine being, it has been said and also denied, Mrs. Carlyle)
which he called a "rondeau," though it is not one.

Even here it may be noticed that though the last four lines could hardly be bettered, the second
couplet is rather weak. Some of Leigh Hunt's sonnets, especially that which he wrote on the
Nile in rivalry with Shelley and Keats, are very good.

    It flows through old hushed Egypt and its sands,
    Like some grave mighty thought threading a dream;
    And times and things, as in that vision, seem
    Keeping along it their eternal stands;--
    Caves, pillars, pyramids, the shepherd-bands
    That roamed through the young earth, the glory extreme
    Of high Sesostris, and that southern beam,
    The laughing queen that caught the world's great hands.
    Then comes a mightier silence, stern and strong,
    As of a world left empty of its throng,
    And the void weighs on us; and then we wake,
    And hear the fruitful stream lapsing along
    'Twixt villages, and think how we shall take
    Our own calm journey on for human sake.

This was written in 1818, and I think it will be admitted that the italicised line is a rediscovery
of a cadence which had been lost for centuries, and which has been constantly borrowed and
imitated since.

Every now and then he had touches of something much above his usual style, as in the concluding
lines of the whimsical "flyting," as the Scotch poets of the fifteenth century would have called
it, between the Man and the Fish:

    Man's life is warm, glad, sad, 'twixt loves and graves,
      Boundless in hope, honoured with pangs austere,
    Heaven-gazing; and his angel-wings he craves:
      The fish is swift, small-needing, vague yet clear,
    A cold, sweet, silver life, wrapped in round waves,
      Quickened with touches of transporting fear.

As a rule, however, his poetry has little or nothing of this kind, and he will hold his place
in the English corpus poetarum, first, because he was an associate of better poets than himself;
secondly, because he invented a medium for the poetic tale which was as poetical as Crabbe's
was prosaic; thirdly, because of all persons perhaps who have ever attempted English verse
on their own account, he had the most genuine affection for, and the most intimate and extensive
acquaintance with, the triumphs of his predecessors in poetry. Of prose he was a much less
trustworthy judge, as may be instanced once for all by his pronouncing Gibbon's style to be
bad; but of poetry he could tell with an extraordinary mixture of sympathy and discretion.
And this will introduce us to his second faculty, the faculty of literary criticism, in which
he is, with all his drawbacks, on a level with Coleridge, with Lamb, and with Hazlitt, his
defects as compared with them being in each case made up by compensatory, or more than compensatory,
merits.

How considerable a critic Leigh Hunt was, may be judged from the fact that he himself confesses
the great critical fault of his principal poem--the selection, for amplification and paraphrase,
of a subject which has once for all been treated with imperial and immortal brevity by a great
poet. With equal ingenuousness and equal truth he further confesses that, at the time, he not
only did not see this fault, but was critically incapable of seeing it. For there is that one
comfort about this discomfortable and discredited art of ours, that age at any rate does not
impair it. The first sprightly runnings of criticism are never the best; and in the case of
all really great critics, from Dryden to Sainte-Beuve, the critical faculty has gone on constantly
increasing. The chief examples of Leigh Hunt's critical accomplishment are to be found in the
two books called respectively, Wit and Humour, and Imagination and Fancy, both being selections
from the English poets, with critical remarks interspersed as a sort of running commentary.
But hardly any book of his is quite barren of such examples; for he neither would, nor indeed
apparently could, restrain his desultory fancy from this as from other indulgences. His criticism
is very distinct in kind. It is almost purely and in the strict and proper sense æsthetic--that
is to say, it does hardly anything but reproduce the sensations produced upon Hunt himself
by the reading of his favourite passages. As his sense of poetry was extraordinarily keen and
accurate, there is perhaps no body of "beauties" of English poetry to be found anywhere in
the language which is selected with such uniform and unerring judgment as this or these. Even
Lamb, in his own favourite subjects and authors, misses treasure-trove which Leigh Hunt unfailingly
discovers, as in the now pretty generally acknowledged case of the character of De Flores in
Middleton's "Changeling." And Lamb had a much less wide and a much more crotchety system of
admissions and exclusions. Macaulay was perfectly right in fixing, at the beginning of his
essay on the dramatists of the Restoration, upon this catholicity of Hunt's taste as the main
merit in it; and it is really a great pity that the two volumes referred to were not, as they
were intended to be, followed up by others respectively devoted to Action and Passion, Contemplation,
and Song. But Leigh Hunt was sixty when he planned them, and age, infirmity, perhaps also the
less pressing need which the comparative affluence of his later years brought, prevented the
completion. It has also to be remarked that Hunt is much better as a taster than as a professor
or expounder. He says indeed many happy things about his favourite passages, but they evidently
represent rather afterthought than forethought. He is not good at generalities, and when he
tries them is apt, instead of flying (as an Ariel of criticism should do), to sprawl. Yet it
was impossible for a man who was so almost invariably right in particulars, to go very wrong
in general; and the worst that can be said of Leigh Hunt's general critical axioms and conclusions
is that they are much better than the reasons that support them. For instance, he is probably
right in calling the famous "intellectual" and "henpecked you all" in "Don Juan," "the happiest
triple rhyme ever written." But when he goes on to say that "the sweepingness of the assumption
completes the flowing breadth of the effect," he goes very near to talking nonsense. For most
people, however, a true opinion persuasively stated is of much more consequence than the most
elaborate logical justification of it; and it is this that makes Leigh Hunt's criticism such
excellent good reading. It is impossible not to feel that when a guide (which after all a critic
should be) is recommended with cautions that, though an invaluable fellow for the most part,
he is not unlikely in certain places to lead the traveller over a precipice, it is a very dubious
kind of recommendation. Yet this is the way in which one has to speak of Jeffrey and Hazlitt,
of Wilson and De Quincey. Of Leigh Hunt it need hardly ever be said; for in the unlucky diatribes
on Dante above cited, the most unwary reader can see that his author has lost his temper and
with it his head. As a rule he avoids the things that he is not qualified to judge, such as
the rougher and sublimer parts of poetry. Of its sweetness and its music, of its grace and
its wit, of its tenderness and its fancy, no better judge ever existed than Leigh Hunt. He
jumped at such things, when he came near them, almost as involuntarily as a needle to a magnet.

He was, however, perhaps most popular in his own time, and certainly he gained most of the
not excessive share of pecuniary profit which fell to his lot, as what I have called a miscellanist.
One of the things which have not yet been sufficiently done in the criticism of English literary
history, is a careful review of the successive steps by which the periodical essay of Addison
and his followers during the eighteenth century passed into the magazine-paper of our own days.
The later examples of the eighteenth century, the "Observers" and "Connoisseurs," the "Loungers"
and "Mirrors" and "Lookers-On," are fairly well worth reading in themselves, especially as
the little volumes of the "British Essayists" go capitally in a travelling-bag; but the gap
between them and the productions of Leigh Hunt, of Lamb, and of the Blackwood men, with Praed's
schoolboy attempts not left out, is a very considerable one. Leigh Hunt is himself entitled
to a high place in the new school so far as mere priority goes, and to one not low in actual
merit. He relates himself, more than once, with the childishness which is the good side of
his Skimpolism, how not merely his literary friends but persons of quality had special favourites
among the miscellaneous papers of the Indicator, like (he would certainly have used the parallel
himself if he had known it or thought of it) the Court of France with Marot's Psalms. This
miscellaneous work of his extends, as it ought to do, to all manner of subjects. The pleasantest
example to my fancy is the book called The Town, a gossiping description of London from St.
Paul's to St. James's, which he afterwards followed up with books on the West End and Kensington,
and which, though of course second-hand as to its facts, is by no means uncritical, and by
far the best reading of any book of its kind. Even the Autobiography might take rank in this
class; and the same kind of stuff made up the staple of the numerous periodicals which Leigh
Hunt edited or wrote, and of the still more numerous books which he compounded out of the dead
periodicals. It may be that a severe criticism will declare that, here as well as elsewhere,
he was more original than accomplished; and that his way of treating subjects was pursued with
better success by his imitators than by himself. Such a paper, for instance, as "On Beds and
Bedrooms" suggests (and is dwarfed by the suggestion) Lamb's "Convalescent" and other similar
work. "Jack Abbott's Breakfast," which is, or was, exceedingly popular with Hunt's admirers,
is an account of the misfortunes of a luckless young man who goes to breakfast with an absent-minded
pedagogue, and, being turned away empty, orders successive refreshments at different coffee-houses,
each of which proves a feast of Tantalus. The idea is not bad; but the carrying out suits the
stage better than the study, and is certainly far below such things as Maginn's adventures
of Jack Ginger and his friends, with the tale untold that Humphries told Harlow. "A Few Remarks
on the Rare Vice called Lying" is a most promising title; he must be a very good-natured judge
who finds appended to it a performing article. "The Old Lady" and "The Old Gentleman" were
once great favourites; they seem to have been studied from Earle's Microcosmography, not the
least excellent of the books that have proceeded from foster-children of Walter de Merton,
but they are over-laboured in particulars. So too are "The Adventures of Carfington Blundell"
and "Inside of an Omnibus." Leigh Hunt's humour is so devoid of bitterness that it sometimes
becomes insipid; his narrative so fluent and gossiping that it sometimes becomes insignificant.
His enemies called him immoral, which appears to have been a gross calumny so far as his private
life was concerned, and is certainly a gross exaggeration as regards his writing. But he was
rather too much given to dally about voluptuous subjects with a sort of chuckling epicene triviality.
He is so far from being passionate that he sometimes becomes almost offensive. He is terribly
apt to labour a conceit or a prettiness till it becomes vapid; and his "Criticism on Female
Beauty," though it contains some extremely sensible remarks, also contains much which is suggestive
of Mr. Tupman. Yet his miscellaneous writing has one great merit (besides its gentle playfulness
and its untiring variety) which might procure pardon for worse faults. With no one perhaps
are those literary memories which transform and vivify life so constantly present as with Leigh
Hunt. Although the world was a perfectly real thing to him, and not by any means seen only
through the windows of a library, he took everywhere with him the remembrances of what he had
read, and they helped him to clothe and colour what he saw and what he wrote. Between him,
therefore, and readers who themselves have read a good deal, and loved what they have read
not a little, there is always something in common; and yet probably no bookish writer has been
less resented by his unbookish readers as a thruster of the abominable things--superior knowledge
and superior scholarship--upon them. Some vices of the snob Leigh Hunt undoubtedly had, but
he was never in the least a pretentious snob. He quotes his books not in the spirit of a man
who is looking down on his fellows from a proper elevation, but in the spirit of a kindly host
who is anxious that his guests should enjoy the good things on his table.

It is this sincere and unostentatious love of letters, and anxiety to spread the love of letters,
that is the redeeming point of Leigh Hunt throughout: he is saved quia multum amavit. It was
this which prompted that rather grandiose but still admirable palinode of Christopher North,
in August 1834,--"the Animosities are mortal: but the Humanities live for ever,"--an apology
which naturally enough pleased Hunt very much. He is one of those persons with whom it is impossible
to be angry, or at least to be angry long. "The bailiff who took him was fond of him," it is
recorded of Captain Costigan; and in milder moments the same may be said of the critical bailiffs
who are compelled to "take" Leigh Hunt. Even in his least happy books (such as the "Jar of
Honey from Mount Hybla," where all sorts of matter, some of it by no means well known to the
writer, have been hastily cobbled together) this love, and for the most part intelligent and
animated love, for literature appears. If in another of his least happy attempts, the critical
parts of the already mentioned Stories from the Italian Poets, he is miles below the great
argument of Dante, and if he is even guilty to some extent of vulgarising the lesser but still
great poets with whom he deals, he never comes, even in Dante, to any passage he can understand
without exhibiting such a warmth of enthusiasm and enjoyment that it softens the stoniest readers.
He can gravely call Dante's Hell "geologically speaking a most fantastical formation" (which
it certainly is), and joke clumsily about the poet's putting Cunizza and Rahab in Paradise.
But when he comes to things like "Dolce color d'oriental zaffiro," and "Era già l'ora," it
is hardly possible to do more justice to the subject. The whole description of his Italian
sojourn in the Autobiography is an example of the best kind of such writing. Again, of all
the people who have rejoiced in Samuel Pepys, Leigh Hunt "does it most natural," being indeed
a kind of nineteenth-century Pepys himself, whom the gods had made less comfortable in worldly
circumstances and no man of business, but to whom as a compensation they had given the feeling
for poetry which Samuel lacked. At different times Dryden, Spenser, and Chaucer were respectively
his favourite English poets; and as there was nothing faithless in his inconstancy, he took
up his new loves without ceasing to love the old. It is perhaps rather more surprising that
he should have liked Spenser than that he should have liked the other two; and we must suppose
that the profusion of beautiful pictures in the "Faerie Queen" enabled him, not to appreciate
(for he never could have done that), but to tolerate or pass over the deep melancholy and the
occasional philosophisings of the poet. But the attraction of Dryden and Chaucer for him is
very easily understood. Both are eminently cheerful poets, Dryden with the cheerfulness born
of manly sense, Chaucer with that of youth and abounding animal spirits. Leigh Hunt seems to
have found this cheerfulness as akin to his own, as the vigour of both was complementary and
satisfactory to his own, I shall not say weakness, but fragility. Add yet again to this that
Hunt seems--a thing very rarely to be said of critics--never to have disliked a thing simply
because he could not understand it. If he sometimes abused Dante, it was not merely because
he could not understand him, though he certainly could not, but because Dante trod (and when
Dante treads he treads heavily) on his most cherished prejudices. Now he had not very many
prejudices, and so he had an advantage here also.

Lastly, as he may be read with pleasure, so he may be skipped without shame. There are some
writers whom to skip may seem to a conscientious devotee of letters both wicked and unwise--wicked
because it is disrespectful to them, unwise because it is quite likely to inflict loss on the
reader. Now nobody can ever think of respecting Leigh Hunt; he is not unfrequently amiable,
but never in the least venerable. Even at his best he seldom or never affects the reader with
admiration, only with a mild pleasure. It is at once a penalty for his sins and a compliment
to his good qualities, that to make any kind of fuss over him would be absurd. Nor is there
any selfish risk run by treating him, in the literary sense, in an unceremonious manner. His
writing of all kinds carries desultoriness to the height, and may be begun at the beginning,
or at the end, or in the middle, and left off at any place, without the least risk of serious
loss. He is excellent good company for half an hour, sometimes for much longer; but the reader
rarely thinks very much of what he has said when the interview is over, and never experiences
any violent hunger or thirst for its renewal, though such renewal is agreeable enough in its
way. Such an author is a convenient possession on the shelves: a possession so convenient that
occasionally a blush of shame may suggest itself at the thought that he should be treated so
cavalierly. But this is quixotic. The very best things that he has done hardly deserve more
respectful treatment, for they are little more than a faithful and fairly lively description
of his own enjoyments; the worst things deserve treatment much less respectful. Yet let us
not leave him with a harsh mouth; for, as has been said, he loved the good literature of others
very much, and he wrote not a little that was good literature of his own.

VIII

PEACOCK

In the year 1875 Mr. Bentley conferred no small favour upon lovers of English literature by
reprinting, in compact form and good print, the works of Thomas Love Peacock, up to that time
scattered and in some cases not easily obtainable. So far as the publisher was concerned, nothing
more could reasonably have been demanded; it is not easy to say quite so much of the editor,
the late Sir Henry Cole. His editorial labours were indeed considerably lightened by assistance
from other hands. Lord Houghton contributed a critical preface, which has the ease, point,
and grasp of all his critical monographs. Miss Edith Nicolls, the novelist's granddaughter,
supplied a short biography, written with much simplicity and excellent good taste. But as to
editing in the proper sense--introduction, comment, illustration, explanation--there is next
to none of it in the book. The principal thing, however, was to have Peacock's delightful work
conveniently accessible, and that the issue of 1875 accomplished. The author is still by no
means universally or even generally known; though he has been something of a critic's favourite.
Almost the only dissenter, as far as I know, among critics, is Mrs. Oliphant, who has not merely
confessed herself, in her book on the literary history of Peacock's time, unable to comprehend
the admiration expressed by certain critics for Headlong Hall and its fellows, but is even,
if I do not mistake her, somewhat sceptical of the complete sincerity of that admiration. There
is no need to argue the point with this agreeable practitioner of Peacock's own art. A certain
well-known passage of Thackeray, about ladies and Jonathan Wild, will sufficiently explain
her own inability to taste Peacock's persiflage. As for the genuineness of the relish of those
who can taste him there is no way that I know to convince sceptics. For my own part I can only
say that, putting aside scattered readings of his work in earlier days, I think I have read
the novels through on an average once a year ever since their combined appearance. Indeed,
with Scott, Thackeray, Borrow, and Christopher North, Peacock composes my own private Paradise
of Dainty Devices, wherein I walk continually when I have need of rest and refreshment. This
is a fact of no public importance, and is only mentioned as a kind of justification for recommending
him to others.

Peacock was born at Weymouth on 18th October 1785. His father (who died a year or two after
his birth) was a London merchant; his mother was the daughter of a naval officer. He seems
during his childhood to have done very much what he pleased, though, as it happened, study
always pleased him; and his gibes in later life at public schools and universities lose something
of their point when it is remembered that he was at no university, at no school save a private
one, and that he left even that private school when he was thirteen. He seems, however, to
have been very well grounded there, and on leaving it he conducted his education and his life
at his own pleasure for many years. He published poems before he was twenty, and he fell in
love shortly after he was twenty-two. The course of this love did not run smooth, and the lady,
marrying some one else, died shortly afterwards. She lived in Peacock's memory till his death,
sixty years later, which event is said to have been heralded (in accordance with not the least
poetical of the many poetical superstitions of dreaming) by frequent visions of this shadowy
love of the past. Probably to distract himself, Peacock, who had hitherto attempted no profession,
accepted the rather unpromising post of under-secretary to Admiral Sir Home Popham on board
ship. His mother, in her widowhood, and he himself had lived much with his sailor grandfather,
and he was always fond of naval matters. But it is not surprising to find that his occupation,
though he kept it for something like a year, was not to his taste. He gave it up in the spring
of 1809, and returned to leisure, poetry, and pedestrianism. The "Genius of the Thames," a
sufficiently remarkable poem, was the result of the two latter fancies. A year later he went
to Wales and met his future wife, Jane Griffith, though he did not marry her for ten years
more. He returned frequently to the principality, and in 1812 made, at Nant Gwillt, the acquaintance
of Shelley and his wife Harriet. This was the foundation of a well-known friendship, which
has supplied by far the most solid and trustworthy materials existing for the poet's biography.
It was Wales, too, that furnished the scene of his first and far from worst novel Headlong
Hall, which was published in 1816. From 1815 to 1819 Peacock lived at Marlow, where his intercourse
with Shelley was resumed, and where he produced not merely Headlong Hall but Melincourt (the
most unequal, notwithstanding many charming sketches, of his works), the delightful Nightmare
Abbey (with a caricature, as genius caricatures, of Shelley for the hero), and the long and
remarkable poem of "Rhododaphne."

During the whole of this long time, that is to say up to his thirty-fourth year, with the exception
of his year of secretaryship, Peacock had been his own master. He now, in 1819, owed curtailment
of his liberty but considerable increase of fortune to a long-disused practice on the part
of the managers of public institutions, of which Sir Henry Taylor gave another interesting
example. The directors of the East India Company offered him a clerkship because he was a clever
novelist and a good Greek scholar. He retained his place ("a precious good place too," as Thackeray
with good-humoured envy says of it in "The Hoggarty Diamond") with due promotion for thirty-seven
years, and retired from it in 1856 with a large pension. He had married Miss Griffith very
shortly after his appointment; in 1822 Maid Marian appeared, and in 1823 Peacock took a cottage,
which became after a time his chief and latterly his only residence, at Halliford, near his
beloved river. For some years he published nothing, but 1829 and 1831 saw the production of
perhaps his two best books, The Misfortunes of Elphin and Crotchet Castle. After Crotchet Castle,
official duties and perhaps domestic troubles (for his wife was a helpless invalid) interrupted
his literary work for more than twenty years, an almost unexampled break in the literary activity
of a man so fond of letters. In 1852 he began to write again as a contributor to Fraser's Magazine.
It is rather unfortunate that no complete republication, nor even any complete list of these
articles, has been made. The papers on Shelley and the charming story of Gryll Grange were
the chief of them. The author was an old man when he wrote this last, but he survived it six
years, and died on 23d January 1866, having latterly lived very much alone. Indeed, after Shelley's
death he seems never to have had any very intimate friend except Lord Broughton, with whose
papers most of Peacock's correspondence is for the present locked up.

The enigmas in this passage (where it is undisputed that "English P----" is Peacock) have much
exercised the commentators. That Miss Griffith, after her marriage, while still remaining a
Snowdonian antelope, should also have been a flamingo, is odd enough; but this as well as the
"camelopard" (probably turning on some private jest then intelligible enough to the persons
concerned, but dark to others) is not particularly worth illuminating. The italicised words
describing Peacock's wit are more legitimate subjects of discussion. They seem to me, though
not perhaps literally explicable after the fashion of the duller kind of commentator, to contain
both a very happy description of Peacock's peculiar humour, and a very sufficient explanation
of the causes which have, both then and since, made that humour palatable rather to the few
than to the many. Not only is Peacock peculiarly liable to the charge of being too clever,
but he uses his cleverness in a way peculiarly bewildering to those who like to have "This
is a horse" writ large under the presentation of the animal. His "rascally comparative" fancy,
and the abundant stores of material with which his reading provided it, lead him perpetually
to widen "the wound," till it is not surprising that "the knife" (the particular satirical
or polemical point that he is urging) gets "lost in it." This weakness, if it be one, has in
its different ways of operation all sorts of curious results. One is, that his personal portraits
are perhaps farther removed from faithful representations of the originals than the personal
sketches of any other writer, even among the most deliberate misrepresenters. There is, indeed,
a droll topsy-turvy resemblance to Shelley throughout the Scythrop of Nightmare Abbey, but
there Peacock was hardly using the knife at all. When he satirises persons, he goes so far
away from their real personalities that the libel ceases to be libellous. It is difficult to
say whether Mr. Mystic, Mr. Flosky, or Mr. Skionar is least like Coleridge; and Southey, intensely
sensitive as he was to criticism, need not have lost his equanimity over Mr. Feathernest. A
single point suggested itself to Peacock, that point suggested another, and so on and so on,
till he was miles away from the start. The inconsistency of his political views has been justly,
if somewhat plaintively, reflected on by Lord Houghton in the words, "the intimate friends
of Mr. Peacock may have understood his political sentiments, but it is extremely difficult
to discover them from his works." I should, however, myself say that, though it may be extremely
difficult to deduce any definite political sentiments from Peacock's works, it is very easy
to see in them a general and not inconsistent political attitude--that of intolerance of the
vulgar and the stupid. Stupidity and vulgarity not being (fortunately or unfortunately) monopolised
by any political party, and being (no doubt unfortunately) often condescended to by both, it
is not surprising to find Peacock--especially with his noble disregard of apparent consistency
and the inveterate habit of pillar-to-post joking, which has been commented on--distributing
his shafts with great impartiality on Trojan and Greek; on the opponents of reform in his earlier
manhood, and on the believers in progress during his later; on virtual representation and the
telegraph; on barouche-driving as a gentleman's profession, and lecturing as a gentleman's
profession. But this impartiality (or, if anybody prefers it, inconsistency) has naturally
added to the difficulties of some readers with his works. It is time, however, to endeavour
to give some idea of the gay variety of those works themselves.

Although there are few novelists who observe plot less than Peacock, there are few also who
are more regular in the particular fashion in which they disdain plot. Peacock is in fiction
what the dramatists of the school of Ben Jonson down to Shadwell are in comedy--he works in
"humours." It ought not to be, but perhaps is, necessary to remind the reader that this is
by no means the same thing in essence, though accidentally it very often is the same, as being
a humourist. The dealer in humours takes some fad or craze in his characters, some minor ruling
passion, and makes his profit out of it. Generally (and almost always in Peacock's case) he
takes if he can one or more of these humours as a central point, and lets the others play and
revolve in a more or less eccentric fashion round it. In almost every book of Peacock's there
is a host who is possessed by the cheerful mania for collecting other maniacs round him. Harry
Headlong of Headlong Hall, Esquire, a young Welsh gentleman of means, and of generous though
rather unchastened taste, finding, as Peacock says, in the earliest of his gibes at the universities,
that there are no such things as men of taste and philosophy in Oxford, assembles a motley
host in London, and asks them down to his place at Llanberis. The adventures of the visit (ending
up with several weddings) form the scheme of the book, as indeed repetitions of something very
little different form the scheme of all the other books, with the exception of The Misfortunes
of Elphin, and perhaps Maid Marian. Of books so simple in one way, and so complex in others,
it is impossible and unnecessary to give any detailed analysis. But each contains characteristics
which contribute too much to the knowledge of Peacock's idiosyncrasy to pass altogether unnoticed.
The contrasts in Headlong Hall between the pessimist Mr. Escot, the optimist Mr. Foster, and
the happy-mean man Mr. Jenkison (who inclines to both in turn, but on the whole rather to optimism),
are much less amusing than the sketches of Welsh scenery and habits, the passages of arms with
representatives of the Edinburgh and Quarterly Reviews (which Peacock always hated), and the
satire on "improving," craniology, and other passing fancies of the day. The book also contains
the first and most unfriendly of those sketches of clergymen of the Church of England which
Peacock gradually softened till, in Dr. Folliott and Dr. Opimian, his curses became blessings
altogether. The Reverend Dr. Gaster is an ignoble brute, though not quite life-like enough
to be really offensive. But the most charming part of the book by far (for its women are mere
lay figures) is to be found in the convivial scenes. Headlong Hall contains, besides other
occasional verse of merit, two drinking-songs--"Hail to the Headlong," and the still better
"A Heel-tap! a heel-tap! I never could bear it"--songs not quite so good as those in the subsequent
books, but good enough to make any reader think with a gentle sigh of the departure of good
fellowship from the earth. Undergraduates and Scotchmen (and even in their case the fashion
is said to be dying) alone practise at the present day the full rites of Comus.

Melincourt, published, and indeed written, very soon after Headlong Hall, is a much more ambitious
attempt. It is some three times the length of its predecessor, and is, though not much longer
than a single volume of some three-volume novels, the longest book that Peacock ever wrote.
It is also much more ambitiously planned; the twice attempted abduction of the heiress, Anthelia
Melincourt, giving something like a regular plot, while the introduction of Sir Oran Haut-ton
(an orang-outang whom the eccentric hero, Forester, has domesticated and intends to introduce
to parliamentary life) can only be understood as aiming at a regular satire on the whole of
human life, conceived in a milder spirit than "Gulliver," but belonging in some degree to the
same class. Forester himself, a disciple of Rousseau, a fervent anti-slavery man who goes to
the length of refusing his guests sugar, and an ideologist in many other ways, is also an ambitious
sketch; and Peacock has introduced episodes after the fashion of eighteenth-century fiction,
besides a great number of satirical excursions dealing with his enemies of the Lake school,
with paper money, and with many other things and persons. The whole, as a whole, has a certain
heaviness. The enthusiastic Forester is a little of a prig, and a little of a bore; his friend
the professorial Mr. Fax proses dreadfully; the Oran Haut-ton scenes, amusing enough of themselves,
are overloaded (as is the whole book) with justificative selections from Buffon, Lord Monboddo,
and other authorities. The portraits of Southey, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Canning, and others,
are neither like, nor in themselves very happy, and the heroine Anthelia is sufficiently uninteresting
to make us extremely indifferent whether the virtuous Forester or the roué Lord Anophel Achthar
gets her. On the other hand, detached passages are in the author's very best vein; and there
is a truly delightful scene between Lord Anophel and his chaplain Grovelgrub, when the athletic
Sir Oran has not only foiled their attempt on Anthelia, but has mast-headed them on the top
of a rock perpendicular. But the gem of the book is the election for the borough of One-Vote--a
very amusing farce on the subject of rotten boroughs. Mr. Forester has bought one of the One-Vote
seats for his friend the Orang, and, going to introduce him to the constituency, falls in with
the purchaser of the other seat, Mr. Sarcastic, who is a practical humorist of the most accomplished
kind. The satirical arguments with which Sarcastic combats Forester's enthusiastic views of
life and politics, the elaborate spectacle which he gets up on the day of nomination, and the
free fight which follows, are recounted with extraordinary spirit. Nor is the least of the
attractions of the book an admirable drinking-song, superior to either of those in Headlong
Hall, though perhaps better known to most people by certain Thackerayan reminiscences of it
than in itself:--

    THE GHOSTS

    In life three ghostly friars were we,
    And now three friendly ghosts we be.
    Around our shadowy table placed,
    The spectral bowl before us floats:
    With wine that none but ghosts can taste
    We wash our unsubstantial throats.
    Three merry ghosts--three merry ghosts--three merry ghosts are we:
    Let the ocean be port and we'll think it good sport
      To be laid in that Red Sea.

    With songs that jovial spectres chaunt,
    Our old refectory still we haunt.
    The traveller hears our midnight mirth:
    "Oh list," he cries, "the haunted choir!
    The merriest ghost that walks the earth
    Is now the ghost of a ghostly friar."

In the preface to a new edition of Melincourt, which Peacock wrote nearly thirty years later,
and which contains a sort of promise of Gryll Grange, there is no sign of any dissatisfaction
on the author's part with the plan of the earlier book; but in his next, which came quickly,
he changed that plan very decidedly. Nightmare Abbey is the shortest, as Melincourt is the
longest, of his tales; and as Melincourt is the most unequal and the most clogged with heavy
matter, so Nightmare Abbey contains the most unbroken tissue of farcical, though not in the
least coarsely farcical, incidents and conversations. The misanthropic Scythrop (whose habit
of Madeira-drinking has made some exceedingly literal people sure that he really could not
be intended for the water-drinking Shelley); his yet gloomier father, Mr. Glowry; his intricate
entanglements with the lovely Marionetta and the still more beautiful Celinda; his fall between
the two stools; his resolve to commit suicide; the solution of that awkward resolve--are all
simply delightful. Extravagant as the thing is, its brevity and the throng of incidents and
jokes prevent it from becoming in the least tedious. The pessimist-fatalist Mr. Toobad, with
his "innumerable proofs of the temporary supremacy of the devil," and his catchword "the devil
has come among us, having great wrath," appears just enough, and not too much. The introduced
sketch of Byron as Mr. Cypress would be the least happy thing of the piece if it did not give
occasion for a capital serious burlesque of Byronic verse, the lines, "There is a fever of
the spirit," which, as better known than most of Peacock's verse, need not be quoted. Mr. Flosky,
a fresh caricature of Coleridge, is even less like the original than Mr. Mystic, but he is
much more like a human being, and in himself is great fun. An approach to a more charitable
view of the clergy is discoverable in the curate Mr. Larynx, who, if not extremely ghostly,
is neither a sot nor a sloven. But the quarrels and reconciliations between Scythrop and Marionetta,
his invincible inability to make up his mind, the mysterious advent of Marionetta's rival,
and her residence in hidden chambers, the alternate sympathy and repulsion between Scythrop
and those elder disciples of pessimism, his father and Mr. Toobad--all the contradictions of
Shelley's character, in short, with a suspicion of the incidents of his life brought into the
most ludicrous relief, must always form the great charm of the book. A tolerably rapid reader
may get through it in an hour or so, and there is hardly a more delightful hour's reading of
anything like the same kind in the English language, either for the incidental strokes of wit
and humour, or for the easy mastery with which the whole is hit off. It contains, moreover,
another drinking-catch, "Seamen Three," which, though it is, like its companion, better known
than most of Peacock's songs, may perhaps find a place:--

    Seamen three! What men be ye?
    Gotham's three wise men we be.
    Whither in your bowl so free?
    To rake the moon from out the sea.
    The bowl goes trim, the moon doth shine,
    And our ballast is old wine;
    And your ballast is old wine.

    Who art thou so fast adrift?
    I am he they call Old Care.
    Here on board we will thee lift.
    No: I may not enter there.
    Wherefore so? 'Tis Jove's decree
    In a bowl Care may not be;
    In a bowl Care may not be.

    Fear ye not the waves that roll?
    No: in charmèd bowl we swim.
    What the charm that floats the bowl?
    Water may not pass the brim.

A third song sung by Marionetta, "Why are thy looks so blank, Grey Friar?" is as good in another
way; nor should it be forgotten that the said Marionetta, who has been thought to have some
features of the luckless Harriet Shelley, is Peacock's first lifelike study of a girl, and
one of his pleasantest.

The book which came out four years after, Maid Marian, has, I believe, been much the most popular
and the best known of Peacock's short romances. It owed this popularity, in great part, doubtless,
to the fact that the author has altered little in the well-known and delightful old story,
and has not added very much to its facts, contenting himself with illustrating the whole in
his own satirical fashion. But there is also no doubt that the dramatisation of Maid Marian
by Planché and Bishop as an operetta helped, if it did not make, its fame. The snatches of
song through the novel are more frequent than in any other of the books, so that Mr. Planché
must have had but little trouble with it. Some of these snatches are among Peacock's best verse,
such as the famous "Bramble Song," the great hit of the operetta, the equally well-known "Oh,
bold Robin Hood," and the charming snatch:--

    For the tender beech and the sapling oak,
      That grow by the shadowy rill,
    You may cut down both at a single stroke,
      You may cut down which you will;

    But this you must know, that as long as they grow,
      Whatever change may be,
    You never can teach either oak or beech
      To be aught but a greenwood tree.

This snatch, which, in its mixture of sentiment, truth, and what may be excusably called "rollick,"
is very characteristic of its author, and is put in the mouth of Brother Michael, practically
the hero of the piece, and the happiest of the various workings up of Friar Tuck, despite his
considerable indebtedness to a certain older friar, whom we must not call "of the funnels."
That Peacock was a Pantagruelist to the heart's core is evident in all his work; but his following
of Master Francis is nowhere clearer than in Maid Marian, and it no doubt helps us to understand
why those who cannot relish Rabelais should look askance at Peacock. For the rest, no book
of Peacock's requires such brief comment as this charming pastoral, which was probably little
less in Thackeray's mind than Ivanhoe itself when he wrote Rebecca and Rowena. The author draws
in (it would be hardly fair to say drags in) some of his stock satire on courts, the clergy,
the landed gentry, and so forth; but the very nature of the subject excludes the somewhat tedious
digressions which mar Melincourt, and which once or twice menace, though they never actually
succeed in spoiling, the unbroken fun of Nightmare Abbey.

The Misfortunes of Elphin, which followed after an interval of seven years, is, I believe,
the least generally popular of Peacock's works, though (not at all for that reason) it happens
to be my own favourite. The most curious instance of this general unpopularity is the entire
omission, as far as I am aware, of any reference to it in any of the popular guide-books to
Wales. One piece of verse, indeed, the "War-song of Dinas Vawr," a triumph of easy verse and
covert sarcasm, has had some vogue, but the rest is only known to Peacockians. The abundance
of Welsh lore which, at any rate in appearance, it contains, may have had something to do with
this; though the translations or adaptations, whether faithful or not, are the best literary
renderings of Welsh known to me. Something also, and probably more, is due to the saturation
of the whole from beginning to end with Peacock's driest humour. Not only is the account of
the sapping and destruction of the embankment of Gwaelod an open and continuous satire on the
opposition to Reform, but the whole book is written in the spirit and manner of Candide--a
spirit and manner which Englishmen have generally been readier to relish, when they relish
them at all, in another language than in their own. The respectable domestic virtues of Elphin
and his wife Angharad, the blameless loves of Taliesin and the Princess Melanghel, hardly serve
even as a foil to the satiric treatment of the other characters. The careless incompetence
of the poetical King Gwythno, the coarser vices of other Welsh princes, the marital toleration
or blindness of Arthur, the cynical frankness of the robber King Melvas, above all, the drunkenness
of the immortal Seithenyn, give the humorist themes which he caresses with inexhaustible affection,
but in a manner no doubt very puzzling, if not shocking, to matter-of-fact readers. Seithenyn,
the drunken prince and dyke-warden, whose carelessness lets in the inundation, is by far Peacock's
most original creation (for Scythrop, as has been said, is rather a humorous distortion of
the actual than a creation). His complete self-satisfaction, his utter fearlessness of consequences,
his ready adaptation to whatever part, be it prince or butler, presents itself to him, and
above all, the splendid topsy-turviness of his fashion of argument, make Seithenyn one of the
happiest, if not one of the greatest, results of whimsical imagination and study of human nature.
"They have not"--says the somewhile prince, now King Melvas's butler, when Taliesin discovers
him twenty years after his supposed death--"they have not made it [his death] known to me,
for the best of all reasons, that one can only know the truth. For if that which we think we
know is not truth, it is something which we do not know. A man cannot know his own death. For
while he knows anything he is alive; at least, I never heard of a dead man who knew anything,
or pretended to know anything: if he had so pretended I should have told him to his face that
he was no dead man." How nobly consistent is this with his other argument in the days of his
princedom and his neglect of the embankment! Elphin has just reproached him with the proverb,
"Wine speaks in the silence of reason." "I am very sorry," said Seithenyn, "that you see things
in a wrong light. But we will not quarrel, for three reasons: first, because you are the son
of the king, and may do and say what you please without any one having a right to be displeased;
second, because I never quarrel with a guest, even if he grows riotous in his cups; third,
because there is nothing to quarrel about. And perhaps that is the best reason of the three;
or rather the first is the best, because you are the son of the king; and the third is the
second, that is the second best, because there is nothing to quarrel about; and the second
is nothing to the purpose, because, though guests will grow riotous in their cups in spite
of my good orderly example, God forbid that I should say that is the case with you. And I completely
agree in the truth of your remark that reason speaks in the silence of wine."

Crotchet Castle, the last but one of the series, which was published two years after Elphin
and nearly thirty before Gryll Grange, has been already called the best; and the statement
is not inconsistent with the description already given of Nightmare Abbey and of Elphin. For
Nightmare Abbey is chiefly farce, and The Misfortunes of Elphin is chiefly sardonic persiflage.
Crotchet Castle is comedy of a high and varied kind. Peacock has returned in it to the machinery
of a country house with its visitors, each of whom is more or less of a crotcheteer; and has
thrown in a little romantic interest in the suit of a certain unmoneyed Captain Fitzchrome
to a noble damsel who is expected to marry money, as well as in the desertion and subsequent
rescue of Susannah Touchandgo, daughter of a levanting financier. The charm of the book, however,
which distinguishes it from all its predecessors, is the introduction of characters neither
ridiculous nor simply good in the persons of the Rev. Dr. Folliott and Lady Clarinda Bossnowl,
Fitzchrome's beloved. "Lady Clarinda," says the captain, when the said Lady Clarinda has been
playing off a certain not unladylike practical joke on him, "is a very pleasant young lady;"
and most assuredly she is, a young lady (in the nineteenth century and in prose) of the tribe
of Beatrice, if not even of Rosalind. As for Dr. Folliott, the author is said to have described
him as his amends for his earlier clerical sketches, and the amends are ample. A stout Tory,
a fellow of infinite jest, a lover of good living, an inveterate paradoxer, a pitiless exposer
of current cants and fallacies, and, lastly, a tall man of his hands, Dr. Folliott is always
delightful, whether he is knocking down thieves, or annihilating, in a rather Johnsonian manner,
the economist, Mr. McQuedy, and the journalist, Mr. Eavesdrop, or laying down the law as to
the composition of breakfast and supper, or using strong language as to "the learned friend"
(Brougham), or bringing out, partly by opposition and partly by irony, the follies of the transcendentalists,
the fops, the doctrinaires, and the mediævalists of the party.

The song is good in itself, but it is even more interesting as being the last product of Peacock's
Anacreontic vein. Almost a generation passed before the appearance of his next and last novel,
and though there is plenty of good eating and drinking in Gryll Grange, the old fine rapture
had disappeared in society meanwhile, and Peacock obediently took note of the disappearance.
It is considered, I believe, a mark of barbarian tastes to lament the change. But I am not
certain that the Age of Apollinaris and lectures has yet produced anything that can vie as
literature with the products of the ages of Wine and Song.

Gryll Grange, however, in no way deserves the name of a dry stick. It is, next to Melincourt,
the longest of Peacock's novels, and it is entirely free from the drawbacks of the forty-years-older
book. Mr. Falconer, the hero, who lives in a tower alone with seven lovely and discreet foster-sisters,
has some resemblances to Mr. Forester, but he is much less of a prig. The life and the conversation
bear, instead of the marks of a young man's writing, the marks of the writing of one who has
seen the manners and cities of many other men, and the personages throughout are singularly
lifelike. The loves of the second hero and heroine, Lord Curryfin and Miss Niphet, are much
more interesting than their names would suggest. And the most loquacious person of the book,
the Rev. Dr. Opimian, if he is somewhat less racy than Dr. Folliott, is not less agreeable.
One main charm of the novel lies in its vigorous criticism of modern society in phases which
have not yet passed away. "Progress" is attacked with curious ardour; and the battle between
literature and science, which in our days even Mr. Matthew Arnold waged but as one cauponans
bellum, is fought with a vigour that is a joy to see. It would be rather interesting to know
whether Peacock, in planning the central incident of the play (an "Aristophanic comedy," satirising
modern ways), was aware of the existence of Mansel's delightful parody of the "Clouds." But
"Phrontisterion" has never been widely known out of Oxford, and the bearing of Peacock's own
performance is rather social than political. Not the least noteworthy thing in the book is
the practical apology which is made in it to Scotchmen and political economists (two classes
whom Peacock had earlier persecuted) in the personage of Mr. McBorrowdale, a candid friend
of Liberalism, who is extremely refreshing. And besides the Aristophanic comedy, Gryll Grange
contains some of Peacock's most delightful verse, notably the really exquisite stanzas on "Love
and Age."

The book is the more valuable because of the material it supplies, in this and other places,
for rebutting the charges that Peacock was a mere Epicurean, or a mere carper. Independently
of the verses just named, and the hardly less perfect "Death of Philemon," the prose conversation
shows how delicately and with how much feeling he could think on those points of life where
satire and jollification are out of place. For the purely modern man, indeed, it might be well
to begin the reading of Peacock with Gryll Grange, in order that he may not be set out of harmony
with his author by the robuster but less familiar tones, as well as by the rawer though not
less vigorous workmanship, of Headlong Hall and its immediate successors. The happy mean between
the heart on the sleeve and the absence of heart has scarcely been better shown than in this
latest novel.

I have no space here to go through the miscellaneous work which completes Peacock's literary
baggage. His regular poems, all early, are very much better than the work of many men who have
won a place among British poets. His criticism, though not great in amount, is good; and he
is especially happy in the kind of miscellaneous trifle (such as his trilingual poem on a whitebait
dinner), which is generally thought appropriate to "university wits." But the characteristics
of these miscellanies are not very different from the characteristics of his prose fiction,
and, for purposes of discussion, may be included with them.

Lord Houghton has defined and explained Peacock's literary idiosyncrasy as that of a man of
the eighteenth century belated and strayed in the nineteenth. It is always easy to improve
on a given pattern, but I certainly think that this definition of Lord Houghton's (which, it
should be said, is not given in his own words) needs a little improvement. For the differences
which strike us in Peacock--the easy joviality, the satirical view of life, the contempt of
formulas and of science--though they certainly distinguish many chief literary men of the eighteenth
century from most chief literary men of the nineteenth, are not specially characteristic of
the eighteenth century itself. They are found in the seventeenth, in the Renaissance, in classical
antiquity--wherever, in short, the art of letters and the art of life have had comparatively
free play. The chief differentia of Peacock is a differentia common among men of letters; that
is to say, among men of letters who are accustomed to society, who take no sacerdotal or singing-robe
view of literature, who appreciate the distinction which literary cultivation gives them over
the herd of mankind, but who by no means take that distinction too seriously. Aristophanes,
Horace, Lucian, Rabelais, Montaigne, Saint-Evremond, these are all Peacock's literary ancestors,
each, of course, with his own difference in especial and in addition. Aristophanes was more
of a politician and a patriot, Lucian more of a freethinker, Horace more of a simple pococurante.
Rabelais may have had a little inclination to science itself (he would soon have found it out
if he had lived a little later), Montaigne may have been more of a pure egotist, Saint-Evremond
more of a man of society, and of the verse and prose of society. But they all had the same
ethos, the same love of letters as letters, the same contempt of mere progress as progress,
the same relish for the simpler and more human pleasures, the same good fellowship, the same
tendency to escape from the labyrinth of life's riddles by what has been called the humour-gate,
the same irreconcilable hatred of stupidity and vulgarity and cant. The eighteenth century
has, no doubt, had its claim to be regarded as the special flourishing time of this mental
state urged by many others besides Lord Houghton; but I doubt whether the claim can be sustained,
at any rate to the detriment of other times, and the men of other times. That century took
itself too seriously--a fault fatal to the claim at once. Indeed, the truth is that while this
attitude has in some periods been very rare, it cannot be said to be the peculiar, still less
the universal, characteristic of any period. It is a personal not a periodic distinction; and
there are persons who might make out a fair claim to it even in the depths of the Middle Ages
or of the nineteenth century.

However this may be, Peacock certainly held the theory of those who take life easily, who do
not love anything very much except old books, old wine, and a few other things, not all of
which perhaps need be old, who are rather inclined to see the folly of it than the pity of
it, and who have an invincible tendency, if they tilt at anything at all, to tilt at the prevailing
cants and arrogances of the time. These cants and arrogances of course vary. The position occupied
by monkery at one time may be occupied by physical science at another; and a belief in graven
images may supply in the third century the target, which is supplied by a belief in the supreme
wisdom of majorities in the nineteenth. But the general principles--the cult of the Muses and
the Graces for their own sake, and the practice of satiric archery at the follies of the day--appear
in all the elect of this particular election, and they certainly appear in Peacock. The results
no doubt are distasteful, not to say shocking, to some excellent people. It is impossible to
avoid a slight chuckle when one thinks of the horror with which some such people must read
Peacock's calm statement, repeated I think more than once, that one of his most perfect heroes
"found, as he had often found before, that the more his mind was troubled, the more madeira
he could drink without disordering his head." I have no doubt that the United Kingdom Alliance,
if it knew this dreadful sentence (but probably the study of the United Kingdom Alliance is
not much in Peacock), would like to burn all the copies of Gryll Grange by the hands of Mr.
Berry, and make the reprinting of it a misdemeanour, if not a felony. But it is not necessary
to follow Sir Wilfrid Lawson, or to be a believer in education, or in telegraphs, or in majorities,
in order to feel the repulsion which some people evidently feel for the manner of Peacock.
With one sense absent and another strongly present it is impossible for any one to like him.
The present sense is that which has been rather grandiosely called the sense of moral responsibility
in literature. The absent sense is that sixth, seventh, or eighth sense, called a sense of
humour, and about this there is no arguing. Those who have it, instead of being quietly and
humbly thankful, are perhaps a little too apt to celebrate their joy in the face of the afflicted
ones who have it not; the afflicted ones, who have it not, only follow a general law in protesting
that the sense of humour is a very worthless thing, if not a complete humbug. But there are
others of whom it would be absurd to say that they have no sense of humour, and yet who cannot
place themselves at the Peacockian point of view, or at the point of view of those who like
Peacock. His humour is not their humour; his wit not their wit. Like one of his own characters
(who did not show his usual wisdom in the remark), they "must take pleasure in the thing represented
before they can take pleasure in the representation." And in the things that Peacock represents
they do not take pleasure. That gentlemen should drink a great deal of burgundy and sing songs
during the process, appears to them at the best childish, at the worst horribly wrong. The
prince-butler Seithenyn is a reprobate old man, who was unfaithful to his trust and shamelessly
given to sensual indulgence. Dr. Folliott, as a parish priest, should not have drunk so much
wine; and it would have been much more satisfactory to hear more of Dr. Opimian's sermons and
district visiting, and less of his dinners with Squire Gryll and Mr. Falconer. Peacock's irony
on social and political arrangements is all sterile, all destructive, and the sentiment that
"most opinions that have anything to be said for them are about two thousand years old" is
a libel on mankind. They feel, in short, for Peacock the animosity, mingled with contempt,
which the late M. Amiel felt for "clever mockers."

It is probably useless to argue with any such. It might, indeed, be urged in all seriousness
that the Peacockian attitude is not in the least identical with the Mephistophelian; that it
is based simply on the very sober and arguable ground that human nature is always very much
the same, liable to the same delusions and the same weaknesses; and that the oldest things
are likely to be best, not for any intrinsic or mystical virtue of antiquity, but because they
have had most time to be found out in, and have not been found out. It may further be argued,
as it has often been argued before, that the use of ridicule as a general criterion can do
no harm, and may do much good. If the thing ridiculed be of God, it will stand; if it be not,
the sooner it is laughed off the face of the earth the better. But there is probably little
good in urging all this. Just as a lover of the greatest of Greek dramatists must recognise
at once that it would be perfectly useless to attempt to argue Lord Coleridge out of the idea
that Aristophanes, though a genius, was vulgar and base of soul, so to go a good deal lower
in the scale of years, and somewhat lower in the scale of genius, everybody who rejoices in
the author of "Aristophanes in London" must see that he has no chance of converting Mrs. Oliphant,
or any other person who does not like Peacock. The middle term is not present, the disputants
do not in fact use the same language. The only thing to do is to recommend this particular
pleasure to those who are capable of being pleased by it, and to whom, as no doubt it is to
a great number, it is pleasure yet untried.

It is well to go about enjoying it with a certain caution. The reader must not expect always
to agree with Peacock, who not only did not always agree with himself, but was also a man of
almost ludicrously strong prejudices. He hated paper money; whereas the only feeling that most
of us have on that subject is that we have not always as much of it as we should like. He hated
Scotchmen, and there are many of his readers who without any claim to Scotch blood, but knowing
the place and the people, will say,

    That better wine and better men
    We shall not meet in May,

or for the matter of that in any other month. Partly because he hated Scotchmen, and partly
because in his earlier days Sir Walter was a pillar of Toryism, he hated Scott, and has been
guilty not merely of an absurd and no doubt partly humorous comparison of the Waverley novels
to pantomimes, but of more definite criticisms which will bear the test of examination as badly.
His strictures on a famous verse of "The Dream of Fair Women" are indefensible, though there
is perhaps more to be said for the accompanying gibe at Sir John Millais's endeavour to carry
out the description of Cleopatra in black (chiefly black) and white. The reader of Peacock
must never mind his author trampling on his, the reader's, favourite corns; or rather he must
lay his account with the agreeable certainty that Peacock will shortly afterwards trample on
other corns which are not at all his favourites. For my part I am quite willing to accept these
conditions. And I do not find that my admiration for Coleridge, and my sympathy with those
who opposed the first Reform Bill, and my inclination to dispute the fact that Oxford is only
a place of "unread books," make me like Peacock one whit the less. It is the law of the game,
and those who play the game must put up with its laws. And it must be remembered that, at any
rate in his later and best books, Peacock never wholly "took a side." He has always provided
some personage or other who reduces all the whimsies and prejudices of his characters, even
including his own, under a kind of dry light. Such is Lady Clarinda, who regards all the crotcheteers
of Crotchet Castle with the same benevolent amusement; such Mr. McBorrowdale, who, when he
is requested to settle the question of the superiority or inferiority of Greek harmony and
perspective to modern, replies, "I think ye may just buz that bottle before you." (Alas! to
think that if a man used the word "buz" nowadays some wiseacre would accuse him of vulgarity
or of false English.) The general criticism in his work is always sane and vigorous, even though
there may be flaws in the particular censures; and it is very seldom that even in his utterances
of most flagrant prejudice anything really illiberal can be found. He had read much too widely
and with too much discrimination for that. His reading had been corrected by too much of the
cheerful give-and-take of social discussion, his dry light was softened and coloured by too
frequent rainbows, the Apollonian rays being reflected on Bacchic dew. Anything that might
otherwise seem hard and harsh in Peacock's perpetual ridicule is softened and mellowed by this
pervading good fellowship which, as it is never pushed to the somewhat extravagant limits of
the Noctes Ambrosianæ, so it distinguishes Peacock himself from the authors to whom in pure
style he is most akin, and to whom Lord Houghton has already compared him--the French tale-tellers
from Anthony Hamilton to Voltaire. In these, perfect as their form often is, there is constantly
a slight want of geniality, a perpetual clatter and glitter of intellectual rapier and dagger
which sometimes becomes rather irritating and teasing to ear and eye. Even the objects of Peacock's
severest sarcasm, his Galls and Vamps and Eavesdrops, are allowed to join in the choruses and
the bumpers of his easy-going symposia. The sole nexus is not cash payment but something much
more agreeable, and it is allowed that even Mr. Mystic had "some super-excellent madeira."
Yet how far the wine is from getting above the wit in these merry books is not likely to escape
even the most unsympathetic reader. The mark may be selected recklessly or unjustly, but the
arrows always fly straight to it.

Peacock, in short, has eminently that quality of literature which may be called recreation.
It may be that he is not extraordinarily instructive, though there is a good deal of quaint
and not despicable erudition wrapped up in his apparently careless pages. It may be that he
does not prove much; that he has, in fact, very little concern to prove anything. But in one
of the only two modes of refreshment and distraction possible in literature, he is a very great
master. The first of these modes is that of creation--that in which the writer spirits his
readers away into some scene and manner of life quite different from that with which they are
ordinarily conversant. With this Peacock, even in his professed poetical work, has not very
much to do; and in his novels, even in Maid Marian, he hardly attempts it. The other is the
mode of satirical presentment of well-known and familiar things, and this is all his own. Even
his remotest subjects are near enough to be in a manner familiar, and Gryll Grange, with a
few insignificant changes of names and current follies, might have been written yesterday.
He is, therefore, not likely for a long time to lose the freshness and point which, at any
rate for the ordinary reader, are required in satirical handlings of ordinary life; while his
purely literary merits, especially his grasp of the perennial follies and characters of humanity,
of the ludicrum humani generis which never varies much in substance under its ever-varying
dress, are such as to assure him life even after the immediate peculiarities which he satirised
have ceased to be anything but history.

IX

WILSON

Among those judgments of his contemporaries which make a sort of Inferno
of the posthumous writings of Thomas Carlyle, that passed upon
"Christopher North" has always seemed to me the most interesting, and
perhaps on the whole the fairest. There is enough and to spare of
onesidedness in it, and of the harshness which comes from onesidedness.
But it is hardly at all sour, and, when allowance is made for the point
of view, by no means unjust. The whole is interesting from the literary
side, but as it fills two large pages it is much too long to quote. The
personal description, "the broad-shouldered stately bulk of the man
struck me: his flashing eye, copious dishevelled head of hair, and rapid
unconcerned progress like that of a plough through stubble," is
characteristically graphic, and far the best of the numerous pen
sketches of "the Professor."
    Hence a being all split into precipitous chasms and the wildest
    volcanic tumults; rocks over-grown indeed with tropical
    luxuriance of leaf and flower but knit together at the
    bottom--that was my old figure of speech--only by an ocean of
    whisky punch. On these terms nothing can be done. Wilson seems
    to me always by far the most gifted of our literary men either
    then or still. And yet intrinsically he has written nothing that
    can endure. The central gift was wanting.

Something in the unfavourable part of this must no doubt be set down to the critic's usual
forgetfulness of his own admirable dictum, "he is not thou, but himself; other than thou."
John was quite other than Thomas, and Thomas judged him somewhat summarily as if he were a
failure of a Thomas. Yet the criticism, if partly harsh and as a whole somewhat incomplete,
is true enough. Wilson has written "intrinsically nothing that can endure," if it be judged
by any severe test. An English Diderot, he must bear a harder version of the judgment on Diderot,
that he had written good pages but no good book. Only very rarely has he even written good
pages, in the sense of pages good throughout. The almost inconceivable haste with which he
wrote (he is credited with having on one occasion actually written fifty-six pages of print
for Blackwood in two days, and in the years of its double numbers he often contributed from
a hundred to a hundred and fifty pages in a single month)--this prodigious haste would not
of itself account for the puerilities, the touches of bad taste, the false pathos, the tedious
burlesque, the more tedious jactation which disfigure his work. A man writing against time
may be driven to dulness, or commonplace, or inelegance of style; but he need never commit
any of the faults just noticed. They were due beyond doubt, in Wilson's case, to a natural
idiosyncrasy, the great characteristic of which Carlyle has happily hit off in the phrase,
"want of a tie-beam," whether he has or has not been charitable in suggesting that the missing
link was supplied by whisky punch. The least attractive point about Wilson's work is undoubtedly
what his censor elsewhere describes as his habit of "giving a kick" to many men and things.
There is no more unpleasant feature of the Noctes than the apparent inability of the writer
to refrain from sly "kicks" even at the objects of his greatest veneration. A kind of mania
of detraction seizes him at times, a mania which some of his admirers have more kindly than
wisely endeavoured to shuffle off as a humorous dramatic touch intentionally administered to
him by his Eidolon North. The most disgraceful, perhaps the only really disgraceful, instance
of this is the carping and offensive criticism of Scott's Demonology, written and published
at a time when Sir Walter's known state of health and fortunes might have protected him even
from an enemy, much more from a friend, and a deeply obliged friend such as Wilson. Nor is
this the only fling at Scott. Wordsworth, much more vulnerable, is also much more frequently
assailed; and even Shakespeare does not come off scot-free when Wilson is in his ugly moods.

It need hardly be said that I have no intention of saying that Scott or Wordsworth or Shakespeare
may not be criticised. It is the way in which the criticism is done which is the crime; and
for these acts of literary high treason, or at least leasing-making, as well as for all Wilson's
other faults, nothing seems to me so much responsible as the want of bottom which Carlyle notes.
I do not think that Wilson had any solid fund of principles, putting morals and religion aside,
either in politics or in literature. He liked and he hated much and strongly, and being a healthy
creature he on the whole liked the right things and hated the wrong ones; but it was for the
most part a merely instinctive liking and hatred, quite un-coördinated, and by no means unlikely
to pass the next moment into hatred or liking as the case might be.

These are grave faults. But for the purpose of providing that pleasure which is to be got from
literature (and this, like one or two other chapters here, is partly an effort in literary
hedonism) Wilson stands very high, indeed so high that he can be ranked only below the highest.
He who will enjoy him must be an intelligent voluptuary, and especially well versed in the
art of skipping. When Wilson begins to talk fine, when he begins to wax pathetic, and when
he gets into many others of his numerous altitudes, it will behove the reader, according to
his own tastes, to skip with discretion and vigour. If he cannot do this, if his eye is not
wary enough, or if his conscience forbids him to obey his eyes' warnings, Wilson is not for
him. It is true that Mr. Skelton has tried to make a "Comedy of the Noctes Ambrosianæ," in
which the skipping is done ready to hand. But, with all the respect due to the author of Thalatta,
the process is not, at least speaking according to my judgment, successful. No one can really
taste that eccentric book unless he reads it as a whole; its humours arbitrarily separated
and cut-and-dried are nearly unintelligible. Indeed Professor Ferrier's original attempt to
give Wilson's work only, and not all of that work when it happened to be mixed with others,
seems to me to have been a mistake. But of that further, when we come to speak of the Noctes
themselves.

Wilson's life, for more than two-thirds of it a very happy one and not devoid of a certain
eventfulness, can be summarised pretty briefly, especially as a full account of it is available
in the very delightful work of his daughter Mrs. Gordon. Born in 1785, the son of a rich manufacturer
of Paisley and a mother who boasted gentle blood, he was brought up first in the house of a
country minister (whose parish he has made famous in several sketches), then at the University
of Glasgow, and then at Magdalen College, Oxford. He was early left possessor of a considerable
fortune, and his first love, a certain "Margaret," having proved unkind, he established himself
at Elleray on Windermere and entered into all the Lake society. Before very long (he was twenty-six
at the time) he married Miss Jane Penny, daughter of a Liverpool merchant, and kept open house
at Elleray for some years. Then his fortune disappeared in the keeping of a dishonest relation,
and he had, in a way, his livelihood to make. I say "in a way," because the wind appears to
have been considerably tempered to this shorn but robust lamb. He had not even to give up Elleray,
though he could not live there in his old style. He had a mother who was able and willing to
entertain him at Edinburgh, on the sole understanding that he did not "turn Whig," of which
there was very little danger. He was enabled to keep not too exhausting or anxious terms as
an advocate at the Scottish bar; and before long he was endowed, against the infinitely superior
claims of Sir William Hamilton, and by sheer force of personal and political influence, with
the lucrative Professorship of Moral Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. But even before
this he had been exempted from the necessity of cultivating literature on a little oatmeal
by his connexion with Blackwood's Magazine. The story of that magazine has often been told;
never perhaps quite fully, but sufficiently. Wilson was not at any time, strictly speaking,
editor; and a statement under his own hand avers that he never received any editorial pay,
and was sometimes subject to that criticism which the publisher, as all men know from a famous
letter of Scott's, was sometimes in the habit of exercising rather indiscreetly. But for a
very great number of years, there is no doubt that he held a kind of quasi-editorial position,
which included the censorship of other men's work and an almost, if not quite, unlimited right
of printing his own. For some time the even more masterful spirit of Lockhart (against whom
by the way Mrs. Gordon seems to have had a rather unreasonable prejudice) qualified his control
over "Maga." But Lockhart's promotion to the Quarterly removed this influence, and from 1825
(speaking roughly) to 1835 Wilson was supreme. The death of William Blackwood and of the Ettrick
Shepherd in the last-named year, and of his own wife in 1837 (the latter a blow from which
he never recovered), strongly affected not his control over the publication but his desire
to control it; and after 1839 his contributions (save in the years 1845 and 1848) were very
few. Ill health and broken spirits disabled him, and in 1852 he had to resign his professorship,
dying two years later after some months of almost total prostration. Of the rest of the deeds
of Christopher, and of his pugilism, and of his learning, and of his pedestrian exploits, and
of his fishing, and of his cock-fighting, and of his hearty enjoyment of life generally, the
books of the chronicles of Mrs. Gordon, and still more the twelve volumes of his works and
the unreprinted contributions to Blackwood, shall tell.

It is with those works that our principal business is, and some of them I shall take the liberty
of at once dismissing. His poems are now matters of interest to very few mortals. It is not
that they are bad, for they are not; but that they are almost wholly without distinction. He
came just late enough to have got the seed of the great romantic revival; and his verse work
is rarely more than the work of a clever man who has partly learnt and partly divined the manner
of Burns, Scott, Campbell, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Byron, and the rest. Nor, to my fancy, are
his prose tales of much more value. I read them many years ago and cared little for them. I
re-read, or attempted to re-read, them the other day and cared less. There seems, from the
original prospectus of the edition of his works, to have been an intention of editing the course
of moral philosophy which, with more or fewer variations, obtained him the agreeable income
of a thousand a year or so for thirty years. But whether (as Mrs. Gordon seems to hint) the
notes were in too dilapidated and chaotic a condition for use, or whether Professor Ferrier,
his son-in-law and editor (himself, with Dean Mansel, the last of the exact philosophers of
Britain), revolted at the idea of printing anything so merely literary, or what it was, I know
not--at any rate they do not now figure in the list. This leaves us ten volumes of collected
works, to wit, four of the Noctes Ambrosianæ, four of Essays Critical and Imaginative, and
two of The Recreations of Christopher North, all with a very few exceptions reprinted from
Blackwood. Mrs. Gordon filially groans because the reprint was not more extensive, and without
endorsing her own very high opinion of her father's work, it is possible to agree with her.
It is especially noteworthy that from the essays are excluded three out of the four chief critical
series which Wilson wrote--that on Spenser, praised by a writer so little given to reckless
praise as Hallam, the Specimens of British Critics, and the Dies Boreales,--leaving only the
series on Homer with its quasi-Appendix on the Greek dramatists, and the Noctes themselves.

It must be confessed that the Noctes Ambrosianæ are not easy things to commend to the modern
reader, if I may use the word commend in its proper sense and with no air of patronage. Even
Scotchmen (perhaps, indeed, Scotchmen most of all) are wont nowadays to praise them rather
apologetically, as may be seen in the case of their editor and abridger Mr. Skelton. Like most
other very original things they drew after them a flock of imbecile imitations; and up to the
present day those who have lived in the remoter parts of Scotland must know, or recently remember,
dreary compositions in corrupt following of the Noctes, with exaggerated attempts at Christopher's
worst mannerisms, and invariably including a ghastly caricature of the Shepherd. Even in themselves
they abound in stumbling-blocks, which are perhaps multiplied, at least at the threshold, by
the arbitrary separation in Ferrier's edition of Wilson's part, and not all his part, from
the whole series; eighteen numbers being excluded bodily to begin with, while many more and
parts of more are omitted subsequently. The critical mistake of this is evident, for much of
the machinery and all the characters of the Noctes were given to, not by, Wilson, and in all
probability he accepted them not too willingly. The origin of the fantastic personages, the
creation of which was a perfect mania with the early contributors to Blackwood, and who are,
it is to be feared, too often a nuisance to modern readers, is rather dubious. Maginn's friends
have claimed the origination of the Noctes proper, and of its well-known motto paraphrased
from Phocylides, for "The Doctor," or, if his chief Blackwood designation be preferred, for
the Ensign--Ensign O'Doherty. Professor Ferrier, on the other hand, has shown a not unnatural
but by no means critical or exact desire to hint that Wilson invented the whole. There is no
doubt that the real original is to be found in the actual suppers at "Ambrose's." These Lockhart
had described, in Peter's Letters, before the appearance of the first Noctes (the reader must
not be shocked, the false concord is invariable in the book itself) and not long after the
establishment of "Maga." As was the case with the magazine generally, the early numbers were
extremely local and extremely personal. Wilson's glory is that he to a great extent, though
not wholly, lifted them out of this rut, when he became the chief if not the sole writer after
Lockhart's removal to London, and, with rare exceptions, reduced the personages to three strongly
marked and very dramatic characters, Christopher North himself, the Ettrick Shepherd, and "Tickler."
All these three were in a manner portraits, but no one is a mere photograph from a single person.
On the whole, however, I suspect that Christopher North is a much closer likeness, if not of
what Wilson himself was, yet at any rate of what he would have liked to be, than some of his
apologists maintain. These charitable souls excuse the egotism, the personality, the violence,
the inconsistency, the absurd assumption of omniscience and Admirable-Crichtonism, on the plea
that "Christopher" is only the ideal Editor and not the actual Professor. It is quite true
that Wilson, who, like all men of humour, must have known his own foibles, not unfrequently
satirises them; but it is clear from his other work and from his private letters that they
were his foibles. The figure of the Shepherd, who is the chief speaker and on the whole the
most interesting, is a more debatable one. It is certain that many of Hogg's friends, and,
in his touchy moments he himself, considered that great liberty was taken with him, if not
that (as the Quarterly put it in a phrase which evidently made Wilson very angry) he was represented
as a mere "boozing buffoon." On the other hand it is equally certain that the Shepherd never
did anything that exhibited half the power over thought and language which is shown in the
best passages of his Noctes eidolon. Some of the adventures described as having happened to
him are historically known as having happened to Wilson himself, and his sentiments are much
more the writer's than the speaker's. At the same time the admirably imitated patois and the
subtle rendering of Hogg's very well known foibles--his inordinate and stupendous vanity, his
proneness to take liberties with his betters, his irritable temper, and the rest--give a false
air of identity which is very noteworthy. The third portrait is said to have been the farthest
from life, except in some physical peculiarities, of the three. "Tickler," whose original was
Wilson's maternal uncle Robert Sym, an Edinburgh "writer," and something of a humorist in the
flesh, is very skilfully made to hold the position of common-sense intermediary between the
two originals, North and the Shepherd. He has his own peculiarities, but he has also a habit
of bringing his friends down from their altitudes in a Voltairian fashion which is of great
benefit to the dialogues, and may be compared to Peacock's similar use of some of his characters.
The few occasional interlocutors are of little moment, with one exception; and the only female
characters, Mrs. and Miss Gentle, would have been very much better away. They are not in the
least lifelike, and usually exhibit the namby-pambiness into which Wilson too often fell when
he wished to be refined and pathetic. The "English" or half-English characters, who come in
sometimes as foils, are also rather of the stick, sticky. On the other hand, the interruptions
of Ambrose, the host, and his household, though a little farcical, are well judged. And of
the one exception above mentioned, the live Thomas De Quincey, who is brought in without disguise
or excuse in some of the very best of the series, it can only be said that the imitation of
his written style is extraordinary, and that men who knew his conversation say that the rendering
of that is more extraordinary still.

The same designed exaggeration which some uncritical persons have called Rabelaisian (not noticing
that the very fault of the Noctes is that, unlike Rabelais, their author mixes up probabilities
and improbabilities so that there is a perpetual jarring) is maintained throughout the scenery
and etceteras. The comfortable but modest accommodations of Ambrose's hotels in Gabriel's Road
and Picardy Place are turned into abodes of not particularly tasteful luxury which put Lord
Beaconsfield's famous upholstery to shame, and remind one of what they probably suggested,
Edgar Poe's equally famous and much more terrible sketch of a model drawing-room. All the plate
is carefully described as "silver"; if it had been gold there might have been some humour in
it. The "wax" candles and "silken" curtains (if they had been Arabian Nights lamps and oriental
drapery the same might be said) are always insisted on. If there is any joke here it seems
to lie in the contrast with Wilson's actual habits, which were very simple. For instance, he
gives us a gorgeous description of the apparatus of North's solitary confinement when writing
for Blackwood; his daughter's unvarnished account of the same process agrees exactly as to
time, rate of production, and so forth, but substitutes water for the old hock and "Scots pint"
(magnum) of claret, a dirty little terra-cotta inkstand for the silver utensil of the Noctes,
and a single large tallow candle for Christopher's "floods of light." He carried the whim so
far as to construct for himself--his Noctes self--an imaginary hall-by-the-sea on the Firth
of Forth, which in the same way seems to have had an actual resemblance, half of likeness,
half of contrast, to the actual Elleray, and to enlarge his own comfortable town house in Gloucester
Place to a sort of fairy palace in Moray Place. But that which has most puzzled and shocked
readers are the specially Gargantuan passages relating to eating and drinking. The comments
made on this seem (he was anything but patient of criticism) to have annoyed Wilson very much;
and in some of the later Noctes he drops hints that the whole is mere Barmecide business. Unfortunately
the same criticism applies to this as to the upholstery--the exaggeration is "done too natural."
The Shepherd's consumption of oysters not by dozens but by fifties, the allowance of "six common
kettles-full of water" for the night's toddy ration of the three, North's above-mentioned bottle
of old hock at dinner and magnum of claret after, the dinners and suppers and "whets" which
appear so often;--all these stop short of the actually incredible, and are nothing more than
extremely convivial men of the time, who were also large eaters, would have actually consumed.
Lord Alvanley's three hearty suppers, the exploits of the old member of Parliament in Boz's
sketch of Bellamy's (I forget his real name, but he was not a myth), and other things might
be quoted to show that there is a fatal verisimilitude in the Ambrosian feasts which may, or
may not, make them shocking (they don't shock me), but which certainly takes them out of the
category of merely humorous exaggeration. The Shepherd's "jugs" numerous as they are (and by
the way the Shepherd propounds two absolutely contradictory theories of toddy-making, one of
which, according to the instructions of my preceptors in that art, who lived within sight of
the hills that look down on Glenlivet, is a damnable heresy) are not in the least like the
seze muiz, deux bussars, et six tupins of tripe that Gargamelle so rashly devoured. There are
men now living, and honoured members of society in Scotland, who admit the soft impeachment
of having drunk in their youth twelve or fourteen "double" tumblers at a sitting. Now a double
tumbler, be it known to the Southron, is a jorum of toddy to which there go two wineglasses
(of course of the old-fashioned size, not our modern goblets) of whisky. "Indeed," said a humorous
and indulgent lady correspondent of Wilson's, "indeed, I really think you eat too many oysters
at the Noctes;" and any one who believes in distributive justice must admit that they did.

If, therefore, the reader is of the modern cutlet-and-cup-of-coffee school of feeding, he will
no doubt find the Noctes most grossly and palpably gluttonous. If he be a very superior person
he will smile at the upholstery. If he objects to horseplay he will be horrified at finding
the characters on one occasion engaging in a regular "mill," on more than one corking each
other's faces during slumber, sometimes playing at pyramids like the bounding brothers of acrobatic
fame, at others indulging in leap-frog with the servants, permitting themselves practical jokes
of all kinds, affecting to be drowned by an explosive haggis, and so forth. Every now and then
he will come to a passage at which, without being superfine at all, he may find his gorge rise;
though there is nothing quite so bad in the Noctes as the picture of the ravens eating a dead
Quaker in the Recreations, a picture for which Wilson offers a very lame defence elsewhere.
He must put all sorts of prejudice, literary, political, and other, in his pocket. He must
be prepared not only for constant and very scurrilous flings at "Cockneys" (Wilson extends
the term far beyond the Hunt and Hazlitt school, an extension which to this day seems to give
a strange delight to Edinburgh journalists), but for the wildest heterodoxies and inconsistencies
of political, literary, and miscellaneous judgment, for much bastard verse-prose, for a good
many quite uninteresting local and ephemeral allusions, and, of course, for any quantity of
Scotch dialect. If all these allowances and provisos are too many for him to make, it is probably
useless for him to attempt the Noctes at all. He will pretty certainly, with the Quarterly
reviewer, set their characters down as boozing buffoons, and decline the honour of an invitation
to Ambrose's or The Lodge, to Southside or the tent in Ettrick Forest.

But any one who can accommodate himself to these little matters, much more any one who can
enter into the spirit of days merrier, more leisurely, and if not less straitlaced than our
own, yet lacing their laces in a different fashion, will find the Noctes very delightful indeed.
The mere high jinks, when the secret of being in the vein with them has been mastered, are
seldom unamusing, and sometimes (notably in the long swim out to sea of Tickler and the Shepherd)
are quite admirable fooling. No one who has an eye for the literary-dramatic can help, after
a few Noctes have been read, admiring the skill with which the characters are at once typified
and individualised, the substance which they acquire in the reader's mind, the personal interest
in them which is excited. And to all this, peculiarly suited for an alterative in these solemn
days, has to be added the abundance of scattered and incomplete but remarkable gems of expression
and thought that come at every few pages, sometimes at every page, of the series.

Some of the burlesque narratives (such as the Shepherd's Mazeppa-like ride on the Bonassus)
are inimitably good, though they are too often spoilt by Wilson's great faults of prolixity
and uncertainty of touch. The criticisms, of which there are many, are also extremely unequal,
but not a few very fine passages may be found among them. The politics, it must be owned, are
not good for much, even from the Tory point of view. But the greatest attraction of the whole,
next to its sunshiny heartiness and humour, is to be found in innumerable and indescribable
bits, phrases, sentences, short paragraphs, which have, more than anything out of the dialogues
of the very best novels, the character and charm of actual conversation. To read a Noctes has,
for those who have the happy gift of realising literature, not much less than the effect of
actually taking part in one, with no danger of headache or indigestion after, and without the
risk of being playfully corked, or required to leap the table for a wager, or forced to extemporise
sixteen stanzas standing on the mantelpiece. There must be some peculiar virtue in this, for,
as is very well known, the usual dialogue leaves the reader more outside of it than almost
any other kind of literature.

This peculiar charm is of necessity wanting to the rest of Wilson's works, and in so far they
are inferior to the Noctes; but they have compensatory merits of their own, while, considered
merely as literature, there are better things in them than anything that is to be found in
the colloquies of those men of great gormandising abilities--Christopher North, James Hogg,
and Timothy Tickler. Of the four volumes of Essays Critical and Imaginative, the fourth, on
Homer and his translators, with an unfinished companion piece on the Greek drama, stands by
itself, and has indeed, I believe, been separately published. It is well worth reading through
at a sitting, which cannot be said of every volume of criticism. What is more, it may, I think,
be put almost first in its own division of the art, though whether that division of the art
is a high or low one is another question. I should not myself rank it very high. With Wilson,
criticism, at least here, is little more than the eloquent expression of likes and dislikes.
The long passages in which he deals with the wrath of Achilles and with the love of Calypso,
though subject to the general stricture already more than once passed, are really beautiful
specimens of literary enthusiasm; nor is there anything in English more calculated to initiate
the reader, especially the young reader, in the love at least, if not the understanding, of
Homer. The same enthusiastic and obviously quite genuine appreciation appears in the essay
on the "Agamemnon." But of criticism as criticism--of what has been called tracing of literary
cause and effect, of any coherent and co-ordinated theory of the good and bad in verse and
prose, and the reasons of their goodness or badness, it must be said of this, as of Wilson's
other critical work, that it is to be found nusquam nullibi nullimodis. He can preach (though
with too great volubility, and with occasional faults of taste) delightful sermons about what
he likes at the moment--for it is by no means always the same; and he can make formidable onslaughts
with various weapons on what he dislikes at the moment--which again is not always the same.
But a man so certain to go off at score whenever his likes or dislikes are excited, and so
absolutely unable to check himself whenever he feels tempted thus to go off, lacks the very
first qualifications of the critic:--lacks them, indeed, almost as much as the mere word-grinder
who looks to see whether a plural substantive has a singular verb, and is satisfied if it has
not, and horrified if it has. His most famous sentence "The Animosities are mortal, but the
Humanities live for ever" is certainly noble. But it would have been better if the Humanities
had oftener choked the Animosities at their birth.

Wilson's criticism is to be found more or less everywhere in his collected writings. I have
said that I think it a pity that, of his longest critical attempts, only one has been republished;
and the reason is simple. For with an unequal writer (and Wilson is a writer unequalled in
his inequality) his best work is as likely to be found in his worst book as his worst work
in his best book; while the constant contemplation for a considerable period of one subject
is more likely than anything else to dispel his habits of digression and padding. But the ubiquity
of his criticism through the ten volumes was, in the circumstances of their editing, simply
unavoidable. He had himself superintended a selection of all kinds, which he called The Recreations
of Christopher North, and this had to be reprinted entire. It followed that, in the Essays
Critical and Imaginative, an equally miscellaneous character should be observed. Almost everything
given, and much not given, in the Works is worth consideration, but for critical purposes a
choice is necessary. Let us take the consolidated essay on Wordsworth (most of which dates
before 1822), the famous paper on Lord, then Mr., Tennyson's poems in 1832, and the generous
palinode on Macaulay's "Lays" of 1842. No three papers could better show Wilson in his three
literary stages, that of rather cautious tentative (for though he was not a very young man
in 1818, the date of the earliest of the Wordsworth papers, he was a young writer), that of
practised and unrestrained vigour (for 1832 represents about his literary zenith), and that
of reflective decadence, for by 1842 he had ceased to write habitually, and was already bowed
down by mental sorrows and physical ailments.

In the first paper, or set of papers, it is evident that he is ambitiously groping after a
more systematic style of criticism than he found in practice to be possible for him. Although
he elsewhere scoffs at definitions, he tries to formulate very precisely the genius of Scott,
of Byron, and of Wordsworth; he does his best to connect his individual judgments with these
formulas; he shuns mere verbal criticism, and (to some extent) mere exaltation or depreciation
of particular passages. But it is quite evident that he is ill at ease; and I do not think
that any one now reading the essay can call it a successful one, or can attempt to rank it
with those which, from different points of view, Hazlitt and De Quincey (Hazlitt nearly at
the same time) wrote about Wordsworth. Indeed, Hazlitt is the most valuable of all examples
for a critical comparison with Wilson; both being violent partisans and crotcheteers, both
being animated with the truest love of poetry, but the one possessing and the other lacking
the "tie-beam" of a consistent critical theory.

A dozen years later Wilson had cast his slough, and had become the autocratic, freespoken,
self-constituted dictator, Christopher North. He was confronted with the very difficult problem
of Mr. Tennyson's poems. He knew they were poetry; that he could not help seeing and knowing.
But they seemed to him to be the work of a "cockney" (it would be interesting to know whether
there ever was any one less of a cockney than the author of "Mariana"), and he was irritated
by some silly praise which had been given to them. So he set to work, and perpetrated the queerest
jumble of sound and unsound criticism that exists in the archives of that art, so far as a
humble but laborious student and practitioner thereof knoweth. He could not for the life of
him help admiring "Adeline," "Oriana," "Mariana," "The Ode to Memory." Yet he had nothing but
scorn for the scarcely less exquisite "Mermaid" and "Sea Fairies"--though the first few lines
of the latter, excluded by this and other pseudo-criticism from the knowledge of half a generation
of English readers, equal almost anything that the poet has ever done. And only the lucky memory
of a remark of Hartley Coleridge's (who never went wrong in criticism, whatever he did in life)
saved him from explicitly damning "The Dying Swan," which stands at the very head of a whole
class of poetry. In all this essay, to borrow one of his own favourite words, he simply "plouters"--splashes
and flounders about without any guidance of critical theory. Compare, to keep up the comparative
method, the paper with the still more famous and far more deadly attack which Lockhart made
a little later in the Quarterly. There one finds little, if any, generosity; an infinitely
more cold-blooded and deliberate determination to "cut up." But the critic (and how quaint
and pathetic it is to think that the said critic was the author of "I ride from land to land"
and "When youthful hope is fled") sees his theory of poetry straight before him, and never
takes his eye off it. The individual censures may be just or unjust, but they fit together
like the propositions of a masterpiece of legal judgment. The poet is condemned under the statute,--so
much the worse for the statute perhaps, but that does not matter--and he can only plead No
jurisdiction; whereas with Christopher it is quite different. If he does not exactly blunder
right (and he sometimes does that), he constantly blunders wrong--goes wrong, that is to say,
without any excuse of theory or general view. That is not criticism.

We shall not find matters much mended from the strictly critical point of view, when we come,
ten years later, to the article on the "Lays." Here Christopher, as I hold with all respect
to persons of distinction, is absolutely right. He does not say one word too much of the fire
and life of those wonderful verses, of that fight of all fights--as far as English verse goes,
except Drayton's "Agincourt" and the last canto of "Marmion"; as far as English prose goes,
except some passages of Mallory and two or three pages of Kingsley's--the Battle of the Lake
Regillus. The subject and the swing attracted him; he liked the fight, and he liked the ring
as of Sir Walter at his very best. But he goes appallingly wrong all through on general critical
points.

Yet, according to his own perverse fashion, he never goes wrong without going right. Throughout
his critical work there are scattered the most intelligent ideas, the neatest phrases, the
most appreciative judgments. How good is it to say that "the battle of Trafalgar, though in
some sort it neither began nor ended anything, was a kind of consummation of national prowess."
How good again in its very straightforwardness and simplicity is the dictum "it is not necessary
that we should understand fine poetry in order to feel and enjoy it, any more than fine music."
Hundreds and thousands of these things lie about the pages. And in the next page to each the
critic probably goes and says something which shows that he had entirely forgotten them. An
intelligent man may be angry with Christopher--I should doubt whether any one who is not occasionally
both angry and disgusted with him can be an intelligent man. But it is impossible to dislike
him or fail to admire him as a whole.

There is a third and very extensive division of Wilson's work which may not improbably be more
popular, or might be if it were accessible separately, with the public of to-day, than either
of those which have been surveyed. His "drunken Noctes," as Carlyle unkindly calls them, require
a certain peculiar attitude of mind to appreciate them. As for his criticisms, it is frequently
said, and it certainly would not become me to deny it, that nobody reads criticism but critics.
But Wilson's renown as an athlete, a sportsman, and a lover of nature, who had a singular gift
in expressing his love, has not yet died; and there is an ample audience now for men who can
write about athletics, about sport, and about scenery. Nor is it questionable that on these
subjects he is seen, on the whole, at his best. True, his faults pursue him even here, and
are aggravated by a sort of fashion of the time which made him elaborately digress into politics,
into literature, even (God rest his soul!) into a kind of quasi-professional and professorial
sermonising on morals and theology, in the midst of his sporting articles. But the metal more
attractive of the main subject would probably recommend these papers widely, if they were not
scattered pell-mell about the Essays Critical and Imaginative, and the Recreations of Christopher
North. Speaking generally they fall into three divisions--essays on sport in general, essays
on the English Lakes, and essays on the Scottish Highlands. The best of the first class are
the famous papers called "Christopher North in his Sporting Jacket," and the scattered reviews
and articles redacted in the Recreations under the general title of "Anglimania." In the second
class all are good; and a volume composed of "Christopher at the Lakes," "A Day at Windermere,"
"Christopher on Colonsay" (a wild extravaganza which had a sort of basis of fact in a trotting-match
won on a pony which Wilson afterwards sold for four pounds), and "A Saunter at Grasmere," with
one or two more, would be a thing of price. The best of the third class beyond all question
is the collection, also redacted by the author for the Recreations, entitled "The Moors." This
last is perhaps the best of all the sporting and descriptive pieces, though not the least exemplary
of its authors vagaries; for before he can get to the Moors, he gives us heaven knows how many
pages of a criticism on Wordsworth, which, in that place at any rate, we do not in the least
want; and in the very middle of his wonderful and sanguinary exploits on and near Ben Cruachan,
he "interrupts the muffins" in order to deliver to a most farcical and impertinent assemblage
a quite serious and still more impertinent sermon. But all these papers are more or less delightful.
For the glowing description of, and the sneaking apology for, cat-worrying which the "Sporting
Jacket" contains, nothing can be said. Wilson deliberately overlooks the fact that the whole
fun of that nefarious amusement consists in the pitting of a plucky but weak animal against
something much more strongly built and armed than itself. One may regret the P.R., and indulge
in a not wholly sneaking affection for cock-fighting, dog-fighting, and anything in which there
is a fair match, without having the slightest weakness for this kind of brutality. But, generally
speaking, Wilson is a thoroughly fair sportsman, and how enthusiastic he is, no one who has
read him can fail to know. Of the scenery of loch or lake, of hill or mountain, he was at once
an ardent lover and a describer who has never been equalled. His accustomed exaggeration and
false emphasis are nowhere so little perceptible as when he deals with Ben Cruachan or the
Old Man of Coniston, with the Four Great Lakes of Britain, East and West (one of his finest
passages), or with the glens of Etive and Borrowdale. The accursed influence of an unchastened
taste is indeed observable in the before-mentioned "Dead Quaker of Helvellyn," a piece of unrelieved
nastiness which he has in vain tried to excuse. But the whole of the series from which this
is taken ("Christopher in his Aviary") is in his least happy style, alternately grandiose and
low, relieved indeed by touches of observation and feeling, as all his work is, but hardly
redeemed by them. The depths of his possible fall may also be seen from a short piece which
Professor Ferrier, obligingly describing it as "too lively to be omitted," has adjoined to
"Christopher at the Lakes." But, on the whole, all the articles mentioned in the list at the
beginning of this paragraph, with the capital "Streams" as an addition, with the soliloquies
on "The Seasons," and with part (not the narrative part) of "Highland Storms," are delightful
reading. The progress of the sportsman has never been better given than in "Christopher North
in his Sporting Jacket." In "The Moors" the actual sporting part is perhaps a little spoilt
by the affectation of infallibility, qualified it is true by an aside or two, which so often
mars the Christopherian utterances. But Wilson's description has never been bettered. The thunderstorm
on the hill, the rough conviviality at the illicit distillery, the evening voyage on the loch,
match, if they do not beat, anything of the kind in much more recent books far better known
to the present generation. A special favourite of mine is the rather unceremonious review of
Sir Humphry Davy's strangely over-praised "Salmonia." The passage of utter scorn and indignation
at the preposterous statement of the chief personage in the dialogues, that after an exceptionally
hard day's walking and fishing "half a pint of claret per man is enough," is sublime. Nearly
the earliest, and certainly the best, protest against some modern fashions in shooting is to
be found in "The Moors." In the same series, the visit to the hill cottage, preceding that
to the still, has what it has since become the fashion to call the idyllic flavour, without
too much of the rather mawkish pathos with which, in imitation of Mackenzie and the sensibility-writers
of the last century, Wilson is apt to daub his pictures of rural and humble life. The passages
on Oxford, to go to a slightly different but allied subject, in "Old North and Young North"
(a paper not yet mentioned), may have full appeal to Oxford men, but I can hardly be mistaken
in thinking that outsiders must see at least some of the beauty of them. But the list of specially
desirable things in these articles is endless; hardly one of them can be taken up without discovering
many such, not one of them without discovering some.[15]

And, throughout the whole collection, there is the additional satisfaction that the author
is writing only of what he thoroughly knows and understands. At the Lakes Wilson lived for
years, and was familiar with every cranny of the hills, from the Pillar to Hawes Water, and
from Newby Bridge to Saddleback. He began marching and fishing through the Highlands when he
was a boy, enticed even his wife into perilous pedestrian enterprises with him, and, though
the extent of his knowledge was perhaps not quite so large as he pretends, he certainly knew
great tracts as well as he knew Edinburgh. Nor were his qualifications as a sportsman less
authentic, despite the somewhat Munchausenish appearance which some of the feats narrated in
the Noctes and the Recreations wear, and are indeed intended to wear. His enormous baskets
of trout seem to have been, if not quite so regular as he sometimes makes them out, at any
rate fully historical as occasional feats. As has been hinted, he really did win the trotting-match
on the pony, Colonsay, against a thoroughbred, though it was only on the technical point of
the thoroughbred breaking his pace. His walk from London to Oxford in a night seems to have
been a fact, and indeed there is nothing at all impossible in it, for the distance through
Wycombe is not more than fifty-three miles; while the less certainly authenticated feat of
walking from Liverpool to Elleray (eighty miles at least), without more than a short rest,
also appears to be genuine. Like the heroes of a song that he loved, though he seems to have
sung it in a corrupt text, he could wrestle and fight and jump out anywhere; and, until he
was thoroughly broken by illness, he appears to have made the very most of the not inconsiderable
spare time of a Scotch professor who has once got his long series of lectures committed to
paper, and has nothing to do for the rest of his life but collect bundles of pound notes at
the beginning of each session. All this, joined to his literary gifts, gives a reality to his
out-of-door papers which is hardly to be found elsewhere except in some passages of Kingsley,
between whom and Wilson there are many and most curious resemblances, chequered by national
and personal differences only less curious.

I do not think he was a good reviewer, even after making allowance for the prejudices and partisanships
of the time, and for the monkey tricks of mannerism, which, at any rate in his earlier days,
were incumbent on a reviewer in "Maga." He is too prone to the besetting sins of reviewing--the
right hand defections and left hand fallings off, which, being interpreted, consist first in
expressing agreement or disagreement with the author's views, and secondly in digressing into
personal statements of one's own views of things connected with them instead of expounding
more or less clearly what the book is, and addressing oneself to the great question, Is it
a good or a bad piece of work according to the standard which the author himself strove to
reach? I have said that I do not think he was on the whole a good critic (for a man may be
a good critic and a bad reviewer, though the reverse will hardly stand), and I have given my
reasons. That he was neither a great, nor even a very good poet or tale-teller, I have no doubt
whatever. But this leaves untouched the attraction of his miscellaneous work, and its suitableness
for the purpose of recreation. For that purpose I think it to be among the very best work in
all literature. Its unfailing life and vigour, its vast variety, the healthy and inspiriting
character of the subjects with which in the main it deals, are the characteristics which make
its volumes easy-chair books of the best order. Its beauty no doubt is irregular, faulty, engaging
rather than exquisite, attractive rather than artistically or scientifically perfect. I do
not know that there is even any reason to join in the general lament over Wilson as being a
gigantic failure, a monument of wasted energies and half-developed faculty. I do not at all
think that there was anything in him much better than he actually did, or that he ever could
have polished and sand-papered the faults out of his work. It would pretty certainly have lost
freshness and vigour; it would quite certainly have been less in bulk, and bulk is a very important
point in literature that is to serve as recreation. It is to me not much less certain that
it never would have attained the first rank in symmetry and order. I am quite content with
it as it is, and I only wish that still more of it were easily accessible.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] If I accepted (a rash acceptance) the challenge to name the three very best things in
Wilson I should, I think, choose the famous Fairy's Funeral in the Recreations, the Shepherd's
account of his recovery from illness in the Noctes, and, in a lighter vein, the picture of
girls bathing in "Streams."

X

DE QUINCEY[16]

In not a few respects the literary lot of Thomas De Quincey, both during his life and after
it, has been exceedingly peculiar. In one respect it has been unique. I do not know that any
other author of anything like his merit, during our time, has had a piece of work published
for fully twenty years as his, only for it to be excluded as somebody else's at the end of
that time. Certainly The Traditions of the Rabbins was very De Quinceyish; indeed, it was so
De Quinceyish that the discovery, after such a length of time, that it was not De Quincey's
at all, but "Salathiel" Croly's, must have given unpleasant qualms to more than one critic
accustomed to be positive on internal evidence. But if De Quincey had thus attributed to him
work that was not his, he has also had the utmost difficulty in getting attributed to him,
in any accessible form, work that was his own. Three, or nominally four, editions--one in the
decade of his death, superintended for the most part by himself; another in 1862, whose blue
coat and white labels dwell in the fond memory; and another in 1878 (reprinted in 1880) a little
altered and enlarged, with the Rabbins turned out and more soberly clad, but identical in the
main--put before the British public for some thirty-five years a certain portion of his strange,
long-delayed, but voluminous work. This work had occupied him for about the same period, that
is to say for the last and shorter half of his extraordinary and yet uneventful life. Now,
after much praying of readers, and grumbling of critics, we have a fifth and definitive edition
from the English critic who has given most attention to De Quincey, Professor Masson.[17] I
may say, with hearty acknowledgment of Mr. Masson's services to English literature, that I
do not very much like this last edition. De Quincey, never much favoured by the mechanical
producers of books, has had his sizings, as Byron would say, still further stinted in the matter
of print, margins, and the like; and what I cannot but regard as a rather unceremonious tampering
with his own arrangement has taken place, the new matter being not added in supplementary volumes
or in appendices to the reprinted volumes, but thrust into or between the separate essays,
sometimes to the destruction of De Quincey's "redaction" altogether, and always to the confusion
and dislocation of his arrangement, which has also been neglected in other ways. Still the
actual generation of readers will undoubtedly have before them a fuller and completer edition
of De Quincey than even Americans have yet had; and they will have it edited by an accomplished
scholar who has taken a great deal of pains to acquaint himself thoroughly with the subject.

Will they form a different estimate from that which those of us who have known the older editions
for a quarter of a century have formed, and will that estimate, if it is different, be higher
or lower? To answer such questions is always difficult; but it is especially difficult here,
for a certain reason which I had chiefly in mind when I said just now that De Quincey's literary
lot has been very peculiar. I believe that I am not speaking for myself only; I am quite sure
that I am speaking my own deliberate opinion when I say that on scarcely any English writer
is it so hard to strike a critical balance--to get a clear definite opinion that you can put
on the shelf and need merely take down now and then to be dusted and polished up by a fresh
reading--as on De Quincey. This is partly due to the fact that his merits are of the class
that appeals to, while his faults are of the class that is excused by, the average boy who
has some interest in literature. And there is nothing more unpleasant for les âmes bien nées,
as the famous distich has it, than to find fault in after life with that with which you have
fallen in love at fifteen or sixteen. Yet most unfortunately, just as De Quincey's merits,
or some of them, appeal specially to youth, and his defects specially escape the notice of
youth, so age with stealing steps especially claws those merits into his clutch and leaves
the defects exposed to derision. The most gracious state of authors is that they shall charm
at all ages those whom they do charm. There are others--Dante, Cervantes, Goethe are instances--as
to whom you may even begin with a little aversion, and go on to love them more and more. De
Quincey, I fear, belongs to a third class, with whom it is difficult to keep up the first love,
or rather whose defects begin before long to urge themselves upon the critical lover (some
would say there are no critical lovers, but that I deny) with an even less happy result than
is recorded in one of Catullus's finest lines. This kind of discovery

    Cogit amare minus, nec bene velle magis.

How and to what extent this is the case, it must be the business of this paper to attempt to
show. But first it is desirable to give, as usual, a brief sketch of De Quincey's life. It
need only be a brief one, for the external events of that life were few and meagre; nor can
they be said to be, even after the researches of Mr. Page and Professor Masson, very accurately
or exhaustively known. Before those researches "all was mist and myth" about De Quincey. I
remember as a boy, a year or two after his death, hearing a piece of scandal about his domestic
relations, which seems to have had no foundation whatever, but which pretty evidently was an
echo of the "libel" (published in a short-lived newspaper of the kind which after many years
has again risen to infest London) whereof he complains with perhaps more acrimony than dignity
in a paper for the first time exhumed and reprinted in Professor Masson's edition. Many of
the details of the Confessions and the Autobiography have a singular unbelievableness as one
reads them; and though the tendency of recent biographers has been to accept them as on the
whole genuine, I own that I am rather sceptical about many of them still. Was the ever-famous
Malay a real Malay, or a thing of shreds and patches? Did De Quincey actually call upon the
awful Dean Cyril Jackson and affably discuss with him the propriety of entering himself at
Christ-church? Did he really journey pennilessly down to Eton on the chance of finding a casual
peer of the realm of tender years who would back a bill for him? These are but a few out of
a large number of questions which in idle moods (for the answer to hardly one of them is of
the least importance) suggest themselves; and which have been very partially answered hitherto
even of late years, though they have been much discussed. The plain and tolerably certain facts
which are important in connection with his work may be pretty rapidly summed up.

Thomas de Quincey, or Quincey, was born in Manchester--but apparently not, as he himself thought,
at the country house of Greenhay which his parents afterwards inhabited--on 15th August 1785.
His father was a merchant, well to do but of weak health, who died when Thomas was seven years
old. Of his childhood he has left very copious reminiscences, and there is no doubt that reminiscences
of childhood do linger long after later memories have disappeared. But to what extent De Quincey
gave "cocked hats and canes" to his childish thoughts and to his relations with his brothers
and sisters, individual judgment must decide. I should say, for my part, that the extent was
considerable. It seems, however, pretty clear that he was as a child, very much what he was
all his life--emphatically "old-fashioned," retiring without being exactly shy, full of far-brought
fancies and yet intensely concentrated upon himself. In 1796 his mother moved to Bath, and
Thomas was educated first at the Grammar School there and then at a private school in Wiltshire.
It was at Bath, his headquarters being there, that he met various persons of distinction--Lord
Westport, Lord and Lady Carbery, and others--who figure largely in the Autobiography, but are
never heard of afterwards. It was with Lord Westport, a boy somewhat younger than himself,
that he took a trip to Ireland, the only country beyond Great Britain that he visited. In 1800
he was sent by his guardians to the Manchester Grammar School in order to obtain, by three
years' boarding there, one of the Somerset Exhibitions to Brasenose. As a separate income of
£150 had been left by De Quincey's father to each of his sons, as this income, or part of it,
must have been accumulating, and as the mother was very well off, this roundabout way of securing
for him a miserable forty or fifty pounds a year seems strange enough. But it has to be remembered
that for all these details we have little security but De Quincey himself. However, that he
did go to Manchester, and did, after rather more than two of his three years' probation, run
away is indisputable. His mother was living at Chester, and the calf was not killed for this
prodigal son; but he had liberty given him to wander about Wales on an allowance of a guinea
a week. That there is some mystery, or mystification, about all this is nearly certain. If
things really went as he represents them, his mother ought to have been ashamed of herself,
and his guardians ought to have had, to say the least, an experience of the roughest side of
Lord Eldon's tongue. The wanderings in Wales were followed by the famous sojourn in Soho, with
its waitings at money-lenders' doors, and its perambulations of Oxford Street. Then, by another
sudden revolution, we find De Quincey with two-thirds of his allowance handed over to him and
permission to go to Oxford as he wished, but abandoned to his own devices by his mother and
his guardians, as surely no mother and no guardians ever abandoned an exceptionally unworldly
boy of eighteen before. They seem to have put fifty guineas in his pocket and sent him up to
Oxford, without even recommending him a college, and with an income which made it practically
certain that he would once more seek the Jews. When he had spent so much of his fifty guineas
that there was not enough left to pay caution-money at most colleges, he went to Worcester,
where it happened to be low. He seems to have stayed there, on and off, for nearly six years.
But he took no degree, his eternal caprices making him shun vivâ voce (then a much more important
part of the examination than it is now) after sending in unusually good written papers. Instead
of taking a degree, he began to take opium, and to make acquaintance with the "Lakers" in both
their haunts of Somerset and Westmoreland. He entered himself at the Middle Temple, he may
have eaten some dinners, and somehow or other he "came into his property," though there are
dire surmises that it was by the Hebrew door. At any rate in November 1809 he gave up both
Oxford and London (which he had frequented a good deal, chiefly, he says, for the sake of the
opera of which he was very fond), and established himself at Grasmere. One of the most singular
things about his singular life--an oddity due, no doubt, in part to the fact that he outlived
his more literary associates instead of being outlived by them--is that though we hear much
from De Quincey of other people we hear extremely little from other people about De Quincey.
Indeed what we do so hear dates almost entirely from the last days of his life.

As for the autobiographic details in his Confessions and elsewhere, anybody who chooses may
put those Sibylline leaves together for himself. It would only appear certain that for ten
years he led the life of a recluse student and a hard laudanum-drinker, varied by a little
society now and then; that in 1816 he married Margaret Simpson, a dalesman's daughter, of whom
we have hardly any personal notices save to the effect that she was very beautiful, and who
seems to have been almost the most exemplary of wives to almost the most eccentric of husbands;
that for most of the time he was in more or less ease and affluence (ease and affluence still,
it would seem, of a treacherous Hebraic origin); and that about 1819 he found himself in great
pecuniary difficulties. Then at length he turned to literature, started as editor of a little
Tory paper at Kendal, went to London, and took rank, never to be cancelled, as a man of letters
by the first part of The Confessions of an Opium-Eater, published in the London Magazine for
1821. He began as a magazine-writer, and he continued as such till the end of his life; his
publications in book-form being, till he was induced to collect his articles, quite insignificant.
Between 1821 and 1825 he seems to have been chiefly in London, though sometimes at Grasmere;
between 1825 and 1830 chiefly at Grasmere, but much in Edinburgh, where Wilson (whose friendship
he had secured, not at Oxford, though they were contemporaries, but at the Lakes) was now residing,
and where he was introduced to Blackwood. In 1830 he moved his household to the Scotch capital,
and lived there, and (after his wife's death in 1837) at Lasswade, or rather Polton, for the
rest of his life. His affairs had come to their worst before he lost his wife, and it is now
known that for some considerable time he lived, like Mr. Chrystal Croftangry, in the sanctuary
of Holyrood. But De Quincey's way of "living" at any place was as mysterious as most of his
other ways; and, though he seems to have been very fond of his family and not at all put out
by them, it was his constant habit to establish himself in separate lodgings. These he as constantly
shifted (sometimes as far as Glasgow) for no intelligible reason that has ever been discovered
or surmised, his pecuniary troubles having long ceased. It was in the latest and most permanent
of these lodgings, 42 Lothian Street, Edinburgh, not at Lasswade, that he died on the 8th of
December 1859. He had latterly written mainly, though not solely, for Tait's Magazine and Hogg's
Instructor. But his chief literary employment for at least seven years before this, had been
the arrangement of the authorised edition of his works, the last or fourteenth volume of which
was in the press at the time of his death.

So meagre are the known facts in a life of seventy-four years, during nearly forty of which
De Quincey, though never popular, was still recognised as a great name in English letters,
while during the same period he knew, and was known to, not a few distinguished men. But little
as is recorded of the facts of his life, even less is recorded of his character, and for once
it is almost impossible to discover that character from his works. The few persons who met
him all agree as to his impenetrability,--an impenetrability not in the least due to posing,
but apparently natural and fated. De Quincey was at once egotistic and impersonal, at once
delighted to talk and resolutely shunning society. To him, one is tempted to say, reading and
writing did come by nature, and nothing else was natural at all. With books he is always at
home. A De Quincey in a world where there was neither reading nor writing of books, would certainly
either have committed suicide or gone mad. Pope's theory of the master-passion, so often abused,
justified itself here.

The quantity of work produced during this singular existence, from the time when De Quincey
first began, unusually late, to write for publication, was very large. As collected by the
author, it filled fourteen volumes; the collection was subsequently enlarged to sixteen, and
though the new edition promises to restrict itself to the older and lesser number, the contents
of each volume have been very considerably increased. But this printed and reprinted total,
so far as can be judged from De Quincey's own assertions and from the observations of those
who were acquainted with him during his later years, must have been but the smaller part of
what he actually wrote. He was always writing, and always leaving deposits of his manuscripts
in the various lodgings where it was his habit to bestow himself. The greater part of De Quincey's
writing was of a kind almost as easily written by so full a reader and so logical a thinker
as an ordinary newspaper article by an ordinary man; and except when he was sleeping, wandering
about, or reading, he was always writing. It is, of course, true that he spent a great deal
of time, especially in his last years of all, in re-writing and re-fashioning previously executed
work; and also that illness and opium made considerable inroads on his leisure. But I should
imagine that if we had all that he actually wrote during these nearly forty years, forty or
sixty printed volumes would more nearly express its amount than fourteen or sixteen.

Still what we have is no mean bulk of work for any man to have accomplished, especially when
it is considered how extraordinarily good much of it is. To classify it is not particularly
easy; and I doubt, myself, whether any classification is necessary. De Quincey himself tried,
and made rather a muddle of it. Professor Masson is trying also. But, in truth, except those
wonderful purple patches of "numerous" prose, which are stuck all about the work, and perhaps
in strictness not excepting them, everything that De Quincey wrote, whether it was dream or
reminiscence, literary criticism or historical study, politics or political economy, had one
characteristic so strongly impressed on it as to dwarf and obscure the differences of subject.
It is not very easy to find a description at once accurate and fair, brief and adequate, of
this peculiarity; it is best hinted at in a remark on De Quincey's conversation which I have
seen quoted somewhere (whether by Professor Masson or not I hardly know), that it was, with
many interesting and delightful qualities, a kind of "rigmarole." So far as I remember, the
remark was not applied in any unfriendly spirit, nor is it adduced here in any such. But both
in the printed works, in the remembrances of De Quincey's conversation which have been printed,
in his letters which are exactly like his articles, and in those astonishing imaginary conversations
attributed to him in the Noctes Ambrosianæ, which are said, by good authorities, exactly to
represent his way of talk, this quality of rigmarole appears. It is absolutely impossible for
him to keep to his subject, or any subject. It is as impossible for him to pull himself up
briefly in any digression from that subject. In his finest passages, as in his most trivial,
he is at the mercy of the will-o'-the-wisp of divagation. In his later re-handlings of his
work, he did to some extent limit his followings of this will-o'-the-wisp to notes, but by
no means always; and both in his later and in his earlier work, as it was written for the first
time, he indulged them freely in the text.

For pure rigmarole, for stories, as Mr. Chadband has it, "of a cock and of a bull, and of a
lady and of a half-crown," few things, even in De Quincey, can exceed, and nothing out of De
Quincey can approach, the passages about the woman he met on the "cop" at Chester, and about
the Greek letter that he did not send to the Bishop of Bangor, in the preliminary part of the
Confessions. The first is the more teasing, because with a quite elvish superfluity of naughtiness
he has here indulged in a kind of double rigmarole about the woman and the "bore" in the river,
and flits from one to the other, and from the other to the one (his main story standing still
the while), for half a dozen pages, till the reader feels as Coleridge's auditors must have
felt when he talked about "Ball and Bell, Bell and Ball." But the Greek letter episode, or
rather, the episode about the Greek letter which never was written, is, if possible, more flagrantly
rigmarolish. The-cop-and-bore-and-woman digression contains some remarkable description as
a kind of solace to the Puck-led traveller; the other is bare of any such comfort. The Bishop's
old housekeeper, who was De Quincey's landlady, told him, it seems, that the Bishop had cautioned
her against taking in lodgers whom she did not know, and De Quincey was very angry. As he thought
he could write Greek much better than the Bishop, he meditated expostulation in that language.
He did not expostulate, but he proceeds instead to consider the possible effect on the Bishop
if he had. There was a contemporary writer whom we can imagine struck by a similar whimsy:
but Charles Lamb would have given us the Bishop and himself "quite natural and distinct" in
a dozen lines, and then have dropped the subject, leaving our sides aching with laughter, and
our appetites longing for more. De Quincey tells us at great length who the Bishop was, and
how he was the Head of Brasenose, with some remarks on the relative status of Oxford Colleges.
Then he debates the pros and cons on the question whether the Bishop would have answered the
letter or not, with some remarks on the difference between strict scholarship and the power
of composing in a dead language. He rises to real humour in the remark, that as "Methodists
swarmed in Carnarvonshire," he "could in no case have found pleasure in causing mortification"
to the Bishop, even if he had vanquished him. By this time we have had some three pages of
it, and could well, especially with this lively touch to finish, accept them, though they be
something tedious, supposing the incident to be closed. The treacherous author leads us to
suppose that it is closed; telling us how he left Bangor, and went to Carnarvon, which change
gradually drew his thoughts away from the Bishop. So far is this from being the case, that
he goes back to that Reverend Father, and for two mortal pages more, speculates further what
would happen if he had written to the Bishop, what the Bishop would have said, whether he would
not have asked him (De Quincey) to the Palace, whether, in his capacity of Head of a House,
he would not have welcomed him to that seat of learning, and finally smoothed his way to a
fellowship. By which time, one is perfectly sick of the Bishop, and of these speculations on
the might-have-been, which are indeed by no means unnatural, being exactly what every man indulges
in now and then in his own case, which, in conversation, would not be unpleasant, but which,
gradually and diffusedly set down in a book, and interrupting a narrative, are most certainly
"rigmarole."

Rigmarole, however, can be a very agreeable thing in its way, and De Quincey has carried it
to a point of perfection never reached by any other rigmaroler. Despite his undoubted possession
of a kind of humour, it is a very remarkable thing that he rigmaroles, so far as can be made
out by the application of the most sensitive tests, quite seriously, and almost, if not quite,
unconsciously. These digressions or deviations are studded with quips and jests, good, bad,
and indifferent. But the writer never seems to suspect that his own general attitude is at
least susceptible of being made fun of. It is said, and we can very well believe it, that he
was excessively annoyed at Lamb's delightful parody of his Letters to a Young Man whose Education
has been Neglected; and, on the whole, I should say that no great man of letters in this century,
except Balzac and Victor Hugo, was so insensible to the ludicrous aspect of his own performances.
This in the author of the Essay on Murder may seem surprising, but, in fact, there are few
things of which there are so many subdivisions, or in which the subdivisions are marked off
from each other by such apparently impermeable lines, as humour. If I may refine a little I
should say that there was very frequently, if not generally, a humorous basis for these divagations
of De Quincey's; but that he almost invariably lost sight of that basis, and proceeded to reason
quite gravely away from it, in what is (not entirely with justice) called the scholastic manner.
How much of this was due to the influence of Jean Paul and the other German humorists of the
last century, with whom he became acquainted very early, I should not like to say. I confess
that my own enjoyment of Richter, which has nevertheless been considerable, has always been
lessened by the presence in him, to a still greater degree, of this same habit of quasi-serious
divagation. To appreciate the mistake of it, it is only necessary to compare the manner of
Swift. The Tale of a Tub is in appearance as daringly discursive as anything can be, but the
author in the first place never loses his way, and in the second never fails to keep a watchful
eye on himself, lest he should be getting too serious or too tedious. That is what Richter
and De Quincey fail to do.

Yet though these drawbacks are grave, and though they are (to judge from my own experience)
felt more seriously at each successive reading, most assuredly no man who loves English literature
could spare De Quincey from it; most assuredly all who love English literature would sooner
spare some much more faultless writers. Even that quality of his which has been already noted,
his extraordinary attraction for youth, is a singular and priceless one. The Master of the
Court of the Gentiles, or the Instructor of the Sons of the Prophets, he might be called in
a fantastic nomenclature, which he would have himself appreciated, if it had been applied to
any one but himself. What he somewhere calls his "extraordinary ignorance of daily life" does
not revolt youth. His little pedantries, which to the day of his death were like those of a
clever schoolboy, appeal directly to it. His best fun is quite intelligible; his worst not
wholly uncongenial. His habit (a certain most respected professor in a northern university
may recognise the words) of "getting into logical coaches and letting himself be carried on
without minding where he is going" is anything but repugnant to brisk minds of seventeen. They
are quite able to comprehend the great if mannered beauty of his finest style--the style, to
quote his own words once more, as of "an elaborate and pompous sunset." Such a schoolmaster
to bring youths of promise, not merely to good literature but to the best, nowhere else exists.
But he is much more than a mere schoolmaster, and in order that we may see what he is, it is
desirable first of all to despatch two other objections made to him from different quarters,
and on different lines of thought. The one objection (I should say that I do not fully espouse
either of them) is that he is an untrustworthy critic of books; the other is that he is a very
spiteful commentator on men.

This latter charge has found wide acceptance and has been practically corroborated and endorsed
by persons as different as Southey and Carlyle. It would not in any case concern us much, for
when a man is once dead it matters uncommonly little whether he was personally unamiable or
not. But I think that De Quincey has in this respect been hardly treated. He led such a wholly
unnatural life, he was at all times and in all places so thoroughly excluded from the natural
contact and friction of society, that his utterances hardly partake of the ordinary character
of men's speech. In the "vacant interlunar caves" where he hid himself, he could hardly feel
the restraints that press on those who move within ear-shot and jostle of their fellows on
this actual earth. This is not a triumphant defence, no doubt; but I think it is a defence.
And further, it has yet to be proved that De Quincey set down anything in malice. He called
his literary idol, Wordsworth, "inhumanly arrogant." Does anybody--not being a Wordsworthian
and therefore out of reach of reason--doubt that Wordsworth's arrogance was inhuman? He, not
unprovoked by scant gratitude on Coleridge's part for very solid services, and by a doubtless
sincere but rather unctuous protest of his brother in opium-eating against the Confessions,
told some home truths against that magnificent genius but most unsatisfactory man. A sort of
foolish folk has recently arisen which tells us that because Coleridge wrote "The Ancient Mariner"
and "Kubla Khan," he was quite entitled to leave his wife and children to be looked after by
anybody who chose, to take stipends from casual benefactors, and to scold, by himself or by
his next friend Mr. Wordsworth, other benefactors, like Thomas Poole, who were not prepared
at a moment's notice to give him a hundred pounds for a trip to the Azores. The rest of us,
though we may feel no call to denounce Coleridge for these proceedings, may surely hold that
"The Ancient Mariner" and "Kubla Khan" are no defence to the particular charges. I do not see
that De Quincey said anything worse of Coleridge than any man who knew the then little, but
now well-known facts of Coleridge's life, was entitled to say if he chose. And so in other
cases. That he was what is called a thoughtful person--that is to say that he ever said to
himself, "Will what I am writing give pain, and ought I to give that pain?"--I do not allege.
In fact, the very excuse which has been made for him above is inconsistent with it. He always
wrote far too much as one in another planet for anything of the kind to occur to him, and he
was perhaps for a very similar reason rather too fond of the "personal talk" which Wordsworth
wisely disdained. But that he was in any proper sense spiteful, that is to say that he ever
wrote either with a deliberate intention to wound or with a deliberate indifference whether
he wounded or not, I do not believe.

The other charge, that he was a bad or rather a very untrustworthy critic of books, cannot
be met quite so directly. He is indeed responsible for a singularly large number of singularly
grave critical blunders--by which I mean of course not critical opinions disagreeing with my
own, but critical opinions which the general consent of competent critics, on the whole, negatives.
The minor classical writers are not much read now, but there must be a sufficient jury to whom
I can appeal to know what is to be done with a professed critic of style--at least asserting
himself to be no mean classical scholar--who declares that "Paganism had no more brilliant
master of composition to show than"--Velleius Paterculus! Suppose this to be a mere fling or
freak, what is to be thought of a man who evidently sets Cicero, as a writer, if not as a thinker,
above Plato? It would be not only possible but easy to follow this up with a long list of critical
enormities on De Quincey's part, enormities due not to accidental and casual crotchet or prejudice,
as in Hazlitt's case, but apparently to some perverse idiosyncrasy. I doubt very much, though
the doubt may seem horribly heretical to some people, whether De Quincey really cared much
for poetry as poetry. He liked philosophical poets:--Milton, Wordsworth, Shakespeare (inasmuch
as he perceived Shakespeare to be the greatest of philosophical poets), Pope even in a certain
way. But read the interesting paper which late in life he devoted to Shelley. He treats Shelley
as a man admirably, with freedom alike from the maudlin sentiment of our modern chatterers
and from Puritanical preciseness. He is not too hard on him in any way, he thinks him a pleasing
personality and a thinker distorted but interesting. Of Shelley's strictly poetical quality
he says nothing, if he knew or felt anything. In fact, of lyrical poetry generally, that is
to say of poetry in its most purely poetical condition, he speaks very little in all his extensive
critical dissertations. His want of appreciation of it may supply explanation of his unpardonable
treatment of Goethe. That he should have maltreated Wilhelm Meister is quite excusable. There
are fervent admirers of Goethe at his best who acknowledge most fully the presence in Wilhelm
of the two worst characteristics of German life and literature, bad taste and tediousness.
But it is not excusable that much later, and indeed at the very height of his literary powers
and practice, he should have written the article in the Encyclopædia Britannica on the author
of Faust, of Egmont, and above all of the shorter poems. Here he deliberately assents to the
opinion that Werther is "superior to everything that came after it, and for mere power, Goethe's
paramount work," dismisses Faust as something that "no two people have ever agreed about,"
sentences Egmont as "violating the historic truth of character," and mentions not a single
one of those lyrics, unmatched, or rather only matched by Heine, in the language, by which
Goethe first gave German rank with the great poetic tongues. His severity on Swift is connected
with his special "will-worship" of ornate style, of which more presently, and in general it
may be said that De Quincey's extremely logical disposition of mind was rather a snare to him
in his criticism. He was constantly constructing general principles and then arguing downwards
from them; in which case woe to any individual fact or person that happened to get in the way.
Where Wilson, the "only intimate male friend I have had" (as he somewhere says with a half-pathetic
touch of self-illumination more instructive than reams of imaginative autobiography), went
wrong from not having enough of general principle, where Hazlitt went wrong from letting prejudices
unconnected with the literary side of the matter blind his otherwise piercing literary sight,
De Quincey fell through an unswervingness of deduction more French than English. Your ornate
writer must be better than your plain one, ergo, let us say, Cicero must be better than Swift.

One other curious weakness of his (which has been glanced at already) remains to be noticed.
This is the altogether deplorable notion of jocularity which he only too often exhibits. Mr.
Masson, trying to propitiate the enemy, admits that "to address the historian Josephus as 'Joe,'
through a whole article, and give him a black eye into the bargain, is positively profane."
I am not sure as to the profanity, knowing nothing particularly sacred about Josephus. But
if Mr. Masson had called it excessively silly, I should have agreed heartily; and if any one
else denounced it as a breach of good literary manners, I do not know that I should protest.
The habit is the more curious in that all authorities agree as to the exceptional combination
of scholarliness and courtliness which marked De Quincey's colloquial style and expression.
Wilson's daughter, Mrs. Gordon, says that he used to address her father's cook "as if she had
been a duchess"; and that the cook, though much flattered, was somewhat aghast at his punctilio.
That a man of this kind should think it both allowable and funny to talk of Josephus as "Joe,"
and of Magliabecchi as "Mag," may be only a new example of that odd law of human nature which
constantly prompts people in various relations of life, and not least in literature, to assume
most the particular qualities (not always virtues or graces) that they have not. Yet it is
fair to remember that Wilson and the Blackwood set, together with not a few writers in the
London Magazine--the two literary coteries in connexion with whom De Quincey started as a writer--had
deliberately imported this element of horse-play into literature, that it at least did not
seem to interfere with their popularity, and that De Quincey himself, after 1830, lived too
little in touch with actual life to be aware that the style was becoming as unfashionable as
it had always, save on very exceptional subjects, been ungraceful. Even on Wilson, who was
to the manner born of riotous spirits, it often sits awkwardly; in De Quincey's case it is,
to borrow Sir Walter's admirable simile in another case, like "the forced impudence of a bashful
man." Grim humour he can manage admirably, and he also--as in the passage about the fate which
waited upon all who possessed anything which might be convenient to Wordsworth, if they died--can
manage a certain kind of sly humour not much less admirably. But "Joe" and "Mag," and, to take
another example, the stuff about Catalina's "crocodile papa" in The Spanish Nun, are neither
grim nor sly, they are only puerile. His stanchest defender asks, "why De Quincey should not
have the same license as Swift and Thackeray?" The answer is quick and crushing. Swift and
Thackeray justify their license by their use of it; De Quincey does not. After which it is
hardly necessary to add, though this is almost final in itself, that neither Swift nor Thackeray
interlards perfectly and unaffectedly serious work with mere fooling of the "Joe" and "Mag"
kind. Swift did not put mollis abuti in the Four last years of Queen Anne, nor Thackeray his
Punch jokes in the death-scene of Colonel Newcome. I can quite conceive De Quincey doing both.

And now I have done enough in the fault-finding way, and nothing shall induce me to say another
word of De Quincey in this article save in praise. For praise he himself gives the amplest
occasion; he might almost remain unblamed altogether if his praisers had not been frequently
unwise, and if his exemplar were not specially vitiis imitabile. Few English writers have touched
so large a number of subjects with such competence both in information and in power of handling.
Still fewer have exhibited such remarkable logical faculty. One main reason why one is sometimes
tempted to quarrel with him is that his play of fence is so excellent that one longs to cross
swords. For this and for other reasons no writer has a more stimulating effect, or is more
likely to lead his readers on to explore and to think for themselves. In none is that incurable
curiosity, that infinite variety of desire for knowledge and for argument which age cannot
quench, more observable. Few if any have the indefinable quality of freshness in so large a
measure. You never quite know, though you may have a shrewd suspicion, what De Quincey will
say on any subject; his gift of sighting and approaching new facets of it is so immense. Whether
he was in truth as accomplished a classical scholar as he claimed to be I do not know; he has
left few positive documents to tell us. But I should think that he was, for he has all the
characteristics of a scholar of the best and rarest kind--the scholar who is exact as to language
without failing to comprehend literature, and competent in literature without being slipshod
as to language. His historical insight, of which the famous Cæsars is the best example, was,
though sometimes coloured by his fancy, and at other times distorted by a slight tendency to
supercherie as in The Tartars and The Spanish Nun, wonderfully powerful and acute. He was not
exactly as Southey was, "omnilegent"; but in his own departments, and they were numerous, he
went farther below the surface and connected his readings together better than Southey did.
Of the two classes of severer study to which he specially addicted himself, his political economy
suffered perhaps a little, acute as his views in it often are, from the fact that in his time
it was practically a new study, and that he had neither sufficient facts nor sufficient literature
to go upon. In metaphysics, to which he gave himself up for years, and in which he seems really
to have known whatever there was to know, I fear that the opium fiend cheated the world of
something like masterpieces. Only three men during De Quincey's lifetime had anything like
his powers in this department. Of these three men, Sir William Hamilton either could not or
would not write English. Ferrier could and did write English; but he could not, as De Quincey
could, throw upon philosophy the play of literary and miscellaneous illustration which of all
the sciences it most requires, and which all its really supreme exponents have been able to
give it. Mansel could do both these things; but he was somewhat indolent, and had many avocations.
De Quincey could write perfect English, he had every resource of illustration and relief at
command, he was in his way as "brazen-bowelled" at work as he was "golden-mouthed" at expression,
and he had ample leisure. But the inability to undertake sustained labour, which he himself
recognises as the one unquestionable curse of opium, deprived us of an English philosopher
who would have stood as far above Kant in exoteric graces, as he would have stood above Bacon
in esoteric value. It was not entirely De Quincey's fault. It seems to be generally recognised
now that whatever occasional excesses he may have committed, opium was really required in his
case, and gave us what we have as much as it took away what we have not. But if any one chose
to write in the antique style a debate between Philosophy, Tar-water, and Laudanum, it would
be almost enough to put in the mouth of Philosophy, "This gave me Berkeley and that deprived
me of De Quincey."

De Quincey is, however, first of all a writer of ornate English, which was never, with him,
a mere cover to bare thought. Overpraise and mispraise him as anybody may, he cannot be overpraised
for this. Mistake as he chose to do, and as others have chosen to do, the relative value of
his gift, the absolute value of it is unmistakable. What other Englishman, from Sir Thomas
Browne downwards, has written a sentence surpassing in melody that on Our Lady of Sighs: "And
her eyes, if they were ever seen, would be neither sweet nor subtle; no man could read their
story; they would be found filled with perishing dreams and with wrecks of forgotten delirium"?
Compare that with the masterpieces of some later practitioners. There are no out-of-the-way
words; there is no needless expense of adjectives; the sense is quite adequate to the sound;
the sound is only what is required as accompaniment to the sense. And though I do not know
that in a single instance of equal length--even in the still more famous, and as a whole justly
more famous, tour de force on Our Lady of Darkness--De Quincey ever quite equalled the combined
simplicity and majesty of this phrase, he has constantly come close to it. The Suspiria are
full of such passages--there are even some who prefer Savannah la Mar to the Ladies of Sorrow.
Beautiful as it is I do not, because the accursed superfluous adjective appears there. The
famous passages of the Confessions are in every one's memory; and so I suppose is the Vision
of Sudden Death. Many passages in The Cæsars, though somewhat less florid, are hardly less
good; and the close of Joan of Arc is as famous as the most ambitious attempts of the Confessions
and the Mail Coach. Moreover, in all the sixteen volumes, specimens of the same kind may be
found here and there, alternating with very different matter; so much so, that it has no doubt
often occurred to readers that the author's occasional divergence into questionable quips and
cranks is a deliberate attempt to set off his rhetoric, as dramatists of the noblest school
have often set off their tragedy, with comedy, if not with farce. That such a principle would
imply confusion of the study and the stage is arguable enough, but it does not follow that
it was not present. At any rate the contrast, deliberate or not, is very strong indeed in De
Quincey--stronger than in any other prose author except his friend, and pupil rather than master,
Wilson.

The great advantage that De Quincey has, not only over this friend of his but over all practitioners
of the ornate style in this century, lies in his sureness of hand in the first place, and secondly
in the comparative frugality of means which perhaps is an inseparable accompaniment of sureness
of hand. To mention living persons would be invidious; but Wilson and Landor are within the
most scrupulous critic's right of comparison. All three were contemporaries; all three were
Oxford men--Landor about ten years senior to the other two--and all three in their different
ways set themselves deliberately to reverse the practice of English prose for nearly a century
and a half. They did great things, but De Quincey did, I think, the greatest and certainly
the most classical in the proper sense, for all Landor's superior air of Hellenism. Voluble
as De Quincey often is, he seems always to have felt that when you are in your altitudes it
is well not to stay there too long. And his flights, while they are far more uniformly high
than Wilson's, which alternately soar and drag, are much more merciful in regard of length
than Landor's, as well as for the most part much more closely connected with the sense of his
subjects. There is scarcely one of the Imaginary Conversations which would not be the better
for very considerable thinning, while, with the exception perhaps of The English Mail Coach,
De Quincey's surplusage, obvious enough in many cases, is scarcely ever found in his most elaborate
and ornate passages. The total amount of such passages in the Confessions is by no means large,
and the more ambitious parts of the Suspiria do not much exceed a dozen pages. De Quincey was
certainly justified by his own practice in adopting and urging as he did the distinction, due,
he says, to Wordsworth, between the common and erroneous idea of style as the dress of thought,
and the true definition of it as the incarnation of thought. The most wizened of coxcombs may
spend days and years in dressing up his meagre and ugly carcass; but few are the sons of men
who have sufficient thought to provide the soul of any considerable series of avatars. De Quincey
had; and therefore, though the manner (with certain exceptions heretofore taken) in him is
always worth attention, it never need or should divert attention from the matter. And thus
he was not driven to make a little thought do tyrannous duty as lay-figure for an infinite
amount of dress, or to hang out frippery on a clothes-line with not so much as a lay-figure
inside it. Even when he is most conspicuously "fighting a prize," there is always solid stuff
in him.

Few indeed are the writers of whom so much can be said, and fewer still the miscellaneous writers,
among whom De Quincey must be classed. On almost any subject that interested him--and the number
of such subjects was astonishing, curious as are the gaps between the different groups of them--what
he has to say is pretty sure, even if it be the wildest paradox in appearance, to be worth
attending to. And in regard to most things that he has to say, the reader may be pretty sure
also that he will not find them better said elsewhere. It has sometimes been complained by
students, both of De Quincey the man and of De Quincey the writer, that there is something
not exactly human in him. There is certainly much in him of the dæmonic, to use a word which
was a very good word and really required in the language, and which ought not to be exiled
because it has been foolishly abused. Sometimes, as has also been complained, the demon is
a mere familiar with the tricksiness of Puck rather than the lightness of Ariel. But far oftener
he is a more potent spirit than any Robin Goodfellow, and as powerful as Ariel and Ariel's
master. Trust him wholly you may not; a characteristic often noted in intelligences that are
neither exactly human, nor exactly diabolic, nor exactly divine. But he will do great things
for you, and a little wit and courage on your part will prevent his doing anything serious
against you. To him, with much greater justice than to Hogg, might Wilson have applied the
nickname of Brownie, which he was so fond of bestowing upon the author of "Kilmeny." He will
do solid work, conjure up a concert of aerial music, play a shrewd trick now and then, and
all this with a curious air of irresponsibility and of remoteness of nature. In ancient days
when kings played experiments to ascertain the universal or original language, some monarch
might have been tempted to take a very clever child, interest him so far as possible in nothing
but books and opium, and see whether he would turn out anything like De Quincey. But it is
in the highest degree improbable that he would. Therefore let us rejoice, though according
to the precepts of wisdom and not too indiscriminately, in our De Quincey as we once, and probably
once for all, received him.

FOOTNOTES:

[16] See Appendix A--De Quincey.

[17] The Collected Writings of Thomas de Quincey; edited by David Masson. In fourteen volumes;
Edinburgh, 1889-90.

XI

LOCKHART

In every age there are certain writers who seem to miss their due meed of fame, and this is
most naturally and unavoidably the case in ages which see a great deal of what may be called
occasional literature. There is, as it seems to me, a special example of this general proposition
in the present century, and that example is the writer whose name stands at the head of this
chapter. No one, perhaps, who speaks with any competence either of knowledge or judgment, would
say that Lockhart made an inconsiderable figure in English literature. He wrote what some men
consider the best biography on a large scale, and what almost every one considers the second
best biography on a large scale, in English. His Spanish Ballads are admitted, by those who
know the originals, to have done them almost more than justice; and by those who do not know
those originals, to be charming in themselves. His novels, if not masterpieces, have kept the
field better than most: I saw a very badly printed and flaringly-covered copy of Reginald Dalton
for sale at the bookstall at Victoria Station the day before writing these words. He was a
pillar of the Quarterly, of Blackwood, of Fraser, at a time when quarterly and monthly magazines
played a greater part in literature than they have played since or are likely to play again.
He edited one of these periodicals for thirty years. "Nobody," as Mr. Browning has it, "calls
him a dunce." Yet there is no collected edition of his works; his sober, sound, scholarly,
admirably witty, and, with some very few exceptions, admirably catholic literary criticism,
is rarely quoted; and to add to this, there is a curious prepossession against him, which,
though nearly a generation has passed since his death, has by no means disappeared.[18] Some
years ago, in a periodical where I was, for the most part, allowed to say exactly what I liked
in matters literary, I found a sentence laudatory of Lockhart, from the purely literary point
of view, omitted between proof and publication. It so happened that the editor of this periodical
could not even have known Lockhart personally, or have been offended by his management of the
Quarterly, much less by his early fredaines in Blackwood and Fraser. It was this circumstance
that first suggested to me the notion of trying to supply something like a criticism of this
remarkable critic, which nobody has yet (1884) done, and which seems worth doing. For while
the work of many of Lockhart's contemporaries, famous at the time, distinctly loses by re-reading,
his for the most part does not; and it happens to display exactly the characteristics which
are most wanting in criticism, biographical and literary, at the present day. If any one at
the outset desires a definition, or at least an enumeration of those characteristics, I should
say that they are sobriety of style and reserve of feeling, coupled with delicacy of intellectual
appreciation and æsthetic sympathy, a strong and firm creed in matters political and literary,
not excluding that catholicity of judgment which men of strong belief frequently lack, and,
above all, the faculty of writing like a gentleman without writing like a mere gentleman. No
one can charge Lockhart with dilettantism: no one certainly can charge him with feebleness
of intellect, or insufficient equipment of culture, or lack of humour and wit.

His life was, except for the domestic misfortunes which marked its close, by no means eventful;
and the present writer, if he had access to any special sources of information (which he has
not), would abstain very carefully from using them. John Gibson Lockhart was born at the Manse
of Cambusnethan on 14th July 1794, went to school early, was matriculated at Glasgow at twelve
years old, transferred himself by means of a Snell exhibition to Balliol at fifteen, and took
a first class in 1813. They said he caricatured the examiners: this was, perhaps, not the unparalleled
audacity which admiring commentators have described it as being. Very many very odd things
have been done in the Schools. But if there was nothing extraordinary in his Oxford life except
what was, even for those days, the early age at which he began it, his next step was something
out of the common; for he went to Germany, was introduced to Goethe, and spent some time there.
An odd coincidence in the literary history of the nineteenth century is that both Lockhart
and Quinet practically began literature by translating a German book, and that both had the
remarkably good luck to find publishers who paid them beforehand. There are few such publishers
now. Lockhart's book was Schlegel's Lectures on History, and his publisher was Mr. Blackwood.
Then he came back to Scotland and to Edinburgh, and was called to the bar, and "swept the outer
house with his gown," after the fashion admirably described in Peter's Letters, and referred
to by Scott in not the least delightful though one of the most melancholy of his works, the
Introduction to the Chronicles of the Canongate. Lockhart, one of whose distinguishing characteristics
throughout life was shyness and reserve, was no speaker. Indeed, as he happily enough remarked
in reply to the toast of his health at the farewell dinner given to celebrate his removal to
London, "I cannot speak; if I could, I should not have left you." But if he could not speak
he could write, and the establishment of Blackwood's Magazine, after its first abortive numbers,
gave him scope. "The scorpion which delighteth to sting the faces of men," as he or Wilson
describes himself in the Chaldee Manuscript (for the passage is beyond Hogg's part), certainly
justified the description. As to this famous Manuscript, the late Professor Ferrier undoubtedly
made a blunder (in the same key as those that he made in describing the Noctes, in company
with which he reprinted it) as "in its way as good as The Battle of the Books." The Battle
of the Books, full of mistakes as it is, is literature, and the Chaldee Manuscript is only
capital journalism. But it is capital journalism; and the exuberance of its wit, if it be only
wit of the undergraduate kind (and Lockhart at least was still but an undergraduate in years),
is refreshing enough. The dreadful manner in which it fluttered the dovecotes of Edinburgh
Whiggism need not be further commented on, till Lockhart's next work (this time an almost though
not quite independent one) has been noticed. This was Peter's Letters to his Kinsfolk, an elaborate
book, half lampoon, half mystification, which appeared in 1819. This book, which derived its
title from Scott's account of his journey to Paris, and in its plan followed to some extent
Humphrey Clinker, is one of the most careful examples of literary hoaxing to be found. It purported
to be the work of a certain Dr. Peter Morris, a Welshman, and it is hardly necessary to say
that there was no such person. It had a handsome frontispiece depicting this Peter Morris,
and displaying not, like the portrait in Southey's Doctor, the occiput merely, but the full
face and features. This portrait was described, and as far as that went it seems truly described,
as "an interesting example of a new style of engraving by Lizars." Mr. Bates, who probably
knows, says that there was no first edition, but that it was published with "second edition"
on the title-page. My copy has the same date, 1819, but is styled the third edition, and has
a postscript commenting on the to-do the book made. However all this may be, it is a very handsome
book, excellently printed and containing capital portraits and vignettes, while the matter
is worthy of the get-up. The descriptions of the Outer-House, of Craigcrook and its high jinks,
of Abbotsford, of the finding of "Ambrose's," of the manufacture of Glasgow punch, and of many
other things, are admirable; and there is a charming sketch of Oxford undergraduate life, less
exaggerated than that in Reginald Dalton, probably because the subject was fresher in the author's
memory.

Lockhart modestly speaks of this book in his Life of Scott as one that "none but a very young
and thoughtless person would have written." It may safely be said that no one but a very clever
person, whether young or old, could have written it, though it is too long and has occasional
faults of a specially youthful kind. But it made, coming as it did upon the heels of the Chaldee
Manuscript, a terrible commotion in Edinburgh. The impartial observer of men and things may,
indeed, have noticed in the records of the ages, that a libelled Liberal is the man in all
the world who utters the loudest cries. The examples of the Reformers, and of the eighteenth-century
Philosophes, are notorious and hackneyed; but I can supply (without, I trust, violating the
sanctity of private life) a fresh and pleasing example. Once upon a time, a person whom we
shall call A. paid a visit to a person whom we shall call B. "How sad," said A., "are those
personal attacks of the ---- on Mr. Gladstone."--"Personality," said B., "is always disgusting;
and I am very sorry to hear that the ---- has followed the bad example of the personal attacks
on Lord Beaconsfield."--"Oh! but," quoth A., "that was quite a different thing." Now B. went
out to dinner that night, and sitting next to a distinguished Liberal member of Parliament,
told him this tale, expecting that he would laugh. "Ah! yes," said he with much gravity, "it
is very different, you know."

In the same way the good Whig folk of Edinburgh regarded it as very different that the Edinburgh
Review should scoff at Tories, and that Blackwood and Peter should scoff at Whigs. The scorpion
which delighted to sting the faces of men, probably at this time founded a reputation which
has stuck to him for more than seventy years after Dr. Peter Morris drove his shandrydan through
Scotland. Sir Walter (then Mr.) Scott held wisely aloof from the extremely exuberant Toryism
of Blackwood, and, indeed, had had some quarrels with its publisher and virtual editor. But
he could not fail to be introduced to a man whose tastes and principles were so closely allied
to his own. A year after the appearance of Peter's Letters, Lockhart married, on 29th April
1820 (a perilous approximation to the unlucky month of May), Sophia Scott, the Duke of Buccleuch's
"Little Jacobite," the most like her father of all his children. Every reader of the Life knows
the delightful pictures, enough for interest and not enough for vulgar obtrusion, given by
Lockhart of life at Chiefswood, the cottage near Abbotsford which he and his wife inhabited
for nearly six years.

They were very busy years for Lockhart. He was still active in contributing to Blackwood; he
wrote all his four novels, and he published the Spanish Ballads. Valerius and Adam Blair appeared
in 1821, Reginald Dalton and the Ballads in 1823, Matthew Wald in 1824.

The novels, though containing much that is very remarkable, are not his strongest work; indeed,
any critic who speaks with knowledge must admit that Lockhart had every faculty for writing
novels, except the faculty of novel-writing. Valerius, a classical story of the visit of a
Roman-Briton to Rome, and the persecution of the Christians in the days of Trajan, is, like
everything of its author's, admirably written, but, like every classical novel without exception,
save only Hypatia (which makes its interests and its personages daringly modern), it somehow
rings false and faint, though not, perhaps, so faint or so false as most of its fellows. Adam
Blair, the story of the sudden succumbing to natural temptation of a pious minister of the
kirk, is unquestionably Lockhart's masterpiece in this kind. It is full of passion, full of
force, and the characters of Charlotte Campbell and Adam Blair himself are perfectly conceived.
But the story-gift is still wanting. The reader finds himself outside: wondering why the people
do these things, and whether in real life they would have done them, instead of following the
story with absorption, and asking himself no questions at all. The same, in a different way,
is the case with Lockhart's longest book, Reginald Dalton; and this has the additional disadvantage
that neither hero nor heroine are much more than lay-figures, while in Adam Blair both are
flesh and blood. The Oxford scenes are amusing but exaggerated--the obvious work of a man who
supplies the defects of a ten years' memory by deepening the strokes where he does remember.
Matthew Wald, which is a novel of madness, has excellent passages, but is conventional and
wooden as a whole. Nothing was more natural than that Lockhart, with the example of Scott immediately
before him, should try novel-writing; not many things are more indicative of his literary ability
than that, after a bare three years' practice, he left a field which certainly was not his.

In the early autumn of 1825, just before the great collapse of his affairs, Scott went to Ireland
with Lockhart in his company. But very early in the following year, before the collapse was
decided, Lockhart and his family moved to London, on his appointment as editor of the Quarterly,
in succession to Gifford. Probably there never was a better appointment of the kind. Lockhart
was a born critic: he had both the faculty and the will to work up the papers of his contributors
to the proper level; he was firm and decided in his literary and political views, without going
to the extreme Giffordian acerbity in both; and his intelligence and erudition were very wide.
"He could write," says a phrase in some article I have somewhere seen quoted, "on any subject
from poetry to dry-rot;" and there is no doubt that an editor, if he cannot exactly write on
any subject from poetry to dry-rot, should be able to take an interest in any subject between
and, if necessary, beyond those poles. Otherwise he has the choice of two undesirables; either
he frowns unduly on the dry-rot articles, which probably interest large sections of the public
(itself very subject to dry-rot), or he lets the dry-rot contributor inflict his hobby, without
mercy and unedited, on a reluctant audience. But Lockhart, though he is said (for his contributions
are not, as far as I know, anywhere exactly indicated) to have contributed fully a hundred
articles to the Quarterly, that is to say one to nearly every number during the twenty-eight
years of his editorship, by no means confined himself to this work. It was, indeed, during
its progress that he composed not merely the Life of Napoleon, which was little more than an
abridgment, though a very clever abridgment, of Scott's book, but the Lives of Burns and of
Scott himself. Before, however, dealing with these, his Spanish Ballads and other poetical
work may be conveniently disposed of.

Lockhart's verse is in the same scattered condition as his prose; but it is evident that he
had very considerable poetical faculty. The charming piece, "When youthful hope is fled," attributed
to him on Mrs. Norton's authority; the well-known "Captain Paton's Lament," which has been
republished in the Tales from Blackwood; and the mono-rhymed epitaph on "Bright broken Maginn,"
in which some wiseacres have seen ill-nature, but which really is a masterpiece of humorous
pathos, are all in very different styles, and are all excellent each in its style. But these
things are mere waifs, separated from each other in widely different publications; and until
they are put together no general impression of the author's poetical talent, except a vaguely
favourable one, can be derived from them. The Spanish Ballads form something like a substantive
work, and one of nearly as great merit as is possible to poetical translations of poetry. I
believe opinions differ as to their fidelity to the original. Here and there, it is said, the
author has exchanged a vivid and characteristic touch for a conventional and feeble one. Thus,
my friend Mr. Hannay points out to me that in the original of "The Lord of Butrago" the reason
given by Montanez for not accompanying the King's flight is not the somewhat fade one that

    Castile's proud dames shall never point the finger of disdain,

but the nobler argument, showing the best side of feudal sentiment, that the widows of his
tenants shall never say that he fled and left their husbands to fight and fall. Lockhart's
master, Sir Walter, would certainly not have missed this touch, and it is odd that Lockhart
himself did. But such things will happen to translators. On the other hand, it is, I believe,
admitted (and the same very capable authority in Spanish is my warranty) that on the whole
the originals have rather gained than lost; and certainly no one can fail to enjoy the Ballads
as they stand in English. The "Wandering Knight's Song" has always seemed to me a gem without
flaw, especially the last stanza. Few men, again, manage the long "fourteener" with middle
rhyme better than Lockhart, though he is less happy with the anapæst, and has not fully mastered
the very difficult trochaic measure of "The Death of Don Pedro." In "The Count Arnaldos," wherein,
indeed, the subject lends itself better to that cadence, the result is more satisfactory. The
merits, however, of these Ballads are not technical merely, or rather, the technical merits
are well subordinated to the production of the general effect. About the nature of that effect
much ink has been shed. It is produced equally by Greek hexameters, by old French assonanced
tirades, by English "eights and sixes," and by not a few other measures. But in itself it is
more or less the same--the stirring of the blood as by the sound of a trumpet, or else the
melting of the mood into or close to tears. The ballad effect is thus the simplest and most
primitive of all poetical effects; it is Lockhart's merit that he seldom fails to produce it.
The simplicity and spontaneity of his verse may, to some people, be surprising in a writer
so thoroughly and intensely literary; but Lockhart's character was as complex as his verse
is simple, and the verse itself is not the least valuable guide to it.

It has been said that his removal to London and his responsible office by no means reduced
his general literary activity. Whether he continued to contribute to Blackwood I am not sure;
some phrases in the Noctes seem to argue the contrary. But he not only, as has been said, wrote
for the Quarterly assiduously, but after a short time joined the new venture of Fraser, and
showed in that rollicking periodical that the sting of the "scorpion" had by no means been
extracted. He produced, moreover, in 1828, his Life of Burns, and in 1836-37 his Life of Scott.
These, with the sketch of Theodore Hook written for the Quarterly in 1843, and separately published
later, make three very remarkable examples of literary biography on very different scales,
dealing with very different subjects, and, by comparison of their uniform excellence, showing
that the author had an almost unique genius for this kind of composition. The Life of Scott
fills seven capacious volumes; the Life of Burns goes easily into one; the Life of Hook does
not reach a hundred smallish pages. But they are all equally well-proportioned in themselves
and to their subjects; they all exhibit the same complete grasp of the secret of biography;
and they all have the peculiarity of being full of facts without presenting an undigested appearance.
They thus stand at an equal distance from biography of the fashion of the old academic Eloge
of the last century, which makes an elegant discourse about a man, but either deliberately
or by accident gives precise information about hardly any of the facts of the man's life; and
from modern biography, which tumbles upon the devoted reader a cataract of letters, documents,
and facts of all sorts, uncombined and undigested by any exercise of narrative or critical
skill on the part of the author. Lockhart's biographies, therefore, belong equally (to borrow
De Quincey's useful, though, as far as terminology goes, not very happy distinction) to the
literature of knowledge and the literature of power. They are storehouses of information; but
they are, at the same time, works of art, and of very great art. The earliest of the three,
the Life of Burns, is to this day by far the best book on the subject; indeed, with its few
errors and defects of fact corrected and supplemented as they have been by the late Mr. Douglas,
it makes all other Lives quite superfluous. Yet it was much more difficult, especially for
a Scotchman, to write a good book about Burns then than now; though I am told that, for a Scotchman,
there is still a considerable difficulty in the matter. Lockhart was familiar with Edinburgh
society--indeed, he had long formed a part of it--and Edinburgh society was still, when he
wrote, very sore at the charge of having by turns patronised and neglected Burns. Lockhart
was a decided Tory, and Burns, during the later part of his life at any rate, had permitted
himself manifestations of political opinion which Whigs themselves admitted to be imprudent
freaks, and which even a good-natured Tory might be excused for regarding as something very
much worse. But the biographer's treatment of both these subjects is perfectly tolerant, judicious,
and fair, and the same may be said of his whole account of Burns. Indeed, the main characteristic
of Lockhart's criticism, a robust and quiet sanity, fitted him admirably for the task of biography.
He is never in extremes, and he never avoids extremes by the common expedient of see-sawing
between two sides, two parties, or two views of a man's character. He holds aloof equally from
engouement and from depreciation, and if, as a necessary consequence, he failed, and fails,
to please fanatics on either side, he cannot fail to please those who know what criticism really
means.

These good qualities were shown even to better advantage in a pleasanter but, at the same time,
far more difficult task, the famous Life of Scott. The extraordinary interest of the subject,
and the fashion, no less skilful than modest, in which the biographer keeps himself in the
background, and seems constantly to be merely editing Scott's words, have perhaps obscured
the literary value of the book to some readers. Of the perpetual comparison with Boswell, it
may be said, once for all, that it is a comparison of matter merely; and that from the properly
literary point of view, the point of view of workmanship and form, it does not exist. Perhaps
the most surprising thing is that, even in moments of personal irritation, any one should have
been found to accuse Lockhart of softening Scott's faults. The other charge, of malice to Scott,
is indeed more extraordinary still in a certain way; but, being merely imbecile, it need not
be taken into account. A delightful document informs us that, in the opinion of the Hon. Charles
Sumner, Fenimore Cooper (who, stung by some references to him in the book, attacked it) administered
"a proper castigation to the vulgar minds of Scott and Lockhart." This is a jest so pleasing
that it almost puts one in good temper with the whole affair. But, in fact, Lockhart, considering
his relationship to Scott, and considering Scott's greatness, could hardly have spoken more
plainly as to the grave fault of judgment which made a man of letters and a member of a learned
profession mix himself up secretly, and almost clandestinely, with commercial speculations.
On this point the biographer does not attempt to mince matters; and on no other point was it
necessary for him to be equally candid, for this, grave as it is, is almost the only fault
to be found with Scott's character. This candour, however, is only one of the merits of the
book. The wonderfully skilful arrangement of so vast and heterogeneous a mass of materials,
the way in which the writer's own work and his quoted matter dovetail into one another, the
completeness of the picture given of Scott's character and life, have never been equalled in
any similar book. Not a few minor touches, moreover, which are very apt to escape notice, enhance
its merit. Lockhart was a man of all men least given to wear his heart upon his sleeve, yet
no one has dealt with such pitiful subjects as his later volumes involve, at once with such
total absence of "gush" and with such noble and pathetic appreciation. For Scott's misfortunes
were by no means the only matters which touched him nearly, in and in connection with the chronicle.
The constant illness and sufferings of his own child form part of it; his wife died during
its composition and publication, and all these things are mentioned with as little parade of
stoicism as of sentiment. I do not think that, as an example of absolute and perfect good taste,
the account of Scott's death can be surpassed in literature. The same quality exhibits itself
in another matter. No biographer can be less anxious to display his own personality than Lockhart;
and though for six years he was a constant, and for much longer an occasional, spectator of
the events he describes, he never introduces himself except when it is necessary. Yet, on the
other hand, when Scott himself makes complimentary references to him (as when he speaks of
his party "having Lockhart to say clever things"), he neither omits the passage nor stoops
to the missish minauderie, too common in such cases, of translating "spare my blushes" into
some kind of annotation. Lockhart will not talk about Lockhart; but if others, whom the public
likes to hear, talk about him, Lockhart does not put his fan before his face.

This admirable book, however, is both well enough known (if not so well known as it deserves)
and large enough to make it both unnecessary and impossible to criticise it at length here.
The third work noticed above, the sketch of the life of Theodore Hook, though it has been reprinted
more than once, and is still, I believe, kept in print and on sale, is probably less familiar
to most readers. It is, however, almost as striking an example, though of course an example
in miniature only, of Lockhart's aptitude for the great and difficult art of literary biography
as either of the two books just mentioned. Here the difficulty was of a different kind. A great
many people liked Theodore Hook, but it was nearly impossible for any one to respect him; yet
it was quite impossible for Lockhart, a political sympathiser and a personal friend, to treat
him harshly in an obituary notice. There was no danger of his setting down aught in malice;
but there might be thought to be a considerable danger of over-extenuation. The danger was
the greater, inasmuch as Lockhart himself had certainly not escaped, and had perhaps to some
extent deserved, one of Hook's reproaches. No man questioned his integrity; he was not a reckless
spendthrift; he was not given to excesses in living, or to hanging about great houses; nor
was he careless of moral and social rules. But the scorpion which had delighted to sting the
faces of men might have had some awkwardness in dealing with the editor of John Bull. The result,
however, victoriously surmounts all difficulties without evading one. Nothing that is the truth
about Hook is omitted, or even blinked; and from reading Lockhart alone, any intelligent reader
might know the worst that is to be said about him. Neither are any of his faults, in the unfair
sense, extenuated. His malicious and vulgar practical jokes; his carelessness at Mauritius;
the worse than carelessness which allowed him to shirk, when he had ample means of discharging
it by degrees, a debt which he acknowledged that he justly owed; the folly and vanity which
led him to waste his time, his wit, and his money in playing the hanger-on at country houses
and town dinner-tables; his hard living, and the laxity which induced him not merely to form
irregular connections, but prevented him from taking the only step which could, in some measure,
repair his fault, are all fairly put, and blamed frankly. Even in that more delicate matter
of the personal journalism, Lockhart's procedure is as ingenuous as it is ingenious; and the
passage of the sketch which deals with "the blazing audacity of invective, the curious delicacy
of persiflage, the strong caustic satire" (expressions, by the way, which suit Lockhart himself
much better than Hook, though Lockhart had not Hook's broad humour), in fact, admits that the
application of these things was not justifiable, nor to be justified. Yet with all this, the
impression left by the sketch is distinctly favourable on the whole, which, in the circumstances,
must be admitted to be a triumph of advocacy obtained not at the expense of truth, but by the
art of the advocate in making the best of it.

The facts of Lockhart's life between his removal to London and his death may be rapidly summarised,
the purpose of this notice being rather critical than biographical. He had hardly settled in
town when, as he himself tells, he had to attempt, fruitlessly enough, the task of mediator
in the financial disasters of Constable and Scott; and his own share of domestic troubles began
early. His eldest son, after repeated escapes, died in 1831; Scott followed shortly; Miss Anne
Scott, after her father's death, came in broken health to Lockhart's house, and died there
only a year later; and in the spring of 1837 his wife likewise died. Then Fortune let him alone
for a little, to return in no better humour some years later.

It is, however, from the early "thirties" that one of the best known memorials of Lockhart
dates; that is to say, the portrait, or rather the two portraits, in the Fraser Gallery. In
the general group of the Fraserians he sits between Fraser himself and Theodore Hook, with
the diminutive figure of Crofton Croker half intercepted beyond him; and his image forms the
third plate in Mr. Bates's republication of the gallery. It is said to be the most faithful
of the whole series, and it is certainly the handsomest, giving even a more flattering representation
than the full-face portrait by Pickersgill which serves as frontispiece to the modern editions
of the Ballads. In this latter the curious towzled mop of hair, in which our fathers delighted,
rather mars the effect; while in Maclise's sketch (which is in profile) it is less obtrusive.
In this latter, too, there is clearly perceivable what the Shepherd in the Noctes calls "a
sort of laugh aboot the screwed-up mouth of him that fules ca'd no canny, for they couldna
thole the meaning o't." There is not much doubt that Lockhart aided and abetted Maginn in much
of the mischief that distinguished the early days of Fraser, though his fastidious taste is
never likely to have stooped to the coarseness which was too natural to Maginn. It is believed
that to him is due the wicked wresting of Alaric Watts' second initial into "Attila," which
gave the victim so much grief, and he probably did many other things of the same kind. But
Lockhart was never vulgar, and Fraser in those days very often was.

In 1843 Lockhart received his first and last piece of political preferment, being appointed,
says one of the authorities before me, Chancellor of the Duchy of Cornwall, and (says another)
Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. Such are biographers; but the matter is not of the slightest
importance, though I do not myself quite see how it could have been Lancaster. A third and
more trustworthy writer gives the post as "Auditorship" of the Duchy of Lancaster, which is
possible enough.

In 1847, the death of Sir Walter Scott's last surviving son brought the title and estate to
Lockhart's son Walter, but he died in 1853. Lockhart's only other child had married Mr. Hope--called,
after his brother-in-law's death, Mr. Hope Scott, of whom an elaborate biography has been published.
Little in it concerns Lockhart, but the admirable letter which he wrote to Mr. Hope on his
conversion to the Roman Church. This step, followed as it was by Mrs. Hope, could not but be,
and in this letter is delicately hinted to be, no small grief to Lockhart, who saw Abbotsford
fall under influences for which certainly neither he nor its founder had any respect. His repeated
domestic losses, and many years of constant work and excitement, appear to have told on him,
and very shortly after his son's death in April 1853 he resigned the editorship of the Quarterly.
He then visited Italy, a visit from which, if he had been a superstitious man, the ominous
precedent of Scott might have deterred him. His journey did him no good, and he died at Abbotsford
on the 25th of November. December, says another authority, for so it is that history gets written,
even in thirty years.

The comparatively brief notices which are all that have been published about Lockhart, uniformly
mention the unpopularity (to use a mild word) which pursued him, and which, as I have remarked,
does not seem to have exhausted itself even yet. It is not very difficult to account for the
origin of this; and the neglect to supply any collection of his work, and any authoritative
account of his life and character, will quite explain its continuance. In the first place,
Lockhart was well known as a most sarcastic writer; in the second, he was for nearly a lifetime
editor of one of the chief organs of party politics and literary criticism in England. He might
have survived the Chaldee Manuscript, and Peter's Letters, and the lampoons in Fraser: he might
even have got the better of the youthful imprudence which led him to fix upon himself a description
which was sure to be used and abused against him by the "fules," if he had not succeeded to
the chair of the Quarterly. Individual and, to a great extent, anonymous indulgence of the
luxury of scorn never gave any man a very bad character, even if he were, as Lockhart was,
personally shy and reserved, unable to make up for written sarcasm with verbal flummery, and,
in virtue of an incapacity for gushing, deprived of the easiest and, by public personages,
most commonly practised means of proving that a man has "a good heart after all." But when
he complicated his sins by editing the Quarterly at a time when everybody attacked everybody
else in exactly such terms as pleased them, the sins of his youth were pretty sure to be visited
on him. In the first place, there was the great army of the criticised, who always consider
that the editor of the paper which dissects them is really responsible. The luckless Harriet
Martineau, who, if I remember rightly, gives in her autobiography a lurid picture of Lockhart
"going down at night to the printer's" and inserting dreadful things about her, and who, I
believe, took the feminine plan of revenging herself in an obituary article, was only one of
a great multitude.

Lockhart does not seem to have taken over from Gifford quite such a troublesome crew of helpers
as Macvey Napier inherited from Jeffrey, and he was also free from the monitions of his predecessor.
But in Croker he had a first lieutenant who could not very well be checked, and who (though
he, too, has had rather hard measure) had no equal in the art of making himself offensive.
Besides, those were the days when the famous "Scum condensed of Irish bog" lines appeared in
a great daily newspaper about O'Connell. Imagine the Times addressing Mr. Parnell as "Scum
condensed of Irish bog," with the other amenities that follow, in this year of grace!

But Lockhart had not only his authors, he had his contributors. "A' contributors," says the
before-quoted Shepherd, in a moment of such preternatural wisdom that he must have been "fou,"
"are in a manner fierce." They are--it is the nature and essence of the animal to be so. The
contributor who is not allowed to contribute is fierce, as a matter of course; but not less
fierce is the contributor who thinks himself too much edited, and the contributor who imperatively
insists that his article on Chinese metaphysics shall go in at once, and the contributor who,
being an excellent hand at articles on the currency, wants to be allowed to write on dancing;
and, in short, as the Shepherd says, all contributors. Now it does not appear (for, as I must
repeat, I have no kind of private information on the subject) that Lockhart was by any means
an easy-going editor, or one of that kind which allows a certain number of privileged writers
to send in what they like. We are told in many places that he "greatly improved" his contributors'
articles; and I should say that if there is one thing which drives a contributor to the verge
of madness, it is to have his articles "greatly improved." A hint in the Noctes (and it may
be observed that though the references to Lockhart in the Noctes are not very numerous, they
are valuable, for Wilson's friendship seems to have been mixed with a small grain of jealousy
which preserves them from being commonplace) suggests that his friends did not consider him
as by any means too ready to accept their papers. All this, added to his early character of
scoffer at Whig dignities, and his position as leader en titre of Tory journalism, was quite
sufficient to create a reputation partly exaggerated, partly quite false, which has endured
simply because no trouble has been taken to sift and prove it.

The head and front of Lockhart's offending, in a purely literary view, seems to be the famous
Quarterly article on Lord Tennyson's volume of 1832. That article is sometimes spoken of as
Croker's, but there can be no manner of doubt that it is Lockhart's; and, indeed, it is quoted
as his by Professor Ferrier, who, through Wilson, must have known the facts. Now I do not think
I yield to any man living in admiration of the Laureate, but I am unable to think much the
worse, or, indeed, any the worse, of Lockhart because of this article. In the first place,
it is extremely clever, being, perhaps, the very best example of politely cruel criticism in
existence. In the second, most, if not all, of the criticism is perfectly just. If Lord Tennyson
himself, at this safe distance of time, can think of the famous strawberry story and its application
without laughing, he must be an extremely sensitive Peer. And nobody, I suppose, would now
defend the wondrous stanza which was paralleled from the Groves of Blarney. The fact is that
criticism of criticism after some time is apt to be doubly unjust. It is wont to assume, or
rather to imagine, that the critic must have known what the author was going to do, as well
as what he had actually done; and it is wont to forget that the work criticised was very often,
as it presented itself to the critic, very different from what it is when it presents itself
to the critic's critic. The best justification of Lockhart's verdict on the volume of 1832
is what Lord Tennyson himself has done with the volume of 1832. Far more than half the passages
objected to have since been excised or altered. But there are other excuses. In the first place,
Mr. Tennyson, as he then was, represented a further development of schools of poetry against
which the Quarterly had always, rightly or wrongly, set its face, and a certain loyalty to
the principles of his paper is, after all, not the worst fault of a critic. In the second,
no one can fairly deny that some points in Mr. Tennyson's early, if not in his later, manner
must have been highly and rightly disgustful to a critic who, like Lockhart, was above all
things masculine and abhorrent of "gush." In the third, it is, unfortunately, not given to
all critics to admire all styles alike. Let those to whom it is given thank God therefor; but
let them, at the same time, remember that they are as much bound to accept whatever is good
in all kinds of critics as whatever is good in all kinds of poets.

Now Lockhart, within his own range, and it was for the time a very wide one, was certainly
not a narrow critic, just as he certainly was not a feeble one. In the before-mentioned Peter's
Letters (which, with all its faults, is one of his best, and particularly one of his most spontaneous
and characteristic works) the denunciation of the "facetious and rejoicing ignorance" which
enabled contemporary critics to pooh-pooh Wordsworth, Charles Lamb, and Coleridge is excellent.
And it must be remembered that in 1819, whatever might be the case with Coleridge, Wordsworth
and Lamb were by no means taken to the hearts of Tories on their merits, and that in this very
passage Blackwood is condemned not less severely than the Edinburgh. Another point in which
Lockhart made a great advance was that he was one of the first (Lamb himself is, in England,
his only important forerunner) to unite and combine criticism of different branches of art.
He never has the disgusting technical jargon, or the undisciplined fluency, of the mere art
critic, any more than he has the gabble of the mere connoisseur. But it is constantly evident
that he has a knowledge of and a feeling for the art of line and colour as well as of words.
Nothing can be better than the fragments of criticism which are interspersed in the Scott book;
and if his estimate of Hook as a novelist seems exaggerated, it must be remembered, as he has
himself noted, that Thackeray was, at the time he spoke, nothing more than an amusing contributor
of remarkably promising trifles to magazines, and that, from the appearance of Waverley to
that of Pickwick, no novelist of the first class had made an appearance. It is, moreover, characteristic
of Lockhart as a critic that he is, as has been noted, always manly and robust. He was never
false to his own early protest against "the banishing from the mind of a reverence for feeling,
as abstracted from mere questions of immediate and obvious utility." But he never allowed that
reverence to get the better of him and drag him into the deplorable excesses of gush into which,
from his day to ours, criticism has more and more had a tendency to fall. If he makes no parade
of definite æsthetic principles, it is clear that throughout he had such principles, and that
they were principles of a very good kind. He had a wide knowledge of foreign literature without
any taint of "Xenomania," sufficient scholarship (despite the unlucky false quantity of Janua,
which he overlooked) in the older languages, and a thorough knowledge and love of English literature.
His style is, to me at any rate, peculiarly attractive. Contrasted with the more brightly coloured
and fantastically-shaped styles, of which, in his own day, De Quincey, Wilson, Macaulay, and
Carlyle set the fashion, it may possibly seem tame to those who are not satisfied with proportion
in form and harmony in tint; it will certainly not seem so to those who are more fortunately
gifted. Indeed, compared either with Wilson's welter of words, now bombastic, now gushing,
now horse-playful, or with the endless and heartbreaking antitheses of what Brougham ill-naturedly
but truly called "Tom's snip-snap," it is infinitely preferable. The conclusion of the essay
on Theodore Hook is not easily surpassable as an example of solid polished prose, which is
prose, and does not attempt to be a hybrid between prose and poetry. The last page of the Tennyson
review is perfect for quiet humour.

But there is no doubt that though Lockhart was an admirable critic merely as such, a poet,
or at least a song-writer, of singular ability and charm within certain limits, and a master
of sharp light raillery that never missed its mark and never lumbered on the way, his most
unique and highest merit is that of biographer. Carlyle, though treating Lockhart himself with
great politeness, does not allow this, and complains that Lockhart's conception of his task
was "not very elevated." That is what a great many people said of Boswell, whom Carlyle thought
an almost perfect biographer. But, as it happens, the critic here has fallen into the dangerous
temptation of giving his reasons. Lockhart's plan was not, it seems, in the case of his Scott,
very elevated, because it was not "to show Scott as he was by nature, as the world acted on
him, as he acted on the world," and so forth. Now, unfortunately, this is exactly what it seems
to me that Lockhart, whether he meant to do it or not, has done in the very book which Carlyle
was criticising. And it seems to me, further, that he always does this in all his biographical
efforts. Sometimes he appears (for here another criticism of Carlyle's on the Burns, not the
Scott, is more to the point) to quote and extract from other and much inferior writers to an
extent rather surprising in so excellent a penman, especially when it is remembered that, except
to a dunce, the extraction and stringing together of quotations is far more troublesome than
original writing. But even then the extracts are always luminous. With ninety-nine out of a
hundred biographies the total impression which Carlyle demands, and very properly demands,
is, in fact, a total absence of impression. The reader's mind is as dark, though it may be
as full, as a cellar when the coals have been shot into it. Now this is never the case with
Lockhart's biographies, whether they are books in half a dozen volumes, or essays in half a
hundred pages. He subordinates what even Carlyle allowed to be his "clear nervous forcible
style" so entirely to the task of representing his subject, he has such a perfect general conception
of that subject, that only a very dense reader can fail to perceive the presentment. Whether
it is the right or whether it is the wrong presentment may, of course, be a matter of opinion,
but, such as it is, it is always there.

One other point of interest about Lockhart has to be mentioned. He was an eminent example,
perhaps one of the most eminent, of a "gentleman of the press." He did a great many kinds of
literary work, and he did all of them well; novel-writing, perhaps (which, as has been said,
he gave up almost immediately), least well. But he does not seem to have felt any very strong
or peculiar call to any particular class of original literary work, and his one great and substantive
book may be fairly taken to have been much more decided by accident and his relationship to
Scott than by deliberate choice. He was, in fact, eminently a journalist, and it is very much
to be wished that there were more journalists like him. For from the two great reproaches of
the craft to which so many of us belong, and which seems to be gradually swallowing up all
other varieties of literary occupation, he was conspicuously free. He never did work slovenly
in form, and he never did work that was not in one way or other consistent with a decided set
of literary and political principles. There is a great deal of nonsense talked about the unprincipled
character of journalism, no doubt; and nobody knows better than those who have some experience
of it, that if, as George Warrington says, "too many of us write against our own party," it
is the fault simply of those who do so. If a man has a faculty of saying anything, he can generally
get an opportunity of saying what he likes, and avoid occasions of saying what he does not
like. But the mere journalist Swiss of heaven (or the other place), is certainly not unknown,
and by all accounts he was in Lockhart's time rather common. No one ever accused Lockhart himself
of being one of the class. A still more important fault, undoubtedly, of journalism is its
tendency to slovenly work, and here again Lockhart was conspicuously guiltless. His actual
production must have been very considerable, though in the absence of any collection, or even
any index, of his contributions to periodicals, it is impossible to say exactly to how much
it would extend. But, at a rough guess, the Scott, the Burns, and the Napoleon, the Ballads,
the novels, and Peter, a hundred Quarterly articles, and an unknown number in Blackwood and
Fraser, would make at least twenty or five-and-twenty volumes of a pretty closely printed library
edition. Yet all this, as far as it can be identified, has the same careful though unostentatious
distinction of style, the same admirable faculty of sarcasm, wherever sarcasm is required,
the same depth of feeling, wherever feeling is called for, the same refusal to make a parade
of feeling even where it is shown. Never trivial, never vulgar, never feeble, never stilted,
never diffuse, Lockhart is one of the very best recent specimens of that class of writers of
all work, which since Dryden's time has continually increased, is increasing, and does not
seem likely to diminish. The growth may or may not be matter for regret; probably none of the
more capable members of the class itself feels any particular desire to magnify his office.
But if the office is to exist, let it at least be the object of those who hold it to perform
its duties with that hatred of commonplace and cant and the popularis aura, with, as nearly
as may be in each case, that conscience and thoroughness of workmanship, which Lockhart's writings
uniformly display.

FOOTNOTES:

[18] See Appendix B--Lockhart.

XII

PRAED

It was not till half a century after his death that Praed, who is loved by those who love him
perhaps as sincerely as most greater writers, had his works presented to the public in a form
which may be called complete.[19] This is of itself rather a cautious statement in appearance,
but I am not sure that it ought not to be made more cautious still. The completeness is not
complete, though it is in one respect rather more than complete; and the form is exceedingly
informal. Neither in size, nor in print, nor in character of editing and arrangement do the
two little fat volumes which were ushered into the world by Derwent Coleridge in 1864, and
the one little thin volume which appeared in 1887 under Sir George Young's name with no notes
and not much introduction, and the very creditable edition of the political poems which appeared
a year later under the same care but better cared for, agree together. But this, though a nuisance
to those who love not a set of odd volumes, would matter comparatively little if the discrepancies
were not equally great in a much more important matter than that of mere externals. Only the
last of the four volumes and three books just enumerated can be said to have been really edited,
and though that is edited very well, it is the least important. Sir George Young, who has thus
done a pious work to his uncle's memory, was concerned not merely in the previous cheap issue
of the prose, but in the more elaborate issue of the poems in 1864. But either his green unknowing
youth did not at that time know what editing meant, or he was under the restraint of some higher
powers. Except that the issue of 1864 has that well-known page-look of "Moxon's," which is
identified to all lovers of poetry with associations of Shelley, of Lord Tennyson, and of other
masters, and that the pieces are duly dated, it is difficult to say any good thing of the book.
There are no notes; and Praed is an author who is much in need of annotation. With singular
injudiciousness, a great deal of album and other verse is included which was evidently not
intended for publication, which does not display the writer at his best, or even in his characteristic
vein at all, while the memoir is meagre in fact and decidedly feeble in criticism. As for the
prose, though Sir George Young has prefixed an introduction good as far as it goes, there is
no index, no table even of contents, and the separate papers are not dated, nor is any indication
given of their origin--a defect which, for reasons to be indicated shortly, is especially troublesome
in Praed's case. Accordingly anything like a critical study of the poet is beset with very
unusual difficulties, and the mere reading of him, if it were less agreeable in itself, could
not be said to be exactly easy. Luckily Praed is a writer so eminently engaging to the mere
reader, as well as so interesting in divers ways to the personage whom some one has politely
called "the gelid critic," that no sins or shortcomings of his editors can do him much harm,
so long as they let him be read at all.

Winthrop Mackworth was the third son of Serjeant Praed, Chairman of the Board of Audit, and,
though his family was both by extraction and by actual seat Devonian, he was born in John Street,
Bedford Row, on 26th June 1802, the year of the birth of Victor Hugo, who was perhaps about
as unlike Praed in every conceivable point, except metrical mastery, as two men possessing
poetic faculty can be unlike one another. John Street may not appear as meet a nurse for a
poetic child as Besançon, especially now when it has settled down into the usual office-and-chambers
state of Bloomsbury. But it is unusually wide for a London street; it has trees--those of the
Foundling Hospital and those of Gray's Inn--at either end, and all about it cluster memories
of the Bedford Row conspiracy, and of that immortal dinner which was given by the Briefless
One and his timid partner to Mr. Goldmore, and of Sydney Smith's sojourn in Doughty Street,
and of divers other pleasant things. In connection, however, with Praed himself, we do not
hear much more of John Street. It was soon exchanged for the more cheerful locality of Teignmouth,
where his father (who was a member of the old western family of Mackworth, Praed being an added
surname) had a country house. Serjeant Praed encouraged, if he did not positively teach, the
boy to write English verse at a very early age: a practice which I should be rather slow to
approve, but which has been credited, perhaps justly, with the very remarkable formal accuracy
and metrical ease of Praed's after-work. Winthrop lost his mother early, was sent to a private
school at eight years old, and to Eton in the year 1814. Public schools in their effect of
allegiance on public schoolboys have counted for much in English history, literary and other,
and Eton has counted for more than any of them. But hardly in any case has it counted for so
much with the general reader as in Praed's. A friend of mine, who, while entertaining high
and lofty views on principle, takes low ones by a kind of natural attraction, says that the
straightforward title of The Etonian and Praed's connection with it are enough to account for
this. There you have a cardinal fact easy to seize and easy to remember. "Praed? Oh! yes, the
man who wrote The Etonian; he must have been an Eton man," says the general reader. This is
cynicism, and cannot be too strongly reprehended. But unluckily, as in other cases, a kind
of critical deduction or reaction from this view has also taken place, and there are persons
who maintain that Praed's merit is a kind of coterie-merit, a thing which Eton men are bound,
and others are not bound but the reverse, to uphold. This is an old, but apparently still effective
trick. I read not long ago a somewhat elaborate attempt to make out that the people who admire
Mr. Matthew Arnold's poems admire them because they, the people, are Oxford men. Now this form
of "ruling out" is undoubtedly ingenious. "You admire Mr. Arnold's poems?"--"Yes, I do."--"You
are an Oxford man?"--"Yes, I am."--"Ah! I see." And it is perfectly useless for the victim
to argue that his admiration of the poet and his allegiance to the University have nothing
to do with each other. In the present case I, at least, am free from this illogical but damaging
disqualification. I do not think that any one living admires Praed more than I do; and neither
Eton nor Cambridge, which may be said to have divided influence on him, claims any allegiance
from me. On Praed himself, however, the influence of Eton was certainly great, if not of the
greatest. Here he began in school periodicals ("Apis Matina" a bee buzzing in manuscript only,
preceded The Etonian) his prose and, to some though a less extent, his verse-exercises in finished
literature. Here he made the beginnings of that circle of friends (afterwards slightly enlarged
at Cambridge by the addition of non-Etonians and including one or two Oxford men who had been
at Eton) which practically formed the staff of The Etonian itself and of the subsequent Knight's
Quarterly and Brazen Head. The greatest of them all, Macaulay, belonged to the later Trinity
set; but the Etonians proper included divers men of mark. There has been, I believe, a frequent
idea that boys who contribute to school-magazines never do anything else. Praed certainly could
not be produced as an instance. He was not a great athlete, partly because his health was always
weak, partly because athletics were then in their infancy. But he is said to have been a good
player at fives and tennis, an amateur actor of merit, expert at chess and whist, and latterly
a debater of promise, while, in the well-known way of his own school and University, he was
more than a sufficient scholar. He went to Trinity in October 1821, and in the three following
years won the Browne Medals for Greek verse four times and the Chancellor's Medal for English
verse twice. He was third in the Classical Tripos, was elected to a Fellowship at his college
in 1827, and in 1830 obtained the Seatonian Prize with a piece, "The Ascent of Elijah," which
is remarkable for the extraordinary facility with which it catches the notes of the just published
Christian Year. He was a great speaker at the Union, and, as has been hinted, he made a fresh
circle of literary friends for himself, the chief ornaments whereof were Macaulay and Charles
Austin. It was also during his sojourn at Cambridge that the short-lived but brilliant venture
of Knight's Quarterly was launched. He was about four years resident at Trinity in the first
instance; after which, according to a practice then common enough but now, I believe, obsolete,
he returned to Eton as private and particular tutor to Lord Ernest Bruce. This employment kept
him for two years. He then read law, was called to the Bar in 1829, and in 1830 was elected
to Parliament for the moribund borough of St. Germans. He was re-elected next year, contested
St. Ives, when St. Germans lost its members, but was beaten, was elected in 1834 for Great
Yarmouth, and in 1837 for Aylesbury, which last seat he held to his death. During the whole
of this time he sat as a Conservative, becoming a more thorough one as time went on; and as
he had been at Cambridge a very decided Whig, and had before his actual entrance on public
life written many pointed and some bitter lampoons against the Tories, the change, in the language
of his amiable and partial friend and biographer, "occasioned considerable surprise." Of this
also more presently: for it is well to get merely biographical details over with as little
digression as possible. Surprise or no surprise, he won good opinions from both sides, acquired
considerable reputation as a debater and a man of business, was in the confidence both of the
Duke of Wellington and of Sir Robert Peel, was made Secretary of the Board of Control in 1834,
married in 1835, was appointed Deputy-High Steward of his University (a mysterious appointment,
of the duties of which I have no notion), and died of disease of the lungs on 15th July 1839.
Not very much has been published about Praed personally; but in what has been published, and
in what I have heard, I cannot remember a single unfriendly sentence.

Notwithstanding his reputation as an "inspired schoolboy," I do not know that sober criticism
would call him a really precocious writer, especially in verse. The pieces by which he is best
known and which have most individuality, date in no case very early, and in almost all cases
after his five-and-twentieth year. What does date very early (and unluckily it has been printed
with a copiousness betokening more affection than judgment, considering that the author had
more sense than to print it at all) is scarcely distinguishable from any other verses of any
other clever boy. It is impossible to augur any future excellence from such stuff as

    Emilia often sheds the tear
      But affectation bids it flow,

or as

    From breasts which feel compassion's glow
      Solicit mild the kind relief;

and, for one's own part, one is inclined to solicit mild the kind relief of not having to read
it. Even when Praed had become, at least technically, a man, there is no very great improvement
as a whole, though here and there one may see, looking backwards from the finished examples,
faint beginnings of his peculiar touches, especially of that pleasant trick of repeating the
same word or phrase with a different and slightly altered sense which, as Mr. Austin Dobson
has suggested, may have been taken from Burns. The Cambridge prize poems are quite authentic
and respectable examples of that style which has received its final criticism in

    Ply battleaxe and hurtling catapult:
    Jerusalem is ours! Id Deus vult,--

though they do not contain anything so nice as that, or as its great author's more famous couplet
respecting Africa and the men thereof. The longer romances of the same date, "Gog," "Lilian,"
"The Troubadour," are little more than clever reminiscences sometimes of Scott, Byron, Moore,
and other contemporaries, sometimes of Prior and the vers de société of the eighteenth century.
The best passage by far of all this is the close of "How to Rhyme with Love," and this, as
it seems to me, is the only passage of even moderate length which, in the poems dating before
Praed took his degree, in the least foretells the poet of "The Red Fisherman," "The Vicar,"
the "Letters from Teignmouth," the "Fourteenth of February" (earliest in date and not least
charming fruit of the true vein), "Good-night to the Season," and best and most delightful
of all, the peerless "Letter of Advice," which is as much the very best thing of its own kind
as the "Divine Comedy."

In prose Praed was a little earlier, but not very much. The Etonian itself was, even in its
earliest numbers, written at an age when many, perhaps most, men have already left school;
and the earlier numbers are as imitative, of the Spectator and its late and now little read
followers of the eighteenth century, as is the verse above quoted. The youthful boisterousness
of Blackwood gave Praed a more congenial because a fresher cue; and in the style of which Maginn,
as Adjutant O'Doherty, had set the example in his Latinisings of popular verse, and which was
to be worked to death by Father Prout, there are few things better than the "Musæ O'Connorianæ"
which celebrates the great fight of Mac Nevis and Mac Twolter. But there is here still the
distinct following of a model the taint of the school-exercise. Very much more original is
"The Knight and the Knave:" indeed I should call this the first original thing, though it be
a parody, that Praed did. To say that it reminds one in more than subject of Rebecca and Rowena,
and that it was written some twenty years earlier, is to say a very great deal. Even here,
however, the writer's ground is rented, not freehold. It is very different in such papers as
"Old Boots" and "The Country Curate," while in the later prose contributed to Knight's Quarterly
the improvement in originality is marked. "The Union Club" is amusing enough all through: but
considering that it was written in 1823, two years before Jeffrey asked the author of a certain
essay on Milton "where he got that style," one passage of the speech put in the mouth of Macaulay
is positively startling. "The Best Bat in the School" is quite delightful, and "My First Folly,"
though very unequal, contains in the introduction scene, between Vyvian Joyeuse and Margaret
Orleans, a specimen of a kind of dialogue nowhere to be found before, so far as I know, and
giving proof that, if Praed had set himself to it, he might have started a new kind of novel.

It does not appear, however, that his fancy led him with any decided bent to prose composition,
and he very early deserted it for verse; though he is said to have, at a comparatively late
period of his short life, worked in harness as a regular leader-writer for the Morning Post
during more than a year. No examples of this work of his have been reprinted, nor, so far as
I know, does any means of identifying them exist, though I personally should like to examine
them. He was still at Cambridge when he drifted into another channel, which was still not his
own channel, but in which he feathered his oars under two different flags with no small skill
and dexterity. Sir George Young has a very high idea of his uncle's political verse, and places
him "first among English writers, before Prior, before Canning, before the authors of the 'Rolliad,'
and far before Moore or any of the still anonymous contributors to the later London press."
I cannot subscribe to this. Neither as Whig nor as Tory, neither as satirist of George the
Fourth nor as satirist of the Reform Bill, does Praed seem to me to have been within a hundred
miles of that elder schoolfellow of his who wrote

    All creeping creatures, venomous and low,
    Still blasphemous or blackguard, praise Lepaux.

He has nothing for sustained wit and ease equal to the best pieces of the "Fudge Family" and
the "Two-penny Postbag"; and (for I do not know why one should not praise a man because he
happens to be alive and one's friend) I do not think he has the touch of the true political
satirist as Mr. Traill has it in "Professor Baloonatics Craniocracs," or in that admirable
satire on democracy which is addressed to the "Philosopher Crazed, from the Island of Crazes."

Indeed, by mentioning Prior, Sir George seems to put himself rather out of court. Praed is
very nearly if not quite Prior's equal, but the sphere of neither was politics. Prior's political
pieces are thin and poor beside his social verse, and with rare exceptions I could not put
anything political of Praed's higher than the shoe-string of "Araminta." Neither of these two
charming poets seems to have felt seriously enough for political satire. Matthew, we know,
played the traitor; and though Mackworth ratted to my own side, I fear it must be confessed
that he did rat. I can only discover in his political verse two fixed principles, both of which
no doubt did him credit, but which hardly, even when taken together, amount to a sufficient
political creed. The one was fidelity to Canning and his memory: the other was impatience of
the cant of the reformers. He could make admirable fun of Joseph Hume, and of still smaller
fry like Waithman; he could attack Lord Grey's nepotism and doctrinairism fiercely enough.
Once or twice, or, to be fair, more than once or twice, he struck out a happy, indeed a brilliant
flash. He was admirable at what Sir George Young calls, justly enough, "political patter songs"
such as,

    Young widowhood shall lose its weeds,
      Old kings shall loathe the Tories,
    And monks be tired of telling beads,
      And Blues of telling stories;
    And titled suitors shall be crossed,
      And famished poets married,
    And Canning's motion shall be lost,
      And Hume's amendment carried;
    And Chancery shall cease to doubt,
      And Algebra to prove,
    And hoops come in, and gas go out
      Before I cease to love.

He hit off an exceedingly savage and certainly not wholly just "Epitaph on the King of the
Sandwich Islands" which puts the conception of George the Fourth that Thackeray afterwards
made popular, and contains these felicitous lines:

    The people in his happy reign,
      Were blessed beyond all other nations:
    Unharmed by foreign axe and chain,
      Unhealed by civic innovations;
    They served the usual logs and stones,
      With all the usual rites and terrors,
    And swallowed all their fathers' bones,
      And swallowed all their fathers' errors.

    When the fierce mob, with clubs and knives,
      All swore that nothing should prevent them,
    But that their representatives
      Should actually represent them,
    He interposed the proper checks,
      By sending troops, with drums and banners,
    To cut their speeches short, and necks,
      And break their heads, to mend their manners.

Occasionally in a sort of middle vein between politics and society he wrote in the "patter"
style just noticed quite admirable things like "Twenty-eight and Twenty-nine." Throughout the
great debates on Reform he rallied the reformers with the same complete and apparently useless
superiority of wit and sense which has often, if not invariably, been shown at similar crises
on the losing side. And once, on an ever-memorable occasion, he broke into those famous and
most touching "Stanzas on seeing the Speaker Asleep" which affect one almost to tears by their
grace of form and by the perennial and indeed ever-increasing applicability of their matter.

    Sleep, Mr. Speaker: it's surely fair,
    If you don't in your bed, that you should in your chair:
    Longer and longer still they grow,
    Tory and Radical, Aye and No;
    Talking by night and talking by day;
    Sleep, Mr. Speaker; sleep, sleep while you may.
    Lord, how principles pass away!
    You have more need of sleep than they,
    Sleep, Mr. Speaker; sleep, sleep while you may.

But the chief merit of Praed's political verse as a whole seems to me to be that it kept his
hand in, and enabled him to develop and refine the trick, above referred to, of playing on
words so as to give a graceful turn to verse composed in his true vocation.

Of the verse so composed there are more kinds than one; though perhaps only in two kinds is
the author absolutely at his best. There is first a certain class of pieces which strongly
recall Macaulay's "Lays" and may have had some connexion of origin with them. Of course those
who are foolish enough to affect to see nothing good in "The Battle of the Lake Regillus,"
or "Ivry," or "The Armada," will not like "Cassandra," or "Sir Nicholas at Marston Moor," or
the "Covenanter's Lament for Bothwell Brigg," or "Arminius." Nevertheless they are fine in
their way. "Arminius" is too long, and it suffers from the obvious comparison with Cowper's
far finer "Boadicea." But its best lines, such as the well-known

    I curse him by our country's gods,
      The terrible, the dark,
    The scatterers of the Roman rods,
      The quellers of the bark,

are excellent in the style, and "Sir Nicholas" is charming. But not here either did Apollo
seriously wait for Praed. The later romances or tales are far better than the earlier. "The
Legend of the Haunted Tree" shows in full swing that happy compound and contrast of sentiment
and humour in which the writer excelled. And "The Teufelhaus" is, except "The Red Fisherman"
perhaps, the best thing of its kind in English. These lines are good enough for anything:

    But little he cared, that stripling pale,
    For the sinking sun or the rising gale;
    For he, as he rode, was dreaming now,
    Poor youth, of a woman's broken vow,
    Of the cup dashed down, ere the wine was tasted,
    Of eloquent speeches sadly wasted,
    Of a gallant heart all burnt to ashes,
    And the Baron of Katzberg's long moustaches.

And these:

    Swift as the rush of an eagle's wing,
    Or the flight of a shaft from Tartar string,
    Into the wood Sir Rudolph went:
    Not with more joy the schoolboys run
    To the gay green fields when their task is done;
    Not with more haste the members fly,
    When Hume has caught the Speaker's eye.

But in "The Red Fisherman" itself there is nothing that is not good. It is very short, ten
small pages only of some five-and-twenty lines each. But there is not a weak place in it from
the moment when "the Abbot arose and closed his book" to the account of his lamentable and
yet lucky fate and punishment whereof "none but he and the fisherman could tell the reason
why." Neither of the two other practitioners who may be called the masters of this style, Hood
and Barham, nor Praed himself elsewhere, nor any of his and their imitators has trodden the
breadthless line between real terror and mere burlesque with so steady a foot.

Still not here was his "farthest," as the geographers say, nor in the considerable mass of
smaller poems which practically defy classification. In them, as so often elsewhere in Praed,
one comes across odd notes, stray flashes of genius which he never seems to have cared to combine
or follow out, such as the unwontedly solemn "Time's Song," the best wholly serious thing that
he has done, and the charming "L'Inconnue." But we find the perfect Praed, and we find him
only, in the verses of society proper, the second part of the "Poems of Life and Manners" as
they are headed, which began, as far as one can make out, to be written about 1826, and the
gift of which Praed never lost, though he practised it little in the very last years of his
life. Here, in a hundred pages, with a few to be added from elsewhere, are to be found some
of the best-bred and best-natured verse within the English language, some of the most original
and remarkable metrical experiments, a profusion of the liveliest fancy, a rush of the gayest
rhyme. They begin with "The Vicar," vir nullâ non donandus lauru.

Three of the Vicar's companion "Everyday Characters" are good, but I think not so good as he;
the fifth piece, however, "The Portrait of a Lady," is quite his equal.

    You'll be forgotten--as old debts
      By persons who are used to borrow;
    Forgotten--as the sun that sets,
      When shines a new one on the morrow;
    Forgotten--like the luscious peach
      That blessed the schoolboy last September;
    Forgotten--like a maiden speech,
      Which all men praise, but none remember.

    Yet ere you sink into the stream
      That whelms alike sage, saint, and martyr,
    And soldier's sword, and minstrel's theme,
      And Canning's wit, and Gatton's charter,
    Here, of the fortunes of your youth,
      My fancy weaves her dim conjectures,
    Which have, perhaps, as much of truth
      As passion's vows, or Cobbett's lectures.

Here, and perhaps here first, at least in the order of the published poems, appears that curious
mixture of pathos and quizzing, sentiment and satire, which has never been mastered more fully
or communicated more happily than by Praed. But not even yet do we meet with it in its happiest
form: nor is that form to be found in "Josephine" which is much better in substance than in
manner, or in the half-social, half-political patter of "The Brazen Head," or in "Twenty-eight
and Twenty-nine." It sounds first in the "Song for the Fourteenth of February." No one, so
far as I know, has traced any exact original[20] for the altogether admirable metre which,
improved and glorified later in "The Letter of Advice," appears first in lighter matter still
like this:

    Shall I kneel to a Sylvia or Celia,
      Whom no one e'er saw, or may see,
    A fancy-drawn Laura Amelia,
      An ad libit Anna Marie?
    Shall I court an initial with stars to it,
      Go mad for a G. or a J.,
    Get Bishop to put a few bars to it,
    And print it on Valentine's Day?

But every competent critic has seen in it the origin of the more gorgeous and full-mouthed,
if not more accomplished and dexterous, rhythm in which Mr. Swinburne has written "Dolores,"
and the even more masterly dedication of the first "Poems and Ballads." The shortening of the
last line which the later poet has introduced is a touch of genius, but not perhaps greater
than Praed's own recognition of the extraordinarily vivid and ringing qualities of the stanza.
I profoundly believe that metrical quality is, other things being tolerably equal, the great
secret of the enduring attraction of verse: and nowhere, not in the greatest lyrics, is that
quality more unmistakable than in the "Letter of Advice." I really do not know how many times
I have read it; but I never can read it to this day without being forced to read it out loud
like a schoolboy and mark with accompaniment of hand-beat such lines as

    Remember the thrilling romances
      We read on the bank in the glen:
    Remember the suitors our fancies
      Would picture for both of us then.
    They wore the red cross on their shoulder,
      They had vanquished and pardoned their foe--
    Sweet friend, are you wiser or colder?
      My own Araminta, say "No!"

           ·       ·       ·       ·       ·

    He must walk--like a god of old story
      Come down from the home of his rest;
    He must smile--like the sun in his glory,
      On the buds he loves ever the best;
    And oh! from its ivory portal
      Like music his soft speech must flow!
    If he speak, smile, or walk like a mortal,
      My own Araminta, say "No!"

There are, metrically speaking, few finer couplets in English than the first of that second
stanza. Looked at from another point of view, the mixture of the comic and the serious in the
piece is remarkable enough; but not so remarkable, I think, as its extraordinary metrical accomplishment.
There is not a note or a syllable wrong in the whole thing, but every sound and every cadence
comes exactly where it ought to come, so as to be, in a delightful phrase of Southey's, "necessary
and voluptuous and right."

It is no wonder that when Praed had discovered such a medium he should have worked it freely.
But he never impressed on it such a combination of majesty and grace as in this letter of Medora
Trevilian. As far as the metre goes I think the eight-lined stanzas of this piece better suited
to it than the twelve-lined ones of "Good Night to the Season" and the first "Letter from Teignmouth,"
but both are very delightful. Perhaps the first is the best known of all Praed's poems, and
certainly some things in it, such as

    The ice of her ladyship's manners,
    The ice of his lordship's champagne,

are among the most quoted. But this antithetical trick, of which Praed was so fond, is repeated
a little often in it; and it seems to me to lack the freshness as well as the fire of the "Advice."
On the other hand, the "Letter from Teignmouth" is the best thing that even Praed has ever
done for combined grace and tenderness.

    You once could be pleased with our ballads--
      To-day you have critical ears;
    You once could be charmed with our salads--
      Alas! you've been dining with Peers;
    You trifled and flirted with many--
      You've forgotten the when and the how;
    There was one you liked better than any--
      Perhaps you've forgotten her now.
    But of those you remember most newly,
      Of those who delight or enthral,
    None love you a quarter so truly
      As some you will find at our Ball.

    They tell me you've many who flatter,
      Because of your wit and your song:
    They tell me--and what does it matter?--
      You like to be praised by the throng:
    They tell me you're shadowed with laurel:
      They tell me you're loved by a Blue:
    They tell me you're sadly immoral--
      Dear Clarence, that cannot be true!
    But to me, you are still what I found you,
      Before you grew clever and tall;
    And you'll think of the spell that once bound you;
      And you'll come--won't you come?--to our Ball!

Is not that perfectly charming?

It is perhaps a matter of mere taste whether it is or is not more charming than pieces like
"School and Schoolfellows" (the best of Praed's purely Eton poems) and "Marriage Chimes," in
which, if not Eton, the Etonian set also comes in. If I like these latter pieces less, it is
not so much because of their more personal and less universal subjects as because their style
is much less individual. The resemblance to Hood cannot be missed, and though I believe there
is some dispute as to which of the two poets actually hit upon the particular style first,
there can be little doubt that Hood attained to the greater excellence in it. The real sense
and savingness of that doctrine of the "principal and most excellent things," which has sometimes
been preached rather corruptly and narrowly, is that the best things that a man does are those
that he does best. Now though

    I wondered what they meant by stock,
      I wrote delightful Sapphics,

and

    With no hard work but Bovney stream,
      No chill except Long Morning,

are very nice things, I do not think they are so good in their kind as the other things that
I have quoted; and this, though the poem contains the following wholly delightful stanza in
the style of the "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Clapham Academy":

    Tom Mill was used to blacken eyes
      Without the fear of sessions;
    Charles Medlar loathed false quantities
      As much as false professions;
    Now Mill keeps order in the land,
      A magistrate pedantic;
    And Medlar's feet repose unscanned
      Beneath the wide Atlantic.

The same may even be said of "Utopia," a much-praised, often-quoted, and certainly very amusing
poem, of "I'm not a Lover now," and of others, which are also, though less exactly, in Hood's
manner. To attempt to distinguish between that manner and the manner which is Praed's own is
a rather perilous attempt; and the people who hate all attempts at reducing criticism to principle,
and who think that a critic should only say clever things about his subject, will of course
dislike me for it. But that I cannot help. I should say then that Hood had the advantage of
Praed in purely serious poetry; for Araminta's bard never did anything at all approaching "The
Plea of the Midsummer Fairies," "The Haunted House," or a score of other things. He had also
the advantage in pure broad humour. But where Praed excelled was in the mixed style, not of
sharp contrast as in Hood's "Lay of the Desert Born" and "Demon Ship," where from real pity
and real terror the reader suddenly stumbles into pure burlesque, but of wholly blended and
tempered humour and pathos. It is this mixed style in which I think his note is to be found
as it is to be found in no other poet, and as it could hardly be found in any but one with
Praed's peculiar talent and temper combined with his peculiar advantages of education, fortune,
and social atmosphere. He never had to "pump out sheets of fun" on a sick-bed for the printer's
devil, like his less well-fated but assuredly not less well-gifted rival; and as his scholarship
was exactly of the kind to refine, temper, and adjust his literary manner, so his society and
circumstances were exactly of the kind to repress, or at least not to encourage, exuberance
or boisterousness in his literary matter. There are I believe who call him trivial, even frivolous;
and if this be done sincerely by any careful readers of "The Red Fisherman" and the "Letter
of Advice" I fear I must peremptorily disable their judgment. But this appearance of levity
is in great part due exactly to the perfect modulation and adjustment of his various notes.
He never shrieks or guffaws: there is no horse-play in him, just as there is no tearing a passion
to tatters. His slight mannerisms, more than once referred to, rarely exceed what is justified
by good literary manners. His points are very often so delicate, so little insisted on or underlined,
that a careless reader may miss them altogether; his "questionings" are so little "obstinate"
that a careless reader may think them empty.

    Will it come with a rose or a brier?
      Will it come with a blessing or curse?
    Will its bonnets be lower or higher?
      Will its morals be better or worse?

The author of this perhaps seems to some a mere jesting Pilate, and if he does, they are quite
right not to even try to like him.

I have seen disdainful remarks on those critics who, however warily, admire a considerable
number of authors, as though they were coarse and omnivorous persons, unfit to rank with the
delicates who can only relish one or two things in literature. But this is a foolish mistake.
"One to one" is not "cursedly confined" in the relation of book and reader; and a man need
not be a Don Juan of letters to have a list of almost mille e tre loves in that department.
He must indeed love the best or those among the best only, in the almost innumerable kinds,
which is not a very severe restriction. And Praed is of this so fortunately numerous company.
I do not agree with those who lament his early death on the ground of its depriving literature
or politics of his future greatness. In politics he would most probably not have become anything
greater than an industrious and respectable official; and in letters his best work was pretty
certainly done. For it was a work that could only be done in youth. In his scholarly but not
frigidly correct form, in his irregular sallies and flashes of a genius really individual as
far as it went but never perhaps likely to go much farther, in the freshness of his imitations,
in the imperfection of his originalities, Praed was the most perfect representative we have
had or ever are likely to have of what has been called, with a perhaps reprehensible parody
on great words, "the eternal undergraduate within us, who rejoices before life." He is thus
at the very antipodes of Wertherism and Byronism, a light but gallant champion of cheerfulness
and the joy of living. Although there is about him absolutely nothing artificial--the curse
of the lighter poetry as a rule--and though he attains to deep pathos now and then, and once
or twice (notably in "The Red Fisherman") to a kind of grim earnestness, neither of these things
is his real forte. Playing with literature and with life, not frivolously or without heart,
but with no very deep cares and no very passionate feeling, is Praed's attitude whenever he
is at his best. And he does not play at playing as many writers do: it is all perfectly genuine.
Even Prior has not excelled such lines as these in one of his early and by no means his best
poems (an adaptation too), for mingled jest and earnest--

    But Isabel, by accident,
      Was wandering by that minute;
    She opened that dark monument
      And found her slave within it;
    The clergy said the Mass in vain,
      The College could not save me:
    But life, she swears, returned again
      With the first kiss she gave me.

Hardly, if at all, could he have kept up this attitude towards life after he had come to forty
year; and he might have become either a merely intelligent and respectable person, which is
most probable, or an elderly youth, which is of all things most detestable, or a caterwauler,
or a cynic, or a preacher. From all these fates the gods mercifully saved him, and he abides
with us (the presentation being but slightly marred by the injudicious prodigality of his editors)
only as the poet of Medora's musical despair lest Araminta should derogate, of the Abbot's
nightmare sufferings at the hands of the Red Fisherman, of the plaintive appeal after much
lively gossip--

    And you'll come--won't you come?--to our Ball,

of all the pleasures, and the jests, and the tastes, and the studies, and the woes, provided
only they are healthy and manly, of Twenty-five. Unhappy is the person of whom it can be said
that he neither has been, is, nor ever will be in the temper and circumstances of which Praed's
verse is the exact and consummate expression; not much less unhappy he for whom that verse
does not perform the best perhaps of all the offices of literature, and call up, it may be
in happier guise than that in which they once really existed, the many beloved shadows of the past.

FOOTNOTES:

[19] 1. The Poems of Winthrop Mackworth Praed, with a Memoir by the Rev. Derwent Coleridge.
In two volumes. London, 1864. 2. Essays by Winthrop Mackworth Praed, collected and arranged
by Sir George Young, Bart. London, 1887. 3. The Political and Occasional Poems of Winthrop
Mackworth Praed, edited, with Notes, by Sir George Young. London, 1888.

[20] Since I wrote this I have been reminded by my friend Mr. Mowbray Morris of Byron's

    I enter thy garden of roses,
    Beloved and fair Haidee.

It is not impossible that this is the immediate original. But Praed has so improved on it as
to deserve a new patent.

XIII

GEORGE BORROW

In this paper I do not undertake to throw any new light on the little-known life of the author
of Lavengro. Among the few people who knew Borrow intimately, surely some one will soon be
found who will give to the world an account of his curious life, and perhaps some specimens
of those "mountains of manuscript" which, as he regretfully declares, never could find a publisher--an
impossibility which, if I may be permitted to offer an opinion, does not reflect any great
credit on publishers. For the present purpose it is sufficient to sum up the generally-known
facts that Borrow was born in 1803 at East Dereham in Norfolk, his father being a captain in
the army, who came of Cornish blood, his mother a lady of Norfolk birth and Huguenot extraction.
His youth he has himself described in a fashion which nobody is likely to care to paraphrase.
After the years of travel chronicled in Lavengro, he seems to have found scope for his philological
and adventurous tendencies in the rather unlikely service of the Bible Society; and he sojourned
in Russia and Spain to the great advantage of English literature. This occupied him during
the greater part of the years from 1830 to 1840. Then he came back to his native country--or,
at any rate, his native district--married a widow of some property at Lowestoft, and spent
the last forty years of his life at Oulton Hall, near the piece of water which is thronged
in summer by all manner of sportsmen and others. He died but a few years ago; and even since
his death he seems to have lacked the due meed of praise which the Lord Chief Justice of the
equal foot usually brings, even to persons far less deserving than Borrow.

There is this difficulty in writing about him, that the audience must necessarily consist of
fervent devotees on the one hand, and of complete infidels, or at least complete know-nothings,
on the other. To any one who, having the faculty to understand either, has read Lavengro or
The Bible in Spain, or even Wild Wales, praise bestowed on Borrow is apt to seem impertinence.
To anybody else (and unfortunately the anybody else is in a large majority) praise bestowed
on Borrow is apt to look like that very dubious kind of praise which is bestowed on somebody
of whom no one but the praiser has ever heard. I cannot think of any single writer (Peacock
himself is not an exception) who is in quite parallel case. And, as usual, there is a certain
excuse for the general public. Borrow kept himself, during not the least exciting period of
English history, quite aloof from English politics, and from the life of great English cities.
But he did more than this. He is the only really considerable writer of his time in any modern
European nation who seems to have taken absolutely no interest in current events, literary
and other. Putting a very few allusions aside, he might have belonged to almost any period.
His political idiosyncrasy will be noticed presently; but he, who lived through the whole period
from Waterloo to Maiwand, has not, as far as I remember, mentioned a single English writer
later than Scott and Byron. There is not a reference to any one of them in his works. He saw
political changes such as no man for two centuries had seen, and (except the Corn Laws, to
which he has some half-ironical allusions, and the Ecclesiastical Titles Bill, which stirred
his one active sentiment) he has referred to never a one. He seems in some singular fashion
to have stood outside of all these things. His Spanish travels are dated for us by references
to Doña Isabel and Don Carlos, to Mr. Villiers and Lord Palmerston. But cut these dates out,
and they might be travels of the last century. His Welsh book proclaims itself as written in
the full course of the Crimean War; but excise a few passages which bear directly on that event,
and the most ingenious critic would be puzzled to "place" the composition. Shakespeare, we
know, was for all time, not of one age only; but I think we may say of Borrow, without too
severely or conceitedly marking the difference, that he was not of or for any particular age
or time at all. If the celebrated query in Longfellow's Hyperion, "What is time?" had been
addressed to him, his most appropriate answer, and one which he was quite capable of giving,
would have been, "I really don't know."

To this singular historical vagueness has to be added a critical vagueness even greater. I
am sorry that I am unable to confirm or to gainsay at first hand Borrow's wonderfully high
estimate of certain Welsh poets. But if the originals are anything like his translations of
them, I do not think that Ab Gwilym and Lewis Glyn Cothi, Gronwy Owen and Huw Morris can have
been quite such mighty bards as he makes out. Fortunately, however, a better test presents
itself. In one book of his, Wild Wales, there are two estimates of Scott's works. Borrow finds
in an inn a copy of Woodstock (which he calls by its less known title of The Cavalier), and
decides that it is "trashy": chiefly, it would appear, because the portrait therein contained
of Harrison, for whom Borrow seems, on one of his inscrutable principles of prejudice, to have
had a liking, is not wholly favourable. He afterwards informs us that Scott's "Norman Horseshoe"
(no very exquisite song at the best, and among Scott's somewhat less than exquisite) is "one
of the most stirring lyrics of modern times," and that he sang it for a whole evening; evidently
because it recounts a defeat of the Normans, whom Borrow, as he elsewhere tells us in sundry
places, disliked for reasons more or less similar to those which made him like Harrison, the
butcher. In other words, he could not judge a work of literature as literature at all. If it
expressed sentiments with which he agreed, or called up associations which were pleasant to
him, good luck to it; if it expressed sentiments with which he did not agree, and called up
no pleasant associations, bad luck.

In politics and religion this curious and very John Bullish unreason is still more apparent.
I suppose Borrow may be called, though he does not call himself, a Tory. He certainly was an
unfriend to Whiggery, and a hater of Radicalism. He seems to have given up even the Corn Laws
with a certain amount of regret, and his general attitude is quite Eldonian. But he combined
with his general Toryism very curious Radicalisms of detail, such as are to be found in Cobbett
(who, as appeared at last, and as all reasonable men should have always known, was really a
Tory of a peculiar type), and in several other English persons. The Church, the Monarchy, and
the Constitution generally were dear to Borrow, but he hated all the aristocracy (except those
whom he knew personally) and most of the gentry. Also, he had the odd Radical sympathy for
anybody who, as the vernacular has it, was "kept out of his rights." I do not know, but I should
think, that Borrow was a strong Tichbornite. In that curious book Wild Wales, where almost
more of his real character appears than in any other, he has to do with the Crimean War. It
was going on during the whole time of his tour, and he once or twice reports conversations
in which, from his knowledge of Russia, he demonstrated beforehand to Welsh inquirers how improbable,
not to say impossible, it was that the Russian should be beaten. But the thing that seems really
to have interested him most was the case of Lieutenant P---- or Lieutenant Parry, whom he sometimes
refers to in the fuller and sometimes in the less explicit manner. My own memories of 1854
are rather indistinct, and I confess that I have not taken the trouble to look up this celebrated
case. As far as I can remember, and as far as Borrow's references here and elsewhere go, it
was the doubtless lamentable but not uncommon case of a man who is difficult to live with,
and who has to live with others. Such cases occur at intervals in every mess, college, and
other similar aggregation of humanity. The person difficult to live with gets, to use an Oxford
phrase, "drawn." If he is reformable he takes the lesson, and very likely becomes excellent
friends with those who "drew" him. If he is not, he loses his temper, and evil results of one
kind or another follow. Borrow's Lieutenant P---- seems unluckily to have been of the latter
kind, and was, if I mistake not, recommended by the authorities to withdraw from a situation
which, to him, was evidently a false and unsuitable one. With this Borrow could not away. He
gravely chronicles the fact of his reading an "excellent article in a local paper on the case
of Lieutenant P----"; and with no less gravity (though he was, in a certain way, one of the
first humorists of our day) he suggests that the complaints of the martyred P---- to the Almighty
were probably not unconnected with our Crimean disasters. This curious parochialism pursues
him into more purely religious matters. I do not know any other really great man of letters
of the last three-quarters of a century of whose attitude Carlyle's famous words, "regarding
God's universe as a larger patrimony of Saint Peter, from which it were well and pleasant to
hunt the Pope," are so literally true. It was not in Borrow's case a case of sancta simplicitas.
He has at times flashes of by no means orthodox sentiment, and seems to have fought, and perhaps
hardly won, many a battle against the army of the doubters. But when it comes to the Pope,
he is as single-minded an enthusiast as John Bunyan himself, whom, by the way, he resembles
in more than one point. The attitude was, of course, common enough among his contemporaries;
indeed any man who has reached middle life must remember numerous examples among his own friends
and kindred. But in literature, and such literature as Borrow's, it is rare.

Yet again, the curiously piecemeal, and the curiously arbitrary character of Borrow's literary
studies in languages other than his own, is noteworthy in so great a linguist. The entire range
of French literature, old as well as new, he seems to have ignored altogether--I should imagine
out of pure John Bullishness. He has very few references to German, though he was a good German
scholar--a fact which I account for by the other fact, that in his earlier literary period
German was fashionable, and that he never would have anything to do with anything that fashion
favoured. Italian, though he certainly knew it well, is equally slighted. His education, if
not his taste for languages, must have made him a tolerable (he never could have been an exact)
classical scholar. But it is clear that insolent Greece and haughty Rome possessed no attraction
for him. I question whether even Spanish would not have been too common a toy to attract him
much, if it had not been for the accidental circumstances which connected him with Spain.

Lastly (for I love to get my devil's advocate work over), in Borrow's varied and strangely
attractive gallery of portraits and characters, most observers must perceive the absence of
the note of passion. I have sometimes tried to think that miraculous episode of Isopel Berners
and the Armenian verbs, with the whole sojourn of Lavengro in the dingle, a mere wayward piece
of irony--a kind of conscious ascetic myth. But I am afraid the interpretation will not do.
The subsequent conversation with Ursula Petulengro under the hedge might be only a companion
piece; even the more wonderful, though much less interesting, dialogue with the Irish girl
in the last chapters of Wild Wales might be so rendered by a hardy exegete. But the negative
evidence in all the books is too strong. It may be taken as positively certain that Borrow
never was "in love," as the phrase is, and that he had hardly the remotest conception of what
being in love means. It is possible that he was a most cleanly liver--it is possible that he
was quite the reverse: I have not the slightest information either way.

The foregoing remarks have, I think, summed up all Borrow's defects, and it will be observed
that even these defects have for the most part the attraction of a certain strangeness and
oddity. If they had not been accompanied by great and peculiar merits, he would not have emerged
from the category of the merely bizarre, where he might have been left without further attention.
But, as a matter of fact, all, or almost all, of his defects are not only counterbalanced by
merits, but are themselves, in a great degree, exaggerations or perversions of what is intrinsically
meritorious. With less wilfulness, with more attention to the literature, the events, the personages
of his own time, with a more critical and common-sense attitude towards his own crotchets,
Borrow could hardly have wrought out for himself (as he has to an extent hardly paralleled
by any other prose writer who has not deliberately chosen supernatural or fantastic themes)
the region of fantasy, neither too real nor too historical, which Joubert thought proper to
the poet. Strong and vivid as Borrow's drawing of places and persons is, he always contrives
to throw in touches which somehow give the whole the air of being rather a vision than a fact.
Never was such a John-a-Dreams as this solid, pugilistic John Bull. Part of this literary effect
of his is due to his quaint habit of avoiding, where he can, the mention of proper names. The
description, for instance, of Old Sarum and Salisbury itself in Lavengro is sufficient to identify
them to the most careless reader, even if the name of Stonehenge had not occurred on the page
before; but they are not named. The description of Bettws-y-Coed in Wild Wales, though less
poetical, is equally vivid. Yet here it would be quite possible for a reader, who did not know
the place and its relation to other named places, to pass without any idea of the actual spot.
It is the same with his frequent references to his beloved city of Norwich, and his less frequent
references to his later home at Oulton. A paraphrase, an innuendo, a word to the wise he delights
in, but anything perfectly clear and precise he abhors. And by this means and others, which
it might be tedious to trace out too closely, he succeeds in throwing the same cloudy vagueness
over times as well as places and persons. A famous passage--perhaps the best known, and not
far from the best he ever wrote--about Byron's funeral, fixes, of course, the date of the wondrous
facts or fictions recorded in Lavengro to a nicety. Yet who, as he reads it and its sequel
(for the separation of Lavengro and The Romany Rye is merely arbitrary, though the second book
is, as a whole, less interesting than the former), ever thinks of what was actually going on
in the very positive and prosaic England of 1824-25? The later chapters of Lavengro are the
only modern Roman d'Aventures that I know. The hero goes "overthwart and endlong," just like
the figures whom all readers know in Malory, and some in his originals. I do not know that
it would be more surprising if Borrow had found Sir Ozana dying at the chapel in Lyonesse,
or had seen the full function of the Grail, though I fear he would have protested against that
as popish. If his events are frequently as odd as a dream, they are always as perfectly commonplace
and real for the moment as the events of a dream are--a little fact which the above-mentioned
tellers of the above-mentioned fantastic stories are too apt to forget. It is in this natural
romantic gift that Borrow's greatest charm lies. But it is accompanied and nearly equalled,
both in quality and in degree, by a faculty for dialogue. Except Defoe and Dumas, I cannot
think of any novelists who contrive to tell a story in dialogue and to keep up the ball of
conversation so well as Borrow; while he is considerably the superior of both in pure style
and in the literary quality of his talk. Borrow's humour, though it is of the general class
of the older English--that is to say, the pre-Addisonian--humorists, is a species quite by
itself. It is rather narrow in range, a little garrulous, busied very often about curiously
small matters, but wonderfully observant and true, and possessing a quaint dry savour as individual
as that of some wines. A characteristic of this kind probably accompanies the romantic ethos
more commonly than superficial judges both of life and literature are apt to suppose; but the
conjunction is nowhere seen better than in Borrow. Whether humour can or cannot exist without
a disposition to satire co-existing, is one of those abstract points of criticism for which
the public of the present day has little appetite. It is certain (and that is what chiefly
concerns us for the present) that the two were not dissociated in Borrow. His purely satirical
faculty was very strong indeed, and probably if he had lived a less retired life it would have
found fuller exercise. At present the most remarkable instance of it which exists is the inimitable
portrait-caricature of the learned Unitarian, generally known as "Taylor of Norwich." I have
somewhere (I think it was in Miss Martineau's Autobiography) seen this reflected on as a flagrant
instance of ingratitude and ill-nature. The good Harriet, among whose numerous gifts nature
had not included any great sense of humour, naturally did not perceive the artistic justification
of the sketch, which I do not hesitate to call one of the most masterly things of the kind
in literature.

Another Taylor, the well-known French baron of that name, is much more mildly treated, though
with little less skill of portraiture. As for "the publisher" of Lavengro, the portrait there,
though very clever, is spoilt by rather too much evidence of personal animus, and by the absence
of redeeming strokes; but it shows the same satiric power as the sketch of the worthy student
of German who has had the singular ill-fortune to have his books quizzed by Carlyle, and himself
quizzed by Borrow. It is a strong evidence of Borrow's abstraction from general society that
with this satiric gift, and evidently with a total freedom from scruple as to its application,
he should have left hardly anything else of the kind. It is indeed impossible to ascertain
how much of the abundant character-drawing in his four chief books (all of which, be it remembered,
are autobiographic and professedly historical) is fact and how much fancy. It is almost impossible
to open them anywhere without coming upon personal sketches, more or less elaborate, in which
the satiric touch is rarely wanting. The official admirer of "the grand Baintham" at remote
Corcubion, the end of all the European world; the treasure-seeker, Benedict Mol; the priest
at Cordova, with his revelations about the Holy Office; the Gibraltar Jew; are only a few figures
out of the abundant gallery of The Bible in Spain. Lavengro, besides the capital and full-length
portraits above referred to, is crowded with others hardly inferior, among which only one failure,
the disguised priest with the mysterious name, is to be found. Not that even he has not good
strokes and plenty of them, but that Borrow's prejudices prevented his hand from being free.
But Jasper Petulengro, and Mrs. Hearne, and the girl Leonora, and Isopel, that vigorous and
slighted maid, and dozens of minor figures, of whom more presently, atone for him. The Romany
Rye adds only minor figures to the gallery, because the major figures have appeared before;
while the plan and subject of Wild Wales also exclude anything more than vignettes. But what
admirable vignettes they are, and how constantly bitten in with satiric spirit, all lovers
of Borrow know.

It is, however, perhaps time to give some more exact account of the books thus familiarly and
curiously referred to; for Borrow most assuredly is not a popular writer. Not long before his
death Lavengro, The Romany Rye, and Wild Wales were only in their third edition, though the
first was nearly thirty, and the last nearly twenty, years old. The Bible in Spain had, at
any rate in its earlier days, a wider sale, but I do not think that even that is very generally
known. I should doubt whether the total number sold, during some fifty years, of volumes surpassed
in interest of incident, style, character and description by few books of the century, has
equalled the sale, within any one of the last few years, of a fairly popular book by any fairly
popular novelist of to-day. And there is not the obstacle to Borrow's popularity that there
is to that of some other writers, notably the already-mentioned author of Crotchet Castle.
No extensive literary cultivation is necessary to read him. A good deal even of his peculiar
charm may be missed by a prosaic or inattentive reader, and yet enough will remain. But he
has probably paid the penalty of originality, which allows itself to be mastered by quaintness,
and which refuses to meet public taste at least half-way. It is certainly difficult at times
to know what to make of Borrow. And the general public, perhaps excusably, is apt not to like
things or persons when it does not know what to make of them.

Borrow's literary work, even putting aside the "mountains of manuscript" which he speaks of
as unpublished, was not inconsiderable. There were, in the first place, his translations, which,
though no doubt not without value, do not much concern us here. There is, secondly, his early
hackwork, his Chaines de l'Esclavage, which also may be neglected. Thirdly, there are his philological
speculations or compilations, the chief of which is, I believe, his Romano-Lavo-Lil, the latest
published of his works. But Borrow, though an extraordinary linguist, was a somewhat unchastened
philologer, and the results of his life-long philological studies appear to much better advantage
from the literary than from the scientific point of view. Then there is The Gypsies in Spain,
a very interesting book of its kind, marked throughout with Borrow's characteristics, but for
literary purposes merged to a great extent in The Bible in Spain. And, lastly, there are the
four original books, as they may be called, which, at great leisure, and writing simply because
he chose to write, Borrow produced during the twenty years of his middle age. He was in his
fortieth year when, in 1842, he published The Bible in Spain. Lavengro came nearly ten years
later, and coincided with (no doubt it was partially stimulated by) the ferment over the Ecclesiastical
Titles Bill. Its second part, The Romany Rye, did not appear till six afterwards, that is to
say, in 1857, and its resuscitation of quarrels, which the country had quite forgotten (and
when it remembered them was rather ashamed of), must be pronounced unfortunate. Last, in 1862,
came Wild Wales, the characteristically belated record of a tour in the principality during
the year of the Crimean War. On these four books Borrow's literary fame rests. His other works
are interesting because they were written by the author of these, or because of their subjects,
or because of the effect they had on other men of letters, notably Longfellow and Mérimée,
on the latter of whom Borrow had an especially remarkable influence. These four are interesting
of themselves.

The earliest has been, I believe, and for reasons quite apart from its biblical subject perhaps
deserves to be, the greatest general favourite, though its literary value is a good deal below
that of Lavengro. The Bible in Spain records the journeys, which, as an agent of the Bible
Society, Borrow took through the Peninsula at a singularly interesting time, the disturbed
years of the early reign of Isabel Segunda. Navarre and Aragon, with Catalonia, Valencia, and
Murcia, he seems to have left entirely unvisited; I suppose because of the Carlists. Nor did
he attempt the southern part of Portugal; but Castile and Leon, with the north of Portugal
and the south of Spain, he quartered in the most interesting manner, riding everywhere with
his servant and his saddle-bag of Testaments at, I should suppose, a considerable cost to the
subscribers of the Society and at, it may be hoped, some gain to the propagation of evangelical
principles in the Peninsula, but certainly with the results of extreme satisfaction to himself
and of a very delightful addition to English literature. He was actually imprisoned at Madrid,
and was frequently in danger from Carlists, and brigands, and severely orthodox ecclesiastics.
It is possible to imagine a more ideally perfect missionary; but it is hardly possible to imagine
a more ideally perfect traveller. His early habits of roughing it, his gipsy initiation, his
faculties as a linguist, and his other faculties as a born vagrant, certain to fall on his
feet anywhere, were all called into operation. But he might have had all these advantages and
yet lacked the extraordinary literary talent which the book reveals. In the first chapter there
is a certain stiffness; but the passage of the Tagus in the second must have told every competent
reader in 1842 that he had to deal with somebody quite different from the run of common writers,
and thenceforward the book never flags till the end. How far the story is rigidly historical
I should be very sorry to have to decide. The author makes a kind of apology in his preface
for the amount of fact which has been supplied from memory. I daresay the memory was quite
trustworthy, and certainly adventures are to the adventurous. We have had daring travellers
enough during the last half-century, but I do not know that any one has ever had quite such
a romantic experience as Borrow's ride across the Hispano-Portuguese frontier with a gipsy
contrabandista, who was at the time a very particular object of police inquiry. I daresay the
interests of the Bible Society required the adventurous journey to the wilds of Finisterra.
But I feel that if that association had been a mere mundane company and Borrow its agent, troublesome
shareholders might have asked awkward questions at the annual meeting. Still, this sceptical
attitude is only part of the official duty of the critic, just as, of course, Borrow's adventurous
journeys into the most remote and interesting parts of Spain were part of the duty of the colporteur.
The book is so delightful that, except when duty calls, no one would willingly take any exception
to any part or feature of it. The constant change of scene, the romantic episodes of adventure,
the kaleidoscope of characters, the crisp dialogue, the quaint reflection and comment relieve
each other without a break. I do not know whether it is really true to Spain and Spanish life,
and, to tell the exact truth, I do not in the least care. If it is not Spanish it is remarkably
human and remarkably literary, and those are the chief and principal things.

