"A more striking example cannot be found of this sort of intercourse than the representation
in the life of Madame George Sand of the proceedings between her father and his mother. There
is all the romance of affection between this mother and son. He writes her the most devoted
letters, he kisses her hand on every page, he is the very image of a gallant, charming, lovable
son, while at the same time he is secretly making arrangements for a private marriage with
a woman of low rank and indifferent reputation,--a marriage which he knows would be like death
to his mother. He marries, lives with his wife, has one or two children by her, before he will
pain the heart of his adored mother by telling her the truth. The adored mother suspects her
son, but no trace of the suspicion appears in her letters to him. The questions which an English
parent would level at him point-blank she is entirely too delicate to address to her dear Maurice;
but she puts them to the Prefect of Police, and ferrets out the marriage through legal documents,
while yet no trace of this knowledge dims the affectionateness of her letters, or the serenity
of her reception of her son when he comes to bestow on her the time which he can spare from
his family cares. In an English or American family there would have been a battle royal, an
open rupture; whereas this courteous son and mother go on for years with this polite drama,
she pretending to be deceived while she is not, and he supposing that he is sparing her feelings
by the deception.

"Now it is the reaction from such a style of life on the truthful Anglo-Saxon nature that leads
to an undervaluing of courtesy, as if it were of necessity opposed to sincerity. But it does
not follow, because all is not gold that glitters, that nothing that glitters is gold, and
because courtesy and delicacy of personal intercourse are often perverted to deceit, that they
are not valuable allies of truth. No woman would prefer a slippery, plausible rascal to a rough,
unceremonious honest man; but of two men equally truthful and affectionate, every woman would
prefer the courteous one."

"Well," said Bob, "there is a loathsome, sickly stench of cowardice and distrust about all
this kind of French delicacy that is enough to drive an honest fellow to the other extreme.
True love ought to be a robust, hardy plant, that can stand a free out-door life of sun and
wind and rain. People who are too delicate and courteous ever fully to speak their minds to
each other are apt to have stagnant residuums of unpleasant feelings which breed all sorts
of gnats and mosquitoes. My rule is, Say everything out as you go along; have your little tiffs,
and get over them; jar and jolt and rub a little, and learn to take rubs and bear jolts.

"If I take less thought and use less civility of expression, in announcing to Marianne that
her coffee is roasted too much, than I did to old Mrs. Pollux when I boarded with her, it's
because I take it Marianne is somewhat more a part of myself than old Mrs. Pollux was,--that
there is an intimacy and confidence between us which will enable us to use the short-hand of
life,--that she will not fall into a passion or fly into hysterics, but will merely speak to
cook in good time. If I don't thank her for mending my glove in just the style that I did when
I was a lover, it is because now she does that sort of thing for me so often that it would
be a downright bore to her to have me always on my knees about it. All that I could think of
to say about her graceful handiness and her delicate needle-work has been said so often, and
is so well understood, that it has entirely lost the zest of originality. Marianne and I have
had sundry little battles, in which the victory came out on both sides, each of us thinking
the better of the other for the vigor and spirit with which we conducted matters; and our habit
of perfect plain-speaking and truth-telling to each other is better than all the delicacies
that ever were hatched up in the hot-bed of French sentiment."

"Perfectly true, perfectly right," said I. "Every word good as gold. Truth before all things;
sincerity before all things: pure, clear, diamond-bright sincerity is of more value than the
gold of Ophir; the foundation of all love must rest here. How those people do who live in the
nearest and dearest intimacy with friends who they believe will lie to them for any purpose,
even the most refined and delicate, is a mystery to me. If I once know that my wife or my friend
will tell me only what they think will be agreeable to me, then I am at once lost, my way is
a pathless quicksand. But all this being premised, I still say that we Anglo-Saxons might improve
our domestic life, if we would graft upon the strong stock of its homely sincerity the courteous
graces of the French character.

"If anybody wishes to know exactly what I mean by this, let him read the Memoir of De Tocqueville,
whom I take to be the representative of the French ideal man; and certainly the kind of family
life which his domestic letters disclose has a delicacy and a beauty which adorn its solid worth.

"What I have to say on this matter is, that it is very dangerous for any individual man or
any race of men continually to cry up the virtues to which they are constitutionally inclined,
and to be constantly dwelling with reprobation on faults to which they have no manner of temptation.

"I think that we of the English race may set it down as a general rule that we are in no danger
of becoming hypocrites in domestic life through an extra sense of politeness, and in some danger
of becoming boors from a rough, uncultivated instinct of sincerity. But to bring the matter
to a practical point, I will specify some particulars in which the courtesy we show to strangers
might with advantage be grafted into our home-life.

"In the first place, then, let us watch our course when we are entertaining strangers whose
good opinion we wish to propitiate. We dress ourselves with care, we study what it will be
agreeable to say, we do not suffer our natural laziness to prevent our being very alert in
paying small attentions, we start across the room for an easier chair, we stoop to pick up
the fan, we search for the mislaid newspaper, and all this for persons in whom we have no particular
interest beyond the passing hour; while with those friends whom we love and respect we sit
in our old faded habiliments, and let them get their own chair, and look up their own newspaper,
and fight their own way daily, without any of this preventing care.

"In the matter of personal adornment, especially, there are a great many people who are chargeable
with the same fault that I have already spoken of in reference to household arrangements. They
have a splendid wardrobe for company, and a shabby and sordid one for domestic life. A woman
puts all her income into party-dresses, and thinks anything will do to wear at home. All her
old tumbled finery, her frayed, dirty silks and soiled ribbons, are made to do duty for her
hours of intercourse with her dearest friends. Some seem to be really principled against wearing
a handsome dress in every-day life; they 'cannot afford' to be well-dressed in private. Now
what I should recommend would be to take the money necessary for one or two party-dresses and
spend it upon an appropriate and tasteful home-toilette, and to make it an avowed object to
look prettily at home.

"We men are a sort of stupid, blind animals: we know when we are pleased, but we don't know
what it is that pleases us; we say we don't care anything about flowers, but if there is a
flower-garden under our window, somehow or other we are dimly conscious of it, and feel that
there is something pleasant there; and so when our wives and daughters are prettily and tastefully
attired, we know it, and it gladdens our life far more than we are perhaps aware of."

"Well, papa," said Jennie, "I think the men ought to take just as much pains to get themselves
up nicely after marriage as the women. I think there are such things as tumbled shirt-collars
and frowzy hair and muddy shoes brought into the domestic sanctuary, as well as frayed silks
and dirty ribbons."

"Certainly," I said; "but you know we are the natural Hottentot, and you are the missionaries
who are to keep from degenerating; we are the clumsy, old, blind Vulcan, and you the fair Cytherea,
the bearers of the magic cestus, and therefore it is to you that this head more particularly
belongs.

"Now I maintain that in family-life there should be an effort not only to be neat and decent
in the arrangement of our person, but to be also what the French call coquette,--or to put
it in plain English, there should be an endeavor to make ourselves look handsome in the eyes
of our dearest friends.

"Many worthy women, who would not for the world be found wanting in the matter of personal
neatness, seem some how to have the notion that any study of the arts of personal beauty in
family-life is unmatronly; they buy their clothes with simple reference to economy, an have
them made up without any question of becomingness; and hence marriage sometimes transforms
a charming, trim, tripping young lady into a waddling matron whose every-day toilette suggests
only the idea of a feather-bed tied round with a string. For my part, I do not believe that
the summary banishment of the Graces from the domestic circle as soon as the first baby makes
its appearance is at all conducive to domestic affection. Nor do I think that there is any
need of so doing. These housewives are in danger, like other saints, of falling into the error
of neglecting the body through too much thoughtfulness for others and too little themselves.
If a woman ever had any attractiveness; let her try and keep it, setting it down as one of
her domestic talents. As for my erring brothers firm who violate the domestic sanctuary by
tousled hair, tumbled linen, and muddy shoes, I deliver them over to Miss Jennie without benefit
of clergy.

"My second head is, that there should in family-life the same delicacy in the avoidance of
disagreeable topics that characterizes the intercourse of refined society among strangers.

"I do not think that it makes family-life more sincere, or any more honest, to have the members
of a domestic circle feel a freedom to blurt out in each other's faces, without thought or
care, all the disagreeable things that may occur to them: as, for example, 'How horridly you
look this morning! What's the matter with you?'--'Is there a pimple coming on your nose? or
what is that spot?'--'What made you buy such a dreadfully unbecoming dress? It sets like a
witch! Who cut it?'--'What makes you wear that pair of old shoes?'--'Holloa, Bess! is that
your party-rig? I should think you were going out for a walking advertisement of a flower-store!'--Observations
of this kind between husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, or intimate friends, do not
indicate sincerity, but obtuseness; and the person who remarks on the pimple on your nose is
in many cases just as apt to deceive you as the most accomplished Frenchwoman who avoids disagreeable
topics in your presence.

