A quick glance, as I passed in, informed me that Karlee's house consisted of four rooms; probably
two sleeping apartments, one for the men and another for the women, a kitchen, and a common
room for meals, family chats, and visitors. Like all true Hindoo houses, uncorrupted by the
European innovations which snobbish baboos affect, it contained but few articles of furniture,
and those of the simplest and most indispensable description,--nothing for luxury, nothing
for show. To the outfit of the poorest laborer's domicile he added little more than a white
cloth spread over checkered Chinese matting, to stand for chair, table, and bed; a cushion
or two to recline upon; a few earthen vessels of the better quality, to hold rice or water;
a brass lamp for cocoa-nut oil; several more primitive lamps rudely made of the shell of the
cocoa-nut; an iron mortar and pestle--foreign, of course--for pounding curry; a couple of charpoys,
or wooden cots; a few brass lotahs, or drinking-cups; and two or three hubble-bubbles. But
the crowning glories were a Chinese extension chair, of bamboo and wicker, and quite a pretty
hookah,--both evidently dedicated to company occasions. These were all that I could see in
the two rooms to which I was admitted, and these were no doubt the very splendors of Karlee's
establishment. If he had been a rich Anglicized baboo, he would have had a profusion of hot,
tawdry chairs, and a vulgar-gorgeous cramming of gilt-edged tables, sweaty red sofas, coarse
pictures in overdone frames, Bowery mirrors, and Brummagem chandeliers.

Comfortably installed in the Chinese chair, and refreshed with the Belatta pawnee, I proceeded
to take notes. Karlee had discarded his working dress for festal attire,--the difference being
one of quality merely. Round his waist he wore a dhotee of coarse muslin, tight above, so as
to form the kummerbund, or waistband, but thence falling in loose and not ungraceful folds
down the legs to the ankles. Over his body another ample mantle, in no respect differing from
the dhotee as to texture or color, was wrapped like a broad scarf, and carelessly flung over
the shoulder in the fashion of a Highland plaid. In the "cold" season he would draw this over
his head for a hood. These sheets of cloth are worn just as they come from the loom; needle
or pin has never touched them, and they are held in place by tucking the ends under the folds.

Being a Hindoo gentleman of the old school, Karlee repudiated the headdress at home; for the
puggree, at least in its present form, was adopted from the Mohammedan conquerors, and is,
historically, a badge of subjugation. So when he met me at the door his head was uncovered;
but I had no sooner crossed the threshold than he made haste to don his flat turban,--reflecting,
perhaps, that I had never seen him without it, and might resent his bare head as an indignity.
Of course his feet were unshod. To have worn his sandals in my presence would have been a flagrant
insult; but on the porch I espied those two queer clogs of wood, shaped to the sole of the
foot, and having no other fastening than an impracticable-looking knob, to be held between
the toes.

This is the orthodox Hindoo dress; but the costume for public occasions of many Hindoos of
rank has been for a quarter of a century in a state of transition from Mohammedan to British.
By way of turbans, loose trousers, Cashmere shawls, and embroidered slippers, they are marching
on toward pantaloons, waistcoats, shoes and stockings, stove-pipe hats, and tail-coats. A baboo
of superlative fashion, according to the code of Young Bengal, paid me a visit one day in a
state of confirmed "pants" and "Congress gaiters"; and, on seating himself, he took off his
turban and held it on his knee. I need hardly say that he was a fool and an infidel. And I
have seen an intrepid buffoon of this class in an English shirt, which he wore over his pantaloons,
and hanging down to his knees. But, after all, these clumsy desecrations are confined to a
small minority of the population, if not strictly to that "set" which is brought most closely
in contact with Europeans; such as a few native gentlemen in the Presidency capitals, some
of the pleaders and principal employés of the higher courts, not a few of the teachers and
pupils in the Anglo-Indian schools, and many of the native Christians.

Karlee's politeness, superior to that of the more servile bhearers, was a fair type of the
pure Hindoo manners of that well-bred middle class which clings with orthodox conservatism
to its dear traditions, and spurns as unconstitutional all upstart and dandy amendments of
the old social and religious law. He had invariably one salutation for an equal,--the right
hand gently raised, and the head as gently inclined to meet it; another, for what I may term
a familiar superior (such as myself),--the hands joined palm to palm, and so applied twice
or thrice to the forehead; and still other, and more and more reverential, ceremonials for
gooroos, Brahmins, holy sages, and princes,--the brow touching the ground, or the whole body
prostrated.

If it was an indispensable requirement of respect that he should leave his slippers at the
door on entering any house, it was no less important that he should resume them on taking his
leave. To have appeared in public with uncovered feet would have been a gross breach of propriety.
Fine old Hindoo gentlemen, all of the olden time, find it difficult to express their mingled
contempt, indignation, and regret for the innovation which substitutes the Cheapside shoe for
the ceremonial slipper, or permits the wearing of the latter in a Sahib's office or drawing-room.
It shows, they say, that the natives are losing their respect for the Sahibs. And yet the British
authorities stupidly sanction it, even set the seal of fashion upon it, by allowing natives
of rank, who visit Government House, to appear in the presence of the Governor-General, and
the élite of the European society, in their slippers. The fact is, these impious disturbings
of the established order of things are most shocking to the well-regulated heathen mind, to
which no spectacle can be more monstrous than that of a Hindoo of good caste and old family
performing with some arf-and-arf Cockney visitor a duet on the pump-handle, and directly afterward
wreathing his apoplectic neck with flowers, and sprinkling his asthmatic waistcoat with rose-water.
You see they both back "Young Bengal" in the Barrackpore races.

When Karlee visits his friend the sircar, he is scrupulous not to make his parting salaam until
his host has given the customary signal. He waits to be dismissed, or rather to receive permission
to withdraw. The etiquette supposes that his inclination is to prolong the enjoyment he derives
from the society of so agreeable a gentleman; it is, therefore, not until rose-water has been
presented to him, or betel-leaf, or sweetmeats, that he will venture to take his sandals and
his leave.

The style of Hindoo politeness is format and imperturbably grave, utterly devoid of heartiness
or impulsiveness; and the cordiality which distinguishes the intercourse of American friends
appears to the native gentleman boisterous and vulgar. I never saw Karlee laugh; and if I had
happened to snatch him from sudden death by fire or water, I think he would have acknowledged
the obligation with precisely the same mathematical salaam, or at most the same sententious
obsequiousness, with which he accepted a buksheesh of a half-rupee; and yet in both good-humor
and gratitude he was as cheerful and as worthy as the most giddy and gushing of damsels. But
I must acknowledge there was something truly corpsy in the solemnity with which he would "lay
out" a clean shirt. Even so, in the midst of all the jolly uproar of a mess dinner, our Kitmudgars
would stand in grim deadliness at our backs, like so many executioners, only waiting for a
sign from the ruthless Kousomar, who was just then horribly popping the champagne corks, to
behead us,--each his own doomed Sahib.

No wonder Karlee was a gentleman; for the Vishnu Pooran was his Chesterfield, and he had its
precepts by heart. "A wise man," he would say to the pert young Kitmudgars, as they bragged
and wrangled, between their hubble-bubbles, on the back stairs,--"a wise man will never address
another with the least unkindness; but will always speak gently, and with truth, and never
make public another's faults. He will never engage in a dispute with either his superiors or
his inferiors: controversy and marriage are permitted only between equals. Nor will he ever
associate with wicked persons: half an instant is the utmost time he should allow himself to
remain in their company. A wise man, when sitting, will not put one foot over the other, nor
stretch forth his foot in the presence of a superior; but he will sit with modesty, in the
posture styled virasama. Above all, he will not expectorate at the time of eating, offering
oblations, or repeating prayers, or in the presence of any respectable person; nor will he
ever cross the shadow of a venerable man or of an idol."

For those who imagine that polygamy is a popular institution in Hindostan, the answer of a
Hill-man to a Mofussil magistrate should suffice. "Do you keep more than one wife?" "We can
hardly feed one; why should we keep more?" In fact, the privilege of maintaining a plurality
of wives is restricted to a very few,--those only of the largest means and smallest scruples,--except
in the case of Kooleen Brahmins, that superlative aristocracy of caste which is supposed to
be descended from certain illustrious families who settled in Bengal several centuries ago.
Wealthy Hindoos of low degree eagerly aspire to the honor of mixing their puddle blood with
the quintessentially clarified fluid that glorifies the circulatory systems of these demigods,
and the result is a very pretty and profitable branch of the Brahmin business,--Kooleen marrying
sometimes as many as fifty of such nut-brown maids of baser birth, in consideration of a substantial
dowry attached to each bride, and a solemn obligation, accepted and signed by the paternal
Puddle, forever to feed at home her and her improved progeny. So the fifty continue to roost
in the old paternal coops, while Kooleen, like a pampered Brahmapootra, struts, in pompous
patronage, from one to the other, his sense of duty satisfied when he has left a crow and a
cackle behind him. It is said that many fine fowls of the Brahmin breed, who do not happen
to be Kooleens, complain of the monopoly.

So Karlee had but one wife,--the handy, thrifty ayah already mentioned. She was nine and he
twelve years old when they were betrothed, and they never saw each other until they were married.
A professional match-maker, or go-between,--female, of course,--was employed by the parents
to negotiate terms and arrange the preliminaries; and when horoscopes had been compared and
the stars found all right, with a little consequential chaffering, the hymeneal instruments
were "executed." There was no trouble on the score of caste, both families being soodra; otherwise,
the sensitive social balance would have had to be adjusted by the payment of a sum of money.
When the skirts of the bride and bridegroom had been fastened together with blades of the sweet-scented
cusa grass,--when he had said, "May that heart which is thine become my heart, and this heart
which is mine become thy heart,"--when, hand in hand, they had stept into the seventh of the
mystic circles,--Mr. and Mrs. Karlee were an accomplished Hindoo fact.

To the parents on both sides, the wedding was a costly performance. There were the irrepressible
and voracious Brahmins to propitiate, the hungry friends of both families to feast for three
days, the musicians and the nautch-girls and the tamasha-wallahs[19] to be bountifully buksheeshed;
and when the bridal palanquin was borne homeward, it was a high-priced indispensability that
the procession should satisfy the best soodra society,--

    "With the yellow torches gleaming,
    And the scarlet mantles streaming,
    And the canopy above
    Swaying as they slowly move."

Karlee has assured me that neither his father nor his father-in-law, although both were soodras
of fair credit and condition, ever quite recovered from the financial shock of that "awspidges
okashn."

A Hindoo very rarely pronounces the name of his wife, even to his most intimate friends,--to
strangers, and especially foreigners, never; on the part of a native visitor it is the etiquette
to ignore her altogether, and for the husband to allude to her familiarly is an unpardonable
breach of decorum. When, therefore, Karlee, to gratify my friendly curiosity, led in the happy
grandmother, I felt that I was the recipient of an extraordinary mark of respect and confidence,
involving a generous sacrifice of prejudice. As she made her modest salaam, and, in the manner
of a shy child, sank to the floor in the habitual posture of an ayah, I had before me the well-preserved
remains of a Hindoo beauty, according to the standard of the Shasters,--a placid, reposeful
woman, almost fat, with rather delicate features of Rajpoot fairness, the complexion of high
caste, wealth, and ease, such as her less-favored sisters vainly strive to imitate with a sort
of saffron rouge. Her expression was chaste and gentle, her voice dulcet; and to the practice
of carrying light burdens on her head she was indebted for a carriage erect and graceful. On
Broadway or Tremont Street, Mrs. Karlee would have passed for a very comely colored woman.
If she was not like Rama, fair as the jasmine, or the moon, or the fibres of the lotos, neither
had she, like Krishna, the complexion of a cloud. If she was not so delicate as that dainty
beauty who bewitched the hard heart of Surajah Dowlah, and weighed but sixty-four pounds, neither
did she reproduce the unwieldy charms of that Venus of one of the Shasters "whose gait was
the gait of a drunken elephant or a goose." A prudent man, says the Vishnoo Pooran, will not
marry a woman who has a beard, or one who has thick ankles, or one who speaks with a shrill
voice, or one who croaks like a raven, or one whose eyebrows meet, or one whose teeth resemble
tusks. And Karlee was a prudent man.

From the extravagant and clumsy complications, the stupid caprices and discords, and studious
indecencies of our women's fashions, to the prudent simplicity, the unconscious poetry and
picturesqueness and musically blended modesty and freedom of the good ayah's unchangeable attire,
my thought reverts with a mingled sense of refreshment and regret. A single web of cloth, eight
or nine yards long, having a narrow blue border, was drawn in self-forming folds around her
shoulders and bosom, and hung down to her feet,--the material muslin, the texture somewhat
coarse, the color white. No dressmaker had ever played fantastic tricks with it: it was pure
and simple in its entireness as it came from the loom.

Other women, of the laboring class, and very poor, passed to and fro on the street, half naked,
their legs and shoulders bare, and with only a piece of dirty cloth--blue, red, or yellow--around
the loins and hips; while here and there some superfine baboo's wife floated past in her close
palanquin, or sat with her children on the flat roof of her house, or peeped through her narrow
windows into the street, arrayed in fancy bodice and petticoat,--Mohammedan fashion.

But the simplicity of Mrs. Karlee's attire began and ended with her drapery. Her ornaments
were cumbersome, clumsy, and grotesque. On her arms and ankles were many fetter-like bands
of silver and copper; rude rings of gold and silver adorned her fingers and great toes; small
silver coins were twisted in her hair; and the naturally delicate outline of her lips was deformed
by a broad gold ring, which she wore, like a fractious ox, in her nose. This latter vanity
is as precious as it is ugly; in some of the minor castes its absence is regarded as a badge
of widowhood; and for no inducement would the pious ayah have removed it from its place, even
for an instant. Had it fallen, by any dreadful chance, the house would have been filled with
horror and lamentation. The half-naked wife of my syce rejoices in a nose-ring of brass or
pewter, and her wrists and ankles are gay with hoops of painted shell-lac; and even she stains
her eyelids with lampblack, and tinges her nails with henna. Much lovelier was our pretty ayah
in her maidenhood, when her dainty bosom was decked with shells and sweet-scented flowers,
and her raven hair lighted up with sprays of the Indian jasmine, which first she had offered
to Seeta.

But that reminds me that, when I approached her, and presented the string of corals, my small
salaamee, and bade Karlee tell her that it was for the baby,--for she understood not a word
of English,--and that I wished him happy stars and a good name, riches and honors, and a houseful
of sons,--she uttered not a word; but with eyes brimming with gratitude, flattered to tears,
by a sudden graceful movement she touched my foot with her hand and immediately laid it on
her head,--and then, with many shy and mute, but eloquent salaams, retired. It is difficult
to imagine such a woman scolding and slang-whanging as low Hindoo women do, accompanying with
passionate attitudes and gestures a reckless torrent of words, and fitting the foulest action
to the most scandalous epithet.

The wives of the native servants are generally industrious. This one, Karlee boasted, was a
notable housewife. Before she went out to service as an ayah she had cleaned the rice, pounded
the curry, cooked all the meals, brought water from the tank in earthen jars on her head, swept
and scrubbed the floor, cultivated a small kitchen garden, "shopped" at the bazaar, spun endless
supplies of cotton thread on a very primitive reel, consisting of a piece of wire with a ball
of clay at the end of it, which she twirled with one hand while she fed it with the other;
and every morning she bathed in the Hooghly, and returned home before daybreak. Sewing and
knitting were unknown arts to her,--she had no use for either; and her washing and ironing
were done by a hired dhobee.

True, it was not permitted to her to eat with her husband; when Karlee dined she sat at the
respectful orthodox distance, and waited; and if at any time they walked out together, ayah
must keep her legal place in the rear. Saith the Shaster, "Is it not the practice of women
of immaculate chastity to eat after their lords have eaten, to sleep only after they have slept,
and to rise from sleep before them?" And again, "Let a wife who wishes to perform sacred ablution
wash the feet of her lord, and drink the water." Nevertheless, ayah exercised an influence
over her husband as decided as it was wholesome; she did not hesitate to rebuke him when occasion
required; and in all that related to the moral government of her children she was free to dispute
his authority, and try parental conclusions with him,--kindly but firmly. As for "the tyrannical
immuring of the Oriental female," the cruel caging of the pretty birds who are supposed to
be forever longing and pining for the gossip of the ghaut and the bustle of the bazaar, the
only fault she had to find with it was that she did not get enough of it. The well-trained
Hindoo woman has been taught to regard such seclusion as her most charming compliment, and
a precious proof of her husband's affection; to be kept jealously veiled from the staring world,
is associated in her mind with ideas of wealth and rank,--it is the very aristocracy of fashion.

According to the Code of Menyu, "a believer in Scripture may receive pure knowledge even from
a soodra, a lesson of the highest virtue even from a chandala, and a woman bright as a gem
even from the lowest family." So if Karlee's wife, instead of being of the same social rank
as himself, had come of basest caste, she would still have been a treasure. Soon after she
had retired, she gently pushed into the room, to pay his respects to the Sahib, a shy little
boy of five years, whom Karlee presented to me as the child of his only son, a bhearer in the
service of an English officer stationed at Fort William. The mother had died in blessing her
husband with this bright little puttro. In costume he was the exact miniature of his grandfather,
except that he wore no puggree, and his hair was cut short round the forehead in a quaint frill,
like the small boys one sees running about the streets in Orissa. His ankles, too, were loaded
with massive silver rings, which noticeably impeded the childish freedom of his steps. When
he has begun to understand what the word "wife" means, these must be laid aside. In his manners,
likewise, little Karlee was the very tautology of his namesake with the gray moustache,--the
same wary self-possession, the same immovable gravity and nice decorum. Like a little courtier,
he made his small salaam, and through his grandfather replied to some playful questions I addressed
to him, with good emphasis and discretion, without either awkwardness or boldness, and especially
without a smile. When I gave him a rupee, he construed it as the customary signal, and with
another small salaam immediately dismissed himself.

Little Karlee must have taken lessons in deportment with his primal pap; and in India all good
little boys, who hope to go to heaven when they die, keep their noses clean, and never romp
or whistle. As to girls it matters less; the midwife gets only half price for consummating
that sort of blunder; for when you are dead only a son can carry you out and bury you dacent,--no
daughter, though she pray with the power and perseverance of the Seven Penitents, can procure
you a respectable metempsychosis.

So far little Karlee had been lucky. This house, where he was born, was lucky,--no one had
ever died in it. When his dear mother could not spin any more, they carried her to the Hooghly
on a charpoy, and she had breathed her last on the banks of the sacred river. Besides, his
grandfather had immediately stuck up a cooking-pot, striped with perpendicular white lines,
on a pole at the side of the house; so he had never been in any danger from malicious incantations
and the Evil Eye. His education had been begun on a propitious day, else he might have died
or turned out a dunce. The very day he was born, a Brahmin--O so pious!--had hung a charm round
his neck, and only charged grandpa fifty rupees for it; when he went to the bazaar with his
grandmother he was always dressed in rags, to avert envy, and no one out of the family knew
his real name except his gooroo; all the other boys, and the neighbors, called him Teencowry
(three cowries[20]),--such a nice mean name against spells and cross-eyed people! Once a strange
Melican Sahib had said, "Hello, Buster!" to him; but he wasn't at all frightened, for his gooroo
had taught him how to say a holy mautra[21] backwards; and when the Melican Sahib passed on,
he spat on his shadow and said it. Last week a lizard dropped on his foot, and yesterday he
saw a cow on his right hand three times,--he had always been so lucky!

Now, time, place, and mood being favorable, I called for the company hookah, and, extending
the long Chinese chair, smoked myself to sleep under the punka. My nap was a long one, and
when I awoke there watched and waited Karlee, tenderly patient, with the fly-flapper.

In the hospitalities thus far so handsomely extended to me, the reader will recognize and appreciate
an extraordinary display of liberal ideas, for which, however, considering the sound common
sense of my affectionate old bhearer, I was not altogether unprepared; but when, his little
grandson being gone, he conducted me into another room, to partake of what he humbly styled
a chota khana, a trifle of luncheon, my astonishment exceeded my gratification. I doubt if
such a thing had ever before happened in the life of a bhearer.

On the floor a broad sheet, of spotless whiteness, was spread, and beside it a narrow mattress
of striped seersucker, very clean and cool, and with a double cushion at the head to support
the elbow; on this my host invited me to recline. Here then were table and chair, but as yet
the board was bare. Presently little Karlee reappeared, bringing a great round hand-punka,
formed of a single huge palm-leaf, and, standing behind my shoulder, began to fan me solemnly.
Immediately there was a subdued and mysterious clapping of hands, and the old man, going to
the door, received, from behind the red curtain which hung across it, a bowl of coarse unglazed
earthenware, but smoking and savory, which he set before me, together with a smaller bowl of
the same material, empty; and to my lively surprise these were followed by English bunns and
pickles, a jar of chutney, a bottle of Allsop's ale, my own silver beer-mug, knives and forks,
table and dessert spoons, fruit-knife, and napkin,--all from our quarters in Cossitollah, two
miles away. By what conjuration and mighty magic Karlee had procured these from my kitmudgar
without a chittee, or order, I have not yet discovered.

The tureen contained delicious Mulligatawney soup, of which, as Karlee well knew, I was inordinately
fond; and as he opened the ale he modestly congratulated himself on my vigorous enjoyment of it.

After the soup came curried prawns, a very piquant dish, in eminent repute among the Sahibs,
and a famous appetizer. Tonic, hot, and pungent as it is, with spices, betel, and chillies,
it is hard to imagine what the torpid livers of the Civil Service would do without their rousing
curry.

The curry was followed by a tender bouilli of kid, sauced with a delicate sort of onions stewed
in ghee (boiled butter), and flanked with boiled rice, sweet pumpkin, and fried bananas, all
served on green leaves. Next came pine-apple, covered with sherry-wine and sugar, in company
with English walnuts and cheese; and, last of all, sweetmeats and coffee,--the former a not
unpleasant compound of ground rice and sugar with curds and the crushed kernel of the cocoa-nut;
the coffee was served in a diminutive gourd, and was not sweetened. Last of the last, the hookah.

And all these wonders had been wrought since the grateful ayah retired with the corals! But
then the bazaar was close at hand, and in the sircar's house help was handy.

Whilst I kanahed[22] and smoked, Karlee, humbly "squatting" at my back, allowed me to draw
from him all that I have here related of his house and family, and much more that I have not
space to relate. Of course, he could not have shared the repast with me,--all the holy water
of Ganges could never have washed out so deep a defilement,--but he accompanied my hookah with
his hubble-bubble. The reader has observed that, although the viands were choice enough, they
were laid on the cheapest pottery, and even on leaves, that the plate from which I ate was
of unglazed earthenware, and that the coffee was served in a gourd. This was in order that
they might be at once destroyed. By no special dispensation could those vessels ever again
be purified for the use of a respectable Hindoo; even a pariah would have felt insulted if
he had been asked to eat from them; and if the knives and forks and spoons had not been my
own, they must have shared the fate of the platters. But this prejudice must be taken in a
Pickwickian sense,--it covered no objection simply personal to the Sahib. In some castes it
is forbidden to eat from any plate twice, even in the strictest privacy of the family; and
many natives, however wealthy, scrupulously insist upon leaves. All respectable Hindoos lift
their food with their fingers, using neither knife, fork, nor spoon; and for this purpose they
employ the right hand only, the left being reserved for baser purposes. In drinking water,
many of them will not allow the lotah to touch the lips; but, throwing the head back, and holding
the vessel at arm's length on high, with an odd expertness they let the water run into their
mouths. The sect of Ramanujas obstinately refuse to sit down to a meal while any one is standing
by or looking on; nor will they chew betel in company with a man of low caste. Ward has written,
"If a European of the highest rank touch the food of a Hindoo of the lowest caste, the latter
will instantly throw it away, although he may not have another morsel to allay the pangs of
hunger";--but this is true only of certain very strait sects. There are numerous sects that
admit proselytes from every caste; but at the same time they will not partake of food, except
with those of their own religious party. "Here," says Kerr, "the spirit of sect has supplanted
even the spirit of caste,"--as at the temple of Juggernath in Orissa, where the pilgrims of
all castes take their khana in common.

At our quarters in Cossitollah even this progressive Karlee will not taste of the food which
has been served at our mess-table, though it be returned to the kitchen untouched. But at least
he is consistent; for neither will he take medicine from the hand of a Sahib, however ill he
may be; nor have I ever known him to decline or postpone the performance of this or that duty
because it was Sunday,--as many knavish bhearers do when they have set their hearts on a cock-fight.
To compound for sins one is inclined to, by damning those one has no mind to, it is not indispensable
that one should be a Christian.

The amiable Mr. James Kerr, of the Hindoo College of Calcutta, has contrived an ingenious and
plausible apology for the constitutional (or geographical) laziness of Bengalese servants.
He says: "A love of repose may be considered one of the most striking features in the character
of the people of India. The Hindoos may be said to have deified this state. Their favorite
notion of a Supreme Being is that of one who reposes in himself, in a dream of absolute quiescence.
This idea is, doubtless, in the first instance, a reflection of their own character; but, in
whatever way it originated, it tends to sanctify in their eyes a state of repose. When removed
from this world of care, their highest hope is to become a part of the great Quiescent. It
will naturally appear to them the best preparation for the repose of a future life to cultivate
repose in this." Therefore, if your kitmudgar, nodding behind your chair, permits his astonished
fly-flapper to become a part of the great Quiescent, or if your punka-wallah, having subsided
into a comatose beatitude, suddenly invites his compliant machine to repose in himself, in
a dream of absolute stagnation, with the thermometer at 120° outside the refrigerator, you
must not say, "Damn that boy,--he's asleep again!"--but patiently survey and intelligently
admire the spiritual processes by which an exalted sentient force prepares itself for the repose
of a future life. But our reckless Karlee took no thought for the everlasting rest into which
his soul should enter "when removed from this world of care," according to the ingenious psychological
system of the amiable Kerr Sahib; for when he had anything to do, he kept on doing it until
it was done, and when he caught the punka-wallah reposing in a dream of absolute quiescence,
he bumped his head against the wall, and called him a sooa, and a banchut, and a junglee-wallah.[23]

Though possessed of a lively imagination and all his race's sympathy with what is vast, though
he saw nothing extravagant in the Hindoo chronology, nor aught that was monstrous in Hindoo
mythology, Karlee yet served to illustrate the arguments of those who contend that Hindoos
need not necessarily be all boasters, servile liars, and flatterers. He was not forever saying,
"Master very wise man; master all time do good; master all time ispeak right." He never told
me that my words were pearls and diamonds that I dropped munificently from my mouth. He never
called me "your highness," or said I was his father and mother, and the lord of the world;
and if I said at noonday, "It is night," he did not exclaim, "Behold the moon and stars!" He
never tried to prove to me that the earth revolved on its axis once in twenty-four hours by
my favor. "What! dost thou think him a Christian that he would go about to deceive thee?" No,
he was as proudly truthful as a Rajpoot, as frank and manly as a Goorkah, and as honest as
an up-country Durwan.

Good by, my best of bhearers. To the new baby a good name, and to the faithful ayah enviable
enlargement of liver! Khodá rukho ki beebi-ka kulle-jee bhee itui burri hoga![24]--I owe thee
for a day of hospitable edifications; and when thou comest to my country, thou shalt find thy
Heathen at Home.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] A long, round, narrow bolster, stuffed with very light materials (often with paper), and
not for the head, but embraced in the arms, so as to help the sleeper to a cool and comfortable
posture.

[4] Body-servants.

[5] A salutation of particular respect and well-wishing.

[6] Waistband.

[7] Destiny, fortune.

[8] A table-servant.

[9] A spiritual teacher.

[10] Writer, clerk.

[11] Banker, merchant in foreign trade.

[12] The fourth caste--originally laborers.

[13] A native gentleman, of wealth, education, and influence.

[14] Hostler and footman.

[15] Washerman.

[16] Sweeper.

[17] Lit. Fan-fellow.

[18] "Good! Bring the Europe-water,"--Bengali for soda-water.

[19] Showmen and puppet-dancers.

[20] Little shells, used as coins by the poorest people to make the smallest change.

[21] Text.

[22] Dined.

[23] Pig, sot, and jungle-animal.

       *       *       *       *       *

A FRIEND.

    A friend!--It seems a simple boon to crave,--
          An easy thing to have.
    Yet our world differs somewhat from the days
          Of the romancer's lays.
    A friend? Why, all are friends in Christian lands.
          We smile and clasp the hands
    With merry fellows o'er cigars and wine.
          We breakfast, walk, and dine
    With social men and women. Yes, we are friends;--
          And there the music ends!
    No close heart-heats,--a cool sweet ice-cream feast,--
          Mild thaws, to say the least;--
    The faint, slant smile of winter afternoons;--
          The inconstant moods of moons,
    Sometimes too late, sometimes too early rising,--
          But for a night sufficing,
    Showing a half-face, clouded, shy, and null,--
          Once in a month at full,--
    Lending to-night what from the sun they borrow,
          Quenched in his light to-morrow.
    If thou'rt my friend, show me the life that sleeps
          Down in thy spirit's deeps.
    Give all thy heart, the thought within thy thought.
          Nay, I've already caught
    Its meaning in thine eyes, thy tones. What need
          Of words? Flowers keep their seed.
    I love thee ere thou tellest me "I love."
          We both are raised above
    The ball-room puppets with their varnished faces,
          Whispering dead commonplaces,
    Doing their best to dress their lifeless thought
          In tinselled phrase worth naught;
    Or at the best, throwing a passing spark
          Like fire-flies in the dark;--
    Not the continuous lamp-light of the soul,
          Which, though the seasons roll
    Without on tides of ever-varying winds,
          The watcher never finds
    Flickering in draughts, or dim for lack of oil.
          There is a clime, a soil,
    Where loves spring up twin-stemmed from mere chance seed
          Dropped by a word, a deed.
    As travellers toiling through the Alpine snow
          See Italy below;--
    Down glacier slopes and craggy cliffs and pines
          Descend upon the vines,
    And meet the welcoming South who half-way up
          Lifts her o'erbrimming cup,--

    So, blest is he, from peaks of human ice
          Lit on this Paradise;--
    Who 'mid the jar of tongues hears music sweet;--
          Who in some foreign street
    Thronged with cold eyes catches a hand, a glance,
          That deifies his chance,
    That turns the dreary city to a home,
          The blank hotel to a dome
    Of splendor, while the unsympathizing crowd
          Seems with his light endowed.
    Many there be who call themselves our friends.
          But ah! if Heaven sends
    One, only one, the fellow to our soul,
          To make our half a whole,
    Rich beyond price are we. The millionnaire
          Without such boon is bare,
    Bare to the skin,--a gilded tavern-sign
          Creaking with fitful whine
    Beneath chill winds, with none to look at him
          Save as a label grim
    To the good cheer and company within
          His comfortable inn.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SINGING-SCHOOL ROMANCE.

Father sits at the head of our pew. In old Indian times they say that the male head of the
family always took that place, on account of the possible whoops of the savages, who sometimes
came down on a congregation like wolves on the fold. It was necessary that the men should be
ready to rise at once to defend their families. Whatever the old reason was, the new is sufficient.
Men must sit near the pew doors now on account of the hoops of the ladies. The cause is different,
the effect is the same.

Father, then, sits at the head of the pew; mother next; Aunt Clara next; next I, and then Jerusha.
That has been the arrangement ever since I can remember. Any change in our places would be
as fatal to our devotions as the dislodgment of Baron Rothschild from his particular pillar
was once to the business of the London Stock Exchange. He could not negotiate if not at his
post. We could not worship if not in our precise places. I think, by the fussing and fidgeting
which taking seats in the church always causes, that everybody has the same feeling.

It was Sunday afternoon. The good minister, Parson Oliver, had finished his sermon. The text
was--well, I can't pretend to remember. Aunt Clara's behavior in meeting, and what she said
to us that afternoon, have put the text, sermon, and all out of my head forever. That is no
matter; or rather, it is all the better; for when the same sermon comes again, in its triennial
round, I shall not recognize an old acquaintance.

The sermon finished, we took up our hymn-books, of course. But the minister gave out no hymn.
He sat down with a patient look at the choir, as much as to say, "Now, do your worst!" Then
we understood that we were to be treated to an extra performance, not in our books. There had
been a renewal of interest in the choir, and there was a new singing-master. We were to have
the results of the late practisings and the first fruits of the new school.

