Meanwhile the king and queen of France and all their gay and careless court of nobles feasted
and danced as heedlessly as ever. They did not see the storm rising. The bitter taxes still
went on. The wine shop of Defarge looked as peaceful as ever, but the men who drank there now
were dreaming of murder and revenge. And the half-starved women, who sat and looked on as the
gilded coaches of the rich rolled through the streets, were sullenly waiting--watching Madame
Defarge as she silently knitted, knitted into her work names of those whom the people had condemned
to death without mercy.

One day this frightful human storm, which for so many years had been gathering in France, burst
over Paris. The poor people rose by thousands, seized whatever weapons they could get--guns,
axes, or even stones of the street--and, led by Defarge and his tigerish wife, set out to avenge
their wrongs. Their rage turned first of all against the Bastille, the old stone prison in
which so many of their kind had died, where Doctor Manette for eighteen years had made shoes.
They beat down the thick walls and butchered the soldiers who defended it, and released the
prisoners. And wherever they saw one of the king's uniforms they hanged the wearer to the nearest
lamp post. It was the beginning of the terrible Revolution in France that was to end in the
murder of thousands of innocent lives. It was the beginning of a time when Paris's streets
were to run with blood, when all the worst passions of the people were loosed, and when they
went mad with the joy of revenge.

The storm spread over France--to the village where stood the great château of the Evrémonde
family, and the peasants set fire to it and burned it to the ground. And Gabelle (the servant
who had been left in charge by Darnay, the new Marquis de St. Evrémonde, whom they had never
seen, but yet hated) they seized and put in prison. They stormed the royal palace and arrested
the king and queen, threw all who bore noble names or titles into dungeons, and, as they had
planned, set up a government of their own.

Darnay, safe in London with Lucie, knew little and thought less of all this, till he received
a pitiful letter from Gabelle, who expected each morning to be dragged out to be killed, telling
of the plight into which his faithfulness had brought him, and beseeching his master's aid.

This letter made Darnay most uneasy. He blamed himself, because he knew it was his fault that
Gabelle had been left so long in such a dangerous post. He did not forget that his own family,
the Evrémondes, had been greatly hated. But he thought the fact that he himself had refused
to be one of them, and had given his sympathy rather to the people they oppressed, would make
it possible for him to obtain Gabelle's release. And with this idea he determined to go himself
to Paris.

He knew the very thought of his going, now that France was mad with violence, would frighten
Lucie, so he determined not to tell her. He packed some clothing hurriedly and left secretly,
sending a letter back telling her where and why he was going. And by the time she read this
he was well on his way from England.

Darnay had expected to find no trouble in his errand and little personal risk in his journey,
but as soon as he landed on the shores of France he discovered his mistake. He had only to
give his real name, "the Marquis de St. Evrémonde," which he was obliged to do if he would
help Gabelle, and the title was the signal for rude threats and ill treatment. Once in, he
could not go back, and he felt as if a monstrous net were closing around him (as indeed, it
was) from which there was no escape.

He was sent on to Paris under a guard of soldiers, and there he was at once put into prison
to be tried--and in all probability condemned to death--as one of the hated noble class whom
the people were now killing as fast as they could.

The great room of the prison to which he was taken Darnay found full of ladies and gentlemen,
most of them rich and titled, the men chatting, the women reading or doing embroidery, all
courteous and polite, as if they sat in their own splendid homes, instead of in a prison from
which most of them could issue only to a dreadful death. He was allowed to remain here only
a few moments; then he was taken to an empty cell and left alone.

It happened that the bank of which Mr. Lorry was agent had an office also in Paris, and the
old gentleman had come there on business the day before Darnay arrived. Mr. Lorry was an Englishman
born, and for him there was no danger. He knew nothing of the arrest of Darnay until a day
or two later, when, as he sat in his room, Doctor Manette and Lucie entered, just arrived from
London, deeply agitated and in great fear for Darnay's safety.

As soon as Lucie had read her husband's letter she had followed at once with her father and
Miss Pross. Doctor Manette, knowing Darnay's real name and title (for, before he married Lucie,
he had told her father everything concerning himself), feared danger for him. But he had reasoned
that his own long imprisonment in the Bastille--the building the people had first destroyed--would
make him a favorite, and render him able to aid Darnay if danger came. On the way, they had
heard the sad news of his arrest, and had come at once to Mr. Lorry to consider what might
best be done.

While they talked, through the window they saw a great crowd of people come rushing into the
courtyard of the building to sharpen weapons at a huge grindstone that stood there. They were
going to murder the prisoners with which the jails were by this time full!

Fearful that he would be too late to save Darnay, Doctor Manette rushed to the yard, his white
hair streaming in the wind, and told the leaders of the mob who he was--how he had been imprisoned
for eighteen years in the Bastille, and that now one of his kindred, by some unknown error,
had been seized. They cheered him, lifted him on their shoulders and rushed away to demand
for him the release of Darnay, while Lucie, in tears, with Mr. Lorry and Miss Pross, waited
all night for tidings.

But none came that night. The rescue had not proved easy. Next day Defarge, the wine shop keeper,
brought a short note to Lucie from Darnay at the prison, but it was four days before Doctor
Manette returned to the house. He had, indeed, by the story of his own sufferings, saved Darnay's
life for the time being, but the prisoner, he had been told, could not be released without trial.

For this trial they waited, day after day. The time passed slowly and terribly. Prisoners were
no longer murdered without trial, but few escaped the death penalty. The king and queen were
beheaded. Thousands were put to death merely on suspicion, and thousands more were thrown into
prison to await their turn. This was that dreadful period which has always since been called
"The Reign of Terror," when no one felt sure of his safety.

There was a certain window in the prison through which Darnay sometimes found a chance to look,
and from which he could see one dingy street corner. On this corner, every afternoon, Lucie
took her station for hours, rain or shine. She never missed a day, and thus at long intervals
her husband got a view of her.

So months passed till a year had gone. All the while Doctor Manette, now become a well-known
figure in Paris, worked hard for Darnay's release. And at length his turn came to be tried
and he was brought before the drunken, ignorant men who called themselves judge and jury.

He told how he had years before renounced his family and title, left France, and supported
himself rather than be a burden on the peasantry. He told how he had married a woman of French
birth, the only daughter of the good Doctor Manette, whom all Paris knew, and had come to Paris
now of his own accord to help a poor servant who was in danger through his fault.

The story caught the fancy of the changeable crowd in the room. They cheered and applauded
it. When he was acquitted they were quite as pleased as if he had been condemned to be beheaded,
and put him in a great chair and carried him home in triumph to Lucie.

There was only one there, perhaps, who did not rejoice at the result, and that was the cold,
cruel wife of the wine seller, Madame Defarge, who had knitted the name "Evrémonde" so many
times into her knitting.

III

SYDNEY CARTON'S SACRIFICE

That same night of his release all the happiness of Darnay and Lucie was suddenly broken. Soldiers
came and again arrested him. Defarge and his wife were the accusers this time, and he was to
be retried.

The first one to bring this fresh piece of bad news to Mr. Lorry was Sydney Carton, the reckless
and dissipated young lawyer. Probably he had heard, in London, of Lucie's trouble, and out
of his love for her, which he always carried hidden in his heart, had come to Paris to try
to aid her husband. He had arrived only to hear, at the same time, of the acquittal and the
rearrest.

As Carton walked along the street thinking sadly of Lucie's new grief, he saw a man whose face
and figure seemed familiar. Following, he soon recognized him as the English spy, Barsad, whose
false testimony, years before in London, had come so near convicting Darnay when he was tried
for treason. Barsad (who, as it happened, was now a turnkey in the very prison where Darnay
was confined) had left London to become a spy in France, first on the side of the king and
then on the side of the people.

At the time of this story England was so hated by France that if the people had known of Barsad's
career in London they would have cut off his head at once. Carton, who was well aware of this,
threatened the spy with his knowledge and made him swear that if worst came to worst and Darnay
were condemned, he would admit Carton to the cell to see him once before he was taken to execution.
Why Carton asked this Barsad could not guess, but to save himself he had to promise.

Next day Darnay was tried for the second time. When the judge asked for the accusation, Defarge
laid a paper before him.

It was a letter that had been found when the Bastille fell, in the cell that had been occupied
for eighteen years by Doctor Manette. He had written it before his reason left him, and hidden
it behind a loosened stone in the wall; and in it he had told the story of his own unjust arrest.
Defarge read it aloud to the jury. And this was the terrible tale it told:

The Marquis de St. Evrémonde (the cruel uncle of Darnay), when he was a young man, had dreadfully
wronged a young peasant woman, had caused her husband's death and killed her brother with his
own hand. As the brother lay dying from the sword wound, Doctor Manette, then also a young
man, had been called to attend him, and so, by accident, had learned the whole. Horrified at
the wicked wrong, he wrote of it in a letter to the Minister of Justice. The Marquis whom it
accused learned of this, and, to put Doctor Manette out of the way, had him arrested secretly,
taken from his wife and baby daughter and thrown into a secret cell of the Bastille, where
he had lived those eighteen years, not knowing whether his wife and child lived or died. He
waited ten years for release, and when none came, at last, feeling his mind giving way, he
wrote the account, which he concealed in the cell wall, denouncing the family of Evrémonde
and all their descendants.

The reading of this paper by Defarge, as may be guessed, aroused all the murderous passions
of the people in the court room. There was a further reason for Madame Defarge's hatred, for
the poor woman whom Darnay's uncle had so wronged had been her own sister! In vain old Doctor
Manette pleaded. That his own daughter was now Darnay's wife made no difference in their eyes.
The jury at once found Darnay guilty and sentenced him to die by the guillotine the next morning.

Lucie fainted when the sentence was pronounced. Sydney Carton, who had witnessed the trial,
lifted her and bore her to a carriage. When they reached home he carried her up the stairs
and laid her on a couch.

Before he went, he bent down and touched her cheek with his lips, and they heard him whisper:
"For a life you love!"

They did not know until next day what he meant.

Carton had, in fact, formed a desperate plan to rescue Lucie's husband, whom he so much resembled
in face and figure, even though it meant his own death. He went to Mr. Lorry and made him promise
to have ready next morning passports and a coach and swift horses to leave Paris for England
with Doctor Manette, Lucie and himself, telling him that if they delayed longer, Lucie's life
and her father's also would be lost.

Next, Carton bought a quantity of a drug whose fumes would render a man insensible, and with
this in his pocket early next morning he went to the spy, Barsad, and bade him redeem his promise
and take him to the cell where Darnay waited for the signal of death.

Darnay was seated, writing a last letter to Lucie, when Carton entered. Pretending that he
wished him to write something that he dictated, Carton stood over him and held the phial of
the drug to his face. In a moment the other was unconscious. Then Carton changed clothes with
him and called in the spy, directing him to take the unconscious man, who now seemed to be
Sydney Carton instead of Charles Darnay, to Mr. Lorry's house. He himself was to take the prisoner's
place and suffer the penalty.

The plan worked well. Darnay, who would not have allowed this sacrifice if he had known, was
carried safely and without discovery, past the guards. Mr. Lorry, guessing what had happened
when he saw the unconscious figure, took coach at once with him, Doctor Manette and Lucie,
and started for England that very hour. Miss Pross was left to follow them in another carriage.

While Miss Pross sat waiting in the empty house, who should come in but the terrible Madame
Defarge! The latter had made up her mind, as Carton had suspected, to denounce Lucie also.
It was against the law to mourn for any one who had been condemned as an enemy to France, and
the woman was sure, of course, that Lucie would be mourning for her husband, who was to die
within the hour. So she stopped on her way to the execution to see Lucie and thus have evidence
against her.

When Madame Defarge entered, Miss Pross read the hatred and evil purpose in her face. The grim
old nurse knew if it were known that Lucie had gone, the coach would be pursued and brought
back. So she planted herself in front of the door of Lucie's room, and would not let Madame
Defarge open it.

The savage Frenchwoman tried to tear her away, but Miss Pross seized her around the waist,
and held her back. The other drew a loaded pistol from her breast to shoot her, but in the
struggle it went off and killed Madame Defarge herself.

Then Miss Pross, all of a tremble, locked the door, threw the key into the river, took a carriage
and followed after the coach.

Not long after the unconscious Darnay, with Lucie and Doctor Manette, passed the gates of Paris,
the jailer came to the cell where Sydney Carton sat and called him. It was the summons to die.
And with his thoughts on Lucie, whom he had always hopelessly loved, and on her husband, whom
he had thus saved to her, he went almost gladly.

A poor little seamstress rode in the death cart beside him. She was so small and weak that
she feared to die, and Carton held her cold hand all the way and comforted her to the end.
Cruel women of the people sat about the guillotine knitting and counting with their stitches,
as each poor victim died. And when Carton's turn came, thinking he was Darnay, the hated Marquis
de St. Evrémonde, they cursed him and laughed.

Men said of him about the city that night that it was the peacefullest man's face ever beheld
there. If they could have read his thought, if he could have spoken it in words it would have
been these:

"I see the lives, for which I lay down mine, peaceful and happy in that England I shall see
no more. I see Lucie and Darnay with a child that bears my name, and I see that I shall hold
a place in their hearts for ever. I see her weeping for me on the anniversary of this day.
I see the blot I threw upon my name faded away, and I know that till they die neither shall
be more honored in the soul of the other than I am honored in the souls of both. It is a far,
far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to
than I have ever known!"

BLEAK HOUSE

Published 1852-1853

Scene: London and the Country

Time: 1832 to 1852

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Jarndyce                             Master of Bleak House

    Mr. Boythorn                                        His friend

    Sir Leicester Dedlock                         An aged nobleman
                       Mr. Boythorn's neighbor

    Lady Dedlock                                          His wife

    Mr. Tulkinghorn                                     His lawyer

    Captain Hawdon       A dissipated and poverty-stricken copyist
                                     in London, known as "Nemo"

    Esther Summerson                           Mr. Jarndyce's ward
       In reality a daughter of Captain Hawdon and Lady Dedlock

    Ada Clare          }
                       }                     Wards of Mr. Jarndyce
    Richard Carstone   }

    Vholes                                        Richard's lawyer

    Mrs. Rouncewell                    Sir Leicester's housekeeper

    "Mr. George"           Proprietor of a London shooting-gallery
                               Her son

    Hortense                            Lady Dedlock's French maid

    Miss Flite                       A little, old, demented woman

    Mrs. Jellyby          A lady greatly interested in the welfare
                                                 of the heathen

    Caddy Jellyby                                     Her daughter

    Harold Skimpole             A trifler with life, preferring to
                                 live at other people's expense

    Allan Woodcourt                                A young surgeon

    Grandfather Smallweed                           A money-lender

    Mrs. Smallweed                                  His crazy wife

    Mr. Turveydrop              The proprietor of a dancing school
                                      and a model of deportment

    Prince Turveydrop              His son. Later, Caddy's husband

    Joe                                         A crossing sweeper

    Krook                         A dealer in rags and old bottles

    "Lady Jane"                                            His cat

BLEAK HOUSE

I

THE COURT OF CHANCERY

An Englishman named Jarndyce, once upon a time having made a great fortune, died and left a
great will. The persons appointed to carry out its provisions could not agree; they fell to
disputing among themselves and went to law over it.

The court which in England decides such suits is called the Court of Chancery. Its action is
slow and its delays many, so that men generally consider it a huge misfortune to be obliged
to have anything to do with it. Sometimes it has kept cases undecided for many years, till
the heirs concerned were dead and gone; and often when the decision came at last there was
no money left to be divided, because it had all been eaten up by the costs of the suit. Lawyers
inherited some cases from their fathers, who themselves had made a living by them, and many
suits had become so twisted that nobody alive could have told at last what they really meant.

Such came to be the case with the Jarndyce will. It had been tried for so many years that the
very name had become a joke. Those who began it were long since dead and their heirs either
knew nothing of it or had given up hope of its ever being ended.

The only one who seemed to be interested in it was a little old woman named Miss Flite, whom
delay and despair in a suit of her own had made half crazy. For many years she had attended
the Chancery Court every day and many thoughtless people made fun of her.

She was wretchedly poor and lived in a small room over a rag-and-bottle shop kept by a man
named Krook. Here she had a great number of birds in little cages--larks and linnets and goldfinches.
She had given them names to represent the different things which the cruel Chancery Court required
to carry on these shameful suits, such as Hope, Youth, Rest, Ashes, Ruin, Despair, Madness,
Folly, Words, Plunder and Jargon. She used to say that when the Jarndyce case was decided she
would open the cages and let the birds all go.

The last Jarndyce that was left had given up in disgust all thought of the famous lawsuit and
steadfastly refused to have anything to do with it. He lived quietly in the country in a big,
bare building called Bleak House. He was past middle-age, and his hair was silver-gray, but
he was straight and strong and merry.

He was rich, yet was so tender-hearted and benevolent that all who knew him loved him. Most
of his good deeds he never told, for he had a great dislike to being thanked. It used to be
said that once, after he had done an extremely generous thing for a relative of his, seeing
her coming in the front gate to thank him, he escaped by the back door and was not seen again
for three months. He never spoke ill of his neighbors, and whenever he was vexed he would pretend
to look for a weather-cock and say, "Dear, dear! The wind must be coming from the east!"

It happened, finally, that all the other Jarndyce heirs had died except two, a young girl named
Ada Clare and a young man named Richard Carstone. These two, who were cousins, were left orphans.
The master of Bleak House, therefore, in the goodness of his heart, offered them a home with
him, and this they thankfully accepted. Mr. Jarndyce now wished to find a companion for Ada
Clare; and this is how Esther Summerson comes into this story.

Esther was a sweet girl who had been brought up by a stern, hard-hearted woman whom she had
always called "godmother," in ignorance of her parentage. She had never known who were her
mother or father, for from earliest babyhood her godmother had forbidden her to ask questions
concerning them, and she would have had a sad and lonely youth but for her sunny disposition.

It was not till her godmother died suddenly that she found she had a guardian, and that he
was Mr. Jarndyce of Bleak House. How he came to be her guardian was a mystery to her, but she
was glad to find herself not altogether friendless. Although he had taken the pains to see
her more than once, and had noticed with pleasure what a cheerful, loving nature she had, yet
Esther had never, so far as she knew, seen him, so that she received his invitation to come
and live at Bleak House with joyful surprise.

She went, on the day appointed, to London, and there she met Ada, whom she began to love at
once, and Richard, a handsome, careless young fellow of nineteen. They spent the day together
and got well acquainted before they took the morrow's coach to Bleak House.

At the Chancery Court they met poor, crazy little Miss Flite, who insisted on taking them to
her room above the rag-and-bottle shop to show them her caged birds. And that night (as they
had been directed) they stayed at the house of a Mrs. Jellyby, of whom Mr. Jarndyce had heard
as a woman of great charity.

Mrs. Jellyby was a woman with a mission, which mission was the education of the natives of
Borrioboola-Gha, in Africa, and the cultivation there of the coffee-bean. She thought of nothing
else, and was for ever sending out letters or pamphlets about it.

But she seemed unable to see or think of anything nearer home than Africa. The house was unswept,
the children dirty and always under foot, and the meals half-cooked. She would sit all day
in slipshod slippers and a dress that did not meet in the back, drinking coffee and dictating
to her eldest daughter Caddy (who hated Africa and all its natives) letters about coffee cultivation
and the uplifting of the natives of Borrioboola-Gha.

A very strange sort of philanthropist both Esther and Ada thought Mrs. Jellyby. Perhaps, however,
Mr. Jarndyce sent them there for a useful lesson, for he afterward asked them what they thought
of her, and he seemed well pleased to learn that they considered her ideas of doing good in
the world extremely odd.

Next day they drove to Bleak House. Not one of them had ever seen Mr. Jarndyce, but they found
him all they had imagined and more--the kindest, pleasantest and most thoughtful person in
the world. Before they had been there two days they felt as if they had known him all their lives.

Bleak House was a building where one went up and down steps from one room to another, and where
there were always more rooms when one thought he had seen them all. In the daytime there was
horseback riding or walking to amuse them, and in the evenings Ada often sang and played to
the rest. Altogether the time flew by most pleasantly, and, judging by Mr. Jarndyce's jollity,
the wind seldom showed any signs of coming from the east.

It was soon clear to everybody that Richard was in love with Ada and that Ada was beginning
to love him in return. This pleased Mr. Jarndyce, for he was fond of both.

But he was fondest of Esther. He made her his housekeeper and she carried a big bunch of keys
and kept the house as clean as a new pin. He used to say she reminded him of:

    "Little old woman and whither so high?
    To sweep the cobwebs out of the sky."

She was so cheerful, he said, she would sweep the cobwebs out of anybody's sky. And from this
they took to calling her "Little Old Woman," and "Cobweb," and "Mother Hubbard," till none
of them thought of her real name at all.

Bleak House had a number of visitors who came more or less often. One of these was an old school
friend of Mr. Jarndyce's, named Boythorn. He was a big, blustering man with a laugh as big
as himself. Wherever he went he carried a tiny tame canary, that used to sit at meal-time perched
on the top of his great shaggy head. It was odd to see this wee bird sitting there unafraid,
even at one of his "ha-ha-ha's" that shook the whole house.

Mr. Boythorn was exceedingly tender-hearted, but took delight in pretending to be the stubbornest,
most cross-grained, worst-tempered individual possible. His neighbor was Sir Leicester Dedlock,
a dignified and proud old baronet, and him Mr. Boythorn loved to keep in perpetual anger by
bringing against him all manner of lawsuits regarding the boundary between their land.

Another visitor whom Esther found amusing was Harold Skimpole, a light, bright creature of
charming manners, with a large head and full of simple gaiety. He was a man who seemed to trifle
with everything. He sang a little, composed a little and sketched a little. But his songs were
never completed and his sketches never finished.

His aim in life seemed to be to avoid all responsibility, and to find some one else to pay
his debts. He always spoke of himself as a "child," though he was middle-aged. He claimed to
have no idea whatever of the value of money. He would take a handful of coins from his pocket
and say laughing, "Now, there's some money. I have no idea how much. I don't know how to count
it. I dare say I owe more than that. If good-natured people don't stop letting me owe them,
why should I? There you have Harold Skimpole." Mr. Jarndyce was far too honest and innocent
himself to see through the man's hollow selfishness and was continually paying his debts, as
they soon learned.

Most of all Bleak House's visitors, Esther came to like Allan Woodcourt, a handsome dark-haired
young surgeon, and before long she found herself unconsciously looking and longing for his
coming. Woodcourt was poor, however, and although he was in love with Esther he did not tell
her, but soon sailed away on a long voyage as a ship's doctor.

II

LADY DEDLOCK'S SECRET

Sir Leicester Dedlock, whom Mr. Boythorn so loved to torment, was seventy years old. His wife,
many years younger than himself, he had married for love. Lady Dedlock was not noble by birth--no
one, indeed, knew who she had been before her marriage--but she was very beautiful. She was
as proud and haughty, too, as she was lovely, and was much sought after. But with all her popularity
she had few close friends, and no one in whom she confided.

Even her housekeeper, Mrs. Rouncewell, a fine, handsome old woman who had been Sir Leicester's
servant for fifty years, thought her cold and reserved. Mrs. Rouncewell herself had had a son
George, who many years before had gone off to be a soldier and had never come back; and, looking
at her mistress's face, she often wondered if the shadow of pain there was the mark of some
old grief or loss of which no one knew. However that may have been, the old baronet loved his
wife and was very proud of her.

Sir Leicester's family lawyer was named Tulkinghorn. He was a dull, dignified man who always
dressed in black and seldom spoke unless he had to. His one passion was the discovery of other
people's secrets. He knew more family secrets than any one else in London, and to discover
a new one he would have risked all his fortune.

Now, among the very many persons connected in some way or other with the famous Jarndyce case,
which seemed destined never to end, was Sir Leicester Dedlock, and one day (the Chancery Court
having actually made a little progress) Mr. Tulkinghorn brought the baronet some legal papers
to read to him.

As the lawyer held one in his hand, Lady Dedlock, seeing the handwriting, asked in an agitated
voice who had written it. He answered that it was the work of one of his copyists. A moment
later, as he went on reading, they found that Lady Dedlock had fainted away.

Her husband did not connect her faintness with the paper, but Mr. Tulkinghorn did, and that
instant he determined that Lady Dedlock had a secret, that this secret had something to do
with the copyist, and that what this secret was, he, Tulkinghorn, would discover.

He easily found that the writing had been done by a man who called himself "Nemo," and who
lived above Krook's rag-and-bottle shop, a neighbor to crazy little Miss Flite of the Chancery
Court and the many bird-cages.

Krook himself was an ignorant, spectacled old rascal, whose sole occupations seemed to be to
sleep and to drink gin, a bottle of which stood always near him. His only intimate was a big,
gray, evil-tempered cat called "Lady Jane," who, when not lying in wait for Miss Flite's birds,
used to sit on his shoulder with her tail sticking straight up like a hairy feather. People
in the neighborhood called his dirty shop the "Court of Chancery," because, like that other
court, it had so many old things in it and whatever its owner once got into it never got out again.

In return for Mr. Tulkinghorn's money Krook told him all he knew about his lodger. Nemo, it
seemed, was surly and dissipated and did what legal copying he could get to do in order to
buy opium with which he drugged himself daily. So far as was known, he had but one friend--Joe,
a wretched crossing sweeper, to whom, when he had it, he often gave a coin.

Thus much the lawyer learned, but from the strange lodger himself he learned nothing. For when
Krook took him to the room Nemo occupied, they found the latter stretched on his couch, dead
(whether by accident or design no one could tell) of an overdose of opium.

Curious to see how Lady Dedlock would receive this news, Mr. Tulkinghorn called on her and
told her of the unknown man's death. She pretended to listen with little interest, but his
trained eye saw that she was deeply moved by it, and he became more anxious than ever to find
out what connection there could be between this proud and titled woman and the miserable copyist
who had lived and died in squalor.

Chance favored Mr. Tulkinghorn's object. One night he saw Joe, the ragged crossing sweeper
pointing out to a woman whose face was hidden by a veil, and whose form was closely wrapped
in a French shawl, the gate of the cemetery where Nemo had been buried. Later, at Sir Leicester's,
he saw Lady Dedlock's maid, Hortense--a black-haired, jealous French woman, with wolf-like
ways--wearing the same shawl.

He cunningly entrapped the maid into coming to his house one night wearing both veil and shawl,
and there brought her unexpectedly face to face with Joe. By the boy's actions Mr. Tulkinghorn
decided at once that Joe had never seen Hortense before, and that instant, he guessed the truth--that
the veiled woman who had gone to the cemetery was really Lady Dedlock herself, and that she
had worn her maid's clothes to mislead any observer.

This was a clever trick in the lawyer, but it proved too clever for his own good, for, finding
she had been enticed there for some deeper purpose, Hortense flew into a passion with him.
He sneered at her and turned her out into the street, threatening if she troubled him to have
her put into prison. Because of this she began to hate him with a fierceness which he did not
guess.

Mr. Tulkinghorn felt himself getting nearer to his goal. But he now had to find out who Nemo
really had been.

If he had only known it, Krook could have aided him. The old man had found a bundle of old
letters in Nemo's room after his death, and these were all addressed to "Captain Hawdon."

Krook himself could not read, except enough to spell out an address, and he had no idea what
the letters contained. But he was quick to think the bundle might be worth some money. So he
put it carefully away.

But Mr. Tulkinghorn found out nothing from Krook, for one day a strange thing happened. Krook
had drunk so much gin in his life that he had become perfectly soaked with alcohol, so that
he was just like a big spongeful of it. Now, it is a curious fact that when a great mass of
inflammable material is heaped together, sometimes it will suddenly burst into flame and burn
up all in a minute, without anything or anybody setting fire to it. This is just what happened
to Krook. As he stood in the middle of the dirty shop, without any warning, all in a twinkling,
he blazed up and burned, clothes and all, and in less time than it takes to tell it, there
was nothing left but a little pile of ashes, a burnt mark in the floor and a sticky smoke that
stuck to the window-panes and hung in the air like soot. And this was all the neighbors found
when they came to search for him.

This was the end of Krook, and the rag-and-bottle shop was taken possession of by Grandfather
Smallweed, a hideous, crippled money-lender, who had been his brother-in-law, and who at once
went to work ransacking all the papers he could find on the premises.

Grandfather Smallweed was a thin, toothless, wheezy, green-eyed old miser, who was so nearly
dead from age and asthma that he had to be wheeled about by his granddaughter Judy.

He had a wife who was out of her mind. Everything said in her hearing she connected with the
idea of money. If one said, for example, "It's twenty minutes past noon," Mrs. Smallweed would
at once begin to gabble: "Twenty pence! Twenty pounds! Twenty thousand millions of bank-notes
locked up in a black box!" and she would not stop till her husband threw a cushion at her (which
he kept beside him for that very purpose) and knocked her mouth shut.

Grandfather Smallweed soon discovered the bundle of letters hidden back of the shelf where
Lady Jane, Krook's big cat, slept.

The name they bore, "Captain Hawdon," was familiar enough to the money-lender. Long ago, when
Hawdon was living a dissipated life in London, he had borrowed money from Grandfather Smallweed,
and this money was still unpaid when he had disappeared. It was said that he had fallen overboard
from a vessel and had been drowned.

To think now that the captain had been living as a copyist all these years in London, free
from arrest for the debt, filled the wizened soul of the old man with rage. He was ready enough
to talk when Mr. Tulkinghorn questioned him, and finally sold him the bundle of letters.

The lawyer saw that they were in Lady Dedlock's penmanship; it remained to prove that the dead
Nemo had really been Captain Hawdon.

Mr. Tulkinghorn, of course, had many specimens of the copyist's hand, and after much search
he found a man who had once been a fellow soldier of the captain's. He was called "Mr. George,"
and kept a shooting-gallery. Mr. George had among his papers a letter once written him by Captain
Hawdon, and not knowing the purpose for which it was to be used, loaned it to the lawyer. The
handwriting was the same! And thus Mr. Tulkinghorn knew that the copyist had really been Captain
Hawdon and that the letters in the bundle had once been written to him by the woman who was
now the haughty Lady Dedlock.

It was a strange, sad story that the letters disclosed, as Mr. Tulkinghorn, gloating over his
success, read them, line by line. The man who had fallen so low as to drag out a wretched existence
by copying law papers--whom, until she saw the handwriting in the lawyer's hands, she had believed
to be dead--was a man Lady Dedlock had once loved.

Many years before, when a young woman, she had run away from home with him. A little child
was born to them whom she named Esther. When she and Hawdon had separated, her sister, to hide
from the world the knowledge of the elopement, had told her the baby Esther was dead, had taken
the child to another part of the country, given her the name of Summerson, and, calling herself
her godmother instead of her aunt, brought her up in ignorance of the truth. Years had gone
by and Captain Hawdon was reported drowned. At length the little Esther's mother had met and
married Sir Leicester Dedlock, and in his love and protection had thought her dark past buried
from view for ever.

All this the pitiless lawyer read in the letters, and knew that Lady Dedlock's happiness was
now in his hands. And as he thought how, with this knowledge, he could torture her with the
fear of discovery, his face took on the look of a cat's when it plays with a mouse it has caught.

Meanwhile Lady Dedlock had suffered much. The knowledge that Hawdon had not been drowned as
she had supposed, had come to her like a thunderclap. And the news of his death, following
so soon after this discovery, had unnerved her. She felt Mr. Tulkinghorn's suspicious eyes
watching her always and began to tremble in dread of what he might know.

In the midst of these fears, she accidentally discovered one day that the baby name of Esther
Summerson of Bleak House had been, not Summerson, but Hawdon.

This made Lady Dedlock guess the whole truth--that Esther was in reality her own daughter.

III

LITTLE JOE PLAYS A PART

While these events, which so closely concerned Esther, were occurring in London, life at Bleak
House went quietly on. Ada and Esther had become bosom friends, and both loved and respected
Mr. Jarndyce above every one. Harold Skimpole, as charming and careless as ever, and as willing
as ever that some one else should pay his debts for him, was often there, and whenever they
went to the city they saw Miss Flite and Mrs. Jellyby, the latter still busily sending letters
about the growing of coffee and the education of the natives of Borrioboola-Gha.

Esther grew especially to like Caddy, the slipshod daughter to whom Mrs. Jellyby dictated her
letters. The poor girl had much good in her, and Esther encouraged and helped her all she could.
Caddy finally fell in love with Prince Turveydrop, a blue-eyed, flaxen-haired young man whose
father kept a dancing school.

Old Mr. Turveydrop, his father, was a fat man with a false complexion, false teeth, false whiskers,
a wig and a padded chest. He always carried a cane, eye-glass and snuff-box and was so tightly
buttoned up that when he bowed you could almost see creases come into the whites of his eyes.
He thought himself a model of politeness and stood about to show off his clothes while he made
his son, Prince, do all the teaching.

Caddy was so tired of hearing about Africa that at last she married Prince and moved into the
Turveydrop dancing school, and Mrs. Jellyby had to hire a boy to help her with her great plans
for the education of the natives of Borrioboola-Gha.

Once Esther and Ada went with Mr. Jarndyce to visit Mr. Boythorn--the man with the tremendous
laugh and the pet canary--at his country house where he lived in one perpetual quarrel with
his neighbor, Sir Leicester Dedlock. Esther had often heard of the beauty of Lady Dedlock,
and one Sunday in the village church she saw her. There was something strangely familiar in
her look that reminded Esther of her godmother. An odd sensation came over her then and she
felt her heart beat quickly. But this was before Lady Dedlock had guessed the truth, and Esther
and she did not meet.

Richard Carstone had soon begun to be a source of great anxiety to all at Bleak House. It was
plainly to be seen that he loved Ada dearly, and that she loved him as well, but to Mr. Jarndyce's
regret he had begun to think and dream of the famous chancery suit and of the fortune that
would be his when it ended. Mr. Jarndyce, from his own bitter experience, hated the Chancery
Court and everything connected with it, and saw with grief that Richard was growing to be a
ne'er-do-well, who found it easier to trust in the future than to labor in the present.

In spite of all advice Richard went from bad to worse. He began the study of medicine, soon
changed this for law, and lastly decided to enter the army. He was naturally a spendthrift,
and as long as his money lasted Harold Skimpole found him a very fine friend and helped him
spend it.

Skimpole also introduced to him a knavish lawyer named Vholes, who made him believe the great
chancery suit must soon end in his favor, and who (when Richard had put the case in his hands)
proceeded to rob him of all he had. He poisoned his mind, too, against Mr. Jarndyce, so that
Richard began to think his truest friend deceitful.

Ada saw this with pain, but she loved Richard above all else, and the more so when she saw
him so wretched and deceived; and at last, without telling either Mr. Jarndyce or Esther what
she was going to do, she went to Richard one day and married him, so that, as her husband,
he could take the little fortune she possessed to pay Vholes to go on with the chancery suit.

A great misfortune befell Esther about this time--a misfortune that came to her, strangely
enough, through little Joe, the crossing sweeper.

Half-starved, ragged and homeless all his life, Joe had never known kindness save that given
to him by the poor copyist who had lived above Krook's rag-and-bottle shop. He lived (if having
a corner to sleep in can be called living) in a filthy alley called "Tom-all-Alone's." It seemed
to him that every one he met told him to "move on." The policeman, the shopkeepers at whose
doors he stopped for warmth, all told him to "move on," till the wretched lad wondered if there
was any spot in London where he could rest undisturbed.

Mr. Tulkinghorn, in his search to find out the woman who had hired Joe to show her the cemetery,
had dogged him so with his detective that at length the lad had become frightened and left
London for the open country. There he was taken very ill, and on the highway near Bleak House
one evening Esther found him helpless and delirious with fever.

Touched by his condition she had him taken at once to Bleak House and put to bed, intending
when morning came to send for a doctor.

But in the morning little Joe was missing. Though they searched high and low he was not to
be found, and they decided that in his delirium he had taken to the road again. It was not
till long after that Esther found his leaving had been brought about by Harold Skimpole, who
was then visiting Bleak House, and who, in his selfishness, feared the boy might be the bearer
of some contagious disease.

This unfortunately proved to be the case. Joe's illness was smallpox, and a few days later
a maid of Esther's fell ill with it. Esther nursed her day and night, and just as she was recovering
was stricken with it herself.

In her unselfishness and love for the rest, before unconsciousness came, she made the maid
promise faithfully to allow no one (particularly neither Mr. Jarndyce nor her beloved Ada)
to enter the room till all danger was past.

For many days Esther hovered between life and death and all the time the maid kept her word.
Caddy came from the Turveydrop dancing school early and late, and little Miss Flite walked
the twenty miles from London in thin shoes to inquire for her. And at length, slowly, she began
to grow well again.

But the disease had left its terrible mark. When she first looked in a mirror she found that
her beauty was gone and her face strangely altered.

This was a great grief to her at first, but on the day when Mr. Jarndyce came into her sick-room
and held her in his arms and said, "My dear, dear girl!" she thought, "He has seen me and is
fonder of me than before. So what have I to mourn for?" She thought of Allan Woodcourt, too,
the young surgeon somewhere on the sea, and she was glad that, if he had loved her before he
sailed away, he had not told her so. Now, she told herself, when they met again and he saw
her so sadly changed he would have given her no promise he need regret.

When she was able to travel, Esther went for a short stay at the house of Mr. Boythorn, and
there, walking under the trees she grew stronger.

One day, as she sat in the park that surrounded the house, she saw Lady Dedlock coming toward
her, and seeing how pale and agitated she was, Esther felt the same odd sensation she had felt
in the church. Lady Dedlock threw herself sobbing at her feet, and put her arms around her
and kissed her, as she told her that she was her unhappy mother, who must keep her secret for
the sake of her husband, Sir Leicester.

Esther thought her heart must break with both grief and joy at once. But she comforted Lady
Dedlock, and told her nothing would ever change her love for her, and they parted with tears
and kisses.

Another surprise of a different sort awaited Esther on her return to Bleak House. Mr. Jarndyce
told her that he loved her and asked her if she would marry him. And, remembering how tender
he had always been, and knowing that he loved her in spite of her disfigured face, she said yes.

But one day--the very day he returned--Esther saw Allan Woodcourt on the street. Somehow at
the first glimpse of him she knew that she had loved him all along. Then she remembered that
she had promised to marry Mr. Jarndyce, and she began to tremble and ran away without speaking
to Woodcourt at all.

But they soon met, and this time it was Joe the crossing sweeper who brought them together.
Woodcourt found the poor ragged wanderer in the street, so ill that he could hardly walk. He
had recovered from smallpox, but it had left him so weak that he had become a prey to consumption.
The kind-hearted surgeon took the boy to little Miss Flite and they found him a place to stay
in Mr. George's shooting-gallery, where they did what they could for him, and where Esther
and Mr. Jarndyce came to see him.

Joe was greatly troubled when he learned he had brought the smallpox to Bleak House, and one
day he got some one to write out for him in very large letters that he was sorry and hoped
Esther and all the others would forgive him. And this was his will.

On the last day Allan Woodcourt sat beside him, "Joe, my poor fellow," he said.

"I hear you, sir, but it's dark--let me catch your hand."

"Joe, can you say what I say?"

"I'll say anything as you do, sir, for I know it's good."

"Our Father."

"Hallowed be thy name."

"Hallowed be--thy----"

But the light had come at last. Little Joe was dead.

IV

ESTHER BECOMES THE MISTRESS OF BLEAK HOUSE

When the last bit of proof was fast in his possession Mr. Tulkinghorn, pluming himself on the
cleverness with which he had wormed his way into Lady Dedlock's secret, went to her at her
London home and informed her of all he had discovered, delighting in the fear and dread which
she could not help showing. She knew now that this cruel man would always hold his knowledge
over her head, torturing her with the threat of making it known to her husband.

Some hours after he had gone home, she followed him there to beg him not to tell her husband
what he had discovered. But all was dark in the lawyer's house. She rang the private bell twice,
but there was no answer, and she returned in despair.

By a coincidence some one else had been seen to call at Mr. Tulkinghorn's that same night.
This was Mr. George, of the shooting-gallery, who came to get back the letter he had loaned
to the lawyer.

When morning came it was found that a dreadful deed had been done that night. Mr. Tulkinghorn
was found lying dead on the floor of his private apartment, shot through the heart. All the
secrets he had so cunningly discovered and gloated over with such delight had not been able
to save his life there in that room.

Mr. Tulkinghorn was so well-known that the murder made a great sensation. The police went at
once to the shooting-gallery to arrest Mr. George and he was put into jail.

He was able later to prove his innocence, however, and, all in all, his arrest turned out to
be a fortunate thing. For by means of it old Mrs. Rouncewell, Lady Dedlock's housekeeper, discovered
that he was her own son George, who had gone off to be a soldier so many years before. He had
made up his mind not to return till he was prospering. But somehow this time had never come;
bad fortune had followed him and he had been ashamed to go back.

But though he had acted so wrongly he had never lost his love for his mother, and was glad
to give up the shooting-gallery and go with Mrs. Rouncewell to become Sir Leicester's personal
attendant.

At first, after the death of Mr. Tulkinghorn, Lady Dedlock had hoped that her dread and fear
were now ended, but she soon found that this was not to be. The telltale bundle of letters
was in the possession of a detective whom the cruel lawyer had long ago called to his aid,
and the detective, thinking Lady Dedlock herself might have had something to do with the murder,
thought it his duty to tell all that his dead employer had discovered to Sir Leicester.

It was a fearful shock to the haughty baronet to find so many tongues had been busy with the
name his wife had borne so proudly. When the detective finished, Sir Leicester fell unconscious,
and when he came to his senses had lost the power to speak.

They laid him on his bed, sent for doctors and went to tell Lady Dedlock, but she had disappeared.

Almost at one and the same moment the unhappy woman had learned not only that the detective
had told his story to Sir Leicester, but that she herself was suspected of the murder. These
two blows were more than she could bear. She put on a cloak and veil and, leaving all her money
and jewels behind her, with a note for her husband, went out into the shrill, frosty wind.
The note read:

"If I am sought for or accused of his murder, believe I am wholly innocent. I have no home
left, I will trouble you no more. May you forget me and forgive me."

They gave Sir Leicester this note, and great agony came to the stricken man's heart. He had
always loved and honored her, and he loved her no less now for what had been told him. Nor
did he believe for a moment that she could be guilty of the murder. He wrote on a slate the
words, "Forgive--find," and the detective started at once to overtake the fleeing woman.

He went first to Esther, to whom he told the sad outcome, and together they began the search.
For two days they labored, tracing Lady Dedlock's movements step by step, through the pelting
snow and wind, across the frozen wastes outside of London, where brick-kilns burned and where
she had exchanged clothes with a poor laboring woman, the better to elude pursuit--then back
to London again, where at last they found her.

But it was too late. She was lying frozen in the snow, at the gate of the cemetery where Captain
Hawdon, the copyist whom she had once loved, lay buried.

So Lady Dedlock's secret was hidden at last by death. Only the detective, whose business was
silence, Sir Leicester her husband, and Esther her daughter, knew what her misery had been
or the strange circumstances of her flight, for the police soon succeeded in tracing the murder
of Mr. Tulkinghorn to Hortense, the revengeful French maid whom he had threatened to put in prison.

One other shadow fell on Esther's life before the clouds cleared away for ever.

Grandfather Smallweed, rummaging among the papers in Krook's shop, found an old will, and this
proved to be a last will made by the original Jarndyce, whose affairs the Court of Chancery
had been all these years trying to settle. This will bequeathed the greater part of the fortune
to Richard Carstone, and its discovery, of course, would have put a stop to the famous suit.

But the suit stopped of its own accord, for it was found now that there was no longer any fortune
left to go to law about or to be willed to anybody. All the money had been eaten up by the costs.

After all the years of hope and strain, this disappointment was too much for Richard, and he
died that night, at the very hour when poor crazed little Miss Flite (as she had said she would
do when the famous suit ended) gave all her caged birds their liberty.

The time came at length, after the widowed Ada and her baby boy had come to make their home
with Mr. Jarndyce, when Esther felt that she should fulfil her promise and become the mistress
of Bleak House. So she told her guardian she was ready to marry him when he wished. He appointed
a day, and she began to prepare her wedding-clothes.

But Mr. Jarndyce, true-hearted and generous as he had always been, had an idea very different
from this in his mind. He had found, on Allan Woodcourt's return from his voyage, that the
young surgeon still loved Esther. His keen eye had seen that she loved him in return, and he
well knew that if she married him, Jarndyce, it would be because of her promise and because
her grateful heart could not find it possible to refuse him. So, wishing most of all her happiness,
he determined to give up his own love for her sake.

He bought a house in the town in which Woodcourt had decided to practise medicine, remodeled
it and named it "Bleak House," after his own. When it was finished in the way he knew Esther
liked best, he took her to see it, telling her it was to be a present from him to the surgeon
to repay him for his kindness to little Joe.

Then, when she had seen it all, he told her that he had guessed her love for Woodcourt, and
that, though she married the surgeon and not himself, she would still be carrying out her promise
and would still become the mistress of "Bleak House."

When she lifted her tearful face from his shoulder she saw that Woodcourt was standing near them.

"This is 'Bleak House,'" said Jarndyce.

HARD TIMES

Published 1854

Scene: Coketown (an English factory town) and the Country.

Time: About 1850

CHARACTERS

    Mr. Gradgrind                            A believer in "facts"

    Mrs. Gradgrind                                        His wife

    Louisa                                          Their daughter

    Tom                                                  Their son

    Josiah Bounderby               A pompous mill owner and banker
                        Later, Louisa's husband

    "Mrs. Pegler"                                       His mother

    Mrs. Sparsit                                   His housekeeper

    Mr. M'Choakumchild                              A schoolmaster

    Sleary                              The proprietor of a circus

    "Signor" Jupe                                        The clown

    Cecelia Jupe                    His daughter. Known as "Sissy"

    Stephen Blackpool  }
                       }                              Mill workers
    Rachel             }

    James Harthouse                             A man of the world

    "Merrylegs"                       Signor Jupe's performing dog

HARD TIMES

I

MR. GRADGRIND AND HIS "SYSTEM"

In a cheerless house called Stone Lodge, in Coketown, a factory town in England, where great
weaving mills made the sky a blur of soot and smoke, lived a man named Gradgrind. He was an
obstinate, stubborn man, with a square wall of a forehead and a wide, thin, set mouth. His
head was bald and shining, covered with knobs like the crust of a plum pie, and skirted with
bristling hair. He had grown rich in the hardware business, and was a school director of the town.

He believed in nothing but "facts." Everything in the world to him was good only to weigh and
measure, and wherever he went one would have thought he carried in his pocket a rule and scales
and the multiplication table. He seemed a kind of human cannon loaded to the muzzle with facts.

"Now, what I want is facts!" he used to say to Mr. M'Choakumchild, the schoolmaster. "Teach
boys and girls nothing but facts. Facts alone are wanted in life. Nothing else is of any service
to anybody. Stick to facts, sir."

He had several children whom he had brought up according to this system of his, and they led
wretched lives. No little Gradgrind child had ever seen a face in the moon, or learned Mother
Goose or listened to fairy stories, or read The Arabian Nights. They all hated Coketown, always
rattling and throbbing with machinery; they hated its houses all built of brick as red as an
Indian's face, and its black canal and river purple with dyes. And most of all they hated facts.

Louisa, the eldest daughter, looked jaded, for her imagination was quite starved under their
teachings. Tom, her younger brother, was defiant and sullen. "I wish," he used to say, "that
I could collect all the facts and all the figures in the world, and all the people who found
them out, and I wish I could put a thousand pounds of gunpowder under them and blow them all
up together!"

Louisa was generous, and the only love she knew was for her selfish, worthless brother, who
repaid her with very little affection. Of their mother they saw very little; she was a thin,
white, pink-eyed bundle of shawls, feeble and ailing, and had too little mind to oppose her
husband in anything.

Strangely enough, Mr. Gradgrind had once had a tender heart, and down beneath the facts of
his system he had it still, though it had been covered up so long that nobody would have guessed
it. Least of all, perhaps, his own children.

Mr. Gradgrind's intimate friend,--one whom he was foolish enough to admire,--was Josiah Bounderby,
a big, loud, staring man with a puffed head whose skin was stretched so tight it seemed to
hold his eyes open. He owned the Coketown mills and a bank besides, and was very rich and pompous.

Bounderby was a precious hypocrite, of an odd sort. His greatest pride was to talk continually
of his former poverty and wretchedness, and he delighted to tell everybody that he had been
born in a ditch, deserted by his wicked mother, and brought up a vagabond by a drunken grandmother--from
which low state he had made himself wealthy and respected by his own unaided efforts.

Now, this was not in the least true. As a matter of fact, his grandmother had been a respectable,
honest soul, and his mother had pinched and saved to bring him up decently, had given him some
schooling, and finally apprenticed him in a good trade. But Bounderby was so ungrateful and
so anxious to have people think he himself deserved all the credit, that after he became rich
he forbade his mother even to tell any one who she was, and made her live in a little shop
in the country forty miles from Coketown.

But in her good and simple heart the old woman was so proud of her son that she used to spend
all her little savings to come into town, sometimes walking a good part of the way, cleanly
and plainly dressed, and with her spare shawl and umbrella, just to watch him go into his fine
house or to look in admiration at the mills or the fine bank he owned. On such occasions she
called herself "Mrs. Pegler," and thought no one else would be the wiser.

The house in which Bounderby lived had no ornaments. It was cold and lonely and rich. He made
his mill-hands more than earn their wages, and when any of them complained, he sneered that
they wanted to be fed on turtle-soup and venison with a golden spoon.

Bounderby had for housekeeper a Mrs. Sparsit, who talked a great deal of her genteel birth,
rich relatives and of the better days she had once seen. She was a busybody, and when she sat
of an evening cutting out embroidery with sharp scissors, her bushy eyebrows and Roman nose
made her look like a hawk picking out the eyes of a very tough little bird. In her own mind
she had set her cap at Bounderby.

So firmly had Mr. Gradgrind put his trust in the gospel of facts which he had taught Louisa
and Tom that he was greatly shocked one day to catch them (instead of studying any one of the
dry sciences ending in "ology" which he made them learn) peeping through the knot holes in
a wooden pavilion along the road at the performance of a traveling circus.

The circus, which was run by a man named Sleary, had settled itself in the neighborhood for
some time to come, and all the performers meanwhile boarded in a near-by public house, The
Pegasus's Arms. The show was given every day, and at the moment of Mr. Gradgrind's appearance
one "Signor" Jupe, the clown, was showing the tricks of his trained dog, Merrylegs, and entertaining
the audience with his choicest jokes.

Mr. Gradgrind, dumb with amazement, seized both Louisa and Tom and led them home, repeating
at intervals, with indignation: "What would Mr. Bounderby say!"

This question was soon answered, for the latter was at Stone Lodge when they arrived. He reminded
Mr. Gradgrind that there was an evil influence in the school the children attended, which no
doubt had led them to such idle pursuits--this evil influence being the little daughter of
Jupe, the circus clown. And Bounderby advised Mr. Gradgrind to have the child put out of the
school at once.

The name of the clown's little daughter was Cecelia, but every one called her Sissy. She was
a dark-eyed, dark-haired, appealing child, frowned upon by Mr. M'Choakumchild, the schoolmaster,
because somehow many figures would not stay in her head at one time.

When the circus first came, her father, who loved her very much, had brought her to the Gradgrind
house and begged that she be allowed to attend school. Mr. Gradgrind had consented. Now, however,
at Bounderby's advice, he wished he had not done so, and started off with the other to The
Pegasus's Arms to find Signor Jupe and deny to little Sissy the right of any more schooling.

Poor Jupe had been in great trouble that day. For a long time he had felt that he was growing
too old for the circus business. His joints were getting stiff, he missed in his tumbling,
and he could no longer make the people laugh as he had once done. He knew that before long
Sleary would be obliged to discharge him, and this he thought he could not bear to have Sissy see.

He had therefore made up his mind to leave the company and disappear. He was too poor to take
Sissy with him, so, loving her as he did, he decided to leave her there where at least she
had some friends. He had come to this melancholy conclusion this very day, and had sent Sissy
out on an errand so that he might slip away, accompanied only by his dog, Merrylegs, while
she was absent.

Sissy was returning when she met Mr. Gradgrind and Bounderby, and came with them to find her
father. But at the public house she met only sympathizing looks, for all of the performers
had guessed what her father had done. They told her as gently as they could, but poor Sissy
was at first broken-hearted in her grief and was comforted only by the assurance that her father
would certainly come back to her before long.

While Sissy wept Mr. Gradgrind had been pondering. He saw here an excellent chance to put his
"system" to the test. To take this untaught girl and bring her up from the start entirely on
facts would be a good experiment. With this in view, then, he proposed to take Sissy to his
house and to care for and teach her, provided she promised to have nothing further to do with
the circus or its members.

Sissy knew how anxious her father had been to have her learn, so she agreed, and was taken
at once to Stone Lodge and set to work upon facts.

But alas! Mr. Gradgrind's education seemed to make Sissy low-spirited, but no wiser. Every
day she watched and longed for some message from her father, but none came. She was loving
and lovable, and Louisa liked her and comforted her as well as she could. But Louisa was far
too unhappy herself to be of much help to any one else.

Several years went by. Sissy's father had never returned. She had grown into a quiet, lovely
girl, the only ray of light in that gloomy home. Mr. Gradgrind had realized one of his ambitions,
had been elected to Parliament and now spent much time in London. Mrs. Gradgrind was yet feebler
and more ailing. Tom had grown to be a young man, a selfish and idle one, and Bounderby had
made him a clerk in his bank. Louisa, not blind to her brother's faults, but loving him devotedly,
had become, in this time, an especial object of Bounderby's notice.

Indeed, the mill owner had determined to marry her. Louisa had always been repelled by his
coarseness and rough ways, and when he proposed for her hand she shrank from the thought. If
her father had ever encouraged her confidence she might then have thrown herself on his breast
and told him all that she felt, but to Mr. Gradgrind marriage was only a cold fact with no
romance in it, and his manner chilled her. Tom, in his utter selfishness, thought only of what
a good thing it would be for him if his sister married his employer, and urged it on her with
no regard whatever for her own liking.

At length, thinking, as long as she had never been allowed to have a sentiment that could not
be put down in black and white, that it did not much matter whom she married after all, and
believing that at least it would help Tom, she consented.

She married Bounderby, the richest man in Coketown, and went to live in his fine house, while
Mrs. Sparsit, the housekeeper, angry and revengeful, found herself compelled to move into small
rooms over Bounderby's bank.

II

THE ROBBERY OF BOUNDERBY'S BANK

In one of Bounderby's weaving mills a man named Stephen Blackpool had worked for years. He
was sturdy and honest, but had a stooping frame, a knitted brow and iron-gray hair, for in
his forty years he had known much trouble.

Many years before he had married; unhappily, for through no fault or failing of his own, his
wife took to drink, left off work, and became a shame and a disgrace to the town. When she
could get no money to buy drink with, she sold his furniture, and often he would come home
from the mill to find the rooms stripped of all their belongings and his wife stretched on
the floor in drunken slumber. At last he was compelled to pay her to stay away, and even then
he lived in daily fear lest she return to disgrace him afresh.

What made this harder for Stephen to bear was the true love he had for a sweet, patient, working
woman in the mill named Rachel. She had an oval, delicate face, with gentle eyes and dark,
shining hair. She knew his story and loved him, too. He could not marry her, because his own
wife stood in the way, nor could he even see or walk with her often, for fear busy tongues
might talk of it, but he watched every flutter of her shawl.

One night Stephen went home to his lodging to find his wife returned. She was lying drunk across
his bed, a besotted creature, stained and splashed, and evil to look at. All that night he
sat sleepless and sick at heart.

Next day, at the noon hour, he went to his employer's house to ask his advice. He knew the
law sometimes released two people from the marriage tie when one or the other lived wickedly,
and his whole heart longed to marry Rachel.

But Bounderby told him bluntly that the law he had in mind was only for rich men, who could
afford to spend a great deal of money. And he further added (according to his usual custom)
that he had no doubt Stephen would soon be demanding the turtle-soup and venison and the golden
spoon.

Stephen went home that night hopeless, knowing what he should find there. But Rachel had heard
and was there before him. She had tidied the room and was tending the woman who was his wife.
It seemed to Stephen, as he saw her in her work of mercy, there was an angel's halo about her head.

Soon the wretched creature she had aided passed out of his daily life again to go he knew not
where, and this act of Rachel's remained to make his love and longing greater.

About this time a stranger came to Coketown. He was James Harthouse, a suave, polished man
of the world, good-looking, well-dressed, with a gallant yet indolent manner and bold eyes.

Being wealthy, he had tried the army, tried a Government position, tried Jerusalem, tried yachting
and found himself bored by them all. At last he had tried facts and figures, having some idea
these might help in politics. In London he had met the great believer in facts, Mr. Gradgrind,
and had been sent by him to Coketown to make the acquaintance of his friend Bounderby. Harthouse
thus met the mill owner, who introduced him to Louisa, now his wife.

The year of married life had not been a happy one for her. She was reserved and watchful and
cold as ever, but Harthouse easily saw that she was ashamed of Bounderby's bragging talk and
shrank from his coarseness as from a blow. He soon perceived, too, that the only love she had
for any one was given to Tom, though the latter little deserved it. In his own mind Harthouse
called her father a machine, her brother a whelp and her husband a bear.

Harthouse was attracted by Louisa's beauty no less than by her pride. He was without conscience
or honor, and determined, though she was already married, to make her fall in love with him.
He knew the surest way to her liking was to pretend an interest in Tom, and he at once began
to flatter the sullen young fellow. Under his influence the latter was not long in telling
the story of Louisa's marriage, and in boasting that he himself had brought it about for his
own advancement.

To Louisa, Harthouse spoke regretfully of the lad's idle habits, yet hopefully of his future,
so that she, deeming him honestly Tom's friend, confided in him, telling him of her brother's
love of gambling and how she had more than once paid his debts by selling some of her own jewelry.
In such ways as these Harthouse, step by step, gained an intimacy with her.

While Harthouse was thus setting his net, Stephen Blackpool, the mill worker, was on trial.

It was a time of great dissatisfaction among workmen throughout the country. In many towns
they were banding themselves together into "unions" in order to gain more privileges and higher
wages from their employers. This movement in time had reached Coketown. Rachel was opposed
to these unions, believing they would in the end do their members more harm than good, and
knowing her mind, Stephen had long ago promised her that he would never join one. The day had
come, however, when a workman who thus declined was looked on with suspicion and dislike by
his fellows, and at length--though all had liked and respected Stephen--because he steadfastly
refused to join the rest, he found himself shunned. Day after day he went to and from his work
alone and spoken to by none, and, not seeing Rachel in these days, was lonely and disheartened.

This condition of things did not escape the eye of Bounderby, who sent for Stephen and questioned
him. But even in his trouble, thinking his fellow workmen believed themselves in the right,
Stephen refused to complain or to bear tales of them. Bounderby, in his arrogance, chose to
be angry that one of his mill-hands should presume not to answer his questions and discharged
him forthwith, so that now Stephen found himself without friends, money or work.

Not wholly without friends, either, for Rachel was still the same. And he had gained another
friend, too. While he told her that evening in his lodgings what had occurred, and that he
must soon go in search of work in some other town, Louisa came to him. She had witnessed the
interview in which her husband had discharged this faithful workman, had found out where he
lived, and had made her brother Tom bring her there that she might tell Stephen how sorry she
was and beg him to accept money from her to help him in his distress.

This kindness touched Stephen. He thanked her and took as a loan a small portion of the money
she offered him.

Tom had come on this errand with his sister in a sulky humor. While he listened now a thought
came to him. As Louisa talked with Rachel, he beckoned Stephen from the room and told him that
he could perhaps aid him in finding work. He told him to wait during the next two or three
evenings near the door of Bounderby's bank, and promised that he himself would seek Stephen
there and tell him further.

There was no kindness, however, in this proposal. It was a sudden plan, wicked and cowardly.
Tom had become a criminal. He had stolen money from the bank and trembled daily lest the theft
become known. What would be easier now, he thought, than to hide his crime, by throwing suspicion
on some one else? He could force the door of the safe before he left at night, and drop a key
of the bank door, which he had secretly made, in the street where it would afterward be found.
He himself, then, next morning, could appear to find the safe open and the money missing. Stephen,
he considered, would be just the one to throw suspicion upon.

All unconscious of this plot, Stephen in good faith waited near the bank during three evenings,
walking past the building again and again, watching vainly for Tom to appear. Mrs. Sparsit,
at her upper window, wondered to see his bowed form haunting the place. Nothing came of his
waiting, however, and the fourth morning saw him, with his thoughts on Rachel, trudging out
of town along the highroad, bravely and uncomplainingly, toward whatever new lot the future
held for him.

Tom's plot worked well. Next day there was a sensation in Coketown. Bounderby's bank was found
to have been robbed. The safe, Tom declared, he had found open, with a large part of its contents
missing. A key to the bank door was picked up in the street; this, it was concluded, the thief
had thrown away after using. Who had done it? Had any suspicious person been seen about the place?

Many people remembered a strange old woman, apparently from the country, who called herself
"Mrs. Pegler," and who had often been seen standing looking fixedly at the bank. What more
natural than to suspect her?

Then another rumor began to grow. Stephen Blackpool, discharged from the mill by Bounderby
himself--the workman who had been shunned by all his comrades, to whom no one spoke--he had
been seen recently loitering, night after night, near the robbed bank. Where was he? Gone,
none knew where!

In an hour Stephen was suspected. By the next day half of Coketown believed him guilty.

III

HARTHOUSE'S PLAN FAILS

Two persons, however, had a suspicion of the truth. One of these was the porter of the bank,
whose suspicion was strong. The other was Louisa, who, though her love denied it room, hid
in her secret heart a fear that her brother had had a share in the crime. In the night she
went to Tom's bedside, put her arms around him and begged him to tell her any secret he might
be keeping from her. But he answered sullenly that he did not know what she meant.

Mrs. Sparsit's fine-bred nerves (so she insisted) were so shaken by the robbery that she came
to Bounderby's house to remain till she recovered.

The feeble, pink-eyed bundle of shawls that was Mrs. Gradgrind, happening to die at this time,
and Louisa being absent at her mother's funeral, Mrs. Sparsit saw her opportunity. She had
never forgiven Louisa for marrying Bounderby, and she now revenged herself by a course of such
flattery that the vulgar bully began to think his cold, proud wife much too regardless of him
and of his importance.

What pleased the hawk-faced old busybody most was the game the suave Harthouse was playing,
which she was sharp enough to see through at once. If Louisa would only disgrace herself by
running away with Harthouse, thought Mrs. Sparsit, Bounderby might be free again and she might
marry him. So she watched narrowly the growing intimacy between them, hoping for Louisa's ruin.

There came a day when Bounderby was summoned on business to London, and Louisa stayed meanwhile
at the Bounderby country house, which lay some distance from Coketown. Mrs. Sparsit guessed
that Harthouse would use this chance to see Louisa alone, and, to spy upon her, took the train
herself, reaching there at nightfall.

She went afoot from the station to the grounds, opened the gate softly and crept close to the
house. Here and there in the dusk, through garden and wood, she stole, and at length she found
what she sought. There under the trees stood Harthouse, his horse tied near by, and talking
with him was Louisa.

Mrs. Sparsit stood behind a tree, like Robinson Crusoe in his ambuscade against the savages,
and listened with all her ears. She could not hear all, but caught enough to know that he was
telling her he loved her, and begging her to leave her husband, her home and friends, and to
run away with him.

In her delight and in the noise of rain upon the foliage (for a thunder-storm was rolling up)
Mrs. Sparsit did not catch Louisa's answer. Where and when Harthouse asked her to join him,
she could not hear, but as he mounted and rode away she thought he said "To-night."

She waited in the rain, rejoicing, till her patience was at length rewarded by seeing Louisa,
cloaked and veiled as if for a journey, come from the house and go toward the railroad station.
Then Mrs. Sparsit, drawing her draggled shawl over her head to hide her face, followed, boarded
the same train, and hastened to tell the news of his wife's elopement to Bounderby in London.

Wet to the skin, her feet squashing in her shoes, her clothes spoiled and her bonnet looking
like an over-ripe fig, with a terrible cold that made her voice only a whisper, and sneezing
herself almost to pieces, Mrs. Sparsit found Bounderby at his city hotel, exploded with the
combustible information she carried and fainted quite away on his coat collar.

Furious at the news she brought, Bounderby hustled her into a fast train, and together, he
raging and glaring and she inwardly jubilant, they hurried toward Coketown to inform Mr. Gradgrind,
who was then at home, of his daughter's doings.

But where, meanwhile, was Louisa? Not run away with Harthouse, as Mrs. Sparsit so fondly imagined,
but safe in her own father's house in Coketown.

She had suffered much without complaint, but Harthouse's proposal had been the last straw.
Added to all the insults she had suffered at her husband's hands, and her fearful suspicion
of Tom's guilt, it had proven too much for her to bear. She had pretended to agree to Harthouse's
plan only that she might the more quickly rid herself of his presence.

Mr. Gradgrind, astonished at her sudden arrival at Stone Lodge, was shocked no less at her
ghastly appearance than by what she said. She told him she cursed the hour when she had been
born to grow up a victim to his teachings; that her whole life had been empty; that every hope,
affection and fancy had been crushed from her very infancy and her better angel made a demon.
She told him the whole truth about her marriage to Bounderby--that she had married him solely
for the advancement of Tom, the only one she had ever loved--and that now she could no longer
live with her husband or bear the life she had made for herself.

And when she had said this, Louisa, the daughter his "system" had brought to such despair,
fell at his feet.

At her pitiful tale the tender heart that Mr. Gradgrind had buried in his long-past youth under
his mountain of facts stirred again and began to beat. The mountain crumbled away, and he saw
in an instant, as by a lightning flash, that the plan of life to which he had so rigidly held
was a complete and hideous failure. He had thought there was but one wisdom, that of the head;
he knew at last that there was a deeper wisdom of the heart also, which all these years he
had denied!

When she came to herself, Louisa found her father sitting by her bedside. His face looked worn
and older. He told her he realized at last his life mistake and bitterly reproached himself.
Sissy, too, was there, her love shining like a beautiful light on the other's darkness. She
knelt beside the bed and laid the weary head on her breast, and then for the first time Louisa
burst into sobs.

Next day Sissy sought out Harthouse, who was waiting, full of sulky impatience at the failure
of Louisa to appear as he had expected. Sissy told him plainly what had occurred, and that
he should never see Louisa again. Harthouse, realizing that his plan had failed, suddenly discovered
that he had a great liking for camels, and left the same hour for Egypt, never to return to
Coketown.

It was while Sissy was absent on this errand of her own that the furious Bounderby and the
triumphant Mrs. Sparsit, the latter voiceless and still sneezing, appeared at Stone Lodge.

Mr. Gradgrind took the mill owner greatly aback with the statement that Louisa had had no intention
whatever of eloping and was then in that same house and under his care. Angry and blustering
at being made such a fool of, Bounderby turned on Mrs. Sparsit, but in her disappointment at
finding it a mistake, she had dissolved in tears. When Mr. Gradgrind told him he had concluded
it would be better for Louisa to remain for some time there with him, Bounderby flew into a
still greater rage and stamped off, swearing his wife should come home by noon next day or
not at all.

To be sure Louisa did not go, and next day Bounderby sent her clothes to Mr. Gradgrind, advertised
his country house for sale, and, needing something to take his spite out upon, redoubled his
efforts to find the robber of the bank.

And he began by covering the town with printed placards, offering a large regard for the arrest
of Stephen Blackpool.

IV

STEPHEN'S RETURN

Rachel had known, of course, of the rumors against Stephen, and had been both indignant and
sorrowful. She alone knew where he was, and how to find him, for deeming it impossible, because
of his trouble with the Coketown workmen, to get work under his own name, he had taken another.

Now that he was directly charged with the crime, she wrote him the news at once, so that he
might lose no time in returning to face the unjust accusation. Being so certain herself of
his innocence, she made no secret of what she had done, and all Coketown waited, wondering
whether he would appear or not.

Two days passed and he had not come, and then Rachel told Bounderby the address to which she
had written him. Messengers were sent, who came back with the report that Stephen had received
her letter and had left at once, saying he was going to Coketown, where he should long since
have arrived.

Another day with no Stephen, and now almost every one believed he was guilty, had taken Rachel's
letter as a warning and had fled. All the while Tom waited nervously, biting his nails and
with fevered lips, knowing that Stephen, when he came, would tell the real reason why he had
loitered near the bank, and so point suspicion to himself.

On the third day Mrs. Sparsit saw a chance to distinguish herself. She recognized on the street
"Mrs. Pegler," the old countrywoman who also had been suspected. She seized her and, regardless
of her entreaties, dragged her to Bounderby's house and into his dining-room, with a curious
crowd flocking at their heels.

She plumed herself on catching one of the robbers, but what was her astonishment when the old
woman called Bounderby her dear son, pleading that her coming to his house was not her fault
and begging him not to be angry even if people did know at last that she was his mother.

Mr. Gradgrind, who was present when they entered, having always heard Bounderby tell such dreadful
tales of his bringing-up, reproached her for deserting her boy in his infancy to a drunken
grandmother. At this the old woman nearly burst with indignation, calling on Bounderby himself
to tell how false this was and how she had pinched and denied herself for him till he had begun
to be successful.

Everybody laughed at this, for now the true story of the bullying mill owner's tales was out.
Bounderby, who had turned very red, was the only one who did not seem to enjoy the scene. After
he had wrathfully shut every one else from the house, he vented his anger on Mrs. Sparsit for
meddling (as he called it) with his own family affairs. He ended by giving her the wages due
her and inviting her to take herself off at once.

So Mrs. Sparsit, for all her cap-setting and spying, had to leave her comfortable nest and
go to live in a poor lodging as companion to the most grudging, peevish, tormenting one of
her noble relatives, an invalid with a lame leg.

But meanwhile another day had passed--the fourth since Rachel had sent her letter--and still
Stephen had not come. On this day, full of her trouble, Rachel had wandered with Sissy, now
her fast friend, some distance out of the town, through some fields where mining had once been
carried on.

Suddenly she cried out--she had picked up a hat and inside it was the name "Stephen Blackpool."
An instant later a scream broke from her lips that echoed over the country-side. Before them,
at their very feet, half-hidden by rubbish and grasses, yawned the ragged mouth of a dark,
abandoned shaft. That instant both Rachel and Sissy guessed the truth--that Stephen, returning,
had not seen the chasm in the darkness, and had fallen into its depths.

They ran and roused the town. Crowds came from Coketown. Rope and windlass were brought and
two men were lowered into the pit. The poor fellow was there, alive but terribly injured. A
rough bed was made, and so at last the crushed and broken form was brought up to the light and air.

A surgeon was at hand with wine and medicines, but it was too late. Stephen spoke with Rachel
first, then called Mr. Gradgrind to him and asked him to clear the blemish from his name. He
told him simply that he could do so through his son Tom. This was all. He died while they bore
him home, holding the hand of Rachel, whom he loved.

Stephen's last words had told the truth to Mr. Gradgrind. He read in them that his own son
was the robber. Tom's guilty glance had seen also. With suspicion removed from Stephen, he
felt his own final arrest sure.

Sissy noted Tom's pale face and trembling limbs. Guessing that he would attempt flight too
late, and longing to save the heartbroken father from the shame of seeing his son's arrest
and imprisonment, she drew the shaking thief aside and in a whisper bade him go at once to
Sleary, the proprietor of the circus to which her father had once belonged. She told him where
the circus was to be found at that season of the year, and bade him ask Sleary to hide him
for her sake till she came. Tom obeyed. He disappeared that night, and later Sissy told his
father what she had done.

Mr. Gradgrind, with Sissy and Louisa, followed as soon as possible, intending to get his son
to the nearest seaport and so out of the country on a vessel, for he knew that soon he himself,
Tom's father, would be questioned and obliged to tell the truth. They traveled all night, and
at length reached the town where the circus showed.

Sleary, for Sissy's sake, had provided Tom with a disguise in which not even his father recognized
him. He had blacked his sullen face and dressed him in a moth-eaten greatcoat and a mad cocked
hat, in which attire he played the rôle of a black servant in the performance. Tom met them,
grimy and defiant, ashamed to meet Louisa's eyes, brazen to his father, anxious only to be
saved from his deserved punishment.

A seaport was but three hours away. He was soon dressed and plans for his departure were completed.
But at the last moment danger appeared. It came in the person of the porter of Bounderby's
bank, who had all along suspected Tom. He had watched the Gradgrind house, followed its master
when he left and now laid hands on Tom, vowing he would take him back to Coketown.

In this moment of the father's despair, Sleary the showman saved the day for the shivering
thief. He agreed with the porter that as Tom was guilty of a crime he must certainly go with
him, and he offered, moreover, to drive the captor and his prisoner at once to the nearest
railroad station. He winked at Sissy as he proposed this, and she was not alarmed. The porter
accepted the proposal at once, but he did not guess what the showman had in mind.

Sleary's horse was an educated horse. At a certain word from its owner it would stop and begin
to dance, and would not budge from the spot till he gave the command in a particular way. He
had an educated dog, also, that would do anything it was told. With this horse hitched to the
carriage and this dog trotting innocently behind, the showman set off with the porter and Tom,
while Mr. Gradgrind and Louisa, whom Sissy had told to trust in Sleary, waited all night for
his return.

It was morning before Sleary came back, with the news that Tom was undoubtedly safe from pursuit,
if not already aboard ship. He told them how, at the word from him, the educated horse had
begun to dance; how Tom had slipped down and got away, while the educated dog, at his command,
had penned the frightened porter in the carriage all night, fearing to stir.

Thus Tom, who did not deserve any such good luck, got safely away, but though his father was
spared the shame of ever seeing his son behind the bars of a jail, yet he was a broken man
ever after the truth became known.

What was the fate of all these? Bounderby, a bully to the last, died of a fit five years afterward,
leaving his entire fortune to the perpetual support of twenty-five humbugs, each of whom was
required to take the name of "Josiah Bounderby of Coketown." Louisa never remarried, but lived
to be the comfort of her father and the loving comrade of Sissy Jupe. Sissy never found her
father, and when at last Merrylegs, his wonderful dog, came back alone to die of old age at
Sleary's feet, all knew that his master must be dead. Tom died, softened and penitent, in a
foreign land. Rachel remained the same pensive little worker, always dressed in black, beloved
by all and helping every one, even Stephen's besotted wife.

As for Mr. Gradgrind, a white-haired, decrepit old man, he forgot all the facts on which he
had so depended, and tried for ever after to mingle his life's acts with Faith, Hope and Charity.

THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD

Published 1870

Scene: London and Cloisterham, a Neighboring Town

Time: About 1865

CHARACTERS

    Edwin Drood                                   A young engineer

    John Jasper             His uncle and guardian. A choir master

    Rosa Bud                An orphan girl, engaged to marry Drood
                           Known as "Rosebud"

    Mr. Grewgious                           A lawyer. Her guardian

    Miss Twinkleton             The principal of the Young Ladies'
                                        Seminary in Cloisterham

    The Reverend Mr. Crisparkle  A minister             A minister

    Neville Landless                        Mr. Crisparkle's pupil

    Helena                                         His twin sister
                 Rosebud's room-mate in the seminary

    Luke Honeythunder           A self-styled "philanthropist" and
                           bore. Guardian of Neville and Helena

    Lieutenant Tartar                      A retired naval officer

    "Dick Datchery"                                    A detective

    Durdles               A stone-mason and chiseler of tombstones

    "The Deputy"                                     A street Arab

THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD

I

JOHN JASPER

In the quiet town of Cloisterham, in England, in a boarding-school, once lived a beautiful
girl named Rosa Bud--an amiable, wilful, winning, whimsical little creature whom every one
called Rosebud. She was an orphan. Her mother had been drowned when she was only seven years
old and her father had died of grief on the first anniversary of that day.

Her father's friend and college mate, a Mr. Drood, had comforted his last hours, and they had
agreed between them that when Rosebud was old enough she should marry Mr. Drood's son Edwin,
then a little boy. Her father put this wish in his will, as did Mr. Drood, who died also soon
after his friend, and so Rosebud and Edwin Drood grew up knowing that, though not bound in
any way, each was intended for the other. So it came about that, while if they had been let
alone they might have fallen in love naturally, yet as it was they were always shy and ill
at ease with one another. Yet they liked each other, too.

Rosebud's guardian was a Mr. Grewgious, an arid, sandy man who looked as if he might be put
in a grinding-mill and turned out first-class snuff. He had scanty hair like a yellow fur tippet,
and deep notches in his forehead, and was very near-sighted. He seemed to have been born old,
so that when he came to London to call on Rosebud amid all the school-girls he used to say
he felt like a bear with the cramp. Grewgious, however, under his oddity had a very tender
heart, particularly for Rosebud, whose mother he had been secretly in love with before she
married. But he had grown up a dry old bachelor, living in gloomy rooms in London, and no one
would have guessed him ever to have been a bit romantic.

The school Rosebud attended was called Nun's House. Miss Twinkleton, the prim old maid who
managed it, termed it a "Seminary for Young Ladies." It had a worn front, with a shining brass
door-plate that made it look at a distance like a battered old beau with a big new eye-glass
stuck in his blind eye. Here Rosebud lived a happy life, the pet of the whole seminary, till
she was a young lady.

Cloisterham was a dull, gray town with an ancient cathedral, which was so cold and dark and
damp that looking into its door was like looking down the throat of old Father Time. The cathedral
had a fine choir, which sang at all the services and was taught and led by a music-master whose
name was John Jasper. This Jasper, as it happened, was the uncle and guardian of Edwin Drood.

Drood, who was studying to be an engineer, was very fond of his uncle and came often to Cloisterham
to visit him, so that Rosebud saw a great deal of her intended husband. He always called her
"Pussy." He used to call on her at the school and take her walking and buy her candy at a Turkish
shop, called "Lumps of Delight," and did his best to get on well with her, though he felt awkward.

Drood and Jasper were much more like two friends than like uncle and nephew, for the choir
master was very little older than the other.

Jasper seemed to be wonderfully fond of Drood, and every one who knew him thought him a most
honorable and upright man; but in reality he was far different. At heart he hated the cathedral
and the singing, and wished often that he could find relief, like some old monk, in carving
demons out of the desks and seats. He had a soul that was without fear or conscience.

One vile and wicked practice he had which he had hidden from all who knew him. He was an opium
smoker. He would steal away to London to a garret kept by a mumbling old woman who knew the
secret of mixing the drug, and there, stretched on a dirty pallet, sometimes with a drunken
Chinaman or a Lascar beside him, would smoke pipe after pipe of the dreadful mixture that stole
away his senses and left him worse than before. Hours later he would awake, give the woman
money and hurry back to Cloisterham just in time, perhaps, to put on his church robes and lead
the cathedral choir.

Though no one knew of this, and though Edwin Drood thought his uncle was well-nigh perfect,
Rosebud, after she grew up, had no liking for Jasper. He gave her music lessons and every time
they met he terrified her. She felt sometimes that he haunted her thoughts like a dreadful
ghost. He seemed almost to make a slave of her with his looks, and she felt that in every glance
he was telling her that he, Jasper, loved her and yet compelled her to keep silence. But, though
disliking the choir master so, and shivering whenever he came near her, Rosebud did not know
how to tell Edwin, who she knew loved and believed in Jasper, of her feelings.

II

THE COMING OF NEVILLE LANDLESS

One of the ministers in charge of the cathedral was the Reverend Mr. Crisparkle, a ruddy, young,
active, honest fellow, who was perpetually practising boxing before the looking-glass or pitching
himself head-foremost into all the streams about the town for a swim, even when it was winter
and he had to break the ice with his head.

Mr. Crisparkle sometimes took young men into his home to live while he tutored them to prepare
them for college. One day he received word from a Mr. Luke Honeythunder in London, telling
him he was about to bring to Cloisterham a twin brother and sister, Neville and Helena Landless,
the young man to be taught by Mr. Crisparkle and his sister Helena to be put in Miss Twinkleton's
seminary.

This Luke Honeythunder called himself a philanthropist, but he was a queer sort of one, indeed.
He was always getting up public meetings and talking loudly, insisting on everybody's thinking
exactly as he did, and saying dreadful things of them if they did not.

Helena and Neville Landless had been born in Ceylon, where as little children they had been
cruelly treated by their stepfather. But they had brave spirits, and four times in six years
they had run away, only to be brought back each time and punished. On each of these occasions
(the first had been when they were but seven years old) Helena had dressed as a boy and once
had even tried to cut off her long hair with Neville's pocket-knife. At length their cruel
stepfather died, and they were sent to England, where for no other reason than that his name
was continually appearing in the newspapers, Mr. Honeythunder had been appointed their guardian.

No wonder the brother and sister had grown up thinking everybody was their enemy. They were
quite prepared to hate Mr. Crisparkle when their guardian brought them. But by the time Mr.
Honeythunder had gone (and Mr. Crisparkle was as glad as they were when he went home) they
liked the young minister and felt that they would be happy there. They were a handsome pair,
and Mr. Crisparkle was attracted to them both. Neville was lithe, and dark and rich in color;
Helena was almost like a gypsy, slender, supple and quick. Both seemed half shy, half defiant,
as though their blood were untamed.

To make them welcome that first evening, Mr. Crisparkle invited to his house Jasper, the choir
master, with Edwin Drood, who was visiting him, and Rosebud from the seminary. Before they
parted Rosebud was asked to sing.

Jasper played her accompaniment, and while she sang he watched her lips intently. All at once,
to their great astonishment, Rosebud covered her face with her hands and, crying out, "I can't
bear this! I am frightened! Take me away!" burst into tears.

Helena, the new-comer, who had liked Rosebud at first sight, seemed to understand her better
than any one else. She laid her on a sofa, soothed her, and in a few moments Rosebud seemed
again as usual. Mr. Crisparkle and Edwin Drood thought it only a fit of nervousness. To her
relief, they made light of the matter, and so the evening ended.

But later, at Nun's House, where she and Helena were to be room-mates, Rosebud told her new
friend how much she disliked Jasper and how his eyes terrified her, and how, as she sang, with
his eyes watching her lips, she felt as if he had kissed her.

While the two girls were talking of this, Neville and Edwin Drood, who had gone with them as
far as the door of the seminary, were walking back together. Mr. Crisparkle had told Neville
of Drood's betrothal to Rosebud, and Neville now spoke of it. Drood, who had felt all along
that he and Rosebud did not get along well together and who was sensitive on the subject, was
unjustly angry that the other should so soon know what he considered his own private affair.
He answered in a surly way and, as both were quick-tempered, they soon came to high words.

As it happened, Jasper was walking near, and, overhearing, came between them. He reproved them
good-naturedly and took them to his rooms, where he insisted they should drink a glass of wine
with him to their good fellowship. There he did a dastardly thing. He mixed with the wine a
drug which, once drunk, aroused their angry passions. Their speech grew thick and the quarrel
began again. Safe now from any spectator, Jasper did not attempt to soothe them. He let them
go on until they were about to come to blows. Then, pretending the greatest indignation, he
threw himself upon Neville and forced him, hatless, from the house.

In the cool night air Neville's strange dizziness, and with it his rage, cleared away. He realized
that the blame for the quarrel had been Jasper's, but he did not guess the drugging of the
wine and could not explain the incident even to himself. He went, however, manfully and sorrowfully
to Mr. Crisparkle and told him what had occurred, and naturally Mr. Crisparkle, who had never
found Edwin Drood quarrelsome, thought it the fault of Neville's hot blood and revengeful character.

He was the more certain of this when Jasper came to him, bringing Neville's hat, and told him
his own story of the meeting. Jasper told him falsely that Neville had made a murderous attack
on Drood, and but for him would have laid his nephew dead at his feet. He warned the minister
that Neville had a tigerish nature and would yet be guilty of terrible crime. Mr. Crisparkle
liked Neville, and all this saddened him, for he had not the least suspicion that Jasper was
lying for a cruel purpose of his own.

The affair was an unhappy one for Neville. Jasper took care that the story spread abroad, and
as it went it grew, so that almost everybody in Cloisterham came to consider Helena's brother
a sullen fellow of a furious temper. And they believed it the more because Neville made no
secret of the fact that he had fallen in love, too, with Rosebud, and in this they thought
they saw a reason for his hating Edwin Drood.

Mr. Crisparkle was a faithful friend. He concluded soon that the fault was not all on Neville's
side. But he was anxious to have the two young men friends, and he begged his pupil for his
own part to lay aside the ill feeling. He went to the choir master also on the same errand,
and Jasper assured him that his nephew would do the same. He even promised, hypocritically,
that to bring this about he would invite both Edwin Drood and Neville to dine with him on Christmas
Eve, in his own rooms, where they might meet and shake hands.

Both young men promised to come to the dinner, and Mr. Crisparkle was highly pleased, little
dreaming what the outcome would be.

III

THE CHOIR MASTER'S DINNER

There was a quaint character in Cloisterham named Durdles. He was a stone-mason whose specialty
was the chiseling of tombstones. He was an old bachelor and was both a very skilful workman
and a very great sot. He had keys to all the cathedral vaults and was fond of prowling about
the old pile and its dismal crypt, for ever tap-tapping, with a little hammer he carried, on
its stones and walls, hunting for forgotten cavities, in which, perhaps, centuries before,
persons had been buried. He wore a coarse flannel suit with horn buttons and a yellow handkerchief
with draggled ends, and it was a daily sight to see him perched on a tombstone eating his dinner
out of a bundle. When he was not feeling well he used to say he had a touch of "tomb-atism,"
instead of rheumatism.

Durdles was drunk so much that he was never certain about getting home at night, so he had
hired, at a penny a day, a hideous small boy, known as "The Deputy" to throw stones at him
whenever he found him out of doors after ten o'clock, and drive him home to his little hole
of an unfurnished stone house.

The Deputy used to watch for Durdles after this hour, and when he saw him he would dance up
and sing:

    "Widdy, widdy, wen!

It was a part of the bargain that he must give this warning before he began to throw the stones,
and when Durdles heard this yell he knew what was coming.

Before the Christmas Eve dinner Jasper picked a friendship with Durdles, and, pretending he
wanted to make a trip by moonlight with him among the vaults, he persuaded him one night to
be his guide. While they were in the crypt of the cathedral Jasper plied him with liquor which
he had brought, to such purpose that Durdles went fast asleep and the key of the crypt fell
from his hand. He had a dim idea that Jasper picked up the key and went away with it, and was
a long time gone, but when he awoke he could not tell whether this had really happened or not.
And this, when The Deputy stoned him home that night, was all he could remember of the expedition.

But what Jasper had really done while Durdles was asleep--whether he had taken away the key
to make a copy of it so as to make one like it for some evil purpose of his own, or whether
he wanted to be able to unlock that dark underground place and hide something in it sometime
when no one would be with him--this only Jasper himself knew!

The Christmas season arrived, and Edwin Drood, according to his promise, came to Cloisterham
to his uncle's dinner, at which he was to meet Neville.

Before leaving, however, he called upon Mr. Grewgious, Rosebud's guardian, who had sent for
him with a particular purpose. This purpose was to give into his hands a ring set with diamonds
and rubies that had belonged to Rosebud's mother. It had been left in trust to Mr. Grewgious
to give to the man who married her, that he might himself put it on her finger. And in accordance
with the trust, the lawyer charged Drood if anything should be amiss or if anything happened
between him and Rosebud, to bring back the ring.

Mr. Grewgious gave him this keepsake with such wise and friendly advice on the seriousness
of marriage that all the way to Cloisterham with the ring in his pocket, Edwin Drood was very
thoughtful. He asked himself whether he really loved Rosebud as a man should love his wife,
whether he had not drifted into this betrothal rather as a result of their parents' wish and
wills than from any deeper feeling. And he began to wonder if by marrying her thus he would
not be doing her a vast injustice. He decided, therefore, to tell her all that was in his mind
and be guided by her judgment.

Rosebud, meanwhile, in the silence of the Christmas vacation, with only Helena for her companion,
had been thinking of the same matter, and her wise little head had reached almost the same
conclusion. When Drood came they walked out together under the trees by the cathedral. Their
talk was not so difficult after all as each had feared it would be, and both felt relieved
when they decided they could be far happier to remain as brother and sister, and not become
husband and wife. So they agreed without pain on either side.

Drood's only anxiety was for his uncle. He thought Jasper had looked forward to his marriage
to Rosebud so long that he would be pained and disappointed to learn it was not to be. So he
concluded he would not tell him as yet. Poor Rosebud! She was greatly agitated. She felt the
falseness of Jasper, and knew that he loved her himself, but she realized the impossibility
of telling this to the nephew who believed in him. So she was silent. Drood, for his part,
since the betrothal was ended, said nothing to her of the ring Grewgious had given to him,
intending to return it to the lawyer.

They kissed each other when they parted. The wicked choir master, who happened to be walking
near, saw the embrace and thought it the kiss of lovers soon to be wed. Drood left Rosebud
then, to pass the time till the hour of the dinner in Jasper's rooms.

Neville that day had determined, the dinner over, to start at dawn next morning on a walking
tour, to be absent a fortnight. He bought a knapsack and a heavy steel-shod stick in preparation
for this expedition, and bade his sister Helena and Mr. Crisparkle good-by before he went to
the appointed meeting at the choir master's.

Jasper himself, it was noticed, had never seemed in better spirits than on that day, nor had
he ever sung more sweetly than in the afternoon service before the dinner which he gave to
the two young men. If he was contemplating a terrible crime, no one would have guessed it from
his serene face and his agreeable manner.

Edwin Drood had one warning just before he went up the postern stair that led to his Uncle
Jasper's. The old hag who mixed the opium in the London garret where the choir master smoked
the drug, had more than once tried to find out who her strange, gentlemanly visitor was. She
had listened to his mutterings in his drunken slumber, and at length that day had followed
him from London to Cloisterham, only to lose track of him there. As Drood strolled, waiting
for the dinner hour to strike from the cathedral chimes, he passed her and she begged money
from him.

He gave it to her and she asked him his name and whether he had a sweetheart. He answered Edwin,
and that he had none. "Be thankful your name's not Ned," she said, "for it's a bad name and
a threatened name!"

"Ned" was the name Jasper always called him by, but Drood did not think seriously of the old
woman's words. He could not have guessed that the threats she spoke of against the Ned who
had a sweetheart had been murmured in his drugged slumber by his own uncle against himself.
And yet something at just that moment made him shudder.

So the chimes struck, and Edwin Drood went on to Jasper's rooms to meet his uncle and Neville
Landless--went to his doom! For from that time no one who loved him ever saw him again in this
world!

IV

JASPER SHOWS HIS TEETH

That night a fearful tempest howled over Cloisterham. In the morning early, as the storm was
breaking, Jasper, the choir master, came pale, panting and half-dressed, to Mr. Crisparkle's,
asking for Edwin Drood. He said his nephew had left his rooms the evening before with Neville
Landless to go to the river to look at the storm, and had not returned.

Strange rumors sprang up at once. Neville had left for his walking tour and an ugly suspicion
flew from house to house. He had got only a few miles from the town when he was overtaken by
a party of men, who surrounded him. Thinking at first that they were thieves, he fought them,
but was soon rendered helpless and bleeding, and in the midst of them was taken back toward
Cloisterham. Mr. Crisparkle and Jasper met them on the way, and from the former Neville first
learned of what he was suspected.

The blood from his encounter with his captors was on his clothes and stick. Jasper pointed
it out, and even those who had seen it fall there looked darkly at the stains. He was taken
back to the town and to Mr. Crisparkle's house, who promised that he should remain in his own
custody.

Neville's story was simple. He said they had gone to the river, as Jasper had said, and returned
together, he to Mr. Crisparkle's, Edwin Drood to his uncle's. He had not seen the other since
that time.

The river was dragged and its banks searched, but to no purpose, till Mr. Crisparkle himself
found Drood's watch caught among some timbers in a weir.

But as the body could not be found, it could not be definitely proven that Drood was dead,
or that any murder had been committed, so at last Neville was released. The whole neighborhood,
however, believed him guilty of the murder. No one spoke to him and he was obliged to quit
the place.

Beside his sister Helena and Rosebud, who, of course, believed in his innocence, he had but
one friend there--Mr. Crisparkle. The latter stoutly refused to believe him guilty. When Neville
left for London, through Mr. Grewgious, Rosebud's guardian, the minister found him a cheap
lodging and made frequent trips to the city to help and advise him in his studies.

Mr. Grewgious had his own opinion of the affair. One day he went to Cloisterham to see Jasper,
and there told him a thing the other did not yet know--that before that last night Edwin Drood
and Rosebud had agreed not to marry. When he heard this the choir master's face turned the
color of lead. He shrieked and fell senseless at the lawyer's feet. Mr. Grewgious went back
to the city more thoughtful than ever, and it was not long before a detective came from London
to Cloisterham and began to interest himself in all the doings of John Jasper.

The detective, to be sure, was not known as such. He called himself "Dick Datchery" and gave
it out that he was an idle dog who lived on his money and had nothing to do. He was a curious-looking
man, with a great shock of white hair, black eyebrows and a military air. He rented lodgings
next door to the choir master, and before long had made friends with Durdles, the tombstone
maker, and even with The Deputy of the "wake-cock warning."

Meanwhile Jasper, haggard and red-eyed, took again his place in the cathedral choir, while
Neville Landless worked sadly and alone in his London garret. The latter made but one friend
in this time--a lodger whose window adjoined his own. This lodger was Lieutenant Tartar, a
retired young naval officer. Tartar might have lived in fine apartments, for he was rich, but
he had been so long on shipboard that he felt more at home where the walls were low enough
for him to knock his head on the ceiling. He used to climb across to Neville's room by the
window ledges, and they became friendly--the warmer friends when Mr. Crisparkle discovered
in the lieutenant a schoolmate who had once saved his life.

Later, too, Helena left Miss Twinkleton's Seminary and came to be with her brother. And so
a year went by.

Vacation arrived, and one day when Rosebud was alone at Nun's House, Jasper, for the first
time since Edwin Drood's disappearance, came to see her.

He found her in the garden, and she felt again the repulsion and fear she had always felt at
sight of him. This time the choir master threw away all concealment. He told her that he had
always loved her hopelessly and madly, though while she was betrothed to his nephew he had
hidden the fact. She answered indignantly that, by look if not by word, he had always been
false to Edwin Drood; that he had made her life unhappy by his pursuit of her, and that, though
she had shrunk from opening his nephew's eyes, she had always known he was a wicked man.

Then, maddened by her dislike, Jasper swore that no one else should ever marry her--that he
would pursue her to the death, and that if she repulsed him he would bring dreadful ruin upon
Neville Landless. He said this, no doubt, knowing that Neville loved Rosebud, and thinking,
perhaps, that she loved him in return.

When Jasper left her, Rosebud was faint from fear of his wicked eyes. She made up her mind
to go at once for protection to Mr. Grewgious in London, and, leaving a note for Miss Twinkleton,
she left by the next omnibus.

She told her guardian her story, he told it to Mr. Crisparkle, who came to London next morning,
and between them they told Lieutenant Tartar. While Rosebud visited with Helena the three men
took counsel together, agreeing that Jasper was a villain and planning how best to deal with him.

The next time the choir master visited the opium garret the old woman tracked him back to Cloisterham,
with more success--with such success, indeed, that she heard him sing in the cathedral and
found out his name from a stranger whom she encountered. This stranger was Dick Datchery, the
detective, who discovered so much, before he left her, of Jasper's London habits that he went
home in high good humor.

Datchery had a trick, whenever he was following a particular search, of marking each step of
his progress by a chalk mark on a wall or door. To-day he must have been highly pleased, for
he drew a thick line from the very top of the cupboard door to the bottom!

       *       *       *       *       *

When Charles Dickens, the master story-teller, had told this tale thus far, he fell ill and
died, and it was never finished. The mystery of the disappearance of Edwin Drood, what became
of Rosebud and of Mr. Crisparkle, how Neville and Helena fared and what was the end of Jasper,
are matters for each one of us to guess. Many have tried to finish this story and they have
ended it in various ways. Before Dickens died, however, he told to a friend the part of the
story that remained unwritten, and this, the friend has recorded, was to be as follows:

By means of the old woman of the opium den, Durdles, the tombstone maker, and The Deputy, the
ragged stone-thrower, Dick Datchery unraveled the threads which finally, made into a net, caught
Jasper, the murderer, in its meshes. Little by little, word by word, he was made at last to
betray himself.

He had killed Edwin Drood, had hidden his body in one of the vaults and covered it with lime.
But there had been one thing in the dead man's pocket which the lime could not destroy: this
was the ring set with diamonds and rubies, that had been given to him by Mr. Grewgious. By
this the murder was proven. Mr. Crisparkle and Mr. Grewgious worked hard to clear Neville Landless
(of whose guilt, by the way, Mr. Honeythunder remained always sure), but poor Neville himself
perished in aiding Lieutenant Tartar to seize the murderer.

Finding all hope of escape gone, Jasper confessed his crime in the cell in which he waited
for death.

But, after all, the story closed happily, with the marriage of Mr. Crisparkle to Neville's
sister Helena, and that of Lieutenant Tartar to pretty little Rosebud.

INDEX TO CHARACTERS

    AFFERY                             Little Dorrit

    AGNES                          David Copperfield

    ALLEN, ARABELLA                  Pickwick Papers

    ALLEN, BEN                       Pickwick Papers

    "ARTFUL DODGER, THE"                Oliver Twist

    BAGSTOCK, MAJOR                   Dombey and Son

    BANTAM, ANGELO CYRUS             Pickwick Papers

    BARDELL, MRS.                    Pickwick Papers

    BARKIS                         David Copperfield

    BARNABY RUDGE                      Barnaby Rudge

    BARNACLE, MR. TITE                 Little Dorrit

    BARSAD                        Tale of Two Cities

    BEVAN                          Martin Chuzzlewit

    BIDDY                         Great Expectations

    BLACKPOOL, STEPHEN                    Hard Times

    BLIMBER, DOCTOR                   Dombey and Son

    BOFFIN, MR.                    Our Mutual Friend

    BOFFIN, MRS.                   Our Mutual Friend

    BOUNDERBY, JOSIAH                     Hard Times

    BOYTHORN, MR.                        Bleak House

    BRASS                         Old Curiosity Shop

    BRASS, SALLY                  Old Curiosity Shop

    BRAY                           Nicholas Nickleby

    BRAY, MADELINE                 Nicholas Nickleby

    BROWNLOW, MR.                       Oliver Twist

    BUD, ROSA                            Edwin Drood

    BUDGER, MRS.                     Pickwick Papers

    BUMBLE, MR.                         Oliver Twist

    BUMBLE, MRS.                        Oliver Twist

    BUZFUZ, SERGEANT                 Pickwick Papers

    CARKER                            Dombey and Son

    CARSTONE, RICHARD                    Bleak House

    CARTON, SYDNEY                Tale of Two Cities

    CHEERYBLE BROTHERS, THE        Nicholas Nickleby

    CHESTER, EDWARD                    Barnaby Rudge

    CHESTER, SIR JOHN                  Barnaby Rudge

    CHIVERY, JOHN                      Little Dorrit

    CHUFFEY                        Martin Chuzzlewit

    CHUZZLEWIT                     Martin Chuzzlewit

    CHUZZLEWIT, MARTIN             Martin Chuzzlewit

    CLARE, ADA                           Bleak House

    CLENNAM, ARTHUR                    Little Dorrit

    CLENNAM, MR.                       Little Dorrit

    CLENNAM, MRS.                      Little Dorrit

    COMPEYSON                     Great Expectations

    COPPERFIELD, DAVID             David Copperfield

    CREAKLE, MR.                   David Copperfield

    CRISPARKLE, REVEREND MR.             Edwin Drood

    CRUMMLES, MRS.                 Nicholas Nickleby

    CRUMMLES, NINETTA              Nicholas Nickleby

    CRUMMLES, VINCENT              Nicholas Nickleby

    CUTTLE, CAPTAIN                   Dombey and Son

    DARNAY, CHARLES               Tale of Two Cities

    DATCHERY, DICK                       Edwin Drood

    DEDLOCK, LADY                        Bleak House

    DEDLOCK, SIR LEICESTER               Bleak House

    DEFARGE                       Tale of Two Cities

    DEFARGE, MADAME               Tale of Two Cities

    DENNIS                             Barnaby Rudge

    "DEPUTY, THE"                        Edwin Drood

    "DICK, MR."                    David Copperfield

    "DIOGENES"                        Dombey and Son

    "DODGER, THE ARTFUL"                Oliver Twist

    DOMBEY, FLORENCE                  Dombey and Son

    DOMBEY, MR.                       Dombey and Son

    DOMBEY, PAUL                      Dombey and Son

    DORRIT, AMY                        Little Dorrit

    DORRIT, FANNY                      Little Dorrit

    "DORRIT, LITTLE"                   Little Dorrit

    DORRIT, MR.                        Little Dorrit

    DORRIT, "TIP"                      Little Dorrit

    DOWLER, MR.                      Pickwick Papers

    DOWLER, MRS.                     Pickwick Papers

    DOYCE                              Little Dorrit

    DROOD, EDWIN                         Edwin Drood

    DURDLES                              Edwin Drood

    "EM'LY, LITTLE"                David Copperfield

    ESTELLA                       Great Expectations

    FAGIN                               Oliver Twist

    "FAT BOY, THE"                   Pickwick Papers

    "FATHER OF THE MARSHALSEA, THE"    Little Dorrit

    "FITZ-MARSHALL, MR."             Pickwick Papers

    "FITZ-MARSHALL, CAPTAIN"         Pickwick Papers

    FLINTWINCH                         Little Dorrit

    FLITE, MISS                          Bleak House

    "FLOY"                            Dombey and Son

    GABELLE                       Tale of Two Cities

    GAMP, "SAIREY"                 Martin Chuzzlewit

    GARGERY, JOE                  Great Expectations

    GARGERY, MRS.                 Great Expectations

    GASHFORD                           Barnaby Rudge

    GAY, WALTER                       Dombey and Son

    GENERAL, MRS.                      Little Dorrit

    "GEORGE, MR."                        Bleak House

    "GOLDEN DUSTMAN, THE"          Our Mutual Friend

    GORDON, LORD GEORGE                Barnaby Rudge

    GILLS, SOLOMON                    Dombey and Son

    GRADGRIND, LOUISA                     Hard Times

    GRADGRIND, MR.                        Hard Times

    GRADGRIND, MRS.                       Hard Times

    GRADGRIND, TOM                        Hard Times

    GRAHAM, MARY                   Martin Chuzzlewit

    GRANDFATHER SMALLWEED                Bleak House

    GRANGER, EDITH                    Dombey and Son

    GREWGIOUS, MR.                       Edwin Drood

    GRIDE                          Nicholas Nickleby

    "GRIP"                             Barnaby Rudge

    GUMMIDGE, MRS.                 David Copperfield

    HAM                            David Copperfield

    HAREDALE, EMMA                     Barnaby Rudge

    HAREDALE, GEOFFREY                 Barnaby Rudge

    HARMON, JOHN                   Our Mutual Friend

    HARMON, MR.                    Our Mutual Friend

    "HARRIS, MRS."                 Martin Chuzzlewit

    HARTHOUSE, JAMES                      Hard Times

    HAVISHAM, MISS                Great Expectations

    HAWDON, CAPTAIN                      Bleak House

    HAWK, SIR MULBERRY             Nicholas Nickleby

    HEADSTONE                      Our Mutual Friend

    HEEP, URIAH                    David Copperfield

    HEXAM                          Our Mutual Friend

    HEXAM, CHARLIE                 Our Mutual Friend

    HEXAM, LIZZIE                  Our Mutual Friend

    HONEYTHUNDER, LUKE                   Edwin Drood

    HORTENSE                             Bleak House

    "HUGH, MAYPOLE"                    Barnaby Rudge

    HUNTER, MRS. LEO                 Pickwick Papers

    "INFANT PHENOMENON, THE"       Nicholas Nickleby

    JAGGERS, MR.                  Great Expectations

    JARLEY, MRS.                  Old Curiosity Shop

    JARNDYCE, MR.                        Bleak House

    JASPER, JOHN                         Edwin Drood

    JELLYBY, CADDY                       Bleak House

    JELLYBY, MRS.                        Bleak House

    "JENNY WREN"                   Our Mutual Friend

    JINGLE, ALFRED                   Pickwick Papers

    JOE                              Pickwick Papers

    JOE                                  Bleak House

    "JOE, MRS."                   Great Expectations

    JONAS                          Martin Chuzzlewit

    JUPE, CECELIA                         Hard Times

    "JUPE, SIGNOR"                        Hard Times

    "KIT"                         Old Curiosity Shop

    KNAG, MISS                     Nicholas Nickleby

    KROOK                                Bleak House

    "LADY JANE"                          Bleak House

    LANDLESS, HELENA                     Edwin Drood

    LANDLESS, NEVILLE                    Edwin Drood

    "LITTLE EM'LY"                 David Copperfield

    "LITTLE NELL"                 Old Curiosity Shop

    "LITTLE PAUL"                     Dombey and Son

    LORRY, MR.                    Tale of Two Cities

    MAGGIE                             Little Dorrit

    MAGNUS, MR. PETER                Pickwick Papers

    MAGWITCH, ABEL                Great Expectations

    MANETTE, DOCTOR               Tale of Two Cities

    MANETTE, LUCIE                Tale of Two Cities

    MANTALINI, MR.                 Nicholas Nickleby

    MANTALINI, MADAME              Nicholas Nickleby

    MARY                             Pickwick Papers

    MAYLIE, MRS.                        Oliver Twist

    "MAYPOLE HUGH"                     Barnaby Rudge

    M'CHOAKUMCHILD, MR.                   Hard Times

    MEAGLES, MR.                       Little Dorrit

    MEAGLES, MRS.                      Little Dorrit

    MEAGLES, "PET"                     Little Dorrit

    MERDLE, MR.                        Little Dorrit

    MERDLE, MRS.                       Little Dorrit

    "MERRYLEGS"                           Hard Times

    MICAWBER, MR.                  David Copperfield

    MONKS                               Oliver Twist

    MONTAGUE, TIGG                 Martin Chuzzlewit

    MURDSTONE, MISS                David Copperfield

    MURDSTONE, MR.                 David Copperfield

    NADGETT                        Martin Chuzzlewit

    NANCY                               Oliver Twist

    "NELL, LITTLE"                Old Curiosity Shop

    "NEMO"                               Bleak House

    NICKLEBY, KATE                 Nicholas Nickleby

    NICKLEBY, MRS.                 Nicholas Nickleby

    NICKLEBY, NICHOLAS             Nicholas Nickleby

    NICKLEBY, RALPH                Nicholas Nickleby

    NOGGS                          Nicholas Nickleby

    NUBBLES, CHRISTOPHER          Old Curiosity Shop

    NUPKINS                          Pickwick Papers

    NUPKINS, MISS                    Pickwick Papers

    NUPKINS, MRS.                    Pickwick Papers

    "OLD SOL"                         Dombey and Son

    ORLICK                        Great Expectations

    PANCKS                             Little Dorrit

    "PAUL, LITTLE"                    Dombey and Son

    PECKSNIFF                      Martin Chuzzlewit

    PECKSNIFF, CHARITY             Martin Chuzzlewit

    PECKSNIFF, MERCY               Martin Chuzzlewit

    PEGGOTTY                       David Copperfield

    PEGGOTTY, MR.                  David Copperfield

    "PEGLER, MRS."                        Hard Times

    PICKWICK, MR. SAMUEL             Pickwick Papers

    PINCH, TOM                     Martin Chuzzlewit

    PINCH, RUTH                    Martin Chuzzlewit

    "PIP"                         Great Expectations

    PIPCHIN, MRS.                     Dombey and Son

    PIRRIP, PHILIP                Great Expectations

    POCKET, HERBERT               Great Expectations

    POCKET, MR.                   Great Expectations

    POCKET, MRS.                  Great Expectations

    PROSS, MISS                   Tale of Two Cities

    PUMBLECHOOK, UNCLE            Great Expectations

    QUILP                         Old Curiosity Shop

    QUILP, MRS.                   Old Curiosity Shop

    RACHEL                                Hard Times

    RIGAUD                             Little Dorrit

    RIDERHOOD, "ROGUE"             Our Mutual Friend

    "ROKESMITH," JOHN              Our Mutual Friend

    "ROSEBUD"                            Edwin Drood

    ROSE, MISS                          Oliver Twist

    ROUNCEWELL, MRS.                     Bleak House

    RUDGE                              Barnaby Rudge

    RUDGE, BARNABY                     Barnaby Rudge

    RUDGE, MRS.                        Barnaby Rudge

    ST. EVRÉMONDE, CHARLES        Tale of Two Cities

    ST. EVRÉMONDE, MARQUIS DE     Tale of Two Cities

    SAWYER, BOB                      Pickwick Papers

    SIKES, BILL                         Oliver Twist

    "SISSY"                               Hard Times

    SKIMPOLE, HAROLD                     Bleak House

    SLAMMER, DOCTOR                  Pickwick Papers

    SLEARY                                Hard Times

    SMALLWEED, GRANDFATHER               Bleak House

    SMALLWEED, MRS.                      Bleak House

    SMIKE                          Nicholas Nickleby

    SNODGRASS                        Pickwick Papers

    "SOL, OLD"                        Dombey and Son

    SPARSIT, MRS.                         Hard Times

    SPENLOW, DORA                  David Copperfield

    SQUEERS                        Nicholas Nickleby

    SQUEERS, FANNY                 Nicholas Nickleby

    SQUEERS, MRS.                  Nicholas Nickleby

    SQUEERS, WACKFORD              Nicholas Nickleby

    STEERFORTH, JAMES              David Copperfield

    "STRANGER, THE"               Old Curiosity Shop

    STRONG, DOCTOR                 David Copperfield

    SUMMERSON, ESTHER                    Bleak House

    SWIVELLER, DICK               Old Curiosity Shop

    TAPLEY, MARK                   Martin Chuzzlewit

    TAPPERTIT, SIMON                   Barnaby Rudge

    TARTAR, LIEUTENANT                   Edwin Drood

    "TATTYCORAM"                       Little Dorrit

    TIGG, MONTAGUE                 Martin Chuzzlewit

    TODGERS, MRS.                  Martin Chuzzlewit

    TRADDLES, TOMMY                David Copperfield

    TRENT, MR.                    Old Curiosity Shop

    TROTTER, JOB                     Pickwick Papers

    TROTWOOD, MISS BETSY           David Copperfield

    TULKINGHORN, MR.                     Bleak House

    TUPMAN                           Pickwick Papers

    TURVEYDROP, MR.                      Bleak House

    TURVEYDROP, PRINCE                   Bleak House

    TWINKLETON, MISS                     Edwin Drood

    TWIST, OLIVER                       Oliver Twist

    UNCLE PUMBLECHOOK             Great Expectations

    VARDEN                             Barnaby Rudge

    VARDEN, DOLLY                      Barnaby Rudge

    VENEERING, MR.                 Our Mutual Friend

    VENUS, MR.                     Our Mutual Friend

    VERISOPHT, LORD FREDERICK      Nicholas Nickleby

    VHOLES                               Bleak House

    WARDLE, EMILY                    Pickwick Papers

    WARDLE, MR.                      Pickwick Papers

    WARDLE, MISS                     Pickwick Papers

    WEGG, SILAS                    Our Mutual Friend

    WELLER, MRS.                     Pickwick Papers

    WELLER, SAM                      Pickwick Papers

    WELLER, TONY                     Pickwick Papers

    WEMMICK                       Great Expectations

    WESTLOCK, JOHN                 Martin Chuzzlewit

    WICKFIELD, AGNES               David Copperfield

    WICKFIELD, MR.                 David Copperfield

    WILFER, BELLA                  Our Mutual Friend

    WILFER, MR.                    Our Mutual Friend

    WILLET, JOE                        Barnaby Rudge

    WINKLE                           Pickwick Papers

    WITITTERLY, MRS.               Nicholas Nickleby

    WOODCOURT, ALLAN                     Bleak House

    WOPSLE                        Great Expectations

    WRAYBURN, EUGENE               Our Mutual Friend

    "WREN, JENNIE"                 Our Mutual Friend