Much more emphasis on the undertakings in the attempt to have children accept responsibility,
and to engage in a type of activity which has a definite moral social value, is to be found
in the schools in which children are responsible for the morning exercises, or for publishing
a school paper, or for preparing a school festival. One of the most notable achievements in
this type of activity which the writer has ever known occurred in a school in which a group
of seventh-grade children were thought to be particularly incompetent. The teachers had almost
despaired of having them show normal development, either intellectually or socially. After
a conference of all of the teachers who knew the members of this group, it was decided to allow
them to prepare a patriot's day festival. The idea among those teachers who had failed with
this group was that if the children had a large responsibility, they would show a correspondingly
significant development. The children responded to the motive which was provided, became earnest
students of history in order that they might find a dramatic situation, and worked at their
composition when they came to write their play, some of them exercising a critical as well
as a creative faculty which no one had known that they possessed. But possibly the best thing
about the whole situation was that every member of the class found something to do in their
coöperative enterprise. Some members of the class were engaged in building and in decorating
the stage scenery; others were responsible for costumes; those who were strong in music devoted
themselves to this field. The search for a proper dramatic situation in history and the writing
of the play have already been suggested. The staging of the play and its presentation to a
large group of parents and other interested patrons of the school required still further specialization
and ability. Out of it all came a realization of the possibility of accomplishing great things
when all worked together for the success of a common enterprise. When the festival day came,
the most common statement heard in the room on the part of the parents and others interested
in the work of the children was expressed by one who said: "This is the most wonderful group
of seventh-grade children that I have ever seen. They are as capable as most high school boys
and girls." It is to be recalled that this was the group in whom the teachers originally had
little faith, and who had sometimes been called in their school a group of misfits.

Some schools have found, especially in the upper grades, an opportunity for a type of social
activity which is entirely comparable with the demand made upon the older members of our communities.
This work for social improvement or betterment is carried on frequently in connection with
a course in civics. In some schools there is organized what is known as the junior police.
This organization has been in some cases coordinated with the police department. The boys who
belong pledge themselves to maintain, in so far as they are able, proper conditions on the
streets with respect to play, to abstain from the illegal use of tobacco or other narcotics,
and to be responsible for the correct handling of garbage, especially to see that paper, ashes,
and other refuse are placed in separate receptacles, and that these receptacles are removed
from the street promptly after they are emptied by the department concerned. In one city with
which the writer is acquainted, the children in the upper grades, according to the common testimony
of the citizens of their community, have been responsible for the cleaning up of the street
cars. In other cities they have become interested, and have interested their parents, in the
question of milk and water supply. In some cases they have studied many different departments
of the city government, and have, in so far as it was possible, lent their coöperation. In
one case a group of children became very much excited concerning a dead horse that was allowed
to remain on a street near the school, and they learned before they were through just whose
responsibility it was, and how to secure the action that should have been taken earlier.

Still another type of activity which may have significance for the moral social development
of children is found in the study of the life activities in the communities in which they live.
There is no reason why children, especially in the upper grades or in the high school, should
not think about working conditions, especially as they involve sweat-shops or work under unsanitary
conditions. They may very properly become interested in the problems of relief, and of the
measures taken to eliminate crime. Indeed, from the standpoint of the development of socially
efficient children, it would seem to be more important that some elementary treatment of industrial
and social conditions might be found to be more important in the upper grades and in the high
school than any single subject which we now teach.

Another attempt to develop a reasonable attitude concerning moral situations is found in the
schools which have organized pupils for the participation in school government. There is no
particular value to be attached to any such form of organization. It may be true that there
is considerable advantage in dramatizing the form of government in which the children live,
and for that purpose policemen, councilmen or aldermen, mayors, and other officials, together
with their election, may help in the understanding of the social obligations which they will
have to meet later on. But the main thing is to have these children come to accept responsibility
for each other, and to seek to make the school a place where each respects the rights of others
and where every one is working together for the common good. In this connection it is important
to suggest that schemes of self-government have succeeded only where there has been a leader
in the position of principal or other supervisory officer concerned. Children's judgments are
apt to be too severe when they are allowed to discipline members of their group. There will
always be need, whatever attempt we may make to have them accept responsibility, for the guidance
and direction of the more mature mind.

We seek in all of these activities, as has already been suggested, to have children come to
take, in so far as they are able, the rational attitude toward the problems of conduct which
they have to face. It is important for teachers to realize the fallacy of making a set of rules
by which all children are to be controlled. It is only with respect to those types of activity
in which the response, in order to further the good of the group, must be invariable that we
should expect to have pupils become automatic. It is important in the case of a fire drill,
or in the passing of materials, and the like, that the response, although it does involve social
obligation, should be reduced to the level of mechanized routine. Most school situations involve,
or may involve, judgment, and it is only as pupils grow in power of self-control and in their
willingness to think through a situation before acting, that we may expect significant moral
development. In the case of offenses which seem to demand punishment, that teacher is wise
who is able to place responsibility with the pupil who has offended. The question ought to
be common, "What can I do to help you?" The question which the teacher should ask herself is
not, "What can I do to punish the pupil?" but rather, "How can I have him realize the significance
of his action and place upon him the responsibility of reinstating himself with the social
group?" The high school principal who solved the problem of a teacher who said that she would
not teach unless a particular pupil were removed from her class, and of the pupil who said
that she would not stay in school if she had to go to that teacher, by telling them both to
take time to think it through and decide how they would reconcile their differences, is a case
in point. What we need is not the punishment which follows rapidly upon our feeling of resentment,
but rather the wisdom of waiting and accepting the mistake or offense of the pupil as an opportunity
for careful consideration upon his part and as a possible means of growth for him.

There has been considerable discussion during recent years concerning the obligation of the
school to teach children concerning matters of sex. Traditionally, our policy has been one
of almost entire neglect. The consequence has been, on the whole, the acquisition upon the
part of boys and girls of a large body of misinformation, which has for the most part been
vicious. It is not probable that we can ever expect most teachers to have the training necessary
to give adequate instruction in this field. For children in the upper grades, during the preadolescent
period especially, some such instruction given by the men and women trained in biology, or
possibly by men and women doctors who have made a specialty of this field, promises a large
contribution to the development of the right attitudes with respect to the sex life and the
elimination of much of the immorality which has been due to ignorance or to the vicious misinformation
which has commonly been spread among children. The policy of secrecy and ignorance cannot well
be maintained if we accept the idea of responsibility and the exercise of judgment as the basis
of moral social activity. In no other field are the results of a lack of training or a lack
of morality more certain to be disastrous both for the individual and for the social group.

QUESTIONS

1. How satisfactory is the morality of the man who claims that he does no wrong?

2. How is it possible for a child to be unmoral and not immoral?

3. Are children who observe school rules and regulations necessarily growing in morality?

4. Why is it important, from the standpoint of growth in morality, to have children form socially
desirable habits, even though we may not speak of this kind of activity as moral conduct?

5. What constitutes growth in morality for the adult?

6. In what sense is it possible for the same act to be immoral, unmoral, and moral for individuals
living under differing circumstances and in different social groups? Give an example.

7. Why have moral reformers sometimes been considered immoral by their associates?

8. What is the moral significance of earning a living? Of being prompt? Of being courteous?

9. What are the instincts upon which we may hope to build in moral training? What instinctive
basis is there for immoral conduct?

10. To what extent is intellectual activity involved in moral conduct? What is the significance
of one's emotional response?

11. What stages of development are distinguishable in the moral development of children? Is
it possible to classify children as belonging to one stage or the other by their ages?

12. Why is it true that one's character depends upon the deliberate choices which he makes
among several possible modes or types of action?

13. Why is it important to have positive satisfaction follow moral conduct?

14. How may the conduct of parents and teachers influence conduct of children?

15. What is the weakness of direct moral instruction, e.g. the telling of stories of truthfulness,
the teaching of moral precepts, and the like?

16. What opportunities can you provide in your class for moral social conduct?

17. Children will do what is right because of their desire to please, their respect for authority,
their fear of unpleasant consequences, their careful, thoughtful analysis of the situation
and choice of that form of action which they consider right. Arrange these motives in order
of their desirability. Would you be satisfied to utilize the motive which brings results most
quickly and most surely?

18. In what sense is it true that lapses from moral conduct are the teacher's best opportunity
for moral teaching?

19. How may children contribute to the social welfare of the school community? Of the larger
social group outside of the school?

20. How may pupil participation in school government be made significant in the development
of social moral conduct?

       *       *       *       *       *

XII. TRANSFER OF TRAINING

Formal discipline or transfer of training concerns itself with the question as to how far training
in one subject, along one line, influences other lines. How far, for instance, training in
reasoning in mathematics helps a child to reason in history, in morals, in household administration;
how far memorizing gems of poetry or dates in history aids memory when it is applied to learning
stenography or botany; how far giving attention to the gymnasium will insure attention to sermons
and one's social engagements. The question is, How far does the special training one gets in
home and school fit him to react to the environment of life with its new and complex situations?
Put in another way, the question is what effect upon other bonds does forming this particular
situation response series of bonds have. The practical import of the question and its answer
is tremendous. Most of our present school system, both in subject matter and method, is built
upon the assumption that one answer is correct--if it is false, much work remains to be done
by the present-day education.

The point of view which was held until recent years is best made clear by a series of quotations.

     "Since the mind is a unit and the faculties are simply phases
     or manifestations of its activity, whatever strengthens one
     faculty indirectly strengthens all the others. The verbal
     memory seems to be an exception to this statement, however,
     for it may be abnormally cultivated without involving to any
     profitable extent the other faculties. But only things that
     are rightly perceived and rightly understood can be rightly
     remembered. Hence whatever develops the acquisitive and
     assimilative powers will also strengthen memory; and,
     conversely, rightly strengthening the memory necessitates the
     developing and training of the other powers." (R.N. Roark,
     Method in Education, p. 27.)

     "It is as a means of training the faculties of perception and
     generalization that the study of such a language as Latin in
     comparison with English is so valuable." (C.L. Morgan,
     Psychology for Teachers, p. 186.)

     "Arithmetic, if judiciously taught, forms in the pupil habits
     of mental attention, argumentative sequence, absolute
     accuracy, and satisfaction in truth as a result, that do not
     seem to spring equally from the study of any other subject
     suitable to this elementary stage of instruction." (Joseph
     Payne, Lectures on Education, Vol. I, p. 260.)

     "By means of experimental and observational work in science,
     not only will his attention be excited, the power of
     observation, previously awakened, much strengthened, and the
     senses exercised and disciplined, but the very important habit
     of doing homage to the authority of facts rather than to the
     authority of men, be initiated." (Ibid., p. 261.)

The view maintained by these writers is that the mind is made up of certain elemental powers
such as attention, reasoning, observation, imagination, and the like, each of which acts as
a unit. Training any one of these powers means simply its exercise irrespective of the material
used. The facility gained through this exercise may then be transferred to other subjects or
situations, which are quite different. The present point of view with regard to this question
is very different, as is shown by the following quotations:

     "We may conclude, then, that there is something which may be
     called formal discipline, and that it may be more or less
     general in character. It consists in the establishment of
     habitual reactions that correspond to the form of situations.
     These reactions foster adjustments, attitudes, and ideas that
     favor the successful dealing with the emergencies that arouse
     them. On the other hand, both the form that we can learn to
     deal with more effectively, and the reactions that we
     associate with it, are definite. There is no general training
     of the powers or faculties, so far as we can determine."
     (Henderson, 10, p. 307 f.)

     "One mental function or activity improves others in so far as
     and because they are in part identical with it, because it
     contains elements common to them. Addition improves
     multiplication because multiplication is largely addition;
     knowledge of Latin gives increased ability to learn French
     because many of the facts learned in the one case are needed
     in the other. The study of geometry may lead a pupil to be
     more logical in all respects, for one element of being logical
     in all respects is to realize that facts can be absolutely
     proven and to admire and desire this certain and
     unquestionable sort of demonstration...." (Thorndike, '06, pp.
     243-245, passim.)

     "Mental discipline is the most important thing in education,
     but it is specific, not general. The ability developed by
     means of one subject can be transferred to another subject
     only in so far as the latter has elements in common with the
     former. Abilities should be developed in school only by means
     of those elements of subject-matter and of method that are
     common to the most valuable phases of the outside environment.
     In the high school there should also be an effort to work out
     general concepts of method from the specific methods used."
     (Heck, '09, Edition of '11, p. 198.)

     "... No study should have a place in the curriculum for which
     this general disciplinary characteristic is the chief
     recommendation. Such advantage can probably be gotten in some
     degree from every study, and the intrinsic values of each
     study afford at present a far safer criterion of educational
     work than any which we can derive from the theory of formal
     discipline." (Angell, '08, p. 14.)

These writers also believe in transfer of training, but they believe the transfer to be never
complete, to be in general a very small percentage of the special improvement gained and at
times to be negative and to interfere with responses in other fields instead of being a help.
They also emphasize the belief that when the transfer does occur, it is for some perfectly
valid reason and under certain very definite conditions. They reject utterly the machine-like
idea of the mind and its elemental faculties held by the writers first quoted. They hold the
view of mental activity which has been emphasized in the discussion of original tendencies
and inheritance from near ancestry, i.e., that the physical correlate of all types of mental
activity is a definite forming of connections between particular bonds-these connections, of
course, according to the laws of readiness exercise, and effect, would be determined by the
situation acting as a stimulus and would, therefore, vary as the total situation varied. They
believe in a highly specialized human brain, which reacts in small groups of nerve tracts--not
in gross wholes. They would express each of the "elemental" powers in the plural and not in
the singular.

The basis of this change of view within the last fifteen or twenty years is to be found in
experimental work. The question has definitely been put to the test as to how far training
in one line did influence others. For a full description of the various types of experiments
performed the reader is referred to Thorndike's "Psychology of Learning," Chapter 12. Only
an indication of the type of work done and the general character of the results can be given
here. Experiments in the effect of cross education, in memorizing, in observing and judging
sensory and perceptual data, and in forming sensori-motor association habits have been conducted
in considerable numbers. A few experiments in special school functions have also been carried
out. Investigations in the correlation between various parts of the same subject and between
different subjects supposed to be closely allied also throw light upon this subject. The results
from these different lines of experiment, although confusing and sometimes contradictory, seem
to warrant the belief stated above. They have made it very clear that the question of transfer
is not a simple one, but, on the contrary, that it is extremely complex. They make plain that
in some cases where large transfer was confidently expected, that little resulted, while, on
the other hand, in some cases when little was expected, much more occurred. It is evident that
the old idea of a large transfer in some subtle and unexplained way of special improvements
to a general faculty is false. But, on the other hand, it would be equally false to say that
no transfer occurred. The general principle seems to be that transfer occurs when the same
bonds are used in the second situation to the extent that the alteration in these particular
connections affects the second response. Both the knowledge of what bonds are used in various
responses and to what extent alteration in them will affect different total responses is lacking.
Therefore, all that is at present possible is a statement of conditions under which transfer
is probable.

