About a year before this, Congress had given Hiram Powers a commission to model a colossal
statue of America for the Capitol at Washington. This he had done, and the committee in charge
accepted his design,--Hawthorne also writes admiringly of it,--but it was also necessary to
receive the approval of the President, and this Buchanan with his peculiar obstinacy refused
to give. Powers was left without compensation for a whole year of arduous labor, and Hawthorne
for once was thoroughly indignant. He wrote in his diary:

"I wish our great Republic had the spirit to do as much, according to its vast means, as Florence
did for sculpture and architecture when it was a republic.... And yet the less we attempt to
do for art the better, if our future attempts are to have no better result than such brazen
troopers as the equestrian statue of General Jackson, or even such naked respectabilities as
Greeneough's Washington."

Perhaps Powers' "America" was a fortunate escape, and yet it does not seem right that any enlightened
government should set such a pitfall for honest men to stumble into. There certainly ought
to be some compensation in such cases. The experience of history hitherto has been that, whereas
painting and literature have nourished under all forms of government, sculpture has only attained
its highest excellence in republics like Athens, Rhodes, Florence, and Nuremberg; so that upon
this line of argument there is good hope for America in the future.

CHAPTER XV

HAWTHORNE AS ART CRITIC: 1858

Nearly one-third of the Italian Note-book is devoted to the criticisms or descriptions of paintings,
statues, and architecture, for which we can be only too thankful as coming from such a bright,
penetrating, and ingenious intelligence. It is much in their favor that Hawthorne had not previously
undertaken a course of instruction in art; that he wrote for his own benefit, and not for publication;
and that he was not biased by preconceived opinions. It cannot be doubted that he was sometimes
influenced by the opinions of Story, Powers, and other artists with whom he came in contact;
but this could have happened only in particular cases, and more especially in respect to modern
works of art. When Hawthorne visited the galleries he usually went alone, or only accompanied
by his wife.

The only opportunities for the study of aesthetics or art criticism, fifty years ago, were
to be found in German universities. Kugler's handbook of painting was the chief authority in
use, rather academic, but correct enough in a general way. Ruskin, a more eloquent and discriminating
writer, had devoted himself chiefly to celebrating the merits of Turner and Tintoretto, but
was never quite just to Florentine art. Mrs. Jameson followed closely after Kugler, and was
the only one of these that Hawthorne appears to have consulted. Winckelmann's history of Greek
sculpture, which was not a history in the proper sense of the word, had been translated by
Lodge, but Hawthorne does not mention it, and it would not have been much assistance to him
if he had read it. Like Winckelmann and Lessing, however, he admired the "Laocoon,"--an admiration
now somewhat out of fashion.

There can be no final authority in art, for the most experienced critics still continue to
differ in their estimates of the same painting or statue. More than this, it is safe to affirm
that any one writer who makes a statement concerning a certain work of art at a given time,
would have made a somewhat different statement at another time. In fact, this not unfrequently
happens in actual practice; for all that any of us can do is, to reproduce the impression made
on us at the moment, and this depends as much on our own state of mind, and on our peculiarities,
as on the peculiarities of the picture or statue that we criticise. It is the same in art itself.
If Raphael had not painted the "Sistine Madonna" at the time he did, he would have produced
a different work. It was the concentration of that particular occasion, and if any accident
had happened to prevent it, that pious and beautiful vision would have been lost to the world.

It requires years of study and observation of the best masters to become a trustworthy art
critic, and then everything depends of course upon the genius of the individual. It has happened
more than once that a wealthy American, with a certain kind of enthusiasm for art, has prepared
himself at a German university, has studied the science of connoisseurship, and has become
associate member of a number of foreign societies, only to discover at length that he had no
talent for the profession. Hawthorne enjoyed no such advantages, nor did he even think of becoming
a connoisseur. His whole experience in the art of design might be included within twelve months,
and his original basis was nothing better than his wife's water-color painting and the mediocre
pictures in the Boston Athenaeum; but he brought to his subject an eye that was trained to
the closest observation of Nature and a mind experienced beyond all others [Footnote: At least
at that time.] in the mysteries of human life. He begins tentatively, and as might be expected
makes a number of errors, but quite as often he hits the nail, where others have missed it.
He learns by his mistakes, and steadily improves in critical faculty. Hawthorne's Italian Note-book
is a unique record, in which the development of a highly organized mind has advanced from small
beginnings to exceptional skill in a fresh department of activity.

Hawthorne brought with him to Italy the Yankee preference for newness and nicety, which our
forefathers themselves derived from their residence in Holland, and there is no city in Europe
where this sentiment could have troubled him so much as in Rome. He disliked the dingy picture-frames,
the uncleanly canvases, the earth-stains and broken noses of the antique statues, the smoked-up
walls of the Sistine Chapel, and the cracks in Raphael's frescos. He condemns everything as
rubbish which has not an external perfection; forgetting that, as in human nature, the most
precious treasures are sometimes allied with an ungainly exterior. Yet in this he only echoes
the impressions of thousands of others who have gone to the Vatican and returned disconsolate,
because amid a perplexing multitude of objects they knew not where to look for consummate art.
One can imagine if an experienced friend had accompanied Hawthorne to the Raphael stanza, and
had pointed out the figures of the Pope, the cardinal, and the angelic boys in the "Mass at
Bolsena," he would have admired them without limitation. He quickly discovered Raphael's "Transfiguration,"
and considered it the greatest painting that the world contains.

The paintings in the princely collections in Rome are, with the exception of those in the Borghese
gallery, far removed from princely. A large proportion of their best paintings had long since
been sold to the royal collections of northern Europe, and had been replaced either by copies
or by works of inferior masters. In the Barberini palace there are not more than three or four
paintings such as might reasonably detain a traveller, and it is about the same in the Ludovisi
gallery. There was not a grain of affectation in Hawthorne; he never pretended to admire what
he did not like, nor did he strain himself into liking anything that his inner nature rebelled
against.

Hawthorne's taste in art was much in advance of his time. His quick appreciation of the colossal
statues of Castor and Pollux on the Quirinal is the best proof of this. Ten years later it
was the fashion in Rome to deride those statues, as a late work of the empire and greatly lacking
in artistic style. Brunn, in his history of ancient sculpture, attributes them to the school
of Lysippus, a contemporary of Alexander, which Brunn certainly would not have done if he had
possessed a good eye for form. Vasari, on the contrary, a surer critic, considered them worthy
to be placed beside Michel Angelo's "David"; but it remained for Furtwangler to restore them
to their true position as a work of the Periclean age, although copied by Italian sculptors.
They must have been the product of a single mind, [Footnote: On the base of one is Opus Phidiae,
and on that of the other, Opus Praxitelis.] either Phidias, Alcameres, or the elder Praxiteles--if
there ever was such a person; and they have the finest figures of any statues in Rome (much
finer than the dandified "Apollo Belvedere") and also the most spirited action.

Hawthorne went to the Villa Ludovisi to see the much-vaunted bas-relief of Antinous, which
fifty years ago was considered one of the art treasures of the city; but a more refined taste
has since discovered that in spite of the rare technical skill, its hard glassy finish gives
it a cold and conventional effect. Hawthorne returned from it disappointed, and wrote in his diary:

"This Antinous is said to be the finest relic of antiquity next to the Apollo and the Laocoon;
but I could not feel it to be so, partly, I suppose, because the features of Antinous do not
seem to me beautiful in themselves; and that heavy, downward look is repeated till I am more
weary of it than of anything else in sculpture."

The Greek artist of Adrian's time attempted to give the face a pensive expression, but only
succeeded in this heavy downward look.

Hawthorne felt the same disappointment after his first visit to the sculpture-gallery of the
Vatican. "I must confess," he wrote, "taking such transient glimpses as I did, I was more impressed
with the extent of the Vatican, and the beautiful order in which it is kept and its great sunny,
open courts, with fountains, grass, and shrubs ... than with the statuary." The Vatican collection
has great archaeological value, but, with the exception of the "Laocoon," the "Meleager," the
"Apollo," and a few others, little or no artistic value. The vast majority of the statues there
are either late Roman works or cheap Roman copies of second-rate Hellenic statues. Some of
them are positively bad and others are archaic, and Hawthorne was fully justified in his disatisfaction
with them. He noticed, however, a decided difference between the original "Apollo" and the
casts of it with which he was familiar. On a subsequent visit he fails to observe the numerous
faults in Canova's "Perseus," and afterwards writes this original statement concerning the
"Laocoon":

"I felt the Laocoon very powerfully, though very quietly; an immortal agony with a strange
calmness diffused through it, so that it resembles the vast age of the sea, calm on account
of its immensity; as the tumult of Niagara, which does not seem to be tumult, because it keeps
pouring on forever and ever."

Professor E. A. Gardner and the more fastidious school of critics have recently decided that
the action of the "Laocoon" is too violent to be contained within the proper boundaries of
sculpture; but Hawthorne controverts this view in a single sentence. The action is violent,
it is true, but the impression which the statue makes on him is not a violent one; for the
greatness of the art sublimates the motive. It is a tragedy in marble, and Pliny, who had seen
the works of Phidias and Praxiteles, placed Agesander's "Laocoon" above them all. This, however,
is a Roman view. What Hawthorne wrote in his diary should not always be taken literally. When
he declares that he would like to have every artist that perpetrates an allegory put to death,
he merely expresses the puzzling effects which such compositions frequently exercise on the
weary-minded traveller; and when he wishes that all the frescos on Italian walls could be obliterated,
he only repeats a sentiment of similar strain. Perhaps we should class in the same category
Hawthorne's remark concerning the Elgin marbles in the British Museum, that "it would be well
if they were converted into paving- stones." There are no grander monuments of ancient art
than those battered and headless statues from the pediment of the Parthenon (the figures of
the so-called "Three Fates" surpass the "Venus of Melos"), and archaeologists are still in
dispute as to what they may have represented; but the significance of the subject before him
was always the point in which Hawthorne was interested. Julian Hawthorne says of his father,
in regard to a similar instance:

"Of technicalities,--difficulties overcome, harmony of lines, and so forth,--he had no explicit
knowledge; they produced their effect upon him of course, but without his recognizing the manner
of it. All that concerned him was the sentiment which the artist had meant to express; the
means and method were comparatively unimportant." [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 193.]

The technicalities of art differ with every clime and every generation. They belong chiefly
to the connoisseur, and have their value, but the less a critic thinks of them in making a
general estimate of a painting or statue, the more likely he is to render an impartial judgment.
Hawthorne's analysis of Praxiteles's "Faun," in his "Romance of Monte Beni," being a subject
in which he was particularly interested, is almost without a rival in the literature of its
kind; and this is the more remarkable since the copy of the "Faun" in the museum of the Capitol
is not one of the best, at least it is inferior to the one in the Glyptothek at Munich. It
seems as if Hawthorne had penetrated to the first conception of it in the mind of Praxiteles.

The Sistine Chapel, like the Italian scenery, only unfolds its beauties on a bright day, and
Hawthorne happened to go there when the sky was full of drifting clouds, a time when it is
difficult to see any object as it really is. It may have been on this account that he entirely
mistook the action of the Saviour in Michel Angelo's "Last Judgment." Christ has raised his
arm above his head in order to display the mark where he was nailed to the cross, and Hawthorne
presumed this, as many others have done, to be an angry threatening gesture of condemnation,
which would not accord with his merciful spirit. He appreciated the symmetrical figure of Adam,
and the majestic forms of the prophets and sibyls encircling the ceiling, and if he had seen
the face of the Saviour in a fair light, he might have recognized that such divine calmness
of expression could not coexist with a vindictive motive. This, however, can be seen to better
advantage in a Braun photograph than in the painting itself.

Hawthorne goes to the Church of San Pietro in Vincolo to see Michel Angelo's "Moses," but he
does not moralize before it, like a certain Concord artist, on "the weakness of exaggeration;"
nor does he consider, like Ruskin, that its conventional horns are a serious detriment. On
the contrary he finds it "grand and sublime, with a beard flowing down like a cataract; a truly
majestic figure, but not so benign as it were desirable that such strength should hold." An
Englishman present remarked that the "Moses" had very fine features,-- "a compliment," says
Hawthorne, "for which the colossal Hebrew ought to have made the Englishman a bow."

[Footnote: Italian Note-book, p. 164.]

Perhaps the Englishman really meant that the face had a noble expression. The somewhat satyr-like
features of the "Moses" would seem to have been unconsciously adopted, together with the horns,
from a statue of the god Pan, which thus serves as an intermediate link between the "Moses"
and the "Faun" of Praxiteles; but he who cannot appreciate Michel Angelo's "Moses" in spite
of this, knows nothing of the Alpine heights of human nature.

Of all the paintings that Hawthorne saw in Rome none impressed him so deeply as Guido's portrait
of Beatrice Cenci, and none more justly. If the "Laocoon" is the type of an old Greek tragedy,
a strong man strangled in the coils of Fate, the portrait of Beatrice represents the tragedy
of mediaeval Italy, a beautiful woman crushed by the downfall of a splendid civilization. The
fate of Joan of Arc or of Madame Roland was merciful compared to that of poor Beatrice. Religion
is no consolation to her, for it is the Pope himself who signs her death- warrant. She is massacred
to gratify the avarice of the Holy See. Yet in this last evening of her tragical life, she
does find strength and consolation in her dignity as a woman. Never was art consecrated to
a higher purpose; Guido rose above himself; and, as Hawthorne says, it seems as if mortal man
could not have wrought such an effect. It has always been the most popular painting in Rome,
but Hawthorne was the first to celebrate its unique superiority in writing, and his discourse
upon it in various places leaves little for those that follow.

It may have been long since discovered that Hawthorne's single weakness was a weakness for
his friends; certainly an amiable weakness, but nevertheless that is the proper name for it.
When Phocion was Archon of Athens, he said that a chief magistrate should know no friends;
and the same should be true of an authoritative writer. Hawthorne has not gone so far in this
direction as many others have who had less reason to speak with authority than he; but he has
indicated his partiality for Franklin Pierce plainly enough, and his over-praise of Hiram Powers
and William Story, as well as his under-praise of Crawford, will go down to future generations
as something of an injustice to those three artists.

It is not necessary to repeat here what Hawthorne wrote concerning Powers' Webster. The statue
stands in front of the State House at Boston, and serves as a good likeness of the famous orator,
but more than that one cannot say for it. The face has no definable expression, and those who
have looked for a central motive in the figure will be pleased to learn what it is by reading
Hawthorne's description of it, as he saw it in Powers' studio at Florence. A sculptor of the
present day can find no better study for his art than the attitudes and changes of countenance
in an eloquent speaker; but which of them can be said to have taken advantage of this? Story
made an attempt in his statue of Everett, but even his most indulgent friends did not consider
it a success. His "George Peabody," opposite the Bank of England, could not perhaps have been
altogether different from what it is.

What chiefly interested Story in his profession seems to have been the modelling of unhappy
women in various attitudes of reflection. He made a number of these, of which his "Cleopatra"
is the only one known to fame, and in the expression of her face he has certainly achieved
a high degree of excellence. Neither has Hawthorne valued it too highly, --the expression of
worldly splendor incarnated in a beautiful woman on the tragical verge of an abyss. If she
only were beautiful! Here the limitations of the statue commence. Hawthorne says, "The sculptor
had not shunned to give the full, Nubian lips and other characteristics of the Egyptian physiognomy."

Here he follows the sculptor himself, and it is remarkable that a college graduate like William
Story should have made so transparent a mistake. Cleopatra was not an Egyptian at all. The
Ptolemies were Greeks, and it is simply impossible to believe that they would have allied themselves
with a subject and alien race. This kind of small pedantry has often led artists astray, and
was peculiarly virulent during the middle of the past century. The whole figure of Story's
"Cleopatra" suffers from it. Hawthorne says again, "She was draped from head to foot in a costume
minutely and scrupulously studied from that of ancient Egypt." In fact, the body and limbs
of the statue are so closely shrouded as to deprive the work of that sense of freedom of action
and royal abandon which greets us in Shakespeare's and Plutarch's "Cleopatra." Story might
have taken a lesson from Titian's matchless "Cleopatra" in the Cassel gallery, or from Marc
Antonio's small woodcut of Raphael's "Cleopatra."

Perhaps it is not too much to say of Crawford that he was the finest plastic genius of the
Anglo-Saxon race. His technique may not have been equal to Flaxman's or St. Gaudens', but his
designs have more of grandeur than the former, and he is more original than the latter. There
are faults of modelling in his "Orpheus," and its attitude resembles that of the eldest son
of Niobe in the Florentine gallery,-- although the Niobe youth looks upward and Orpheus is
peering into darkness,--its features are rather too pretty; but the statue has exactly what
Powers' "Greek Slave" lacks, a definite motive,--that of an earnest seeker,--which pervades
it from head to foot; and it is no imaginary pathos that we feel in its presence. There is,
at least, no imitation of the antique in Crawford's "Beethoven," for its conception, the listening
to internal harmonies, would never have occurred to a Greek or a Roman. Even Hawthorne admits
Crawford's skill in the treatment of drapery; and this is very important, for it is in his
drapery quite as much as in the nude that we recognize the superiority of Michel Angelo to
Raphael; and the folds of Beethoven's mantle are as rhythmical as his own harmonies. The features
lack something of firmness, but it is altogether a statue in the grand manner.

Hawthorne is rather too exacting in his requirements of modern sculptors. Warrington Wood,
who commenced life as a marble-worker, always employed Italian workmen to carve his statues,
although he was perfectly able to do it himself, and always put on the finishing touches,--as
I presume they all do. Bronze statues are finished with a file, and of course do not require
any knowledge of the chisel.

In regard to the imitation of antique attitudes, there has certainly been too much of it, as
Hawthorne supposes; but the Greeks themselves were given to this form of plagiarism, and even
Praxiteles sometimes adopted the motives of his predecessors; but Hawthorne praises Powers,
Story, and Harriet Hosmer above their merits.

The whole brotherhood of artists and their critical friends might rise up against me, if I
were to support Hawthorne's condemnation of modern Venuses, and "the guilty glimpses stolen
at hired models." They are not necessarily guilty glimpses. To an experienced artist the customary
study from a naked figure, male or female, is little more than what a low-necked dress at a
party would be to many others. Yet the instinct of the age shrinks from this exposure. We can
make pretty good Venuses, but we cannot look at them through the same mental and moral atmosphere
as the contemporaries of Scopas, or even with the same eyes that Michel Angelo saw them. We
feel the difference between a modern Venus and an ancient one. There is a statue in the Vatican
of a Roman emperor, of which every one says that it ought to wear clothes; and the reason is
because the face has such a modern look. A raving Bacchante may be a good acquisition to an
art museum, but it is out of place in a public library. A female statue requires more or less
drapery to set off the outlines of the figure and to give it dignity. We feel this even in
the finest Greek work--like the "Venus of Cnidos."

In this matter Hawthorne certainly exposes his Puritanic education, and he also places too
high a value on the carving of button-holes and shoestrings by Italian workmen. Such things
are the fag-ends of statuary.

His judgment, however, is clear and convincing in regard to the tinted Eves and Venuses of
Gibson. Whatever may have been the ancient practice in this respect, Gibson's experiment proved
a failure. Nobody likes those statues; and no other sculptor has since followed Gibson's example.
The tinting of statues by the Greeks did not commence until the time of Aristotle, and does
not seem to have been very general. Their object evidently was, not so much to imitate flesh
as to tone down the crystalline glare of the new marble. Pausanias speaks of a statue in Arcadia,
the drapery of which was painted with vermilion, "so as to look very gay." This was of course
the consequence of a late and degraded taste. That traces of paint should have been discovered
on Greek temples is no evidence that the marble was painted when they were first built.

It may be suspected that Hawthorne was one of the very few who have seen the "Venus de Medici"
and recognized the true significance of the statue. The vast majority of visitors to the Uffizi
only see in it the type of a perfectly symmetrical woman bashfully posing for her likeness
in marble, but Hawthorne's perception in it went much beyond that, and the fact that he attempts
no explanation of its motive is in accordance with the present theory. He also noticed that
statues had sometimes exercised a potent spell over him, and at others a very slight influence.

Froude says that a man's modesty is the best part of him. Notice that, ye strugglers for preferment,
and how beautifully modest Hawthorne is, when he writes in his Florentine diary:

"In a year's time, with the advantage of access to this magnificent gallery, I think I might
come to have some little knowledge of pictures. At present I still know nothing; but am glad
to find myself capable, at least, of loving one picture better than another. I am sensible,
however, that a process is going on, and has been ever since I came to Italy, that puts me
in a state to see pictures with less toil, and more pleasure, and makes me more fastidious,
yet more sensible of beauty where I saw none before."

Hawthorne belongs to the same class of amateur critics as Shelley and Goethe, who, even if
their opinions cannot always be accepted as final, illuminate the subject with the radiance
of genius and have an equal value with the most experienced connoisseurs.

       *       *       *       *       *

The return of the Hawthornes to Rome through Tuscany was even more interesting than their journey
to Florence in the spring, and they enjoyed the inestimable advantage of a vetturino who would
seem to have been the Sir Philip Sidney of his profession, a compendium of human excellences.
There are such men, though rarely met with, and we may trust Hawthorne's word that Constantino
Bacci was one of them; not only a skilful driver, but a generous provider, honest, courteous,
kindly, and agreeable. They went first to Siena, where they were entertained for a week or
more by the versatile Mr. Story, and where Hawthorne wrote an eloquent description of the cathedral;
then over the mountain pass where Radicofani nestles among the iron-browed crags above the
clouds; past the malarious Lake of Bolsena, scene of the miracle which Raphael has commemorated
in the Vatican; through Viterbo and Sette Vene; and finally, on October 16, into Rome, through
the Porta' del Popolo, designed by Michel Angelo in his massive style, --Donati's comet flaming
before them every night. Thompson, the portrait painter, had already secured a furnished house,
No. 68 Piazza Poli, for the Hawthornes, to which they went immediately.

Since the death of Julius Casar, comets have always been looked upon as the forerunners of
pestilence and war, but wars are sometimes blessings, and Donati's discovery proved a harbinger
of good to Italy, --but to the Hawthornes, a prediction of evil. Continually in Hawthorne's
Italian journal we meet with references to the Roman malaria, as if it were a subject that
occupied his thoughts, and nowhere is this more common than during the return-journey from
Florence. Did it occur to him that the lightning might strike in his own house? No sensible
American now would take his children to Rome unless for a very brief visit; and yet William
Story brought up his family there with excellent success, so far as health was concerned.

We can believe that Hawthorne took every possible precaution, so far as he knew, but in spite
of that on November 1 his eldest daughter was seized with Roman fever, and for six weeks thereafter
lay trembling between life and death, so that it seemed as if a feather might turn the balance.

She does not appear to have been imprudent. Her father believed that the "old hag" breathed
upon her while she was with her mother, who was sketching in the Palace of the Casars; but
the Palatine Hill is on high ground, with a foundation of solid masonry, and was guarded by
French soldiers, and it would have been difficult to find a more cleanly spot in the city.
A German count, who lived in a villa on the Calian Hill, close by, considered his residence
one of the most healthful in Rome. Miss Una had a passionate attachment for the capital of
the ancient world; and it seems as if the evil spirit of the place had seized upon her, as
the Ice Maiden is supposed to entrap chamois hunters in the Alps.

One of the evils attendant on sickness in a foreign country is, the uncertainty in regard to
a doctor, and this naturally leads to a distrust and suspicion of the one that is employed.
Even so shrewd a man as Bismarck fell into the hands of a charlatan at St. Petersburg and suffered
severely in consequence. Hawthorne either had a similar experience, or, what came to the same
thing, believed that he did. He considered himself obliged to change doctors for his daughter,
and this added to his care and anxiety. During the next four months he wrote not a word in
his journal (or elsewhere, so far as we know), and he visibly aged before his wife's eyes.
He went to walk on occasion with Story or Thompson, but it was merely for the preservation
of his own health. His thoughts were always in his daughter's chamber, and this was so strongly
marked upon his face that any one could read it. Toward the Ides of March, Miss Una was sufficiently
improved to take a short look at the carnival, but it was two months later before she was in
a condition to travel, and neither she nor her father ever wholly recovered from the effects
of this sad experience.

CHAPTER XVI

"THE MARBLE FAUN": 1859-1860

What the Roman carnival was a hundred and fifty years ago, when the Italian princes poured
out their wealth upon it, and when it served as a medium for the communication of lovers as
well as for social and political intrigue, which sometimes resulted in conflicts like those
of the Montagues and Capulets, can only be imagined. Goethe witnessed it from a balcony in
the Corso, and his carnival in the second part of "Faust" was worked up from notes taken on
that occasion; but it is so highly poetized that little can be determined from it, except as
a portion of the drama. By Hawthorne's time the aristocratic Italians had long since given
up their favorite holiday to English and American travellers,--crowded out, as it were, by
the superiority of money; and since the advent of Victor Emmanuel, the carnival has become
so democratic that you are more likely to encounter your landlady's daughter there than any
more distinguished person. Hawthorne's description of it in "The Marble Faun" is not overdrawn,
and is one of the happiest passages in the book.

The carnival of 1859 was an exceptionally brilliant one. The Prince of Wales attended it with
a suite of young English nobles, who, always decorous and polite on public occasions, nevertheless
infused great spirit into the proceedings. Sumner and Motley were there, and Motley rented
a balcony in a palace, to which the Hawthornes received general and repeated invitations. On
March 7, Miss Una was driven through the Corso in a barouche, and the Prince of Wales threw
her a bouquet, probably recognizing her father, who was with her; and to prove his good intentions
he threw her another, when her carriage returned from the Piazza, del Popolo. The present English
sovereign has always been noted for a sort of journalistic interest in prominent men of letters,
science, and public affairs, and it is likely that he was better informed in regard to the
Hawthornes than they imagined. Hawthorne himself was too much subdued by his recent trial to
enter into the spirit of the carnival, even with a heart much relieved from anxiety, but he
sometimes appeared in the Motleys' balcony, and sometimes went along the narrow sidewalk of
the Corso, "for an hour or so among the people, just on the edges of the fun." Sumner invited
Mrs. Hawthorne to take a stroll and see pictures with him, from which she returned delighted
with his criticisms and erudition.

A few days later Franklin Pierce suddenly appeared at No. 68 Piazza Poli, with that shadow
on his face which was never wholly to leave it. The man who fears God and keeps his commandments
will never feel quite alone in the world; but for the man who lives on popularity, what will
there be left when that forsakes him? Hawthorne was almost shocked at the change in his friend's
appearance; not only at his gray hair and wrinkled brow, but at the change in his voice, and
at a certain lack of substance in him, as if the personal magnetism had gone out of him. Hawthorne
went to walk with him, and tried to encourage him by suggesting another term of the presidency,
but this did not help much, for even Pierce's own State had deserted him,--a fact of which
Hawthorne may not have been aware. The companionship of his old friend, however, and the manifold
novelty of Rome itself, somewhat revived the ex-President, as may be imagined; and a month
later he left for Venice, in better spirits than he came.

They celebrated the Ides of March by going to see Harriet Hosmer's statue of Zenobia, which
was afterward exhibited in America. Hawthorne immediately detected its resemblance to the antique,--the
figure was in fact a pure plagiarism from the smaller statue of Ceres in the Vatican,--but
Miss Hosmer succeeded in giving the face an expression of injured and sorrowing majesty, which
Hawthorne was equally ready to appreciate.

On this second visit to Rome he became acquainted with a sculptor, whose name is not given,
but who criticised Hiram Powers with a rather suspicious severity. He would not allow Powers
"to be an artist at all, or to know anything of the laws of art," although acknowledging him
to be a great bust-maker, and to have put together the "Greek Slave" and the "Fisher-Boy" very
ingeniously. "The latter, however (he says), is copied from the Spinario in the Tribune of
the Uffizi; and the former made up of beauties that had no reference to one another; and he
affirms that Powers is ready to sell, and has actually sold, the 'Greek Slave,' limb by limb,
dismembering it by reversing the process of putting it together. Powers knows nothing scientifically
of the human frame, and only succeeds in representing it, as a natural bone-doctor succeeds
in setting a dislocated limb, by a happy accident or special providence." [Footnote: Italian
Note-book, 483.]

We may judge, from "the style, the matter, and the drift" of this discourse, that it emanated
from the same sculptor who is mentioned, in "Nathaniel Hawthorne and His Wife," as having traduced
Margaret Fuller and her husband Count Ossoli. As Tennyson says, "A lie that is half a truth
is ever the blackest of lies," and this fellow would seem to have been an adept in unveracious
exaggeration. It is remarkable that Hawthorne should have given serious attention to such a
man; but an English critic said in regard to this same incident that if Hawthorne had been
a more communicative person, if he had talked freely to a larger number of people, he would
not have been so easily prejudiced by those few with whom he was chiefly intimate. To which
it could be added, that he might also have taken broader views in regard to public affairs.

Hawthorne was fortunate to have been present at the discovery of the St. Petersburg "Venus,"
the twin sister of the "Venus de Medici," which was dug up in a vineyard outside the Porta
Portese. The proprietor of the vineyard, who made his fortune at a stroke by the discovery,
happened to select the site for a new building over the buried ruins of an ancient villa, and
the "Venus" was discovered in what appeared to Hawthorne as an old Roman bath-room. The statue
was in more perfect preservation than the "Venus de Medici," both of whose arms have been restored,
and Hawthorne noticed that the head was larger and the face more characteristic, with wide-open
eyes and a more confident expression. He was one of the very few who saw it before it was transported
to St. Petersburg, and a thorough artistic analysis of it is still one of the desiderata. The
difference in expression, however, would seem to be in favor of the "Venus de Medici," as more
in accordance with the ruling motive of the figure.

Miss Una Hawthorne had not sufficiently recovered to travel until the last of May, when they
all set forth northward by way of Genoa and Marseilles, in which latter place we find them
on the 28th, enjoying the comfort and elegance of a good French hotel. Thence they proceeded
to Avignon, but did not find much to admire there except the Rhone; so they continued to Geneva,
the most pleasant, homelike resting place in Europe, but quite deficient in other attractions.

It seems as if Hawthorne's Roman friends were somewhat remiss in not giving him better advice
in regard to European travelling. At Geneva he was within a stone's throw of Chamounix, and
hardly more than that of Strasburg Cathedral, and yet he visited neither. Why did he go out
of his way to see so little and to miss so much? He went across the lake to visit Lausanne
and the Castle of Chillon, and he was more than astonished at the view of the Pennine Alps
from the deck of the steamer. He had never imagined anything like it; and he might have said
the same if he had visited Cologne Cathedral. Instead of that, however, he hurried through
France again, with the intention of sailing for America the middle of July; but after reaching
London he concluded to remain another year in England, to write his "Romance of Monte Beni,"
and obtain an English copyright for it.

He left Geneva on June 15, and as he turned his face northward, he felt that Henry Bright and
Francis Bennoch were his only real friends in Great Britain. There could hardly have been a
stronger contrast than these two. Bright was tall, slender, rather pale for an Englishman,
grave and philosophical. Bennoch was short, plump, lively and jovial, with a ready fund of
humor much in the style of Dickens, with whom he was personally acquainted. Yet Hawthorne recognized
that Bright and Bennoch liked him for what he was, in and of himself, and not for his celebrity
alone.

Bright was in London when Hawthorne reached there, and proposed that they should go together
to call on Sumner, [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 223.] who had been cured from the effects of
Brooks's assault by an equally heroic treatment; but Hawthorne objected that as neither of
them was Lord Chancellor, Sumner would not be likely to pay them much attention; to which Bright
replied, that Sumner had been very kind to him in America, and they accordingly went. Sumner
was kind to thousands,--the kindest as well as the most upright man of his time,-- and no one
in America, except Longfellow, appreciated Hawthorne so well; but he was the champion of the
anti-slavery movement and the inveterate opponent of President Pierce. I suppose a man's mind
cannot help being colored somewhat by such conditions and influences.

Hawthorne wished for a quiet, healthful place, where he could write his romance without the
disturbances that are incident to celebrity, and his friends recommended Redcar, on the eastern
coast of Yorkshire, a town that otherwise Americans would not have heard of. He went there
about the middle of July, remaining until the 5th of October, but of his life there we know
nothing except that he must have worked assiduously, for in that space of time he nearly finished
a book containing almost twice as many pages as "The Scarlet Letter." Meanwhile Mrs. Hawthorne
entertained the children and kept them from interfering with their father (in his small cottage),
by making a collection of sea-mosses, which Una and Julian gathered at low tides, and which
their mother afterward dried and preserved on paper. On October 4th Una Hawthorne wrote to
her aunt, Elizabeth Peabody:

"Our last day in Redcar, and a most lovely one it is. The sea seems to reproach us for leaving
it. But I am glad we are going, for I feel so homesick that I want constant change to divert
my thoughts. How troublesome feelings and affections are."

[Footnote: Mrs. Lathrop, 35 a.]

One can see that it was a pleasant place even after the days had begun to shorten, which they
do very rapidly in northern England. From Redcar, Hawthorne went to Leamington, where he finished
his romance about the first of December, and remained until some time in March, living quietly
and making occasional pedestrian tours to neighboring towns. He was particularly fond of the
walk to Warwick Castle, and of standing on the bridge which crosses the Avon, and gazing at
the walls of the Castle, as they rise above the trees--"as fine a piece of English scenery
as exists anywhere; the gray towers and long line of windows of the lordly castle, with a picturesquely
varied outline; ancient strength, a little softened by decay." It is a view that has often
been sketched, painted and engraved.

The romance was written, but had to be revised, the least pleasant portion of an author's duties,--unless
he chooses to make the index himself. This required five or six weeks longer, after which Hawthorne
went to London and arranged for its publication with Smith & Elder, who agreed to bring it
out in three volumes--although two would have been quite sufficient; but according to English
ideas, the length of a work of fiction adds to its importance. Unfortunately, Smith & Elder
also desired to cater to the more prosaic class of readers by changing the name of the romance
from "The Marble Faun" to "Transformation," and they appear to have done this without consulting
Hawthorne's wishes in the matter. It was simply squeezing the title dry of all poetic suggestions;
and it would have been quite as appropriate to change the name of "The Scarlet Letter" to "The
Clergyman's Penance," or to call "The Blithedale Romance" "The Suicide of a Jilt." If Smith
& Elder considered "The Marble Faun" too recondite a title for the English public, what better
name could they have hit upon than "The Romance of Monte Beni"? Would not the Count of Monte
Beni be a cousin Italian, as it were, to the Count of Monte Cristo? We are thankful to observe
that when Hawthorne published the book in America, he had his own way in regard to this point.

It was now that a new star was rising in the literary firmament, not of the "shooting" or transitory
species, and the genius of Marian Evans (George Eliot) was casting its genial penetrating radiance
over Great Britain and the United States. She was as difficult a person to meet with as Hawthorne
himself, and they never saw one another; but a friend of Mr. Bennoch, who lived at Coventry,
invited the Hawthornes there in the first week of February to meet Bennoch and others, and
Marian Evans would seem to have been the chief subject of conversation at the table that evening.
What Hawthorne gathered concerning her on that occasion he has preserved in this compact and
discriminating statement:

"Miss Evans (who wrote 'Adam Bede') was the daughter of a steward, and gained her exact knowledge
of English rural life by the connection with which this origin brought her with the farmers.
She was entirely self- educated, and has made herself an admirable scholar in classical as
well as in modern languages. Those who knew her had always recognized her wonderful endowments,
and only watched to see in what way they would develop themselves. She is a person of the simplest
manners and character, amiable and unpretending, and Mrs. B---- spoke of her with great affection
and respect."

There is actually more of the real George Eliot in this summary than in the three volumes of
her biography by Mr. Cross.

Thorwaldsen's well-known simile in regard to the three stages of sculpture, the life, the death
and the resurrection, also has its application to literature. The manuscript is the birth of
an author's work, and its revision always seems like taking the life out of it; but when the
proof comes, it is like a new birth, and he sees his design for the first time in its true
proportions. Then he goes over it as the sculptor does his newly-cast bronze, smoothing the
rough places and giving it those final touches which serve to make its expression clearer.
Hawthorne was never more to be envied than while correcting the proof of "The Marble Faun"
at Leamington. The book was given to the public at Easter-time; and there seems to have been
only one person in England that appreciated it, even as a work of art--John Lothrop Motley.
The most distinguished reviewers wholly failed to catch the significance of it; and even Henry
Bright, while warmly admiring the story, expressed a dissatisfaction at the conclusion of it,--although
he could have found a notable precedent for that in Goethe's "Wilhelm Meister." The Saturday
Review, a publication similar in tone to the New York Nation, said of "Transformation:"

[Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 250.]

"A mystery is set before us to unriddle; at the end the author turns round and asks us what
is the good of solving it. That the impression of emptiness and un-meaningness thus produced
is in itself a blemish to the work no one can deny. Mr. Hawthorne really trades upon the honesty
of other writers. We feel a sort of interest in the story, slightly and sketchily as it is
told, because our experience of other novels leads us to assume that, when an author pretends
to have a plot, he has one."

The Art Journal said of it: [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 249.]

"We are not to accept this book as a story; in that respect it is grievously deficient. The
characters are utterly untrue to nature and to fact; they speak, all and always, the sentiments
of the author; their words also are his; there is no one of them for which the world has furnished
a model."

And the London Athenaeum said: [Footnote: Ibid., ii. 244.]

"To Mr. Hawthorne truth always seems to arrive through the medium of the imagination.... His
hero, the Count of Monte Beni, would never have lived had not the Faun of Praxiteles stirred
the author's admiration.... The other characters, Mr. Hawthorne must bear to be told, are not
new to a tale of his. Miriam, the mysterious, with her hideous tormentor, was indicated in
the Zenobia of 'The Blithedale Romance.' Hilda, the pure and innocent, is own cousin to Phoebe
in 'The House of the Seven Gables'."

If the reviewer is to be reviewed, it is not too much to designate these criticisms as miserable
failures. They are not even well written. Henry Bright seemed to be thankful that they were
no worse, for he wrote to Hawthorne: "I am glad that sulky Athenaeum was so civil; for they
are equally powerful and unprincipled." The writer in the Athenaeum evidently belonged to that
class of domineering critics who have no literary standing, but who, like bankers' clerks,
arrogate to themselves all the importance of the establishment with which they are connected.
Fortunately, there are few such in America. No keen-witted reader would ever confound the active,
rosy, domestic Phoebe Pyncheon with the dreamy, sensitive, and strongly subjective Hilda of
"The Marble Faun;" and Hawthorne might have sent a communication to the Athenaeum to refresh
the reviewer's memory, for it was not Zenobia in "The Blithedale Romance" who was dogged by
a mysterious persecutor, but her half-sister--Priscilla. Shakespeare's Beatrice and his Rosalind
are more alike (for Brandes supposes them to have been taken from the same model) than Zenobia
and Miriam; and the difference between the persecutors of Priscilla and Miriam, as well as
their respective methods, is world-wide; but there are none so blind as those who are enveloped
in the turbid medium of their self-conceit.

The pure-hearted, chivalrous Motley read these reviews, and wrote to Hawthorne a vindication
of his work, which must have seemed to him like a broad belt of New England sunshine in the
midst of the London fog. In reference to its disparagement by so-called authorities, Motley
said: [Footnote: Mrs. Lathrop, 408.]

"I have said a dozen times that nobody can write English but you. It is exactly the romantic
atmosphere of the book in which I revel."

The calm face of Motley, with his classic features, rises before us as we read this, illumined
as it were by "the mild radiance of a hidden sun." He also had known what it was to be disparaged
by English periodicals; and if it had not been for Froude's spirited assertion in his behalf,
his history of the Dutch Republic might not have met with the celebrity it deserved. He was
aware of the difference between a Hawthorne and a Reade or a Trollope, and knew how unfair
it would be to judge Hawthorne even by the same standard as Thackeray. He does not touch in
this letter on the philosophical character of the work, although that must have been evident
to him, for he had said enough without it; but one could wish that he had printed the above
statement over his own name, in some English journal.

American reviewers were equally puzzled by "The Marble Faun," and, although it was generally
praised here, the literary critics treated it in rather a cautious manner, as if it contained
material of a dangerous nature. The North American, which should have devoted five or six pages
to it, gave it less than one; praising it in a conventional and rather unsympathetic tone.
Longfellow read it, and wrote in his diary, "A wonderful book; but with the old, dull pain
in it that runs through all Hawthorne's writings." There was always something of this dull
pain in the expression of Hawthorne's face.

ANALYSIS OF "THE MARBLE FAUN"

It is like a picture, or a succession of pictures, painted in what the Italians call the sfumato,
or "smoky" manner. The book is pervaded with the spirit of a dreamy pathos, such as constitutes
the mental atmosphere of modern Rome; not unlike the haze of an Indian summer day, which we
only half enjoy from a foreboding of the approach of winter. All outlines are softened and
partially blurred in it, as time and decay have softened the outlines of the old Roman ruins.
We recognize the same style with which we are familiar in "The Scarlet Letter," but influenced
by a change in Hawthorne's external impressions.

It is a rare opportunity when the work of a great writer can be traced back to its first nebulous
conception, as we trace the design of a pictorial artist to the first drawing that he made
for his subject. Although we cannot witness the development of the plot of this romance in
Hawthorne's mind, it is much to see in what manner the different elements of which it is composed,
first presented themselves to him, and how he adapted them to his purpose.

The first of these in order of time was the beautiful Jewess, whom he met at the Lord Mayor's
banquet in London; who attracted him by her tout ensemble, but at the same time repelled him
by an indefinable impression, a mysterious something, that he could not analyze. There would
seem, however, to have been another Jewess connected with the character of Miriam; for I once
heard Mrs. Hawthorne narrating a story in which she stated that she and her husband were driving
through London in a cab, and passing close to the sidewalk in a crowded street they saw a beautiful
woman, with black hair and a ruddy complexion, walking with the most ill- favored and disagreeable
looking Jew that could be imagined; and on the woman's face there was an expression of such
deep-seated unhappiness that Hawthorne and his wife turned to each other, and he said, "I think
that woman's face will always haunt me." I did not hear the beginning of Mrs. Hawthorne's tale,
but I always supposed that it related to "The Marble Faun," and it would seem as if the character
of Miriam was a composite of these two daughters of Israel, uniting the enigmatical quality
of one with the unfortunate companionship of the other, and the beauty of both.

As previously noticed, the portrait of Beatrice Cenci excited a deeply penetrating interest
in Hawthorne, and his reflections on it day after day would naturally lead him to a similar
design in regard to the romance which he was contemplating. The attribution of a catastrophe
like Beatrice's to either of the two Jewesses, would of course be adventitious, and should
be considered in the light of an artistic privilege.

The "Faun" of Praxiteles in the museum of the Capitol next attracted his attention. This is
but a poor copy of the original; but he penetrated the motive of the sculptor with those deep-seeing
eyes of his, and there is no analysis of an ancient statue by Brunn or Furtwangler that equals
Hawthorne's description of this one. It seems as if he must have looked backward across the
centuries into the very mind of Praxiteles, and he was, in fact, the first critic to appreciate
its high value. The perfect ease and simple beauty of the figure belong to a higher grade of
art than the Apollo Belvedere, and Hawthorne discovered what Winckelmann had overlooked. He
immediately conceived the idea of bringing the faun to life, and seeing how he would behave
and comport himself in the modern world--in brief, to use the design of Praxiteles as the mainspring
of a romance. In the evening of April 22, 1858, he wrote in his journal:

"I looked at the Faun of Praxiteles, and was sensible of a peculiar charm in it; a sylvan beauty
and homeliness, friendly and wild at once. It seems to me that a story, with all sorts of fun
and pathos in it, might be contrived on the idea of their species having become intermingled
with the human race; a family with the faun blood in them, having prolonged itself from the
classic era till our own days. The tail might have disappeared, by dint of constant intermarriages
with ordinary mortals; but the pretty hairy ears should occasionally reappear in members of
the family; and the moral instincts and intellectual characteristics of the faun might be most
picturesquely brought out, without detriment to the human interest of the story."

This statue served to concentrate the various speculative objects which had been hovering before
Hawthorne's imagination during the past winter, and when he reached Florence six weeks later,
the chief details of the plot were already developed in his mind.

Hilda and Kenyon are, of course, subordinate characters, like the first walking lady and the
first walking gentleman on the stage. They are the sympathetic friends who watch the progress
of the drama, continually hoping to be of service, but still finding themselves powerless to
prevent the catastrophe. It was perhaps their unselfish interest in their mutual friends that
at length taught them to know each other's worth, so that they finally became more than friends
to one another. True love, to be firmly based, requires such a mutual interest or common ground
on which the parties can meet,--something in addition to the usual attraction of the sexes.
Mrs. Hawthorne has been supposed by some to have been the original of Hilda; and by others
her daughter Una.

Conway holds an exceptional opinion, that Hilda was the feminine counterpart of Hawthorne himself;
but Hilda is only too transparent a character, while Hawthorne always was, and still remains,
impenetrable; and there was enough of her father in Miss Una, to render the same objection
applicable in her case. Hilda seems to me very much like Mrs. Hawthorne, as one may imagine
her in her younger days; like her in her mental purity, her conscientiousness, her devotion
to her art,--which we trust afterwards was transformed into a devotion to her husband,-- her
tendency to self-seclusion, her sensitiveness and her lack of decisive resolution. She is essentially
what they call on the stage an ingenue character; that is, one that remains inexperienced in
the midst of experience; and it is in this character that she contributes to the catastrophe
of the drama.

If Hawthorne appears anywhere in his own fiction, it is not in "The Blithedale Romance," but
in the role of Kenyon. Although Kenyon's profession is that of a sculptor, he is not to be
confounded with the gay and versatile Story. Neither is he statuesque, as the English reviewer
criticised him. He is rather a shadowy character, as Hawthorne himself was shadowy, and as
an author always must be shadowy to his readers; but Kenyon is to Hawthorne what Prospero is
to Shakespeare, and if he does not make use of magic arts, it is because they no longer serve
their purpose in human affairs. He is a wise, all-seeing, sympathetic mind, and his active
influence in the play is less conspicuous because it is always so quiet, and so correct.

It will be noticed that the first chapter and the last chapter of this romance have the same
title: "Miriam, Hilda, Kenyon, Donatello." This is according to their respective ages and sexes;
but it is also the terms of a proportion,--as Miriam is to Hilda, so is Kenyon to Donatello.
As the experienced woman is to the inexperienced woman, so is the experienced man to the inexperienced
man. This seems simple enough, but it has momentous consequences in the story. Donatello, who
is a type of natural but untried virtue, falls in love with Miriam, not only for her beauty,
but because she has acquired that worldly experience which he lacks. Hilda, suddenly aroused
to a sense of her danger in the isolated life she is leading, accepts Kenyon as a protector.
The means in this proportion come together and unite, because they are the mean terms, and
pursue a medium course. The extremes fly apart and are separated, simply because they are extremes.
But there is a spiritual bond between them, invisible, but stronger than steel, which will
bring them together again--at the Day of Judgment, if not sooner.

All tragedy is an investigation or exemplification of that form of human error which we call
sin; a catastrophe of nature or a simple error of judgment may be tragical, but will not constitute
a tragedy without the moral or poetic element.

In "The Scarlet Letter," we have the sin of concealment and its consequences. The first step
toward reformation is confession, and without that, repentance is little more than a good intention.

In "The House of the Seven Gables," Hawthorne has treated the sin of hypocrisy--a smiling politician
who courts popularity and pretends to be everybody's friend, and agrees with everybody,--only
with a slight reservation. There may be occasions on which hypocrisy is a virtue; but the habit
of hypocrisy for personal ends is like a dry rot in the heart of man.

In "The Blithedale Romance," we find the sin of moral affectation. Neither Hollingsworth nor
Zenobia is really what they pretend themselves to be. Their morality is a hollow shell, and
gives way to the first effective temptation. Zenobia betrays Priscilla; and is betrayed in
turn by Hollingsworth,--as well as the interests of the association which had been committed
to his charge.

The kernel of "The Marble Faun" is original sin. It is a story of the fall of man, told again
in the light of modern science. It is a wonderful coincidence that almost in the same months
that Hawthorne was writing this romance, Charles Darwin was also finishing his work on the
"Origin of Species;" for one is the moral counterpart of the other. Hawthorne did not read
scientific and philosophical books, but he may have heard something of Darwin's undertaking
in England, as well as Napoleon's prophetic statement at St. Helena, that all the animals form
an ascending series, leading up to man. [Footnote: Dr. O'Meara's "A Voice from St. Helena."]
The skeleton of a prehistoric man discovered in the Neanderthal cave, which was supposed to
have proved the Darwinian theory, does not suggest a figure similar to the "Faun" of Praxiteles,
but the followers of Darwin have frequently adverted to the Hellenic traditions of fauns and
satyrs in support of their theory. Hawthorne, however, has made a long stride beyond Darwin,
for he has endeavored to reconcile this view of creation with the Mosaic cosmogony; and it
must be admitted that he has been fairly successful. The lesson that Hawthorne teaches is,
that evil does not reside in error, but in neglecting to be instructed by our errors. It is
this which makes the difference between a St. Paul and a Nero. The fall of man was only apparent;
it was really a rise in life. The Garden of Eden prefigures the childhood of the human race.
Do we not all go through this idyllic moral condition in childhood, learning through our errors
that the only true happiness consists in self-control? Do not all judicious parents protect
their children from a knowledge of the world's wickedness, so long as it is possible to prevent
it,--and yet not too long, for then they would become unfitted for their struggle with the
world, and in order to avoid the pitfalls of mature life they must know where the pitfalls
are. It is no longer essential for the individual to pass through the Cain and Abel experience--that
has been accomplished by the race as a whole; but it is quite possible to imagine an incipient
condition of society in which the distinction of justifiable homicide in self-defence (which
is really the justification of war between nations) has not yet obtained.

Hawthorne's Donatello is supposed to belong, in theory at least, to that primitive era; but
it is not necessary to go back further than the feudal period to look for a man who never has
known a will above his own. Donatello seizes Miriam's tormentor and casts him down the Tarpeian
Rock,--from the same instinct, or clairvoyant perception, that a hound springs at the throat
of his master's enemy. When the deed is done he recognizes that the punishment is out of all
proportion to the offence,--which is in itself the primary recognition of a penal code,-- and
more especially that the judgment of man is against him. He realizes for the first time the
fearful possibilities of his nature, and begins to reflect. He is a changed person; and if
not changed for the better yet with a possibility of great improvement in the future. His act
was at least an unselfish one, and it might serve as the argument for a debate, whether Donatello
did not do society a service in ridding the earth of such a human monstrosity. Hawthorne has
adjusted the moral balance of his case so nicely, that a single scruple would turn the scales.

The tradition among the Greeks and Romans, of a Golden Age, corresponds in a manner to the
Garden of Eden of Semitic belief. There may be some truth in it. Captain Speke, while exploring
the sources of the Nile, discovered in central Africa a negro tribe uncontaminated by European
traders, and as innocent of guile as the antelopes upon their own plains; and this suggests
to us that all families and races of men may have passed through the Donatello stage of existence.

Hawthorne's master-stroke in the romance is his description or analysis of the effect produced
by this homicide on the different members of the group to which he has introduced us. The experienced
and worldly-wise Kenyon is not informed of the deed until his engagement to Hilda, but he has
sufficient reason to suspect something of the kind from the simultaneous disappearance of Donatello
and the model, as well as from the sudden change in Miriam's behavior. Yet he does not treat
Donatello with any lack of confidence. He visits him at his castle of Monte Beni, which is
simply the Villa Manteuto somewhat idealized and removed into the recesses of the Apennines;
he consoles him in his melancholy humor; tries to divert him from gloomy thoughts; and meanwhile
watches with a keen eye and friendly solicitude for the denouement of this mysterious drama.
If he had seen what Hilda saw, he would probably have left Rome as quickly as possible, never
to return; and Donatello's fate might have been different.

The effect on the sensitive and inexperienced Hilda was like a horrible nightmare. She cannot
believe her senses, and yet she has to believe them. It seems to her as if the fiery pit has
yawned between her and the rest of the human race. Her position is much like that of Hamlet,
and the effect on her is somewhat similar. She thrusts Miriam from her with bitterness; yet
forms no definite resolutions, and does she knows not what; until, overburdened by the consciousness
of her fatal secret, she discloses the affair to an unknown priest in the church of St. Peter.
Neither does she seem to be aware at any time of the serious consequences of this action.

Miriam, more experienced even than Kenyon, is not affected by the death of her tormentor so
much directly as she is by its influence on Donatello. Hitherto she had been indifferently
pleased by his admiration for her; now the tables are turned and she conceives the very strongest
attachment for him. She follows him to his castle in disguise, dogs his footsteps on the excursion
which he and Kenyon make together, shadows his presence again in Rome, and is with him at the
moment of his arrest. This is all that we know of her from the time of her last unhappy interview
with Hilda. Her crime consisted merely in a look,--the expression of her eyes,--and the whole
world is free to her; but her heart is imprisoned in the same cell with Donatello. There is
not a more powerful ethical effect in Dante or Sophocles.

A certain French writer [Footnote: Name forgotten, but the fact is indelible.] blames Hilda
severely for her betrayal of Miriam (who was at least her best friend in Rome), and furthermore
designates her as an immoral character. This, we may suppose, is intended for a hit at New
England Puritanism; and from the French stand-point, it is not unfair. Hilda represents Puritanism
in its weakness and in its strength. It is true, what Hamlet says, that "conscience makes cowards
of us all," but only true under conditions like those of Hamlet,--desperate emergencies, which
require exceptional expedients. On the contrary, in carrying out a great reform like the abolition
of slavery, the education of the blind, or the foundation of national unity, a man's conscience
becomes a tower of strength to him. As already intimated, what Hilda ought to have done was,
to leave Rome at once, and forever; but she is no more capable of forming such a resolution,
than Hamlet was of organizing a conspiracy against his usurping uncle. When, however, the priest
steps out from the confessional-box and attempts to make a convert of Hilda,--for which indeed
she has given him a fair opening,--she asserts herself and her New England training, with true
feminine dignity, and in fact has decidedly the best of the argument. It is a trying situation,
in which she develops unexpected resources. Hawthorne's genius never shone forth more brilliantly
than in this scene at St. Peter's. It is Shakespearian.

Much dissatisfaction was expressed when "The Marble Faun" was first published, at the general
vagueness of its conclusion. Hawthorne's admirers wished especially for some clearer explanation
of Miriam's earlier life, and of her relation to the strange apparition of the catacombs. He
answered these interrogatories in a supplementary chapter which practically left the subject
where it was before--an additional piece of mystification. In a letter to Henry Bright he admitted
that he had no very definite scheme in his mind in regard to Miriam's previous history, and
this is probably the reason why his readers feel this vague sense of dissatisfaction with the
plot. I have myself often tried to think out a prelude to the story, but without any definite
result. Miriam's persecuting model was evidently a husband who had been forced upon her by
her parents, and would not that be sufficient to account for her moods of gloom and despondency?
Yet Hawthorne repeatedly intimates that there was something more than this. Let us not think
of it. If the tale was not framed in mystery, Donatello would not seem so real to us. Do not
the characters in "Don Quixote" and "Wilhelm Meister" spring up as it were out of the ground?
They come we know not whence, and they go we know not whither. It is with these that "The Marble
Faun" should be classed and compared, and not with "Middle- march," "Henry Esmond," or "The
Heart of Midlothian."

Goethe said, while looking at the group of the "Laocoon," "I think that young fellow on the
right will escape the serpents." This was not according to the story Virgil tells, but it is
true to natural history. Similarly, it is pleasant to think that the Pope's mercy may ultimately
have been extended to Donatello. We can imagine an aged couple living a serious, retired life
in the castle of Monte Beni, childless, and to a certain extent joyless, but taking comfort
in their mutual affection, and in acts of kindness to their fellow-mortals.

In order to see Hilda's tower in Rome, go straight down from the Spanish Steps to the Corso,
turn to the right, and you will soon come to the Via Portoghese (on the opposite side), where
you will easily recognize the tower on the right hand. The tower is five stories in height,
set in the front of the palace, and would seem to be older than the building about it; the
relic, perhaps, of some distinguished mediaeval structure. The odd little shrine to the Virgin,
a toy-like affair, still surmounts it; but its lamp is no longer burning. It was fine imagination
to place Hilda in this lofty abode.

CHAPTER XVII

HOMEWARD BOUND: 1860-1862

There is no portion of Hawthorne's life concerning which we know less than the four years after
his return from England to his native land. He was so celebrated that every eye was upon him;
boys stopped their games to see him pass by, and farmers stood still in the road to stare at
him. He was Hawthorne the famous, and every movement he made was remembered, every word spoken
by him was recorded or related, and yet altogether it amounts to little enough. Letters have
been preserved in number,--many of his own and others from his English friends, and those from
his wife to her relatives; but they do not add much to the picture we have already formed in
our minds of the man. As he said somewhere, fame had come too late to be a satisfaction to
him, but on the contrary more of an annoyance. Hawthorne left Leamington the last of March,
and transferred his family to Bath, which he soon discovered to be the pleasantest English
city he had lived in yet,--symmetrically laid out, like a Continental city, and built for the
most part of a yellowish sandstone; not unlike in appearance the travertine of which St. Peter's
at Rome is built. The older portion of the city lies in a hollow among the hills, like an amphitheatre,
and the more recent additions rise upon the hill-sides above it to a considerable height. This
is the last note of enthusiasm in his writings; and in the next entry in his diary, which was
written at Lothrop Motley's house, Hertford Street, London, May 16, he makes this ominous confession:
"I would gladly journalize some of my proceedings, and describe things and people, but I find
the same coldness and stiffness in my pen as always since our return to England." It is only
too evident that from this time literary composition, which had been the chief recreation of
his youth, and in which he had always found satisfaction until now, was no longer a pleasure
to him. It is the last entry in his journal, at least for more than two years, and whatever
writing he accomplished in the mean time was done for the sake of his wife and children. Dickens
had a similar experience the last year of his life. Clearly, Hawthorne's nervous force was waning.

On May 15, Hawthorne and Motley were invited to dine by Earl Dufferin, that admirable diplomat
and one of the pleasantest of men. In fact, if there was a person living who could make Hawthorne
feel perfectly at his ease, it was Dufferin. Motley provided some entertainment or other for
his guest every day, and Hawthorne confessed that the stir and activity of London life were
doing him "a wonderful deal of good." What he seems to have needed at this time was a vigorous,
objective employment that would give his circulation a start in the right direction; but how
was he to obtain that?

He enjoyed one last stroll with Henry Bright through Hyde Park and along the Strand, and found
time to say a long farewell to Francis Bennoch: the last time he was to meet either of them
on this side of eternity.

He returned to Bath the 1st of June, and ten days later they all embarked for Boston,--as it
happened, by a pleasant coincidence, with the same captain with whom they had left America
seven years before. Mrs. Hawthorne's sister, Mrs. Horace Mann, prepared their house at Concord
for their reception, and there they arrived at the summer solstice.

The good people of Concord had been mightily stirred up that spring, by an attempt to arrest
Frank B. Sanborn and carry him forcibly to Washington,--contrary to law, as the Supreme Court
of the State decided the following day. The marshal who arrested him certainly proceeded more
after the manner of a burglar than of a civil officer, hiding himself with his posse comitatus
in a barn close to Sanborn's school-house, watching his proceedings through the cracks in the
boards, and finally arresting him at night, just as he was going to bed; but the alarm was
quickly sounded, and the whole male population of the place, including Emerson, turned out
like a swarm of angry hornets, and the marshal and his posse were soon thankful to escape with
their bones in a normal condition. A few nights later, the barn, which was owned by a prominent
official in the Boston Custom House, was burned to the ground (the fire-company assisting),
as a sacrifice on the altar of personal liberty.

The excitement of this event had not yet subsided when the arrival of the Hawthorne family
produced a milder and more amiable, but no less profound, sensation in the old settlement;
and this was considerably increased by the fact that for the first month nothing was seen of
them, except a sturdy-looking boy fishing from a rock in Concord River, opposite the spot where
his father and Channing had discovered the unfortunate school-mistress. Old friends made their
calls and were cordially received, but Hawthorne himself did not appear in public places; and
it was soon noticed that he did not take the long walks which formerly carried him to the outer
limits of the town. He was sometimes met on the way to Walden Pond, either alone or in company
with his son; but Bronson Alcott more frequently noticed him gliding along in a ghost-like
manner by the rustic fence which separated their two estates, or on the way to Sleepy Hollow.
When the weather became cooler he formed a habit of walking back and forth on the hill-side
above his house, where the bank descends sharply like a railroad-cut, with dwarf pines and
shrub oaks on the further side of it. He wore a path there, which is described in "Septimius
Felton," and it is quite possible that the first inception of that story entered his mind while
looking down upon the Lexington road beneath him, and imagining how it appeared while filled
with marching British soldiers.

About July 10, 1860, the scholars of Mr. Sanborn's school, male and female, gave an entertainment
in the Town Hall, not unlike Harvard Class Day. Mrs. Hawthorne and her eldest daughter appeared
among the guests, and attracted much attention from the quiet grace and dignity of their manners;
but there was an expression of weariness on Miss Una's face, which contrasted strangely with
the happy, blithesome looks of the school-girls. Some idea of the occasion may be derived from
a passing remark of Mrs. Hawthorne to a Harvard student present: "My daughter will be happy
to dance with you, sir, if I can only find her."

In September Hawthorne wrote to James T. Fields: [Footnote: Mrs. J. T. Fields, 118.]

"We are in great trouble on account of our poor Una, in whom the bitter dregs of that Roman
fever are still rankling, and have now developed themselves in a way which the physicians foreboded.
I do not like to write about it, but will tell you when we meet. Say nothing."

Miss Una was evidently far from well, and her father's anxiety for her sensibly affected his
mental tone.

He was invited at once to join the Saturday Club, popularly known at that time as the Atlantic
Club, because its most conspicuous members were contributors to that periodical. Hawthorne
did not return in season to take part in the Club's expedition to the Adirondack Mountains,
concerning which Doctor Holmes remarked that, considering the number of rifles they carried,
it was fortunate that they all returned alive. The meetings of the Club came but once a month,
and as the last train to Concord was not a very late one, Judge Hoar had his carryall taken
down to Waltham on such occasions, and thence he, with Hawthorne and Emerson, drove back to
Concord through the woods in the darkness or moonlight; and Hawthorne may have enjoyed this
as much as any portion of the entertainment.

A club whose membership is based upon celebrity reminds one rather of a congregation of stags,
all with antlers of seven tines. There was every shade of opinion, political, philosophical
and religious, represented in the Saturday Club, and if they never fought over such subjects
it was certainly much to their credit. Very little has been divulged of what took place at
their meetings; but it is generally known that in the winter of 1861 Longfellow was obliged
to warn his associates that if they persisted in abusing Sumner he should be obliged to leave
their company; Sumner being looked upon by the Democrats and more timid Republicans as the
chief obstacle to pacification; as if any one man could prop a house up when it was about to
fall. After the War began, this naturally came to an end, and Sumner was afterwards invited
to join the Club, with what satisfaction to Hoar, Lowell, and Holmes it might be considering
rather curiously to inquire. We can at least feel confident that Hawthorne had no share in
this. He did not believe in fighting shadows, and he at least respected Sumner for his frankness
and disinterestedness.

Such differences of opinion, however, are not conducive to freedom of discussion. Henry James,
Sr., lifts the veil for a moment in a letter to Emerson, written about this time, [Footnote:
Memoir of Bronson Alcott; also the "Hawthorne Centenary."] and affords us a picture of Hawthorne
at the Saturday Club, which might bear the designation of a highly-flavored caricature. According
to Mr. James, John M. Forbes, the Canton millionaire, preserved the balance at one end of the
table, while Hawthorne, an oasis in a desert, served as the nearest approach to a human being,
at the other. "How he buried his eyes in his plate and ate with such a voracity! that no one
should dare to ask him a question."

We do not realize the caricaturist in Henry James, Jr., so readily, on account of his elastic
power of expression; but the relationship is plain and apparent. Both father and son ought
to have been baptized in the Castalian Fount. There are those who have been at table with both
Hawthorne and the elder James, and without the slightest reflection on Mr. James, have confessed
their preference for the quiet composure and simple dignity of Hawthorne. In truth Hawthorne's
manners were above those of the polished courtier or the accomplished man of fashion: they
were poetic manners, and in this respect Longfellow most nearly resembled him of all members
of the Club; although Emerson also had admirable manners and they were largely the cause of
his success. It would have done no harm if Emerson had burned this letter after its first perusal,
but since it is out of the bag we must even consider it as it deserves.

Hawthorne must have enjoyed the meetings of the Club or he would not have attended them so
regularly. He wrote an account of the first occasion on which he was present, giving an accurate
description of the dinner itself and enclosing a diagram of the manner in which the guests
were seated, but without any commentary on the proceedings of the day. It was, after all, one
of the nerve-centres of the great world, and an agreeable change from the domestic monotony
of the Wayside. Thackeray would have descried rich material for his pen in it, but Hawthorne's
studies lay in another direction. Great men were not his line in literature.

Meanwhile Mrs. Hawthorne and her daughter were transforming their Concord home into a small
repository of the fine arts. Without much that would pass by the title of elegance, they succeeded
in giving it an unpretentious air of refinement, and one could not enter it without realizing
that the materials of a world-wide culture had been brought together there. Hawthorne soon
found the dimensions of the house too narrow for the enlarged views which he had brought with
him from abroad, and he designed a tower to be constructed at one corner of it, similar to,
if not so lofty as that of the Villa Manteuto. This occupied him and the dilatory Concord carpenter
for nearly half a year; and meanwhile chaos and confusion reigned supreme. There was no one
whose ears could be more severely offended by the music of the carpenter's box and the mason's
trowel than Hawthorne, and he knew not whether to fly his home or remain in it. Not until all
this was over could he think seriously of a new romance.

He made his study in the upper room of the tower; a room exactly twenty feet square, with a
square vaulted ceiling and five windows,--too many, one would suppose, to produce a pleasant
effect of light,--and walls papered light yellow. There he could be as quiet and retired as
in the attic of his Uncle Robert Manning's house in Salem. Conway states that he wrote at a
high desk, like Longfellow, and walked back and forth in the room while thinking out what he
was going to say. The view from his windows extended across the meadows to Walden woods and
the Fitchburg railroad track, and it also commanded the Alcott house and the road to Concord
village. It was in this work-shop that he prepared "Our Old Home" for the press and wrote the
greater part of "Septimius Felton" and "The Dolliver Romance."

The War was a new source of distraction. It broke out before the tower was finished, stimulating
Hawthorne's nerves, but disturbing that delicate mental equilibrium upon which satisfactory
procedure of his writing depended. [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 276.]

Hawthorne's patriotism was genuine and deep-seated. He was not the only American whom the bombardment
of Fort Sumter had awakened to the fact that he had a country. What we have always enjoyed,
we do not think of until there is danger of losing it.

There were many in those times who thought and felt as Hawthorne did. Douglas said in the Senate,
"Even if you coerce the Southern States and bring them back by force, it will not be the same
Union." A people does not necessarily mean a nation; for the idea of nationality is of slow
growth, and is in a manner opposed to the idea of democracy; for if the right of government
depends on the consent of the governed, the primary right of the governed must be to abrogate
that government whenever they choose to do so. Hawthorne was simply a consistent democrat;
but time has proved the fallacy of Douglas's statement, and that a forcible restoration of
the Union was entirely compatible with friendliness and mutal good-will between the different
sections of the country,--after slavery, which was the real obstacle to this, had been eliminated.
If the States east of the Alleghanies should attempt to separate from the rest of the nation,
it would inevitably produce a war similar to that of 1861. [Footnote: The "Hawthorne Centenary,"
197.] When George L. Stearns was organizing the colored regiments in Tennessee in 1863 he wrote
concerning his work, in almost exactly these terms; and the inference is plain that Hawthorne
might have been more of a humanitarian if his early associations had been different.

Such an original character as Bronson Alcott for a next-door neighbor could not long escape
Hawthorne's penetrating glance. Alcott was an interesting personality, perfectly genuine, frank,
kindly and imperturbably good-humored. He had a benevolent aspect, and in general appearance
so much resembled the portraits of Benjamin Franklin that his ingenious daughters made use
of him in charades and theatricals for that purpose. Hawthorne had known him many years earlier,
and had spoken very pleasantly of him in his first publication of "The Hall of Fantasy." He
even said, "So calm and gentle was he, so quiet in the utterance of what his soul brooded upon,
that one might readily conceive his Orphic Sayings to well up from a fountain in his breast,
which communicated with the infinite abyss of thought,"--rather an optimistic view for Hawthorne.
Alcott's philosophy had the decided merit, which Herbert Spencer's has not, of a strong affirmation
of a Great First Cause, and our direct responsibility thereto: but it was chiefly the philosophy
of Plotinus; and his constant reiteration of a "lapse" in human nature from divine perfection
(which was simply the Donatello phase expressed in logic), with the various corollaries deduced
from it, finally became as wearisome as the harp with a single string. Whether he troubled
Hawthorne in that way, is rather doubtful, for even as a hobby-rider, Alcott was a man of Yankee
shrewdness and considerable tact. Rose Hawthorne says that "he once brought a particularly
long poem to read, aloud to my mother and father; a seemingly harmless thing from which they
never recovered." What poem this could have been I have no idea, but in his later years Alcott
wrote some excellent poetry, and those who ought to know do not think that he bored Hawthorne
very severely. They frequently went to walk together, taking Julian for a make-weight, and
Hawthorne could easily have avoided this if he had chosen. There are times for all of us when
our next-door neighbors prove a burden; and it cannot be doubted that in most instances this
is reciprocal. [Footnote: Rose Hawthorne, however, writes charmingly of the Alcotts. Take this
swift sketch, among others: "I imagine his slightly stooping, yet tall and well-grown figure,
clothed in black, and with a picturesque straw hat, twining itself in and out of forest aisles,
or craftily returning home with gargoyle-like stems over his shoulders."]

Alcott was a romance character of exceptional value, and Hawthorne recognized this, but did
not succeed in inventing a plot that would suit the subject. The only one of Hawthorne's preparatory
sketches given to the public--in which we see his genius in the "midmost heat of composition"--supposes
a household in which an old man keeps a crab- spider for a pet, a deadly poisonous creature;
and in the same family there is a boy whose fortunes will be mysteriously affected in some
manner by this dangerous insect. He did not proceed sufficiently to indicate for us how this
would turn out, but he closes the sketch with the significant remark, "In person and figure
Mr. Alcott"; from which it may be inferred that the crab-spider was intended to symbolize Alcott's
philosophy, and the catastrophe of the romance would naturally result from the unhealthy mental
atmosphere in which the boy grew up,-- a catastrophe which in Alcott's family was averted by
the practical sagacity of his daughters. The idea, however, became modified in its application.

It is with regret that we do not allot a larger space to this important sketch, for it is clearly
an original study (like an artist's drawing) of the unfinished romance which was published
in 1883 under the title of "Doctor Grimshawe's Secret." Long lost sight of in the mass of Hawthorne's
manuscripts, this last of his posthumous works was reviewed by the critics with some incredulity,
and Lathrop had the hardihood to publicly assert that no such romance by Hawthorne's pen existed,
thereby casting a gratuitous slander on his own brother-in-law. We may have our doubts in regard
to the authorship of Shakespeare's plays, for we have no absolute standard by which to judge
of Shakespeare's style, but the "style, the matter, and the drift" of "Doctor Grimshawe's Secret"
are so essentially Hawthornish that a person experienced in judging of such matters should
not hesitate long in deciding that it belongs in the same category with "Fanshawe" and "The
Dolliver Romance." It is even possible to determine, from certain peculiarities in its style,
the exact period at which it was written; which must have been shortly after Hawthorne's return
from Europe. In addition to this, if further evidence were required, its close relationship
to the aforementioned sketch is a fact which no sophistry can reason away. [Footnote:  This
sketch was published in the Century, January, 1883.]

The bloody footstep suggested to Hawthorne by the antediluvian print in the stone step at Smithell's
Hall, in Lancashire, serves as the key- note of this romance; but the eccentric recluse, the
big crab-spider, the orphaned grandchild, and even Bronson Alcott also appear in it. Alcott,
however,--and his identity cannot be mistaken,--does not play the leading part in the piece,
but comes in at the fifth chapter, only to disappear mysteriously in the eighth; the orphan
boy is companioned by a girl of equal age, and these two bright spirits, mutually sustaining
each other, cast a radiance over the old Doctor in his dusty, frowsy, cobwebby study, which
brings out the external appearance and internal peculiarities of the man, in the most vivid
manner. The dispositions and appearances of the two children are also contrasted, as Raphael
might have drawn and contrasted them, if he had painted a picture on a similar subject.

The crab-spider is one of the most horrible of Nature's creations. Hawthorne saw one in the
British Museum and it seems to have haunted his imagination ever afterward. Why the creature
should have been introduced into this romance is not very clear, for it plays no part in the
development of the plot. The spider hangs suspended over the old Doctor's head like the sword
of Damocles, and one would expect it to descend at the proper moment in the narrative, and
make an end of him with its nippers; but Doctor Grimshawe dies a comparatively natural death,
and the desiccated body of the spider is found still clinging to the web above him. The man
and the insect were too closely akin in the modes and purposes of their lives for either to
outlast the other. There is nothing abnormal in the fact of Doctor Grimshawe's possessing this
dangerous pet; for all kinds of poisonous creatures have a well- known fascination for the
medical profession. Doctor Holmes amused himself with a rattlesnake.

In spite of its unpleasant associations with spiders and blood-stains, "Doctor Grimshawe's
Secret" is one of the most interesting of Hawthorne's works, containing much of his finest
thought and most characteristic description. The portrait of the grouty old Doctor himself
has a solidity of impast like Shakespeare's Falstaff, and the grave-digger, who has survived
from colonial times, carries us back involuntarily to the burial scene in "Hamlet." Alcott,
whose name is changed to Colcord, is not treated realistically, but rather idealized in such
kindly sympathetic manner as might prevent all possibility of offence at the artistic theft
of his personality. The plot, too, is a most ingenious one, turning and winding like a hare,
and even diving out of sight for a time; but only to reappear again, as the school- master
Colcord does, with a full and satisfactory explanation of its mysterious course. To judge from
the appearance of the manuscript, this romance was written very rapidly, and there are places
in the text which intimate this; but it vies in power with "The Scarlet Letter," and why Hawthorne
should have become dissatisfied with it,--why he should have failed to complete, revise, and
publish it--can only be accounted for by the mental or nervous depression which was now fastening
itself upon him.

It is noticeable, however, that where the plot is transferred to English ground Hawthorne's
writing has much the same tone and quality that we find in "Our Old Home." External appearances
seem to impede his insight there; but this is additional proof of the authenticity of the work.
[Footnote: There are many other evidences; such as, "after-dinner speeches on the necessity
of friendly relations between England and the United States," and "the whistling of the railway
train, two or three times a day."]

Shortly after the battle of Bull Run Hawthorne went with his boy to recuperate at Beverly Farms,
leaving his wife and daughters at the Wayside, and the letters which passed between these two
divisions of the family, during his absence, give some very pretty glimpses of their idyllic
summer life. Mrs. Hawthorne "cultivated her garden," and gave drawing lessons to the neighbors'
children, while her husband, forty miles away, was fishing and bathing. The Beverly shore has
not a stimulating climate, but is very attractive in summer to those who do not mind a few
sultry nights from land breezes. It was near enough to Salem for Hawthorne to revive the reminiscences
of his youth (which become more and more precious after the age of fifty), without obtruding
himself on the gaze of his former townsmen or of the young lady "who wished she could poison
him." [Footnote: W. D. Howells' Memoirs.] It is to be hoped that he saw something of his sister
Elizabeth again, the last remnant of his mother's household, who for some inscrutable reason
had never visited him at Concord.

We note here a curious circumstance; namely, that Hawthorne appears to have lost the art of
writing short sketches. It will be recollected that twenty years earlier he did not feel equal
to anything beyond this, and that it cost him a strenuous effort to escape from the habit.
Now when he would have liked to return to that class of composition he could not do so. Fields
would have welcomed anything from his pen (so severe a critic he was of himself), but his name
does not appear in the Atlantic Monthly from July, 1861, to June, 1862, and it cannot be doubted
that with the education of his son before him, the remuneration would have been welcome. It
was not until nearly a year later that he conceived the idea of cutting his English Note-book
into sections, and publishing them as magazine articles.

From this time forth, one discouragement followed another. In the autumn of 1861 the illness
of his daughter, which he had expected and predicted, came to pass in a violent form. The old
Roman virus, kept under in her blood, for a time, by continual changes of air and climate,
at last gained the mastery, and brought her once more in danger of her life. She had to be
removed to the house of her aunt, Mrs. Mann, who lived in the centre of the town, on account
of her father's nerves, so that the Concord doctor could attend her at night when necessary.
It was the severest and most protracted case of fever that the physician had ever known to
be followed by a recovery. Miss Una did recover, but the mental strain upon her father was
even more exhausting than that which her previous illness had caused, and he was not in an
equal condition to bear it.

"Septimius Felton" may have been written about this time (perhaps during his daughter's convalescence),
but his family knew nothing of it, until they discovered the manuscript after his death. When
it was published ten years later, the poet Whittier spoke of it as a failure, and Hawthorne
would seem to have considered it so; for he left it in an unfinished condition, and immediately
began a different story on the same theme,--the elixir of life. It has no connection with the
sketch already mentioned, in which Alcott's personality becomes the mainspring, but with another
abortive romance, called "The Ancestral Footstep," which Hawthorne commenced while he was in
England. It is invaluable for the light it throws on his method of working. Descriptive passages
are mentioned in it "to be inserted" at a later time, meanwhile concentrating his energy on
more important portions of the narrative. Half way through the story he changed his original
plan, transforming the young woman who previously had been Septimius's sweetheart to Septimius's
sister; and it may have been the difficulty of adjusting this change to the portion previously
written, that discouraged Hawthorne from completing the romance. But the work suffers also
from a tendency to exaggeration. The name of Hagburn is unpleasantly realistic, and Doctor
Portsoaken, with his canopy of spider-webs hanging in noisome festoons above his head, is closely
akin to the repulsive. The amateur critic who averred that he could not read Hawthorne without
feeling a sensation as if cobwebs were drawn across his face, must have had "Septimius Felton"
in mind. Yet there are refreshing passages in it, and the youthful English officer who kisses
Septimius's sweetheart before his eyes, and afterward fights an impromptu duel with him, dying
as cheerfully as he had lived, is an original and charming character. The scene of the story
has a peculiar interest, from the fact that it is laid at Hawthorne's own door; the Feltons
are supposed to have lived at the Wayside and the Hagburns in the Alcott house.

The firm of Ticknor & Fields now began to feel anxious on Hawthorne's account, and the last
of the winter the senior partner proposed a journey to Washington, which was accordingly accomplished
in the second week of March. Horatio Bridge was now chief of a bureau in the Navy Department,
and was well qualified to obtain for his veteran friend an inside position for whatever happened
to be going on. In the midst of the turmoil and excitement of war, Hawthorne attracted as much
attention as the arrival of a new ambassador from Great Britain. Secretary Stanton appointed
him on a civil commission to report concerning the condition of the Army of the Potomac. He
was introduced to President Lincoln, and made excursions to Harper's Ferry and Fortress Monroe.
Concerning General McClellan, he wrote to his daughter on March 16:

"The outcry opened against Gen. McClellan, since the enemy's retreat from Manassas, is really
terrible, and almost universal; because it is found that we might have taken their fortifications
with perfect ease six months ago, they being defended chiefly by wooden guns. Unless he achieves
something wonderful within a week, he will be removed from command, at least I hope so; I never
did more than half believe in him. By a message from the State Department, I have reason to
think that there is money enough due me from the government to pay the expenses of my journey.
I think the public buildings are as fine, if not finer, than anything we saw in Europe." [Footnote:
J. Hawthorne, ii. 309.]

General McClellan was not a great man, and Hawthorne's opinion of him is more significant from
the fact that at that time McClellan was expected to be the Joshua who would lead the Democratic
party out of its wilderness. On his return to Concord, Hawthorne prepared a commentary on what
he had seen and heard at the seat of war, and sent it to the Atlantic Monthly; but, although
patriotic enough, his melancholy humor was prominent in it, and Fields particularly protested
against his referring to President Lincoln as "Old Abe," although the President was almost
universally called so in Washington; and the consequence of this was that Hawthorne eliminated
everything that he had written about Lincoln in his account,--which might be called "dehamletizing"
the subject. In addition to this he wrote a number of foot-notes purporting to come from the
editor, but really intended to counteract the unpopularity of certain statements in the text.
This was not done with any intention to deceive, but, with the exception of Emerson and a few
others who could always recognize Hawthorne's style, the readers of the Atlantic supposed that
these foot-notes were written by either James T. Fields or James Russell Lowell, who had been
until recently the editor of the Magazine,--a practical joke which Hawthorne enjoyed immensely
when it was discovered to him.

This contribution, essay, or whatever it may be called, had only a temporary value, but it
contained a prediction, which has been often recollected in Hawthorne's favor; namely, that
after the war was over "one bullet-headed general after another would succeed to the presidential
chair." In fact, five generals, whether bullet-headed or not, followed after Lincoln and Johnson;
and then the sequence came to an end apparently because the supply of politician generals was
exhausted. Certainly the Anglo-Saxon race yields to no other in admiration for military glory.

Fields afterward published Hawthorne's monograph on President Lincoln, and, although it is
rather an unsympathetic statement of the man, it remains the only authentic pen-and-ink sketch
that we have of him. Most important is his recognition of Lincoln as "essentially a Yankee"
in appearance and character; for it has only recently been discovered that Lincoln was descended
from an old New England family, and that his ancestors first emigrated to Virginia and afterward
to Kentucky. [Footnote: Essay on Lincoln in "True Republicanism."] Hawthorne says of him:

"If put to guess his calling and livelihood, I should have taken him for a country schoolmaster
as soon as anything else. [Footnote: "Yesterdays with Authors," 99.]

This is not a flattered portrait, like those by Lincoln's political biographers; neither is
it an idealized likeness, such as we may imagine him delivering his Gettysburg Address. It
is rather an external description of the man, but it is, after all, Lincoln as he appeared
in the White House to the innumerable visitors, who, as sovereign American citizens, believed
they had a right to an interview with the people's distinguished servant.

Hawthorne's European letter-bag in 1862 is chiefly interesting for Henry Bright's statement
that the English people might have more sympathy with the Union cause in the War if they could
understand clearly what the national government was fighting for; and that Lord Houghton and
Thomas Hughes were the only two men he had met who heartily supported the Northern side. Perhaps
Mr. Bright would have found it equally as difficult to explain why the British Government should
have made war upon Napoleon for twelve consecutive years.

Henry Bright, moreover, seemed to be quite as much interested in a new American poet, named
J. G. Holland, and his poem called "Bitter-Sweet." Lord Houghton agreed with him that it was
a very remarkable poem, and they wished to know what Hawthorne could tell them about its author.
As Holland was not recognized as a poet by the Saturday Club, Hawthorne's answer on this point
would be very valuable if we could only obtain a sight of it. Holland was in certain respects
the counterpart of Martin F. Tupper.

In the summer of this year Hawthorne went to West Goldsboro', Maine, an unimportant place opposite
Mount Desert Island, taking Julian with him; a place with a stimulating climate but a rather
foggy atmosphere. He must have gone there for his health, and it is pathetic to see how the
change of climate braced him up at first, so that he even made the commencement of a new diary,
and then, as always happens in such cases, it let him down again to where he was before. He
did not complain, but he felt that something was wrong with him and he could not tell what it was.

Wherever he went in passing through the civilized portion of Maine, he found the country astir
with recruits who had volunteered for the war, so that it seemed as if that were the only subject
which occupied men's minds. He says of this in his journal:

"I doubt whether any people was ever actuated by a more genuine and disinterested public spirit;
though, of course, it is not unalloyed with baser motives and tendencies. We met a train of
cars with a regiment or two just starting for the South, and apparently in high spirits. Everywhere
some insignia of soldiership were to be seen,-- bright buttons, a red stripe down the trousers,
a military cap, and sometimes a round-shouldered bumpkin in the entire uniform. They require
a great deal to give them the aspect of soldiers; indeed, it seems as if they needed to have
a good deal taken away and added, like the rough clay of a sculptor as it grows to be a model."

Such is the last entry in his journal. Hawthorne was not carried off his feet by the excitement
of the time, but looked calmly on while others expended their patriotism in hurrahing for the
Union. What he remarks concerning the volunteers was perfectly true Men cannot change their
profession in a day, and soldiers are not to be made out of farmers' boys and store clerks
simply by clothing them in uniform, no matter how much courage they may have. War is a profession
like other professions, and requires the severest training of them all.

CHAPTER XVIII

IMMORTALITY

In the autumn of 1862 there was great excitement in Massachusetts. President Lincoln had issued
his premonitory proclamation of emancipation, and Harvard College was stirred to its academic
depths. Professor Joel Parker, of the Law School, pronounced Lincoln's action unconstitutional,
subversive of the rights of property, and a most dangerous precedent. With Charles Eliot Norton
and other American Tories, Parker headed a movement for the organization of a People's Party,
which had for its immediate object the defeat of Andrew for Governor and the relegation of
Sumner to private life. The first they could hardly expect to accomplish, but it was hoped
that a sufficient number of conservative representatives would be elected to the Legislature
to replace Sumner by a Republican, who would be more to their own minds; and they would be
willing to compromise on such a candidate as Honorable E. R. Hoar,--although Judge Hoar was
innocent of this himself and was quite as strongly anti-slavery as Sumner. The movement came
to nothing, as commonly happens with political movements that originate in universities, but
for the time being it caused a great commotion and nowhere more so than in the town of Concord.
Emerson was never more emphatic than in demanding the re-election of Andrew and Sumner.

How Hawthorne felt about this and how he voted in November, can only be conjectured by certain
indications, slight, it is true, but all pointing in one direction. As long since explained,
he entertained no very friendly feeling toward the Cotton Whigs; his letter to his daughter
concerning Gen. McClellan, who set himself against the proclamation and was removed in consequence,
should be taken into consideration; and still more significant is the letter to Horatio Bridge,
in which Hawthorne proposed the enlistment of negro soldiers. Doctor George B. Loring, of Salem,
always a loyal friend to the Hawthorne family, came to Concord in September to deliver an address
at the annual cattle-show, and visited at the Wayside. He had left the Democratic party and
become a member of the Bird Club, which was then the centre of political influence in the State.
As a matter of course he explained his new position to Hawthorne. He had long felt attracted
to the Republican party, and but for his influential position among his fellow-Democrats, he
would have joined it sooner. Parties were being reconstructed. Half the Democrats had become
Republicans; and a considerable portion of the Whigs had joined the Democratic party. The interests
of the Republic were in the hands of the Republican party and it ought to be supported. We
can believe that Hawthorne listened to him with close attention.

It was in the spring of 1862 that I first became well acquainted with the Hawthorne family,
which seemed to exist in an atmosphere of purity and refinement derived from the man's own
genius. Julian visited me at our house in Medford during the early summer, where he made great
havoc among the small fruits of the season. We boxed, fenced, skated, played cricket and studied
Cicero together. As my father was one of the most revolutionary of the Free-Soilers, this may
have amused Hawthorne as an instance of the Montagues and Capulets; but I found much sympathy
with my political notions in his household. When the first of January came there was a grand
celebration of the Emancipation in Boston Music Hall. Mrs. Hawthorne and Una were very desirous
to attend it, and I believe they both did so--Miss Una at all events. If Mrs. Hawthorne's opinions
could be taken in any sense as a reflection of her husband's mind, he was certainly drifting
away from his old associations.

In October, 1862, Hawthorne published the first of a series of studies from English life and
scenery, taken chiefly from his Note-book, and he continued this at intervals until the following
summer, when Ticknor & Fields brought them out with some additions in book form as "Our Old
Home;" a volume which has already been considered in these pages. It was not a favorable time
for the publication of classic literature, for the whole population of the United States was
in a ferment; and moreover the unfriendly attitude of the English educated classes toward the
cause of the Union, was beginning to have its effect with us. In truth it seemed rather inconsistent
that the philanthropic Gladstone, who had always professed himself the friend of freedom, should
glorify Jefferson Davis as the founder of a new nation--a republic of slaveholders. In addition
to this, Hawthorne insisted on dedicating the volume to President Pierce, and when his publishers
protested that this would tend to make the book unpopular, he replied in a spirited manner,
that if that was the case it was all the more reason why Pierce's friends should signify their
continued confidence in him. This may have made little difference, however, for comparatively
few readers notice the dedication of a book until after they have purchased it; and we like
Hawthorne for his firmness in this instance.

In England the book produced a sensation of the unfavorable sort. Hawthorne's attack on the
rotundity of the English ladies, whatever may have been his reason for it, was, to speak reservedly,
somewhat lacking in delicacy. It stirred up a swarm of newspaper enemies against him; and proved
a severe strain to the attachment of his friends there. Henry Bright wrote to him:

"It really was too bad, some of the things you say. You talk like a cannibal. Mrs. Heywood
says to my mother, 'I really believe you and I were the only ladies he knew in Liverpool, and
we are not like beefsteaks.' So all the ladies are furious." [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 280.
Good Mrs. Alcott also objected stoutly to the reflections on her sex.]

But Hawthorne was no longer what he had been, and allowance should be made for this.

Hawthorne's chief interest at this time, however, lay in the preparation of his son for Harvard
College. Julian was sixteen in August and, considering the itinerant life he had lived, well
advanced in his studies. He was the best-behaved boy in Concord, in school or out, and an industrious
though not ambitious scholar. He was strong, vigorous and manly; and his parents had sufficient
reason to be proud of him. To expect him, however, to enter Harvard College at the age of seventeen
was somewhat unreasonable. His father had entered Bowdoin at that age, but the requirements
at Harvard were much more severe than at Bowdoin; enough to make a difference of at least one
year in the age of the applicant. For a boy to enter college in a half-fitted condition is
simply to make a false start in life, for he is only too likely to become discouraged, and
either to drag along at the foot of the class or to lose his place in it altogether. Hawthorne
may have felt that the end of earthly affairs was close upon him, and wished to see his son
started on the right road before that came; but Emerson also had an interest in having Julian
go to college at exactly this time; namely, to obtain him as a chum for his wife's nephew,
with the advantage of a tutor's room thrown in as an extra inducement. He advised Hawthorne
to place Julian in charge of a Harvard professor who was supposed to have a sleight-of-hand
faculty for getting his pupils through the examinations. Julian worked bravely, and succeeded
in entering Harvard the following July; but he was nine months (or a good school year), younger
than the average of his class.

Hawthorne did not leave home this summer (1863), and the only letter we have of his was the
one to James T. Fields concerning the dedication of "Our Old Home," which was published in
the autumn. Julian states that his father spent much of his time standing or walking in his
narrow garden before the house, and looking wistfully across the meadows to Walden woods. His
strength was evidently failing him, yet he could not explain why--nor has it ever been explained.

One bright day in November two of us walked up from Cambridge with Julian and lunched at his
father's. Mr. Hawthorne received us cordially, but in a tremulous manner that betrayed the
weakness of his nerves. As soon as Julian had left the room, he said to us, "I suppose it would
be of little use to ask you young gentlemen what sort of a scholar Julian is." H---- replied
to this, that we were neither of us in the division with him, but that he had heard nothing
unfavorable in regard to his recitations; and I told him that Julian went to the gymnasium
with me every evening, and appeared to live a very regular kind of life. This seemed to please
Mr. Hawthorne very much, and he soon produced a decanter of port, and, his son having entered
the room again, he said, "I want to teach Julian the taste of good wine, so that he will learn
to avoid those horrible punches, which I am told you have at Harvard." We all laughed greatly
at this, which was afterward increased by Julian's saying that the only punches he had yet
seen were those which the sophomores gave us in the foot-ball fight,--or some such statement.
It was a bright occasion for all of us, and when Mrs. Hawthorne and her daughters entered the
room, such a beautiful group as they all formed together! And Hawthorne himself seemed ten
years younger than when he first greeted us.

He was the most distinguished-looking man that I ever beheld, and no sensible person could
meet him without instantly recognizing his superior mental endowment. His features were not
only classic but grandly classic; and his eyes large, dark, luminous, unfathomable-- looking
into them was like looking into a deep well. His face seemed to give a pictorial reflection
of whatever was taking place about him; and again became like a transparency through which
one could see dim vistas of beautiful objects. The changes of expression on it were like the
sunshine and clouds of a summer day--perhaps thunder clouds sometimes, with flashes of lightning,
which his son may still remember; for where there is a great heart there will always be great heat.

"THE DOLLIVER ROMANCE"

According to James T. Fields, the ground-plan of this work was laid the preceding winter, but
Hawthorne became dissatisfied with the way in which the subject developed itself and so set
the manuscript aside until he could come to it again with fresh inspiration. With the more
bracing weather of September he commenced on it again, and wrote during the next two months
that portion which we now have. On December 1 he forwarded two chapters to Ticknor & Fields,
requesting to have them set up so that he could see them in print and obtain a retrospective
view of his work before he proceeded further. Yet on December 15 he wrote again, saying that
he had not yet found courage to attack the proofs, and that all mental exertion had become
hateful to him. [Footnote: "Yesterdays with Authors," 115.] He was evidently feeling badly,
and for the first time Mrs. Hawthorne was seriously anxious for him. Four days later she wrote
to Una, who was visiting in Beverly:

"Papa is comfortable to-day, but very thin and pale and weak. I give him oysters now. Hitherto
he has had only toasted crackers and lamb and beef tea. I am very impatient that he should
see Dr. Vanderseude, but he wants to go to him himself, and he cannot go till it be good weather....
The splendor and pride of strength in him have succumbed; but they can be restored, I am sure.
Meanwhile he is very nervous and delicate; he cannot bear anything, and he must be handled
like the airiest Venetian glass." [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, ii. 333.]

He divided his time between lying on a sofa and sitting in an arm- chair; and he did not seem
very comfortable in either position. It was long since he had attended meetings of the Saturday
Club.

It is clear from this that Hawthorne had not recently consulted a doctor concerning his condition,
and perhaps not at all. He may have been right enough in supposing that no common practitioner
could give him help, but there was at that time one of the finest of physiologists in Boston,
Dr. Edward H. Clark, who cured hundreds of sick people every year, as quietly and unostentatiously
as Dame Nature herself. He was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, and as such not
generally looked upon with favor by the Boston medical profession, but when Agassiz's large
brain gave way in 1868, Dr. Brown-Sequard telegraphed to him from Europe to consult Edward
Clark, and Doctor Clark so improved his health that Agassiz afterward enjoyed a number of years
of useful work. Perhaps he might have accomplished as much for Hawthorne; but how was Hawthorne
in his retired and uncommunicative life to know of him? There are decided advantages in living
in the great world, and in knowing what goes on there,--if one only can.

It is doubtful if Hawthorne ever opened the proof of "The Dolliver Romance." In February he
wrote to Fields that he could not possibly go on with it, and as it had already been advertised
for the Atlantic Monthly, a notification had to be published concerning the matter, which startled
Longfellow, Whittier and other old friends of Hawthorne, who were not in the way of knowing
much about him. The fragment that we now have of it was printed in the Atlantic many years
after his death.

It was the last expiring ember of Hawthorne's genius, blazing up fitfully and momentarily with
the same brightness as of old, and then disappearing like Hawthorne himself into the unknown
and the unknowable. It is a fragment, and yet it seems complete, for it is impossible to imagine
how the story could have been continued beyond its present limits; and Hawthorne left no word
from which we can conjecture his further intentions in regard to it.

There was an old apothecary in Concord, named Reynolds, a similar man to, but not so aged as,
Hawthorne's Doctor Dolliver; and he also had a son, a bright enterprising boy,--too bright
and spirited to suit Boston commercialism,--who went westward in 1858 to seek his fortune,
nor have I ever heard of his return. The child Pansie, frisking with her kitten --a more simple,
ingenuous, and self-centred, but also less sympathetic nature than the Pearl of Hester Prynne--may
have been studied from Hawthorne's daughter Rose. There also lived at Concord in Hawthorne's
time a man with the title of Colonel, a pretentious, self-satisfied person, who corresponded
fairly to his description of Colonel Dabney, in "The Dolliver Romance." Neither is it singular
that the apothecary's garden should have bordered on a grave-yard, for there are two old cemeteries
in Concord in the very centre of the town.

I know of no such portrait of an old man as Doctor Dolliver in art or literature,--except perhaps
Tintoretto's portrait of his aged self, in the Louvre. We not only see the customary marks
of age upon him, but we feel them so that it seems as if we grew old and stiff and infirm as
we read of him; and the internal life of old age is revealed to us, not by confessions of the
man himself, but by every word he speaks and every act he does as if the writer were a skilful
tragedian upon the stage. It seems as if Hawthorne must have felt all this himself during the
last year of his life, to describe it so vividly; but he ascends by these infirm steps to loftier
heights than ever before, and the scene in which he represents Doctor Dolliver seated at night
before the fire in his chamber after Pansie had been put to bed, is the noblest passage in
the whole cycle of Hawthorne's art; one of those rare passages written in moments of gifted
insight, when it seems as if a higher power guided the writer's hand. It is given here entire,
for to subtract a word from it would be an irreparable injury.

So Jacob in the desert saw angels descending and ascending on a ladder from Heaven. Discouraged,
depressed, the door closed upon his earthly hopes, not only for himself, but for those whom
he loves much better than himself, so far as he could ever be a help and a providence to them,
Hawthorne finds a purer joy and a higher hope in the depths of his own spirit.

In the second chapter, or fragment, of this romance, Doctor Dolliver, followed by Pansie, goes
out into the garden one frosty October morning, and while the apothecary is digging at his
herbs, the imitative child, with an instinctive repulsion for everything strange and morbid,
pulls up the fatal plant from which the elixir of life was distilled, and frightened at her
grandfather's chiding, runs with it into the cemetery where it is lost among the graves and
never seen again. This account stands by itself, having no direct connection with what precedes
or follows; but the delineation is so vivid, the poetic element in it so strong, that it may
be said to stand without assistance, and does not require the name of Hawthorne to give it value.

In the conclusion, the elixir of life proves to be an elixir of death; extremes meet and are
reconciled. As he says in "The Marble Faun," joy changes to sorrow and sorrow is laughed away;
the experience of both being that which is really valuable. Doctor Dolliver and Pansie are
figures for the end and the beginning of life; the Old Year and the New. Such is the sum of
Hawthorne's philosophy--the ultimate goal of his thought. There could have been no more fitting
consummation of his work. The cycle of his art is complete, and death binds the laurel round
his brow.

A HERO'S END

After Hawthorne's letter of February 25, Fields felt that he ought to make an effort in his
behalf. Fields's partner, W. D. Ticknor, was also ailing, and it was arranged that he and Hawthorne
should go on a journey southward as soon as the weather permitted. Doctor Holmes was consulted,
and the last of March Hawthorne came to Boston and met Holmes at Fields's house. Holmes made
an examination, which was anything but satisfactory to his own mind; in fact, he was appalled
at the condition in which he found his former companion of the Saturday Club. "He was very
gentle," Holmes says; "very willing to answer questions, very docile to such counsel as I offered
him, but evidently had no hope of recovering his health. He spoke as if his work were done,
and he should write no more." [Footnote: Atlantic Monthly, July, 1864.] The doctor, however,
must have been mistaken in supposing that Hawthorne was suffering from the same malady that
carried off General Grant, for no human being could die in that manner without suffering greater
pain than Hawthorne gave any indication of; and the sedatives which Holmes prescribed for him
could only have resulted in a weakening of the nerves. He even warned Hawthorne against the
use of alcoholic stimulants, to which for some time he had been more or less accustomed.

Hawthorne and Ticknor went to New York, and two days later Ticknor was able to write to Mrs.
Hawthorne that her husband appeared to be much improved. How cruelly disappointing to meet
him at their own door four days later, haggard, weary and more dispirited than when he had
left the Wayside on March 26! He had proceeded to Philadelphia with Ticknor, and there at the
Continental Hotel Ticknor was suddenly seized with a mortal malady and died almost in Hawthorne's
arms, before the latter could notify his family in Boston that he was ill. What a severe ordeal
for a man who was strong and well, but to a person in Hawthorne's condition it was like a thunderbolt.
Ticknor's son came to him at once, and together they performed the necessary duties of the
occasion, and made their melancholy way homeward. Nothing, perhaps, except a death in his own
family, could have had so unfavorable an effect upon Hawthorne's condition.

Some good angel now notified Franklin Pierce of the serious posture of affairs, and he came
at once to Concord to offer his services in Hawthorne's behalf. However, he could propose nothing
more hopeful than a journey in the uplands of New Hampshire, and for this it would be necessary
to wait for settled weather. So Hawthorne remained at home for the next month without his condition
becoming apparently either better or worse. At length, on May 13, the ex-President returned
and they went together the following day.

We will not linger over that leave-taking on the porch of the Wayside; so pathetic, so full
of tenderness, even of despair, and yet with a slender ray of hope beneath the leaden cloud
of anxiety. To Hawthorne it must have seemed even more discouraging than to his wife and children,
though none of them could have suspected that the end would be so soon.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the morning of May 20, I had just returned from my first recitation when Julian Hawthorne
appeared at my room in the Massachusetts dormitory, and said, like a man gasping for breath,
"My father is dead, and I want you to come with me." Fields had sent him word through Professor
Gurney, who knew how to deliver such a message in the kindliest manner. We went at once to
Fields's house on Charles Street, where Mrs. Fields gave Julian the little information already
known to them through a dispatch from Franklin Pierce,--that his father died during his sleep
in the night of May 18, at the Pemmigewasset House, Plymouth, New Hampshire. After this we
wandered about Boston, silent and aimless, until the afternoon train carried him to Concord.
He greatly dreaded meeting the gaze of his fellow-townsmen, and confessed that he wanted to
hide himself in the woods like a wounded deer. [Footnote: The passage in "A Fool of Nature,"
in which he describes Murgatroyd's discovery of his father's death, must have been a reminiscence
of this time--a passage of the finest genius.]

On Wednesday, May 18, Hawthorne and Pierce drove from Centre Harbor to Plymouth, a long and
rather rough journey to be taken in a carriage. Hawthorne, however, did not make much complaint
of this, nor did he seem to be unusually fatigued. He retired to his room soon after nine o'clock,
and was sleeping comfortably an hour later. Pierce was evidently nervous about him, for he
went in to look at him at two in the morning, and again at four; and the last time he discovered
that life was extinct. Hawthorne had died in his sleep as quietly and peacefully as he had
lived. There is the same mystery in his death that there was in his life, and it is difficult
to assign either an immediate or a proximate cause for it. With such a physique, and his simple,
regular habits of life, he ought to have reached the age of ninety. General Pierce believed
that he died of paralysis, and that is the most probable explanation; but it was not like the
usual cases of paralysis at Hawthorne's age; for, as we have seen, the process of disintegration
and failure of his powers had been going on for years. Nor did this follow, as commonly happens,
a protracted period of adversity, but it came upon him during the most prosperous portion of
his life. The first ten years following upon his marriage were years of anxiety, self-denial
and even hardship; but other men, Alcott, for example, have suffered as much and yet lived
to a good old age. It may have been "the old dull pain" which Longfellow associated with him,
filing perpetually on the vital cord. It was part of the enigmatic side of his nature.

The last ceremonies of respect to the earthly remains of Hawthorne were performed at Concord
on May 23, 1864, in the Unitarian Church, a commodious building, [Footnote: In 1899 this building
was burned to the ground, and a new church has been erected on the same spot.] well adapted
to the great concourse of mourners who gathered there on this occasion. Reverend James Freeman
Clarke, who had united Hawthorne and Sophia Peabody in marriage twenty-two years before, was
now called upon to preside over the last act in their married life. The simple eloquence of
his address penetrated to the heart of every person present. "Hawthorne had achieved a twofold
immortality,--and his immortality on earth would be a comforting presence to all who mourned
him. The noblest men of the age had gathered there, to testify to his worth as a man as well
as to his genius as a writer." Faces were to be seen in that assembly that were never beheld
in Concord before. Among these was the soldierly figure and flashing eye of the poet Whittier.
Longfellow, Emerson, Lowell, Agassiz, Alcott and Hillard were present; and ex-President Pierce
shook hands with Judge Hoar over Hawthorne's bier. After the services the assembly of mourners
proceeded to Sleepy Hollow cemetery, and there the mortal remains of Hawthorne were buried
under the pine trees on the same hill-side where he and Emerson and Margaret Fuller conversed
together on the summer afternoon twenty years before. He needs no monument, for he has found
a place in the universal pantheon of art and literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would seem advisable at this parting of the ways to say something of Hawthorne's religious
convictions. He went as a boy with his mother and sisters to the East Church in Salem, a society
of liberal tendencies and then on the verge of Unitarianism. All the Manning family attended
service there, but at a later time Robert Manning separated from it and joined an orthodox
society. Hawthorne's mother and his sister Louisa became Unitarians, and at Madam Hawthorne's
death in 1848 the funeral services were conducted by Reverend Thomas T. Stone, of the First
Salem Church. It is presumable that Nathaniel Hawthorne also became a Unitarian, so far as
he can be considered a sectarian at all; but certain elements of the older faith still remained
in his mental composition. It cannot be questioned that the strong optimism in Emerson's philosophy
was derived from Doctor Channing's instruction, and it is equally certain that Hawthorne could
never agree to this. Whatever might be the origin of evil or its abstract value, he found it
too potent an element in human affairs to be quietly reasoned out of existence. Whatever might
be the ultimate purpose of Divine Providence, the witchcraft prosecutions were an awful calamity
to those who were concerned in them. In this respect he resembled David A. Wasson, one of the
most devout religious minds, who left the church of Calvin (as it was in his time), without
ever becoming a Unitarian or a radical. Miss Rebecca Manning says:

"I never knew of Hawthorne's going to church at all, after I remember about him, and do not
think he was ever in the habit of going. I think he may have gone sometimes when he was in
England, but I do not know about it. Somewhere in Julian or Rose Hawthorne's reminiscences,
there is mention made of his reading family prayers, when he was in England. He, as also his
mother and sisters were people of deeply religious natures, though not always showing it by
outward observances."

A Concord judge and an old Free-Soil politician once attended a religious convention, and after
the business of the day was over they went to walk together. The politician confessed to the
judge that he had no very definite religious belief, for which the judge thought he did himself
great injustice; but is not that the most advanced and intelligent condition of a man's religious
faith? How can we possess clear and definite ideas of the grand mystery of Creation? Consider
only this simple metaphysical fact, that space has no limit, and that we can neither conceive
a beginning of time nor imagine time without a beginning. What is there outside of the universe?
The brain reels as we think of it. The time has gone by when a man can say to himself definitely,
I believe this or I believe that; but we know at least that we, "the creature of a day," cannot
be the highest form of intelligence in this wonderful world. We thought that we lived in solid
bodies, but electric rays have been discovered by which the skeletons inside of us become visible.
The correlation and conservation of forces brings us very close to the origin of all force;
and yet in another sense we are as far off as ever from the perception of it.

This would seem to have been also Hawthorne's position in regard to religious faith. What do
we know of the religious belief of Michel Angelo, of Shakespeare, or of Beethoven? We cannot
doubt that they were sincerely and purely religious men; but neither of them made any confession
of their faith. Vittoria Colonna may have known something of Michel Angelo's belief, but Vasari
does not mention it; and Beethoven confessed it was a subject that he did not like to talk
about. The deeper a man's sense of the awe and mystery which underlies Nature, the less he
feels inclined to expose it to the public gaze. Hawthorne's own family did not know what his
religious opinions were--only that he was religious. One may imagine that the reticent man
would be more reticent on this subject than on any other; but we can feel confident that at
least he was not a sceptic, for the confirmed sceptic inevitably becomes a chatterer. He walks
to Walden Pond with Hillard and Emerson on Sunday, and confesses his doubts as to the utility
of the Church (in its condition at that time), for spiritual enlightenment; but in regard to
the great omnipresent fact of spirituality he has no doubt. In "The Snow Image" he makes a
statue come to life, and says in conclusion that if a new miracle is ever wrought in this world
it will be in some such simple manner as he has described.

To the poetic mind, which is after all the highest form of intellect, the grand fact of existence
is a sufficient miracle. The rising of the sun, the changes of the seasons, the blooming of
flowers and the ripening of the grain, were all miracles to Hawthorne, and none the less so
because they are continually being repeated. The scientists tell us that all these happen according
to natural laws: perfectly true, but WHO was it that made those laws? WHO is it that keeps
the universe running? Laws made for the regulation of human affairs by the wisest of men often
prove ineffective, and inadequate to the purpose for which they were intended; but the laws
of Nature work with unfailing accuracy. The boy solves his problem in algebra, finding out
the unknown quantity by those values which are given him; and can we not also infer something
of the unknown from the great panorama that passes unceasingly before us? The one thing that
Hawthorne could not have understood was, how gifted minds like Lucretius and Auguste Comte
could recognize only the evidence of their senses, and deliberately blind themselves to the
evidence of their intellects. He who denies the existence of mind as a reality resembles a
person looking for his spectacles when they are on his nose; but it is the imagination of the
poet that leads civilization onward to its goal.

College life is rather generally followed by a period of scepticism, partly owing in former
times to the enforced attendance at morning prayers, and still more perhaps to the study of
Greek and Latin authors. During what might be called Hawthorne's period of despair, he could
not very well have obtained consolation from the traditional forms of divine worship; at least,
such has been the experience of all those who have passed through the Wertherian stage, so
far as we know of them. It is a time when every man has to strike the fountain of spiritual
life out of the hard rock of his own existence; and those are fortunate who, like Moses and
Hawthorne, strike forcibly enough to accomplish this. It is the "new birth from above," in
the light of which religious forms seem of least importance.

One effect of matrimony is commonly a deepening of religious feeling, but it is not surprising
that Hawthorne should not have attended church after his marriage. His wife had not been accustomed
to church-going, on account of the uncertainty of her health; the Old Manse was a long distance
from the Concord tabernacle; Hawthorne's associates in Concord, with the exception of Judge
Keyes, were not in the habit of going to church; and the officiating minister, both at that
time and during his later sojourn, was not a person who could have been intellectually attractive
to him. Somewhat similar reasons may have interfered with his attendance after his return to
Salem; and during the last fifteen years of his life, he was too much of a wanderer to take
a serious interest in the local affairs of the various places he inhabited; but he was desirous
that his children should go to church and should be brought up in honest Christian ways.

Little more need to be said concerning Hawthorne's character as a man. It was not so perfect
as Longfellow's, to whom all other American authors should bow the head in this respect--the
Washington of poets; and yet it was a rare example of purity, refinement, and patient endurance.
His faults were insignificant in comparison with his virtues, and the most conspicuous of them,
his tendency to revenge himself for real or fancied injuries, is but a part of the natural
instinct in us to return the blows we receive in self-defence. Wantonly, and of his own accord,
he never injured human being. His domestic life was as pure and innocent as that which appeared
before the world; and Mrs. Hawthorne once said of him in my presence that she did not believe
he ever committed an act that could properly be considered wrong. It was like his writing,
and his "wells of English undefiled" were but as a synonym for the clear current of his daily
existence.

The ideality in Hawthorne's face was so conspicuous that it is recognizable in every portrait
of him. It was not the cold visionary expression of the abstract thinker, but a human poetic
intelligence, which resolved all things into a spiritual alembic of its own. It is this which
elevates him above all writers who only deal with the outer world as they find it, and add
nothing to it from their own natures.

George Brandes, the Danish critic and essayist, speaks of Hawthorne somewhere as "the baby
poet;" but we suspect that if he had ever met the living Hawthorne, he would have stood very
much in awe of him. It would not have been like meeting Ernest Renan or John Stuart Mill. Although
Hawthorne was not splenetic or rash, there was an occasional look in his eye which a prudent
person might beware of. He was emphatically a man of courage.

The wide and liberal interest which German scholars and writers have so long taken in the literature
of other nations, has resulted in founding an informal literary tribunal in Germany, to which
the rest of the world is accustomed to appeal. A. E. Schonbach, one of the most recent German
writers on universal literature, gives his impression of Hawthorne in the following statement:

"I find the distinguishing excellence of Hawthorne's imaginative writings in the union of profound,
keen, psychological development of characters and problems with the most lucid objectivity
and a joyous modern realism. Occasionally there appears a light and delicate humor, sometimes
hidden in a mere adjective, or little phrase which lights up the gloomiest situation with a
gentle ray of hope. Far from unimportant do I rate the charm of his language, its purity, its
melody, its graceful flexibility, the wealth of vocabulary, the polish which rarely betrays
the touch of the file. After, or with George Eliot, Hawthorne is the first English prose writer
of our century. At the same time he sacrifices nothing of his peculiar American quality. Not
only does he penetrate into the most secret inner movements of the old colonial life, as no
one else has done, and reproduces the spirit of his forefathers with a power of intuition which
no historical work could equal; but in all his other works, from the biography of General Pierce,
to the 'Marble Faun,' Hawthorne shows the freshness and keenness, the precision and lucidity,
and other qualities not easy to describe, which belong to American literature. He is its chief
representative." [Footnote: "Gesammelte Aufsatze zur neueren Litteratur," p. 346.]

Hawthorne has always been accorded a high position in literature, and as time goes on I believe
this will be increased rather than diminished. In beauty of diction he is the first of American
writers, and there are few that equal him in this respect in other languages. It is a pleasure
to read him, simply for his form of expression, and apart from the meaning which he conveys
in his sentences. It is like the grace of the Latin races,--like Dante and Chateaubriand; and
the adaptation of his words is so perfect that we never have to think twice for his meaning.
In those editions called the Elzevirs, which are so much prized by book collectors, the clearness
and legibility of the type result from such a fine proportion of space and line that no other
printer has succeeded in imitating it; and there is something similar to this in the construction
of Hawthorne's sentences.

He is the romance writer of the English language; and there is no form of literature which
the human race prizes more. How many translations there have been of "The Vicar of Wakefield,"
and of "The Sorrows of Werther"! The latter is not one of Goethe's best, and yet it made him
famous at the age of twenty-eight. The novel deals with what is new and surprising; the romance
with what is old and universal. In "The Vicar of Wakefield" we have the old story of virtue
outwitted by evil, which is in its turn outwitted by wisdom. There is nothing new in it except
the charming exposition which Goldsmith's genius has given to the subject. Thackeray ridiculed
"The Sorrows of Werther," and in the light of matured judgment the tale appears ridiculous;
but it strikes home to the heart, because we all learn wisdom through such experiences, of
which young Werther's is an extreme instance. It was only another example of the close relation
that subsists between comedy and tragedy.

It cannot be questioned that "The Scarlet Letter" ranks above "The Sorrows of Werther;" nor
is it less evident that "The Marble Faun" falls short of "Wilhelm Meister" and "Don Quixote."
[Footnote: See "Cervantes" in North American Review, May, 1905] Hawthorne's position, therefore,
lies between these two--nearer perhaps to "Werther" than to "Wilhelm Meister." In certain respects
he is surpassed by the great English novelists: Fielding, Scott, Thackeray, Dickens and Marian
Evans; but he in turn surpasses them all in the perfection and poetic quality of his art. There
is much poetry in Scott and Dickens, a little also in Thackeray and Miss Evans, but Hawthorne's
poetic vein has a more penetrating tone, and appeals more deeply than Scott's verses. If power
and versatility of characterization were to be the test of imaginative writing, Dickens would
push closely on to Shakespeare; but we do not go to Shakespeare to read about Hamlet or Falstaff,
or for the sake of the story, or even for his wisdom, but for the tout ensemble--to read Shakespeare.
Raphael painted a dozen or more pictures on the same subject, but they are all original, interesting
and valuable, because Raphael painted them. If it were not for the odd characters and variety
of incident in Dickens's novels they would hardly be worth reading. Hawthorne's dramatis persona
is not a long one, for his plots do not admit of it, but his characters are finely drawn, and
the fact that they have not become popular types is rather in their favor. There are Dombeys
and Shylocks in plenty, but who has ever met a Hamlet or a Rosalind in real life?

A certain English writer promulgated a list of the hundred superior authors of all times and
countries. There were no Americans in his catalogue, but he admitted that if the number was
increased to one hundred and eighteen Hawthorne and Emerson might be included in it. Doubtless
he had not heard of Webster or Alexander Hamilton, and many of his countrymen would be inclined
to place Longfellow before Emerson.

I have myself frequently counted over the great writers of all times and languages, weighing
their respective values carefully in my mind, but I have never been able to discover more than
thirty-five authors who seem to me decidedly superior to Hawthorne, nor above forty others
who might be placed on an equality with him. [Footnote: Appendix C.] This, of course, is only
an individual opinion, and should be accepted for what it is worth; but there are many ancient
writers, like Hesiod, Xenophon, and Catullus, whose chief value resides in their antiquity,
and a much larger number of modern authors, such as Balzac, Victor Hugo, Freytag, and Ruskin,
who have been over-estimated in their own time. Petrarch, and the author of "Gil Bias," might
be placed on a level with Hawthorne, but certainly not above him. Those whom he most closely
resembles in style and subject matter are Goldsmith, Manzoni, and Auerbach.

Yet Hawthorne is essentially a domestic writer,--a poetizer of the hearth-stone. Social life
is always the proper subject for works of fiction, and political life should never enter into
them, except as a subordinate element; but there is a border-land between the two, in which
politics and society act and react on each other, and it is from this field that the great
subjects for epic and dramatic poetry have always been reaped. Hawthorne only knew of this
by hearsay. Of the strenuous conflict that continually goes on in political centres like London
and New York, a struggle for wealth, for honor, and precedence; of plots and counterplots,
of foiled ambition and ruined reputations,-- with all this Hawthorne had but slight acquaintance.
We miss in him the masculine vigor of Fielding, the humanity of Dickens, and the trenchant
criticism of Thackeray; but he knew that the true poetry of life (at the present time) was
to be found in quiet nooks and in places far off from the turbulent maelstrom of humanity,
and in his own line he remains unrivalled.

PORTRAITS OF HAWTHORNE

Hawthorne had no more vanity in his nature than is requisite to preserve a good appearance
in public, but he always sat for his portrait when asked to do so, and this was undoubtedly
the most sensible way. He was first painted by Charles Osgood in 1840, a portrait which has
at least the merit of a fine poetic expression. He was afterward painted by Thompson, Healy,
and Emanuel Leutze, and drawn in crayon by Rowse and Eastman Johnson. Frances Osborne also
painted a portrait of him from photographs in 1893, an excellent likeness, and notable especially
for its far-off gaze. Of all these, Rowse's portrait is the finest work of art, for Rowse was
a man of genius, but there is a slight tendency to exaggeration in it, and it does not afford
so clear an idea of Hawthorne as he was, as the Osborne portrait. Healy was not very successful
with Hawthorne, and Miss Lander's bust has no merit whatever. The following list contains most
of the portraits and photographs of Hawthorne now known to exist, with their respective ownerships
and locations.

Oil portrait painted by Charles Osgood, in 1840. Owned by Mrs. Richard C. Manning.

Crayon portrait drawn by Eastman H. Johnson, in 1846. Owned by Miss Alice M. Longfellow.

Oil portrait painted by George P. A. Healy, in 1850. Now in the possession of Kirk Pierce, Esq.

Oil portrait by Miss H. Frances Osborne, after a photograph by Silsbee, Case & Co., Boston.

Crayon portrait drawn by Samuel W. Rowse, in 1866. Owned by Mrs. Annie Fields.

Engraving after the portrait painted in 1850 by Cephas G. Thompson. Owned by Hon. Henry C. Leach.

The Grolier Club bronze medallion, made in 1892, by Ringel d'Illzach. Owned by B. W. Pierson.

Cabinet photograph, bust, by Elliott & Fry, London. Owned by Mrs. Richard C. Manning.

Card photograph, full length, seated, with book in right hand, by Black & Case, Boston.

Cabinet photograph, three-quarter length, standing beside a pillar, copy by Mackintire of the
original photograph.

Card photograph, three-quarter length, seated, from Warren's Photographic Studio, Boston.

Card photograph, bust, by Brady, New York, with autographic signature. Owned by Hon. Henry
C. Leach.

Bust in the Concord (Massachusetts) Public Library, by Miss Louise Lander.

Card photograph, bust, from Warren's Photographic Studio, Boston. Owned by Mrs. Richard C. Manning.

Oil portrait by Emanuel Leutze, painted in April, 1852. Owned by Julian Hawthorne.

Photograph by Mayall, London. The so-called "Motley photograph."

Two photographs by Brady, full length; one seated, the other standing.

Photograph showing Hawthorne, Ticknor and Fields standing together.

Editions of Nathaniel Hawthorne's Books published under his own Direction

Fanshawe: A Tale, Boston, 1828.
Twice-Told Tales, Boston, 1837.
   Another edition, Boston, 1842.
Peter Parley's Universal History, Boston, 1837.
The Gentle Boy: A Thrice-Told Tale, Boston, 1839.
Grandfather's Chair: A History for Youth, Boston, 1841.
Famous Old People: or Grandfather's Chair II, Boston, 1841.
Liberty Tree: The Last Words of Grandfather's Chair, Boston, 1841.
Biographical Stories for Children, Boston, 1842.
Historical Tales for Youth, Boston, 1842.
The Celestial Railroad, Boston, 1843.
Mosses from an Old Manse, New York, 1846, 1851.
The Scarlet Letter, Boston, 1850.
True Stories from History and Biography, Boston, 1851.
The House of the Seven Gables, Boston, 1852.
A Wonder-Book for Girls and Boys, Boston, 1851.
   Another edition, Boston, 1857.
The Snow-Image and Other Tales, Boston, 1852.
   Another edition, Boston, 1857.
The Blithedale Romance, Boston, 1852.
Life of Franklin Pierce, Boston, 1852.
Tanglewood Tales for Girls and Boys, Boston, 1853.
Transformation, or the Romance of Monte Beni, Smith & Elder, London, 1860.
The Marble Faun, or the Romance of Monte Beni, Boston, 1860.
Our Old Home, Boston, 1863.

A complete list of Hawthorne's contributions to American magazines will be found in the appendix
to Conway's "Life of Hawthorne." 

Mrs. Emerson and Mrs. Hawthorne [Footnote: Read at the Emerson Club, at Boston, January 2, 1906]

In 1892, when I was constructing the volume known as "Sketches from Concord and Appledore,"
I said in comparing Emerson with Hawthorne that one was like day, and the other like night.
I was not aware that four years earlier M. D. Conway had made a similar statement in his Life
of Hawthorne, which was published in London. Miss Rebecca Manning, Hawthorne's own cousin,
still living at the age of eighty and an admirable old lady, distinctly confirms my statement,
that "wherever Hawthorne went he carried twilight with him." Emerson, on the contrary, was
of a sanguine temperament and an essentially sunny nature. His writings are full of good cheer,
and the opening of his Divinity School Address is as full of summer sunshine as the finest
July day. It was only necessary to see him look at the sunshine from his own porch to recognize
how it penetrated into the depths of his nature.

It would seem consistent with the rational order of things, that day should be supplemented
by night, and night again by day; and here we are almost startled by the completeness of our
allegory. We sometimes come across faces in the streets of a large city, which show by their
expression that they are more accustomed to artificial light than to the light of the sun.
Mrs. Emerson was one of these. She never seemed to be fully herself, until the lamps were lighted.
Her pale face seemed to give forth moonlight, and its habitual expression was much like that
of a Sister of Charity. It was said of her that she was the last in the house to retire at
night, always reading or busying herself with household affairs, until twelve or one o'clock;
but this mode of life would appear to have been suited to her organization, for in spite of
her colorless look she lived to be over ninety.

So far I can tread upon firm earth, without drawing upon my imagination, but in regard to Mrs.
Hawthorne I cannot speak with the same assurance, for I only became acquainted with her after
her husband's health had begun to fail, and the anxiety in her face was strongly marked; yet
I have reason to believe that her temperament was originally sanguine and optimistic, and that
she alternated from dreamy, pensive moods to bright vivacious ones. She certainly was very
different from her husband. Her sister, Elizabeth Peabody, was the most sanguine person of
her time, and her introduction of the kindergarten into America was accomplished through her
unbounded hopefulness. The Wayside, where Mrs. Hawthorne lived, has an extended southern exposure.
The house was always full of light, which is not often the case with New England country houses;
and when she lived at Liverpool, where sunshine is a rare commodity, she became unwell, so
that Mr. Hawthorne was obliged to send her to Madeira in order to avert a dangerous illness.

These two estimable ladies were alike in the excellence of their housekeeping, the purity of
their manners, their universal kindliness, and their devotion to the welfare of their husbands
and children. It was a pleasure to pass them on the road-side; the fare at their tables was
always of the nicest, even if it happened to be frugal; and people of all classes could have
testified to their helpful liberality. In these respects they might almost have served as models,
but otherwise they were as different as possible. Mrs. Emerson was of a tall, slender, and
somewhat angular figure (like her husband), but she presided at table with a grace and dignity
that quite justified his favorite epithet of "Queenie." There was even more of the Puritan
left in her than there was in him, and although she encouraged the liberal movements and tendencies
of her time, one always felt in her mental attitude the inflexibility of the moral law. To
her mind there was no shady border-land between right and wrong, but the two were separated
by a sharply defined line, which was never to be crossed, and she lived up to this herself,
and, in theory at least, she had but little mercy for sinners. On one occasion I was telling
Mr. Emerson of a fraudulent manufacturing company, which had failed, as it deserved to, and
which was found on investigation to have kept two sets of books, one for themselves, and another
for their creditors. Mrs. Emerson listened to this narrative with evident impatience, and at
the close of it she exclaimed, "This world has become so wicked that if I were the maker of
it, I should blow it up at once." Emerson himself did not like such stories; and although he
once said that "all deaf children ought to be put in the water with their faces downward,"
he was not always willing to accept human nature for what it really is.

Mrs. Emerson did not agree with her husband's religious views; neither did she adopt the transcendental
faith, that the idea of God is innate in the human mind, so that we cannot be dispossessed
of it. She belonged to the conservative branch of the Unitarian Church, which was represented
by Reverend James Freeman Clarke and Doctor Andrew P. Peabody. The subject was one which was
permitted to remain in abeyance between them, but Mrs. Emerson was naturally suspicious of
those reverend gentlemen who called upon her husband, and this may have been the reason why
he did not encourage the visits of clergymen like Samuel Johnson, Samuel Longfellow, and Professor
Hedge, whom he greatly respected, and who should have been by good rights his chosen companions.
I suppose all husbands are obliged to make these domestic compromises.

Mrs. Emerson had also something of the spirit-militant in her. When David A. Wasson came to
dine at Mr. Emerson's invitation, she said to him, by way of grace before meat: "I see you
have been carrying on a controversy with Reverend Mr. Sears, of Wayland, and you will excuse
me for expressing my opinion that Mr. Sears had the best of it." But after sounding this little
nourish of trumpets, she was as kindly and hospitable as any one could desire. She was one
of the earliest recruits to the anti-slavery cause,--not only a volunteer, but a recruiting
officer as well,--and she made this decision entirely of her own mind, without any special
encouragement from her husband or relatives. At the time of John Brown's execution she wanted
to have the bells tolled in Concord, and urged her husband energetically to see that it was
done. Mrs. Emerson was always thoroughly herself. There never was the shadow of an affectation
upon her; nor more than a shadow of self-consciousness--very rare among conscientious persons.
One of her fine traits was her fondness for flowers, which she cultivated in the little garden
between her house and the mill-brook, with a loving assiduity. She is supposed to have inspired
Emerson's poem, beginning:

                 "O fair and stately maid, whose eyes
                  Were kindled in the upper skies
                    At the same torch that lighted mine:
                  For so I must interpret still
                  Thy sweet dominion o'er my will,
                    A sympathy divine."

There are other references to her in his published writings, which only those who were personally
acquainted with her would recognize.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Hawthorne belonged to the class of womankind which Shakespeare has typified in Ophelia,
a tender-hearted, affectionate nature, too sensitive for the rough strains of life, and too
innocent to recognize the guile in others. This was at once her strength and her weakness;
but it was united, as often happens, with a fine artistic nature, and superior intelligence.
Her face and manners both gave the impression of a wide and elevated culture. One could see
that although she lived by the wayside, she had been accustomed to enter palaces. Her long
residence in England, her Italian experience, her visit to the Court of Portugal, her enjoyment
of fine pictures, poetry, and architecture, the acquaintance of distinguished men and women
in different countries, had all left their impress upon her, combined in a quiet and lady-like
harmony. Her conversation was cosmopolitan, and though she did not quite possess the narrative
gift of her sister Elizabeth, it was often exceedingly interesting.

Hawthorne has been looked upon as the necrologist of the Puritans, and yet a certain coloring
of Puritanism adhered to him to the last. It was his wife who had entirely escaped from the
old New England conventicle. Severity was at the opposite pole from her moral nature. Tolerant
and charitable to the faults of others, her only fault was the lack of severity. She believed
in the law of love, and when kind words did not serve her purpose she let matters take what
course they would, trusting that good might fall, "At last far off at last to all."

I suspect her pathway was by no means a flowery one. Mrs. Emerson's life had to be as stoical
as her husband's, and Mrs. Hawthorne's, previous to the Liverpool consulate,--the consulship
of Hawthorne,--was even more difficult. No one knew better than she the meaning of that heroism
which each day requires. A writer in the Atlantic Monthly, reviewing Julian Hawthorne's biography
of his father, emphasizes, "the dual selfishness of Mr. and Mrs. Hawthorne." Insensate words!
There was no room for selfishness in the lives they led. In a certain sense they lived almost
wholly for one another and for their children; but Hawthorne himself lived for all time and
for all mankind, and his wife lived through him to the same purpose. The especial form of their
material life was as essential to its spiritual outgrowth as the rose-bush is to the rose;
and it would be a cankered selfishness to complain of them for it.

Appendices

APPENDIX A

There is at least one error in the Symmes diary, which is however explainable, and need not
vitiate the whole of it. It has been ascertained that the drowning of Henry Jackson in Songo
River by being kicked in the mouth by another boy while swimming, took place in 1828, so that
the statement to that effect in the diary, must have been interpolated. As it happened, however,
another Henry Jackson was drowned in the Songo River, so Mr. Pickard says, more than twenty
years before that, and it is quite possible that young Hawthorne overheard some talk about
that catastrophe, and mistook it for a recent event; and that Symmes afterwards confounding
the two Jacksons and the difference in time, amended Hawthorne's statement as we now have it.
Mr. Pickard says in a recent letter:

"This item alone led me to doubt. But I cannot doubt, the more I reflect upon it, that H. himself
had a hand in most, if not all, the other items. Who but his uncle could have written that
inscription? The negro Symmes could not have composed that--only a man of culture."... "The
sketch of the sail on Sebago Lake surely was written by some one who was in that party. Symmes
might have been there, but he was a genius deserving the fame of a Chatterton if he really
did this. Three of that party I personally knew--one (Sawyer) was a cousin of my grandfather.
His sleight of hand, his skill with rifle, his being a 'votary of chance,' are traditions in
my family."

This does not differ essentially from the opinion I have already expressed in Chapter II. F.
B. Sanborn, who is one of the best-informed of living men in regard to Hawthorne, takes a similar
view.

APPENDIX B

In February, 1883, a review of "Nathaniel Hawthorne and his Wife" was published in the Atlantic
Monthly, evidently written by a person with no good-will toward the family. Editors ought to
beware of such reviews, for their character is easily recognized, and the effect they produce
often reacts upon the publication that contains them. In the present instance, the ill-humor
of the writer had evidently been bottled up for many years.

To place typographical errors to the debit of an author's account--not very numerous for a
work of eight hundred pages--suggests either an inexperienced or a strongly prejudiced critic.
This is what the Atlantic writer begins with, and he (or she) next proceeds to complain that
the book does not contain a complete bibliography of Hawthorne's works; although many excellent
biographies have been published without this, and it is quite possible that Hawthorne's son
preferred not to insert it. No notice is taken of the many fine passages in the book, like
the apostrophe upon Hawthorne's marriage, [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, i. 242,] and that excellent
description of the performances of a trance medium at Florence, but continues in an ascending
climax of fault-finding until he (or she) reaches the passage from Hawthorne's Roman diary
concerning Margaret Fuller. [Footnote: J. Hawthorne, i. 30-35.]

If public opinion has any value, this passage concerning Margaret Fuller's marriage ought not
to have been published; but what can Margaret Fuller's friends and admirers expect? Do they
think that a young American woman can go to a foreign country, and live with a foreign gentleman,
in defiance of the customs of modern society, without subjecting herself to the severest criticism?
It is true that she married Count d'Ossoli before her child was born, and her friends, who
were certainly an enlightened class, always believed that she acted throughout from the most
honorable motives (my own opinion is, that she acted in imitation of Goethe), but how can they
expect the great mass of mankind to think so? Hawthorne had a right to his opinion, as well
as Emerson and Channing, and although it was certainly not a very charitable opinion, we cannot
doubt that it was an honest one. In regard to the marriage tie, Hawthorne was always strict
and conservative.

This is the climax of the Atlantic critique, and its anti-climax is an excoriation of Hawthorne's
son for neglecting to do equal and exact justice to James T. Fields. This truly is a grievous
accusation. Fields was Hawthorne's publisher and would seem to have taken a personal and friendly
interest in him besides, but we cannot look on it as a wholly unselfish interest. It was not
like Hillard's, Pierce's, and Bridge's interest in Hawthorne. If Fields had not been his publisher,
it is not probable that Hawthorne would have made his acquaintance; and if his son has not
enlarged on Fields's good offices in bringing "The Scarlet Letter" before the public, there
is an excellent reason for it, in the fact that Fields had already done so for himself in his
"Yesterdays with Authors." That Fields's name should have been omitted in the index to "Nathaniel
Hawthorne and his Wife," may have been an oversight; but, at all events, it is too microscopic
a matter to deserve consideration in a first-class review.

Are we become such babies, that it is no longer possible for a writer to tell the plain, ostensible
truth concerning human nature, without having a storm raised about his head for it? George
P. Bradford and Martin F. Tupper are similar instances, and like Boswell have suffered the
penalty which accrues to men of small stature for associating with giants.

APPENDIX C

The great poets and other writers of all nations whom I conceive to be superior to Hawthorne,
may be found in the following list: Homer, Aschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Pindar, Thucydides,
Plato, Aristotle, Demosthenes, Theocritus, Plutarch; Horace, Virgil, Cicero, Tacitus; Dante,
Tasso, Petrarch; Cervantes, Calderon, Camoens; Moliere, Racine, Descartes, Voltaire; Lessing,
Goethe, Schiller, Kant; Swedenborg; Chaucer, Shakespeare, Bacon, Milton, and perhaps Burns
and Byron; Alexander Hamilton, Napoleon.

These also may be placed more on an equality with Hawthorne, although there will of course
always be wide differences of opinion on that point: Hesiod, Herodotus, Menander, Aristophases;
Livy, Casar, Lucretius, Juvenal; Ariosto, Macchiavelli, Manzoni, Lope de Vega, Buthas Pato;
Corneille, Pascal, Rousseau; Wieland, Klopstock, Heine, Auerbach; Spenser, Ben Jonson, Fletcher,
Fielding, Pope, Scott, Wordsworth, Shelley, Carlyle, Browning, Tennyson, Froude; Webster, Emerson,
Wasson. Sappho, Bion, Moschus, and Cleanthes were certainly poets of a high order, but only
some fragments of their poetry have survived. Gottfried of Strassburg, the Minnesinger, might
be included, and some of the finest English poetry was written by unknown geniuses of the fourteenth
and fifteenth centuries. Ballads like "Chevy Chace" and the "Child of Elle" deserve a high
place in the rank of poetry; and the German "Reineke Fuchs" is in its way without a rival.
There may be other French, German, and Spanish writers of exceptional excellence with whom
I am unacquainted, but I do not feel that any French or German novelists of the last century
ought to be placed on a level with Hawthorne--only excepting Auerbach. Victor Hugo is grandiloquent,
and the others all have some serious fault or limitation. I suppose that not one in ten of
Emerson's readers has ever heard of Wasson, but he was the better prose writer of the two,
and little inferior as a poet. More elevated he could not be, but more profound, just, logical
and humane--that is, more like Hawthorne. Emerson could not have filled his place on the Atlantic
Monthly and the North American Review.

Index

Index

Adams, John Quincy After-dinner speeches Alcott, A. Bronson "Ambitious Guest, The," "Ancestral
Footstep, The," Antinous of the villa Ludovisi "Arabella," the ship Arnold, Matthew "Artist
of the Beautiful, The," Athenaan Society Atlantic Club Aurelius, Marcus

Bacon's, Miss, volume published Balzac Bancroft, George Beethoven Bennoch, Francis "Blithedale
Romance" Blodgett's boarding-house "Bloody Footstep" "Birth Mark, The," "Bosom Serpent, The,"
Bradford, George P Brandes, Danish critic Bridge, Horatio, Bright, Henry A. Brook Farm Brown,
John Browning and Carlyle Browning, Mrs. Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Robert Buchanan, President

Carlyle and Hawthorne
Castor and Pollux, statues of
"Celestial Railroad, The"
Cenci, Beatrice, portrait of
Channing, Ellery
Channing, William H.
Cilley and Graves duel
Cilley, Jonathan
  description of
Clarke, Edward H.
Clarke, Rev. Dr. James F.
"Code of Honor," the
College skepticism
Columbia, statue of
Concord River
Conway, Rev. M. D.
Crab spider, the
Crawford, sculptor
"Critique of Pure Reason, The"
Curtis, George William

Dallas, George M. Dante's Inferno Dickens "Doctor Grimshawe's Secret" Dolliver, Dr. "Dolliver
Romance, The" Donatello's crime Dwight, John S., musical critic

Elgin marbles
Eliot, George
Emerson
  essays
Emerson, Mrs. R. W.
  her figure
  religious views
English lakes
"English Note-book"
English scenery
Essex County people
Evans, Marian

"Fancy's Show Box"
"Fanshawe"
"Faun of Praxiteles"
"Felton, Septimius,"
Fielding
Fields, James T
Florentine art
Fourier
Fuller, Margaret
  as Zenobia
  her marriage

Gardner, E. A., Prof
Genius, its growth
"Gentle Boy, The,"
Ghosts
Gibson, sculptor
  his tinted Eves and Venuses
Gladstone, William E., on transcendentalism
Godkin, E. L.
Goethe
Golden Age, A
Goodrich, S. G., editor
"Great Carbuncle, The,"
"Great Stone Face, The,"
Guilty glimpses at hired models
Gurney, Prof. E. W.

"Hall of Fantasy, The,"
Harris, Dr. William T.
Harvard Law School
Hathorne, Daniel
Hathorne, John
  witches' judge
  his last will
  his gravestone
Hathorne, Joseph
Hathorne, Nathaniel
Hathorne, William
  Letter to British Ministry
Hawthorne, Elizabeth
Hawthorne, Julian
Hawthorne, Louisa
  her death
Hawthorne, Mrs. Sophia Peabody
  becomes engaged to Hawthorne
  writes to her mother
  encourages her husband
  praises her husband
  is out of health
  goes to Madeira
  is presented at court
  the original of Hilda
  at Concord
  her opinions
  character and style
Hawthorne, Nathaniel,
  his English ancestors
  family name
  birthplace
  his lameness
  early poetry
  life at Sebago
  his first diary
  the budding of his genius
  fits for college
  "Pin Society"
  religious instruction
  decides on his vocation
  has the measles
  his life at Bowdoin
  outdoor sports
  is fined for gambling
  graduates at Bowdoin
  decides his profession
  publishes "Fanshawe"
  changes his name
  despondency
  goes to Lake Champlain
  wins his bet with Cilley
  commences his diary
  his supposed challenge
  thanks Longfellow
  goes to Berkshire Hills
  character of his diary
  his engagement
  enters Custom House
  goes to Brook Farm
  his marriage
  his true Arcadia
  his skating
  opinion of Emerson
  birth of a daughter
  his indolence
  style as an author
  returns to Robert Manning's house
  is appointed Surveyor of the Port
  son Julian is born
  occupies house on Mall street
  is removed from office
  publishes "Scarlet Letter"
  method of development
  sits for his portrait; goes to Lenox
  publishes "House of Seven Gables"
  birth of his daughter Rose
  leaves Lenox for Newton
  returns to Concord
  writes the "Life of Pierce"
  the Liverpool consulate
  sails for England
  as an office-holder
  his life in England
  makes a speech
  kindness to Delia Bacon
  resigns the Consulate
  as a law writer
  goes to Paris
  arrives at Rome
  journeys to Florence
  goes to the Vatican
  on modern sculpture
  returns to Rome
  visits Geneva
  summer at Redcar
  publishes the "Marble Faun
  Hawthorne the famous
  begins to dislike writing
  returns to Concord
  method of writing
  patriotism
  proposes to arm negroes
  preparatory sketches
  sojourns at Beverly Farms
  last entry in his journal
  dedicates book to President Pierce
  at home
  personal appearance
  seriously ill
  Hawthorne's philosophy
  his death
  his funeral
  religious convictions
  his position in literature
Hawthorne, Rose, her birth
  her memoirs
Hawthorne's mother
  her character
  her death
Hawthorne, Una, her birth
  severe illness of
Hilda, character of
  her tower
Hillard, George S.
Hoar, Miss Elizabeth
Holiday epauletes
Holmes, Oliver Wendell
Hosmer, Harriet
Houghton, Lord
"House of the Seven Gables, The"
Howe, Dr. Samuel G.
Hunt, suicide of Miss

Italian Note-book

Jackson, Andrew James, Henry, Jr. James, Henry, Sr. Jameson, Mrs. Anna Jerrold, Douglas

Kansas-Nebraska Bill Kant, Immanuel Kemble, Frances Kitridge, Doctor

"Lady Eleanor's Mantle"
Laocoon
Lathrop, George P.
Leamington
Lincoln, President
Liverpool Consulate
Longfellow, Henry W.
  reviews Hawthorne
Loring, Frederick W.
Loring, Dr. George B.
Lowell, James Russell

Mann, Horace
Mann, Mrs. Horace
Manning family
Manning, Rebecca
Manning, Richard
Manning, Robert
"Marble Faun, The," English reviews of
  analysis of
  its original
McClellan, General George B.
McMichael, Morton
Melville, Hermann
Mexican War
Michel Angelo
  his Last Judgment and Moses
"Miroir, Monsieur du"
"Mosses from an Old Manse"
Motley's opinions
"Mrs. Bullfrog"

Niagara Falls, visit to North American Review Nurse, Rebecca, a witch

Offensive partisanship "Old Manse," the "Ontario Steamboat, The" O'Sullivan, an editor "Our
Old Home"

Parker, Theodore
Peabody, Elizabeth
Peabody, Sophia Amelia
Philadelphia Hock Club
Pickard, Samuel T.
Pierce, Franklin
  elected Senator
  goes to the war
  nominated for President
  his father
  various
Pike, William B.
Poetic mind, the
Politicians, opinion of
Portraits of Hawthorne by Osgood, Healy, Rowse, and
  others
Positivists
Powers, Hiram
  his America
Prescott, George L
Prince of Wales
Pyncheon, Clifford

Quakers, persecution of

Raphael's Transfiguration "Rappacini's Daughter" Reform Club of London Ripley, George Rock
Ferry Roman Carnival Runnel, Mary, sweetheart of Daniel Hathorne Ruskin

Sailors maltreated
Salem architecture
Salem, situation of
Salem society
Salem's sea-captains
Sanborn, Frank B., attempt to kidnap
"Scarlet Letter, The,"
Schonbach, A. E., German critic
"Select Party, The,"
Shakespeare, authorship of
  Epitaph
Shaw, Chief Justice
Shelley
Sheridan's Ride
"Sights from a Steeple"
Silsbee, Edward
Sistine Chapel
Skepticism of evil
Slavery Question
"Snow Image"
Spartan discipline
Story, William W.
St. Petersburg Venus
Sumner and Motley
Sumner, Charles
Swartwout's defalcation
Symms, William, a mulatto

"Tanglewood Tales"
Taylor, President
Thoreau
  of marriage
Ticknor, W. D., death of
Tituba, the Aztec
Tragedy, character of
Trance medium, a
Transcendentalism
  essence of
Tupper, Martin Farquhar
Turner, J. M. W.
"Twice Told Tales"

"Unpardonable Sin, The," Upham, the historian

Vanity of Women Vasari Venus de Medici "Vicar of Wakefield" Victor Hugo Villa Manteuto "Virtuoso's
Collection, The," "Vision at the Fountain, The,"

Ward's Tavern Warwick Castle Wasson, David A Waters, Henry F., researches of Wayside, The Webster,
Daniel West Roxbury commune Whittier, the poet Wig Castle in Wigton Witchcraft persecution
Wood, Warrington Worcester, Doctor, the lexicographer

"Young Goodman Brown"