That we can comprehend such cause, noumenally considered, is not to be supposed. To do this
would be to solve that ultimate mystery which must ever transcend human intelligence. But it
still may be possible for us to reduce the law of all progress, above set forth, from the condition
of an empirical generalization, to the condition of a rational generalization. Just as it was
possible to interpret Kepler's laws as necessary consequences of the law of gravitation; so
it may be possible to interpret this law of progress, in its multiform manifestations, as the
necessary consequence of some similarly universal principle. As gravitation was assignable
as the cause of each of the groups of phenomena which Kepler generalized; so may some equally
simple attribute of things be assignable as the cause of each of the groups of phenomena generalized
in the foregoing pages. We may be able to affiliate all these varied evolutions of the homogeneous
into the heterogeneous, upon certain facts of immediate experience, which, in virtue of endless
repetition, we regard as necessary.

The probability of a common cause, and the possibility of formulating it, being granted, it
will be well, first, to ask what must be the general characteristics of such cause, and in
what direction we ought to look for it. We can with certainty predict that it has a high degree
of abstractness; seeing that it is common to such infinitely-varied phenomena. We need not
expect to see in it an obvious solution of this or that form of progress; because it is equally
concerned with forms of progress bearing little apparent resemblance to them: its association
with multiform orders of facts, involves its dissociation from any particular order of facts.
Being that which determines progress of every kind--astronomic, geologic, organic, ethnologic,
social, economic, artistic, &c.--it must be involved with some fundamental trait displayed
in common by these; and must be expressible in terms of this fundamental trait. The only obvious
respect in which all kinds of progress are alike, is, that they are modes of change; and hence,
in some characteristic of changes in general, the desired solution will probably be found.
We may suspect a priori that in some universal law of change lies the explanation of this universal
transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous.

Thus much premised, we pass at once to the statement of the law, which is this:--Every active
force produces more than one change--every cause produces more than one effect.

To make this proposition comprehensible, a few examples must be given. When one body strikes
another, that which we usually regard as the effect, is a change of position or motion in one
or both bodies. But a moment's thought shows us that this is a very incomplete view of the
matter. Besides the visible mechanical result, sound is produced; or, to speak accurately,
a vibration in one or both bodies, which is communicated to the surrounding air; and under
some circumstances we call this the effect. Moreover, the air has not only been made to undulate,
but has had currents caused in it by the transit of the bodies. Further, there is a disarrangement
of the particles of the two bodies in the neighbourhood of their point of collision; amounting,
in some cases, to a visible condensation. Yet more, this condensation is accompanied by the
disengagement of heat. In some cases a spark--that is, light--results, from the incandescence
of a portion struck off; and sometimes this incandescence is associated with chemical combination.
Thus, by the mechanical force expended in the collision, at least five, and often more, different
kinds of changes have been produced. Take, again, the lighting of a candle. Primarily this
is a chemical change consequent on a rise of temperature. The process of combination having
once been started by extraneous heat, there is a continued formation of carbonic acid, water,
&c.--in itself a result more complex than the extraneous heat that first caused it. But accompanying
this process of combination there is a production of heat; there is a production of light;
there is an ascending column of hot gases generated; there are inflowing currents set going
in the surrounding air. Moreover, the complicating of effects does not end here: each of the
several changes produced becomes the parent of further changes. The carbonic acid given off
will by and by combine with some base; or under the influence of sunshine give up its carbon
to the leaf of a plant. The water will modify the hygrometric state of the air around; or,
if the current of hot gases containing it comes against a cold body, will be condensed: altering
the temperature of the surface it covers. The heat given out melts the subjacent tallow, and
expands whatever it warms. The light, falling on various substances, calls forth from them
reactions by which its composition is modified; and so divers colours are produced. Similarly
even with these secondary actions, which may be traced out into ever-multiplying ramifications,
until they become too minute to be appreciated. And thus it is with all changes whatever. No
case can be named in which an active force does not evolve forces of several kinds, and each
of these, other groups of forces. Universally the effect is more complex than the cause.

Doubtless the reader already foresees the course of our argument. This multiplication of effects,
which is displayed in every event of to-day, has been going on from the beginning; and is true
of the grandest phenomena of the universe as of the most insignificant. From the law that every
active force produces more than one change, it is an inevitable corollary that during the past
there has been an ever-growing complication of things. Throughout creation there must have
gone on, and must still go on, a never-ceasing transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous.
Let us trace this truth in detail.

Without committing ourselves to it as more than a speculation, though a highly probable one,
let us again commence with the evolution of the Solar System out of a nebulous medium. The
hypothesis is that from the mutual attraction of the molecules of a diffused mass whose form
is unsymmetrical, there results not only condensation but rotation. While the condensation
and the rate of rotation go on increasing, the approach of the molecules is necessarily accompanied
by an increasing temperature. As the temperature rises, light begins to be evolved; and ultimately
there results a revolving sphere of fluid matter radiating intense heat and light--a sun. There
are reasons for believing that, in consequence of the higher tangential velocity originally
possessed by the outer parts of the condensing nebulous mass, there will be occasional detachments
of rotating rings; and that, from the breaking up of these nebulous rings, there will arise
masses which in the course of their condensation repeat the actions of the parent mass, and
so produce planets and their satellites--an inference strongly supported by the still extant
rings of Saturn. Should it hereafter be satisfactorily shown that planets and satellites were
thus generated, a striking illustration will be afforded of the highly heterogeneous effects
produced by the primary homogeneous cause; but it will serve our present purpose to point to
the fact that from the mutual attraction of the particles of an irregular nebulous mass there
result condensation, rotation, heat, and light.

It follows as a corollary from the Nebular Hypothesis, that the Earth must once have been incandescent;
and whether the Nebular Hypothesis be true or not, this original incandescence of the Earth
is now inductively established--or, if not established, at least rendered so highly probable
that it is an accepted geological doctrine. Let us look first at the astronomical attributes
of this once molten globe. From its rotation there result the oblateness of its form, the alternations
of day and night, and (under the influence of the moon and in a smaller degree the sun) the
tides, aqueous and atmospheric. From the inclination of its axis, there result the many differences
of the seasons, both simultaneous and successive, that pervade its surface, and from the same
cause joined with the action of the moon on the equatorial protuberance there results the precession
of the equinoxes. Thus the multiplication of effects is obvious. Several of the differentiations
due to the gradual cooling of the Earth have been already noticed--as the formation of a crust,
the solidification of sublimed elements, the precipitation of water, &c.,--and we here again
refer to them merely to point out that they are simultaneous effects of the one cause, diminishing
heat. Let us now, however, observe the multiplied changes afterwards arising from the continuance
of this one cause. The cooling of the Earth involves its contraction. Hence the solid crust
first formed is presently too large for the shrinking nucleus; and as it cannot support itself,
inevitably follows the nucleus. But a spheroidal envelope cannot sink down into contact with
a smaller internal spheroid, without disruption: it must run into wrinkles as the rind of an
apple does when the bulk of its interior decreases from evaporation. As the cooling progresses
and the envelope thickens, the ridges consequent on these contractions will become greater,
rising ultimately into hills and mountains; and the later systems of mountains thus produced
will not only be higher, as we find them to be, but will be longer, as we also find them to
be. Thus, leaving out of view other modifying forces, we see what immense heterogeneity of
surface has arisen from the one cause, loss of heat--a heterogeneity which the telescope shows
us to be paralleled on the face of Mars, and which in the moon too, where aqueous and atmospheric
agencies have been absent, it reveals under a somewhat different form. But we have yet to notice
another kind of heterogeneity of surface similarly and simultaneously caused. While the Earth's
crust was still thin, the ridges produced by its contraction must not only have been small,
but the spaces between these ridges must have rested with great evenness upon the subjacent
liquid spheroid; and the water in those arctic and antarctic regions in which it first condensed,
must have been evenly distributed. But as fast as the crust thickened and gained corresponding
strength, the lines of fracture from time to time caused in it, must have occurred at greater
distances apart; the intermediate surfaces must have followed the contracting nucleus with
less uniformity; and there must have resulted larger areas of land and water. If any one, after
wrapping up an orange in tissue paper, and observing not only how small are the wrinkles, but
how evenly the intervening spaces lie upon the surface of the orange, will then wrap it up
in thick cartridge-paper, and note both the greater height of the ridges and the larger spaces
throughout which the paper does not touch the orange, he will realize the fact that, as the
Earth's solid envelope grew thicker, the areas of elevation and depression increased. In place
of islands homogeneously dispersed amid an all-embracing sea, there must have gradually arisen
heterogeneous arrangements of continent and ocean. Once more, this double change in the extent
and in the elevation of the lands, involved yet another species of heterogeneity--that of coast-line.
A tolerably even surface raised out of the ocean must have a simple, regular sea-margin; but
a surface varied by table-lands and intersected by mountain-chains must, when raised out of
the ocean, have an outline extremely irregular both in its leading features and in its details.
Thus, multitudinous geological and geographical results are slowly brought about by this one
cause--the contraction of the Earth.

When we pass from the agency termed igneous, to aqueous and atmospheric agencies, we see the
like ever-growing complications of effects. The denuding actions of air and water, joined with
those of changing temperature, have, from the beginning, been modifying every exposed surface.
Oxidation, heat, wind, frost, rain, glaciers, rivers, tides, waves, have been unceasingly producing
disintegration; varying in kind and amount according to local circumstances. Acting upon a
tract of granite, they here work scarcely an appreciable effect; there cause exfoliations of
the surface, and a resulting heap of débris and boulders; and elsewhere, after decomposing
the feldspar into a white clay, carry away this and the accompanying quartz and mica, and deposit
them in separate beds, fluviatile and marine. When the exposed land consists of several unlike
kinds of sedimentary strata, or igneous rocks, or both, denudation produces changes proportionably
more heterogeneous. The formations being disintegrable in different degrees, there follows
an increased irregularity of surface. The areas drained by different rivers being differently
constituted, these rivers carry down to the sea different combinations of ingredients; and
so sundry new strata of unlike compositions are formed. And here we may see very simply illustrated,
the truth, which we shall presently have to trace out in more involved cases, that in proportion
to the heterogeneity of the object or objects on which any force expends itself, is the heterogeneity
of the effects. A continent of complex structure, exposing many strata irregularly distributed,
raised to various levels, tilted up at all angles, will, under the same denuding agencies,
give origin to innumerable and involved results: each district must be differently modified;
each river must carry down a different kind of detritus; each deposit must be differently distributed
by the entangled currents, tidal and other, which wash the contorted shores; and this multiplication
of results must manifestly be greatest where the complexity of surface is greatest.

Here we might show how the general truth, that every active force produces more than one change,
is again exemplified in the highly-involved flow of the tides, in the ocean currents, in the
winds, in the distribution of rain, in the distribution of heat, and so forth. But not to dwell
upon these, let us, for the fuller elucidation of this truth in relation to the inorganic world,
consider what would be the consequences of some extensive cosmical catastrophe--say the subsidence
of Central America. The immediate results of the disturbance would themselves be sufficiently
complex. Besides the numberless dislocations of strata, the ejections of igneous matter, the
propagation of earthquake vibrations thousands of miles around, the loud explosions, and the
escape of gases; there would be the rush of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans to fill the vacant
space, the subsequent recoil of enormous waves, which would traverse both these oceans and
produce myriads of changes along their shores, the corresponding atmospheric waves complicated
by the currents surrounding each volcanic vent, and the electrical discharges with which such
disturbances are accompanied. But these temporary effects would be insignificant compared with
the permanent ones. The currents of the Atlantic and Pacific would be altered in their directions
and amounts. The distribution of heat achieved by those ocean currents would be different from
what it is. The arrangement of the isothermal lines, not only on neighbouring continents, but
even throughout Europe, would be changed. The tides would flow differently from what they do
now. There would be more or less modification of the winds in their periods, strengths, directions,
qualities. Rain would fall scarcely anywhere at the same times and in the same quantities as
at present. In short, the meteorological conditions thousands of miles off, on all sides, would
be more or less revolutionized. Thus, without taking into account the infinitude of modifications
which these changes would produce upon the flora and fauna, both of land and sea, the reader
will perceive the immense heterogeneity of the results wrought out by one force, when that
force expends itself upon a previously complicated area; and he will draw the corollary that
from the beginning the complication has advanced at an increasing rate.

Before going on to show how organic progress also depends on the law that every force produces
more than one change, we have to notice the manifestation of this law in yet another species
of inorganic progress--namely, chemical. The same general causes that have wrought out the
heterogeneity of the Earth, physically considered, have simultaneously wrought out its chemical
heterogeneity. There is every reason to believe that at an extreme heat the elements cannot
combine. Even under such heat as can be artificially produced, some very strong affinities
yield, as, for instance, that of oxygen for hydrogen; and the great majority of chemical compounds
are decomposed at much lower temperatures. But without insisting on the highly probable inference,
that when the Earth was in its first state of incandescence there were no chemical combinations
at all, it will suffice for our purpose to point to the unquestionable fact that the compounds
which can exist at the highest temperatures, and which must, therefore, have been the first
that were formed as the Earth cooled, are those of the simplest constitutions. The protoxides--including
under that head the alkalies, earths, &c.--are, as a class, the most stable compounds we know:
most of them resisting decomposition by any heat we can generate. These are combinations of
the simplest order--are but one degree less homogeneous than the elements themselves. More
heterogeneous, less stable, and therefore later in the Earth's history, are the deutoxides,
tritoxides, peroxides, &c.; in which two, three, four, or more atoms of oxygen are united with
one atom of metal or other element. Higher than these in heterogeneity are the hydrates; in
which an oxide of hydrogen, united with an oxide of some other element, forms a substance whose
atoms severally contain at least four ultimate atoms of three different kinds. Yet more heterogeneous
and less stable still are the salts; which present us with molecules each made up of five,
six, seven, eight, ten, twelve, or more atoms, of three, if not more, kinds. Then there are
the hydrated salts, of a yet greater heterogeneity, which undergo partial decomposition at
much lower temperatures. After them come the further complicated supersalts and double salts,
having a stability again decreased; and so throughout. Without entering into qualifications
for which space fails, we believe no chemist will deny it to be a general law of these inorganic
combinations that, other things equal, the stability decreases as the complexity increases.
When we pass to the compounds of organic chemistry, we find this general law still further
exemplified: we find much greater complexity and much less stability. A molecule of albumen,
for instance, consists of 482 ultimate atoms of five different kinds. Fibrine, still more intricate
in constitution, contains in each molecule, 298 atoms of carbon, 49 of nitrogen, 2 of sulphur,
228 of hydrogen, and 92 of oxygen--in all, 669 atoms; or, more strictly speaking, equivalents.
And these two substances are so unstable as to decompose at quite ordinary temperatures; as
that to which the outside of a joint of roast meat is exposed. Thus it is manifest that the
present chemical heterogeneity of the Earth's surface has arisen by degrees, as the decrease
of heat has permitted; and that it has shown itself in three forms--first, in the multiplication
of chemical compounds; second, in the greater number of different elements contained in the
more modern of these compounds; and third, in the higher and more varied multiples in which
these more numerous elements combine.

To say that this advance in chemical heterogeneity is due to the one cause, diminution of the
Earth's temperature, would be to say too much; for it is clear that aqueous and atmospheric
agencies have been concerned; and further, that the affinities of the elements themselves are
implied. The cause has all along been a composite one: the cooling of the Earth having been
simply the most general of the concurrent causes, or assemblage of conditions. And here, indeed,
it may be remarked that in the several classes of facts already dealt with (excepting, perhaps,
the first), and still more in those with which we shall presently deal, the causes are more
or less compound; as indeed are nearly all causes with which we are acquainted. Scarcely any
change can rightly be ascribed to one agency alone, to the neglect of the permanent or temporary
conditions under which only this agency produces the change. But as it does not materially
affect our argument, we prefer, for simplicity's sake, to use throughout the popular mode of
expression. Perhaps it will be further objected, that to assign loss of heat as the cause of
any changes, is to attribute these changes not to a force, but to the absence of a force. And
this is true. Strictly speaking, the changes should be attributed to those forces which come
into action when the antagonist force is withdrawn. But though there is inaccuracy in saying
that the freezing of water is due to the loss of its heat, no practical error arises from it;
nor will a parallel laxity of expression vitiate our statements respecting the multiplication
of effects. Indeed, the objection serves but to draw attention to the fact, that not only does
the exertion of a force produce more than one change, but the withdrawal of a force produces
more than one change.

Returning to the thread of our exposition, we have next to trace, throughout organic progress,
this same all-pervading principle. And here, where the evolution of the homogeneous into the
heterogeneous was first observed, the production of many effects by one cause is least easy
to demonstrate. The development of a seed into a plant, or an ovum into an animal, is so gradual,
while the forces which determine it are so involved, and at the same time so unobtrusive, that
it is difficult to detect the multiplication of effects which is elsewhere so obvious. But,
guided by indirect evidence, we may safely conclude that here too the law holds. Note, first,
how numerous are the changes which any marked action works upon an adult organism--a human
being, for instance. An alarming sound or sight, besides the impressions on the organs of sense
and the nerves, may produce a start, a scream, a distortion of the face, a trembling consequent
on general muscular relaxation, a burst of perspiration, a rush of blood to the brain, followed
possibly by arrest of the heart's action and by syncope; and if the subject be feeble, an indisposition
with its long train of complicated symptoms may set in. Similarly in cases of disease. A minute
portion of the small-pox virus introduced into the system, will, in a severe case, cause, during
the first stage, rigors, heat of skin, accelerated pulse, furred tongue, loss of appetite,
thirst, epigastric uneasiness, vomiting, headache, pains in the back and limbs, muscular weakness,
convulsions, delirium, &c.; in the second stage, cutaneous eruption, itching, tingling, sore
throat, swelled fauces, salivation, cough, hoarseness, dyspnoea, &c.; and in the third stage,
oedematous inflammations, pneumonia, pleurisy, diarrhoea, inflammation of the brain, ophthalmia,
erysipelas, &c.: each of which enumerated symptoms is itself more or less complex. Medicines,
special foods, better air, might in like manner be instanced as producing multipled results.
Now it needs only to consider that the many changes thus wrought by one force upon an adult
organism, will be in part paralleled in an embryo organism, to understand how here also, the
evolution of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous may be due to the production of many effects
by one cause. The external heat, which, falling on a matter having special proclivities, determines
the first complications of the germ, may, by acting on these, superinduce further complications;
upon these still higher and more numerous ones; and so on continually: each organ as it is
developed serving, by its actions and reactions on the rest, to initiate new complexities.
The first pulsations of the foetal heart must simultaneously aid the unfolding of every part.
The growth of each tissue, by taking from the blood special proportions of elements, must modify
the constitution of the blood; and so must modify the nutrition of all the other tissues. The
heart's action, implying as it does a certain waste, necessitates an addition to the blood
of effete matters, which must influence the rest of the system, and perhaps, as some think,
cause the formation of excretory organs. The nervous connexions established among the viscera
must further multiply their mutual influences; and so continually. Still stronger becomes the
probability of this view when we call to mind the fact, that the same germ may be evolved into
different forms according to circumstances. Thus, during its earlier stages, every embryo is
sexless--becomes either male or female as the balance of forces acting on it determines. Again,
it is a well-established fact that the larva of a working-bee will develop into a queen-bee,
if before it is too late, its food be changed to that on which the larvæ of queen-bees are
fed. All which instances suggest that the proximate cause of each advance in embryonic complication
is the action of incident forces upon the complication previously existing. Indeed, we may
find a priori reason to think that the evolution proceeds after this manner. For since no germ,
animal or vegetal, contains the slightest rudiment or indication of the future organism--since
the microscope has shown us that the first process set up in every fertilized germ, is a process
of repeated spontaneous fissions ending in the production of a mass of cells, not one of which
exhibits any special character; there seems no alternative but to suppose that the partial
organization at any moment existing in a growing embryo, is transformed by the agencies acting
upon it into the succeeding phase of organization, and this into the next, until, through ever-increasing
complexities, the ultimate form is reached. Not indeed that we can thus really explain the
production of any plant or animal. We are still in the dark respecting those mysterious properties
in virtue of which the germ, when subject to fit influences, undergoes the special changes
that begin the series of transformations. All we aim to show, is, that given a germ possessing
those particular proclivities distinguishing the species to which it belongs, and the evolution
of an organism from it, probably depends on that multiplication of effects which we have seen
to be the cause of progress in general, so far as we have yet traced it.

When, leaving the development of single plants and animals, we pass to that of the Earth's
flora and fauna, the course of our argument again becomes clear and simple. Though, as was
admitted in the first part of this article, the fragmentary facts Paleontology has accumulated,
do not clearly warrant us in saying that, in the lapse of geologic time, there have been evolved
more heterogeneous organisms, and more heterogeneous assemblages of organisms, yet we shall
now see that there must ever have been a tendency towards these results. We shall find that
the production of many effects by one cause, which as already shown, has been all along increasing
the physical heterogeneity of the Earth, has further involved an increasing heterogeneity in
its flora and fauna, individually and collectively. An illustration will make this clear. Suppose
that by a series of upheavals, occurring, as they are now known to do, at long intervals, the
East Indian Archipelago were to be, step by step, raised into a continent, and a chain of mountains
formed along the axis of elevation. By the first of these upheavals, the plants and animals
inhabiting Borneo, Sumatra, New Guinea, and the rest, would be subjected to slightly modified
sets of conditions. The climate in general would be altered in temperature, in humidity, and
in its periodical variations; while the local differences would be multiplied. These modifications
would affect, perhaps inappreciably, the entire flora and fauna of the region. The change of
level would produce additional modifications: varying in different species, and also in different
members of the same species, according to their distance from the axis of elevation. Plants,
growing only on the sea-shore in special localities, might become extinct. Others, living only
in swamps of a certain humidity, would, if they survived at all, probably undergo visible changes
of appearance. While still greater alterations would occur in the plants gradually spreading
over the lands newly raised above the sea. The animals and insects living on these modified
plants, would themselves be in some degree modified by change of food, as well as by change
of climate; and the modification would be more marked where, from the dwindling or disappearance
of one kind of plant, an allied kind was eaten. In the lapse of the many generations arising
before the next upheaval, the sensible or insensible alterations thus produced in each species
would become organized--there would be a more or less complete adaptation to the new conditions.
The next upheaval would superinduce further organic changes, implying wider divergences from
the primary forms; and so repeatedly. But now let it be observed that the revolution thus resulting
would not be a substitution of a thousand more or less modified species for the thousand original
species; but in place of the thousand original species there would arise several thousand species,
or varieties, or changed forms. Each species being distributed over an area of some extent,
and tending continually to colonize the new area exposed, its different members would be subject
to different sets of changes. Plants and animals spreading towards the equator would not be
affected in the same way as others spreading from it. Those spreading towards the new shores
would undergo changes unlike the changes undergone by those spreading into the mountains. Thus,
each original race of organisms, would become the root from which diverged several races differing
more or less from it and from each other; and while some of these might subsequently disappear,
probably more than one would survive in the next geologic period: the very dispersion itself
increasing the chances of survival. Not only would there be certain modifications thus caused
by change of physical conditions and food, but also in some cases other modifications caused
by change of habit. The fauna of each island, peopling, step by step, the newly-raised tracts,
would eventually come in contact with the faunas of other islands; and some members of these
other faunas would be unlike any creatures before seen. Herbivores meeting with new beasts
of prey, would, in some cases, be led into modes of defence or escape differing from those
previously used; and simultaneously the beasts of prey would modify their modes of pursuit
and attack. We know that when circumstances demand it, such changes of habit do take place
in animals; and we know that if the new habits become the dominant ones, they must eventually
in some degree alter the organization. Observe now, however, a further consequence. There must
arise not simply a tendency towards the differentiation of each race of organisms into several
races; but also a tendency to the occasional production of a somewhat higher organism. Taken
in the mass these divergent varieties which have been caused by fresh physical conditions and
habits of life, will exhibit changes quite indefinite in kind and degree; and changes that
do not necessarily constitute an advance. Probably in most cases the modified type will be
neither more nor less heterogeneous than the original one. In some cases the habits of life
adopted being simpler than before, a less heterogeneous structure will result: there will be
a retrogradation. But it must now and then occur, that some division of a species, falling
into circumstances which give it rather more complex experiences, and demand actions somewhat
more involved, will have certain of its organs further differentiated in proportionately small
degrees,--will become slightly more heterogeneous. Thus, in the natural course of things, there
will from time to time arise an increased heterogeneity both of the Earth's flora and fauna,
and of individual races included in them. Omitting detailed explanations, and allowing for
the qualifications which cannot here be specified, we think it is clear that geological mutations
have all along tended to complicate the forms of life, whether regarded separately or collectively.
The same causes which have led to the evolution of the Earth's crust from the simple into the
complex, have simultaneously led to a parallel evolution of the Life upon its surface. In this
case, as in previous ones, we see that the transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous
is consequent upon the universal principle, that every active force produces more than one change.

The deduction here drawn from the established truths of geology and the general laws of life,
gains immensely in weight on finding it to be in harmony with an induction drawn from direct
experience. Just that divergence of many races from one race, which we inferred must have been
continually occurring during geologic time, we know to have occurred during the pre-historic
and historic periods, in man and domestic animals. And just that multiplication of effects
which we concluded must have produced the first, we see has produced the last. Single causes,
as famine, pressure of population, war, have periodically led to further dispersions of mankind
and of dependent creatures: each such dispersion initiating new modifications, new varieties
of type. Whether all the human races be or be not derived from one stock, philology makes it
clear that whole groups of races now easily distinguishable from each other, were originally
one race,--that the diffusion of one race into different climates and conditions of existence,
has produced many modified forms of it. Similarly with domestic animals. Though in some cases--as
that of dogs--community of origin will perhaps be disputed, yet in other cases--as that of
the sheep or the cattle of our own country--it will not be questioned that local differences
of climate, food, and treatment, have transformed one original breed into numerous breeds now
become so far distinct as to produce unstable hybrids. Moreover, through the complication of
effects flowing from single causes, we here find, what we before inferred, not only an increase
of general heterogeneity, but also of special heterogeneity. While of the divergent divisions
and subdivisions of the human race many have undergone changes not constituting an advance;
while in some the type may have degraded; in others it has become decidedly more heterogeneous.
The civilized European departs more widely from the vertebrate archetype than does the savage.
Thus, both the law and the cause of progress, which, from lack of evidence, can be but hypothetically
substantiated in respect of the earlier forms of life on our globe, can be actually substantiated
in respect of the latest forms.[4]

If the advance of Man towards greater heterogeneity is traceable to the production of many
effects by one cause, still more clearly may the advance of Society towards greater heterogeneity
be so explained. Consider the growth of an industrial organization. When, as must occasionally
happen, some member of a tribe displays unusual aptitude for making an article of general use--a
weapon, for instance--which was before made by each man for himself, there arises a tendency
towards the differentiation of that member into a maker of such weapon. His companions--warriors
and hunters all of them,--severally feel the importance of having the best weapons that can
be made; and are therefore certain to offer strong inducements to this skilled individual to
make weapons for them. He, on the other hand, having not only an unusual faculty, but an unusual
liking, for making such weapons (the talent and the desire for any occupation being commonly
associated), is predisposed to fulfil each commission on the offer of an adequate reward: especially
as his love of distinction is also gratified and his living facilitated. This first specialization
of function, once commenced, tends ever to become more decided. On the side of the weapon-maker
practice gives increased skill--increased superiority to his products. On the side of his clients,
cessation of practice entails decreased skill. Thus the influences which determine this division
of labour grow stronger in both ways; and the incipient heterogeneity is, on the average of
cases, likely to become permanent for that generation if no longer. This process not only differentiates
the social mass into two parts, the one monopolizing, or almost monopolizing, the performance
of a certain function, and the other losing the habit, and in some measure the power, of performing
that function; but it tends to initiate other differentiations. The advance described implies
the introduction of barter,--the maker of weapons has, on each occasion, to be paid in such
other articles as he agrees to take in exchange. He will not habitually take in exchange one
kind of article, but many kinds. He does not want mats only, or skins, or fishing-gear, but
he wants all these, and on each occasion will bargain for the particular things he most needs.
What follows? If among his fellows there exist any slight differences of skill in the manufacture
of these various things, as there are almost sure to do, the weapon-maker will take from each
one the thing which that one excels in making: he will exchange for mats with him whose mats
are superior, and will bargain for the fishing-gear of him who has the best. But he who has
bartered away his mats or his fishing-gear, must make other mats or fishing-gear for himself;
and in so doing must, in some degree, further develop his aptitude. Thus it results that the
small specialities of faculty possessed by various members of the tribe, will tend to grow
more decided. And whether or not there ensue distinct differentiations of other individuals
into makers of particular articles, it is clear that incipient differentiations take place
throughout the tribe: the one original cause produces not only the first dual effect, but a
number of secondary dual effects, like in kind, but minor in degree. This process, of which
traces may be seen among schoolboys, cannot well produce lasting effects in an unsettled tribe;
but where there grows up a fixed and multiplying community, such differentiations become permanent,
and increase with each generation. The enhanced demand for every commodity, intensifies the
functional activity of each specialized person or class; and this renders the specialization
more definite where it already exists, and establishes it where it is but nascent. By increasing
the pressure on the means of subsistence, a larger population again augments these results;
seeing that each person is forced more and more to confine himself to that which he can do
best, and by which he can gain most. Presently, under these same stimuli, new occupations arise.
Competing workers, ever aiming to produce improved articles, occasionally discover better processes
or raw materials. The substitution of bronze for stone entails on him who first makes it a
great increase of demand; so that he or his successor eventually finds all his time occupied
in making the bronze for the articles he sells, and is obliged to depute the fashioning of
these articles to others; and, eventually, the making of bronze, thus differentiated from a
pre-existing occupation, becomes an occupation by itself. But now mark the ramified changes
which follow this change. Bronze presently replaces stone, not only in the articles it was
first used for, but in many others--in arms, tools, and utensils of various kinds: and so affects
the manufacture of them. Further, it affects the processes which these utensils subserve, and
the resulting products,--modifies buildings, carvings, personal decorations. Yet again, it
sets going manufactures which were before impossible, from lack of a material fit for the requisite
implements. And all these changes react on the people--increase their manipulative skill, their
intelligence, their comfort,--refine their habits and tastes. Thus the evolution of a homogeneous
society into a heterogeneous one, is clearly consequent on the general principle, that many
effects are produced by one cause.

Space permitting, we might show how the localization o£ special industries in special parts
of a kingdom, as well as the minute subdivision of labour in the making of each commodity,
are similarly determined. Or, turning to a somewhat different order of illustrations, we might
dwell on the multitudinous changes--material, intellectual, moral,--caused by printing; or
the further extensive series of changes wrought by gunpowder. But leaving the intermediate
phases of social development, let us take a few illustrations from its most recent and its
passing phases. To trace the effects of steam-power, in its manifold applications to mining,
navigation, and manufactures of all kinds, would carry us into unmanageable detail. Let us
confine ourselves to the latest embodiment of steam power--the locomotive engine. This, as
the proximate cause of our railway system, has changed the face of the country, the course
of trade, and the habits of the people. Consider, first, the complicated sets of changes that
precede the making of every railway--the provisional arrangements, the meetings, the registration,
the trial section, the parliamentary survey, the lithographed plans, the books of reference,
the local deposits and notices, the application to Parliament, the passing Standing Orders
Committee, the first, second, and third readings: each of which brief heads indicates a multiplicity
of transactions, and the extra development of sundry occupations--as those of engineers, surveyors,
lithographers, parliamentary agents, share-brokers; and the creation of sundry others--as those
of traffic-takers, reference-takers. Consider, next, the yet more marked changes implied in
railway construction--the cuttings, embankings, tunnellings, diversions of roads; the building
of bridges and stations, the laying down of ballast, sleepers, and rails; the making of engines,
tenders, carriages, and waggons: which processes, acting on numerous trades, increase the importation
of timber, the quarrying of stone, the manufacture of iron, the mining of coal, the burning
of bricks; institute a variety of special manufactures weekly advertised in the Railway Times;
and, finally, open the way to sundry new occupations, as those of drivers, stokers, cleaners,
plate-layers, &c., &c. And then consider the changes, still more numerous and involved, which
railways in action produce on the community at large. Business agencies are established where
previously they would not have paid; goods are obtained from remote wholesale houses instead
of near retail ones; and commodities are used which distance once rendered inaccessible. Again,
the diminished cost of carriage tends to specialize more than ever the industries of different
districts--to confine each manufacture to the parts in which, from local advantages, it can
be best carried on. Further, the fall in freights, facilitating distribution, equalizes prices,
and also, on the average, lowers prices: thus bringing divers articles within the means of
those before unable to buy them, and so increasing their comforts and improving their habits.
At the same time the practice of travelling is immensely extended. People who never before
dreamed of it, take trips to the sea; visit their distant relations; make tours; and so we
are benefited in body, feelings, and ideas. The more prompt transmission of letters and of
news produces other marked changes--makes the pulse of the nation faster. Once more, there
arises a wide dissemination of cheap literature through railway book-stalls, and of advertisements
in railway carriages: both of them aiding ulterior progress. And the countless changes here
briefly indicated are consequent on the invention of the locomotive engine. The social organism
has been rendered more heterogeneous in virtue of the many new occupations introduced, and
the many old ones further specialized; prices of nearly all things in every place have been
altered; each trader has modified his way of doing business; and every person has been affected
in his actions, thoughts, emotions.

Illustrations to the same effect might be indefinitely accumulated, but they are needless.
The only further fact demanding notice, is, that we here see still more clearly the truth before
pointed out, that in proportion as the area on which any force expends itself becomes heterogeneous,
the results are in a yet higher degree multiplied in number and kind. While among the simple
tribes to whom it was first known, caoutchouc caused but few changes, among ourselves the changes
have been so many and varied that the history of them occupies a volume.[5] Upon the small,
homogeneous community inhabiting one of the Hebrides, the electric telegraph would produce,
were it used, scarcely any results; but in England the results it produces are multitudinous.
The comparatively simple organization under which our ancestors lived five centuries ago, could
have undergone but few modifications from an event like the recent one at Canton; but now,
the legislative decision respecting it sets up many hundreds of complex modifications, each
of which will be the parent of numerous future ones.

Space permitting, we could willingly have pursued the argument in relation to all the subtler
results of civilization. As before we showed that the law of progress to which the organic
and inorganic worlds conform, is also conformed to by Language, the plastic arts, Music, &c.;
so might we here show that the cause which we have hitherto found to determine progress holds
in these cases also. Instances might be given proving how, in Science, an advance of one division
presently advances other divisions--how Astronomy has been immensely forwarded by discoveries
in Optics, while other optical discoveries have initiated Microscopic Anatomy, and greatly
aided the growth of Physiology--how Chemistry has indirectly increased our knowledge of Electricity,
Magnetism, Biology, Geology--how Electricity has reacted on Chemistry and Magnetism, and has
developed our views of Light and Heat. In Literature the same truth might be exhibited in the
manifold effects of the primitive mystery-play, as originating the modern drama, which has
variously branched; or in the still multiplying forms of periodical literature which have descended
from the first newspaper, and which have severally acted and reacted on other forms of literature
and on each other. The influence which a new school of Painting--as that of the pre-Raphaelites--exercises
upon other schools; the hints which all kinds of pictorial art are deriving from Photography;
the complex results of new critical doctrines, as those of Mr. Ruskin, might severally be dwelt
upon as displaying the like multiplication of effects.

But we venture to think our case is already made out. The imperfections of statement which
brevity has necessitated, do not, we believe, invalidate the propositions laid down. The qualifications
here and there demanded would not, if made, affect the inferences. Though, in tracing the genesis
of progress, we have frequently spoken of complex causes as if they were simple ones; it still
remains true that such causes are far less complex than their results. Detailed criticisms
do not affect our main position. Endless facts go to show that every kind of progress is from
the homogeneous to the heterogeneous; and that it is so because each change is followed by
many changes. And it is significant that where the facts are most accessible and abundant,
there these truths are most manifest.

However, to avoid committing ourselves to more than is yet proved, we must be content with
saying that such are the law and the cause of all progress that is known to us. Should the
Nebular Hypothesis ever be established, then it will become manifest that the Universe at large,
like every organism, was once homogeneous; that as a whole, and in every detail, it has unceasingly
advanced towards greater heterogeneity. It will be seen that as in each event of to-day, so
from the beginning, the decomposition of every expended force into several forces has been
perpetually producing a higher complication; that the increase of heterogeneity so brought
about is still going on and must continue to go on; and that thus progress is not an accident,
not a thing within human control, but a beneficent necessity.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few words must be added on the ontological bearings of our argument. Probably not a few will
conclude that here is an attempted solution of the great questions with which Philosophy in
all ages has perplexed itself. Let none thus deceive themselves. After all that has been said,
the ultimate mystery remains just as it was. The explanation of that which is explicable, does
but bring out into greater clearness the inexplicableness of that which remains behind. Little
as it seems to do so, fearless inquiry tends continually to give a firmer basis to all true
Religion. The timid sectarian, obliged to abandon one by one the superstitions bequeathed to
him, and daily finding his cherished beliefs more and more shaken, secretly fears that all
things may some day be explained; and has a corresponding dread of Science: thus evincing the
profoundest of all infidelity--the fear lest the truth be bad. On the other hand, the sincere
man of science, content to follow wherever the evidence leads him, becomes by each new inquiry
more profoundly convinced that the Universe is an insoluble problem. Alike in the external
and the internal worlds, he sees himself in the midst of ceaseless changes, of which he can
discover neither beginning nor end. If, tracing back the evolution of things, he allows himself
to entertain the hypothesis that all matter once existed in a diffused form, he finds it impossible
to conceive how this came to be so; and equally, if he speculates on the future, he can assign
no limit to the grand succession of phenomena ever unfolding themselves before him. Similarly,
if he looks inward, he perceives that both terminations of the thread of consciousness are
beyond his grasp: he cannot remember when or how consciousness commenced, and he cannot examine
the consciousness at any moment existing; for only a state of consciousness which is already
past can become the object of thought, and never one which is passing. When, again, he turns
from the succession of phenomena, external or internal, to their essential nature, he is equally
at fault. Though he may succeed in resolving all properties of objects into manifestations
of force, he is not thereby enabled to conceive what force is; but finds, on the contrary,
that the more he thinks about it, the more he is baffled. Similarly, though analysis of mental
actions may finally bring him down to sensations as the original materials out of which all
thought is woven, he is none the forwarder; for he cannot in the least comprehend sensation.
Inward and outward things he thus discovers to be alike inscrutable in their ultimate genesis
and nature. He sees that the Materialist and Spiritualist controversy is a mere war of words;
the disputants being equally absurd--each believing he understands that which it is impossible
for any man to understand. In all directions his investigations eventually bring him face to
face with the unknowable; and he ever more clearly perceives it to be the unknowable. He learns
at once the greatness and the littleness of human intellect--its power in dealing with all
that comes within the range of experience; its impotence in dealing with all that transcends
experience. He feels more vividly than any others can feel, the utter incomprehensibleness
of the simplest fact, considered in itself. He alone truly sees that absolute knowledge is
impossible. He alone knows that under all things there lies an impenetrable mystery.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: Since this was written (in 1857) the advance of paleontological discovery, especially
in America, has shown conclusively, in respect of certain groups of vertebrates, that higher
types have arisen by modifications of lower; so that, in common with others, Prof. Huxley,
to whom the above allusion is made, now admits, or rather asserts, biological progression,
and, by implication, that there have arisen more heterogeneous organic forms and a more heterogeneous
assemblage of organic forms.]

[Footnote 3: For detailed proof of these assertions see essay on "Manners and Fashion."]

[Footnote 4: The argument concerning organic evolution contained in this paragraph and the
one preceding it, stands verbatim as it did when first published in the Westminster Review
for April, 1857. I have thus left it without the alteration of a word that it may show the
view I then held concerning the origin of species. The sole cause recognized is that of direct
adaptation of constitution to conditions consequent on inheritance of the modifications of
structure resulting from use and disuse. There is no recognition of that further cause disclosed
in Mr. Darwin's work, published two and a half years later--the indirect adaptation resulting
from the natural selection of favourable variations. The multiplication of effects is, however,
equally illustrated in whatever way the adaptation to changing conditions is effected, or if
it is effected in both ways, as I hold. I may add that there is indicated the view that the
succession of organic forms is not serial but proceeds by perpetual divergence and re-divergence--that
there has been a continual "divergence of many races from one race": each species being a "root"
from which several other species branch out; and the growth of a tree being thus the implied
symbol.]

[Footnote 5: "Personal Narrative of the Origin of the Caoutchouc, or India-Rubber Manufacture
in England." By Thomas Hancock.]

TRANSCENDENTAL PHYSIOLOGY.

    [First published in The National Review for October, 1857,
    under the title of "The Ultimate Laws of Physiology". The title
    "Transcendental Physiology", which the editor did not approve, was
    restored when the essay was re-published with others in 1857.]

The title Transcendental Anatomy is used to distinguish that division of biological science
which treats, not of the structures of individual organisms considered separately, but of the
general principles of structure common to vast and varied groups of organisms,--the unity of
plan discernible throughout multitudinous species, genera, and orders, which differ widely
in appearance. And here, under the head of Transcendental Physiology, we purpose putting together
sundry laws of development and function which hold not of particular kinds or classes of organisms,
but of all organisms: laws, some of which have not, we believe, been hitherto enunciated.

By way of unobtrusively introducing the general reader to biological truths of this class,
let us begin by noticing one or two with which he is familiar. Take first, the relation between
the activity of an organ and its growth. This is a universal relation. It holds, not only of
a bone, a muscle, a nerve, an organ of sense, a mental faculty; but of every gland, every viscus,
every element of the body. It is seen, not in man only, but in each animal which affords us
adequate opportunity of tracing it. Always providing that the performance of function is not
so excessive as to produce disorder, or to exceed the repairing powers either of the system
at large or of the particular agencies by which nutriment is brought to the organ,--always
providing this, it is a law of organized bodies that, other things equal, development varies
as function. On this law are based all maxims and methods of right education, intellectual,
moral, and physical; and when statesmen are wise enough to see it, this law will be found to
underlie all right legislation.

Another truth co-extensive with the organic world, is that of hereditary transmission. It is
not, as commonly supposed, that hereditary transmission is exemplified merely in re-appearance
of the family peculiarities displayed by immediate or remote progenitors. Nor does the law
of hereditary transmission comprehend only such more general facts as that modified plants
or animals become the parents of permanent varieties; and that new kinds of potatoes, new breeds
of sheep, new races of men, have been thus originated. These are but minor exemplifications
of the law. Understood in its entirety, the law is that each plant or animal produces others
of like kind with itself: the likeness of kind consisting not so much in the repetition of
individual traits as in the assumption of the same general structure. This truth has been made
by daily illustration so familiar as nearly to have lost its significance. That wheat produces
wheat,--that existing oxen are descended from ancestral oxen,--that every unfolding organism
ultimately takes the form of the class, order, genus, and species from which it sprang; is
a fact which, by force of repetition, has assumed in our minds the character of a necessity.
It is in this, however, that the law of hereditary transmission is principally displayed; the
phenomena commonly named as exemplifying it being quite subordinate manifestations. And the
law, as thus understood, is universal. Not forgetting the apparent, but only apparent, exceptions
presented by the strange class of phenomena known as "alternate generation," the truth that
like produces like is common to all types of organisms.

Let us take next a universal physiological law of a less conspicuous kind. To the ordinary
observer, it seems that the multiplication of organisms proceeds in various ways. He sees that
the young of the higher animals when born resemble their parents; that birds lay eggs, which
they foster and hatch; that fish deposit spawn and leave it. Among plants, he finds that while
in some cases new individuals grow from seeds only, in other cases they also grow from tubers;
that by certain plants layers are sent out, take root, and develop new individuals; and that
many plants can be reproduced from cuttings. Further, in the mould that quickly covers stale
food, and the infusoria that soon swarm in water exposed to air and light, he sees a mode of
generation which, seeming inexplicable, he is apt to consider "spontaneous." The reader of
popular science thinks the modes of reproduction still more various. He learns that whole tribes
of creatures multiply by gemmation--by a development from the body of the parent of buds which,
after unfolding into the parental form, separate and lead independent lives. Concerning microscopic
forms of both animal and vegetal life, he reads that the ordinary mode of multiplication is
by spontaneous fission--a splitting up of the original individual into two or more individuals,
which by and by severally repeat the process. Still more remarkable are the cases in which,
as in the Aphis, an egg gives rise to an imperfect female, from which other imperfect females
are born viviparously, grow, and in their turns bear other imperfect females; and so on for
eight, ten, or more generations, until finally, perfect males and females are viviparously
produced. But now under all these, and many more, modified modes of multiplication, the physiologist
finds complete uniformity. The starting-point, not only of every higher animal or plant, but
of every clan of organisms which by fission or gemmation have sprung from a single organism,
is always a spore, seed, or ovum. The millions of infusoria or of aphides which, by sub-division
or gemmation, have proceeded from one individual; the countless plants which have been successively
propagated from one original plant by cuttings or tubers; are, in common with the highest creature,
primarily descended from a fertilized germ. And in all cases--in the humblest alga as in the
oak, in the protozoon as in the mammal--this fertilized germ results from the union of the
contents of two cells. Whether, as among the lowest forms of life, these two cells are seemingly
identical in nature; or whether, as among higher forms, they are distinguishable into sperm-cell
and germ-cell; it remains throughout true that from their combination results the mass out
of which is evolved a new organism or new series of organisms. That this law is without exception
we are not prepared to say; for in the case of the Aphis certain experiments are thought to
imply that under special conditions the descendants of an original individual may continue
multiplying for ever, without further fecundation. But we know of no case where it actually
is so; for although there are certain plants of which the seeds have never been seen, it is
more probable that our observations are in fault than that these plants are exceptions. And
until we find undoubted exceptions, the above-stated induction must stand. Here, then, we have
another of the truths of Transcendental Physiology: a truth which, so far as we know, transcends
all distinctions of genus, order, class, kingdom, and applies to every living thing.

Yet another generalization of like universality expresses the process of organic development.
To the ordinary observer there seems no unity in this. No obvious parallelism exists between
the unfolding of a plant and the unfolding of an animal. There is no manifest similarity between
the development of a mammal, which proceeds without break from its first to its last stage,
and that of an insect, which is divided into strongly-marked stages--egg, larva, pupa, imago.
Nevertheless it is now an established fact, that all organisms are evolved after one general
method. At the outset the germ of every plant or animal is relatively homogeneous; and advance
towards maturity is advance towards greater heterogeneity. Each organized thing commences as
an almost structureless mass, and reaches its ultimate complexity by the establishment of distinctions
upon distinctions,--by the divergence of tissues from tissues and organs from organs. Here,
then, we have yet another biological law of transcendent generality.

Having thus recognized the scope of Transcendental Physiology as presented in its leading truths,
we are prepared for the considerations that are to follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

And first, returning to the last of the great generalizations above given, let us inquire more
nearly how this change from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous is carried on. Usually it
is said to result from successive differentiations. This, however, cannot be considered a complete
account of the process. During the evolution of an organism there occur, not only separations
of parts, but coalescences of parts. There is not only segregation, but aggregation. The heart,
at first a simple pulsating blood-vessel, by and by twists upon itself and becomes integrated.
The bile-cells constituting the rudimentary liver, do not merely diverge from the surface of
the intestine in which they at first form a simple layer; but they simultaneously consolidate
into a definite organ. And the gradual concentration seen in these and other cases is a part
of the developmental process--a part which, though more or less recognized by Milne-Edwards
and others, does not seem to have been included as an essential element in it.

This progressive integration, manifest alike when tracing up the several stages passed through
by every embryo, and when ascending from the lower organic forms to the higher, may be most
conveniently studied under several heads. Let us consider first what may be called longitudinal
integration.

The lower Annulosa--worms, myriapods, &c.--are characterized by the great numbers of segments
of which they respectively consist, reaching in some cases to several hundreds; but as we advance
to the higher Annulosa--centipedes, crustaceans, insects, spiders,--we find these numbers greatly
reduced, down to twenty-two, thirteen, and even fewer; and accompanying this there is a shortening
or integration of the whole body, reaching its extreme in crabs and spiders. Similarly with
the development of an individual crustacean or insect. The thorax of a lobster, which, in the
adult, forms, with the head, one compact box containing the viscera, is made up by the union
of a number of segments which in the embryo were separable. The thirteen distinct divisions
seen in the body of a caterpillar, become further integrated in the butterfly: several segments
are consolidated to form the thorax, and the abdominal segments are more aggregated than they
originally were. The like truth is seen when we pass to the internal organs. In the lower annulose
forms, and in the larvæ of the higher ones, the alimentary canal consists either of a tube
that is uniform from end to end, or else bulges into a succession of stomachs, one to each
segment; but in the developed forms there is a single well-defined stomach. In the nervous,
vascular, and respiratory systems a parallel concentration may be traced. Again, in the development
of the Vertebrata we have sundry examples of longitudinal integration. The coalescence of several
segmental groups of bones to form the skull is one instance of it. It is further illustrated
in the os coccygis, which results from the fusion of a number of caudal vertebræ. And in the
consolidation of the sacral vertebræ of a bird it is also well exemplified.

That which we may distinguish as transverse integration, is well illustrated among the Annulosa
in the development of the nervous system. Leaving out those simple forms which do not present
distinct ganglia, it is to be observed that the lower annulose animals, in common with the
larvæ of the higher, are severally characterized by a double chain of ganglia running from
end to end of the body; while in the more advanced annulose animals this double chain becomes
a single chain. Mr. Newport has described the course of this concentration in insects; and
by Rathke it has been traced in crustaceans. In the early stages of the Astacus fluviatilis,
or common cray-fish, there is a pair of separate ganglia to each ring. Of the fourteen pairs
belonging to the head and thorax, the three pairs in advance of the mouth consolidate into
one mass to form the brain, or cephalic ganglion. Meanwhile out of the remainder, the first
six pairs severally unite in the median line, while the rest remain more or less separate.
Of these six double ganglia thus formed, the anterior four coalesce into one mass; the remaining
two coalesce into another mass; and then these two masses coalesce into one. Here we see longitudinal
and transverse integration going on simultaneously; and in the highest crustaceans they are
both carried still further. The Vertebrata exhibit this transverse integration in the development
of the generative system. The lowest of the mammalia--the Monotremata--in common with birds,
have oviducts which towards their lower extremities are dilated into cavities severally performing
in an imperfect way the function of a uterus. "In the Marsupialia, there is a closer approximation
of the two lateral sets of organs on the median line; for the oviducts converge towards one
another and meet (without coalescing) on the median line; so that their uterine dilatations
are in contact with each other, forming a true 'double uterus.' ... As we ascend the series
of 'placental' mammals, we find the lateral coalescence becoming gradually more and more complete....
In many of the Rodentia, the uterus still remains completely divided into two lateral halves;
whilst in others, these coalesce at their lower portion, forming a rudiment of the true 'body'
of the uterus in the Human subject. This part increases at the expense of the lateral 'cornua'
in the higher Herbivora and Carnivora; but even in the lower Quadrumana, the uterus is somewhat
cleft at its summit."[6] And this process of transverse integration, which is still more striking
when observed in its details, is accompanied by parallel though less important changes in the
opposite sex. Once more; in the increasing commissural connexion of the cerebral hemispheres,
which, though separate in the lower vertebrata, become gradually more united in the higher,
we have another instance. And further ones of a different order, but of like general implication,
are supplied by the vascular system.

Now it seems to us that the various kinds of integration here exemplified, which are commonly
set down as so many independent phenomena, ought to be generalized, and included in the formula
describing the process of development. The fact that in an adult crab, many pairs of ganglia
originally separate have become fused into a single mass, is a fact only second in significance
to the differentiation of its alimentary canal into stomach and intestine. That in the higher
Annulosa, a single heart replaces the string of rudimentary hearts constituting the dorsal
blood-vessel in the lower Annulosa, (reaching in one species to the number of one hundred and
sixty), is a truth as much needing to be comprised in the history of evolution, as is the formation
of a respiratory surface by a branched expansion of the skin. A right conception of the genesis
of a vertebral column, includes not only the differentiations from which result the chorda
dorsalis and the vertebral segments imbedded in it; but quite as much it includes the coalescence
of numerous vertebral processes with their respective vertebral bodies. The changes in virtue
of which several things become one, demand recognition equally with those in virtue of which
one thing becomes several. Evidently, then, the current statement which ascribes the developmental
progress to differentiations alone, is incomplete. Adequately to express the facts, we must
say that the transition from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous is carried on by differentiations
and accompanying integrations.

It may not be amiss here to ask--What is the meaning of these integrations? The evidence seems
to show that they are in some way dependent on community of function. The eight segments which
coalesce to make the head of a centipede, jointly protect the cephalic ganglion, and afford
a solid fulcrum for the jaws, &c. The many bones which unite to form a vertebral skull have
like uses. In the consolidation of the several pieces which constitute a mammalian pelvis,
and in the anchylosis of from ten to nineteen vertebræ in the sacrum of a bird, we have kindred
instances of the integration of parts which transfer the weight of the body to the legs. The
more or less extensive fusion of the tibia with the fibula and the radius with the ulna in
the ungulated mammals, whose habits require only partial rotations of the limbs, is a fact
of like meaning. And all the instances lately given--the concentration of ganglia, the replacement
of many pulsating blood-sacs by fewer and finally by one, the fusion of two uteri into a single
uterus--have the same implication. Whether, as in some cases, the integration is merely a consequence
of the growth which eventually brings into contact adjacent parts performing similar duties;
or whether, as in other cases, there is an actual approximation of these parts before their
union; or whether, as in yet other cases, the integration is of that indirect kind which arises
when, out of a number of like organs, one, or a group, discharges an ever-increasing share
of the common function, and so grows while the rest dwindle and disappear;--the general fact
remains the same, that there is a tendency to the unification of parts having similar duties.

The tendency, however, acts under limiting conditions; and recognition of them will explain
some apparent exceptions. In the human foetus, as in the lower vertebrata, the eyes are placed
one on each side of the head. During evolution they become relatively nearer, and at birth
are in front; though they are still, in the European infant as in the adult Mongol, proportionately
further apart than they afterwards become. But this approximation shows no signs of further
increase. Two reasons suggest themselves. One is that the two eyes have not quite the same
function, since they are directed to slightly-different aspects of each object looked at; and,
since the resulting binocular vision has an advantage over monocular vision, there results
a check upon further approach towards identity of function and unity of structure. The other
reason is that the interposed structures do not admit of any nearer approach. For the orbits
of the eyes to be brought closer together, would imply a decrease in the olfactory chambers;
and as these are probably not larger than is demanded by their present functional activity,
no decrease can take place. Again, if we trace up the external organs of smell through fishes,[7]
reptiles, ungulate mammals and unguiculate mammals, to man, we perceive a general tendency
to coalescence in the median line; and on comparing the savage with the civilized, or the infant
with the adult, we see this approach of the nostrils carried furthest in the most perfect of
the species. But since the septum which divides them has the function both of an evaporating
surface for the lachrymal secretion, and of a ramifying surface for a nerve ancillary to that
of smell, it does not disappear entirely: the integration remains incomplete. These and other
like instances do not however militate against the hypothesis. They merely show that the tendency
is sometimes antagonized by other tendencies. Bearing in mind which qualification, we may say,
that as differentiation of parts is connected with difference of function, so there appears
to be a connexion between integration of parts and sameness of function.

       *       *       *       *       *

Closely related to the general truth that the evolution of all organisms is carried on by combined
differentiations and integrations, is another general truth, which physiologists appear not
to have recognized. When we look at the organic world as a whole, we may observe that, on passing
from lower to higher forms, we pass to forms which are not only characterized by a greater
differentiation of parts, but are at the same time more completely differentiated from the
surrounding medium. This truth may be contemplated under various aspects.

In the first place it is illustrated in structure. The advance from the homogeneous to the
heterogeneous itself involves an increasing distinction from the inorganic world. In the lowest
Protozoa, as some of the Rhizopods, we have a homogeneity approaching to that of air, water,
or earth; and the ascent to organisms of greater and greater complexity of structure, is an
ascent to organisms which are in that respect more strongly contrasted with the relatively
structureless masses in the environment.

In form again we see the same truth. A general characteristic of inorganic matter is its indefiniteness
of form, and this is also a characteristic of the lower organisms, as compared with the higher.
Speaking generally, plants are less definite than animals, both in shape and size--admit of
greater modifications from variations of position and nutrition. Among animals, the Amoeba
and its allies are not only almost structureless, but are amorphous; and the irregular form
is constantly changing. Of the organisms resulting from the aggregation of amoeba-like creatures,
we find that while some assume a certain definiteness of form, in their compound shells at
least, others, as the Sponges, are irregular. In the Zoophytes and in the Polyzoa, we see compound
organisms, most of which have modes of growth not more determinate than those of plants. But
among the higher animals, we find not only that the mature shape of each species is quite definite,
but that the individuals of each species differ very little in size.

A parallel increase of contrast is seen in chemical composition. With but few exceptions, and
those only partial ones, the lowest animal and vegetal forms are inhabitants of the water;
and water is almost their sole constituent. Dessicated Protophyta and Protozoa shrink into
mere dust; and among the acalephes we find but a few grains of solid matter to a pound of water.
The higher aquatic plants, in common with the higher aquatic animals, possessing as they do
much greater tenacity of substance, also contain a greater proportion of the organic elements;
and so are chemically more unlike their medium. And when we pass to the superior classes of
organisms--land plants and land animals--we find that, chemically considered, they have little
in common either with the earth on which they stand or the air which surrounds them.

In specific gravity, too, we may note the like. The very simplest forms, in common with the
spores and gemmules of the higher ones, are as nearly as may be of the same specific gravity
as the water in which they float; and though it cannot be said that among aquatic creatures
superior specific gravity is a standard of general superiority, yet we may fairly say that
the superior orders of them, when divested of the appliances by which their specific gravity
is regulated, differ more from water in their relative weights than do the lower. In terrestrial
organisms, the contrast becomes extremely marked. Trees and plants, in common with insects,
reptiles, mammals, birds, are all of a specific gravity considerably less than the earth and
immensely greater than the air.

We see the law similarly fulfilled in respect of temperature. Plants generate but an extremely
small quantity of heat, which is to be detected only by delicate experiments; and practically
they may be considered as being in this respect like their environment. Aquatic animals rise
very little above the surrounding water in temperature: that of the invertebrata being mostly
less than a degree above it, and that of fishes not exceeding it by more than two or three
degrees, save in the case of some large red-blooded fishes, as the tunny, which exceed it by
nearly ten degrees. Among insects, the range is from two to ten degrees above that of the air:
the excess varying according to their activity. The heat of reptiles is from four to fifteen
degrees more than that of their medium. While mammals and birds maintain a heat which continues
almost unaffected by external variations, and is often greater than that of the air by seventy,
eighty, ninety, and even a hundred degrees.

Once more, in greater self-mobility a progressive differentiation is traceable. Dead matter
is inert: some form of independent motion is our most general test of life. Passing over the
indefinite border-land between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, we may roughly class plants
as organisms which, while they exhibit the kind of motion implied in growth, are not only without
locomotive power, but in nearly all cases are without the power of moving their parts in relation
to one another; and thus are less differentiated from the inorganic world than animals. Though
in those microscopic Protophyta and Protozoa inhabiting the water--the spores of algæ, the
gemmules of sponges, and the infusoria generally--we see locomotion produced by ciliary action;
yet this locomotion, while rapid relatively to their sizes, is absolutely slow. Of the Coelenterata,
a great part are either permanently rooted or habitually stationary, and so have scarcely any
self-mobility but that implied in the relative movements of parts; while the rest, of which
the common jelly-fish serves as a sample, have mostly but little ability to move themselves
through the water. Among the higher aquatic Invertebrata,--cuttle-fishes and lobsters, for
instance,--there is a very considerable power of locomotion; and the aquatic Vertebrata are,
considered as a class, much more active in their movements than the other inhabitants of the
water. But it is only when we come to air-breathing creatures that we find the vital characteristic
of self-mobility manifested in the highest degree. Flying insects, mammals, birds, travel with
velocities far exceeding those attained by any of the lower classes of animals; and so are
more strongly contrasted with their inert environments.

Thus, on contemplating the various grades of organisms in their ascending order, we find them
more and more distinguished from their inanimate media in structure, in form, in chemical composition,
in specific gravity, in temperature, in self-mobility. It is true that this generalization
does not hold with regularity. Organisms which are in some respects the most strongly contrasted
with the inorganic world, are in other respects less contrasted than inferior organisms. As
a class, mammals are higher than birds; and yet they are of lower temperature, and have smaller
powers of locomotion. The stationary oyster is of higher organization than the free-swimming
medusa; and the cold-blooded and less heterogeneous fish is quicker in its movements than the
warm-blooded and more heterogeneous sloth. But the admission that the several aspects under
which this increasing contrast shows itself bear variable ratios to one another, does not negative
the general truth enunciated. Looking at the facts in the mass, it cannot be denied that the
successively higher groups of organisms are severally characterized, not only by greater differentiation
of parts, but also by greater differentiation from the surrounding medium in sundry other physical
attributes. It would seem that this peculiarity has some necessary connexion with superior
vital manifestations. One of those lowly gelatinous forms which are some of them so transparent
and colourless as to be with difficulty distinguished from the water they float in, is not
more like its medium in chemical, mechanical, optical, thermal, and other properties, than
it is in the passivity with which it submits to all the actions brought to bear on it; while
the mammal does not more widely differ from inanimate things in these properties than it does
in the activity with which it meets surrounding changes by compensating changes in itself.
Between these two extremes, we see a tolerably constant ratio between these two kinds of contrast.
In proportion as an organism is physically like its environment it remains a passive partaker
of the changes going on in its environment; while in proportion as it is endowed with powers
of counteracting such changes, it exhibits greater unlikeness to its environment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus far we have proceeded inductively, in conformity with established usage; but it seems
to us that much may be done in this and other departments of biologic inquiry by pursuing the
deductive method. The generalizations at present constituting the science of physiology, both
general and special, have been reached a posteriori; but certain fundamental data have now
been discovered, starting from which we may reason our way a priori, not only to some of the
truths that have been ascertained by observation and experiment, but also to some others. The
possibility of such a priori conclusions will be at once recognized on considering some familiar
cases.

Chemists have shown that a necessary condition to vital activity in animals is oxidation of
certain matters contained in the body either as components or as waste products. The oxygen
requisite for this oxidation is contained in the surrounding medium--air or water, as the case
may be. If the organism be minute, mere contact of its external surface with the oxygenated
medium achieves the requisite oxidation; but if the organism is bulky, and so exposes a surface
which is small in proportion to its mass, any considerable oxidation cannot be thus achieved.
One of two things is therefore implied. Either this bulky organism, receiving no oxygen but
that absorbed through its integument, must possess but little vital activity; or else, if it
possesses much vital activity, there must be some extensive ramified surface, internal or external,
through which adequate aeration may take place--a respiratory apparatus. That is to say, lungs,
or gills, or branchiæ, or their equivalents, are predicable a priori as possessed by all active
creatures of any size.

Similarly with respect to nutriment. There are entozoa which, living in the insides of other
animals, and being constantly bathed by nutritive fluids, absorb a sufficiency through their
outer surfaces; and so have no need of stomachs, and do not possess them. But all other animals,
inhabiting media that are not in themselves nutritive, but only contain masses of food here
and there, must have appliances by which these masses of food may be utilized. Evidently mere
external contact of a solid organism with a solid portion of nutriment, could not result in
the absorption of it in any moderate time, if at all. To effect absorption, there must be both
a solvent or macerating action, and an extended surface fit for containing and imbibing the
dissolved products: there must be a digestive cavity. Thus, given the ordinary conditions of
animal life, and the possession of stomachs by all creatures living under these conditions
may be deductively known.

Carrying out the train of reasoning still further, we may infer the existence of a vascular
system or something equivalent to it, in all creatures of any size and activity. In a comparatively
small inert animal, such as the hydra, which consists of little more than a sac having a double
wall--an outer layer of cells forming the skin, and an inner layer forming the digestive and
absorbent surface--there is no need for a special apparatus to diffuse through the body the
aliment taken up; for the body is little more than a wrapper to the food it encloses. But where
the bulk is considerable, or where the activity is such as to involve much waste and repair,
or where both these characteristics exist, there is a necessity for a system of blood-vessels.
It is not enough that there be adequately extensive surfaces for absorption and aeration; for
in the absence of any means of conveyance, the absorbed elements can be of little or no use
to the organism at large. Evidently there must be channels of communication. When, as in the
Medusæ, we find these channels of communication consisting simply of branched canals opening
out of the stomach and spreading through the disk, we may know, a priori, that such creatures
are comparatively inactive; seeing that the nutritive liquid thus partially distributed throughout
their bodies is crude and dilute, and that there is no efficient appliance for keeping it in
motion. Conversely, when we meet with a creature of considerable size which displays much vivacity,
we may know, a priori, that it must have an apparatus for the unceasing supply of concentrated
nutriment, and of oxygen, to every organ--a pulsating vascular system.

It is manifest, then, that setting out from certain known fundamental conditions to vital activity,
we may deduce from them sundry of the chief characteristics of organized bodies. Doubtless
these known fundamental conditions have been inductively established. But what we wish to show
is that, given these inductively-established primary facts in physiology, we may with safety
draw certain general deductions from them. And, indeed, the legitimacy of such deductions,
though not formally acknowledged, is practically recognized in the convictions of every physiologist,
as may be readily proved. Thus, were a physiologist to find a creature exhibiting complex and
variously co-ordinated movements, and yet having no nervous system; he would be less astonished
at the breach of his empirical generalization that all such creatures have nervous systems,
than at the disproof of his unconscious deduction that all creatures exhibiting complex and
variously co-ordinated movements must have an "internuncial" apparatus by which the co-ordination
may be effected. Or were he to find a creature having blood rapidly circulated and rapidly
aerated, but yet showing a low temperature, the proof so afforded that active change of matter
is not, as he had inferred from chemical data, the cause of animal heat, would stagger him
more than would the exception to a constantly-observed relation. Clearly, then, the a priori
method already plays a part in physiological reasoning. If not ostensibly employed as a means
of reaching new truths, it is at least privately appealed to for confirmation of truths reached
a posteriori.

But the illustrations above given go far to show, that it may to a considerable extent be safely
used as an independent instrument of research. The necessities for a nutritive system, a respiratory
system, and a vascular system, in all animals of size and vivacity, seem to us legitimately
inferable from the conditions to continued vital activity. Given the physical and chemical
data, and these structural peculiarities may be deduced with as much certainty as may the hollowness
of an iron ball from its power of floating in water.

It is not, of course, asserted that the more special physiological truths can be deductively
reached. The argument by no means implies this. Legitimate deduction presupposes adequate data;
and in respect to the special phenomena of organic growth, structure, and function, adequate
data are unattainable, and will probably ever remain so. It is only in the case of the more
general physiological truths, such as those above instanced, where we have something like adequate
data, that deductive reasoning becomes possible.

And here is reached the stage to which the foregoing considerations are introductory. We propose
now to show that there are certain still more general attributes of organized bodies, which
are deducible from certain still more general attributes of things.

       *       *       *       *       *

In an essay on "Progress: its Law and Cause," elsewhere published,[8] we have endeavoured to
show that the transformation of the homogeneous into the heterogeneous, in which all progress,
organic or other, essentially consists, is consequent on the production of many effects by
one cause--many changes by one force. Having pointed out that this is a law of all things,
we proceeded to show deductively that the multiform evolutions of the homogeneous into the
heterogeneous--astronomic, geologic, ethnologic, social, &c.,--were explicable as consequences.
And though in the case of organic evolution, lack of data disabled us from specifically tracing
out the progressive complication as due to the multiplication of effects; yet, we found sundry
indirect evidences that it was so. Now in so far as this conclusion, that organic evolution
results from the decomposition of each expended force into several forces, was inferred from
the general law previously pointed out, it was an example of deductive physiology. The particular
was concluded from the universal.

We here propose in the first place to show, that there is another general truth closely connected
with the above; and in common with it underlying explanations of all progress, and therefore
the progress of organisms--a truth which may indeed be considered as taking precedence of it
in respect of time, if not in respect of generality. This truth is, that the condition of homogeneity
is a condition of unstable equilibrium.

The phrase unstable equilibrium is one used in mechanics to express a balance of forces of
such kind, that the interference of any further force, however minute, will destroy the arrangement
previously existing, and bring about a different arrangement. Thus, a stick poised on its lower
end is in unstable equilibrium: however exactly it may be placed in a perpendicular position,
as soon as it is left to itself it begins, at first imperceptibly and then visibly, to lean
on one side, and with increasing rapidity falls into another position. Conversely, a stick
suspended from its upper end is in stable equilibrium: however much disturbed, it will return
to the same position. Our meaning is, then, that the state of homogeneity, like the state of
the stick poised on its lower end, is one that cannot be maintained; and that hence results
the first step in its gravitation towards the heterogeneous. Let us take a few illustrations.

Of mechanical ones the most familiar is that of the scales. If accurately made and not clogged
by dirt or rust, a pair of scales cannot be perfectly balanced: eventually one scale will descend
and the other ascend--they will assume a heterogeneous relation. Again, if we sprinkle over
the surface of a liquid a number of equal-sized particles, having an attraction for one another,
they will, no matter how uniformly distributed, by and by concentrate irregularly into groups.
Were it possible to bring a mass of water into a state of perfect homogeneity--a state of complete
quiescence, and exactly equal density throughout--yet the radiation of heat from neighbouring
bodies, by affecting differently its different parts, would soon produce inequalities of density
and consequent currents; and would so render it to that extent heterogeneous. Take a piece
of red-hot matter, and however evenly heated it may at first be, it will quickly cease to be
so: the exterior, cooling faster than the interior, will become different in temperature from
it. And the lapse into heterogeneity of temperature, so obvious in this extreme case, is ever
taking place more or less in all cases. The actions of chemical forces supply other illustrations.
Expose a fragment of metal to air or water, and in course of time it will be coated with a
film of oxide, carbonate, or other compound: its outer parts will become unlike its inner parts.
Thus, every homogeneous aggregate of matter tends to lose its balance in some way or other--either
mechanically, chemically, thermally or electrically; and the rapidity with which it lapses
into a non-homogeneous state is simply a question of time and circumstances. Social bodies
illustrate the law with like constancy. Endow the members of a community with equal properties,
positions, powers, and they will forthwith begin to slide into inequalities. Be it in a representative
assembly, a railway board, or a private partnership, the homogeneity, though it may continue
in name, inevitably disappears in reality.

The instability thus variously illustrated becomes still more manifest if we consider its rationale.
It is consequent on the fact that the several parts of any homogeneous mass are necessarily
exposed to different forces--forces which differ either in their kinds or amounts; and being
exposed to different forces they are of necessity differently modified. The relations of outside
and inside, and of comparative nearness to neighbouring sources of influence, imply the reception
of influences which are unlike in quantity or quality or both; and it follows that unlike changes
will be wrought in the parts dissimilarly acted upon. The unstable equilibrium of any homogeneous
aggregate can thus be shown both inductively and deductively.

And now let us consider the bearing of this general truth on the evolution of organisms. The
germ of a plant or animal is one of these homogeneous aggregates--relatively homogeneous if
not absolutely so--whose equilibrium is unstable. But it has not simply the ordinary instability
of homogeneous aggregates: it has something more. For it consists of units which are themselves
specially characterized by instability. The constituent molecules of organic matter are distinguished
by the feebleness of the affinities which hold their component elements together. They are
extremely sensitive to heat, light, electricity, and the chemical actions of foreign elements;
that is, they are peculiarly liable to be modified by disturbing forces. Hence then it follows,
a priori, that a homogeneous aggregate of these unstable molecules will have an excessive tendency
to lose its equilibrium. It will have a quite special liability to lapse into a non-homogeneous
state. It will rapidly gravitate towards heretogeneity.

Moreover, the process must repeat itself in each of the subordinate groups of organic units
which are differentiated by the modifying forces. Each of these subordinate groups, like the
original group, must gradually, in obedience to the influences acting on it, lose its balance
of parts--must pass from a uniform into a multiform state. And so on continuously.

Thus, starting from the general laws of things, and the known chemical attributes of organic
matter, we may conclude deductively that the homogeneous germs of organisms have a peculiar
proclivity towards a non-homogeneous state; which may be either the state we call decomposition,
or the state we call organization.

       *       *       *       *       *

At present we have reached a conclusion only of the most general nature. We merely learn that
some kind of heterogeneity is inevitable; but as yet there is nothing to tell us what kind.
Besides that orderly heterogeneity which distinguishes organisms, there is the disorderly or
chaotic heterogeneity, into which a loose mass of inorganic matter lapses; and at present no
reason has been given why the homogeneous germ of a plant or animal should not lapse into the
disorderly instead of the orderly heterogeneity. But by pursuing still further the line of
argument hitherto followed we shall find a reason.

We have seen that the instability of homogeneous aggregates in general, and of organic ones
in particular, is consequent on the various ways and degrees in which their constituent parts
are exposed to the disturbing forces brought to bear on them: their parts are differently acted
upon, and therefore become different. Manifestly, then, a rationale of the special changes
which a germ undergoes, must be sought in the particular relations which its several parts
bear to each other and to their environment. However it may be masked, we may suspect the fundamental
principle of organization to be, that the many like units forming a germ acquire those kinds
and degrees of unlikeness which their respective positions entail.

Take a mass of unorganized but organizable matter--either the body of one of the lowest living
forms, or the germ of one of the higher. Consider its circumstances. It is immersed in water
or air; or it is contained within a parent organism. Wherever placed, however, its outer and
inner parts stand differently related to surrounding existences--nutriment, oxygen, and the
various stimuli. But this is not all. Whether it lies quiescent at the bottom of the water,
whether it moves through the water preserving some definite attitude, or whether it is in the
inside of an adult; it equally results that certain parts of its surface are more directly
exposed to surrounding agencies than other parts--in some cases more exposed to light, heat,
or oxygen, and in others to the maternal tissues and their contents. The destruction of its
original equilibrium is therefore certain. It may take place in one of two ways. Either the
disturbing forces may be such as to overbalance the affinities of the organic elements, in
which case there results that chaotic heterogeneity known as decomposition; or, as is ordinarily
the case, such changes are induced as do not destroy the organic compounds, but only modify
them: the parts most exposed to the modifying forces being most modified. Hence result those
first differentiations which constitute incipient organization. From the point of view thus
reached, suppose we look at a few cases: neglecting for the present all consideration of the
tendency to assume the inherited type.

Note first what appear to be exceptions, as the Amoeba. In this creature and its allies, the
substance of the jelly-like body remains throughout life unorganized--undergoes no permanent
differentiations. But this fact, which seems directly opposed to our inference, is really one
of the most significant evidences of its truth. For what is the peculiarity of the Rhizopods,
exemplified by the Amoeba? They undergo perpetual and irregular changes of shape--they show
no persistent relations of parts. What lately formed a portion of the interior is now protruded,
and, as a temporary limb, is attached to some object it happens to touch. What is now a part
of the surface will presently be drawn, along with the atom of nutriment sticking to it, into
the centre of the mass. Thus there is an unceasing interchange of places; and the relations
of inner and outer have no settled existence. But by the hypothesis, it is only in virtue of
their unlike positions with respect to modifying forces, that the originally-like units of
a living mass become unlike. We must not therefore expect any established differentiation of
parts in creatures which exhibit no established differences of position in their parts.

This negative evidence is borne out by abundant positive evidence. When we turn from these
ever-changing specks of living jelly to organisms having unchanging distributions of substance,
we find differences of tissue corresponding to differences of relative position. In all the
higher Protozoa, as also in the Protophyta, we meet with a fundamental differentiation into
cell-membrane and cell-contents, answering to that fundamental contrast of conditions implied
by the words outside and inside. And on passing from what are roughly classed as unicellular
organisms to the lowest of those which consist of aggregated cells, we equally observe the
connexion between structural differences and differences of circumstance. In the sponge, permeated
throughout by currents of sea-water, the absence of definite organization corresponds with
the absence of definite unlikeness of conditions. In the Thalassicolla of Professor Huxley--a
transparent, colourless body, found floating passively at the surface of the sea, and consisting
essentially of "a mass of cells united by jelly"--there is displayed a rude structure obviously
subordinated to the primary relations of centre and surface: in all of its many and important
varieties, the parts exhibit a more or less concentric arrangement.

After this primary modification, by which the outer tissues are differentiated from the inner,
the next in order of constancy and importance is that by which some part of the outer tissues
is differentiated from the rest; and this corresponds with the almost universal fact that some
part of the outer tissues is more directly exposed to certain environing influences than the
rest. Here, as before, the apparent exceptions are extremely significant. Some of the lowest
vegetable organisms, as the Hematococci and Protococci, evenly imbedded in a mass of mucus,
or dispersed through the Arctic snow, display no differentiations of surface: the several parts
of the surface being subjected to no definite contrasts of conditions. The Thalassicolla above
mentioned, unfixed, and rolled about by the waves, presents all its sides successively to the
same agencies; and all its sides are alike. A ciliated sphere like the Volvox has no parts
of its periphery unlike other parts; and it is not to be expected that it should have; seeing
that as it revolves in all directions, it does not, in traversing the water, permanently expose
any part to special conditions. But when we come to creatures that are either fixed, or while
moving, severally preserve a definite attitude, we no longer find uniformity of surface. The
gemmule of a Zoophyte, which during its locomotive stage is distinguishable only into outer
and inner tissues, no sooner takes root than its upper end begins to assume a different structure
from its lower. The free-swimming embryo of an aquatic annelid, being ovate and not ciliated
all over, moves with one end foremost; and its differentiations proceed in conformity with
this contrast of circumstances.

The principle thus displayed in the humbler forms of life, is traceable during the development
of the higher; though being here soon masked by the assumption of the hereditary type, it cannot
be traced far. Thus the "mulberry-mass" into which a fertilized ovum of a vertebrate animal
first resolves itself, soon begins to exhibit a difference between the outer and inner parts
answering to the difference of circumstances. The peripheral cells, after reaching a more complete
development than the central ones, coalesce into a membrane enclosing the rest; and then the
cells lying next to these outer ones become aggregated with them, and increase the thickness
of the germinal membrane, while the central cells liquefy. Again, one part of the germinal
membrane presently becomes distinguishable as the germinal spot; and without asserting that
the cause of this is to be found in the unlike relations which the respective parts of the
germinal membrane bear to environing influences, it is clear that we have in these unlike relations
an element of disturbance tending to destroy the original homogeneity of the germinal membrane.
Further, the germinal membrane by and by divides into two layers, internal and external; the
one in contact with the liquefied interior part or yelk, the other exposed to the surrounding
fluids: this contrast of circumstances being in obvious correspondence with the contrast of
structures which follows it. Once more, the subsequent appearance of the vascular layer between
these mucous and serous layers, as they have been named, admits of a like interpretation. And
in this and the various complications which now begin to show themselves, we may see coming
into play that general law of the multiplication of effects flowing from one cause, to which
the increase of heterogeneity was elsewhere ascribed.[9]

Confining our remarks, as we do, to the most general facts of development, we think that some
light is thus thrown on them. That the unstable equilibrium of a homogeneous germ must be destroyed
by the unlike exposure of its several units to surrounding influences, is an a priori conclusion.
And it seems also to be an a priori conclusion, that the several units thus differently acted
upon, must either be decomposed, or must undergo such modifications of nature as may enable
them to live in the respective circumstances they are thrown into: in other words--they must
either die or become adapted to their conditions. Indeed, we might infer as much without going
through the foregoing train of reasoning. The superficial organic units (be they the outer
cells of a "mulberry-mass," or be they the outer molecules of an individual cell) must assume
the function which their position necessitates; and assuming this function, must acquire such
character as performance of it involves. The layer of organic units lying in contact with the
yelk must be those through which the yelk is absorbed; and so must be adapted to the absorbent
office. On this condition only does the process of organization appear possible. We might almost
say that just as some race of animals, which multiplies and spreads into divers regions of
the earth, becomes differentiated into several races through the adaptation of each to its
conditions of life; so, the originally homogeneous population of cells arising in a fertilized
germ-cell, becomes divided into several populations of cells that grow unlike in virtue of
the unlikeness of their circumstances.

Moreover, it is to be remarked in further proof of our position, that it finds its clearest
and most abundant illustrations where the conditions of the case are the simplest and most
general--where the phenomena are the least involved: we mean in the production of individual
cells. The structures which presently arise round nuclei in a blastema, and which have in some
way been determined by those nuclei as centres of influence, evidently conform to the law;
for the parts of the blastema in contact with the nuclei are differently conditioned from the
parts not in contact with them. Again, the formation of a membrane round each of the masses
of granules into which the endochrome of an alga-cell breaks up, is an instance of analogous
kind. And should the recently-asserted fact that cells may arise round vacuoles in a mass of
organizable substance, be confirmed, another good example will be furnished; for such portions
of substance as bound these vacant spaces are subject to influences unlike those to which other
portions of the substance are subject. If then we can most clearly trace this law of modification
in these primordial processes, as well as in those more complex but analogous ones exhibited
in the early changes of an ovum, we have strong reason for thinking that the law is fundamental.

But, as already more than once hinted, this principle, understood in the simple form here presented,
supplies no key to the detailed phenomena of organic development. It fails entirely to explain
generic and specific peculiarities; and leaves us equally in the dark respecting those more
important distinctions by which families and orders are marked out. Why two ova, similarly
exposed in the same pool, should become the one a fish, and the other a reptile, it cannot
tell us. That from two different eggs placed under the same hen, should respectively come forth
a duckling and a chicken, is a fact not to be accounted for on the hypothesis above developed.
Here we are obliged to fall back upon the unexplained principle of hereditary transmission.
The capacity possessed by an unorganized germ of unfolding into a complex adult which repeats
ancestral traits in minute details, and that even when it has been placed in conditions unlike
those of its ancestors, is a capacity impossible for us to understand. That a microscopic portion
of seemingly structureless matter should embody an influence of such kind, that the resulting
man will in fifty years after become gouty or insane, is a truth which would be incredible
were it not daily illustrated. But though the manner in which hereditary likeness, in all its
complications, is conveyed, is a mystery passing comprehension, it is quite conceivable that
it is conveyed in subordination to the law of adaptation above explained; and we are not without
reasons for thinking that it is so. Various facts show that acquired peculiarities resulting
from the adaptation of constitution to conditions, are transmissible to offspring. Such acquired
peculiarities consist of differences of structure or composition in one or more of the tissues.
That is to say, of the aggregate of similar organic units composing a germ, the group going
to the formation of a particular tissue, will take on the special character which the adaptation
of that tissue to new circumstances had produced in the parents. We know this to be a general
law of organic modifications. Further, it is the only law of organic modifications of which
we have any evidence.[10] It is not impossible then that it is the universal law; comprehending
not simply those minor modifications which offspring inherit from recent ancestry, but comprehending
also those larger modifications distinctive of species, genus, order, class, which they inherit
from antecedent races of organisms. And thus it may be that the law of adaptation is the sole
law; presiding not only over the differentiation of any race of organisms into several races,
but also over the differentiation of the race of organic units composing a germ, into the many
races of organic units composing an adult. So understood, the process gone through by every
unfolding organism will consist, partly in the direct adaptation of its elements to their several
circumstances, and partly in the assumption of characters resulting from analogous adaptations
of the elements of all ancestral organisms.

But our argument does not commit us to any such far-reaching speculation as this; which we
introduce simply as suggested by it, not involved. All we are here concerned to show, is, that
the deductive method aids us in interpreting some of the more general phenomena of development.
That all homogeneous aggregates are in unstable equilibrium is a universal truth, from which
is deducible the instability of every organic germ. From the known sensitiveness of organic
compounds to chemical, thermal, and other disturbing forces, we further infer the unusual instability
of every organic germ--a proneness far beyond that of other homogeneous aggregates to lapse
into a heterogeneous state. By the same line of reasoning we are led to the additional inference,
that the first divisions into which a germ resolves itself, being severally in a state of unstable
equilibrium, are similarly prone to undergo further changes; and so on continuously. Moreover,
we have found it to be equally an a priori conclusion, that as, in all other cases, the loss
of homogeneity is due to the different degrees and kinds of force brought to bear on the different
parts; so, in this case too, difference of circumstances is the primary cause of differentiation.
Add to which, that as the several changes undergone by the respective parts thus diversely
acted upon, are changes which do not destroy their vital activity, they must be changes which
bring that vital activity into subordination to the incident forces--they must be adaptations;
and the like must be in some sense true of all the subsequent changes. Thus by deductive reasoning
we get some insight into the method of organization. However unable we are, and probably ever
shall be, to comprehend the way in which a germ is made to take on the special form of its
race, we may yet comprehend the general principles which regulate its first modifications;
and, remembering the unity of plan so conspicuous throughout nature, we may suspect that these
principles are in some way concerned in succeeding modifications.

       *       *       *       *       *

A controversy now going on among zoologists, opens yet another field for the application of
the deductive method. We believe that the question whether there does or does not exist a necessary
correlation among the several parts of an organism is determinable a priori.

Cuvier, who first asserted this necessary correlation, professed to base his restorations of
extinct animals upon it. Geoffroy St. Hilaire and De Blainville, from different points of view,
contested Cuvier's hypothesis; and the discussion, which has much interest as bearing on paleontology,
has been recently revived under a somewhat modified form: Professors Huxley and Owen being
respectively the assailant and defender of the hypothesis.

Cuvier says--"Comparative anatomy possesses a principle whose just development is sufficient
to dissipate all difficulties; it is that of the correlation of forms in organized beings,
by means of which every kind of organized being might, strictly speaking, be recognized by
a fragment of any of its parts. Every organized being constitutes a whole, a single and complete
system, whose parts mutually correspond and concur by their reciprocal reaction to the same
definite end. None of these parts can be changed without affecting the others; and consequently
each taken separately, indicates and gives all the rest." He then gives illustrations: arguing
that the carnivorous form of tooth necessitating a certain action of the jaw, implies a particular
form in its condyles; implies also limbs fit for seizing and holding prey; therefore implies
claws, a certain structure of the leg-bones, a certain form of shoulder-blade. Summing up he
says, that "the claw, the scapula, the condyle, the femur, and all the other bones, taken separately,
will give the tooth or one another; and by commencing with any one, he who had a rational conception
of the laws of the organic economy, could reconstruct the whole animal."

It will be seen that the method of restoration here contended for, is based on the alleged
physiological necessity of the connexion between these several peculiarities. The argument
used is, not that a scapula of a certain shape may be recognized as having belonged to a carnivorous
mammal because we always find that carnivorous mammals do possess such scapulas; but the argument
is that they must possess them, because carnivorous habits would be impossible without them.
And in the above quotation Cuvier asserts that the necessary correlation which he considers
so obvious in these cases, exists throughout the system: admitting, however, that in consequence
of our limited knowledge of physiology we are unable in many cases to trace this necessary
correlation, and are obliged to base our conclusions upon observed coexistences, of which we
do not understand the reason, but which we find invariable.

Now Professor Huxley has recently shown that, in the first place, this empirical method, which
Cuvier introduces as quite subordinate, and to be used only in aid of the rational method,
is really the method which Cuvier habitually employed--the so-called rational method remaining
practically a dead letter; and, in the second place, he has shown that Cuvier himself has in
several places so far admitted the inapplicability of the rational method, as virtually to
surrender it as a method. But more than this, Professor Huxley contends that the alleged necessary
correlation is not true. Quite admitting the physiological dependence of parts on each other,
he denies that it is a dependence of a kind which could not be otherwise. "Thus the teeth of
a lion and the stomach of the animal are in such relation that the one is fitted to digest
the food which the other can tear, they are physiologically correlated; but we have no reason
for affirming this to be a necessary physiological correlation, in the sense that no other
could equally fit its possessor for living on recent flesh. The number and form of the teeth
might have been quite different from that which we know them to be, and the construction of
the stomach might have been greatly altered; and yet the functions of these organs might have
been equally well performed."

Thus much is needful to give an idea of the controversy. It is not here our purpose to go more
at length into the evidence cited on either side. We simply wish to show that the question
may be settled deductively. Before going on to do this, however, let us briefly notice two
collateral points.

In his defence of the Cuvierian doctrine, Professor Owen avails himself of the odium theologicum.
He attributes to his opponents "the insinuation and masked advocacy of the doctrine subversive
of a recognition of the Higher Mind." Now, saying nothing about the questionable propriety
of thus prejudging an issue in science, we think this is an unfortunate accusation. What is
there in the hypothesis of necessary, as distinguished from actual, correlation of parts, which
is particularly in harmony with Theism? Maintenance of the necessity, whether of sequences
or of coexistences, is commonly thought rather a derogation from divine power than otherwise.
Cuvier says--"None of these parts can be changed without affecting the others; and consequently,
each taken separately, indicates and gives all the rest." That is to say, in the nature of
things the correlation could not have been otherwise. On the other hand, Professor Huxley says
we have no warrant for asserting that the correlation could not have been otherwise; but have
not a little reason for thinking that the same physiological ends might have been differently
achieved. The one doctrine limits the possibilities of creation; the other denies the implied
limit. Which, then, is most open to the charge of covert Atheism?

On the other point we lean to the opinion of Professor Owen. We agree with him in thinking
that where a rational correlation (in the highest sense of the term) can be made out, it affords
a better basis for deduction than an empirical correlation ascertained only by accumulated
observations. Premising that by rational correlation is not meant one in which we can trace,
or think we can trace, a design, but one of which the negation is inconceivable (and this is
the species of correlation which Cuvier's principle implies); then we hold that our knowledge
of the correlation is of a more certain kind than where it is simply inductive. We think that
Professor Huxley, in his anxiety to avoid the error of making Thought the measure of Things,
does not sufficiently bear in mind the fact, that as our notion of necessity is determined
by some absolute uniformity pervading all orders of our experiences, it follows that an organic
correlation which cannot be conceived otherwise, is guaranteed by a much wider induction than
one ascertained only by the observation of organisms. But the truth is, that there are relatively
few organic correlations of which the negation is inconceivable. If we find the skull, vertebræ,
ribs, and phalanges of some quadruped as large as an elephant; we may indeed be certain that
the legs of this quadruped were of considerable size--much larger than those of a rat; and
our reason for conceiving this correlation as necessary, is, that it is based, not only upon
our experiences of moving organisms, but upon all our mechanical experiences relative to masses
and their supports. But even were there many physiological correlations really of this order,
which there are not, there would be danger in pursuing this line of reasoning, in consequence
of the liability to include within the class of truly necessary correlations, those which are
not such. For instance, there would seem to be a necessary correlation between the eye and
the surface of the body: light being needful for vision, it might be supposed that every eye
must be external. Nevertheless it is a fact that there are creatures, as the Cirrhipedia, having
eyes (not very efficient ones, it may be) deeply imbedded within the body. Again, a necessary
correlation might be assumed between the dimensions of the mammalian uterus and those of the
pelvis. It would appear impossible that in any species there should exist a well-developed
uterus containing a full-sized foetus, and yet that the arch of the pelvis should be too small
to allow the foetus to pass. And were the only mammal having a very small pelvic arch, a fossil
one, it would have been inferred, on the Cuvierian method, that the foetus must have been born
in a rudimentary state; and that the uterus must have been proportionally small. But there
happens to be an extant mammal having an undeveloped pelvis--the mole--which presents us with
a fact that saves us from this erroneous inference. The young of the mole are not born through
the pelvic arch at all; but in front of it! Thus, granting that some quite direct physiological
correlations may be necessary, we see that there is great risk of including among them some
which are not.

With regard to the great mass of the correlations, however, including all the indirect ones,
Professor Huxley seems to us warranted in denying that they are necessary; and we now propose
to show deductively the truth of his thesis. Let us begin with an analogy.

Whoever has been through an extensive iron-works, has seen a gigantic pair of shears worked
by machinery, and used for cutting in two, bars of iron that are from time to time thrust between
its blades. Supposing these blades to be the only visible parts of the apparatus, anyone observing
their movements (or rather the movement of one, for the other is commonly fixed), will see
from the manner in which the angle increases and decreases, and from the curve described by
the moving extremity, that there must be some centre of motion--either a pivot or an external
box equivalent to it. This may be regarded as a necessary correlation. Moreover, he might infer
that beyond the centre of motion the moving blade was produced into a lever, to which the power
was applied; but as another arrangement is just possible, this could not be called anything
more than a highly probable correlation. If now he went a step further, and asked how the reciprocal
movement was given to the lever, he would perhaps conclude that it was given by a crank. But
if he knew anything of mechanics, he would know that it might possibly be given by an eccentric.
Or again, he would know that the effect could be achieved by a cam. That is to say, he would
see that there was no necessary correlation between the shears and the remoter parts of the
apparatus. Take another case. The plate of a printing-press is required to move up and down
to the extent of an inch or so; and it must exert its greatest pressure when it reaches the
extreme of its downward movement. If now anyone will look over the stock of a printing-press
maker, he will see half a dozen different mechanical arrangements by which these ends are achieved;
and a machinist would tell him that as many more might readily be invented. If, then, there
is no necessary correlation between the special parts of a machine, still less is there between
those of an organism.

From a converse point of view the same truth is manifest. Bearing in mind the above analogy,
it will be foreseen that an alteration in one part of an organism will not necessarily entail
some one specific set of alterations in the other parts. Cuvier says, "None of these parts
can be changed without affecting the others; and consequently, each taken separately, indicates
and gives all the rest." The first of these propositions may pass, but the second, which it
is alleged follows from it, is not true; for it implies that "all the rest" can be severally
affected in only one way and degree, whereas they can be affected in many ways and degrees.
To show this, we must again have recourse to a mechanical analogy.

If you set a brick on end and thrust it over, you can predict with certainty in what direction
it will fall, and what attitude it will assume. If, again setting it up, you put another on
the top of it, you can no longer foresee with accuracy the results of an overthrow; and on
repeating the experiment, no matter how much care is taken to place the bricks in the same
positions, and to apply the same degree of force in the same direction, the effects will on
no two occasions be exactly alike. And in proportion as the aggregation is complicated by the
addition of new and unlike parts, will the results of any disturbance become more varied and
incalculable. The like truth is curiously illustrated by locomotive engines. It is a fact familiar
to mechanical engineers and engine-drivers, that out of a number of engines built as accurately
as possible to the same pattern, no two will act in just the same manner. Each will have its
peculiarities. The play of actions and reactions will so far differ, that under like conditions
each will behave in a somewhat different way; and every driver has to learn the idiosyncrasies
of his own engine before he can work it to the greatest advantage. In organisms themselves
this indefiniteness of mechanical reaction is clearly traceable. Two boys throwing stones will
always differ more or less in their attitudes, as will two billiard-players. The familiar fact
that each individual has a characteristic gait, illustrates the point still better. The rhythmical
motion of the leg is simple, and on the Cuvierian hypothesis, should react on the body in some
uniform way. But in consequence of those slight differences of structure which consist with
identity of species, no two individuals make exactly similar movements either of the trunk
or the arms. There is always a peculiarity recognizable by their friends.

When we pass to disturbing forces of a non-mechanical kind, the same truth becomes still more
conspicuous. Expose several persons to a drenching storm; and while one will subsequently feel
no appreciable inconvenience, another will have a cough, another a catarrh, another an attack
of diarrhoea, another a fit of rheumatism. Vaccinate several children of the same age with
the same quantity of virus, applied to the same part, and the symptoms will not be quite alike
in any of them, either in kind or intensity; and in some cases the differences will be extreme.
The quantity of alcohol which will send one man to sleep, will render another unusually brilliant--will
make this maudlin, and that irritable. Opium will produce either drowsiness or wakefulness:
so will tobacco.

Now in all these cases--mechanical and other--some force is brought to bear primarily on one
part of an organism, and secondarily on the rest; and, according to the doctrine of Cuvier,
the rest ought to be affected in a specific way. We find this to be by no means the case. The
original change produced in one part does not stand in any necessary correlation with every
one of the changes produced in the other parts; nor do these stand in any necessary correlation
with one another. The functional alteration which the disturbing force causes in the organ
directly acted upon, does not involve some particular set of functional alterations in the
other organs; but will be followed by some one out of various sets. And it is a manifest corollary,
that any structural alteration which may eventually be produced in the one organ, will not
be accompanied by some particular set of structural alterations in the other organs. There
will be no necessary correlation of forms.

Thus Paleontology must depend upon the empirical method. A fossil species that was obliged
to change its food or habits of life, did not of necessity undergo the particular set of modifications
exhibited; but, under some slight change of predisposing causes--as of season or latitude--might
have undergone some other set of modifications: the determining circumstance being one which,
in the human sense, we call fortuitous.

May we not say then, that the deductive method elucidates this vexed question in physiology;
while at the same time our argument collaterally exhibits the limits within which the deductive
method is applicable. For while we see that this extremely general question may be satisfactorily
dealt with deductively; the conclusion arrived at itself implies that the more special phenomena
of organization cannot be so dealt with.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is yet another method of investigating the general truths of physiology--a method to
which physiology already owes one luminous idea, but which is not at present formally recognized
as a method. We refer to the comparison of physiological phenomena with social phenomena.

The analogy between individual organisms and the social organism, is one that has from early
days occasionally forced itself on the attention of the observant. And though modern science
does not countenance those crude ideas of this analogy which have been from time to time expressed
since the Greeks flourished; yet it tends to show that there is an analogy, and a remarkable
one. While it is becoming clear that there are not those special parallelisms between the constituent
parts of a man and those of a nation, which have been thought to exist; it is also becoming
clear that the general principles of development and structure displayed in organized bodies
are displayed in societies also. The fundamental characteristic both of societies and of living
creatures, is, that they consist of mutually-dependent parts; and it would seem that this involves
a community of various other characteristics. Those who are acquainted with the broad facts
of both physiology and sociology, are beginning to recognize this correspondence not as a plausible
fancy, but as a scientific truth. And we are strongly of opinion that it will by and by be
seen to hold to an extent which few at present suspect.

Meanwhile, if any such correspondence exists, it is clear that physiology and sociology will
more or less interpret each other. Each affords its special facilities for inquiry. Relations
of cause and effect clearly traceable in the social organism, may lead to the search for analogous
ones in the individual organism; and may so elucidate what might else be inexplicable. Laws
of growth and function disclosed by the pure physiologist, may occasionally give us the clue
to certain social modifications otherwise difficult to understand. If they can do no more,
the two sciences can at least exchange suggestions and confirmations; and this will be no small
aid. The conception of "the physiological division of labour," which political economy has
already supplied to physiology, is one of no small value. And probably it has others to give.

In support of this opinion, we will now cite cases in which such aid is furnished. And in the
first place, let us see whether the facts of social organization do not afford additional support
to some of the doctrines set forth in the foregoing parts of this article.

One of the propositions supported by evidence was that in animals the process of development
is carried on, not by differentiations only, but by subordinate integrations. Now in the social
organism we may see the same duality of process; and further, it is to be observed that the
integrations are of the same three kinds. Thus we have integrations which arise from the simple
growth of adjacent parts that perform like functions: as, for instance, the coalescence of
Manchester with its calico-weaving suburbs. We have other integrations which arise when, out
of several places producing a particular commodity, one monopolizes more and more of the business,
and leaves the rest to dwindle: witness the growth of the Yorkshire cloth-districts at the
expense of those in the west of England; or the absorption by Staffordshire of the pottery-manufacture,
and the consequent decay of the establishments that once flourished at Worcester, Derby, and
elsewhere. And we have those yet other integrations which result from the actual approximation
of the similarly-occupied parts: whence result such facts as the concentration of publishers
in Paternoster Row, of lawyers in the Temple and neighbourhood, of corn-merchants about Mark
Lane, of civil engineers in Great George Street, of bankers in the centre of the city. Finding
thus that in the evolution of the social organism, as in the evolution of individual organisms,
there are integrations as well as differentiations, and moreover that these integrations are
of the same three orders; we have additional reason for considering these integrations as essential
parts of the developmental process, needed to be included in its formula. And further, the
circumstance that in the social organism these integrations are determined by community of
function, confirms the hypothesis that they are thus determined in the individual organism.

Again, we endeavoured to show deductively, that the contrasts of parts first seen in all unfolding
embryos, are consequent upon the contrasted circumstances to which such parts are exposed;
that thus, adaptation of constitution to conditions is the principle which determines their
primary changes; and that, possibly, if we include under the formula hereditarily-transmitted
adaptations, all subsequent differentiations may be similarly determined. Well, we need not
long contemplate the facts to see that some of the predominant social differentiations are
brought about in an analogous way. As the members of an originally-homogeneous community multiply
and spread, the gradual separation into sections which simultaneously takes place, manifestly
depends on differences of local circumstances. Those who happen to live near some place chosen,
perhaps for its centrality, as one of periodical assemblage, become traders, and a town springs
up; those who live dispersed, continue to hunt or cultivate the earth; those who spread to
the sea-shore fall into maritime occupations. And each of these classes undergoes modifications
of character fitting to its function. Later in the process of social evolution these local
adaptations are greatly multiplied. In virtue of differences of soil and climate, the rural
inhabitants in different parts of the kingdom, have their occupations partially specialized;
and are respectively distinguished as chiefly producing cattle, or sheep, or wheat, or oats,
or hops, or cider. People living where coal-fields are discovered become colliers; Cornishmen
take to mining because Cornwall is metalliferous; and the iron-manufacture is the dominant
industry where ironstone is plentiful. Liverpool has assumed the office of importing cotton,
in consequence of its proximity to the district where cotton goods are made; and for analogous
reasons Hull has become the chief port at which foreign wools are brought in. Even in the establishment
of breweries, of dye-works, of slate-quarries, of brick-yards, we may see the same truth. So
that, both in general and in detail, these industrial specializations of the social organism
which characterize separate districts, primarily depend on local circumstances. Of the originally-similar
units making up the social mass, different groups assume the different functions which their
respective positions entail; and become adapted to their conditions. Thus, that which we concluded,
a priori, to be the leading cause of organic differentiations, we find, a posteriori, to be
the leading cause of social differentiations. Nay further, as we inferred that possibly the
embryonic changes which are not thus directly caused, are caused by hereditarily-transmitted
adaptations; so, we may actually see that in embryonic societies, such changes as are not due
to direct adaptations, are in the main traceable to adaptations originally undergone by the
parent society. The colonies founded by distinct nations, while they are alike in exhibiting
specializations caused in the way above described, grow unlike in so far as they take on, more
or less, the organizations of the nations they sprung from. A French settlement does not develop
exactly after the same manner as an English one; and both assume forms different from those
which Roman settlements assumed. Now the fact that the differentiation of societies is determined
partly by the direct adaptation of their units to local conditions, and partly by the transmitted
influence of like adaptations undergone by ancestral societies, tends strongly to enforce the
conclusion, otherwise reached, that the differentiation of individual organisms, similarly
results from immediate adaptations compounded with ancestral adaptations.

From confirmations thus furnished by sociology to physiology, let us now pass to a suggestion
similarly furnished. A factory, or other producing establishment, or a town made up of such
establishments, is an agency for elaborating some commodity consumed by society at large; and
may be regarded as analogous to a gland or viscus in an individual organism. If we inquire
what is the primitive mode in which one of these producing establishments grows up, we find
it to be this. A single worker, who himself sells the produce of his labour, is the germ. His
business increasing, he employs helpers--his sons or others; and having done this, he becomes
a vendor not only of his own handiwork, but of that of others. A further increase of his business
compels him to multiply his assistants, and his sale grows so rapid that he is obliged to confine
himself to the process of selling: he ceases to be a producer, and becomes simply a channel
through which the produce of others is conveyed to the public. Should his prosperity rise yet
higher, he finds that he is unable to manage even the sale of his commodities, and has to employ
others, probably of his own family, to aid him in selling; so that, to him as a main channel
are now added subordinate channels. Moreover, when there grow up in one place, as a Manchester
or a Birmingham, many establishments of like kind, this process is carried still further. There
arise factors and buyers, who are the channels through which is transmitted the produce of
many factories; and we believe that primarily these factors were manufacturers who undertook
to dispose of the produce of smaller houses as well as their own, and ultimately became salesmen
only. Under a converse aspect, all the stages of this development have been within these few
years exemplified in our railway contractors. There are sundry men now living who illustrate
the whole process in their own persons--men who were originally navvies, digging and wheeling;
who then undertook some small sub-contract, and worked along with those they paid; who presently
took larger contracts, and employed foremen; and who now contract for whole railways, and let
portions to sub-contractors. That is to say, we have men who were originally workers, but have
finally become the main channels out of which diverge secondary channels, which again bifurcate
into the subordinate channels, through which flows the money (representing the nutriment) supplied
by society to the actual makers of the railway. Now it seems worth inquiring whether this is
not the original course followed in the evolution of secreting and excreting organs in an animal.
We know that such is the process by which the liver is developed. Out of the group of bile-cells
forming the germ of it, some centrally-placed ones, lying next to the intestine, are transformed
into ducts through which the secretion of the peripheral bile-cells is poured into the intestine;
and as the peripheral bile-cells multiply, there similarly arise secondary ducts emptying themselves
into the main ones; tertiary ones into these; and so on. Recent inquiries show that the like
is the case with the lungs,--that the bronchial tubes are thus formed. But while analogy suggests
that this is the original mode in which such organs are developed, it at the same time suggests
that this does not necessarily continue to be the mode. For as we find that in the social organism,
manufacturing establishments are no longer commonly developed through the series of modifications
above described, but now mostly arise by the direct transformation of a number of persons into
master, clerks, foremen, workers, &c.; so the approximate method of forming organs, may in
some cases be replaced by a direct metamorphosis of the organic units into the destined structure,
without any transitional structures being passed through. That there are organs thus formed
is an ascertained fact; and the additional question which analogy suggests is, whether the
direct method is substituted for the indirect method.

Such parallelisms might be multiplied. And were it possible here to show in detail the close
correspondence between the two kinds of organization, our case would be seen to have abundant
support. But, as it is, these few illustrations will sufficiently justify the opinion that
study of organized bodies may be indirectly furthered by study of the body politic. Hints may
be expected, if nothing more. And thus we venture to think that the Inductive Method, usually
alone employed by most physiologists, may not only derive important assistance from the Deductive
Method, but may further be supplemented by the Sociological Method.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 6: Carpenter's Principles of Comparative Physiology, pp. 616-17.]

[Footnote 7: With the exception, perhaps, of the Myxinoid fishes, in which what is considered
as the nasal orifice is single, and on the median line. But seeing how unusual is the position
of this orifice, it seems questionable whether it is the true homologue of the nostrils.]

[Footnote 8: In the Westminster Review for April, 1857; and now reprinted in this volume.]

[Footnote 9: See Essay on "Progress: its Law and Cause."]

[Footnote 10: This was written before the publication of the Origin of Species. I leave it
standing because it shows the stage of thought then arrived at.]

THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS.

    [First published in The Westminster Review for July, 1858. In
    explanation of sundry passages, it seems needful to state that this
    essay was written in defence of the Nebular Hypothesis at a time
    when it had fallen into disrepute. Hence there are some opinions
    spoken of as current which are no longer current.]

Inquiring into the pedigree of an idea is not a bad means of roughly estimating its value.
To have come of respectable ancestry, is prima facie evidence of worth in a belief as in a
person; while to be descended from a discreditable stock is, in the one case as in the other,
an unfavourable index. The analogy is not a mere fancy. Beliefs, together with those who hold
them, are modified little by little in successive generations; and as the modifications which
successive generations of the holders undergo do not destroy the original type, but only disguise
and refine it, so the accompanying alterations of belief, however much they purify, leave behind
the essence of the original belief.

Considered genealogically, the received theory respecting the creation of the Solar System
is unmistakably of low origin. You may clearly trace it back to primitive mythologies. Its
remotest ancestor is the doctrine that the celestial bodies are personages who originally lived
on the Earth--a doctrine still held by some of the negroes Livingstone visited. Science having
divested the sun and planets of their divine personalities, this old idea was succeeded by
the idea which even Kepler entertained, that the planets are guided in their courses by presiding
spirits: no longer themselves gods, they are still severally kept in their orbits by gods.
And when gravitation came to dispense with these celestial steersmen, there was begotten a
belief, less gross than its parent, but partaking of the same essential nature, that the planets
were originally launched into their orbits by the Creator's hand. Evidently, though much refined,
the anthropomorphism of the current hypothesis is inherited from the aboriginal anthropomorphism,
which described gods as a stronger order of men.

There is an antagonist hypothesis which does not propose to honour the Unknown Power manifested
in the Universe, by such titles as "The Master-Builder," or "The Great Artificer;" but which
regards this Unknown Power as probably working after a method quite different from that of
human mechanics. And the genealogy of this hypothesis is as high as that of the other is low.
It is begotten by that ever-enlarging and ever-strengthening belief in the presence of Law,
which accumulated experiences have gradually produced in the human mind. From generation to
generation Science has been proving uniformities of relation among phenomena which were before
thought either fortuitous or supernatural in their origin--has been showing an established
order and a constant causation where ignorance had assumed irregularity and arbitrariness.
Each further discovery of Law has increased the presumption that Law is everywhere conformed
to. And hence, among other beliefs, has arisen the belief that the Solar System originated,
not by manufacture but by evolution. Besides its abstract parentage in those grand general
conceptions which Science has generated, this hypothesis has a concrete parentage of the highest
character. Based as it is on the law of universal gravitation, it may claim for its remote
progenitor the great thinker who established that law. It was first suggested by one who ranks
high among philosophers. The man who collected evidence indicating that stars result from the
aggregation of diffused matter, was the most diligent, careful, and original astronomical observer
of modern times. And the world has not seen a more learned mathematician than the man who,
setting out with this conception of diffused matter concentrating towards its centre of gravity,
pointed out the way in which there would arise, in the course of its concentration, a balanced
group of sun, planets, and satellites, like that of which the Earth is a member.

Thus, even were there but little direct evidence assignable for the Nebular Hypothesis, the
probability of its truth would be strong. Its own high derivation and the low derivation of
the antagonist hypothesis, would together form a weighty reason for accepting it--at any rate,
provisionally. But the direct evidence assignable for the Nebular Hypothesis is by no means
little. It is far greater in quantity, and more varied in kind, than is commonly supposed.
Much has been said here and there on this or that class of evidences; but nowhere, so far as
we know, have all the evidences been fully stated. We propose here to do something towards
supplying the deficiency: believing that, joined with the a priori reasons given above, the
array of a posteriori reasons will leave little doubt in the mind of any candid inquirer.

And first, let us address ourselves to those recent discoveries in stellar astronomy which
have been supposed to conflict with this celebrated speculation.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Sir William Herschel, directing his great reflector to various nebulous spots, found them
resolvable into clusters of stars, he inferred, and for a time maintained, that all nebulous
spots are clusters of stars exceedingly remote from us. But after years of conscientious investigation,
he concluded that "there were nebulosities which are not of a starry nature;" and on this conclusion
was based his hypothesis of a diffused luminous fluid which, by its eventual aggregation, produced
stars. A telescopic power much exceeding that used by Herschel, has enabled Lord Rosse to resolve
some of the nebulæ previously unresolved; and, returning to the conclusion which Herschel first
formed on similar grounds but afterwards rejected, many astronomers have assumed that, under
sufficiently high powers, every nebula would be decomposed into stars--that the irresolvability
is due solely to distance. The hypothesis now commonly entertained is, that all nebulæ are
galaxies more or less like in nature to that immediately surrounding us; but that they are
so inconceivably remote as to look, through ordinary telescopes, like small faint spots. And
not a few have drawn the corollary, that by the discoveries of Lord Rosse the Nebular Hypothesis
has been disproved.

Now, even supposing that these inferences respecting the distances and natures of the nebulæ
are valid, they leave the Nebular Hypothesis substantially as it was. Admitting that each of
these faint spots is a sidereal system, so far removed that its countless stars give less light
than one small star of our own sidereal system; the admission is in no way inconsistent with
the belief that stars, and their attendant planets, have been formed by the aggregation of
nebulous matter. Though, doubtless, if the existence of nebulous matter now in course of concentration
be disproved, one of the evidences of the Nebular Hypothesis is destroyed, yet the remaining
evidences remain. It is a tenable position that though nebular condensation is now nowhere
to be seen in progress, yet it was once going on universally. And, indeed, it might be argued
that the still-continued existence of diffused nebulous matter is scarcely to be expected;
seeing that the causes which have resulted in the aggregation of one mass, must have been acting
on all masses, and that hence the existence of masses not aggregated would be a fact calling
for explanation. Thus, granting the immediate conclusions suggested by these recent disclosures
of the six-feet reflector, the corollary which many have drawn is inadmissible.

But these conclusions may be successfully contested. Receiving them though we have been, for
years past, as established truths, a critical examination of the facts has convinced us that
they are quite unwarrantable. They involve so many manifest incongruities, that we have been
astonished to find men of science entertaining them, even as probable. Let us consider these
incongruities.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the first place, mark what is inferable from the distribution of nebulæ.

     "The spaces which precede or which follow simple nebulæ," says
     Arago, "and a fortiori, groups of nebulæ, contain generally few
     stars. Herschel found this rule to be invariable. Thus every time
     that during a short interval no star approached in virtue of the
     diurnal motion, to place itself in the field of his motionless
     telescope, he was accustomed to say to the secretary who assisted
     him,--'Prepare to write; nebulæ are about to arrive.'"

How does this fact consist with the hypothesis that nebulæ are remote galaxies? If there were
but one nebula, it would be a curious coincidence were this one nebula so placed in the distant
regions of space, as to agree in direction with a starless spot in our own sidereal system.
If there were but two nebulæ, and both were so placed, the coincidence would be excessively
strange. What, then, shall we say on finding that there are thousands of nebulæ so placed?
Shall we believe that in thousands of cases these far-removed galaxies happen to agree in their
visible positions with the thin places in our own galaxy? Such a belief is impossible.

Still more manifest does the impossibility of it become when we consider the general distribution
of nebulæ. Besides again showing itself in the fact that "the poorest regions in stars are
near the richest in nebulæ," the law above specified applies to the heavens as a whole. In
that zone of celestial space where stars are excessively abundant, nebulæ are rare; while in
the two opposite celestial spaces that are furthest removed from this zone, nebulæ are abundant.
Scarcely any nebulæ lie near the galactic circle (or plane of the Milky Way); and the great
mass of them lie round the galactic poles. Can this also be mere coincidence? When to the fact
that the general mass of nebulæ are antithetical in position to the general mass of stars,
we add the fact that local regions of nebulæ are regions where stars are scarce, and the further
fact that single nebulæ are habitually found in comparatively starless spots; does not the
proof of a physical connexion become overwhelming? Should it not require an infinity of evidence
to show that nebulæ are not parts of our sidereal system? Let us see whether any such infinity
of evidence is assignable. Let us see whether there is even a single alleged proof which will
bear examination.

     "As seen through colossal telescopes," says Humboldt, "the
     contemplation of these nebulous masses leads us into regions from
     whence a ray of light, according to an assumption not wholly
     improbable, requires millions of years to reach our earth--to
     distances for whose measurement the dimensions (the distance of
     Sirius, or the calculated distances of the binary stars in Cygnus
     and the Centaur) of our nearest stratum of fixed stars scarcely
     suffice."

In this confused sentence there is implied a belief, that the distances of the nebulæ from
our galaxy of stars as much transcend the distances of our stars from one another, as these
interstellar distances transcend the dimensions of our planetary system. Just as the diameter
of the Earth's orbit, is a mere point when compared with the distance of our Sun from Sirius;
so is the distance of our Sun from Sirius, a mere point when compared with the distance of
our galaxy from those far-removed galaxies constituting nebulæ. Observe the consequences of
this assumption.

If one of these supposed galaxies is so remote that its distance dwarfs our interstellar spaces
into points, and therefore makes the dimensions of our whole sidereal system relatively insignificant;
does it not inevitably follow that the telescopic power required to resolve this remote galaxy
into stars, must be incomparably greater than the telescopic power required to resolve the
whole of our own galaxy into stars? Is it not certain that an instrument which can just exhibit
with clearness the most distant stars of our own cluster, must be utterly unable to separate
one of these remote clusters into stars? What, then, are we to think when we find that the
same instrument which decomposes hosts of nebulæ into stars, fails to resolve completely our
own Milky Way? Take a homely comparison. Suppose a man who was surrounded by a swarm of bees,
extending, as they sometimes do, so high in the air as to render some of the individual bees
almost invisible, were to declare that a certain spot on the horizon was a swarm of bees; and
that he knew it because he could see the bees as separate specks. Incredible as the assertion
would be, it would not exceed in incredibility this which we are criticising. Reduce the dimensions
to figures, and the absurdity becomes still more palpable. In round numbers, the distance of
Sirius from the Earth is half a million times the distance of the Earth from the Sun; and,
according to the hypothesis, the distance of a nebula is something like half a million times
the distance of Sirius. Now, our own "starry island, or nebula," as Humboldt calls it, "forms
a lens-shaped, flattened, and everywhere detached stratum, whose major axis is estimated at
seven or eight hundred, and its minor axis at a hundred and fifty times the distance of Sirius
from the Earth."[11] And since it is concluded that the Solar System is near the centre of
this aggregation, it follows that our distance from the remotest parts of it is some four hundred
distances of Sirius. But the stars forming these remotest parts are not individually visible,
even through telescopes of the highest power. How, then, can such telescopes make individually
visible the stars of a nebula which is half a million times the distance of Sirius? The implication
is, that a star rendered invisible by distance becomes visible if taken twelve hundred times
further off! Shall we accept this implication? or shall we not rather conclude that the nebulæ
are not remote galaxies? Shall we not infer that, be their nature what it may, they must be
at least as near to us as the extremities of our own sidereal system?

Throughout the above argument, it is tacitly assumed that differences of apparent magnitude
among the stars, result mainly from differences of distance. On this assumption the current
doctrines respecting the nebulæ are founded; and this assumption is, for the nonce, admitted
in each of the foregoing criticisms. From the time, however, when it was first made by Sir
W. Herschel, this assumption has been purely gratuitous; and it now proves to be inadmissible.
But, awkwardly enough, its truth and its untruth are alike fatal to the conclusions of those
who argue after the manner of Humboldt. Note the alternatives.

On the one hand, what follows from the untruth of the assumption? If apparent largeness of
stars is not due to comparative nearness, and their successively smaller sizes to their greater
and greater degrees of remoteness, what becomes of the inferences respecting the dimensions
of our sidereal system and the distances of nebulæ? If, as has lately been shown, the almost
invisible star 61 Cygni has a greater parallax than [Greek: a] Cygni, though, according to
an estimate based on Sir W. Herschel's assumption, it should be about twelve times more distant--if,
as it turns out, there exist telescopic stars which are nearer to us than Sirius; of what worth
is the conclusion that the nebulæ are very remote, because their component luminous masses
are made visible only by high telescopic powers? Clearly, if the most brilliant star in the
heavens and a star that cannot be seen by the naked eye, prove to be equidistant, relative
distances cannot be in the least inferred from relative visibilities. And if so, nebulæ may
be comparatively near, though the starlets of which they are made up appear extremely minute.

On the other hand, what follows if the truth of the assumption be granted? The arguments used
to justify this assumption in the case of the stars, equally justify it in the case of the
nebulæ. It cannot be contended that, on the average, the apparent sizes of the stars indicate
their distances, without its being admitted that, on the average, the apparent sizes of the
nebulæ indicate their distances--that, generally speaking, the larger are the nearer and the
smaller are the more distant. Mark, now, the necessary inference respecting their resolvability.
The largest or nearest nebulæ will be most easily resolved into stars; the successively smaller
will be successively more difficult of resolution; and the irresolvable ones will be the smallest
ones. This, however, is exactly the reverse of the fact. The largest nebulæ are either wholly
irresolvable, or but partially resolvable under the highest telescopic powers; while large
numbers of quite small nebulæ are easily resolved by far less powerful telescopes. An instrument
through which the great nebula in Andromeda, two and a half degrees long and one degree broad,
appears merely as a diffused light, decomposes a nebula of fifteen minutes diameter into twenty
thousand starry points. At the same time that the individual stars of a nebula eight minutes
in diameter are so clearly seen as to allow of their number being estimated, a nebula covering
an area five hundred times as great shows no stars at all! What possible explanation of this
can be given on the current hypothesis?

Yet a further difficulty remains--one which is, perhaps, still more obviously fatal than the
foregoing. This difficulty is presented by the phenomena of the Magellanic clouds. Describing
the larger of these, Sir John Herschel says:--

     "The Nubecula Major, like the Minor, consists partly of large
     tracts and ill-defined patches of irresolvable nebula, and of
     nebulosity in every stage of resolution, up to perfectly resolved
     stars like the Milky Way, as also of regular and irregular nebulæ
     properly so called, of globular clusters in every stage of
     resolvability, and of clustering groups sufficiently insulated and
     condensed to come under the designation of 'clusters of
     stars.'"--Cape Observations, p. 146.

In his Outlines of Astronomy, Sir John Herschel, after repeating this description in other
words, goes on to remark that--

     "This combination of characters, rightly considered, is in a high
     degree instructive, affording an insight into the probable
     comparative distance of stars and nebulæ, and the real
     brightness of individual stars as compared with one another. Taking
     the apparent semidiameter of the nubecula major at three degrees,
     and regarding its solid form as, roughly speaking, spherical, its
     nearest and most remote parts differ in their distance from us by a
     little more than a tenth part of our distance from its center. The
     brightness of objects situated in its nearer portions, therefore,
     cannot be much exaggerated, nor that of its remoter much
     enfeebled, by their difference of distance; yet within this
     globular space, we have collected upwards of six hundred stars of
     the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth magnitudes, nearly three
     hundred nebulæ, and globular and other clusters, of all degrees of
     resolvability, and smaller scattered stars innumerable of every
     inferior magnitude, from the tenth to such as by their multitude
     and minuteness constitute irresolvable nebulosity, extending over
     tracts of many square degrees. Were there but one such object, it
     might be maintained without utter improbability that its apparent
     sphericity is only an effect of foreshortening, and that in reality
     a much greater proportional difference of distance between its
     nearer and more remote parts exists. But such an adjustment,
     improbable enough in one case, must be rejected as too much so for
     fair argument in two. It must, therefore, be taken as a
     demonstrated fact, that stars of the seventh or eighth magnitude
     and irresolvable nebula may co-exist within limits of distance not
     differing in proportion more than as nine to ten."--Outlines of
     Astronomy (10th Ed.), pp. 656-57.

This supplies yet another reductio ad absurdum of the doctrine we are combating. It gives us
the choice of two incredibilities. If we are to believe that one of these included nebulæ is
so remote that its hundred thousand stars look like a milky spot, invisible to the naked eye;
we must also believe that there are single stars so enormous that though removed to this same
distance they remain visible. If we accept the other alternative, and say that many nebulæ
are no further off than our own stars of the eighth magnitude; then it is requisite to say
that at a distance not greater than that at which a single star is still faintly visible to
the naked eye, there may exist a group of a hundred thousand stars which is invisible to the
naked eye. Neither of these suppositions can be entertained. What, then, is the conclusion
that remains? This only:--that the nebulæ are not further from us than parts of our own sidereal
system, of which they must be considered members; and that when they are resolvable into discrete
masses, these masses cannot be considered as stars in anything like the ordinary sense of that
word.[12]

And now, having seen the untenability of this idea, rashly espoused by sundry astronomers,
that the nebulæ are extremely remote galaxies; let us consider whether the various appearances
they present are not reconcilable with the Nebular Hypothesis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Given a rare and widely-diffused mass of nebulous matter, having a diameter, say, of one hundred
times that of the Solar System,[13] what are the successive changes that may be expected to
take place in it? Mutual gravitation will approximate its atoms or its molecules; but their
approximation will be opposed by that atomic motion the resultant of which we recognize as
repulsion, and the overcoming of which implies the evolution of heat. As fast as this heat
partially escapes by radiation, further approximation will take place, attended by further
evolution of heat, and so on continuously: the processes not occurring separately as here described,
but simultaneously, uninterruptedly, and with increasing activity. When the nebulous mass has
reached a particular stage of condensation--when its internally-situated atoms have approached
to within certain distances, have generated a certain amount of heat, and are subject to a
certain mutual pressure, combinations may be anticipated. Whether the molecules produced be
of kinds such as we know, which is possible, or whether they be of kinds simpler than any we
know, which is more probable, matters not to the argument. It suffices that molecular unions,
either between atoms of the same kind or between atoms of different kinds, will finally take
place. When they do take place, they will be accompanied by a sudden and great disengagement
of heat; and until this excess of heat has escaped, the newly-formed molecules will remain
uniformly diffused, or, as it were, dissolved in the pre-existing nebulous medium.

But now what may be expected by and by to happen? When radiation has adequately lowered the
temperature, these molecules will precipitate; and, having precipitated, they will not remain
uniformly diffused, but will aggregate into flocculi; just as water, precipitated from air,
collects into clouds. Concluding, thus, that a nebulous mass will, in course of time, resolve
itself into flocculi of precipitated denser matter, floating in the rarer medium from which
they were precipitated, let us inquire what are the mechanical results to be inferred. Of clustered
bodies in empty space, each will move along a line which is the resultant of the tractive forces
exercised by all the rest, modified from moment to moment by the acquired motion; and the aggregation
of such clustered bodies, if it eventually results at all, can result only from collision,
dissipation, and the formation of a resisting medium. But with clustered bodies already immersed
in a resisting medium, and especially if such bodies are of small densities, such as those
we are considering, the process of concentration will begin forthwith: two factors conspiring
to produce it. The flocculi described, irregular in their shapes and presenting, as they must
in nearly all cases, unsymmetrical faces to their lines of motion, will be deflected from those
courses which mutual gravitation, if uninterfered with, would produce among them; and this
will militate against that balancing of movements which permanence of the cluster pre-supposes.
If it be said, as it may truly be said, that this is too trifling a cause of derangement to
produce much effect, then there comes the more important cause with which it co-operates. The
medium from which the flocculi have been precipitated, and through which they are moving, must,
by gravitation, be rendered denser in its central parts than in its peripheral parts. Hence
the flocculi, none of them moving in straight lines to the common centre of gravity, but having
courses made to diverge to one or other side of it (in small degrees by the cause just assigned,
and in much greater degrees by the tractive forces of other flocculi) will, in moving towards
the central region, meet with greater resistances on their inner sides than on their outer
sides; and will be thus made to diverge outwardly from their courses more than they would otherwise
do. Hence a tendency which, apart from other tendencies, will cause them severally to go on
one or other side of the centre of gravity, and, approaching it, to get motions more and more
tangential. Observe, however, that their respective motions will be deflected, not towards
one side of the common centre of gravity, but towards various sides. How then can there result
a movement common to them all? Very simply. Each flocculus, in describing its course, must
give motion to the medium through which it is moving. But the probabilities are infinity to
one against all the respective motions thus impressed on this medium, exactly balancing one
another. And if they do not balance one another the result must be rotation of the whole mass
of the medium in one direction. But preponderating momentum in one direction, having caused
rotation of the medium in that direction, the rotating medium must in its turn gradually arrest
such flocculi as are moving in opposition, and impress its own motion upon them; and thus there
will ultimately be formed a rotating medium with suspended flocculi partaking of its motion,
while they move in converging spirals towards the common centre of gravity.[14]

Before comparing these conclusions with facts, let us pursue the reasoning a little further,
and observe certain subordinate actions. The respective flocculi must be drawn not towards
their common centre of gravity only, but also towards neighbouring flocculi. Hence the whole
assemblage of flocculi will break up into groups: each group concentrating towards its local
centre of gravity, and in so doing acquiring a vortical movement like that subsequently acquired
by the whole nebula. According to circumstances, and chiefly according to the size of the original
nebulous mass, this process of local aggregation will produce various results. If the whole
nebula is but small, the local groups of flocculi may be drawn into the common centre of gravity
before their constituent masses have coalesced with one another. In a larger nebula, these
local aggregations may have concentrated into rotating spheroids of vapour, while yet they
have made but little approach towards the general focus of the system. In a still larger nebula,
where the local aggregations are both greater and more remote from the common centre of gravity,
they may have condensed into masses of molten matter before the general distribution of them
has greatly altered. In short, as the conditions in each case determine, the discrete masses
produced may vary indefinitely in number, in size, in density, in motion, in distribution.

And now let us return to the visible characters of nebulæ, as observed through modern telescopes.
Take first the description of those nebulæ which, by the hypothesis, must be in an early stage
of evolution.

     Among the "irregular nebulæ," says Sir John Herschel, "may be
     comprehended all which, to a want of complete and in most
     instances even of partial resolvability by the power of the
     20-feet reflector, unite such a deviation from the circular or
     elliptic form, or such a want of symmetry (with that form) as
     preclude their being placed in class 1, or that of Regular Nebulæ.
     This second class comprises many of the most remarkable and
     interesting objects in the heavens, as well as the most extensive
     in respect of the area they occupy."

And, referring to this same order of objects, M. Arago says:--"The forms of very large diffuse
nebulæ do not appear to admit of definition; they have no regular outline."

This coexistence of largeness, irregularity, and indefiniteness of outline, with irresolvability,
is extremely significant. The fact that the largest nebulæ are either irresolvable or very
difficult to resolve, might have been inferred a priori; seeing that irresolvability, implying
that the aggregation of precipitated matter has gone on to but a small extent, will be found
in nebulæ of wide diffusion. Again, the irregularity of these large, irresolvable nebulæ, might
also have been expected; seeing that their outlines, compared by Arago with "the fantastic
figures which characterize clouds carried away and tossed about by violent and often contrary
winds," are similarly characteristic of a mass not yet gathered together by the mutual attraction
of its parts. And once more, the fact that these large, irregular, irresolvable nebulæ have
indefinite outlines--outlines that fade off insensibly into surrounding darkness--is one of
like meaning.

Speaking generally (and of course differences of distance negative anything beyond average
statements), the spiral nebulæ are smaller than the irregular nebulæ, and more resolvable;
at the same time that they are not so small as the regular nebulæ, and not so resolvable. This
is as, according to the hypothesis, it should be. The degree of condensation causing spiral
movement, is a degree of condensation also implying masses of flocculi that are larger, and
therefore more visible, than those existing in an earlier stage. Moreover, the forms of these
spiral nebulæ are quite in harmony with the explanation given. The curves of luminous matter
which they exhibit, are not such as would be described by discrete masses starting from a state
of rest, and moving through a resisting medium to a common centre of gravity; but they are
such as would be described by masses having their movements modified by the rotation of the medium.

In the centre of a spiral nebula is seen a mass both more luminous and more resolvable than
the rest. Assume that, in process of time, all the spiral streaks of luminous matter which
converge to this centre are drawn into it, as they must be; assume further, that the flocculi,
or other discrete portions constituting these luminous streaks, aggregate into larger masses
at the same time that they approach the central group, and that the masses forming this central
group also aggregate into larger masses; and there will finally result a cluster of such larger
masses, which will be resolvable with comparative ease. And, as the coalescence and concentration
go on, the constituent masses will gradually become fewer, larger, brighter, and more densely
collected around the common centre of gravity. See now how completely this inference agrees
with observation. "The circular form is that which most commonly characterises resolvable nebulæ,"
writes Arago. Resolvable nebulæ, says Sir John Herschel, "are almost universally round or oval."
Moreover, the centre of each group habitually displays a closer clustering of the constituent
masses than the outer parts; and it is shown that, under the law of gravitation, which we now
know extends to the stars, this distribution is not one of equilibrium, but implies progressing
concentration. While, just as we inferred that, according to circumstances, the extent to which
aggregation has been carried must vary; so we find that, in fact, there are regular nebulæ
of all degrees of resolvability, from those consisting of innumerable minute masses, to those
in which their numbers are smaller and the sizes greater, and to those in which there are a
few large bodies worthy to be called stars.

On the one hand, then, we see that the notion, of late years uncritically received, that the
nebulæ are extremely remote galaxies of stars like those which make up our own Milky Way, is
totally irreconcilable with the facts--involves us in sundry absurdities. On the other hand,
we see that the hypothesis of nebular condensation harmonizes with the most recent results
of stellar astronomy: nay more--that it supplies us with an explanation of various appearances
which in its absence would be incomprehensible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Descending now to the Solar System, let us consider first a class of phenomena in some sort
transitional--those offered by comets. In them, or at least in those most numerous of them
which lie far out of the plane of the Solar System, and are not to be counted among its members,
we have, still existing, a kind of matter like that out of which, according to the Nebular
Hypothesis, the Solar System was evolved. Hence, for the explanation of them, we must go back
to the time when the substances forming the sun and planets were yet unconcentrated.

When diffused matter, precipitated from a rarer medium, is aggregating, there are certain to
be here and there produced small flocculi, which long remain detached; as do, for instance,
minute shreds of cloud in a summer sky. In a concentrating nebula these will, in the majority
of cases, eventually coalesce with the larger flocculi near to them. But it is tolerably evident
that some of those formed at the outermost parts of the nebula, will not coalesce with the
larger internal masses, but will slowly follow without overtaking them. The relatively greater
resistance of the medium necessitates this. As a single feather falling to the ground will
be rapidly left behind by a pillow-full of feathers; so, in their progress to the common centre
of gravity, will the outermost shreds of vapour be left behind by the great masses of vapour
internally situated. But we are not dependent merely on reasoning for this belief. Observation
shows us that the less concentrated external parts of nebulæ, are left behind by the more concentrated
internal parts. Examined through high powers, all nebulæ, even when they have assumed regular
forms, are seen to be surrounded by luminous streaks, of which the directions show that they
are being drawn into the general mass. Still higher powers bring into view still smaller, fainter,
and more widely-dispersed streaks. And it cannot be doubted that the minute fragments which
no telescopic aid makes visible, are yet more numerous and widely dispersed. Thus far, then,
inference and observation are at one.

Granting that the great majority of these outlying portions of nebulous matter will be drawn
into the central mass long before it reaches a definite form, the presumption is that some
of the very small, far-removed portions will not be so; but that before they arrive near it,
the central mass will have contracted into a comparatively moderate bulk. What now will be
the characters of these late-arriving portions?

In the first place, they will have either extremely eccentric orbits or non-elliptic paths.
Left behind at a time when they were moving towards the centre of gravity in slightly-deflected
lines, and therefore having but very small angular velocities, they will approach the central
mass in greatly elongated curves; and rushing round it, will go off again into space. That
is, they will behave just as we see the majority of comets do; the orbits of which are either
so eccentric as to be indistinguishable from parabolas, or else are not orbits at all, but
are paths which are distinctly either parabolic or hyperbolic.

In the second place, they will come from all parts of the heavens. Our supposition implies
that they were left behind at a time when the nebulous mass was of irregular shape, and had
not acquired a definite rotation; and as the separation of them would not be from any one surface
of the nebulous mass more than another, the conclusion must be that they will come to the central
body from various directions in space. This, too, is exactly what happens. Unlike planets,
whose orbits approximate to one plane, comets have orbits that show no relation to one another;
but cut the plane of the ecliptic at all angles, and have axes inclined to it at all angles.

In the third place, these remotest flocculi of nebulous matter will, at the outset, be deflected
from their direct courses to the common centre of gravity, not all on one side, but each on
such side as its form, or its original proper motion, determines. And being left behind before
the rotation of the nebula is set up, they will severally retain their different individual
motions. Hence, following the concentrated mass, they will eventually go round it on all sides;
and as often from right to left as from left to right. Here again the inference perfectly corresponds
with the facts. While all the planets go round the sun from west to east, comets as often go
round the sun from east to west as from west to east. Of 262 comets recorded since 1680, 130
are direct, and 132 are retrograde. This equality is what the law of probabilities would indicate.

Then, in the fourth place, the physical constitution of comets accords with the hypothesis.[15]
The ability of nebulous matter to concentrate into a concrete form, depends on its mass. To
bring its ultimate atoms into that proximity requisite for chemical union--requisite, that
is, for the production of denser matter--their repulsion must be overcome. The only force antagonistic
to their repulsion, is their mutual gravitation. That their mutual gravitation may generate
a pressure and temperature of sufficient intensity, there must be an enormous accumulation
of them; and even then the approximation can slowly go on only as fast as the evolved heat
escapes. But where the quantity of atoms is small, and therefore the force of mutual gravitation
small, there will be nothing to coerce the atoms into union. Whence we infer that these detached
fragments of nebulous matter will continue in their original state. Non-periodic comets seem
to do so.

We have already seen that this view of the origin of comets harmonizes with the characters
of their orbits; but the evidence hence derived is much stronger than was indicated. The great
majority of cometary orbits are classed as parabolic; and it is ordinarily inferred that they
are visitors from remote space, and will never return. But are they rightly classed as parabolic?
Observations on a comet moving in an extremely eccentric ellipse, which are possible only when
it is comparatively near perihelion, must fail to distinguish its orbit from a parabola. Evidently,
then, it is not safe to class it as a parabola because of inability to detect the elements
of an ellipse. But if extreme eccentricity of an orbit necessitates such inability, it seems
quite possible that comets have no other orbits than elliptic ones. Though five or six are
said to be hyperbolic, yet, as I learn from one who has paid special attention to comets, "no
such orbit has, I believe, been computed for a well-observed comet." Hence the probability
that all the orbits are ellipses is overwhelming. Ellipses and hyperbolas have countless varieties
of forms, but there is only one form of parabola; or, to speak literally, all parabolas are
similar, while there are infinitely numerous dissimilar ellipses and dissimilar hyperbolas.
Consequently, anything coming to the Sun from a great distance must have one exact amount of
proper motion to produce a parabola: all other amounts would give hyperbolas or ellipses. And
if there are no hyperbolic orbits, then it is infinity to one that all the orbits are elliptical.
This is just what they would be if comets had the genesis above supposed.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, leaving these erratic bodies, let us turn to the more familiar and important members
of the Solar System. It was the remarkable harmony among their movements which first made Laplace
conceive that the Sun, planets, and satellites had resulted from a common genetic process.
As Sir William Herschel, by his observations on the nebulæ, was led to the conclusion that
stars resulted from the aggregation of diffused matter; so Laplace, by his observations on
the structure of the Solar System, was led to the conclusion that only by the rotation of aggregating
matter were its peculiarities to be explained. In his Exposition du Système du Monde, he enumerates
as the leading evidences:--1. The movements of the planets in the same direction and in orbits
approaching to the same plane; 2. The movements of the satellites in the same direction as
those of the planets; 3. The movements of rotation of these various bodies and of the sun in
the same direction as the orbital motions, and mostly in planes little different; 4. The small
eccentricities of the orbits of the planets and satellites, as contrasted with the great eccentricities
of the cometary orbits. And the probability that these harmonious movements had a common cause,
he calculates as two hundred thousand billions to one.

This immense preponderance of probability does not point to a common cause under the form ordinarily
conceived--an Invisible Power working after the method of "a Great Artificer;" but to an Invisible
Power working after the method of evolution. For though the supporters of the common hypothesis
may argue that it was necessary for the sake of stability that the planets should go round
the Sun in the same direction and nearly in one plane, they cannot thus account for the direction
of the axial motions.[16] The mechanical equilibrium would not have been interfered with, had
the Sun been without any rotatory movement; or had he revolved on his axis in a direction opposite
to that in which the planets go round him; or in a direction at right angles to the average
plane of their orbits. With equal safety the motion of the Moon round the Earth might have
been the reverse of the Earth's motion round its axis; or the motions of Jupiter's satellites
might similarly have been at variance with his axial motion; or those of Saturn's satellites
with his. As, however, none of these alternatives have been followed, the uniformity must be
considered, in this case as in all others, evidence of subordination to some general law--implies
what we call natural causation, as distinguished from arbitrary arrangement.

Hence the hypothesis of evolution would be the only probable one, even in the absence of any
clue to the particular mode of evolution. But when we have, propounded by a mathematician of
the highest authority, a theory of this evolution based on established mechanical principles,
which accounts for these various peculiarities, as well as for many minor ones, the conclusion
that the Solar System was evolved becomes almost irresistible.

The general nature of Laplace's theory scarcely needs stating. Books of popular astronomy have
familiarized most readers with his conceptions;--namely, that the matter now condensed into
the Solar System, once formed a vast rotating spheroid of extreme rarity extending beyond the
orbit of the outermost planet; that as this spheroid contracted, its rate of rotation necessarily
increased; that by augmenting centrifugal force its equatorial zone was from time to time prevented
from following any further the concentrating mass, and so remained behind as a revolving ring;
that each of the revolving rings thus periodically detached, eventually became ruptured at
its weakest point, and, contracting on itself, gradually aggregated into a rotating mass; that
this, like the parent mass, increased in rapidity of rotation as it decreased in size, and,
where the centrifugal force was sufficient, similarly left behind rings, which finally collapsed
into rotating spheroids; and that thus, out of these primary and secondary rings, there arose
planets and their satellites, while from the central mass there resulted the Sun. Moreover,
it is tolerably well known that this a priori reasoning harmonizes with the results of experiment.
Dr. Plateau has shown that when a mass of fluid is, as far may be, protected from the action
of external forces, it will, if made to rotate with adequate velocity, form detached rings;
and that these rings will break up into spheroids which turn on their axes in the same direction
with the central mass. Thus, given the original nebula, which, acquiring a vortical motion
in the way indicated, has at length concentrated into a vast spheroid of aeriform matter moving
round its axis--given this, and mechanical principles explain the rest. The genesis of a Solar
System displaying movements like those observed, may be predicted; and the reasoning on which
the prediction is based is countenanced by experiment.[17]

But now let us inquire whether, besides these most conspicuous structural and dynamic peculiarities
of the Solar System, sundry minor ones are not similarly explicable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Take first the relation between the planes of the planetary orbits and the plane of the Sun's
equator. If, when the nebulous spheroid extended beyond the orbit of Neptune, all parts of
it had been revolving exactly in the same plane, or rather in parallel planes--if all its parts
had had one axis; then the planes of the successive rings would have been coincident with each
other and with that of the Sun's rotation. But it needs only to go back to the earlier stages
of concentration, to see that there could exist no such complete uniformity of motion. The
flocculi, already described as precipitated from an irregular and widely-diffused nebula, and
as starting from all points to their common centre of gravity, must move not in one plane but
in innumerable planes, cutting each other at all angles. The gradual establishment of a vortical
motion such as we at present see indicated in the spiral nebulæ, is the gradual approach towards
motion in one plane. But this plane can but slowly become decided. Flocculi not moving in this
plane, but entering into the aggregation at various inclinations, will tend to perform their
revolutions round its centre in their own planes; and only in course of time will their motions
be partly destroyed by conflicting ones, and partly resolved into the general motion. Especially
will the outermost portions of the rotating mass retain for a long time their more or less
independent directions. Hence the probabilities are, that the planes of the rings first detached
will differ considerably from the average plane of the mass; while the planes of those detached
latest will differ from it less.

Here, again, inference to a considerable extent agrees with observation. Though the progression
is irregular, yet, on the average, the inclinations decrease on approaching the Sun; and this
is all we can expect. For as the portions of the nebulous spheroid must have arrived with miscellaneous
inclinations, its strata must have had planes of rotation diverging from the average plane
in degrees not always proportionate to their distances from the centre.

       *       *       *       *       *

Consider next the movements of the planets on their axes. Laplace alleged as one among other
evidences of a common genetic cause, that the planets rotate in a direction the same as that
in which they go round the Sun, and on axes approximately perpendicular to their orbits. Since
he wrote, an exception to this general rule has been discovered in the case of Uranus, and
another still more recently in the case of Neptune--judging, at least, from the motions of
their respective satellites. This anomaly has been thought to throw considerable doubt on his
speculation; and at first sight it does so. But a little reflection shows that the anomaly
is not inexplicable, and that Laplace simply went too far in putting down as a certain result
of nebular genesis, what is, in some instances, only a probable result. The cause he pointed
out as determining the direction of rotation, is the greater absolute velocity of the outer
part of the detached ring. But there are conditions under which this difference of velocity
may be too insignificant, even if it exists. If a mass of nebulous matter approaching spirally
to the central spheroid, and eventually joining it tangentially, is made up of parts having
the same absolute velocities; then, after joining the equatorial periphery of the spheroid
and being made to rotate with it, the angular velocity of its outer parts will be smaller than
the angular velocity of its inner parts. Hence, if, when the angular velocities of the outer
and inner parts of a detached ring are the same, there results a tendency to rotation in the
same direction with the orbital motion, it may be inferred that when the outer parts of the
ring have a smaller angular velocity than the inner parts, a tendency to retrograde rotation
will be the consequence.

Again, the sectional form of the ring is a circumstance of moment; and this form must have
differed more or less in every case. To make this clear, some illustration will be necessary.
Suppose we take an orange, and, assuming the marks of the stalk and the calyx to represent
the poles, cut off round the line of the equator a strip of peel. This strip of peel, if placed
on the table with its ends meeting, will make a ring shaped like the hoop of a barrel--a ring
of which the thickness in the line of its diameter is very small, but of which the width in
a direction perpendicular to its diameter is considerable. Suppose, now, that in place of an
orange, which is a spheroid of very slight oblateness, we take a spheroid of very great oblateness,
shaped somewhat like a lens of small convexity. If from the edge or equator of this lens-shaped
spheroid, a ring of moderate size were cut off, it would be unlike the previous ring in this
respect, that its greatest thickness would be in the line of its diameter, and not in a line
at right angles to its diameter: it would be a ring shaped somewhat like a quoit, only far
more slender. That is to say, according to the oblateness of a rotating spheroid, the detached
ring may be either a hoop-shaped ring or a quoit-shaped ring.

One further implication must be noted. In a much-flattened or lens-shaped spheroid, the form
of the ring will vary with its bulk. A very slender ring, taking off just the equatorial surface,
will be hoop-shaped; while a tolerably massive ring, trenching appreciably on the diameter
of the spheroid, will be quoit-shaped. Thus, then, according to the oblateness of the spheroid
and the bulkiness of the detached ring, will the greatest thickness of that ring be in the
direction of its plane, or in a direction perpendicular to its plane. But this circumstance
must greatly affect the rotation of the resulting planet. In a decidedly hoop-shaped nebulous
ring, the differences of velocity between the inner and outer surfaces will be small; and such
a ring, aggregating into a mass of which the greatest diameter is at right angles to the plane
of the orbit, will almost certainly give to this mass a predominant tendency to rotate in a
direction at right angles to the plane of the orbit. Where the ring is but little hoop-shaped,
and the difference between the inner and outer velocities greater, as it must be, the opposing
tendencies--one to produce rotation in the plane of the orbit, and the other, rotation perpendicular
to it--will both be influential; and an intermediate plane of rotation will be taken up. While,
if the nebulous ring is decidedly quoit-shaped, and therefore aggregates into a mass whose
greatest dimension lies in the plane of the orbit, both tendencies will conspire to produce
rotation in that plane.

On referring to the facts, we find them, as far as can be judged, in harmony with this view.
Considering the enormous circumference of Uranus's orbit, and his comparatively small mass,
we may conclude that the ring from which he resulted was a comparatively slender, and therefore
a hoop-shaped one: especially as the nebulous mass must have been at that time less oblate
than afterwards. Hence, a plane of rotation nearly perpendicular to his orbit, and a direction
of rotation having no reference to his orbital movement. Saturn has a mass seven times as great,
and an orbit of less than half the diameter; whence it follows that his genetic ring, having
less than half the circumference, and less than half the vertical thickness (the spheroid being
then certainly as oblate, and indeed more oblate), must have had a much greater width--must
have been less hoop-shaped, and more approaching to the quoit-shaped: notwithstanding difference
of density, it must have been at least two or three times as broad in the line of its plane.
Consequently, Saturn has a rotatory movement in the same direction as the movement of translation,
and in a plane differing from it by thirty degrees only. In the case of Jupiter, again, whose
mass is three and a half times that of Saturn, and whose orbit is little more than half the
size, the genetic ring must, for the like reasons, have been still broader--decidedly quoit-shaped,
we may say; and there hence resulted a planet whose plane of rotation differs from that of
his orbit by scarcely more than three degrees. Once more, considering the comparative insignificance
of Mars, Earth, Venus, and Mercury, it follows that, the diminishing circumferences of the
rings not sufficing to account for the smallness of the resulting masses, the rings must have
been slender ones--must have again approximated to the hoop-shaped; and thus it happens that
the planes of rotation again diverge more or less widely from those of the orbits. Taking into
account the increasing oblateness of the original spheroid in the successive stages of its
concentration, and the different proportions of the detached rings, it may fairly be held that
the respective rotatory motions are not at variance with the hypothesis but contrariwise tend
to confirm it.

Not only the directions, but also the velocities of rotation seem thus explicable. It might
naturally be supposed that the large planets would revolve on their axes more slowly than the
small ones: our terrestrial experiences of big and little bodies incline us to expect this.
It is a corollary from the Nebular Hypothesis, however, more especially when interpreted as
above, that while large planets will rotate rapidly, small ones will rotate slowly; and we
find that in fact they do so. Other things equal, a concentrating nebulous mass which is diffused
through a wide space, and whose outer parts have, therefore, to travel from great distances
to the common centre of gravity, will acquire a high axial velocity in course of its aggregation;
and conversely with a small mass. Still more marked will be the difference where the form of
the genetic ring conspires to increase the rate of rotation. Other things equal, a genetic
ring which is broadest in the direction of its plane will produce a mass rotating faster than
one which is broadest at right angles to its plane; and if the ring is absolutely as well as
relatively broad, the rotation will be very rapid. These conditions were, as we saw, fulfilled
in the case of Jupiter; and Jupiter turns round his axis in less than ten hours. Saturn, in
whose case, as above explained, the conditions were less favourable to rapid rotation, takes
nearly ten hours and a half. While Mars, Earth, Venus, and Mercury, whose rings must have been
slender, take more than double that time: the smallest taking the longest.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the planets let us now pass to the satellites. Here, beyond the conspicuous facts commonly
adverted to, that they go round their primaries in the directions in which these turn on their
axes, in planes diverging but little from their equators, and in orbits nearly circular, there
are several significant traits which must not be passed over.

One of them is that each set of satellites repeats in miniature the relations of the planets
to the Sun, both in certain respects above named and in the order of their sizes. On progressing
from the outside of the Solar System to its centre, we see that there are four large external
planets, and four internal ones which are comparatively small. A like contrast holds between
the outer and inner satellites in every case. Among the four satellites of Jupiter, the parallel
is maintained as well as the comparative smallness of the number allows: the two outer ones
are the largest, and the two inner ones the smallest. According to the most recent observations
made by Mr. Lassell, the like is true of the four satellites of Uranus. In the case of Saturn,
who has eight secondary planets revolving round him, the likeness is still more close in arrangement
as in number: the three outer satellites are large, the inner ones small; and the contrasts
of size are here much greater between the largest, which is nearly as big as Mars, and the
smallest, which is with difficulty discovered even by the best telescopes. But the analogy
does not end here. Just as with the planets, there is at first a general increase of size on
travelling inwards from Neptune and Uranus, which do not differ very widely, to Saturn, which
is much larger, and to Jupiter, which is the largest; so of the eight satellites of Saturn,
the largest is not the outermost, but the outermost save two; so of Jupiter's four secondaries,
the largest is the most remote but one. Now these parallelisms are inexplicable by the theory
of final causes. For purposes of lighting, if this be the presumed object of these attendant
bodies, it would have been far better had the larger been the nearer: at present, their remoteness
renders them of less service than the smallest. To the Nebular Hypothesis, however, these analogies
give further support. They show the action of a common physical cause. They imply a law of
genesis, holding in the secondary systems as in the primary system.

Still more instructive shall we find the distribution of the satellites--their absence in some
instances, and their presence in other instances, in smaller or greater numbers. The argument
from design fails to account for this distribution. Supposing it be granted that planets nearer
the Sun than ourselves, have no need of moons (though, considering that their nights are as
dark, and, relatively to their brilliant days, even darker than ours, the need seems quite
as great)--supposing this to be granted; how are we to explain the fact that Uranus has but
half as many moons as Saturn, though he is at double the distance? While, however, the current
presumption is untenable, the Nebular Hypothesis furnishes us with an explanation. It enables
us to predict where satellites will be abundant and where they will be absent. The reasoning
is as follows.

In a rotating nebulous spheroid which is concentrating into a planet, there are at work two
antagonist mechanical tendencies--the centripetal and the centrifugal. While the force of gravitation
draws all the atoms of the spheroid together, their tangential momentum is resolvable into
two parts, of which one resists gravitation. The ratio which this centrifugal force bears to
gravitation, varies, other things equal, as the square of the velocity. Hence, the aggregation
of a rotating nebulous spheroid will be more or less hindered by this resisting force, according
as the rate of rotation is high or low: the opposition, in equal spheroids, being four times
as great when the rotation is twice as rapid; nine times as great when it is three times as
rapid; and so on. Now the detachment of a ring from a planet-forming body of nebulous matter,
implies that at its equatorial zone the increasing centrifugal force consequent on concentration
has become so great as to balance gravity. Whence it is tolerably obvious that the detachment
of rings will be most frequent from those masses in which the centrifugal tendency bears the
greatest ratio to the gravitative tendency. Though it is not possible to calculate what ratio
these two tendencies had to each other in the genetic spheroid which produced each planet,
it is possible to calculate where each was the greatest and where the least. While it is true
that the ratio which centrifugal force now bears to gravity at the equator of each planet,
differs widely from that which it bore during the earlier stages of concentration; and while
it is true that this change in the ratio, depending on the degree of contraction each planet
has undergone, has in no two cases been the same; yet we may fairly conclude that where the
ratio is still the greatest, it has been the greatest from the beginning. The satellite-forming
tendency which each planet had, will be approximately indicated by the proportion now existing
in it between the aggregating power, and the power that has opposed aggregation. On making
the requisite calculations, a remarkable harmony with this inference comes out. The following
table shows what fraction the centrifugal force is of the centripetal force in every case;
and the relation which that fraction bears to the number of satellites.[18]

   Mercury.  1/360
   Venus.    1/253
   Earth.    1/289    1 Satellite.
   Mars.     1/127    2 Satellites.
   Jupiter.  1/11·4   4 Satellites.
   Saturn.   1/6·4    8 Satellites, and three rings.
   Uranus.   1/10·9   4 Satellites.

Thus taking as our standard of comparison the Earth with its one moon, we see that Mercury,
in which the centrifugal force is relatively less, has no moon. Mars, in which it is relatively
much greater, has two moons. Jupiter, in which it is far greater, has four moons. Uranus, in
which it is greater still, has certainly four, and more if Herschel was right. Saturn, in which
it is the greatest, being nearly one-sixth of gravity, has, including his rings, eleven attendants.
The only instance in which there is nonconformity with observation, is that of Venus. Here
it appears that the centrifugal force is relatively greater than in the Earth; and, according
to the hypothesis, Venus ought to have a satellite. Respecting this anomaly several remarks
are to be made. Without putting any faith in the alleged discovery of a satellite of Venus
(repeated at intervals by five different observers), it may yet be contended that as the satellites
of Mars eluded observation up to 1877, a satellite of Venus may have eluded observation up
to the present time. Merely naming this as possible, but not probable, a consideration of more
weight is that the period of rotation of Venus is but indefinitely fixed, and that a small
diminution in the estimated angular velocity of her equator would bring the result into congruity
with the hypothesis. Further, it may be remarked that not exact, but only general, congruity
is to be expected; since the process of condensation of each planet from nebulous matter can
scarcely be expected to have gone on with absolute uniformity: the angular velocities of the
superposed strata of nebulous matter probably differed from one another in degrees unlike in
each case; and such differences would affect the satellite-forming tendency. But without making
much of these possible explanations of the discrepancy, the correspondence between inference
and fact which we find in so many planets, may be held to afford strong support to the Nebular
Hypothesis.

Certain more special peculiarities of the satellites must be mentioned as suggestive. One of
them is the relation between the period of revolution and that of rotation. No discoverable
purpose is served by making the Moon go round its axis in the same time that it goes round
the Earth: for our convenience, a more rapid axial motion would have been equally good; and
for any possible inhabitants of the Moon, much better. Against the alternative supposition,
that the equality occurred by accident, the probabilities are, as Laplace says, infinity to
one. But to this arrangement, which is explicable neither as the result of design nor of chance,
the Nebular Hypothesis furnishes a clue. In his Exposition du Système du Monde, Laplace shows,
by reasoning too detailed to be here repeated, that under the circumstances such a relation
of movements would be likely to establish itself.

Among Jupiter's satellites, which severally display these same synchronous movements, there
also exists a still more remarkable relation. "If the mean angular velocity of the first satellite
be added to twice that of the third, the sum will be equal to three times that of the second;"
and "from this it results that the situations of any two of them being given, that of the third
can be found." Now here, as before, no conceivable advantage results. Neither in this case
can the connexion have been accidental: the probabilities are infinity to one to the contrary.
But again, according to Laplace, the Nebular Hypothesis supplies a solution. Are not these
significant facts?

Most significant fact of all, however, is that presented by the rings of Saturn. As Laplace
remarks, they are, as it were, still extant witnesses of the genetic process he propounded.
Here we have, continuing permanently, forms of aggregation like those through which each planet
and satellite once passed; and their movements are just what, in conformity with the hypothesis,
they should be. "La durée de la rotation d'une planète doit donc être, d'après cette hypothèse,
plus petite que la durée de la révolution du corps le plus voisin qui circule autour d'elle,"
says Laplace. And he then points out that the time of Saturn's rotation is to that of his rings
as 427 to 438--an amount of difference such as was to be expected.[19]

Respecting Saturn's rings it may be further remarked that the place of their occurrence is
not without significance.

Rings detached early in the process of concentration, consisting of gaseous matter having extremely
little power of cohesion, can have little ability to resist the disruptive forces due to imperfect
balance; and, therefore, collapse into satellites. A ring of a denser kind, whether solid,
liquid, or composed of small discrete masses (as Saturn's rings are now concluded to be), we
can expect will be formed only near the body of a planet when it has reached so late a stage
of concentration that its equatorial portions contain matters capable of easy precipitation
into liquid and, finally, solid forms. Even then it can be produced only under special conditions.
Gaining a rapidly-increasing preponderance as the gravitative force does during the closing
stages of concentration, the centrifugal force cannot, in ordinary cases, cause the leaving
behind of rings when the mass has become dense. Only where the centrifugal force has all along
been very great, and remains powerful to the last, as in Saturn, can we expect dense rings
to be formed.

We find, then, that besides those most conspicuous peculiarities of the Solar System which
first suggested the theory of its evolution, there are many minor ones pointing in the same
direction. Were there no other evidence, these mechanical arrangements would, considered in
their totality, go far to establish the Nebular Hypothesis.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the mechanical arrangements of the Solar System, turn we now to its physical characters;
and, first, let us consider the inferences deducible from relative specific gravities.

The fact that, speaking generally, the denser planets are the nearer to the Sun, has been by
some considered as adding another to the many indications of nebular origin. Legitimately assuming
that the outermost parts of a rotating nebulous spheroid, in its earlier stages of concentration,
must be comparatively rare; and that the increasing density which the whole mass acquires as
it contracts, must hold of the outermost parts as well as the rest; it is argued that the rings
successively detached will be more and more dense, and will form planets of higher and higher
specific gravities. But passing over other objections, this explanation is quite inadequate
to account for the facts. Using the Earth as a standard of comparison, the relative densities
run thus:--

   Neptune. Uranus. Saturn. Jupiter. Mars. Earth. Venus. Mercury. Sun.
    0·17     0·25    0·11    0·23    0·45   1·00   0·92   1·26    0·25

Two insurmountable objections are presented by this series. The first is, that the progression
is but a broken one. Neptune is denser than Saturn, which, by the hypothesis, it ought not
to be. Uranus is denser than Jupiter, which it ought not to be. Uranus is denser than Saturn,
and the Earth is denser than Venus--facts which not only give no countenance to, but directly
contradict, the alleged explanation. The second objection, still more manifestly fatal, is
the low specific gravity of the Sun. If, when the matter of the Sun filled the orbit of Mercury,
its state of aggregation was such that the detached ring formed a planet having a specific
gravity equal to that of iron; then the Sun itself, now that it has concentrated, should have
a specific gravity much greater than that of iron; whereas its specific gravity is only half
as much again as that of water. Instead of being far denser than the nearest planet, it is
but one-fifth as dense.

While these anomalies render untenable the position that the relative specific gravities of
the planets are direct indications of nebular condensation; it by no means follows that they
negative it. Several causes may be assigned for these unlikenesses:--1. Differences among the
planets in respect of the elementary substances composing them; or in the proportions of such
elementary substances, if they contain the same kinds. 2. Differences among them in respect
of the quantities of matter they contain; for, other things equal, the mutual gravitation of
molecules will make a larger mass denser than a smaller. 3. Differences of temperatures; for,
other things equal, those having higher temperatures will have lower specific gravities. 4.
Differences of physical states, as being gaseous, liquid, or solid; or, otherwise, differences
in the relative amounts of the solid, liquid, and gaseous matter they contain.

It is quite possible, and we may indeed say probable, that all these causes come into play,
and that they take various shares in the production of the several results. But difficulties
stand in the way of definite conclusions. Nevertheless, if we revert to the hypothesis of nebular
genesis, we are furnished with partial explanations if nothing more.

In the cooling of celestial bodies several factors are concerned. The first and simplest is
the one illustrated at every fire-side by the rapid blackening of little cinders which fall
into the ashes, in contrast with the long-continued redness of big lumps. This factor is the
relation between increase of surface and increase of content: surfaces, in similar bodies,
increasing as the squares of the dimensions while contents increase as their cubes. Hence,
on comparing the Earth with Jupiter, whose diameter is about eleven times that of the Earth,
it results that while his surface is 125 times as great, his content is 1390 times as great.
Now even (supposing we assume like temperatures and like densities) if the only effect were
that through a given area of surface eleven times more matter had to be cooled in the one case
than in the other, there would be a vast difference between the times occupied in concentration.
But, in virtue of a second factor, the difference would be much greater than that consequent
on these geometrical relations. The escape of heat from a cooling mass is effected by conduction,
or by convection, or by both. In a solid it is wholly by conduction; in a liquid or gas the
chief part is played by convection--by circulating currents which continually transpose the
hotter and cooler parts. Now in fluid spheroids--gaseous, or liquid, or mixed--increasing size
entails an increasing obstacle to cooling, consequent on the increasing distances to be travelled
by the circulating currents. Of course the relation is not a simple one: the velocities of
the currents will be unlike. It is manifest, however, that in a sphere of eleven times the
diameter, the transit of matter from centre to surface and back from surface to centre, will
take a much longer time; even if its movement is unrestrained. But its movement is, in such
cases as we are considering, greatly restrained. In a rotating spheroid there come into play
retarding forces augmenting with the velocity of rotation. In such a spheroid the respective
portions of matter (supposing them equal in their angular velocities round the axis, which
they will tend more and more to become as the density increases), must vary in their absolute
velocities according to their distances from the axis; and each portion cannot have its distance
from the axis changed by circulating currents, which it must continually be, without loss or
gain in its quantity of motion: through the medium of fluid friction, force must be expended,
now in increasing its motion and now in retarding its motion. Hence, when the larger spheroid
has also a higher velocity of rotation, the relative slowness of the circulating currents,
and the consequent retardation of cooling, must be much greater than is implied by the extra
distances to be travelled.

And now observe the correspondence between inference and fact. In the first place, if we compare
the group of the great planets, Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, with the group of the small planets,
Mars, Earth, Venus, and Mercury, we see that low density goes along with great size and great
velocity of rotation, and that high density goes along with small size and small velocity of
rotation. In the second place, we are shown this relation still more clearly if we compare
the extreme instances--Saturn and Mercury. The special contrast of these two, like the general
contrast of the groups, points to the truth that low density, like the satellite-forming tendency,
is associated with the ratio borne by centrifugal force to gravity; for in the case of Saturn
with his many satellites and least density, centrifugal force at the equator is nearly 1/6th
of gravity, whereas in Mercury with no satellite and greatest density centrifugal force is
but 1/360th of gravity.

There are, however, certain factors which, working in an opposite way, qualify and complicate
these effects. Other things equal, mutual gravitation among the parts of a large mass will
cause a greater evolution of heat than is similarly caused in a small mass; and the resulting
difference of temperature will tend to produce more rapid dissipation of heat. To this must
be added the greater velocity of the circulating currents which the intenser forces at work
in larger spheroids will produce--a contrast made still greater by the relatively smaller retardation
by friction to which the more voluminous currents are exposed. In these causes, joined with
causes previously indicated, we may recognize a probable explanation of the otherwise anomalous
fact that the Sun, though having a thousand times the mass of Jupiter, has yet reached as advanced
a stage of concentration. For the force of gravity in the Sun, which at his surface is some
ten times that at the surface of Jupiter, must expose his central parts to a pressure relatively
very intense; producing, during contraction, a relatively rapid genesis of heat. And it is
further to be remarked that, though the circulating currents in the Sun have far greater distances
to travel, yet since his rotation is relatively so slow that the angular velocity of his substance
is but about one-sixtieth of that of Jupiter's substance, the resulting obstacle to circulating
currents is relatively small, and the escape of heat far less retarded. Here, too, we may note
that in the co-operation of these factors, there seems a reason for the greater concentration
reached by Jupiter than by Saturn, though Saturn is the elder as well as the smaller of the
two; for at the same time that the gravitative force in Jupiter is more than twice as great
as in Saturn, his velocity of rotation is very little greater, so that the opposition of the
centrifugal force to the centripetal is not much more than half.

But now, not judging more than roughly of the effects of these several factors, co-operating
in various ways and degrees, some to aid concentration and others to resist it, it is sufficiently
manifest that, other things equal, the larger nebulous spheroids, longer in losing their heat,
will more slowly reach high specific gravities; and that where the contrasts in size are so
immense as those between the greater and the smaller planets, the smaller may have reached
relatively high specific gravities when the greater have reached but relatively low ones. Further,
it appears that such qualification of the process as results from the more rapid genesis of
heat in the larger masses, will be countervailed where high velocity of rotation greatly impedes
the circulating currents. Thus interpreted then, the various specific gravities of the planets
may be held to furnish further evidences supporting the Nebular Hypothesis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Increase of density and escape of heat are correlated phenomena, and hence in the foregoing
section, treating of the respective densities of the celestial bodies in connexion with nebular
condensation, much has been said and implied respecting the accompanying genesis and dissipation
of heat. Quite apart, however, from the foregoing arguments and inferences, there is to be
noted the fact that in the present temperatures of the celestial bodies at large we find additional
supports to the hypothesis; and these, too, of the most substantial character. For if, as is
implied above, heat must inevitably be generated by the aggregation of diffused matter, we
ought to find in all the heavenly bodies, either present high temperatures or marks of past
high temperatures. This we do, in the places and in the degrees which the hypothesis requires.

Observations showing that as we descend below the Earth's surface there is a progressive increase
of heat, joined with the conspicuous evidence furnished by volcanoes, necessitate the conclusion
that the temperature is very high at great depths. Whether, as some believe, the interior of
the Earth is still molten, or whether, as Sir William Thomson contends, it must be solid; there
is agreement in the inference that its heat is intense. And it has been further shown that
the rate at which the temperature increases on descending below the surface, is such as would
be found in a mass which had been cooling for an indefinite period. The Moon, too, shows us,
by its corrugations and its conspicuous extinct volcanoes, that in it there has been a process
of refrigeration and contraction, like that which has gone on in the Earth. There is no teleological
explanation of these facts. The frequent destructions of life by earthquakes and volcanoes,
imply, rather, that it would have been better had the Earth been created with a low internal
temperature. But if we contemplate the facts in connexion with the Nebular Hypothesis, we see
that this still-continued high internal heat is one of its corollaries. The Earth must have
passed through the gaseous and the molten conditions before it became solid, and must for an
almost infinite period by its internal heat continue to bear evidence of this origin.

The group of giant planets furnishes remarkable evidence. The a priori inference drawn above,
that great size joined with relatively high ratio of centrifugal force to gravity must greatly
retard aggregation, and must thus, by checking the genesis and dissipation of heat, make the
process of cooling a slow one, has of late years received verifications from inferences drawn
a posteriori; so that now the current conclusion among astronomers is that in physical condition
the great planets are in stages midway between that of the Earth and that of the Sun. The fact
that the centre of Jupiter's disc is twice or thrice as bright as his periphery, joined with
the facts that he seems to radiate more light than is accounted for by reflection of the Sun's
rays, and that his spectrum shows the "red-star line", are taken as evidences of luminosity;
while the immense and rapid perturbations in his atmosphere, far greater than could be caused
by heat received from the Sun, as well as the formation of spots analogous to those of the
Sun, which also, like those of the Sun, show a higher rate of rotation near the equator than
further from it, are held to imply high internal temperature. Thus in Jupiter, as also in Saturn,
we find states which, not admitting of any teleological explanations (for they manifestly exclude
the possibility of life), admit of explanations derived from the Nebular Hypothesis.

But the argument from temperature does not end here. There remains to be noticed a more conspicuous
and still more significant fact. If the Solar System was produced by the concentration of diffused
matter, which evolved heat while gravitating into its present dense form; then there is an
obvious implication. Other things equal, the latest-formed mass will be the latest in cooling--will,
for an almost infinite time, possess a greater heat than the earlier-formed ones. Other things
equal, the largest mass will, because of its superior aggregative force, become hotter than
the others, and radiate more intensely. Other things equal, the largest mass, notwithstanding
the higher temperature it reaches, will, in consequence of its relatively small surface, be
the slowest in losing its evolved heat. And hence, if there is one mass which was not only
formed after the rest, but exceeds them enormously in size, it follows that this one will reach
an intensity of incandescence far beyond that reached by the rest; and will continue in a state
of intense incandescence long after the rest have cooled. Such a mass we have in the Sun. It
is a corollary from the Nebular Hypothesis, that the matter forming the Sun assumed its present
integrated shape at a period much more recent than that at which the planets became definite
bodies. The quantity of matter contained in the Sun is nearly five million times that contained
in the smallest planet, and above a thousand times that contained in the largest. And while,
from the enormous gravitative force of his parts to their common centre, the evolution of heat
has been intense, the facilities of radiation have been relatively small. Hence the still-continued
high temperature. Just that condition of the central body which is a necessary inference from
the Nebular Hypothesis, we find actually existing in the Sun.

[The paragraph which here follows, though it contains some questionable propositions, I reproduce
just as it stood when first published in 1858, for reasons which will presently be apparent.]

It may be well to consider more closely, what is the probable condition of the Sun's surface.
Round the globe of incandescent molten substances, thus conceived to form the visible body
of the Sun [which in conformity with the argument in a previous section, now transferred to
the Addenda, was inferred to be hollow and filled with gaseous matter at high tension] there
is known to exist a voluminous atmosphere: the inferior brilliancy of the Sun's border, and
the appearances during a total eclipse, alike show this. What now must be the constitution
of this atmosphere? At a temperature approaching a thousand times that of molten iron, which
is the calculated temperature of the solar surface, very many, if not all, of the substances
we know as solid, would become gaseous; and though the Sun's enormous attractive force must
be a powerful check on this tendency to assume the form of vapour, yet it cannot be questioned
that if the body of the Sun consists of molten substances, some of them must be constantly
undergoing evaporation. That the dense gases thus continually being generated will form the
entire mass of the solar atmosphere, is not probable. If anything is to be inferred, either
from the Nebular Hypothesis, or from the analogies supplied by the planets, it must be concluded
that the outermost part of the solar atmosphere consists of what are called permanent gases--gases
that are not condensible into fluid even at low temperatures. If we consider what must have
been the state of things here, when the surface of the Earth was molten, we shall see that
round the still molten surface of the Sun, there probably exists a stratum of dense aeriform
matter, made up of sublimed metals and metallic compounds, and above this a stratum of comparatively
rare medium analogous to air. What now will happen with these two strata? Did they both consist
of permanent gases, they could not remain separate: according to a well-known law, they would
eventually form a homogeneous mixture. But this will by no means happen when the lower stratum
consists of matters that are gaseous only at excessively high temperatures. Given off from
a molten surface, ascending, expanding, and cooling, these will presently reach a limit of
elevation above which they cannot exist as vapour, but must condense and precipitate. Meanwhile
the upper stratum, habitually charged with its quantum of these denser matters, as our air
with its quantum of water, and ready to deposit them on any depression of temperature, must
be habitually unable to take up any more of the lower stratum; and therefore this lower stratum
will remain quite distinct from it.[20]

       *       *       *       *       *

Considered in their ensemble, the several groups of evidences assigned amount almost to proof.
We have seen that, when critically examined, the speculations of late years current respecting
the nature of the nebulæ, commit their promulgators to sundry absurdities; while, on the other
hand, we see that the various appearances these nebulæ present, are explicable as different
stages in the precipitation and aggregation of diffused matter. We find that the immense majority
of comets (i.e. omitting the periodic ones), by their physical constitution, their immensely-extended
and variously-directed paths, the distribution of those paths, and their manifest structural
relation to the Solar System, bear testimony to the past existence of that system in a nebulous
form. Not only do those obvious peculiarities in the motions of the planets which first suggested
the Nebular Hypothesis, supply proofs of it, but on closer examination we discover, in the
slightly-diverging inclinations of their orbits, in their various rates of rotation, and their
differently-directed axes of rotation, that the planets yield us yet further testimony; while
the satellites, by sundry traits, and especially by their occurrence in greater or less abundance
where the hypothesis implies greater or less abundance, confirm this testimony. By tracing
out the process of planetary condensation, we are led to conclusions respecting the physical
states of planets which explain their anomalous specific gravities. Once more, it turns out
that what is inferable from the Nebular Hypothesis respecting the temperatures of celestial
bodies, is just what observation establishes; and that both the absolute and the relative temperatures
of the Sun and planets are thus accounted for. When we contemplate these various evidences
in their totality--when we observe that, by the Nebular Hypothesis, the leading phenomena of
the Solar System, and the heavens in general, are explicable; and when, on the other hand,
we consider that the current cosmogony is not only without a single fact to stand on, but is
at variance with all our positive knowledge of Nature, we see that the proof becomes overwhelming.

It remains only to point out that while the genesis of the Solar System, and of countless other
systems like it, is thus rendered comprehensible, the ultimate mystery continues as great as
ever. The problem of existence is not solved: it is simply removed further back. The Nebular
Hypothesis throws no light on the origin of diffused matter; and diffused matter as much needs
accounting for as concrete matter. The genesis of an atom is not easier to conceive than the
genesis of a planet. Nay, indeed, so far from making the Universe less a mystery than before,
it makes it a greater mystery. Creation by manufacture is a much lower thing than creation
by evolution. A man can put together a machine; but he cannot make a machine develop itself.
That our harmonious universe once existed potentially as formless diffused matter, and has
slowly grown into its present organized state, is a far more astonishing fact than would have
been its formation after the artificial method vulgarly supposed. Those who hold it legitimate
to argue from phenomena to noumena, may rightly contend that the Nebular Hypothesis implies
a First Cause as much transcending "the mechanical God of Paley," as this does the fetish of
the savage.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 11: Cosmos. (Seventh Edition.) Vol. i. pp. 79, 80.]

[Footnote 12: Since the publication of this essay the late Mr. R. A. Proctor has given various
further reasons for the conclusion that the nebulæ belong to our own sidereal system. The opposite
conclusion, contested throughout the foregoing section, has now been tacitly abandoned.]

[Footnote 13: Any objection made to the extreme tenuity this involves, is met by the calculation
of Newton, who proved that were a spherical inch of air removed four thousand miles from the
Earth, it would expand into a sphere more than filling the orbit of Saturn.]

[Footnote 14: A reference may fitly be made here to a reason given by Mons. Babinet for rejection
of the Nebular Hypothesis. He has calculated that taking the existing Sun, with its observed
angular velocity, its substance, if expanded so as to fill the orbit of Neptune, would have
nothing approaching the angular velocity which the time of revolution of that planet implies.
The assumption he makes is inadmissible. He supposes that all parts of the nebulous spheroid
when it filled Neptune's orbit, had the same angular velocities. But the process of nebular
condensation as indicated above, implies that the remoter flocculi of nebulous matter, later
in reaching the central mass, and forming its peripheral portions, will acquire, during their
longer journeys towards it, greater velocities. An inspection of one of the spiral nebulæ,
as 51st or 99th Messier, at once shows that the outlying portions when they reach the nucleus,
will form an equatorial belt moving round the common centre more rapidly than the rest. Thus
the central parts will have small angular velocities, while there will be increasing angular
velocities of parts increasingly remote from the centre. And while the density of the spheroid
continues small, fluid friction will scarcely at all change these differences.

A like criticism may, I think, be passed on an opinion expressed by Prof. Newcomb. He says:--"When
the contraction [of the nebulous spheroid] had gone so far that the centrifugal and attracting
forces nearly balanced each other at the outer equatorial limit of the mass, the result would
have been that contraction in the direction of the equator would cease entirely, and be confined
to the polar regions, each particle dropping, not towards the sun, but towards the plane of
the solar equator. Thus, we should have a constant flattening of the spheroidal atmosphere
until it was reduced to a thin flat disk. This disk might then separate itself into rings,
which would form planets in much the same way that Laplace supposed. But there would probably
be no marked difference in the age of the planets." (Popular Astronomy, p. 512.) Now this conclusion
assumes, like that of M. Babinet, that all parts of the nebulous spheroid had equal angular
velocities. If, as above contended, it is inferable from the process by which a nebulous spheroid
was formed, that its outer portions revolved with greater angular velocities than its inner;
then the inference which Prof. Newcomb draws is not necessitated.]

[Footnote 15: It is true that since this essay was written reasons have been given for concluding
that comets consist of swarms of meteors enveloped in aeriform matter. Very possibly this is
the constitution of the periodic comets which, approximating their orbits to the plane of the
Solar System, form established parts of the System, and which, as will be hereafter indicated,
have probably a quite different origin.]

[Footnote 16: Though this rule fails at the periphery of the Solar System, yet it fails only
where the axis of rotation, instead of being almost perpendicular to the orbit-plane, is very
little inclined to it; and where, therefore, the forces tending to produce the congruity of
motions were but little operative.]

[Footnote 17: It is true that, as expressed by him, these propositions of Laplace are not all
beyond dispute. An astronomer of the highest authority, who has favoured me with some criticisms
on this essay, alleges that instead of a nebulous ring rupturing at one point, and collapsing
into a single mass, "all probability would be in favour of its breaking up into many masses."
This alternative result certainly seems the more likely. But granting that a nebulous ring
would break up into many masses, it may still be contended that, since the chances are infinity
to one against these being of equal sizes and equidistant, they could not remain evenly distributed
round their orbit. This annular chain of gaseous masses would break up into groups of masses;
these groups would eventually aggregate into larger groups; and the final result would be the
formation of a single mass. I have put the question to an astronomer scarcely second in authority
to the one above referred to, and he agrees that this would probably be the process.]

[Footnote 18: The comparative statement here given differs, slightly in most cases and in one
case largely, from the statement included in this essay as originally published in 1858. As
then given the table ran thus:--

   Mercury.   1/362
   Venus.     1/282
   Earth.     1/289   1 Satellite.
   Mars.      1/326
   Jupiter.   1/14    4 Satellites.
   Saturn.    1/6·2   8 Satellites, and three rings.
   Uranus.    1/9     4 (or 6 according to Herschel).

The calculations ending with these figures were made while the Sun's distance was still estimated
at 95 millions of miles. Of course the reduction afterwards established in the estimated distance,
entailing, as it did, changes in the factors which entered into the calculations, affected
the results; and, though it was unlikely that the relations stated would be materially changed,
it was needful to have the calculations made afresh. Mr. Lynn has been good enough to undertake
this task, and the figures given in the text are his. In the case of Mars a large error in
my calculation had arisen from accepting Arago's statement of his density (0·95), which proves
to be something like double what it should be. Here a curious incident may be named. When,
in 1877, it was discovered that Mars has two satellites, though, according to my hypothesis,
it seemed that he should have none, my faith in it received a shock; and since that time I
have occasionally considered whether the fact is in any way reconcilable with the hypothesis.
But now the proof afforded by Mr. Lynn that my calculation contained a wrong factor, disposes
of the difficulty--nay, changes the objection to a verification. It turns out that, according
to the hypothesis, Mars ought to have satellites; and, further, that he ought to have a number
intermediate between 1 and 4.]

[Footnote 19: Since this paragraph was first published, the discovery that Mars has two satellites
revolving round him in periods shorter than that of his rotation, has shown that the implication
on which Laplace here insists is general only, and not absolute. Were it a necessary assumption
that all parts of a concentrating nebulous spheroid revolve with the same angular velocities,
the exception would appear an inexplicable one; but if, as suggested in a preceding section,
it is inferable from the process of formation of a nebulous spheroid, that its outer strata
will move round the general axis with higher angular velocities than the inner ones, there
follows a possible interpretation. Though, during the earlier stages of concentration, while
the nebulous matter, and especially its peripheral portions, are very rare, the effects of
fluid-friction will be too small to change greatly such differences of angular velocities as
exist; yet, when concentration has reached its last stages, and the matter is passing from
the gaseous into the liquid and solid states, and when also the convection-currents have become
common to the whole mass (which they probably at first are not), the angular velocity of the
peripheral portion will gradually be assimilated to that of the interior; and it becomes comprehensible
that in the case of Mars the peripheral portion, more and more dragged back by the internal
mass, lost part of its velocity during the interval between the formation of the innermost
satellite and the arrival at the final form.]

[Footnote 20: I was about to suppress part of the above paragraph, written before the science
of solar physics had taken shape, because of certain physical difficulties which stand in the
way of its argument, when, on looking into recent astronomical works, I found that the hypothesis
it sets forth respecting the Sun's structure has kinships to the several hypotheses since set
forth by Zöllner, Faye, and Young. I have therefore decided to let it stand as it originally did.

The contemplated partial suppression just named, was prompted by recognition of the truth that
to effect mechanical stability the gaseous interior of the Sun must have a density at least
equal to that of the molten shell (greater, indeed, at the centre); and this seems to imply
a specific gravity higher than that which he possesses. It may, indeed, be that the unknown
elements which spectrum analysis shows to exist in the Sun, are metals of very low specific
gravities, and that, existing in large proportion with other of the lighter metals, they may
form a molten shell not denser than is implied by the facts. But this can be regarded as nothing
more than a possibility.

No need, however, has arisen for either relinquishing or holding but loosely the associated
conclusions respecting the constitution of the photosphere and its envelope. Widely speculative
as seemed these suggested corollaries from the Nebular Hypothesis when set forth in 1858, and
quite at variance with the beliefs then current, they proved to be not ill-founded. At the
close of 1859, there came the discoveries of Kirchhoff, proving the existence of various metallic
vapours in the Sun's atmosphere.]

ADDENDA.

Speculative as is much of the foregoing essay, it appears undesirable to include in it anything
still more speculative. For this reason I have decided to set forth separately some views concerning
the genesis of the so-called elements during nebular condensation, and concerning the accompanying
physical effects. At the same time it has seemed best to detach from the essay some of the
more debatable conclusions originally contained in it; so that its general argument may not
be needlessly implicated with them. These new portions, together with the old portions which
re-appear more or less modified, I here append in a series of notes.

NOTE I. For the belief that the so-called elements are compound there are both special reasons
and general reasons. Among the special may be named the parallelism between allotropy and isomerism;
the numerous lines in the spectrum of each element; and the cyclical law of Newlands and Mendeljeff.
Of the more general reasons, which, as distinguished from these chemical or chemico-physical
ones, may fitly be called cosmical, the following are the chief.

The general law of evolution, if it does not actually involve the conclusion that the so-called
elements are compounds, yet affords a priori ground for suspecting that they are such. The
implication is that, while the matter composing the Solar System has progressed physically
from that relatively-homogeneous state which it had as a nebula to that relatively-heterogeneous
state presented by Sun, planets, and satellites, it has also progressed chemically, from the
relatively-homogeneous state in which it was composed of one or a few types of matter, to that
relatively-heterogeneous state in which it is composed of many types of matter very diverse
in their properties. This deduction from the law which holds throughout the cosmos as now known
to us, would have much weight even were it unsupported by induction; but a survey of chemical
phenomena at large discloses several groups of inductive evidences supporting it.

The first is that since the cooling of the Earth reached an advanced stage, the components
of its crust have been ever increasing in heterogeneity. When the so-called elements, originally
existing in a dissociated state, united into oxides, acids, and other binary compounds, the
total number of different substances was immensely augmented, the new substances were more
complex than the old, and their properties were more varied. That is, the assemblage became
more heterogeneous in its kinds, in the composition of each kind, and in the range of chemical
characters. When, at a later period, there arose salts and other compounds of similar degrees
of complexity, there was again an increase of heterogeneity, alike in the aggregate and in
its members. And when, still later, matters classed as organic became possible, the multiformity
was yet further augmented in kindred ways. If, then, chemical evolution, so far as we can trace
it, has been from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous, may we not fairly suppose that it has
been so from the beginning? If, from late stages in the Earth's history, we run back, and find
the lines of chemical evolution continually converging, until they bring us to bodies which
we cannot decompose, may we not suspect that, could we run back these lines still further,
we should come to still decreasing heterogeneity in the number and nature of the substances,
until we reached something like homogeneity?

A parallel argument may be derived from consideration of the affinities and stabilities of
chemical compounds. Beginning with the complex nitrogenous bodies out of which living things
are formed, and which, in the history of the Earth, are the most modern, at the same time that
they are the most heterogeneous, we see that the affinities and stabilities of these are extremely
small. Their molecules do not enter bodily into union with those of other substances so as
to form more complex compounds still, and their components often fail to hold together under
ordinary conditions. A stage lower in degree of composition we come to the vast assemblage
of oxy-hydro-carbons, numbers of which show many and decided affinities, and are stable at
common temperatures. Passing to the inorganic group, we are shown by the salts &c. strong affinities
between their components and unions which are, in many cases, not very easily broken. And then
when we come to the oxides, acids, and other binary compounds, we see that in many cases the
elements of which they are formed, when brought into the presence of one another under favourable
conditions, unite with violence; and that many of their unions cannot be dissolved by heat
alone. If, then, as we go back from the most modern and most complex substances to the most
ancient and simplest substances, we see, on the average, a great increase in affinity and stability,
it results that if the same law holds with the simplest substances known to us, the components
of these, if they are compound, may be assumed to have united with affinities far more intense
than any we have experience of, and to cling together with tenacities far exceeding the tenacities
with which chemistry acquaints us. Hence the existence of a class of substances which are undecomposable
and therefore seem simple, appears to be an implication; and the corollary is that these were
formed during early stages of terrestrial concentration, under conditions of heat and pressure
which we cannot now parallel.

Yet another support for the belief that the so-called elements are compounds, is derived from
a comparison of them, considered as an aggregate ascending in their molecular weights, with
the aggregate of bodies known to be compound, similarly considered in their ascending molecular
weights. Contrast the binary compounds as a class with the quaternary compounds as a class.
The molecules constituting oxides (whether alkaline or acid or neutral) chlorides, sulphurets,
&c. are relatively small; and, combining with great avidity, form stable compounds. On the
other hand, the molecules constituting nitrogenous bodies are relatively vast and are chemically
inert; and such combinations as their simpler types enter into, cannot withstand disturbing
forces. Now a like difference is seen if we contrast with one another the so-called elements.
Those of relatively-low molecular weights--oxygen, hydrogen, potassium, sodium, &c.,--show
great readiness to unite among themselves; and, indeed, many of them cannot be prevented from
uniting under ordinary conditions. Contrariwise, under ordinary conditions the substances of
high molecular weights--the "noble metals"--are indifferent to other substances; and such compounds
as they do form under conditions specially adjusted, are easily destroyed. Thus as, among the
bodies we know to be compound, increasing molecular weight is associated with the appearance
of certain characters, and as, among the bodies we class as simple, increasing molecular weight
is associated with the appearance of similar characters, the composite nature of the elements
is in another way pointed to.

There has to be added one further class of phenomena, congruous with those above named, which
here specially concerns us. Looking generally at chemical unions, we see that the heat evolved
usually decreases as the degree of composition, and consequent massiveness, of the molecules,
increases. In the first place, we have the fact that during the formation of simple compounds
the heat evolved is much greater than that which is evolved during the formation of complex
compounds: the elements, when uniting with one another, usually give out much heat; while,
when the compounds they form are recompounded, but little heat is given out; and, as shown
by the experiments of Prof. Andrews, the heat given out during the union of acids and bases
is habitually smaller where the molecular weight of the base is greater. Then, in the second
place, we see that among the elements themselves, the unions of those having low molecular
weights result in far more heat than do the unions of those having high molecular weights.
If we proceed on the supposition that the so-called elements are compounds, and if this law,
if not universal, holds of undecomposable substances as of decomposable, then there are two
implications. The one is that those compoundings and recompoundings by which the elements were
formed, must have been accompanied by degrees of heat exceeding any degrees of heat known to
us. The other is that among these compoundings and recompoundings themselves, those by which
the small-moleculed elements were formed produced more intense heat than those by which the
large-moleculed elements were formed: the elements formed by the final recompoundings being
necessarily later in origin, and at the same time less stable, than the earlier-formed ones.

NOTE II. May we from these propositions, and especially from the last, draw any conclusions
respecting the evolution of heat during nebular condensation? And do such conclusions affect
in any way the conclusions now current?

In the first place, it seems inferable from physico-chemical facts at large, that only through
the instrumentality of those combinations which formed the elements, did the concentration
of diffused nebulous matter into concrete masses become possible. If we remember that hydrogen
and oxygen in their uncombined states oppose, the one an insuperable and the other an almost
insuperable, resistance to liquefaction, while when combined the compound assumes the liquid
state with facility, we may suspect that in like manner the simpler types of matter out of
which the elements were formed, could not have been reduced even to such degrees of density
as the known gases show us, without what we may call proto-chemical unions: the implication
being that after the heat resulting from each of such proto-chemical unions had escaped, mutual
gravitation of the parts was able to produce further condensation of the nebulous mass.

If we thus distinguish between the two sources of heat accompanying nebular condensation--the
heat due to proto-chemical combinations and that due to the contraction caused by gravitation
(both of them, however, being interpretable as consequent on loss of motion), it may be inferred
that they take different shares during the earlier and during the later stages of aggregation.
It seems probable that while the diffusion is great and the force of mutual gravitation small,
the chief source of heat is combination of units of matter, simpler than any known to us, into
such units of matter as those we know; while, conversely, when there has been reached close
aggregation, the chief source of heat is gravitation, with consequent pressure and gradual
contraction. Supposing this to be so, let us ask what may be inferred. If at the time when
the nebulous spheroid from which the Solar System resulted, filled the orbit of Neptune, it
had reached such a degree of density as enabled those units of matter which compose the sodium
molecules to enter into combination; and if, in conformity with the analogies above indicated,
the heat evolved by this proto-chemical combination was great compared with the heats evolved
by the chemical combinations known to us; the implication is that the nebulous spheroid, in
the course of its contraction, would have to get rid of a much larger quantity of heat than
it would, did it commence at any ordinary temperature and had only to lose the heat consequent
on contraction. That is to say, in estimating the past period during which solar emission of
heat has been going on at a high rate, much must depend on the initial temperature assumed;
and this may have been rendered intense by the proto-chemical changes which took place in early
stages.[21]

Respecting the future duration of the solar heat, there must also be differences between the
estimates made according as we do or do not take into account the proto-chemical changes which
possibly have still to take place. True as it may be that the quantity of heat to be emitted
is measured by the quantity of motion to be lost, and that this must be the same whether the
approximation of the molecules is effected by chemical unions, or by mutual gravitation, or
by both; yet, evidently, everything must turn on the degree of condensation supposed to be
eventually reached; and this must in large measure depend on the natures of the substances
eventually formed. Though, by spectrum-analysis, platinum has recently been detected in the
solar atmosphere, it seems clear that the metals of low molecular weights greatly predominate;
and supposing the foregoing arguments to be valid, it may be inferred, as not improbable, that
the compoundings and recompoundings by which the heavy-moleculed elements are produced, not
hitherto possible in large measure, will hereafter take place; and that, as a result, the Sun's
density will finally become very great in comparison with what it is now. I say "not hitherto
possible in large measure", because it is a feasible supposition that they may be formed, and
can continue to exist, only in certain outer parts of the Solar mass, where the pressure is
sufficiently great while the heat is not too great. And if this be so, the implication is that
the interior body of the Sun, higher in temperature than its peripheral layers, may consist
wholly of the metals of low atomic weights, and that this may be a part cause of his low specific
gravity; and a further implication is that when, in course of time, the internal temperature
falls, the heavy-moleculed elements, as they severally become capable of existing in it, may
arise: the formation of each having an evolution of heat as its concomitant.[22] If so, it
would seem to follow that the amount of heat to be emitted by the Sun, and the length of the
period during which the emission will go on, must be taken as much greater than if the Sun
is supposed to be permanently constituted of the elements now predominating in him, and to
be capable of only that degree of condensation which such composition permits.

NOTE III. Are the internal structures of celestial bodies all the same, or do they differ?
And if they differ, can we, from the process of nebular condensation, infer the conditions
under which they assume one or other character? In the foregoing essay as originally published,
these questions were discussed; and though the conclusions reached cannot be sustained in the
form given to them, they foreshadow conclusions which may, perhaps, be sustained. Referring
to the conceivable causes of unlike specific gravities in the members of the solar system,
it was said that these might be--

     "1. Differences between the kinds of matter or matters composing
     them. 2. Differences between the quantities of matter; for, other
     things equal, the mutual gravitation of atoms will make a large
     mass denser than a small one. 3. Differences between the
     structures: the masses being either solid or liquid throughout, or
     having central cavities filled with elastic aëriform substance. Of
     these three conceivable causes, that commonly assigned is the
     first, more or less modified by the second."

Written as this was before spectrum-analysis had made its disclosures, no notice could of course
be taken of the way in which these conflict with the first of the foregoing suppositions; but
after pointing out other objections to it the argument continued thus:--

     "However, spite of these difficulties, the current hypothesis is,
     that the Sun and planets, inclusive of the Earth, are either solid
     or liquid, or have solid crusts with liquid nuclei."[23]

After saying that the familiarity of this hypothesis must not delude us into uncritical acceptance
of it, but that if any other hypothesis is physically possible it may reasonably be entertained,
it was argued that by tracing out the process of condensation in a nebulous spheroid, we are
led to infer the eventual formation of a molten shell with a nucleus consisting of gaseous
matter at high tension. The paragraph which then follows runs thus:--

     "But what," it may be asked, "will become of this gaseous nucleus
     when exposed to the enormous gravitative pressure of a shell some
     thousands of miles thick? How can aeriform matter withstand such a
     pressure?" Very readily. It has been proved that, even when the
     heat generated by compression is allowed to escape, some gases
     remain uncondensible by any force we can produce. An unsuccessful
     attempt lately made in Vienna to liquify oxygen, clearly shows this
     enormous resistance. The steel piston employed was literally
     shortened by the pressure used; and yet the gas remained
     unliquified! If, then, the expansive force is thus immense when the
     heat evolved is dissipated, what must it be when that heat is in
     great measure detained, as in the case we are considering? Indeed
     the experiences of M. Cagniard de Latour have shown that gases may,
     under pressure, acquire the density of liquids while retaining the
     aeriform state, provided the temperature continues extremely high.
     In such a case, every addition to the heat is an addition to the
     repulsive power of the atoms: the increased pressure itself
     generates an increased ability to resist; and this remains true to
     whatever extent the compression is carried. Indeed it is a
     corollary from the persistence of force that if, under increasing
     pressure, a gas retains all the heat evolved, its resisting force
     is absolutely unlimited. Hence the internal planetary structure
     we have described is as physically stable a one as that commonly
     assumed."

Had this paragraph, and the subsequent paragraphs, been written five years later, when Prof.
Andrews had published an account of his researches, the propositions they contain, while rendered
more specific and at the same time more defensible, would perhaps have been freed from the
erroneous implication that the internal structure indicated is an universal one. Let us, while
guided by Prof. Andrews' results, consider what would probably be the successive changes in
a condensing nebulous spheroid.

Prof. Andrews has shown that for each kind of gaseous matter there is a temperature above which
no amount of pressure can cause liquefaction. At the same time Prof. Andrews' experiments imply
that, supposing the temperature to be lowered to the point at which liquefaction becomes possible,
then liquefaction will take place where there is first reached the required pressure. What
are the corollaries in relation to concentrating nebulous spheroids?

Assume a spheroid of such size as will form one of the inferior planets, and consisting externally
of a voluminous, cloudy atmosphere composed of the less condensible elements, and internally
of metallic gases: such internal gases being kept by convection-currents at temperatures not
very widely differing. And assume that continuous radiation has brought the internal mass of
metallic gases down to the critical point of the most condensible. May we not say that there
is a size of the spheroid such that the pressure will not be great enough to produce liquefaction
at any other place than the centre? or, in other words, that in the process of decreasing temperature
and increasing pressure, the centre will be the place at which the combined conditions of pressure
and temperature will be first reached? If so, liquefaction, commencing at the centre, will
spread thence to the periphery; and, in virtue of the law that solids have higher melting points
under pressure than when free, it may be that solidification will similarly, at a later stage,
begin at the centre and progress outwards: eventually producing, in that case, a state such
as Sir William Thomson alleges exists in the Earth. But now suppose that instead of such a
spheroid, we assume one of, say, twenty or thirty times the mass; what will then happen? Notwithstanding
convection-currents, the temperature at the centre must always be higher than elsewhere; and
in the process of cooling the "critical point" of temperature will sooner be reached in the
outer parts. Though the requisite pressure will not exist near the surface, there is evidently,
in a large spheroid, a depth below the surface at which the pressure will be great enough,
if the temperature is sufficiently low. Hence it is inferable that somewhere between centre
and surface in the supposed larger spheroid, there will arise that state described by Prof.
Andrews, in which "flickering striæ" of liquid float in gaseous matter of equal density. And
it may be inferred that gradually, as the process goes on, these striæ will become more abundant
while the gaseous interspaces diminish; until, eventually, the liquid becomes continuous. Thus
there will result a molten shell containing a gaseous nucleus equally dense with itself at
their surface of contact and more dense at the centre--a molten shell which will slowly thicken
by additions to both exterior and interior.

That a solid crust will eventually form on this molten shell may be reasonably concluded. To
the demurrer that solidification cannot commence at the surface, because the solids formed
would sink, there are two replies. The first is that various metals expand while solidifying,
and therefore would float. The second is that since the envelope of the supposed spheroid would
consist of the gases and non-metallic elements, compounds of these with the metals and with
one another would continually accumulate on the molten shell; and the crust, consisting of
oxides, chlorides, sulphurets, and the rest, having much less specific gravity than the molten
shell, would be readily supported by it.

Clearly a planet thus constituted would be in an unstable state. Always it would remain liable
to a catastrophe resulting from change in its gaseous nucleus. If, under some condition of
pressure and temperature eventually reached, the components of this suddenly entered into one
of those proto-chemical combinations forming a new element, there might result an explosion
capable of shattering the entire planet, and propelling its fragments in all directions with
high velocities. If the hypothetical planet between Jupiter and Mars was intermediate in size
as in position, it would apparently fulfil the conditions under which such a catastrophe might
occur.

NOTE IV. The argument set forth in the foregoing note, is in part designed to introduce a question
which seems to require re-consideration--the origin of the minor planets or planetoids. The
hypothesis of Olbers, as propounded by him, implied that the disruption of the assumed planet
between Mars and Jupiter had taken place at no very remote period in the past; and this implication
was shown to be inadmissible by the discovery that there exists no such point of intersection
of the orbits of the planetoids as the hypothesis requires. The inquiry whether, in the past,
there was any nearer approach to a point of intersection than at present, having resulted in
a negative, it is held that the hypothesis must be abandoned. It is, however, admitted that
the mutual perturbations of the planetoids themselves would suffice, in the course of some
millions of years, to destroy all traces of a place of intersection of their orbits, if it
once existed. But if this be admitted why need the hypothesis be abandoned? Given such duration
of the Solar System as is currently assumed, there seems no reason why lapse of a few millions
of years should present any difficulty. The explosion may as well have taken place ten million
years ago as at any more recent period. And whoever grants this must grant that the probability
of the hypothesis has to be estimated from other data.

As a preliminary to closer consideration, let us ask what may be inferred from the rate of
discovery of the planetoids, and from the sizes of those most recently discovered. In 1878,
Prof. Newcomb, arguing that "the preponderance of evidence is on the side of the number and
magnitude being limited", says that "the newly discovered ones" "do not seem, on the average,
to be materially smaller than those which were discovered ten years ago"; and further that
"the new ones will probably be found to grow decidedly rare before another hundred are discovered".
Now, inspection of the tables contained in the just-published fourth edition of Chambers' Descriptive
Astronomy (vol. I) shows that whereas the planetoids discovered in 1868 (the year Prof. Newcomb
singles out for comparison) have an average magnitude of 11·56 those discovered last year (1888)
have an average magnitude of 12·43. Further, it is observable that though more than ninety
have been discovered since Prof. Newcomb wrote, they have by no means become rare: the year
1888 having added ten to the list, and having therefore maintained the average rate of the
preceding ten years. If, then, the indications Prof. Newcomb names, had they arisen, would
have implied a limitation of the number, these opposite indications imply that the number is
unlimited. The reasonable conclusion appears to be that these minor planets are to be counted
not by hundreds but by thousands; that more powerful telescopes will go on revealing still
smaller ones; and that additions to the list will cease only when the smallness ends in invisibility.

Commencing now to scrutinize the two hypotheses respecting the genesis of these multitudinous
bodies, I may first remark concerning that of Laplace, that he might possibly not have propounded
it had he known that instead of four such bodies there are hundreds, if not thousands. The
supposition that they resulted from the breaking up of a nebulous ring into numerous small
portions, instead of its collapse into one mass, might not, in such case, have seemed to him
so probable. It would have appeared still less probable had he been aware of all that has since
been discovered concerning the wide differences of the orbits in size, their various and often
great eccentricities, and their various and often great inclinations. Let us look at these
and other incongruous traits of them.

(1.) Between the greatest and least mean distances of the planetoids there is a space of 200
millions of miles; so that the whole of the Earth's orbit might be placed between the limits
of the zone occupied, and leave 7 millions of miles on either side: add to which that the widest
excursions of the planetoids occupy a zone of 270 millions of miles. Had the rings from which
Mercury, Venus, and the Earth were formed been one-sixth of the smaller width or one-ninth
of the greater, they would have united: there would have been no nebulous rings at all, but
a continuous disk. Nay more, since one of the planetoids trenches upon the orbit of Mars, it
follows that the nebulous ring out of which the planetoids were formed must have overlapped
that out of which Mars was formed. How do these implications consist with the nebular hypothesis?
(2.) The tacit assumption usually made is that the different parts of a nebulous ring have
the same angular velocities. Though this assumption may not be strictly true, yet it seems
scarcely likely that it is so widely untrue as it would be had the inner part of the ring an
angular velocity nearly thrice that of the outer. Yet this is implied. While the period of
Thule is 8.8 years, the period of Medusa is 3·1 years. (3.) The eccentricity of Jupiter's orbit
is 0·04816, and the eccentricity of Mars' orbit is 0·09311. Estimated by groups of the first
found and last found of the planetoids, the average eccentricity of the assemblage is about
three times that of Jupiter and more than one and a half times that of Mars; and among the
members of the assemblage themselves, some have an eccentricity thirty-five times that of others.
How came this nebulous zone, out of which it is supposed the planetoids arose, to have originated
eccentricities so divergent from one another as well as from those of the neighbouring planets?
(4.) A like question may be asked respecting the inclinations of the orbits. The average inclination
of the planetoid-orbits is four times the inclination of Mars' orbit and six times the inclination
of Jupiter's orbit; and among the planetoid-orbits themselves the inclinations of some are
fifty times those of others. How are all these differences to be accounted for on the hypothesis
of genesis from a nebulous ring? (5.) Much greater becomes the difficulty on inquiring how
these extremely unlike eccentricities and inclinations came to co-exist before the parts of
the nebulous ring separated, and how they survived after the separation. Were all the great
eccentricities displayed by the outermost members of the group, and the small by the innermost
members, and were the inclinations so distributed that the orbits having much belonged to one
part of the group, and those having little to another part of the group; the difficulty of
explanation might not be insuperable. But the arrangement is by no means this. The orbits are,
to use an expressive word, miscellaneously jumbled. Hence, if we go back to the nebulous ring,
there presents itself the question,--How came each planetoid-forming portion of nebulous matter,
when it gathered itself together and separated, to have a motion round the Sun differing so
much from the motions of its neighbours in eccentricity and inclination? And there presents
itself the further question,--How, during the time when it was concentrating into a planetoid,
did it manage to jostle its way through all the differently-moving like masses of nebulous
matter, and yet to preserve its individuality? Answers to these questions are, it seems to
me, not even imaginable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turn we now to the alternative hypothesis. During revision of the foregoing essay, in preparation
for that edition of the volume containing it which was published in 1883, there occurred the
thought that some light on the origin of the planetoids ought to be obtained by study of their
distributions and movements. If, as Olbers supposed, they resulted from the bursting of a planet
once revolving in the region they occupy, the implications are:--first, that the fragments
must be most abundant in the space immediately about the original orbit, and less abundant
far away from it; second, that the large fragments must be relatively few, while of smaller
fragments the numbers will increase as the sizes decrease; third, that as some among the smaller
fragments will be propelled further than any of the larger, the widest deviations in mean distance
from the mean distance of the original planet, will be presented by the smallest members of
the assemblage; and fourth, that the orbits differing most from the rest in eccentricity and
in inclination, will be among those of these smallest members. In the fourth edition of Chambers's
Handbook of Descriptive and Practical Astronomy (the first volume of which has just been issued)
there is a list of the elements (extracted and adapted from the Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch
for 1890) of all the small planets (281 in number) which had been discovered up to the end
of 1888. The apparent brightness, as expressed in equivalent star-magnitudes, is the only index
we have to the probable comparative sizes of by far the largest number of the planetoids: the
exceptions being among those first discovered. Thus much premised, let us take the above points
in order. (1) There is a region lying between 2·50 and 2·80 (in terms of the Earth's mean distance
from the Sun) where the planetoids are found in maximum abundance. The mean between these extremes,
2·65, is nearly the same as the average of the distances of the four largest and earliest-known
of these bodies, which amounts to 2·64. May we not say that the thick clustering about this
distance (which is, however, rather less than that assigned for the original planet by Bode's
empirical law), in contrast with the wide scattering of the comparatively few whose distances
are little more than 2 or exceed 3, is a fact in accordance with the hypothesis in question?[24]
(2) Any table which gives the apparent magnitudes of the planetoids, shows at once how much
the number of the smaller members of the assemblage exceeds that of those which are comparatively
large; and every succeeding year has emphasized this contrast more strongly. Only one of them
(Vesta) exceeds in brightness the seventh star-magnitude, while one other (Ceres) is between
the seventh and eighth, and a third (Pallas) is above the eighth; but between the eighth and
ninth there are six; between the ninth and tenth, twenty; between the tenth and eleventh, fifty-five;
below the eleventh a much larger number is known, and the number existing is probably far greater,--a
conclusion we cannot doubt when the difficulty of finding the very faint members of the family,
visible only in the largest telescopes, is considered. (3) Kindred evidence is furnished if
we broadly contrast their mean distances. Out of the 13 largest planetoids whose apparent brightnesses
exceed that of a star of the 9·5 magnitude, there is not one having a mean distance that exceeds
3. Of those having magnitudes at least 9·5 and smaller than 10, there are 15; and of these
one only has a mean distance greater than 3. Of those between 10 and 10·5 there are 17; and
of these also there is one exceeding 3 in mean distance. In the next group there are 37, and
of these 5 have this great mean distance. The next group, 48, contains 12 such; the next, 47,
contains 13 such. Of those of the twelfth magnitude and fainter, 72 planetoids have been discovered,
and of those of them of which the orbits have been computed, no fewer than 23 have a mean distance
exceeding 3 in terms of the Earth's. It is evident from this how comparatively erratic are
the fainter members of the extensive family with which we are dealing. (4) To illustrate the
next point, it may be noted that among the planetoids whose sizes have been approximately measured,
the orbits of the two largest, Vesta and Ceres, have eccentricities falling between .05 and
.10, whilst the orbits of the two smallest, Menippe and Eva, have eccentricities falling between
.20 and .25, and between .30 and .35. And then among those more recently discovered, having
diameters so small that measurement of them has not been practicable, come the extremely erratic
ones,--Hilda and Thule, which have mean distances of 3.97 and 4.25 respectively; Æthra, having
an orbit so eccentric that it cuts the orbit of Mars; and Medusa, which has the smallest mean
distance from the Sun of any. (5) If the average eccentricities of the orbits of the planetoids
grouped according to their decreasing sizes are compared, no very definite results are disclosed,
excepting this, that the eight Polyhymnia, Atalanta, Eurydice, Æthra, Eva, Andromache, Istria,
and Eudora, which have the greatest eccentricities (falling between .30 and .38), are all among
those of smallest star-magnitudes. Nor when we consider the inclinations of the orbits do we
meet with obvious verifications; since the proportion of highly-inclined orbits among the smaller
planetoids does not appear to be greater than among the others. But consideration shows that
there are two ways in which these last comparisons are vitiated. One is that the inclinations
are measured from the plane of the ecliptic, instead of being measured from the plane of the
orbit of the hypothetical planet. The other, and more important one, is that the search for
planetoids has naturally been carried on in that comparatively narrow zone within which most
of their orbits fall; and that, consequently, those having the most highly-inclined orbits
are the least likely to have been detected, especially if they are at the same time among the
smallest. Moreover, considering the general relation between the inclination of planetoid orbits
and their eccentricities, it is probable that among the orbits of these undetected planetoids
are many of the most eccentric. But while recognizing the incompleteness of the evidence, it
seems to me that it goes far to justify the hypothesis of Olbers, and is quite incongruous
with that of Laplace. And as having the same meanings let me not omit the remarkable fact concerning
the planetoids discovered by D'Arrest, that "if their orbits are figured under the form of
material rings, these rings will be found so entangled, that it would be possible, by means
of one among them taken at hazard, to lift up all the rest,"--a fact incongruous with Laplace's
hypothesis, which implies an approximate concentricity, but quite congruous with the hypothesis
of an exploded planet.

Next to be considered come phenomena, the bearings of which on the question before us are scarcely
considered--I mean those presented by meteors and shooting stars. The natures and distributions
of these harmonize with the hypothesis of an exploded planet, and I think with no other hypothesis.
The theory of volcanic origin, joined with the remark that the Sun emits jets which might propel
them with adequate velocities, seems quite untenable. Such meteoric bodies as have descended
to us, forbid absolutely the supposition of solar origin. Nor can they rationally be ascribed
to planetary volcanoes. Even were their mineral characters appropriate, which many of them
are not (for volcanoes do not eject iron), no planetary volcanoes could propel them with anything
like the implied velocity--could no more withstand the tremendous force to be assumed, than
could a card-board gun the force behind a rifle bullet. But that their mineral characters,
various as they are, harmonize with the supposition that they were derived from the crust of
a planet is manifest; and that the bursting of a planet might give to them, and to shooting
stars, the needful velocities, is a reasonable conclusion. Along with those larger fragments
of the crust constituting the known planetoids, varying from some 200 miles in diameter to
little over a dozen, there would be sent out still more multitudinous portions of the crust,
decreasing in size as they increased in number. And while there would thus result such masses
as occasionally fall through the Earth's atmosphere to its surface, there would, in an accompanying
process, be an adequate cause for the myriads of far smaller masses which, as shooting stars,
are dissipated in passing through the Earth's atmosphere. Let us figure to ourselves, as well
as we may, the process of explosion.

Assume that the diameter of the missing planet was 20,000 miles; that its solid crust was a
thousand miles thick; that under this came a shell of molten metallic matter which was another
thousand miles thick; and that the space, 16,000 miles in diameter, within this, was occupied
by the equally dense mass of gases above the "critical point", which, entering into a proto-chemical
combination, caused the destroying explosion. The primary fissures in the crust must have been
far apart--probably averaging distances between them as great as the thickness of the crust.
Supposing them approximately equidistant, there would, in the equatorial periphery, be between
60 and 70 fissures. By the time the primary fragments thus separated had been heaved a mile
outwards, the fissures formed would severally have, at the surface, a width of 170 odd yards.
Of course these great masses, as soon as they moved, would themselves begin to fall in pieces;
especially at their bounding surfaces. But passing over the resulting complications, we see
that when the masses had been propelled 10 miles outwards, the fissures between them would
be each a mile wide. Notwithstanding the enormous forces at work, an appreciable interval would
elapse before these vast portions of the crust could be put in motion with any considerable
velocities. Perhaps the estimate will be under the mark if we assume that it took 10 seconds
to propel them through the first mile, and that, by implication, at the end of 20 seconds they
had travelled 4 miles, and at the end of 30 seconds 9 miles. Supposing this granted, let us
ask what would be taking place in each intervening fissure a thousand miles deep, which, in
the space of half a minute, had opened out to nearly a mile wide, and in the subsequent half
minute to a chasm approaching 3 miles in width. There would first be propelled through it enormous
jets of the molten metals composing the internal liquid shell; and these would part into relatively
small masses as they were shot into space. Presently, as the chasm opened to some miles in
width, the molten metals would begin to be followed by the equally dense gaseous matter behind,
and the two would rush out together. Soon the gases, predominating, would carry with them the
portions of the liquid shell continually collapsing; until the blast became one filled with
millions of small masses, billions of smaller masses, and trillions of drops. These would be
driven into space in a stream, the emission of which would continue for many seconds or even
several minutes. Remembering the rate of motion of the jets emitted from the solar surface,
and supposing that the blasts produced by this explosion reached only one-tenth of that rate,
these myriads of small masses and drops would be propelled with planetary velocities, and in
approximately the same direction. I say approximately, because they would be made to deviate
somewhat by the friction and irregularities of the chasm passed through, and also by the rotation
of the planet. Observe, however, that though they would all have immense velocities, their
velocities would not be equal. During its earlier stages the blast would be considerably retarded
by the resistance which the sides of its channel offered. When this became relatively small
the velocity of the blast would reach its maximum; from which it would decline when the space
for emission became very wide, and the pressure behind consequently less. Hence these almost
infinitely numerous particles of planet-spray, as we might call it, as well as those formed
by the condensation of the metallic vapours accompanying them, would forthwith begin to part
company: some going rapidly in advance, and others falling behind; until the stream of them,
perpetually elongating, formed an orbit round the Sun, or rather an assemblage of innumerable
orbits, separating widely at aphelion and perihelion, but approximating midway, where they
might fall within a space of, say, some two millions of miles, as do the orbits of the November
meteors. At a later stage of the explosion, when the large masses, having moved far outwards,
had also fallen to pieces of every size, from that of Vesta to that of an aerolite, and when
the channels just described had ceased to exist, the contents of the planet would disperse
themselves with lower velocities and without any unity of direction. Hence we see causes alike
for the streams of shooting stars, for the solitary shooting stars visible to the naked eye,
and for the telescopic shooting stars a score times more numerous.

Further significant evidence is furnished by the comets of short periods. Of the thirteen constituting
this group, twelve have orbits falling between those of Mars and Jupiter: one only having its
aphelion beyond the orbit of Jupiter. That is to say, nearly all of them frequent the same
region as the planetoids. By implication, they are similarly associated in respect of their
periods. The periods of the planetoids range from 3.1 to 8.8 years; and all these twelve comets
have periods falling between these extremes: the least being 3.29 and the greatest 8.86. Once
more this family of comets, like the planetoids in the zone they occupy and like them in their
periods, are like them also in the respect that, as Mr. Lynn has pointed out, their motions
are all direct. How happens this close kinship--how happens there to be this family of comets
so much like the planetoids and so much like one another, but so unlike comets at large? The
obvious suggestion is that they are among the products of the explosion which originated the
planetoids, the aerolites, and the streams of meteors; and consideration of the probable circumstances
shows us that such products might be expected. If the hypothetical planet was like its neighbour
Jupiter in having an atmosphere, or like its neighbour Mars in having water on its surface,
or like both in these respects; then these superficial masses of liquid, of vapour, and of
gas, blown into space along with the solid matters, would yield the materials for comets. There
would result, too, comets unlike one another in constitution. If a fissure opened beneath one
of the seas, the molten metals and metallic gases rushing through it as above described, would
decompose part of the water carried with them; and the oxygen and hydrogen liberated would
be mingled with undecomposed vapour. In other cases, portions of the atmosphere might be propelled,
probably with portions of vapour; and in yet other cases masses of water alone. Severally subject
to great heat at perihelion, these would behave more or less differently. Once more, it would
ordinarily happen that detached swarms of meteors projected as implied, would carry with them
masses of vapours and gases; whence would result the cometic constitution now insisted on.
And sometimes there would be like accompaniments to meteoric streams.

See, then, the contrast between the two hypotheses. That of Laplace, looking probable while
there were only four planetoids, but decreasing in apparent likelihood as the planetoids increase
in number, until, as they pass through the hundreds on their way to the thousands, it becomes
obviously improbable, is, at the same time, otherwise objectionable. It pre-supposes a nebulous
ring of a width so enormous that it would have overlapped the ring of Mars. This ring would
have had differences between the angular velocities of its parts quite inconsistent with the
Nebular Hypothesis. The average eccentricities of the orbits of its parts must have differed
greatly from those of adjacent orbits; and the average inclinations of the orbits of its parts
must similarly have differed greatly from those of adjacent orbits. Once more, the orbits of
its parts, confusedly interspersed, must have had varieties of eccentricity and inclination
unaccountable in portions of the same nebulous ring; and, during concentration into planetoids,
each must have had to maintain its course while struggling through the assemblage of other
small nebulous masses, severally moving in ways unlike its own. On the other hand, the hypothesis
of an exploded planet is supported by every increase in the number of planetoids discovered;
by the greater numbers of the smaller sizes; by the thicker clustering near the inferred place
of the missing planet; by the occurrence of the greatest mean distances among the smallest
members of the assemblage; by the occurrence of the greatest eccentricities in the orbits of
these smallest members; and by the entanglement of all the orbits. Further support for the
hypothesis is yielded by aerolites, so various in their kinds, but all suggestive of a planet's
crust; by the streams of shooting stars having their radiant points variously placed in the
heavens; and also by the solitary shooting stars visible to the naked eye, and the more numerous
ones visible through telescopes. Once more, it harmonizes with the discovery of a family of
comets, twelve out of thirteen of which have mean distances falling within the zone of the
planetoids, have similarly associated periods, have all the same direct motions, and are connected
with swarms of meteors and with meteoric streams. May we not, indeed, say, that if there once
existed a planet between Mars and Jupiter which burst, the explosion must have produced just
such clusters of bodies and classes of phenomena as we actually find?

And what is the objection? Merely that if such an explosion occurred it must have occurred
many millions of years ago--an objection which is in fact no objection; for the supposition
that the explosion occurred many millions of years ago is just as reasonable as the supposition
that it occurred recently.

It is, indeed, further objected that some of the resulting fragments ought to have retrograde
motions. It turns out on calculation, however, that this is not the case. Assuming as true
the velocity which Lagrange estimated would have sufficed to give the four chief planetoids
the positions they occupy, it results that such a velocity, given to the fragments which were
propelled backwards by the explosion, would not have given them retrograde motions, but would
simply have reduced their direct motions from something over 11 miles per second to about 6
miles per second. It is, however, manifest that this reduction of velocity would have necessitated
the formation of highly-elliptic orbits--more elliptic than any of those at present known.
This seems to me the most serious difficulty which has presented itself. Still, considering
that there remain probably an immense number of planetoids to be discovered, it is quite possible
that among these there may be some having orbits answering to the requirement.

NOTE V. Shortly before I commenced the revision of the foregoing essay, friends on two occasions
named to me some remarkable photographs of nebulæ recently obtained by Mr. Isaac Roberts, and
exhibited at the Royal Astronomical Society: saying that they presented appearances such as
might have been sketched by Laplace in illustration of his hypothesis. Mr. Roberts has been
kind enough to send me copies of the photographs in question and sundry others illustrative
of stellar evolution. Those representing the Great Nebulæ in Andromeda and Canum Venaticorum
as well as 81 Messier are at once impressive and instructive--illustrating as they do the genesis
of nebulous rings round a central mass.

I may remark, however, that they seem to suggest the need for some modification of the current
conception; since they make it tolerably clear that the process is a much less uniform one
than is supposed. The usual idea is that a vast rotating nebulous spheroid arises before there
are produced any of the planet-forming rings. But both of these photographs apparently imply
that, in some cases at any rate, the portions of nebulous matter composing the rings take shape
before they reach the central mass. It looks as though these partially-formed annuli must be
prevented by their acquired motions from approaching even very near to the still-irregular
body they surround.

Be this as it may, however, and be the dimensions of the incipient systems what they may (and
it would seem to be a necessary implication that they are vastly larger than our Solar System),
the process remains essentially the same. Practically demonstrated as this process now is,
we may say that the doctrine of nebular genesis passes from the region of hypothesis into the
region of established truth.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 21: Of course there remains the question whether, before the stage here recognized,
there had already been produced a high temperature by those collisions of celestial masses
which reduced the matter to a nebulous form. As suggested in First Principles (§ 136 in the
edition of 1862, and § 182 in subsequent editions), there must, after there have been effected
all those minor dissolutions which follow evolutions, remain to be effected the dissolutions
of the great bodies in and on which the minor evolutions and dissolutions have taken place;
and it was argued that such dissolutions will be, at some time or other, effected by those
immense transformations of molar motion into molecular motion, consequent on collisions: the
argument being based on the statement of Sir John Herschel, that in clusters of stars collisions
must inevitably occur. It may, however, be objected that though such a result may be reasonably
looked for in closely aggregated assemblages of stars, it is difficult to conceive of its taking
place throughout our Sidereal System at large, the members of which, and their intervals, may
be roughly figured as pins-heads 50 miles apart. It would seem that something like an eternity
must elapse before, by ethereal resistance or other cause, these can be brought into proximity
great enough to make collisions probable.]

[Footnote 22: The two sentences which, in the text, precede the asterisk, I have introduced
while these pages are standing in type: being led to do so by the perusal of some notes kindly
lent to me by Prof. Dewar, containing the outline of a lecture he gave at the Royal Institution
during the session of 1880. Discussing the conditions under which, if "our so-called elements
are compounded of elemental matter", they may have been formed, Prof. Dewar, arguing from the
known habitudes of compound substances, concludes that the formation is in each case a function
of pressure, temperature, and nature of the environing gases.]

[Footnote 23: At the date of this passage the established teleology made it seem needful to
assume that all the planets are habitable, and that even beneath the photosphere of the Sun
there exists a dark body which may be the scene of life; but since then, the influence of teleology
has so far diminished that this hypothesis can no longer be called the current one.]

[Footnote 24: It may here be mentioned (though the principal significance of this comes under
the next head) that the average mean distance of the later-discovered planetoids is somewhat
greater than that of these earlier-discovered; amounting to 2·61 for Nos. 1 to 35 and 2·80
for Nos. 211 to 245. For this observation I am indebted to Mr. Lynn; whose attention was drawn
to it while revising for me the statements contained in this paragraph, so as to include discoveries
made since the paragraph was written.]

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE SUN.

    [First published in The Reader for February 25, 1865. I
    reproduce this essay chiefly to give a place to the speculation
    concerning the solar spots which forms the latter portion of it.]

The hypothesis of M. Faye, described in your numbers for January 28 and February 4, respectively,
is to a considerable extent coincident with one which I ventured to suggest in an article on
"Recent Astronomy and the Nebular Hypothesis," published in the Westminster Review for July,
1858. In considering the possible causes of the immense differences of specific gravity among
the planets, I was led to question the validity of the tacit assumption that each planet consists
of solid or liquid matter from centre to surface. It seemed to me that any other internal structure
which was mechanically stable, might be assumed with equal legitimacy. And the hypothesis of
a solid or liquid shell, having its cavity filled with gaseous matter at high pressure and
temperature [and of great density], was one which seemed worth considering.

Hence arose the inquiry--What structure will result from the process of nebular condensation?
[Here followed a long speculation respecting the processes going on in a concentrating nebulous
spheroid; the general outcome of which is implied in Note III of the foregoing essay. I do
not reproduce it because, not having the guidance of Prof. Andrew's researches, I had concluded
that the formation of a molten shell would occur universally, instead of occasionally, as is
now argued in the note named. The essay then proceeded thus:--]

The process of condensation being in its essentials the same for all concentrating nebular
spheroids, planetary or solar, it was argued that the Sun is still passing through that incandescent
stage which all the planets have long ago passed through: his later aggregation, joined with
the immensely greater ratio of his mass to his surface, involving comparative lateness of cooling.
Supposing the sun to have reached the state of a molten shell, inclosing a gaseous nucleus,
it was concluded that this molten shell, ever radiating its heat, but ever acquiring fresh
heat by further integration of the Sun's mass, must be constantly kept up to that temperature
at which its substance evaporates.

[Here followed part of the paragraph quoted in the preceding essay on p. 155; and there succeeded,
in subsequent editions, a paragraph aiming to show that the inferred structure of the Sun's
interior was congruous with the low specific gravity of the Sun--a conclusion which, as indicated
on p. 156, implies some very problematical assumptions respecting the natures of the unknown
elements of the Sun. There then came this passage:--]

The conception of the Sun's constitution thus set forth, is like that of M. Faye in so far
as the successive changes, the resulting structures, and the ultimate state, are concerned;
but unlike it in so far as the Sun is supposed to have reached a later stage of concentration.
As I gather from your abstract of M. Faye's paper [this referred to an article in The Reader],
he considers the Sun to be at present a gaseous spheroid, having an envelope of metallic matters
precipitated in the shape of luminous clouds, the local dispersions of which, caused by currents
from within, appear to us as spots; and he looks forward to the future formation of a liquid
film as an event that will soon be followed by extinction. Whereas the above hypothesis is
that the liquid film already exists beneath the visible photosphere, and that extinction cannot
result until, in the course of further aggregation, the gaseous nucleus has become so much
reduced, and the shell so much thickened, that the escape of the heat generated is greatly
retarded.... M. Faye's hypothesis appears to be espoused by him, partly because it affords
an explanation of the spots, which are considered as openings in the photosphere, exposing
the comparatively non-luminous gases filling the interior. But if these interior gases are
non-luminous from the absence of precipitated matter, must they not for the same reason be
transparent? And if transparent, will not the light from the remote side of the photosphere
seen through them, be nearly as bright as that of the side next to us? By as much as the intensely-heated
gases of the interior are disabled by the dissociation of their molecules from giving off luminiferous
undulations, by so much must they be disabled from absorbing the light transmitted through
them. And if their great light-transmitting power is exactly complementary to their small light-emitting
power, there seems no reason why the interior of the Sun, disclosed to us by openings in the
photosphere, should not appear as bright as its exterior.

Take, on the other hand, the supposition that a more advanced state of concentration has been
reached. A shell of molten metallic matter enclosing a gaseous nucleus still higher in temperature
than itself, will be continually kept at the highest temperature consistent with its state
of liquid aggregation. Unless we assume that simple radiation suffices to give off all the
heat generated by progressing integration, we must conclude that the mass will be raised to
that temperature at which part of its heat is absorbed in vaporizing its superficial parts.
The atmosphere of metallic gases hence resulting, cannot continue to accumulate without reaching
a height above the Sun's surface, at which the cooling due to radiation and rarefaction will
cause condensation into cloud--cannot, indeed, cease accumulating until the precipitation from
the upper limit of the atmosphere balances the evaporation from its lower limit. This upper
limit of the atmosphere of metallic gases, whence precipitation is perpetually taking place,
will form the visible photosphere--partly giving off light of its own, partly letting through
the more brilliant light of the incandescent mass below. This conclusion harmonizes with the
appearances. Sir John Herschel, advocating though he does an antagonist hypothesis, gives a
description of the Sun's surface which agrees completely with the processes here supposed.
He says:--

     "There is nothing which represents so faithfully this appearance as
     the slow subsidence of some flocculent chemical precipitates in a
     transparent fluid, when viewed perpendicularly from above: so
     faithfully, indeed, that it is hardly possible not to be impressed
     with the idea of a luminous medium intermixed, but not confounded,
     with a transparent and non-luminous atmosphere, either floating as
     clouds in our air, or pervading it in vast sheets and columns like
     flame, or the streamers of our northern lights".--Treatise on
     Astronomy, p. 208.

If the constitution of the Sun be that which is above inferred, it does not seem difficult
to conceive still more specifically the production of these appearances. Everywhere throughout
the atmosphere of metallic vapours which clothes the solar surface, there must be ascending
and descending currents. The magnitude of these currents must obviously depend on the depth
of this atmosphere. If it is shallow, the currents must be small; but if many thousands of
miles deep, the currents may be wide enough to render visible to us the places at which they
severally impinge on the limit of the atmosphere, and the places whence the descending currents
commence. The top of an ascending current will be a space over which the thickness of condensed
cloud is the least, and through which the greatest amount of light from beneath penetrates.
The clouds perpetually formed at the top of such a current, will be perpetually thrust aside
by the uncondensed gases from below them; and, growing while they are thrust aside, will collect
in the spaces between the ascending currents, where there will result the greatest degree of
opacity. Hence the mottled appearance--hence the "pores," or dark interspaces, separating the
light-giving spots.[25]

Of the more special appearances which the photosphere presents, let us take first the faculæ.
These are ascribed to waves in the photosphere; and the way in which such waves might produce
an excess of light has been variously explained in conformity with various hypotheses. What
would result from them in a photosphere constituted and conditioned as above supposed? Traversing
a canopy of cloud, here thicker and there thinner, a wave would cause a disturbance very unlikely
to leave the thin and thick parts without any change in their average permeability to light.
There would probably be, at some parts of the wave, extensions in the areas of the light-transmitting
clouds, resulting in the passage of more rays from below. Another phenomenon, less common but
more striking, appears also to be in harmony with the hypothesis. I refer to those bright spots,
of a brilliancy greater than that of the photosphere, which are sometimes observed. In the
course of a physical process so vast and so active as that here supposed to be going on in
the Sun, we may expect that concurrent causes will occasionally produce ascending currents
much hotter than usual, or more voluminous, or both. One of these, on reaching the stratum
of luminous and illuminated cloud forming the photosphere, will burst through it, dispersing
and dissolving it, and ascending to a greater height before it begins itself to condense: meanwhile
allowing to be seen, through its transparent mass, the incandescent molten shell of the sun's body.

[The foregoing passages, to most of which I do not commit myself as more than possibilities,
I republish chiefly as introductory to the following speculation, which, since it was propounded
in 1865, has met with some acceptance.]

"But what of the spots commonly so called?" it will be asked. In the essay on the Nebular hypothesis,
above quoted from, it was suggested that refraction of the light passing through the depressed
centres of cyclones in this atmosphere of metallic gases, might possibly be the cause; but
this, though defensible as a "true cause," appeared on further consideration to be an inadequate
cause. Keeping the question in mind, however, and still taking as a postulate the conclusion
of Sir John Herschel, that the spots are in some way produced by cyclones, I was led, in the
course of the year following the publication of the essay, to an hypothesis which seemed more
satisfactory. This, which I named at the time to Prof. Tyndall, had a point in common with
the one afterward published by Prof. Kirchhoff, in so far as it supposed cloud to be the cause
of darkness; but differed in so far as it assigned the cause of such cloud. More pressing matters
prevented me from developing the idea for some time; and, afterwards, I was deterred from including
it in the revised edition of the essay, by its inconsistency with the "willow-leaf" doctrine,
at that time dominant. The reasoning was as follows:--The central region of a cyclone must
be a region of rarefaction, and, consequently, a region of refrigeration. In an atmosphere
of metallic gases rising from a molten surface, and presently reaching a limit at which condensation
takes place, the molecular state, especially toward its upper part, must be such that a moderate
diminution of density, and fall of temperature, will cause precipitation. That is to say, the
rarefied interior of a solar cyclone will be filled with cloud: condensation, instead of taking
place only at the level of the photosphere, will here extend to a great depth below it, and
over a wide area. What will be the characters of a cloud thus occupying the interior of a cyclone?
It will have a rotatory motion; and this it has been seen to have. Being funnel-shaped, as
analogy warrants us in assuming, its central parts will be much deeper than its peripheral
parts, and therefore more opaque. This, too, corresponds with observation. Mr. Dawes has discovered
that in the middle of the spot there is a blacker spot: just where there would exist a funnel-shaped
prolongation of the cyclonic cloud down toward the Sun's body, the darkness is greater than
elsewhere. Moreover, there is furnished an adequate reason for the depression which one of
these dark spaces exhibits. In a whirlwind, as in a whirlpool, the vortex will be below the
general level, and all around, the surface of the medium will descend toward it. Hence a spot
seen obliquely, as when carried toward the Sun's limb, will have its umbra more and more hidden,
while its penumbra still remains visible. Nor are we without some interpretation of the penumbra.
If, as is implied by what has been said, the so-called "willow-leaves," or "rice-grains," are
the tops of the currents ascending from the Sun's body, what changes of appearance are they
likely to undergo in the neighbourhood of a cyclone? For some distance round a cyclone there
will be a drawing in of the superficial gases toward the vortex. All the luminous spaces of
more transparent cloud forming the adjacent photosphere, will be changed in shape by these
centripetal currents. They will be greatly elongated; and there will so be produced that "thatch"-like
aspect which the penumbra presents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[The explanation of the solar spots above suggested, which was originally propounded in opposition
to that of M. Faye, was eventually adopted by him in place of his own. In the Comptes Rendus
for 1867, Vol. LXIV., p. 404, he refers to the article in the Reader, partly reproduced above,
and speaks of me as having been replied to in a previous note. Again in the Comptes Rendus
for 1872, Vol. LXXV., p. 1664, he recognizes the inadequacy of his hypothesis, saying:--"Il
est certain que l'objection de M. Spencer, reproduit et développée par M. Kirchoff, est fondée
jusqu'à un certain point; l'intérieur des taches, si ce sont des lacunes dans la photosphère,
doit être froid relativement.... Il est donc impossible qu'elles proviennent d'éruptions ascendantes."
He then proceeds to set forth the hypothesis that the spots are caused by the precipitation
of vapour in the interiors of cyclones. But though, as above shown, he refers to the objection
made in the foregoing essay to his original hypothesis, and recognizes its cogency, he does
not say that the hypothesis which he thereupon substitutes is also to be found in the foregoing
essay. Nor does he intimate this in the elaborate paper on the subject read before the French
Association for the Advancement of Science, and published in the Revue Scientifique for the
24th March 1883. The result is that the hypothesis is now currently ascribed to him.[26]

About four months before I had to revise this essay on "The Constitution of the Sun," while
staying near Pewsey, in Wiltshire, I was fortunate enough to witness a phenomenon which furnished,
by analogy, a verification of the above hypothesis, and served more especially to elucidate
one of the traits of solar spots, otherwise difficult to understand. It was at the close of
August, when there had been a spell of very hot weather. A slight current of air from the West,
moving along the line of the valley, had persisted through the day, which, up to 5 o'clock,
had been cloudless, and, with the exception now to be named, remained cloudless. The exception
was furnished by a strange-looking cloud almost directly overhead. Its central part was comparatively
dense and structureless. Its peripheral part, or to speak strictly, the two-thirds of it which
were nearest and most clearly visible, consisted of converging streaks of comparatively thin
cloud. Possibly the third part on the remoter side was similarly constituted; but this I could
not see. It did not occur to me at the time to think about its cause, though, had the question
been raised, I should doubtless have concluded that as the sky still remained cloudless everywhere
else, this precipitated mass of vapour must have resulted from a local eddy. In the space of
perhaps half-an-hour, the gentle breeze had carried this cloud some miles to the East; and
now its nature became obvious. That central part which, seen from underneath, seemed simply
a dense, confused part, apparently no nearer than the rest, now, seen sideways, was obviously
much lower than the rest and rudely funnel-shaped--nipple-shaped one might say; while the wide
thin portion of cloud above it was disk-shaped: the converging streaks of cloud being now,
in perspective, merged together. It thus became manifest that the cloud was produced by a feeble
whirlwind, perhaps a quarter to half-a-mile in diameter. Further, the appearances made it clear
that this feeble whirlwind was limited to the lower stratum of air: the stratum of air above
it was not implicated in the cyclonic action. And then, lastly, there was the striking fact
that the upper stratum, though not involved in the whirl, was, by its proximity to a region
of diminished pressure, slightly rarified; and that its precipitated vapour was, by the draught
set up towards the vortex below, drawn into converging streaks. Here, then, was an action analogous
to that which, as above suggested, happens around a sun-spot, where the masses of illuminated
vapour constituting the photosphere are drawn towards the vortex of the cyclone, and simultaneously
elongated into striæ: so forming the penumbra. At the same time there was furnished an answer
to the chief objection to the cyclonic theory of solar spots. For if, as here seen, a cyclone
in a lower stratum may fail to communicate a vortical motion to the stratum above it, we may
comprehend how, in a solar cyclone, the photosphere commonly fails to give any indication of
the revolving currents below, and is only occasionally so entangled in these currents as itself
to display a vortical motion.

Let me add that apart from the elucidations furnished by the phenomenon above described, the
probabilities are greatly in favour of the cyclonic origin of the solar spots. That some of
them exhibit clear marks of vortical motion is undeniable; and if this is so, the question
arises--What is the degree of likelihood that there are two causes for spots? Considering that
they have so many characters in common, it is extremely improbable that their common characters
are in some cases the concomitants of vortical motion and in other cases the concomitants of
a different kind of action. Recognizing this great improbability, even in the absence of a
reconciliation between the apparently conflicting traits, it is, I think, clear that when,
in the way above shown, we are enabled to understand how it happens that the vortical motion,
not ordinarily implicating the photosphere, may consequently be in most cases unapparent, the
reasons for accepting the cyclonic theory become almost conclusive.]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 25: If the "rice-grain" appearance is thus produced by the tops of the ascending
currents (and M. Faye accepts this interpretation), then I think it excludes M. Faye's hypothesis
that the Sun is gaseous throughout. The comparative smallness of the light-giving spots and
their comparative uniformity of size, show us that they have ascended through a stratum of
but moderate depth (say 10,000 miles), and that this stratum has a definite lower limit. This
favours the hypothesis of a molten shell.]

[Footnote 26: I should add that while M. Faye ascribes solar spots to clouds formed within
cyclones, we differ concerning the nature of the cloud. I have argued that it is formed by
rarefaction, and consequent refrigeration, of the metallic gases constituting the stratum in
which the cyclone exists. He argues that it is formed within the mass of cooled hydrogen drawn
from the chromosphere into the vortex of the cyclone. Speaking of the cyclones he says:--"Dans
leur embouchure évasée ils entraîneront l'hydrogène froid de la chromosphère, produisant partout
sur leur trajet vertical un abaissement notable de température et une obscurité relative, due
à l'opacité de l'hydrogène froid englouti." (Revue Scientifique, 24 March 1883.) Considering
the intense cold required to reduce hydrogen to the "critical point," it is a strong supposition
that the motion given to it by fluid friction on entering the vortex of the cyclone, can produce
a rotation, rarefaction, and cooling, great enough to produce precipitation in a region so
intensely heated.]

ILLOGICAL GEOLOGY.

    [First published in The Universal Review for July, 1859.]

That proclivity to generalization which is possessed in greater or less degree by all minds,
and without which, indeed, intelligence cannot exist, has unavoidable inconveniences. Through
it alone can truth be reached; and yet it almost inevitably betrays into error. But for the
tendency to predicate of every other case, that which has been found in the observed cases,
there could be no rational thinking; and yet by this indispensable tendency, men are perpetually
led to found, on limited experience, propositions which they wrongly assume to be universal
or absolute. In one sense, however, this can scarcely be regarded as an evil; for without premature
generalizations the true generalization would never be arrived at. If we waited till all the
facts were accumulated before trying to formulate them, the vast unorganized mass would be
unmanageable. Only by provisional grouping can they be brought into such order as to be dealt
with; and this provisional grouping is but another name for premature generalization. How uniformly
men follow this course, and how needful the errors are as steps to truth, is well illustrated
in the history of Astronomy. The heavenly bodies move round the Earth in circles, said the
earliest observers: led partly by the appearances, and partly by their experiences of central
motions in terrestrial objects, with which, as all circular, they classed the celestial motions
from lack of any alternative conception. Without this provisional belief, wrong as it was,
there could not have been that comparison of positions which showed that the motions are not
representable by circles; and which led to the hypothesis of epicycles and eccentrics. Only
by the aid of this hypothesis, equally untrue, but capable of accounting more nearly for the
appearances, and so of inducing more accurate observations--only thus did it become possible
for Copernicus to show that the heliocentric theory is more feasible than the geocentric theory;
or for Kepler to show that the planets move round the sun in ellipses. Yet again, without the
aid of Kepler's more advanced theory of the Solar system, Newton could not have established
that general law from which it follows, that the motion of a heavenly body is not necessarily
in an ellipse, but may be in any conic section. And lastly, it was only after the law of gravitation
had been verified, that it became possible to determine the actual courses of planets, satellites,
and comets; and to prove that, in consequence of perturbations, their orbits always deviate,
more or less, from regular curves. In these successive theories we may trace both the tendency
men have to leap from scanty data to wide generalizations, that are either untrue or but partially
true; and the necessity there is for such transitional generalizations as steps to the final one.

In the progress of geological speculation, the same laws of thought are displayed. We have
dogmas that were more than half false, passing current for a time as universal truths. We have
evidence collected in proof of these dogmas; by and by a colligation of facts in antagonism
with them; and eventually a consequent modification. In conformity with this improved hypothesis,
we have a better classification of facts; a greater power of arranging and interpreting the
new facts now rapidly gathered together; and further resulting corrections of hypothesis. Being,
as we are at present, in the midst of this process, it is not possible to give an adequate
account of the development of geological science as thus regarded: the earlier stages are alone
known to us. Not only, however, is it interesting to observe how the more advanced views now
received respecting the Earth's history, have been evolved out of the crude views which preceded
them; but we shall find it extremely instructive to observe this. We shall see how greatly
the old ideas still sway both the general mind and the minds of geologists themselves. We shall
see how the kind of evidence that has in part abolished these old ideas, is still daily accumulating,
and threatens to make other like revolutions. In brief, we shall see whereabouts we are in
the elaboration of a true theory of the Earth; and, seeing our whereabouts, shall be the better
able to judge, among various conflicting opinions, which best conform to the ascertained direction
of geological discovery.

It is needless here to enumerate the many speculations which were in earlier ages propounded
by acute men--speculations some of which contained portions of truth. Falling in unfit times,
these speculations did not germinate; and hence do not concern us. We have nothing to do with
ideas, however good, out of which no science grew; but only with those which gave origin to
the existing system of Geology. We therefore begin with Werner.

Taking for data the appearances of the Earth's crust in a narrow district of Germany; observing
the constant order of superposition of strata, and their respective physical characters; Werner
drew the inference that strata of like characters succeeded each other in like order over the
entire surface of the Earth. And seeing, from the laminated structure of many formations and
the organic remains contained in others, that they were sedimentary; he further inferred that
these universal strata had been in succession precipitated from a chaotic menstruum which once
covered our planet. Thus, on a very incomplete acquaintance with a thousandth part of the Earth's
crust, he based a sweeping generalization applying to the whole of it. This Neptunist hypothesis,
mark, borne out though it seemed to be by the most conspicuous surrounding facts, was quite
untenable if analyzed. That a universal chaotic menstruum should deposit a series of numerous
sharply-defined strata, differing from one another in composition, is incomprehensible. That
the strata so deposited should contain the remains of plants and animals, which could not have
lived under the supposed conditions, is still more incomprehensible. Physically absurd, however,
as was this hypothesis, it recognized, though under a distorted form, one of the great agencies
of geological change--the action of water. It served also to express the fact, that the formations
of the Earth's crust stand in some kind of order. Further, it did a little towards supplying
a nomenclature, without which much progress was impossible. Lastly, it furnished a standard
with which successions of strata in various regions could be compared, the differences noted,
and the actual sections tabulated. It was the first provisional generalization; and was useful,
if not indispensable, as a step to truer ones.

Following this rude conception, which ascribed geological phenomena to one agency, acting during
one primeval epoch, there came a greatly-improved conception, which ascribed them to two agencies,
acting alternately during successive epochs. Hutton, perceiving that sedimentary deposits were
still being formed at the bottom of the sea from the detritus carried down by rivers; perceiving,
further, that the strata of which the visible surface chiefly consists, bore marks of having
been similarly formed out of pre-existing land; and inferring that these strata could have
become land only by upheaval after their deposit; concluded that throughout an indefinite past,
there had been periodic convulsions, by which continents were raised, with intervening eras
of repose, during which such continents were worn down and transformed into new marine strata,
fated to be in their turns elevated above the surface of the ocean. And finding that igneous
action, to which sundry earlier geologists had ascribed basaltic rocks, was in countless places
a cause of disturbance, he taught that from it resulted these periodic convulsions. In this
theory we see:--first, that the previously-recognized agency of water was conceived to act,
not as by Werner, after a manner of which we have no experience, but after a manner daily displayed
to us; and secondly, that the igneous agency, before considered only as originating special
formations, was recognized as a universal agency, but assumed to act in an unproved way. Werner's
sole process Hutton developed from the catastrophic and inexplicable into the uniform and explicable;
while that antagonistic second process, of which he first adequately estimated the importance,
was regarded by him as a catastrophic one, and was not assimilated to known processes--not
explained. We have here to note, however, that the facts collected and provisionally arranged
in conformity with Werner's theory, served, after a time, to establish Hutton's more rational
theory--in so far, at least, as aqueous formations are concerned; while the doctrine of periodic
subterranean convulsions, crudely as it was conceived by Hutton, was a temporary generalization
needful as a step towards the theory of igneous action.

Since Hutton's time, the development of geological thought has gone still further in the same
direction. These early sweeping doctrines have received additional qualifications. It has been
discovered that more numerous and more heterogeneous agencies have been at work, than was at
first believed. The conception of igneous action has been rationalized, as the conception of
aqueous action had previously been. The gratuitous assumption that vast elevations suddenly
occurred after long intervals of quiescence, has grown into the consistent theory, that islands
and continents are the accumulated results of successive small upheavals, like those experienced
in ordinary earthquakes. To speak more specifically, we find, in the first place, that instead
of assuming the denudation produced by rain and rivers to be the sole means of wearing down
lands and producing their irregularities of surface, geologists now see that denudation is
only a part-cause of such irregularities; and further, that the new strata deposited at the
bottom of the sea, are not the products of river-sediment solely, but are in part due to the
actions of waves and tidal currents on the coasts. In the second place, we find that Hutton's
conception of upheaval by subterranean forces, has not only been modified by assimilating these
subterranean forces to ordinary earthquake-forces; but modern inquiries have shown that, besides
elevations of surface, subsidences are thus produced; that local upheavals, as well as the
general upheavals which raise continents, come within the same category; and that all these
changes are probably consequent on the progressive collapse of the Earth's crust upon its cooling
and contracting nucleus. In the third place, we find that beyond these two great antagonistic
agencies, modern Geology recognizes sundry minor ones: those of glaciers and icebergs, those
of coral-polypes; those of Protozoa having siliceous or calcareous shells--each of which agencies,
insignificant as it seems, is found capable of slowly working terrestrial changes of considerable
magnitude. Thus, then, the recent progress of Geology has been a still further departure from
primitive conceptions. Instead of one catastrophic cause, once in universal action, as supposed
by Werner--instead of one general continuous cause, antagonized at long intervals by a catastrophic
cause, as taught by Hutton; we now recognize several causes, all more or less general and continuous.
We no longer resort to hypothetical agencies to explain the phenomena displayed by the Earth's
crust; but we are day by day more clearly perceiving that these phenomena have arisen from
forces like those now at work, which have acted in all varieties of combination, through immeasurable
periods of time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Having thus briefly traced the evolution of geologic science, and noted its present form, let
us go on to observe the way in which it is still swayed by the crude hypotheses it set out
with; so that even now, doctrines long since abandoned as untenable in theory, continue in
practice to mould the ideas of geologists, and to foster sundry beliefs that are logically
indefensible. We shall see, both how those simple sweeping conceptions with which the science
commenced, are those which every student is apt at first to seize hold of, and how several
influences conspire to maintain the twist thus resulting--how the original nomenclature of
periods and formations necessarily keeps alive the original implications; and how the need
for arranging new data in some order, results in their being thrust into the old classification,
unless their incongruity with it is very glaring. A few facts will best prepare the way for
criticism.

Up to 1839 it was inferred, from their crystalline character, that the metamorphic rocks of
Anglesea were more ancient than any rocks of the adjacent main land; but it has since been
shown that they are of the same age with the slates and grits of Carnarvon and Merioneth. Again,
slaty cleavage having been first found only in the lowest rocks, was taken as an indication
of the highest antiquity: whence resulted serious mistakes; for this mineral characteristic
is now known to occur in the Carboniferous system. Once more, certain red conglomerates and
grits on the north-west coast of Scotland, long supposed from their lithological aspect to
belong to the Old Red Sandstone, are now identified with the Lower Silurians. These are a few
instances of the small trust to be placed in mineral qualities, as evidence of the ages or
relative positions of strata. From the recently-published third edition of Siluria, may be
culled numerous facts of like implication. Sir R. Murchison considers it ascertained, that
the siliceous Stiper stones of Shropshire are the equivalents of the Tremadock slates of North
Wales. Judged by their fossils, Bala slate and limestone are of the same age as the Caradoc
sandstone, lying forty miles off. In Radnorshire, the formation classed as upper Llandovery
rock, is described at different spots, as "sandstone or conglomerate," "impure limestone,"
"hard coarse grits," "siliceous grit"--a considerable variation for so small an area as that
of a county. Certain sandy beds on the left bank of the Towy, which Sir R. Murchison had, in
his Silurian System, classed as Caradoc sandstone (evidently from their mineral characters),
he now finds, from their fossils, belong to the Llandeilo formation. Nevertheless, inferences
from mineral characters are still habitually drawn and received. Though Siluria, in common
with other geological works, supplies numerous proofs that rocks of the same age are often
of widely-different composition a few miles off, while rocks of widely-different ages are often
of similar composition; and though Sir R. Murchison shows us, as in the case just cited, that
he has himself in past times been misled by trusting to lithological evidence; yet his reasoning
all through Siluria, shows that he still thinks it natural to expect formations of the same
age to be chemically similar, even in remote regions. For example, in treating of the Silurian
rocks of South Scotland, he says:--"When traversing the tract between Dumfries and Moffat,
in 1850, it occurred to me, that the dull reddish or purple sandstone and schist to the north
of the former town, which so resembled the bottom rocks of Longmynd, Llanberis, and St. David's,
would prove to be of the same age;" and further on, he again insists upon the fact that these
strata "are absolutely of the same composition as the bottom rocks of the Silurian region."
On this unity of mineral character it is, that this Scottish formation is concluded to be contemporaneous
with the lowest formations in Wales; for the scanty paleontological evidence suffices for neither
proof nor disproof. Now, had there been a continuity of like strata in like order between Wales
and Scotland, there might have been little to criticize in this conclusion. But since Sir R.
Murchison himself admits, that in Westmoreland and Cumberland, some members of the system "assume
a lithological aspect different from what they maintain in the Silurian and Welsh region,"
there seems no reason to expect mineralogical continuity in Scotland. Obviously, therefore,
the assumption that these Scottish formations are of the same age with the Longmynd of Shropshire,
implies the latent belief that certain mineral characters indicate certain eras. Far more striking
instances, however, of the influence of this latent belief remain to be given. Not in such
comparatively near districts as the Scottish lowlands only, does Sir R. Murchison expect a
repetition of the Longmynd strata; but in the Rhenish provinces, certain "quartzose flagstones
and grits, like those of the Longmynd," are seemingly concluded to be of contemporaneous origin,
because of their likeness. "Quartzites in roofing-slates with a greenish tinge that reminded
us of the lower slates of Cumberland and Westmoreland," are evidently suspected to be of the
same age. In Russia, he remarks that the carboniferous limestones "are overlaid along the western
edge of the Ural chain by sandstones and grits, which occupy much the same place in the general
series as the millstone grit of England;" and in calling this group, as he does, the "representative
of the millstone grit," Sir R. Murchison clearly shows that he thinks likeness of mineral composition
some evidence of equivalence in time, even at that great distance. Nay, on the flanks of the
Andes and in the United States, such similarities are looked for, and considered as significant
of certain ages. Not that Sir R. Murchison contends theoretically for this relation between
lithological character and date. For on the page from which we have just quoted (Siluria, p.
387), he says, that "whilst the soft Lower Silurian clays and sands of St. Petersburg have
their equivalents in the hard schists and quartz rocks with gold veins in the heart of the
Ural mountains, the equally soft red and green Devonian marls of the Valdai Hills are represented
on the western flank of that chain by hard, contorted, and fractured limestones." But these,
and other such admissions, seem to go for little. While himself asserting that the Potsdam-sandstone
of North America, the Lingula-flags of England, and the alum-slates of Scandinavia are of the
same period--while fully aware that among the Silurian formations of Wales, there are oolitic
strata like those of secondary age; yet his reasoning is more or less coloured by the assumption,
that formations of like qualities probably belong to the same era. Is it not manifest, then,
that the exploded hypothesis of Werner continues to influence geological speculation?

"But," it will perhaps be said, "though individual strata are not continuous over large areas,
yet systems of strata are. Though within a few miles the same bed gradually passes from clay
into sand, or thins out and disappears, yet the group of strata to which it belongs does not
do so; but maintains in remote regions the same relations to other groups."

This is the generally-current belief. On this assumption the received geological classifications
appear to be framed. The Silurian system, the Devonian system, the Carboniferous system, etc.,
are set down in our books as groups of formations which everywhere succeed each other in a
given order; and are severally everywhere of the same age. Though it may not be asserted that
these successive systems are universal; yet it seems to be tacitly assumed that they are. In
North and South America, in Asia, in Australia, sets of strata are assimilated to one or other
of these groups; and their possession of certain mineral characters and a certain order of
superposition are among the reasons assigned for so assimilating them. Though, probably, no
competent geologist would contend that the European classification of strata is applicable
to the globe as a whole; yet most, if not all geologists, write as though it were. Among readers
of works on Geology, nine out of ten carry away the impression that the divisions, Primary,
Secondary and Tertiary, are of absolute and uniform application; that these great divisions
are separable into subdivisions, each of which is definitely distinguishable from the rest,
and is everywhere recognizable by its characters as such or such; and that in all parts of
the Earth, these minor systems severally began and ended at the same time. When they meet with
the term "Carboniferous era," they take for granted that it was an era universally carboniferous--that
it was, what Hugh Miller indeed actually describes it, an era when the Earth bore a vegetation
far more luxuriant than it has since done; and were they in any of our colonies to meet with
a coal-bed, they would conclude that, as a matter of course, it was of the same age as the
English coal-beds.

Now this belief that geologic "systems" are universal, is no more tenable than the other. It
is just as absurd when considered a priori; and it is equally inconsistent with the facts.
Though some series of strata classed together as Oolite, may range over a wider district than
any one stratum of the series; yet we have but to ask what were the circumstances under which
it was deposited, to see that the Oolitic series, like one of its individual strata, must be
of local origin; and that there is not likely to be anywhere else, a series which corresponds,
either in its characters or in its commencement and termination. For the formation of such
a series implies an area of subsidence, in which its component beds were thrown down. Every
area of subsidence is necessarily limited; and to suppose that there exist elsewhere groups
of beds completely answering to those known as Oolite, is to suppose that, in contemporaneous
areas of subsidence, like processes were going on. There is no reason to suppose this; but
good reason to suppose the reverse. That in contemporaneous areas of subsidence throughout
the globe, the conditions would cause the formation of Oolite, is an assumption which no modern
geologist would openly make. He would say that the equivalent series of beds found elsewhere,
would probably be of dissimilar mineral character. Moreover, in these contemporaneous areas
of subsidence, the processes going on would not only be different in kind; but in no two cases
would they be likely to agree in their commencements and terminations. The probabilities are
greatly against separate portions of the Earth's surface beginning to subside at the same time,
and ceasing to subside at the same time--a coincidence which alone could produce equivalent
groups of strata. Subsidences in different places begin and end with utter irregularity; and
hence the groups of strata thrown down in them can but rarely correspond. Measured against
each other in time, their limits must disagree. On turning to the evidence, we find that it
daily tends more and more to justify these a priori positions. Take, as an example, the Old
Red Sandstone system. In the north of England this is represented by a single stratum of conglomerate.
In Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Shropshire, it expands into a series of strata from eight
to ten thousand feet thick, made up of conglomerates, red, green, and white sandstones, red,
green, and spotted marls, and concretionary limestones. To the south-west, as between Caermarthen
and Pembroke, these Old Red Sandstone strata exhibit considerable lithological changes; on
the other side of the Bristol Channel, they display further changes in mineral characters;
while in South Devon and Cornwall, the equivalent strata, consisting chiefly of slates, schists,
and limestones, are so wholly different, that they were for a long time classed as Silurian.
When we thus see that in certain directions the whole group of deposits thins out, and that
its mineral characters change within moderate distances; does it not become clear that the
whole group of deposits was a local one? And when we find, in other regions, formations analogous
to these Old Red Sandstone or Devonian formations, is it certain--is it even probable--that
they severally began and ended at the same time with them? Should it not require overwhelming
evidence to make us believe as much?

Yet so strongly is geological speculation swayed by the tendency to regard the phenomena as
general instead of local, that even those most on their guard against it seem unable to escape
its influence. At page 158 of his Principles of Geology, Sir Charles Lyell says:--

     "A group of red marl and red sandstone, containing salt and gypsum,
     being interposed in England between the Lias and the Coal, all
     other red marls and sandstones, associated some of them with salt,
     and others with gypsum, and occurring not only in different parts
     of Europe, but in North America, Peru, India, the salt deserts of
     Asia, those of Africa--in a word, in every quarter of the globe,
     were referred to one and the same period.... It was in vain to urge
     as an objection the improbability of the hypothesis which implies
     that all the moving waters on the globe were once simultaneously
     charged with sediment of a red colour. But the rashness of
     pretending to identify, in age, all the red sandstones and marls in
     question, has at length been sufficiently exposed, by the discovery
     that, even in Europe, they belong decidedly to many different
     epochs."

Nevertheless, while in this and many kindred passages Sir C. Lyell protests against the bias
here illustrated, he seems himself not completely free from it. Though he utterly rejects the
old hypothesis that all over the Earth the same continuous strata lie one upon another in regular
order, like the coats of an onion, he still writes as though geologic "systems" do thus succeed
each other. A reader of his Manual would certainly suppose him to believe, that the Primary
epoch ended, and the secondary epoch began, all over the world at the same time--that these
terms really correspond to distinct universal eras. When he assumes, as he does, that the division
between Cambrian and Lower Silurian in America, answers chronologically to the division between
Cambrian and Lower Silurian in Wales--when he takes for granted that the partings of Lower
from Middle Silurian, and of Middle Silurian from Upper, in the one region, are of the same
dates as the like partings in the other region; does it not seem that he believes geologic
"systems" to be universal, in the sense that their separations were in all places contemporaneous?
Though he would, doubtless, disown this as an article of faith, is not his thinking unconsciously
influenced by it? Must we not say that, though the onion-coat hypothesis is dead, its spirit
is traceable, under a transcendental form, even in the conclusions of its antagonists?

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us now consider another leading geological doctrine,--the doctrine that strata of the same
age contain like fossils; and that, therefore, the age and relative position of any stratum
may be known by its fossils. While the theory that strata of like mineral characters were everywhere
deposited simultaneously, has been ostensibly abandoned, there has been accepted the theory
that in each geologic epoch similar plants and animals existed everywhere; and that, therefore,
the epoch to which any formation belongs may be known by the organic remains contained in the
formation. Though, perhaps, no leading geologist would openly commit himself to an unqualified
assertion of this theory, yet it is tacitly assumed in current geological reasoning.

This theory, however, is scarcely more tenable than the other. It cannot be concluded with
any certainty, that formations in which similar organic remains are found, were of contemporaneous
origin; nor can it be safely concluded that strata containing different organic remains are
of different ages. To most readers these will be startling propositions; but they are fully
admitted by the highest authorities. Sir Charles Lyell confesses that the test of organic remains
must be used "under very much the same restrictions as the test of mineral composition." Sir
Henry de la Beche, who variously illustrates this truth, remarks on the great incongruity there
must be between the fossils of our carboniferous rocks and those of the marine strata deposited
at the same period. But though, in the abstract, the danger of basing positive conclusions
on evidence derived from fossils, is recognized; yet, in the concrete, this danger is generally
disregarded. The established convictions respecting the ages of strata, have been formed in
spite of it; and by some geologists it seems altogether ignored. Throughout his Siluria, Sir
R. Murchison habitually assumes that the same, or kindred, species, lived in all parts of the
Earth at the same time. In Russia, in Bohemia, in the United States, in South America, strata
are classed as belonging to this or that part of the Silurian system, because of the similar
fossils contained in them--are concluded to be everywhere contemporaneous if they enclose a
proportion of identical or allied forms. In Russia the relative position of a stratum is inferred
from the fact that, along with some Wenlock forms, it yields the Pentamerus oblongus. Certain
crustaceans called Eurypteri, being characteristic of the Upper Ludlow rock, it is remarked
that "large Eurypteri occur in a so-called black grey-wacke slate in Westmoreland, in Oneida
County, New York, which will probably be found to be on the parallel of the Upper Ludlow rock:"
in which word "probably," we see both how dominant is this belief of universal distribution
of similar creatures at the same period, and how apt this belief is to make its own proof,
by raising the expectation that the ages are identical when the forms are alike. Besides thus
interpreting the formations of Russia, England, and America, Sir R. Murchison thus interprets
those of the antipodes. Fossils from Victoria Colony, he agrees with the Government-surveyor
in classing as of Lower Silurian or Llandovery age: that is, he takes for granted that when
certain crustaceans and mollusks were living in Wales, certain similar crustaceans and mollusks
were living in Australia. Yet the improbability of this assumption may be readily shown from
Sir R. Murchison's own facts. If, as he points out, the fossil crustaceans of the uppermost
Silurian rocks in Lanarkshire are, "with one doubtful exception," all "distinct from any of
the forms known on the same horizon in England;" how can it be fairly presumed that the forms
existing on the other side of the Earth during the Silurian period, were nearly allied to those
existing here? Not only, indeed, do Sir R. Murchison's conclusions tacitly assume this doctrine
of universal distribution, but he distinctly enunciates it. "The mere presence of a graptolite,"
he says, "will at once decide that the enclosing rock is Silurian;" and he says this, notwithstanding
repeated warnings against such generalizations. During the progress of Geology, it has over
and over again happened that a particular fossil, long considered characteristic of a particular
formation, has been afterwards discovered in other formations. Until some twelve years ago,
Goniatites had not been found lower than the Devonian rocks; but now, in Bohemia, they have
been found in rocks classed as Silurian. Quite recently, the Orthoceras, previously supposed
to be a type exclusively palæozoic, has been detected along with mesozoic Ammonites and Belemnites.
Yet hosts of such experiences fail to extinguish the assumption, that the age of a stratum
may be determined by the occurrence in it of a single fossil form. Nay, this assumption survives
evidence of even a still more destructive kind. Referring to the Silurian system in Western
Ireland, Sir R. Murchison says, "in the beds near Maam, Professor Nicol and myself collected
remains, some of which would be considered Lower, and others Upper, Silurian;" and he then
names sundry fossils which, in England, belong to the summit of the Ludlow rocks, or highest
Silurian strata; "some, which elsewhere are known only in rocks of Llandovery age"--that is,
of middle Silurian age; and some, only before known in Lower Silurian strata, not far above
the most ancient fossiliferous beds. Now what do these facts prove? Clearly, they prove that
species which in Wales are separated by strata more than twenty thousand feet deep, and therefore
seem to belong to periods far more remote from each other, were really co-existent. They prove
that the mollusks and crinoids held to be characteristic of early Silurian strata, and supposed
to have become extinct long before the mollusks and crinoids of the later Silurian strata came
into existence, were really flourishing at the same time with these last; and that these last
possibly date back to as early a period as the first. They prove that not only the mineral
characters of sedimentary formations, but also the collections of organic forms they contain,
depend, to a great extent, on local circumstances. They prove that the fossils met with in
any series of strata, cannot be taken as representing anything like the whole Flora and Fauna
of the period they belong to. In brief, they throw great doubt upon numerous geological generalizations.
Having decided that in various places in Europe, middle Eocene strata are distinguished by
Nummulites; he infers, without any other assigned evidence, that wherever Nummulites are found--in
Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, in Persia, Scinde, Cutch, Eastern Bengal, and the frontiers of China--the
containing formation is Middle Eocene. And from this inference he draws the following important
corollary:--

     "When we have once arrived at the conviction that the nummulitic
     formation occupies a middle place in the Eocene series, we are
     struck with the comparatively modern date to which some of the
     greatest revolutions in the physical geography of Europe, Asia, and
     northern Africa must be referred. All the mountain chains, such as
     the Alps, Pyrenees, Carpathians, and Himalayas, into the
     composition of whose central and loftiest parts the nummulitic
     strata enter bodily, could have had no existence till after the
     Middle Eocene period."--Manual, p. 232.

A still more marked case follows on the next page. Because a certain bed at Claiborne in Alabama,
which contains "four hundred species of marine shells," includes among them the Cardita planicosta,
"and some others identical with European species, or very nearly allied to them," Sir C. Lyell
says it is "highly probable the Claiborne beds agree in age with the central or Bracklesham
group of England." When we find contemporaneity alleged on the strength of a community no greater
than that which sometimes exists between strata of widely-different ages in the same country,
it seems as though the above-quoted caution had been forgotten. It appears to be assumed for
the occasion, that species which had a wide range in space had a narrow range in time; which
is the reverse of the fact. The tendency to systematize overrides the evidence, and thrusts
Nature into a formula too rigid to fit her endless variety.

"But," it may be urged, "surely, when in different places the order of superposition, the mineral
characters, and the fossils, agree, it may safely be concluded that the formations thus corresponding
date back to the same time. If, for example, the United States display a succession of Silurian,
Devonian, and Carboniferous systems, lithologically similar to those known here by those names,
and characterized by like fossils, it is a fair inference that these groups of strata were
severally being deposited in America while their equivalents were being deposited here."

On this position, which seems a strong one, we have, in the first place, to remark, that the
evidence of correspondence is always more or less suspicious. We have already adverted to the
several "idols"--if we may use Bacon's metaphor--to which geologists unconsciously sacrifice,
when interpreting the structures of unexplored regions. Carrying with them the classification
of strata existing in Europe, and assuming that groups of strata in other parts of the world
must answer to some of the groups of strata known here, they are necessarily prone to assert
parallelism on insufficient evidence. They scarcely entertain the previous question, whether
the formations they are examining have or have not any European equivalents; but the question
is--with which of the European series shall they be classed?--with which do they most agree?--from
which do they differ least? And this being the mode of inquiry, there is apt to result great
laxity of interpretation. How lax the interpretation really is, may be readily shown. When
strata are discontinuous, as between Europe and America, no evidence can be derived from the
order of superposition, apart from mineral characters and organic remains; for, unless strata
can be continuously traced, mineral characters and organic remains afford the only means of
classing them as such or such. As to the test of mineral characters, we have seen that it is
almost worthless; and no modern geologist would dare to say it should be relied on. If the
Old Red Sandstone series in mid-England, differs wholly in lithological aspect from the equivalent
series in South Devon, it is clear that similarities of texture and composition cannot justify
us in classing a system of strata in another quarter of the globe with some European system.
The test of fossils is the only one that remains; and with how little strictness this test
is applied, one case will show. Of forty-six species of British Devonian corals, only six occur
in America; and this, notwithstanding the wide range which the Anthozoa are known to have.
Similarly of the Mollusca and Crinoidea, it appears that, while there are sundry genera found
in America which are found here, there are scarcely any of the same species. And Sir Charles
Lyell admits that "the difficulty of deciding on the exact parallelism of the New York subdivisions,
as above enumerated, with the members of the European Devonian, is very great, so few are the
species in common." Yet it is on the strength of community of fossils, that the whole Devonian
series of the United States is assumed to be contemporaneous with the whole Devonian series
of England. And it is partly on the ground that the Devonian of the United States corresponds
in time with our own Devonian, that Sir Charles Lyell concludes the superjacent coal-measures
of the two countries to be of the same age. Is it not, then, as we said, that the evidence
in these cases is very suspicious? Should it be replied, as it may fairly be, that this correspondence
from which the synchronism of distant formations is inferred, is not a correspondence between
particular species or particular genera, but between the general characters of the contained
assemblages of fossils--between the facies of the two Faunas; the rejoinder is, that though
such correspondence is a stronger evidence of synchronism it is still an insufficient one.
To infer synchronism from such correspondence, involves the postulate that throughout each
geologic era there has habitually existed a recognizable similarity between the groups of organic
forms inhabiting all the different parts of the Earth; and that the causes which have in one
part of the Earth changed the organic forms into those which characterize the next era, have
simultaneously acted in all other parts of the Earth, in such ways as to produce parallel changes
of their organic forms. Now this is not only a large assumption to make; but it is an assumption
contrary to probability. The probability is, that the causes which have changed Faunas have
been local rather than universal; that hence while the Faunas of some regions have been rapidly
changing, those of others have been almost quiescent; and that when those of others have been
changed, it has been, not in such ways as to maintain parallelism, but in such ways as to produce
divergence.

Even supposing, however, that districts some hundreds of miles apart, furnished groups of strata
which completely agreed in their order of superposition, their mineral characters, and their
fossils, we should still have inadequate proof of contemporaneity. For there are conditions,
very likely to occur, under which such groups might differ widely in age. If there be a continent
of which the strata crop out on the surface obliquely to the line of coast--running, say, west-north-west,
while the coast runs east and west--it is clear that each group of strata will crop out on
the beach at a particular part of the coast; that further west the next group of strata will
crop out on the beach; and so continuously. As the localization of marine plants and animals,
is in a considerable degree determined by the natures of the rocks and their detritus, it follows
that each part of this coast will have its more or less distinct Flora and Fauna. What now
must result from the action of the waves in the course of a geologic epoch? As the sea makes
slow inroads on the land, the place at which each group of strata crops out on the beach will
gradually move towards the west: its distinctive fish, mollusks, crustaceans, and sea-weeds,
migrating with it. Further, the detritus of each of these groups of strata will, as the point
of outcrop moves westwards, be deposited over the detritus of the group in advance of it. And
the consequence of these actions, carried on for one of those enormous periods which a geologic
change takes, will be that, corresponding to each eastern stratum, there will arise a stratum
far to the west, which, though occupying the same position relatively to other beds, formed
of like materials, and containing like fossils, will yet be perhaps a million years later in date.

       *       *       *       *       *

But the illegitimacy, or at any rate the great doubtfulness, of many current geological inferences,
is best seen when we contemplate terrestrial changes now going on; and ask how far such inferences
are countenanced by them. If we carry out rigorously the modern method of interpreting geological
phenomena, which Sir Charles Lyell has done so much to establish--that of referring them to
causes like those at present in action--we cannot fail to see how improbable are sundry of
the received conclusions.

Along each shore which is being worn away by the waves, there are being formed mud, sand, and
pebbles. This detritus has, in each locality, a more or less special character; determined
by the nature of the strata destroyed. In the English Channel it is not the same as in the
Irish Channel; on the east coast of Ireland it is not the same as on the west coast; and so
throughout. At the mouth of each great river, there is being deposited sediment differing more
or less from that deposited at the mouths of other rivers in colour and quality; forming strata
which are here red, there yellow, and elsewhere brown, grey, or dirty white. Besides which
various formations, going on in deltas and along shores, there are some much wider, and still
more strongly contrasted, formations. At the bottom of the Ægean Sea, there is accumulating
a bed of Pteropod shells, which will eventually, no doubt, become a calcareous rock. For some
hundreds of thousands of square miles, the ocean-bed between Great Britain and North America,
is being covered with a stratum of chalk; and over large areas in the Pacific, there are going
on deposits of coralline limestone. Thus, there are at this moment being produced in different
places multitudinous strata differing from one another in lithological characters. Name at
random any part of the sea-bottom, and ask whether the deposit there taking place is like the
deposit taking place at some distant part of the sea-bottom, and the almost-certainly correct
answer will be--No. The chances are not in favour of similarity, but against it--many to one
against it.

In the order of superposition of strata there is being established a like variety. Each region
of the Earth's surface has its special history of elevations, subsidences, periods of rest:
and this history in no case fits chronologically with the history of any other portion. River
deltas are now being thrown down on formations of different ages: some very ancient, some quite
modern. While here there has been deposited a series of beds many hundreds of feet thick, there
has elsewhere been deposited but a single bed of fine mud. While one region of the Earth's
crust, continuing for a vast epoch above the surface of the ocean, bears record of no changes
save those resulting from denudation; another region of the Earth's crust gives proof of sundry
changes of level, with their several resulting masses of stratified detritus. If anything is
to be judged from current processes, we must infer, not only that everywhere the succession
of sedimentary formations differs more or less from the succession elsewhere; but also that
in each place, there exist groups of strata to which many other places have no equivalents.

With respect to the organic bodies imbedded in formations now in progress, a like truth is
equally manifest, if not more manifest. Even along the same coast, within moderate distances,
the forms of life differ very considerably; and they differ much more on coasts that are remote
from one another. Again, dissimilar creatures which are living together near the same shore,
do not leave their remains in the same beds of sediment. For instance, at the bottom of the
Adriatic, where the prevailing currents cause the deposits to be here of mud, and there of
calcareous matter, it is proved that different species of co-existing shells are being buried
in these respective formations. On our own coasts, the marine remains found a few miles from
shore, in banks where fish congregate, are different from those found close to the shore, where
littoral species flourish. A large proportion of aquatic creatures have structures which do
not admit of fossilization; while of the rest, the great majority are destroyed, when dead,
by various kinds of scavengers. So that no one deposit near our shores can contain anything
like a true representation of the Fauna of the surrounding sea; much less of the co-existing
Faunas of other seas in the same latitude; and still less of the Faunas of seas in distant
latitudes. Were it not that the assertion seems needful, it would be almost absurd to say,
that the organic remains now being buried in the Dogger Bank, can tell us next to nothing about
the fish, crustaceans, mollusks, and corals, which are being buried in the Bay of Bengal. Still
stronger is the argument in the case of terrestrial life. With more numerous and greater contrasts
between the types inhabiting one continent and those inhabiting another, there is a far more
imperfect registry of them. Schouw marks out on the Earth more than twenty botanical regions,
occupied by groups of forms so distinct, that, if fossilized, geologists would scarcely be
disposed to refer them all to the same period. Of Faunas, the Arctic differs from the Temperate;
the Temperate from the Tropical; and the South Temperate from the North Temperate. Nay, in
the South Temperate Zone itself, the two regions of South Africa and South America are unlike
in their mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, mollusks, insects. The shells and bones now lying
at the bottoms of lakes and estuaries in these several regions, have certainly not that similarity
which is usually looked for in those of contemporaneous strata; and the recent forms exhumed
in any one of these regions would very untruly represent the present Flora and Fauna of the
Earth. In conformity with the current style of geological reasoning, an exhaustive examination
of deposits in the Arctic circle, might be held to prove that though at this period there were
sundry mammals existing, there were no reptiles; while the absence of mammals in the deposits
of the Galapagos Archipelago, where there are plenty of reptiles, might be held to prove the
reverse. And at the same time, from the formations extending for two thousand miles along the
great barrier-reef of Australia--formations in which are imbedded nothing but corals, echinoderms,
mollusks, crustaceans, and fish, along with an occasional turtle, or bird, or cetacean--it
might be inferred that there lived in our epoch neither terrestrial reptiles, nor terrestrial
mammals. The mention of Australia, indeed, suggests an illustration which, even alone, would
amply prove our case. The Fauna of this region differs widely from any that is found elsewhere.
On land, all the indigenous mammals, except bats, belong to the lowest, or implacental division;
and the insects are singularly different from those found elsewhere. The surrounding seas contain
numerous forms which are more or less strange; and among the fish there exists a species of
shark, which is the only living representative of a genus that flourished in early geologic
epochs. If, now, the modern fossiliferous deposits of Australia were to be examined by one
ignorant of the existing Australian Fauna; and if he were to reason in the usual manner; he
would be very unlikely to class these deposits with those of the present time. How, then, can
we place confidence in the tacit assumption that certain formations in remote parts of the
Earth are referable to the same period, because the organic remains contained in them display
a certain community of character? or that certain others are referable to different periods,
because the facies of their Faunas are different?

"But," it will be replied, "in past eras the same, or similar, organic forms were more widely
distributed than now." It may be so; but the evidence adduced by no means proves it. The argument
by which this conclusion is reached, runs a risk of being quoted as an example of reasoning
in a circle. As already pointed out, between formations in remote regions the accepted test
of equivalence is community of fossils. If, then, the contemporaneity of remote formations
is concluded from the likeness of their fossils; how can it be said that similar plants and
animals were once more widely distributed, because they are found in contemporaneous strata
in remote regions? Is not the fallacy manifest? Even supposing there were no such fatal objection
as this, the evidence commonly assigned would still be insufficient. For we must bear in mind
that the community of organic remains usually thought sufficient proof of correspondence in
time, is a very imperfect community. When the compared sedimentary beds are far apart, it is
scarcely expected that there will be many species common to the two: it is enough if there
be discovered a considerable number of common genera. Now had it been proved that throughout
geologic time, each genus lived but for a short period--a period measured by a single group
of strata--something might be inferred. But what if we learn that many of the same genera continued
to exist throughout enormous epochs, measured by several vast systems of strata? "Among molluscs,
the genera Avicula, Modiola, Terebratula, Lingula, and Orbicula, are found from the Silurian
rocks upwards to the present day." If, then, between the lowest fossiliferous formations and
the most recent, there exists this degree of community; must we not infer that there will probably
often exist a great degree of community between strata that are far from contemporaneous?

Thus the reasoning from which it is concluded that similar organic forms were once more widely
spread than now, is doubly fallacious; and, consequently, the classifications of foreign strata
based on the conclusion are untrustworthy. Judging from the present distribution of life, we
cannot expect to find similar remains in geographically remote strata of the same age; and
where, between the fossils of geographically remote strata, we do find much similarity, it
is probably due rather to likeness of conditions than to contemporaneity. If from causes and
effects such as we now witness, we reason back to the causes and effects of past epochs, we
discover inadequate warrant for sundry of the received doctrines. Seeing, as we do, that in
large areas of the Pacific this is a period characterized by abundance of corals; that in the
North Atlantic it is a period in which a great chalk-deposit is being formed; and that in the
valley of the Mississippi it is a period of new coal-basins--seeing also, as we do, that in
one extensive continent this is peculiarly an era of implacental mammals, and that in another
extensive continent it is peculiarly an era of placental mammals; we have good reason to hesitate
before accepting these sweeping generalizations which are based on a cursory examination of
strata occupying but a tenth part of the Earth's surface.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the outset, this article was to have been a review of the works of Hugh Miller; but it has
grown into something much more general. Nevertheless, the remaining two doctrines which we
propose to criticize, may conveniently be treated in connexion with his name, as that of one
who fully committed himself to them. And first, a few words respecting his position.

