He gave his starry youth,
    His quick, audacious sword,
    His name, his crested plume.
    And what gave we?
    We gave--a nation's heart!
Reprinted October, 1917. Two bare
round towers flank the building on the right and on the left. Rows of
lofty French windows are built across the upper part of the front, and
the small, ungenerous doorway below has a line of portholes on either
side that suggest a thought of warlike days gone by.

This castle, built in the fourteenth century, is called the Château de Chaviniac de Lafayette.
Though it was burned to the ground in 1701, it was rebuilt as nearly like the earlier structure
as possible; hence it represents, as it stands, the chivalrous days of the crusading period
and so forms a fitting birthplace for a hero. In this half-military château was born one of
the most valiant champions of liberty that any country has ever produced--the Marquis de Lafayette.

The climate of the Haute-Loire--the highlands of Auvergne--is harsh; it has been called the
French Siberia. There are upland moors like deserts across which sweep fierce winds, where
the golden broom and the purple heather--flowers of the barren heights--are all that will flourish.
There are, indeed, secluded valleys filled with muskmallows and bracken, but these are often
visited by wild tempests, and sudden floods may make the whole region dreary and dangerous.

In Lafayette's time the violence of the elements was not the only thing to be dreaded. When
the children wandered too near the edge of the forest, they might catch sight of a wild boar
nozzling about for mushrooms under the dead oak leaves; and if it had been a severe winter,
it was quite within possibility that wolves or hyenas might come from their hiding places in
the rocky recesses of the mountains and lurk hungrily near the villages.

The family living in the old château was one whose records could be traced to the year one
thousand, when a certain man by the name of Motier acquired an estate called Villa Faya, and
thereafter he became known as Motier de la Fayette. In 1240 Pons Motier married the noble Alix
Brun de Champetières; and from their line descended the famous Lafayettes known to all Americans.
Other Auvergne estates were added to the Chaviniac acres as the years went by, some with old
castles high up in the mountains behind Chaviniac, and all these were inherited by the father
of America's famous champion.

Lafayette's father was a notable warrior, as his father had been--and his--and his--away back
to the days of the Crusades. Pons Motier de la Fayette fought at Acre; Jean Motier de la Fayette
fell at Poitiers. There were marshals who bore the banner in many a combat of olden times when
the life of the country was at stake. It was a Lafayette who won the battle at Beaugé in 1421,
when the English Duke of Clarence was defeated and his country was compelled to resign hope
of a complete conquest of France. Among other men who bore the name, there were military governors
of towns and cities, aids to kings in war, captains and seneschals. Many of them spent their
lives in camps and on battlefields. One of them saw thirty years of active service; another
found that after thirty-eight years of military life he had been present at no less than sixty-five
sieges besides taking part in many pitched battles. Lafayette's grandfather was wounded in
three battles; and his uncle, Jacques Roch Motier, was killed in battle at the age of twenty-three.

During the summer before Lafayette's birth, his father, the young chevalier and colonel, not
then twenty-five, had been living quietly in the Château Chaviniac. But a great conflict was
going on--the Seven Years' War was being waged. He heard the call of his country and he felt
it his duty to respond.

There was a sad parting from his beautiful young wife; then he dashed down the steep, rocky
roadway from the château to the village, and so galloped away--over the plains, through fords
and defiles, toward the German border--never to return.

Lafayette's ancestors on his mother's side were equally distinguished for military spirit.
His mother was the daughter of the Comte de la Rivière, lieutenant general and captain of the
second company of the King's Musketeers.

But this "hero of two worlds" inherited something more than military spirit. The ancestors
from which he descended formed a line of true gentlefolk. For hundreds of years they had been
renowned throughout the region of their Auvergne estates for lofty character and a kindly attitude
toward their humble peasant neighbors. It was only natural that this most famous representative
of the line should become a valiant champion of justice and freedom.

This great man was destined to have as many adventures as any boy of to-day could wish for.
To recount them all would require not one book, but a dozen. Think of a lad of nineteen being
a general in our Revolutionary War, and the trusted friend and helper of Washington! Lafayette
was present at the surrender of Cornwallis, boyishly happy at the achievements of the American
soldiery, and taking especial pride in his own American regiment. This period was followed
by a worthy career in France, but for five years--from his thirty-fifth year to his fortieth--he
was unjustly imprisoned in a grim old Austrian fortress. At the age of sixty-seven he made
a wonderful tour through our country, being received with ceremonies and rejoicings wherever
he went; for every one remembered with deep gratitude what this charming, courteous, elderly
man had done for us in his youth. He lived to the ripe age of seventy-seven, surrounded by
children and grandchildren, and interested in the work of the world up to the very last.

The birth of Lafayette is recorded in the yellow and timeworn parish register of Chaviniac.
This ancient document states that on September 6, 1757, was born that "very high and very puissant
gentleman Monseigneur Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert Dumotier de Lafayette, the lawful
son of the very high and the very puissant Monseigneur Michel-Louis-Christophe-Roch-Gilbert
Dumotier, Marquis de Lafayette, Baron de Wissac, Seigneur de Saint-Romain and other places,
and of the very high and very puissant lady Madame Marie-Louise-Julie de la Rivière."

But it was only on official documents that Lafayette's full name, terrifying in its length,
was used. Reduced to republican simplicity, the Marquis de Lafayette's name was Gilbert Motier,
although he was always proud of the military title, "General," bestowed on him by our country.
To tell the truth, imposing names meant little to this friend of liberty, who was a true republican
at heart and who, during the French Revolution, voluntarily resigned all the titles of nobility
he had inherited.

During his earliest childhood Lafayette was somewhat delicate. The child first opened his eyes
in a sorrowful home at the old Château Chaviniac, for word had come, only a month before, that
Lafayette's father had been killed at the battle of Minden, leaving the young mother a widow.
The boy, however, grew in strength with the years. Naturally, all was done that could be done
to keep him in health. At any rate, either through those mountain winds, or in spite of them,
he developed a constitution so vigorous as to withstand the many strains he was to undergo
in the course of his long and adventurous life.

The supreme characteristic of the man showed early in the boy when, at only eight years of
age, he became possessed of an unselfish impulse to go out and perform a feat which for one
so young would have been heroic. It was reported in the castle that a dangerous hyena was prowling
about in the vicinity of the estate, terrifying everybody. The boy's sympathy was roused, and,
from the moment he first heard of it, his greatest longing was to meet the cruel creature and
have it out with him.

It is not recorded that the eight-year-old boy ever met that wild animal face to face, and
it is well for the world that he did not. He was preserved to stand up against other and more
significant spoilers of the world's welfare.

His education was begun under the care of his mother, assisted by his grandmother, a woman
of unusually strong character; these, together with two aunts, formed a group whose memory
was tenderly revered by Lafayette to the end of his life.

The boy Lafayette cared a great deal for hunting. Writing back to a cousin at home after he
had been sent to Paris to school, he told her that what he would most like to hear about when
she wrote to him would be the great events of the hunting season. His cousin, it appears, had
written him an account of a hunt in the neighborhood, but she had not written enough about
it to satisfy his desire. Why did she not give details? he asked. He reproachfully added that
if he had been writing to her of a new-fashioned cap, he would have taken compass in hand and
described it with mathematical accuracy. This she should have done concerning the great hunt
if she had really wished to give him pleasure!

This fortunate boy could select any career he liked; courtier, lawyer, politician, writer,
soldier--whatever he chose. Never came opportunity more richly laden to the doorway of any youth.

He chose to be a soldier. The double-barred doors of iron, the lofty, protected windows, the
military pictures on the walls of his home--all spoke to the Chaviniac child of warfare and
conflict. There was the portrait of his father in cuirass and helmet. There were far-away ancestors
in glistening armor and laced jackets. There was also the military portrait of that Gilbert
Motier de Lafayette who was marshal in the time of Charles VII, and whose motto "Cur non" (Why
not?) was chosen by Lafayette for his own when he started on his first voyage. The instinct
for warfare, for the organization of armies, for struggle and conquest, were strong in him,
and were fostered and nourished by every impression of his boyhood's home.

CHAPTER II

COLLEGE AND COURT

In the year 1768 the boy Lafayette, then eleven years old, left his mountain home and went
to Paris, where he was placed by his mother in the Collège du Plessis, a school for boys of
the nobility.

The arrangements for the student in a French college at that time were simple. A room scarcely
wider than a cell was assigned to each boy. It was locked at night; but holes were cut in the
door so that the fresh air might come in. This, at least, was the theory. Practically, however,
the little cell must have been very stuffy, for the windows in the halls were shut tight in
order that the health of the pupils might not be injured by currents of damp air from outside.

Special attention was given to diet, care being taken that the boys should not eat any uncooked
fruit lest it should injure them. Parents might come to visit their children, but they were
not allowed to pass beyond the threshold--a familiar chat on home matters might interfere with
the studious mood of the scholars.

What were the studies of this young aristocrat?

First and foremost, heraldry. From earliest days his tutors had instilled into him the idea
that the study of the coats of arms of reigning and noble families, together with all that
they stood for, was first in importance.

Then the young student must dance, write, and draw. He must be able to converse wittily and
with apt repartee. Fencing and vaulting were considered essential, as well as riding with grace
and skill and knowing all about the management of the horse.

As far as books were concerned, the Latin masters--Cæsar, Sallust, Virgil, Terence, Cicero--were
carefully studied. The boys were obliged to translate from Latin into French and from French
into Latin. Occasionally this training proved useful. It is related that one of the French
soldiers who came to New England and who could not speak English resorted to Latin and found
to his joy that the inhabitant of Connecticut, from whom he wished to purchase supplies for
his regiment, could be communicated with by that obsolete medium; and what would Lafayette
have done when imprisoned in an Austrian dungeon if he had not been able to converse with his
official jailers in the Latin tongue!

In historical studies the greatest attention was given to wars and treaties and acquisitions
of territory. The royal families of his native country and of neighboring kingdoms were made
familiar. History was taught as if it were a record of battles only. Swords and coats of mail
decorated the mantelpieces in the school and the latest methods of warfare were studied.

In addition to all these military matters, a great deal of attention must have been given to
acquiring the power of clear and forcible expression in the French language. While Lafayette
can never be included among the great orators of the world, he possessed a wonderfully pellucid
and concise diction. He was a voluminous writer. If all the letters he sent across the ocean
from America could be recovered from the bottom of the Atlantic, there would be enough to make
several large volumes. Sometimes he dispatched as many as thirty letters at one time. He sent
them by way of Spain, by way of Holland, or by any other roundabout route that offered promise
of final delivery. But privateersmen frequently captured the boats that carried them, and very
often the letter-bags were dropped overboard. Still another circumstance deprived the world
of many of his writings. When revolutionists took possession of the Lafayette home in Chaviniac,
they sought in every nook and cranny to find evidence that they would have been glad to use
against these representatives of the nobility. Madame de Lafayette had carefully stuffed all
the letters she could find into the maw of the immense old range in the castle kitchen. Other
treasures were buried in the garden, there to rot before they could be found again.

Of the extant writings of Lafayette there are six volumes in French, made up of letters and
miscellaneous papers, many of them on weighty subjects, while numerous letters of Lafayette
are to be found among the correspondence of George Washington, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin,
and other statesmen and generals of Revolutionary days.

Of the English language Lafayette's knowledge was mainly gained during the six long weeks of
his first voyage to America. And what he acquired he at once put into practice. He learned
the language from books, and from good books. As a result his English, both spoken and written,
had a special polish.

At the Collège du Plessis Lafayette was an industrious student. All his life he regarded time
as a gift of which the best use was to be made, and, according to his own expression, he was
"not at liberty to lose it himself, and still less to be the occasion of the loss of it to
others." Therefore he would not, unless it was absolutely unavoidable, be unpunctual to engagements,
or keep people waiting his pleasure. As a boy in college he never had to be urged to study;
neither was he in any way an unmanageable boy. In spite of the intensity of his nature, he
never deserved to be chastised.

It should be understood that corporal chastisement was the rule in the schools of that time.
In the year 1789 one simple-hearted old school-master solemnly reported that during the fifty
years of his experience as teacher he administered nine hundred thousand canings, twenty thousand
beatings, one hundred thousand slaps, and twenty thousand switchings. Among smaller items he
mentions ten thousand fillips and a million and a quarter raps and hits. He hurled a Bible,
a catechism, or a singing-book at some hapless child twelve thousand times, and caused seven
hundred to kneel on peas as a punishment. Then he punished eight hundred thousand for not learning
their lessons and seventy-six thousand for not learning their Bible verses. So much for one
teacher a half century before Lafayette's day! And people still talk and write about "the good
old times"!

The surroundings of Lafayette during his youth must have been of a kind to develop strength
of character. He was to be one of the historical personages against whom scandalmongers have
not been able to unearth a mass of detraction. His close companions during army days testified
that they never heard him swear or use gross language of any kind. As Edward Everett in his
great eulogy said, from Lafayette's home, his ancestry, his education, his aristocratic marriage,
and his college life, he "escaped unhurt."

Lafayette's mother took up her residence in Paris in order to be near her son. She allowed
herself to be presented at court that she might be in touch with what was going on and give
her boy all the aid possible. She saw to it that her uncle should place him in the army lists
that he might secure the advantage of early promotion.

After a while the tall boy was entered in the regiment of the Black Musketeers, and it became
a favorite occupation of his to watch the picturesque reviews of those highly trained soldiers.
This entertainment was for holidays, however, and did not interfere with his studies.

It was not for very many years that Lafayette was to profit by his highborn mother's devoted
care and foresight. In 1770, when her son was only thirteen years old, she died in Paris. In
a painting on the walls of the château to-day the face of that aristocratic lady shines out
in its delicate beauty. A pointed bodice of cardinal-colored velvet folds the slender form
and loose sleeves cover the arms. In the romantic fashion of the pre-revolutionary period,
the arm is held out in a dramatic gesture, and one tiny, jeweled hand clasps the shepherd's
crook, the consecrated symbol of the story-book lady of that period.

About the time of her death, one of her uncles passed away, leaving to the young student at
the Collège du Plessis a large and valuable estate. This placed Lafayette in a very advantageous
position so far as worldly matters were concerned. His fortune being now princely, his record
at college without blemish, his rank unexceptionable among the titles of nobility, he was quickly
mentioned as an eligible partner in marriage for a young daughter of one of the most influential
families in France,--a family that lived, said one American observer, in the splendor and magnificence
of a viceroy, which was little inferior to that of a king. This daughter was named, in the
grand fashion of the French nobility, Marie-Adrienne-Françoise de Noailles. In her family she
was called simply Adrienne.

Adrienne de Noailles was not old enough to give promise of the greatness of character of which
she later showed herself possessed; but, as it proved, Lafayette found that in her he had a
companion who was indeed to be his good genius. She became the object of the unwavering devotion
of his whole life; and she responded with an affection that was without limit; she gave a quick
and perfect understanding to all his projects and his ideals; she followed his career with
an utterly unselfish zeal; and when heavy sorrows came, her courage and her cleverness were
Lafayette's resource. Her name should appear among those of the world's heroines.

At the time of the proposed alliance, Lafayette was fourteen; the suggested fiancée was scarcely
twelve. Her mother, the Duchess d'Ayen, a woman of great efficiency and of lofty character,
knew that the Marquis de Lafayette was almost alone in the world, with no one to guide him
in his further education or to lend aid in advancing his career. Moreover, she held that to
have so large a fortune was rather a disadvantage than otherwise, since it might be a help
or a hindrance, according to the wisdom of the owner, and she rightly saw that the allurements
of the Paris of 1770 to an unprotected youth of fortune would be almost irresistible. She therefore
refused to allow a daughter of hers to accept the proposal. For several months she withheld
her consent, but at last she relented, on consideration that the young people should wait for
two years before the marriage should take place. This admirable mother, who had carefully educated
and trained her daughters, now took the further education of Lafayette into her care; she soon
became very fond of him and cherished him as tenderly as if he had been her own son.

The marriage took place in Paris on the 11th of April, 1774. It was an affair of great splendor.
There were many grand banquets; there were visits of ceremony, with new and elaborate toilettes
for each visit; there were numberless beautiful presents, the families represented and their
many connections vying with each other in the richness and fineness of their gifts. Diamonds
and jewels in settings of quaint design were among them, and besides all these there were the
ancestral jewels of Julie de la Rivière, the mother of Lafayette, to be received by the new
bride, and by her handed down to her descendants.

The arrangement was that the wedded pair should make their home with the mother of the bride,
the young husband paying eight thousand livres a year as his share of the expense. The sumptuous
home was the family mansion of the Noailles family; it was situated in the rue St. Honoré,
not far from the palace of the Tuileries, at the corner where the rue d'Alger has now been
cut through. The Hôtel de Noailles it was called, and it was so large that to an observer of
to-day it would appear more like a splendid hotel than like a private residence. When, a few
years after Lafayette's wedding, John Adams was representing the United States in Paris, and
was entertained in this palatial home, he was so amazed that he could not find words in English
or in French to describe the elegance and the richness of the residence. In it were suites
of rooms for several families, for troops of guests, and for vast retinues of servants. The
building measured from six hundred to seven hundred feet from end to end. There were splendid
halls and galleries and arcades. Toward the street the façade was plain but the interior was
decorated with astonishing richness. The inner rooms faced on a garden so large that a small
hunt could be carried on within it, with fox, horses, and hounds, all in full cry. Magnificent
trees waved their branches above the great garden, and rabbits burrowed below.

Here was a delightful place for a few people to pursue beautiful lives. John Adams made a note
of the fact that the Noailles family held so many offices under the king that they received
no less than eighteen million livres (more than three and a half million dollars) income each
year. It must be remembered that the streets of Paris about this time were crowded with a rabble
of beggars. But of this the dwellers in such magical palaces and parks saw but little and thought
less.

Conditions such as these give a hint of the causes that led to the French Revolution and explain
in some degree why thoughts of liberty, fraternity, and equality were haunting the minds of
the youth of France, and, to some of the more open-minded among them, suggesting dreams of
noble exploit.

CHAPTER III

A BOY'S IDEALS

By this time Lafayette was a tall, slender young fellow, of commanding height, and with a look
of piercing and imperative sincerity in his clear, hazel eyes. His hair was red--some one in
the family used to call him "the big boy with red hair"; but hero worshipers need have no misgivings
about this characteristic, nor feel that they must apologize for it as a defect. Lafayette
said of himself that he was an awkward boy. It may be that the youth who was rapidly growing
to a height of "five feet eleven" may have felt, as most boys do at that age, as if he were
all hands and feet. But that Lafayette was really awkward--it is unthinkable! Not one single
lady of all the beauties in France and America, who handed it down to her descendants that
she "once danced with Lafayette," ever mentioned the fact that her partner lacked any element
of grace, while many speak of the ease of manner and address of the distinguished man. One
friend of Lafayette's early days reports that he was too tall to make a distinguished appearance
on horseback or to dance with special grace; but this was said in a period when the dancing-master's
art was the ideal of social conduct. Those who did not know Lafayette very well at this time
thought him cold and serious and stiff. Perhaps he was shy; yet beneath that calm exterior
seethed a volcano of emotion of which no casual onlooker dreamed.

Lafayette was fortunate in having a cousin, the Count de Ségur, who understood him and who
realized that under that surface of gravity was hidden, as he said, "a spirit the most active,
a character the most firm, a soul the most burning with passionate fervor."

After his marriage Lafayette continued his studies at the Collège du Plessis, and later he
spent a year at the military academy at Versailles, that his education as an officer might
be complete.

In the summer his inclinations led him to make various journeys to the fortified city of Metz,
where the regiment "de Noailles" was in garrison under the charge of the Prince de Poix who
was a brother-in-law of Adrienne, Lafayette's wife. On his way back from one of these visits
he stayed at Chaillot for a time and there was inoculated for smallpox. This preventive method
was a medical novelty at that time. To submit to the experiment showed a great freedom from
prejudice on the part of the youth. The Duchess d'Ayen had once suffered from the ravages of
this disease, so she could safely stay with the now adored son-in-law through this disagreeable
period of seclusion.

Soon after this the youthful Marquis de Lafayette and his shy girl bride were presented at
court. The benevolent king, Louis XVI, was then reigning. The queen, Marie Antoinette, was
the head of a social life that was elaborately formal and splendid. Marie Antoinette herself
was young and light-hearted, and was at this time without fears from misadventure at the hands
of the state or from any personal enemies. The king had thousands of servants and attendants
in his military and personal households. A court scene was a display of knots of ribbon, lace
ruffles, yellow and pink and sky-blue satin coats, shoes with glittering buckles, red-painted
heels, and jeweled trimmings. Fountains threw their spray aloft, and thousands of candles flung
radiance broadcast. Said Chateaubriand, "No one has seen anything who has not seen the pomp
of Versailles." And no one dreamed that the end was nearing, or realized that no nation can
live when the great mass of the people are made to toil, suffer, and die, in order that a favored
few may have luxuries and amusement.

Into this Vanity Fair the young Marquis de Lafayette was now plunged. The grand world flowed
to the feet of the Marquis and Marchioness de Lafayette. More than that, the queen at once
took the tall, distinguished-looking young chevalier into the circle of her special friends.
The circle included some who were to follow Lafayette in his adventure to the New World in
aid of American independence, and some who were to follow in another long procession equally
adventurous and as likely to be fatal--the Revolution in their own country. During the Terror
some of them, including their beautiful and well-meaning queen, were to lose their lives. Of
any such danger as this, these young nobles, in the present state of seemingly joyous and abundant
prosperity, were farthest from dreaming.

On the whole, however, court life did not have much charm for Lafayette. It was a part of the
duty of the Marquis and Marchioness de Lafayette to take part in the plays and merrymakings
that centered about a queen who loved amusement only too well. But Lafayette could not throw
his whole heart into the frivolity of the social sphere in which he was now moving. There were
features of life at court that he could not tolerate. His knee would not crook; he already
knew, as Everett said, that he was not born "to loiter in an antechamber."

It was liberty itself--the revolt against tyranny in every realm of life--that interested him
from the first. Lafayette was against whatever stood for tyranny, against whatever appeared
to be an institution that could foster despotism. He believed that the well-being of society
would be advanced by giving the utmost freedom to all, high and low, educated and uneducated.
He saw a world in chains only waiting for some hero to come along and strike off the fetters.

Where did Lafayette, a born aristocrat, get these ideas? Certainly not from the peasants as
they knelt beside the road when he, their prospective liege lord, rode by. He was brought up
to believe that it was the sacred privilege of the ruling class to throw largesse to the poor,
who stood aside, waiting and expectant, to receive the gifts.

It is hard to say where Lafayette imbibed his love of freedom. One might as well ask where
that "wild yeast in the air" comes from that used to make the bread rise without "emptins."
There was a "wild yeast in the air" in the France of 1760 and 1770, and all the young people
of that country, whether highborn or lowborn, were feeling the ferment.

If Lafayette had pursued the course that his circumstances urged, he would soon have crystallized
into a narrow, subservient character, without purpose or ideals. By all the standards of his
time, he would be thought to be throwing away his life if he should take steps to alienate
himself from the glittering, laughing, sympathetic friends who stood about him at court. All
advancement for him appeared to be in line with the influences there. But if he had done this,
if he had followed the star of court preferment, he would have remained only one of many highly
polished nonentities--and would have lost his head at last. By throwing away his life, by choosing
the way of self-sacrifice, he won the whole world; by throwing away his world, the natural
world of compliance and ease about him, he won a world, nay, two worlds. He became what Mirabeau
named him, the "hero of two worlds."

CHAPTER IV

THE GREAT INSPIRATION

In the summer of 1775 Lafayette was stationed at the French garrison of Metz, where the Prince
de Poix commanded the regiment "de Noailles." While he was there the Duke of Gloucester, brother
of George III, king of England, came to that city and was present at a dinner given in his
honor at the house of the governor of the garrison, the Count de Broglie. This count was a
person of great sympathy and discernment. He had been observing the tall, red-haired boy of
quiet, assured manner and few words, who represented so distinguished a family and gave so
great promise for a future career. Eighteen years before he had seen this boy's father fall
in battle, so he had a special interest in him. He now included young Lafayette among the guests
at the dinner.

It appears that the Duke of Gloucester had just received letters from England telling about
the revolt of the American colonies against the British government--about their prejudice in
the little matter of a tax on tea, and about the strong measures to be taken by the English
ministry to crush the rebellion. As the Duke of Gloucester was not on very good terms with
his brother, King George, he told the story with somewhat vindictive glee.

This was probably the first that Lafayette had heard of American independence. Instantly his
sympathy was touched to the quick. All the warlike and chivalric sentiments that he had inherited,
all that had been carefully instilled by family tradition and by education, rose at once to
the highest intensity. To the long and eager conversations that followed the news brought by
the guest of the evening, Lafayette eagerly listened, and afterwards requested the duke to
explain the situation more fully. His curiosity was deeply excited, his heart was at once enlisted.
The idea of a people fighting against oppression stirred his imagination. From what he learned
from the duke, the cause appealed to his sense of justice; it seemed the noblest that could
be offered to the judgment of man. Before he left the table he had determined in his own mind
to go to America and offer himself to the people who were struggling for freedom and independence.

From that moment his purpose was fixed. To realize his design he must go at once to Paris.
Arriving there, he confided his plan to his two friends, the Viscount de Noailles and the Count
de Ségur, inviting them to share his project. Noailles had just turned nineteen, and Ségur
was twenty-two; Lafayette was eighteen. But the youngest differed from the others in one respect;
he had already come into his fortune, and controlled an income of about two thousand livres,
an amount that in purchasing power represented a fortune such as few young men in any country
or at any time have commanded. The others could contribute nothing to Lafayette's plans but
cordial sympathy. They did indeed go so far as to consult their parents, expressing their desire
to join in Lafayette's chivalrous adventure, but their parents promptly and emphatically refused
consent.

The surprise of the Noailles family can be imagined when they heard that the quiet, reserved
youth had suddenly decided to cross the sea and take up the fragile cause of a few colonists
revolting against a great monarchy. It was not long before all came to admit that the soul
of the big boy had in it a goodness and a valor that nothing could daunt.

Many, however, who heard about the project Lafayette entertained felt a new admiration for
the spirited boy. One of these smartly said that if Madame de Lafayette's father, the Duc d'Ayen,
could have the heart to thwart such a son-in-law, he ought never to hope to marry off his remaining
daughters! It made no difference to this lordly family that the tidings of the American revolt
were echoing through Europe and awakening emotions that those monarchies had never experienced
before; nor did they notice that the young nobility of France were feeling the thrill of a
call to serve in a new cause. They were blind to those signs of the times; and no one dared
to speak of them to the Duke d'Ayen, for he, with the other ruling members of the family, violently
opposed Lafayette's plan.

While these things were going on, word came that those audacious colonists had carried their
project so far as to issue a Declaration of Independence of the British government and to set
up for themselves as a nation. The Noailles family were amazed, but they could not change their
point of view.

Not being able to unravel all the threads of destiny that were enmeshing him, Lafayette was
working in the dark, only knowing that he wanted to go, and that he could not bring himself
to give up the project. He knew also that he must depend solely upon himself. Then there came
into his mind the motto that he had since boyhood seen upon the shield of one of his famous
ancestors in the castle at Chaviniac--"Cur non," Why not? He adopted this motto for his own
and placed it as a device upon his coat of arms, that it might be an encouragement to himself
as well as an answer to the objections of others.

Lafayette consulted his commander and relative, the Count de Broglie. He on his part did all
he could to dissuade the lad; he pointed out that the scheme was Utopian; he showed up its
great hazards; he said that there was no advantage to be had in going to the aid of those insignificant
rebels--that there was no glory to be gained. Lafayette listened respectfully and said that
he hoped his relative would not betray his confidence; for, as soon as he could arrange it,
go to America he would!

These things made no impression upon the determination of the young hero, and the Count de
Broglie was in despair. When he finally found, however, that the boy's determination was fixed,
he entered into his plans with almost paternal tenderness. Though he would give him no aid,
he introduced him to the Baron de Kalb who was also seeking an opportunity to go to America,
and he thought his age and experience would be of value to the young adventurer.

This Baron de Kalb was an officer in the French army with the rank of lieutenant colonel. He
was a man of fifty-five, who had served in the Seven Years' War and who had been employed by
the French government ten years before to go secretly to the American colonies in order to
discover how they stood on the question of their relations with England.

At that time there was a representative of the colonies in Paris to whom all who felt an interest
in American liberty had recourse. This man was Silas Deane. To him Lafayette secretly went.

"When I presented to Mr. Deane my boyish face," said Lafayette later in life, "I dwelt more
(for I was scarcely nineteen years of age) upon my ardor in the cause than on my experience."

Naturally, for he had had no experience whatever. But he could speak of the effect that his
going would have upon France, since because of his family and connections notice would surely
be taken of his action. This might influence other young men and might win favor for the colonies
in their struggle. Silas Deane was quick to see this and to draw up an agreement which he asked
Lafayette to sign. It was as follows:

"The wish that the Marquis de Lafayette has shown to serve in the army of the United States
of North America and the interest that he takes in the justice of their cause, making him wish
for opportunities to distinguish himself in the war, and to make himself useful to them as
much as in him lies; but not being able to obtain the consent of his family to serve in a foreign
country and to cross the ocean, except on the condition that he should go as a general officer,
I have believed that I could not serve my country and my superiors better than by granting
to him, in the name of the very honorable Congress, the rank of Major-General, which I beg
the States to confirm and ratify and to send forward his commission to enable him to take and
hold rank counting from to-day, with the general officers of the same grade. His high birth,
his connections, the great dignities held by his family at this court, his disinterestedness,
and, above all, his zeal for the freedom of our colonies, have alone been able to induce me
to make this promise of the said rank of Major-General, in the name of the United States. In
witness of which I have signed these presents, done at Paris, this seventh of October, seventeen
hundred and seventy-six."

To this startling document the undaunted boy affixed the following:

"To the above conditions I agree, and promise to start when and how Mr. Deane shall judge it
proper, to serve the said States with all possible zeal, with no allowance nor private salary,
reserving to myself only the right to return to Europe whenever my family or my king shall
recall me; done at Paris this seventh day of October, 1776.

(signed) "THE MARQUIS DE LAFAYETTE."

About this time Dr. Benjamin Franklin was added to the group of American envoys. He was an
instant success in the Parisian world. With his baggy coat, his coonskin cap, and his one-eyed
spectacles, Franklin was the admired of all the grand ladies of the court, while his ability
to "bottle lightning" was a favorite topic for discussion. The queen favored Franklin and the
American cause; the king also; but neither dared to say so openly lest the spies of England,
France's hereditary enemy, should find it out. Lafayette was obliged to preserve the utmost
secrecy in making his arrangements and to secure the interviews in such a way that no one would
suspect what he was planning.

Unfortunately, bad news began to come from America. The disasters of Long Island and White
Plains had befallen, and the English army was being reënforced by regiments of Hessians. This
news destroyed what credit the colonies had in France. No one now had any hope for their endeavors,
and no one could be found who would consider fitting out a vessel for Lafayette and his friends.

The American envoys thought it no more than right to tell this to the eager Lafayette and to
try to dissuade him from his project to go to America. To this end they sent him word to come
for another secret conference. He did so, and the envoys explained to him the discouraging
situation.

One of the points wherein this young Lafayette approached nearest to greatness was in the way
he could face some black disaster, and, with an absolutely quenchless spirit and the most adroit
cleverness, turn the disaster into an advantage. This happened when Lafayette went to see these
envoys. He received the news with a brow of unruffled calm. He thanked Mr. Deane for his kindness
in trying to save him from disaster. Then he added: "Until now, Sir, you have only seen my
ardor in your cause; I may now prove to be really useful. I shall myself purchase a ship to
carry out your officers. We must show our confidence in the future of the cause, and it is
especially in the hour of danger that I wish to share your fortunes."

This reply cast another light upon the circumstances. The American envoys regarded the enthusiasm
of the young nobleman with approbation; the plan was pressed forward, preparations were made
to find a vessel, to buy it, and fit it out. All this had to be done secretly, as the eagerness
of Lafayette called for haste.

Meantime, a plan had been made for Lafayette to go on a visit to England with his relative,
the Prince de Poix. It would be better not to interfere with the arrangement already made,
it was thought; though Lafayette was impatient to carry out his plan for embarking, he wisely
agreed to visit England first. In this plan Mr. Deane and Dr. Franklin concurred.

Lafayette made the journey with the Prince de Poix, and for three weeks had a busy time, being
richly entertained and observing English life. He was in a rather delicate situation, for he
was now a guest among a people with whom in one respect he could not sympathize and toward
whom he entertained a hostile feeling. But in all he did he carefully drew the line between
the honor of the guest and the attitude of the diplomatist. Though he went to a dance at the
house of Lord Germain, minister of the English colonies, and at that of Lord Rawdon, who had
but just come from New York, and though he made the acquaintance of the Clinton whom he was
soon to meet on opposing sides of the battle line at Monmouth, he chivalrously denied himself
the pleasure and profit of inspecting the fortifications and seaports where ships were being
fitted out to fight the American rebels. More than that; he openly avowed his feelings about
the hazardous and plucky attempt of the colonies to free themselves from England; and he frankly
expressed his joy when news of their success at Trenton was received. This very spirit of independence
in the young French noble made him all the more a favorite among the English who, together
with their king, did not in the least dream that the foolish rebels across the sea could accomplish
anything by their fantastic revolt.

Among other acquaintances made in England at this time was one Fitzpatrick, whose life was
to be strangely mingled with Lafayette's in later days. Fighting on opposite sides of the conflict
in America, they were yet to meet cordially between battles, and Lafayette was to send letters
in Fitzpatrick's care to his wife in France--letters in which he took pains to inclose no matters
relating to the war, since that would have been unsportsmanlike; still later, owing to a tragic
concurrence of events, this even-minded and generous Englishman was to make persistent appeals
to the English government to take measures to free Lafayette from a hateful imprisonment in
an Austrian stronghold, gallant appeals, made, alas, in vain!

As soon as Lafayette could conveniently withdraw from his English hosts he did so, and hurried
back to Paris, where he kept himself as much out of sight as possible until the final preparations
for the voyage were completed. At last all was ready and Lafayette reached Bordeaux where the
boat was waiting. Here swift messengers overtook him to say that his plans were known at Versailles.
Lafayette set sail, but he went only as far as Los Pasajos, a small port on the north coast
of Spain. Here letters of importance awaited the young enthusiast, impassioned appeals from
his family and commands from his king. The sovereign forbade his subject to proceed to the
American continent under pain of punishment for disobedience; instead, he must repair to Marseilles
and there await further orders.

Lafayette knew what this meant. His father-in-law was about to go to Italy and would pass Marseilles
on the way. Lafayette was to be made to go with him on an expedition where he knew he would
be monotonously employed, with no prospect of exercising his energies in any congenial project.
He was not without many proofs as to what might happen to him if he disobeyed these orders
and risked the displeasure of the king. The Bastille was still standing and the royal power
was absolute!

Letters from his wife also made a strong appeal. A little child now brightened their home;
yet the young husband and father must have reflected that his own father had left a young and
beautiful wife; that the young soldier had torn himself away from his home and bride in Chaviniac,
following the lure of arms, and had, but a few weeks before his own son's birth, rushed off
to the battlefield where he ran the risk of returning no more. Why should not the son take
the same risk and leave all for a great cause? To be sure, the father lost in the venture,
but perhaps the son would not. It was in the Lafayette blood to seek for hazard and adventure.
Cur non? Why not?

He was convinced that he would do no harm to any one but himself by following out his purpose,
and he decided not to risk further interference from family or ministry. To get away safely
he adopted a ruse. He started out as if to go to Marseilles; but costuming himself as a courier,
he proceeded instead toward Los Pasajos, where his ship and friends were awaiting him. The
masquerade was successful until he reached St. Jean de Luz where a hairbreadth escape was in
store for him. Here certain officers were watching for Lafayette. The clever daughter of an
innkeeper recognized him as the young nobleman who had passed some days before on the way to
Bordeaux. A sign from Lafayette was enough to keep her from making known her discovery, and
he slept, unrecognized, on the straw in the stable, while one of his fellow-adventurers played
the part of passenger. This is why it has been said that but for the clever wit of an innkeeper's
daughter, Lafayette might have languished for the next few years in the Bastille instead of
spending them gloriously in aiding us to gain our independence.

Lafayette reached Los Pasajos in safety. From the picturesque cliffs back of the harbor he
saw his ship, La Victoire--name of good omen!--lying at anchor. There was the happy meeting
of friends who were to share his adventures and successes in the New World, and on the 20th
of April, 1777, they sailed forth on their voyage.

Two letters followed the enthusiastic fugitive. One was from Silas Deane, who testified to
the American Congress that a young French nobleman of exalted family connections and great
wealth had started for America in order to serve in the American army. He affirmed that those
who censured his act as imprudent still applauded his spirit; and he assured Congress that
any respect shown Lafayette in America would be appreciated by his powerful relations, by the
court, and by the whole French nation.

The other letter was a royal mandate calling upon the American Congress to refuse all employment
whatsoever to the young Marquis de Lafayette. The first letter traveled fast; the second missive
was subjected to intentional delays and did not reach its destination until Lafayette had been
made an officer in the American army.

CHAPTER V

FIRST DAYS IN AMERICA

"Here one day follows another, and what is worse, they are all alike. Nothing but sky and nothing
but water; and to-morrow it will be just the same."

So wrote the restless Lafayette when he had been four weeks on the ship. The time had thus
far been spent, after a sharp affliction of seasickness, in studying books on military science,
and on the natural features of the country he was approaching.

In time land-birds were seen, and he sat down to write to Adrienne a fifteen-hundred-word letter
which should be sent back by the first returning ship.

"It is from very far that I am writing to you, dear heart," he began, "and to this cruel separation
is added the still more dreadful uncertainty of the time when I shall hear from you again.
I hope, however, that it is not far distant, for, of all the many causes that make me long
to get ashore again, there is nothing that increases my impatience like this."

The thought of his little daughter Henriette comes forward again and again. "Henriette is so
delightful that she has made me in love with all little girls," he wrote.

Never did a more gallant company set sail than these young noblemen of France who were following
a course across the sea only a little more northerly than that which Columbus first traced,
and with something of the same high hazard that inspired the great discoverer. Their names
should be remembered by a people that profited by their bravery. Besides the Baron de Kalb,
with his fifty-five years, and the Viscount de Maury (who rode out of Bordeaux as a grand gentleman
while the disguised Lafayette went before as courier), there was Major de Gimat, first aid-de-camp
to Lafayette and always his special favorite, who gave up his horse to his young commander,
thereby saving his life at the battle of Brandywine, and who was wounded in an attack on a
redoubt at Yorktown. Then there was Captain de la Colombe who, after the close of the war in
America, pursued closely the fortunes of Lafayette, following him even into prison. There was
Colonel de Valfort who, in later years, became an Instructor of Napoleon; and Major de Buysson
who was at the battle of Camden and brought word of the eleven wounds that were needed to cause
the death of the intrepid Baron de Kalb. The list included still other names of members of
noble families in France.

Something was indeed happening to the youth of France in 1750 and 1760. A restless ardor, a
love of adventure, a love of glory, together with the bewitchment of that beautiful word "liberty,"
were among the motives that inspired their actions. They went into the military service at
fourteen or even earlier, and were colonels of regiments at twenty-two or twenty-four. They
were "sick for breathing and exploit."

An amusing story is told of one of these adventurous boys. He got into a quarrel with a school-mate
about the real positions of the Athenians and Persians at the battle of Platæa. He even made
a small wager on it and then set out to find whether he had been right or not. He actually
went on foot to Marseilles and from there sailed as cabin-boy to Greece, Alexandria, and Constantinople.
There a French ambassador caught the young investigator and sent him home! Before he was twenty-four,
however, he was in America, covering himself with glory at Germantown and at Red Bank. This
was the kind of youths they were; and many thrilling stories could be told about the lives
of these gallant young Frenchmen.

And how young they were! More than a hundred of the French officers who came to America to
serve in the Revolution were in the early twenties. There were a few seasoned old warriors,
of course, but the majority of them were young. Such were the companions-in-arms of Lafayette,
himself still in his teens.

Lafayette's voyage was not without adventure. He had a heavy ship with but two inferior cannon
and a few guns--he could not have escaped from the smallest privateer. But should they be attacked,
he resolved to blow up the ship rather than surrender. When they had gone some forty leagues,
they met a small ship. The captain turned pale; but the crew were now much attached to Lafayette
and had great confidence in him, and the officers were numerous. They made a show of resistance;
but it proved to be only a friendly American ship.

As they proceeded on their way, Lafayette noticed that the captain was not keeping the boat
due west. He commanded that the point aimed for should be Charleston, South Carolina. The man
was evidently turning southward toward the West Indies, this being the sea-crossing lane at
that time. Lafayette soon found out that the captain had smuggled aboard a cargo which he intended
to sell in a southern port. Only by promising to pay the captain the large sum he would have
made by that bargain did Lafayette succeed in getting him to sail directly to the coast of
the colonies.

After a seven weeks' voyage the coast was near. Unfortunately, it swarmed with hostile English
vessels, but after sailing for several days along the shore, Lafayette met with an extraordinary
piece of good fortune. A sudden gale of wind blew away the frigates for a short time, and his
vessel passed without encountering either friend or foe.

They were now near Charleston; but in order to reach the harbor they were obliged to go ashore
in the ship's yawl to inquire their way and if possible to find a pilot. Lafayette took with
him in the small boat the Baron de Kalb, Mr. Price, an American, the Chevalier de Buysson,
and some of the other officers, together with seven men to row. Night came on as they were
making toward a light they saw on shore. At last a voice called out to them. They answered,
telling who they were and asking for a night's shelter. They were cordially invited to come
ashore and into a house, where they were received with great hospitality by the owner. They
found themselves in the summer residence of Major Benjamin Huger (pronounced as if spelled
Eugee), member of a notable Carolina family having French Huguenot antecedents, who, when he
learned the purpose of the visitors, did everything in his power to make them comfortable and
to further them on their way.

It was one of the curious coincidences that make up so large a part of the story of Lafayette's
life that the first family to meet him on his arrival in this country had in its circle a small
child who, when he grew up, was to take upon himself the dangerous task of rescuing Lafayette
from the prison in which he was unjustly immured. That story will be told in its proper place.

Lafayette was soon in Charleston, making preparations for the long journey to Philadelphia,
where Congress was in session at that time. He was charmed with everything he found.

The Chevalier de Buysson has left us a description of the uncomfortable journey to Philadelphia.
The procession was as follows: first came one of Lafayette's companions in hussar uniform;
next, Lafayette's carriage--a clumsy contrivance which was a sort of covered sofa on four springs;
at the side one of his servants rode as a squire. The Baron de Kalb occupied the carriage with
Lafayette. Two colonels, Lafayette's counselors, rode in a second carriage; the third was for
the aids, the fourth for the luggage, and the rear was brought up by a negro on horseback.
By the time they had traveled four days, the bad roads had reduced the carriages to splinters,
the horses gave out, and buying others took all the ready money. After that the party traveled
on foot, often sleeping in the woods. They were almost dead with hunger; they were exhausted
with the heat; several were suffering from fever. After thirty days of this discouraging travel,
they at last reached Philadelphia.

No campaign in Europe, declared de Buysson, could have been more difficult than this journey;
but, he said, they were encouraged by the bright prospects of the reception they would surely
have when they reached Philadelphia. All were animated by the same spirit, he said, and added,
"The enthusiasm of Lafayette would have incited all the rest of us if any one had been less
courageous than he."

But the reception of these wayworn strangers at the seat of government proved to be rather
dubious. It appeared that at this time Congress was being bothered by many applications from
foreigners who demanded high rank in the American army. The Committee of Foreign Affairs, being
practical men of business, looked askance at men who traveled three thousand miles to help
an unknown people; they did not wholly believe in the disinterested motives of the strangers;
and they allowed Lafayette and his French officers to trail from office to office, presenting
their credentials to inattentive ears.

Finally that sense of power which always buoyed Lafayette's spirit in critical moments came
to his rescue. He determined to gain a hearing. He wrote to Congress a letter in which he said:

"After the sacrifices that I have made in this cause, I have the right to ask two favors at
your hands; one is that I may serve without pay, at my own expense; and the other is that I
may be allowed to serve at first as a volunteer."

Congress was clear-sighted enough to recognize in this letter a spirit quite different from
that which had seemed to actuate some of the foreign aspirants for glory. And by this time
they had received an informing letter from Silas Deane; so they hastened to pass a resolution
(on July 31, 1777) accepting Lafayette's services and "in consideration of his zeal, illustrious
family, and connections," they bestowed on him the rank of Major General in the Army of the
United States.

The second letter with its royal command from Louis XVI might now follow, but it could have
no effect. Lafayette was definitely committed to the American cause to which, as he said in
his answer to Congress, the feelings of his heart had engaged him; a cause whose import concerned
the honor, virtue, and universal happiness of mankind, as well as being one that drew from
him the warmest affection for a nation who, by its resistance of tyranny, exhibited to the
universe so fine an example of justice and courage.

Lafayette's letter to Congress asked that he might be placed as near to General Washington
as possible and serve under his command.

A day or two after this a military dinner was given in Philadelphia which was attended by General
Washington. Lafayette also was invited. That was Lafayette's first introduction to Washington.
Lafayette had admired Washington almost from the time he first heard his name. To the young
Frenchman, the occasion was momentous. He now saw before him a man whose face was somewhat
grave and serious yet not stern. On the contrary, it was softened by a most gracious and amiable
smile. He observed that the General was affable in manner and that he conversed with his officers
familiarly and gayly. General Washington, with his customary prudence, looked closely at the
nineteen-year-old volunteer, and wondered whether the stuff was to be found in that slight
figure and intent gaze that would make a helper of value to the colonies, one whose judgment
and loyalty could be relied upon. It must be that his decision was favorable to the youth,
for after the dinner he drew him aside and conversed with him in the friendliest way. He spoke
with him of his plans and aspirations, showed that he appreciated Lafayette's sacrifices, and
that he realized the greatness of the effort he had made in order to bring aid to the colonies.
Then Washington invited him to become one of his military family, which offer Lafayette accepted
with the same frankness with which it was made.

Perhaps Lafayette was in a mood to be pleased, for in spite of the assailing mosquitoes at
night and the many difficulties he had to overcome, everything he saw in America gave him great
satisfaction.

CHAPTER VI

LAFAYETTE AT THE BRANDYWINE

When Lafayette joined the army at Washington's headquarters, a few miles north of Philadelphia,
he was very much surprised by what he saw. Instead of the ample proportions and regular system
of European encampments, with the glitter and finish of their appointments; instead of feather-trimmed
hats and violet-colored facings, with marching and countermarching in the precision and grace
of a minuet, he saw a small army of eleven thousand men, poorly clad, with nothing that could
by the utmost courtesy be called a uniform, and woefully lacking in knowledge of military tactics.

But Lafayette had on his rose-colored spectacles. The pitiful condition of the American soldiers
awakened nothing but sympathy in his heart--never any contempt. In spite of their disadvantages,
he perceived that they had in them the making of fine soldiers, and that they were being led
by zealous officers.

Lafayette, now a major general in the American army, attended the councils of war and stood
by Washington when he reviewed the troops. When the General took occasion to speak rather apologetically
of the deficiencies in his little army, suggesting that Lafayette must feel the difference
between these untrained soldiers and those he was accustomed to see, Lafayette had the self-possession
and tact to answer that he had come to America to learn, not to teach. This answer charmed
Washington and endeared the young French officer to the whole army.

Washington, having heard that an English fleet was coming up Chesapeake Bay, moved south to
meet the portentous army that he knew would promptly be debarked. On their way south the American
troops had to pass through the city of Philadelphia. In view of the dark forebodings that the
approach of the English was causing in the minds of the people, Washington was desirous that
the soldiers should make as fine an appearance as possible in passing through the city, and
made special regulations for that day. The army was to march in one column through the city;
the order of divisions was stated; each officer without exception was to keep his post with
a certain space between, no more and no less; each brigadier was to appoint patrols to arrest
stragglers from the camp and all others of the army who did not obey this order; the drums
and fifes of each brigade were to be collected in the center of it, and a tune for the quickstep
was to be played; but it must be played with such moderation that the men could keep step to
it with ease.

An army that needed admonitions like these could still awaken enthusiasm from spectators. The
austere commander in chief looked very handsome as he passed; the slim, eager-eyed French major
general rode at his side; every window shone with curious and admiring eyes and the sidewalks
were crowded with applauding citizens. The men could not help catching the spirit of the occasion;
each soldier stuck a sprig of green in his hat to make up as far as possible for the lack of
fine uniforms and military brilliancy.

They were on their way to the place which was to be the scene of the battle of Brandywine,
one of the most disastrous defeats of the Revolution. At the head of Chesapeake Bay the English
had landed a large and finely equipped army, and from that point they threatened Philadelphia.
Washington, with an inferior and poorly furnished force, placed his army in form to receive
the attack at the Birmingham meetinghouse near Chad's Ford on Brandywine Creek, a point about
fifty miles south of Philadelphia.

Lafayette accompanied General Washington to the battle. His rank of major general gave him
no command. Practically, he was a volunteer. But when he saw that the American troops were
in danger of defeat before the superior English force, he asked to be allowed to go to the
front. He plunged into the midst of the panic that followed the failure of the American line
to stand up before the galling fire of the well-trained British soldiers. The retreat was rapidly
becoming a panic. At this point Lafayette sprang from his horse and rushed in among the soldiers;
by starting forward in the very face of the enemy and calling the disorganized men to follow,
he did all in his power to induce the men to form and make a stand. It was impossible. The
odds were too great against the Americans. Lafayette and the other generals waited until the
British were within twenty yards of them before they retired.

But at the height of the confusion, when Lafayette was too excited to notice it, a musket ball
struck his left leg just below the knee. Of this he was unconscious until one of the generals
called his attention to the fact that blood was running over the top of his boot. Lafayette
was helped to remount his horse by his faithful aid, Major de Gimat, and insisted on remaining
with the troops until the loss of blood made him too weak to go further. Then he stopped long
enough to have a bandage placed on his leg.

Night was coming on. The American troops were going pellmell up the road toward Chester. There
was horrible confusion, and darkness was coming on. At a bridge just south of Chester, the
American soldiers were at the point of complete disorganization. Seeing the great need for
some decisive mind to bring order out of this chaos, Lafayette made a stand and placed guards
along the road. Finally Washington came up and made Lafayette give himself into the hands of
the surgeons. At midnight Washington wrote to Congress, and in his letter he praised the bravery
of the young French soldier. Lafayette had passed his twentieth birthday but four days before.

General Washington was happy to have this French officer proved by test of battle and to find
his favorable judgment more than warranted. He showed the most tender solicitude for his young
friend and gave him into the care of the surgeons with instructions to do all in their power
for him, and to treat him as if he were his own son.

Lafayette's spirits were not in the least dashed. When the doctors gathered round to stanch
the blood, expressing their apprehensions for his safety, he looked at the wound and pluckily
exclaimed,

"Never mind, gentlemen; I would not take fifteen hundred guineas for that."

It was partly this buoyant, merry spirit that made Lafayette win all hearts. To the army he
was now no stranger. His broken English was becoming more and more understandable. But words
were not necessary; the look in his eyes said that he was a fearless and sincere man; that
he had not come to this country to "show off," but from a true love for the principles for
which he had offered his sword. Never was there a more complete adoption than that of Lafayette
by the American army.

Lafayette's first care on reaching Philadelphia was to write to Adrienne lest she should receive
exaggerated news concerning his wound.

"It was a mere trifle," he wrote.

Years afterwards when Lafayette, then an elderly man, revisited our country, he referred to
his wound in these gracious words: "The honor to have mingled my blood with that of many other
American soldiers on the heights of the Brandywine has been to me a source of pride and delight."

After a few days it was thought wise to take the wounded Lafayette to a quieter place. So Henry
Laurens, the President of Congress, who happened to be passing on his way to York, Pennsylvania,
whither Congress had removed, took him in his traveling carriage to Bethlehem, where dwelt
a community of Moravians, in whose gentle care Lafayette was left for the four wearisome weeks
of convalescence.

"Be perfectly at ease about me," he wrote Adrienne.

At last Lafayette was well enough to go into service again. He requested permission this time
to join General Greene who was making an expedition into New Jersey in the hope of crippling
the force of Lord Cornwallis. Lafayette was given command of a detachment of three hundred
men, and with these he reconnoitered a situation Lord Cornwallis was holding at Gloucester
opposite Philadelphia. Here he came so near to the English that he could plainly see them carrying
provisions across the river to aid in the projected taking of the city, and he so heedlessly
exposed himself to danger that he might easily have been shot or imprisoned if the English
had been alert. By urgent entreaty he was called back. After gaining this information, he met
a detachment of Hessians in the service of the British army, and though they numbered more
than his own detachment, he succeeded in driving them back. In the management of this enterprise
he showed great skill, both in the vigor of his attack and in the caution of his return. He
took twenty prisoners. General Greene, in reporting to Washington, said that Lafayette seemed
determined to be found in the way of danger.

General Washington was now convinced that the titled volunteer could be trusted with a command.
He wrote to Congress as follows:

"It is my opinion that the command of troops in that state cannot be in better hands than the
Marquis's. He possesses uncommon military talents; is of a quick and sound judgment; persevering
and enterprising, without rashness; and besides these, he is of a conciliating temper and perfectly
sober,--which are qualities that rarely combine in the same person. And were I to add that
some men will gain as much experience in the course of three or four years as some others will
in ten or a dozen, you cannot deny the fact and attack me on that ground."

On this recommendation, Lafayette was appointed to the command of a division composed entirely
of Virginians. Needless to say he was overjoyed; for though the division was weak in point
of numbers, and in a state of destitution as to clothing, he was promised cloth for uniforms
and he hoped to have recruits of whom he could make soldiers.

When Lafayette enlisted in the American army, he was not to lack for companionship. John Laurens
had come from his study of history and military tactics at Geneva and, leaving his young wife
and child behind, even as Lafayette had done, had rushed home to serve his country in her need.
Alexander Hamilton was now both military aid and trusted adviser and secretary to General Washington.
These three young men, all boys at the same time in different quarters of the globe, had come
together while still in early youth and were entering into the great work of the American Revolution.

CHAPTER VII

A SUCCESSFUL FAILURE

It was on the 20th of December that Lafayette received the joyful news of the birth of a second
daughter. She was named Anastasie. The whole camp shared in the happiness of the young father.
In fact, the affairs of the young hero interested everybody so much that there was indeed some
danger that he would be spoiled. And he certainly would have been but for the balance of good
judgment and mental poise that offset youthful rashness and vanity.

At about the same time, in a long letter to his father-in-law, he explained the course of action
he had marked out for himself.

This was Lafayette's real spirit and his secret counsel to himself; and we can but wonder that
a young man so impetuous, so enthusiastic, one who had had the courage to start out on this
hazardous enterprise, should have combined with those qualities so cool and steady a judgment
and so rigid a self-control. But it was just this combination of qualities that led Lafayette
on to his successes.

There was, however, severe discipline in store for him. His strength of purpose was to be put
to a sharp test. This came about in two ways: first, in the stern ordeal of the winter at Valley
Forge, and afterwards in the expedition into the wilderness north of Albany.

Everybody knows what the hardships of the American army were in those dark days of the Revolution,
the winter of 1777-78. Washington had suffered defeat and disaster; but he, like his faithful
followers, was of the temper that could not be depressed. At Valley Forge the men built a city
of wooden huts, and these afforded at least a shelter from the storms, though they were scarcely
better than dungeons. Their sufferings were terrible. They were inadequately clothed; many
had neither coats, hats, shirts, nor shoes; they were in want of food; illness followed. Many
had to have feet or legs amputated because of the effects of freezing. Lafayette had to see
all this, and to him their patient endurance seemed nothing short of miraculous.

He even tried to make merry a little over their sad situation, and over the nearness of the
British army, for he wrote to his wife, "I cannot tell whether it will be convenient for General
Howe to make us a visit in our new settlement; but we shall try to receive him with proper
consideration if he does."

For the moment the American cause was under a cloud. Should Lafayette return to France now?
If he did, this would have been the interpretation of his act--he had lost faith in the American
undertaking. This belief would have been heralded throughout the British army and would soon
have been echoed in France. Lafayette did not wish to shoulder the responsibility of the effect
his withdrawal might have on the hopes of help from French sympathy and French resources, and
on the determination of other recruits who might come over and bring aid. He decided to remain
with Washington and the American army and share whatever fate might be theirs. So Lafayette
courageously remained. Accustomed to a life of luxury, he nevertheless adapted himself at once
to the melancholy conditions at Valley Forge.

There was a strange surprise awaiting Lafayette when he came to know the American situation
more intimately. Before he left Europe, his sincere mind had clothed the cause of liberty in
this country in the most rosy colors. Before leaving France he thought that all good Americans
were united in one mind, and that confidence in the commander in chief was universal and unbounded;
he now believed that if Washington were lost to America, the Revolution would not survive six
months. He found that there were open dissensions in Congress; that there were parties who
hated one another; people were criticizing without knowing anything about war methods; and
there were many small jealousies. All this disheartened him greatly; he felt that it would
be disastrous if slavery, dishonor, ruin, and the unhappiness of a whole world should result
from trifling differences between a few jealous-minded men.

After a time the disaffected ones in the army tried to win Lafayette from his close allegiance
to Washington. They entertained him with ideas of glory and shining projects--a clever way
to entice him into their schemes. Deceived for a time, he received their proffers of friendship
and their flattering compliments, but when he noted that some of them were able to speak slightingly
and even disrespectfully of the commander in chief, he dashed the temptation away with absolute
contempt.

Filled with the desire to ward off all possible peril from an influence which he knew would
disrupt the American cause, he impetuously started in to help. He sought an interview with
Washington, but not finding an early opportunity for this, he wrote him a long and noble letter
which has been preserved.

In answer to this impulsive and true-hearted letter, General Washington wrote one of the most
distinctive and characteristic of all the hundreds of letters of his that are preserved.

It must have been welcome to the harassed heart of the man who stood at the head of so great
a cause to receive the proofs of this young man's friendship and of his absolutely loyal support.

The political conspiracy developed into what is known in history as the "Cabal." Thwarted in
their attempt to draw into their interests the man whose importance to them, as representing
in an unofficial way the French influence in America, was fully appreciated, they hatched a
scheme that should remove him from the side and from the influence of Washington. This scheme
consisted of a project on paper to send an expedition into Canada, in order to win the people
there to join the American revolt, if possible to do so, by persuasion or by force. The plan
had many features that appealed to Lafayette.

The conspirators of the Cabal had carried a measure in Congress to give Lafayette the promise
of an independent command, and the commission for this was inclosed to General Washington.
He handed it to the major general, who had so lately joined the army as a volunteer, with the
simple words, "I would rather they had selected you for this than any other man."

But Lafayette loyally put aside the tempting prospect of winning personal glory in the Old
World and the New by this expedition, and declined to receive any commission from Congress
that would make him independent of Washington. He would serve only as a subordinate of the
commander in chief, as one detailed for special duties. He wished to be called "General and
Commander of the Northern Army," not commander in chief. Congress accepted the condition.

It was in this way, then, that Lafayette received the title of "General," a distinction that
he valued more than that of Marquis, and that to the end of his days he preferred above all
other titles.

With characteristic enthusiasm Lafayette proceeded to York, where Congress was then assembled,
and where the members of the conspiracy were living in comfort that contrasted curiously with
the conditions surrounding General Washington at Valley Forge. At a dinner given while Lafayette
was there, the northern expedition and Lafayette's brilliant prospects were made themes of
praise. But Lafayette missed one name from the list of toasts; at the end of the dinner he
arose and, calling attention to the omission, he proposed the name of the commander in chief.
In silence the men drank the toast; they had learned by this time that the young French noble
was made of unmanageable material.

With a heart, however, for any fate, Lafayette started on the long, wearisome journey northward.
There were rivers deep and swift to cross; the roads were bad and the wintry storms made them
worse. Floating ice crowded the fords. Rain and hail and snow and slush made up a disheartening
monotony.

It certainly was dismal. On his way north the young general was made happy, however, by receiving
a "sweet parcel of letters," telling him that his family were very well and that they were
keeping in loving remembrance the man who was called in France, "The American Enthusiast."
This warmed his heart as he plodded northward through the storm.

On Lafayette's arrival at Albany, he found that none of the promises made to him as to supplies,
available men, money, and other necessary equipment had been kept; and the judgment of advisers
who knew the difficulties of a northern excursion in the depth of winter was against the expedition.
Lafayette was exasperated and wrote frantic letters to Washington, to Congress, and to Henry
Laurens.

But it was of no avail. The expedition had to be given up. Lafayette remained at Albany during
the months of February and March, giving his personal credit to pay many of the men and to
satisfy other demands, and taking up various duties and projects. For one thing, he went up
the Mohawk River to attend a large council of the Iroquois Indians. This was Lafayette's first
official contact with the red men, and he at once manifested a friendship for them and an understanding
of their nature that won their hearts. He sent one of his French engineers to build a fort
for the Oneidas, and he was present at a grand treaty ceremony. A band of Iroquois braves followed
Lafayette southward and later formed part of a division under his command.

It was a discomfited but not a despairing young warrior who returned in April to Valley Forge.
But joy was before him. The Cabal had vanished before the storm of loyalty to Washington that
gathered when the conspiracy was discovered. Better still, on the 2d of May came the great
news that a treaty of commerce and alliance had been signed between France and the United States
of America.

This event caused a wild wave of joy to spread over the whole country. This treaty assured
the permanence of the United States as a nation. To be sure, the war with England must still
be carried on, but now that France was an ally they would have more hope and courage.

In the doleful camp at Valley Forge there was the sincerest gratification and delight. A national
salute of thirteen cannon was ordered; a thanksgiving sermon was preached; a fine dinner was
served for the officers, and the table was made more delightful by the presence of Mrs. Washington,
Lady Stirling, Mrs. Greene, and other wives and daughters of generals.

Lafayette took part in these scenes of rejoicing, but there was a reason why, underneath it
all, his heart was heavy. Almost with the letters announcing the joyous news of the treaty,
came others telling him of the death, in October, 1777, of his little daughter Henriette, of
whom he had said that he hoped their relationship would be more that of friends than of parent
and child. This happiness was not to be theirs. Lafayette now thought that he had never realized
before what it meant to be so far away from his home. The thought of Henriette and of the grief
of Adrienne, which he was not able by his presence to help assuage, was with him every moment
of the day; but even while his heart was heavy with grief, he felt that he must attend and
bear his part in the public rejoicings.

CHAPTER VIII

LAFAYETTE AT MONMOUTH

The alliance with France put a new color upon every phase of the American contest. If, for
instance, a French fleet should be already on its way across the Atlantic, and should enter
Chesapeake Bay and threaten Philadelphia, the English would have to evacuate that city and
retire to New York, risking the danger of being intercepted on the way by Washington's army.
In view of such a possibility as this, the commander in chief of the American army held a council
of war in which it was decided that they were not strong enough to risk a decisive engagement.
It was, however, highly important that exact information should be gained as to the movements
of the British around Philadelphia. In order that this might be accomplished, General Washington
detached a group of soldiery from among the most able and valued of his army, and put them
under Lafayette, with instructions to proceed into the country between the Delaware and Schuylkill,
and there interrupt communications with Philadelphia, obstruct the incursions of the enemy's
parties, and obtain intelligence of their motives and designs.

Lafayette was overjoyed at being chosen for so important a charge; and on the 24th of May,
1778, he started out with about twenty-two hundred men. His force included the band of Iroquois
warriors who had come from Albany to follow his fortunes, and who, because of their knowledge
of forest-craft, were invaluable as scouts. The British could command about four times as many
soldiers as had been assigned to Lafayette, but their intention was to keep the American force
out of their way and, if possible, to avoid a direct encounter.

For his camp Lafayette selected a piece of rising ground near the eleventh milestone north
of Philadelphia, where there was a church, a grave-yard, and a few stone houses that might
afford some protection in case of attack, and where four country roads led out to the four
points of the compass. The place was called Barren Hill--name of ill-omen! But the fate of
the day proved not altogether unfortunate for the young and intrepid commander.

Naturally, the people in Philadelphia had heard of the approach of the young French noble whose
fame had been ringing in their ears, and they prepared to go out and engage him--capture him,
if possible. At that time they were indulging in a grand, week-long festival, with masquerades,
dancing, and fireworks; and in anticipation of the quick capture of the young French hero,
a special party was invited for the next evening at which the guests were promised the pleasure
of meeting the distinguished prisoner.

Lafayette had chosen his position in a region he had carefully examined. But the English were
able to send bodies of troops up all the traveled approaches to the hill. While Lafayette was
planning to send a spy to Philadelphia to find out, as Washington had directed, what preparations
were there being made, the cry suddenly arose in his camp that they were being surrounded.
It was a terrible moment. But Lafayette had this great quality--the power of being self-possessed
under sudden danger. He did not lose his head, and he instantly thought of a plan of escape.

There was a dilapidated road that his keen eye had detected leading along beneath a high bank
which protected it from observation. He directed the main body of his men to pass down that
old road, while a small number were commanded to make a pretense of a demonstration near the
church; others were to show some false heads of columns along the edge of the forest by the
stone houses. These were withdrawn as the main body of soldiers disappeared down the hidden
road and began to dot the surface of the river with their bobbing heads as they swam across.
Lafayette and his loyal aid-de-camp, Major de Gimat, brought up the rear with the remainder
of the men, whom they transferred across the river without loss. Then they formed on the farther
bank and determined to contest the ford if the British followed. But the British had marched
up the hill from the two opposite sides, simply meeting each other at the top; they then marched
down again and did not seem to be in any mind to pursue their enemy further.

The only real encounter of that serio-comic day's adventures took place between the band of
Iroquois and a company of Hessians in the pay of the British. The Indians were concealed in
the brush at the side of the road when the Hessians, with waving black plumes in their tall
hats and mounted on spirited horses, came along. The Indians rose as if from under the ground,
giving their war whoop as they sprang. The horses, unused to this form of war cry, started
back and fled far and wide; and the Indians, never having seen soldiers so accoutered, were
as frightened as if confronted by evil spirits, and swiftly made good their escape from the
impending "bad medicine."

The British carried their chagrin with them back to Philadelphia, and the diners were disappointed
in their guest of honor. Next morning Lafayette returned to the top of Barren Hill, thence
marched back to Valley Forge, and there relieved the anxiety of General Washington who had
feared for his safety.

But the incident of Barren Hill, while it was not in any way an engagement, must be looked
upon as a serious matter after all, for it gave Lafayette an opportunity to show that he was
cool and self-possessed in a critical moment, and that he was clever and resourceful in finding
ways to extricate himself from difficulties--both essential qualities in one who is to be trusted
with great enterprises.

In about a month the anticipated event took place--the British evacuated Philadelphia; and,
with a baggage-train eleven miles long, started northward with the intention of joining forces
with the army at New York.

The question now was whether the army under General Washington should leave Valley Forge and
with their inferior force make an attempt to intercept the British and bring on a battle. Several
councils of war were held; one of special importance at Hopewell, a place north of Valley Forge,
where the project of preparing for attack was earnestly favored by Lafayette, together with
General Greene and Colonel Alexander Hamilton, but violently (and unaccountably at that time)
opposed by General Lee. This council has been made the subject of one of the reliefs on the
celebrated Monmouth Battle Monument. In this design Washington is represented as standing by
the table in the center of the group, while Lafayette is spreading the map before the council
and urging them to make a strong demonstration against the British, even if it should bring
on a battle.

The various generals sit about the table and each expresses in his attitude what his feelings
are in this crisis. Steuben and Duportail (at the extreme left) evidently agree with Lafayette,
and eagerly press for compliance with his plan. General Patterson (seated at the table) is
of the same mind, and so is the true-hearted Greene (seated at the right of Patterson). Brave
Colonel Scammel (between Washington and Lafayette), Washington's Adjutant General, carefully
notes the opinion of each for the guidance of his chief. Back in the shadow sits the treacherous
General Lee, who looks sulky and is evidently planning mischief. The homely rooftree covers
a critical scene in the history of the Revolution.

Finally, Washington turned to General Wayne (behind Greene) and said,

"Well, General, what would you do?"

"Fight, Sir!" crisply replied the ardent and indomitable Wayne--an answer that pleased alike
the commander in chief and the young volunteer major general, to whom it seemed an intolerable
insult that a hostile army should be allowed to march through one's own country unchallenged.

General Lee was determined that the British should be allowed to pass through New Jersey without
molestation. His sympathies were afterwards found to have been entirely with the British. At
any rate, Washington did not follow his advice. He sent out men to fell trees in the enemy's
path, to burn bridges before them, and to harass them as much as possible; and he forwarded
detachments of such size that he needed a major general to take command of that branch of his
army. The position was offered first to General Lee. He refused to take it. General Washington
was then free to offer it to Lafayette, who accepted it with delight.

As these plans were being matured, General Lee suddenly changed his mind and announced that
he would take command of the advance force; and he appealed to Lafayette's generosity to allow
him to do so, even after having once given his refusal. Lafayette unselfishly resigned the
command. It is the opinion of historians that the outcome of the battle of Monmouth would have
been very different if the American side had been left in the capable hands of the young Lafayette.

The battle of Monmouth, which took place on the 28th of June, was widely scattered in its action
over a hot and sandy plain. The outcome was that General Lee first brought his troops face
to face with the enemy, and then, instead of leading on to the attack, gave the order for retreat.
Afterwards, in the court-martial of Lee, it was made evident that the movement of the troops
as ordered by Lee would have left Lafayette and his detachment abandoned in an extremely exposed
position on the open plain, the troops that should have supported him having been withdrawn
by Lee's orders and directed to retreat. Lafayette and the other generals felt great bitterness
on that day because they had been swept into battle but had not been allowed to strike a blow.

Everybody knows how Washington rode up, and when he saw the retreat, how he indignantly reproved
General Lee and commanded the battalions to turn back and form in position for battle. Lafayette
was in command of a division stationed at the second line under Lord Stirling who sustained
the left wing; they were now placed on an eminence behind a morass and there played the batteries
to such good effect that they were able to check the advance of the British. This halt gave
Washington time to place his army to advantage. The British were driven from a strong position
they had taken, and before dark the American troops had turned the British back. That night
they lay upon the field in bright moonlight, and while Washington and Lafayette discussed the
possible outcome of the next day, the British were silently withdrawing from the Monmouth plains.
The next morning all had disappeared except some forty of their wounded. At Sandy Hook, where
the British army crossed to New York, it was learned that they had lost about two thousand
men by desertions and by losses at Monmouth. Many of the soldiers on both sides had died from
the extreme heat on that 28th of June.

During the battle Lafayette was master of himself. Almost fifty years later, Colonel Willett
related that in the hottest of the fight he saw Lafayette ride up to one of the officers and,
in a voice cool, steady, and slow, and with as much deliberation as if nothing exciting prevailed,
say,

"General, the enemy is making an attempt to cut off our right wing; march to his assistance
with all your force."

So saying he galloped off. Colonel Willett remembered that he was exceedingly well mounted,
though plainly dressed, and "very sedate in his air for a Frenchman."

A number of situations arose soon after this in which Lafayette found himself of great use.
The French fleet under Count d'Estaing appeared near Delaware Bay and sailed up the coast.
Washington was at White Plains. The British held New York. It was thought that the French fleet
could accomplish much by going to Newport and there coöperating with the land forces. Lafayette
was given a detachment and commanded to proceed to Providence where he was to stand ready to
give all possible aid.

But he was doomed to still another disappointment. The French fleet arrived off Point Judith
near Newport; visits of ceremony were exchanged by the French and American generals; preparations
were made; but through misunderstandings, the plans never worked out to an actual engagement.
Before anything was accomplished, a severe storm overtook the fleet, and it withdrew to Boston
for necessary repairs.

During this trying time, Lafayette was a trusted resource to Washington, who devoutly wished
to reconcile all differences and to bring peace out of dissension. For this Lafayette had peculiar
qualities, as he understood the character of both the French and the Americans, and believed
absolutely in the good intentions of the officers on both sides. Twice he rode to Boston and
back again to help in settling some difficulty, making on one of those occasions a journey
of seventy miles, at night, in six and a half hours--a feat paralleled only by Sheridan's famous
ride to Winchester.

But the fleet sailed away, bearing many disappointments with it, though much good had been
done by its coming; it meant that the American cause had received definite encouragement from
France.

It was now October of 1778 and autumn weather was closing the campaign of the year. The sending
of the French fleet to our shores had been virtually a declaration that a state of war existed
between France and England, and the thought that this might develop into an actual war in which
Lafayette, after his practical experience and training in the Continental army, could take
part and win glory, inclined him strongly at this point to return to his native land. Permission
was given to him to do this. The proper farewells, official and private, were made, and Lafayette
started on his way to Boston where he was to embark.

But the strain of the summer's excitement and overwork had been too much for Lafayette, and
at Fishkill he was taken ill with a violent fever which prostrated him for some weeks. The
greatest concern was felt for his life; the soldiers' love for him was shown by their great
solicitude, and General Washington called upon him every day.

Lafayette slowly recovered and finally resumed his journey to Boston, where he went on board
the Alliance which the government had given him to take him to France. At the moment of sailing
he sent a letter to General Washington, in which he said:

"Farewell, my dear General. I hope your French friends will ever be dear to you. I hope I shall
soon see you again and tell you myself with what emotions I now leave the land you inhabit,
and with what affection and respect I shall ever be your sincere friend."

They set sail for Havre on the 11th of January, 1779. The voyage was not to be without adventure.
They sailed into the teeth of a terrible three days' storm. Lafayette, as usual, was very seasick,
and, as usual, was much discouraged thereby. For a time glory and fame had no charms for him!
He declared he was surely going where he had wished to send all the English--namely, to the
bottom of the sea!

Still worse was to follow. No sooner was the storm over than another danger loomed up. The
ship's crew included a number of renegade English sailors who conspired to mutiny, to overwhelm
the officers, and to kill the crew and passengers. By including in their confidence an American
sailor, whom they mistook for an Irishman, their plot came to naught. Lafayette summoned the
whole crew, put thirty-three mutineers in chains, and thus saved himself from capture and the
ship from being towed into a British port as a prize. Shortly after this Lafayette brought
the frigate into the harbor of Brest, where he had the pleasure of seeing, for the first time,
the American flag receive the national salute as the symbol of an acknowledged sister nation
in alliance with his native country.

CHAPTER IX

THE RETURN TO FRANCE

When Lafayette learned of the birth of his little daughter Anastasie, whom he now ardently
desired to see, he wrote to his wife:

"What expressions can my tenderness find sufficiently strong for our dear Anastasie? You will
find them in your own heart, and in mine, which is equally open to you.... That poor little
child must supply all that we have lost."

Letters like this would give great consolation to Madame de Lafayette, but alas, they came
at long intervals, since many of her husband's long epistles never reached her. Therefore Adrienne
felt his absence the more keenly, while rumors and exaggerated reports from America made her
days an agony. When, however, he returned to France in February, 1779, her happiness was beyond
all expression.

Adrienne's joy was increased by the fact that while her rash young husband had left his native
land under a cloud, because it was understood that he did so against the command of the king,
his return was that of a conqueror, triumphant and in favor.

He was not allowed, however, wholly to forget his formal error. His appeal to Adrienne for
forgiveness for his absence was one that he had to make to others. His father-in-law testified
in a letter that, so far as he was concerned, the recreant might be freely forgiven. Adrienne
was only too willing to receive the one who had left her to go on a mission to the other side
of the world; but what about the king whose command not to leave the shores of France he had
practically disobeyed? Many a man had been shut up in the Bastille because of a much smaller
offense.

Lafayette was brought to the court at Versailles by his relative, the Prince de Poix. The king
received him and graciously accorded a punishment. He was to suffer imprisonment for the space
of one week--his prison to be the grand residence of his father-in-law, the Hôtel de Noailles!
After that his pardon was to be freely granted by his Majesty, with this warning--that he should
avoid public places for a time lest the people should manifest their admiration for his disobedient
conduct by their applause.

The king's warning was not indeed without reason. But there was no use in trying to keep the
impressionable French people from worshiping a hero after their hearts had been captured by
him. The gallantry and the human-heartedness of Lafayette, as well as the ideals he held--ideals
that were becoming more and more captivating to the fancy and to the reason of the French nation--contributed
to make him the favorite of the hour. A passage from a certain play never failed to receive
enthusiastic applause from the audiences because it was held by all to be susceptible of direct
application to Lafayette; and this passage the queen copied in her own hand because she thought
of him when she read it.

The queen's copy of this passage was given to Madame de Campan, the revered teacher of the
young ladies of the court, and it met the fate of being burned on the very day Marie Antoinette's
sad life came to an end at the hands of the executioner during the height of the Terror.

The queen had shown her interest in Lafayette's arrival by arranging to have an interview with
the young hero when he was making his first visit to Versailles. At her suggestion Lafayette
was now advanced by the king to be commander of an important regiment in the army of France,
the king's own Dragoons. He was stationed at Saintes and afterwards at St. Jean-d'Angely, near
Rochefort, where the regiment was conveniently quartered to be ready in case a project for
the invasion of England by way of the British Channel should be carried out. Such a plan was
under consideration, and Lafayette looked forward with delight to the prospect of action against
the country which he considered the ancient foe of France.

But, to Lafayette's great grief, the plot to invade England failed; and he was now free to
return to Paris and Versailles. The failure of the British plan also made it rather easier
for the minds of prominent officials to look toward taking some further part in the American
struggle. To aid this Lafayette gladly applied himself; for while loyal always to his own nation,
and standing ready at any point to leave all to serve France, he had not for a moment forgotten
the needs of his adopted country across the Atlantic. In fact, when he reached home, he had
not waited for his one week's punishment to be over before beginning to create interest in
the cause for which he had risked his life. Benjamin Franklin, then ambassador to the court
of France from the United States, was promptly allowed, under pretense of calling upon Lafayette's
father-in-law, to visit Lafayette himself.

There was a constant stream of callers coming to see and congratulate him, and never was there
one among them who was permitted to misunderstand the fact that Lafayette wished to move heaven
and earth to secure help for the Continental army in its struggle for freedom. He found himself,
in a more important sense than ever before, the tie between France and America, for he enjoyed
the confidence of both countries.

To Washington he wrote: "If there is anything in France concerning which not only as a soldier
but as a politician, or in any other capacity, I can employ my exertions to the advantage of
the United States, I hope it is unnecessary to say that I shall seize the opportunity and bless
the day which shall render me useful to those whom I love with all the ardor and frankness
of my heart."

Such a visit as this the Marchioness was never to pay. And we can not blame her if, during
her husband's brief visits, she felt like complaining that he absorbed himself in the interests
of the American cause or was always planning fresh enterprises. But though she was now only
nineteen years old, she was proving herself the high-minded woman who could sympathize entirely
with her husband's ideals, and who could consider him dedicated to a great cause; therefore
she could cheerfully lay aside merely selfish wishes. No one ever heard a complaint from her
absolutely loyal lips. In December, 1779, the family was made happy by the birth of a son,
to whom, in honor of his illustrious friend, Lafayette gave the name of George Washington.

Lafayette had many testimonials from his friends in the United States showing their appreciation
of his efforts for them; and among them was one of special import. It consisted of a sword
richly ornamented, with a handle of solid gold, sent to him by the American Congress. To Franklin
was intrusted the pleasant task of providing this rich gift. It was made in Paris and was engraved
with representations of the actions in which Lafayette had taken part, together with his coat
of arms, his chosen motto "Cur non?" and other emblematic designs selected by Franklin; and
Franklin's grandson had the honor of conveying to Lafayette this testimonial of a nation's
appreciation.

"By the help of the exquisite artists of France," graciously wrote Franklin in an accompanying
letter, "I find it easy to express everything but the sense we have of your worth."

Lafayette may have been in a fair way to be spoiled, but if he was he had a happy way of concealing
it.

This beautiful sword was in the course of time to meet with ill luck. When Revolutionists rifled
the Château de Chaviniac, it was buried for safe-keeping and remained thus hidden for many
years. Long afterwards Lafayette's son, George Washington Lafayette, grown to young manhood,
unearthed the treasure and found that the blade was totally rusted away. Lafayette then had
the happy thought of adjusting to this handle of pure gold the blade of a sword that had been
made out of bolts and bars taken from the Bastille. Thus the associations of both worlds and
of two struggles for freedom were united in one historic sword.

There came a time when Lafayette felt himself warranted in presenting a Memoir to the Cabinet
on the subject of giving direct relief to America. His plan, from a military standpoint, was
masterly, and it produced so favorable an impression that it was accepted; and it soon became
known to those worthy to be in the secret that France would send to America a reinforcement
of six ships and six thousand men of the regular infantry. To this was added a loan of three
million livres, and later still, through the appeals of Franklin, another loan of the same
amount was supplied. The Count de Rochambeau, a trained soldier, was chosen to command the
land forces and the Count de Ternay was to be admiral of the fleet. Lafayette was sent ahead
to announce this happy news and to make preparations for the arrival of the expedition.

Wearing the uniform of an American officer, Lafayette took his leave of the king; and on the
4th of March, 1780, he sailed on the frigate Hermione. He reached Boston harbor on the 28th
of April, 1780, after an absence of fifteen months. When word swept through the city that a
ship was coming in with Lafayette on board, the people crowded to the wharf to welcome the
returning French friend of America. This was the beginning of civic processions in Lafayette's
honor. They cheered him from the ship's side to the residence of Governor Hancock where addresses
were listened to and congratulations exchanged. He called upon the Legislature then in session,
and in the evening viewed the illuminations in his honor. Lafayette gave a dinner on board
the ship to which he invited a large number of officials--the president of the Massachusetts
Council, members of the legislature, the consul of France, and other men of dignity. The frigate
was gayly decorated with the flags of many nations. Thirteen toasts were drunk--the number
thirteen cannot have been an unlucky number in those days!--and after the toast to Washington
the great guns boomed seventeen times.

As rapidly as possible Lafayette rode to Washington's headquarters at Morristown, New Jersey,
and made his happy announcement to the General himself. He then pressed on to Philadelphia
to present to Congress the communication from the French government.

The greatest possible effort was now made to equip the Continental army, but the resources
of the country had already been grievously overtaxed. Washington had hardly been able to keep
his army together at all. Half of his six thousand men were unfit for duty. They had sometimes
had no bread for six days; sometimes for two or three days they would have neither meat nor
bread. The commander clearly realized that an army reduced to nothing, without provisions or
any of the necessary means to carry on a war, needed not a little help only--it needed a great
deal.

When, on the 2d of May, the French fleet finally set sail, delays had reduced the number of
soldiers and the amount of supplies. The English by this time had realized what was happening,
and they carefully blockaded the second division of the squadron in the harbor of Brest; and
when the first division reached Newport, the English cleverly surrounded the harbor with their
ships, thus "bottling up" the French and rendering them inactive and useless. In this way the
great good that was expected from the French expedition came to naught.

During all this trying time, Lafayette acted the part of a single-minded friend of both the
French and the American armies. He was sent by Washington to Newport to confer with the French
generals, and later he was present at a joint meeting of the great French and American generals
which was held at Hartford, Connecticut. Lafayette rode from one army to the other, holding
conferences and putting important decisions into writing, or dictating the results of conversations.
Many of these documents have been preserved in French or American state archives.

Whatever time he could get apart from these labors he spent in training the battalion that
had been assigned to him. This was a detachment of light infantry, selected from the best of
the army. He took great pride in training these men, sent to France for black and white plumes
for their caps, and tried to make them present as good an appearance as possible. The Marquis
de Chastellux, who visited his camp on the Ramapo River, has left a delightful description
of this visit in which he spoke of the fine appearance of the troops as their young commander
had drawn them up on a height near his own station. Here, said Chastellux, Lafayette received
his guest with more pride than if he had been entertaining at his estates in Auvergne. "Happy
his country," said Chastellux, "if she employs his services; happier still if she has no use
for them!"

It was during this autumn that Benedict Arnold made what Lafayette called that "horrid compact
with the enemy"--an event that amazed and distressed him beyond any words. Lafayette was with
Washington when the plot was discovered. He was also a member of the board to try the British
spy, André. His attitude toward André was very different from that toward Benedict Arnold.
André, he said, conducted himself in a manner so frank, so noble, and so delicate, that he
could not help feeling infinite sorrow for him.

The winter of 1780-81 was the darkest period of the war. But it was to be followed by a happier
season, one in which Lafayette was at last to have as large a share of action as his heart
could wish.

CHAPTER X

LAFAYETTE IN VIRGINIA

The British still held the city of New York. General Washington's army sat in their impregnable
camps on the Hudson and along the Delaware, where he could reach out a hand to New England
on the east, and to Philadelphia on the south, at the same time threatening now and then the
stronghold of the British. Meantime an active campaign was being carried on in the states south
of Virginia. At the battle of Charleston the brave General Lincoln and his gallant army were
compelled by the British to lay down their arms and give themselves up as prisoners of war
without the usual courtesies. The ceremony of surrender was particularly galling. Forbidden
by their conquerors to play a British or a Hessian air, they marched to the joyous melody of
"Yankee Doodle," their colors cased, and their hearts rebellious. The battle of Camden was
another defeat for the Americans. On that disastrous day fell the companion of Lafayette's
first voyage, the Baron de Kalb, who died bravely after receiving no less than eleven wounds.
Sir Henry Clinton, the British commander in the south, thought that defeats like these would
finish the question for that part of the country, so he gave out proclamations of amnesty to
the tractable and built scaffolds to hang the unsubmissive. But the south was not to be so
easily subdued. The British met with defeat at King's Mountain, and in October, 1780, General
Greene was sent to push the southern campaign more vigorously.

One result of these southern disasters was to make the importance of Virginia increasingly
evident as a base for operations in the Carolinas. Cornwallis saw this and he determined to
reduce that state, to cut off the southern army from its base, and thus to control the approaches
to the heart of the country. Accordingly, in January, 1781, he sent Benedict Arnold, who had
been made a brigadier general in the British army, with a strong force, and with two trusted
British colonels, to conduct a campaign in that state.

If the British commander in chief had wished to fill the men of the Continental army with a
fire that would make them unconquerable, this was the way to do it, and this was the man against
whom they most desired to fight. On the other hand, General Washington chose a leader for the
defense who was so well beloved by his men, and who was himself filled with so fiery an enthusiasm
for the cause, that this alone would have been enough to bring into effect all the strength
of those drained and exhausted men and to energize them for prodigies of valor. This leader
was Lafayette. In February, 1781, he was commissioned to go against Arnold.

Lafayette was glad to be trusted with a command and overjoyed at the prospect of action. But
he still believed that the great final blow was to be struck at New York and he was most reluctant
to be separated from Washington with whom he intensely longed to be when the great climax came.
However, he obeyed orders with perfect alacrity and planned for a swift march in order to intercept
any efforts on the part of Arnold to obtain access to the various storehouses and river crossings
in Virginia. Leaving under guard his tents, artillery, and everything that could be spared,
with orders to follow as rapidly as possible, he marched his men through heavy rains and over
bad roads.

The Virginia campaign, says a French historian, is to be ranked among the classic tales of
all time; and in this campaign the young Lafayette was the most notable leader. It was on the
6th of April, 1781, that General Washington wrote to Lafayette, giving him full instructions,
which led him into the midst of active service.

Lafayette's detachment included men from New Jersey, from New Hampshire, and from other New
England states. Among them were some of the men who had been willing to take their lives in
their hands and follow their young leader on the hazardous expedition into Canada. Although
the men had no idea at this time what was before them, they were now going to follow Lafayette
to the glory that he so ardently desired.

But in spite of the splendid spirit of the troops, Lafayette found that they were in sore need
of encouragement. They saw that they were not going toward the grand final attack; they were
not used to the blind obedience exacted from trained European troops; and they did not understand
this discouraging southward move.

Fearing that the summer would be wasted, Lafayette thought of a device to strengthen the tie
between himself and his detachment. He wrote it down in the order of the day that they were
about to start out on an expedition that would tax all a soldier's powers, and in which there
would be abundant dangers and difficulties. The enemy, he said, was far superior to them in
numbers, thoroughly despised them, and was determined to conquer them. He added that no soldier
should accompany him who was inclined to abandon him; nor was it necessary that any one should
desert; for any man could, if he desired, have a pass and be sent to join his regiment in winter
quarters.

This method of approach had more than the desired effect. Lafayette soon wrote to Washington:
"Our men are in high spirits. Their honor was interested, and murmurs as well as desertions
are entirely out of fashion."

Soon after the advent of Lafayette in the Virginia field, he came into contact with Benedict
Arnold in a very curious way. The commander of the opposing British forces had died, and Arnold
took his place. About that time Arnold sent a message under a flag of truce to Lafayette. When
Lafayette learned that the letter which was brought in was from the traitor, he returned it
unopened, sending a verbal message stating that with Benedict Arnold he would hold no communication
whatever.

The subject of the letter from Arnold was an exchange of prisoners, a matter that interested
him extremely, as he well knew that Lafayette could hardly have pleased the American people
better than by presenting Benedict Arnold to them a prisoner. We know that Arnold's mind dwelt
on this aspect of his sad situation from the fact that he once quizzed a captured American
to find out what the Americans would do with him if they took him prisoner. The soldier audaciously
replied that they would "cut off the leg that had been wounded in the country's service and
hang the rest of him!" Lafayette's action in regard to the letter from Arnold was very gratifying
to Washington; he said that in nothing had Lafayette pleased him more than in refusing to hold
communication with Benedict Arnold.

Soon after this Arnold was transferred to New York, and Cornwallis came forward with reënforcements,
declaring that he would now "proceed to dislodge Lafayette from Richmond." The struggle between
the young French officer (not yet twenty-four years old) in his first attempt at carrying on
an independent campaign, and the veteran British commander with years of service behind him,
was now taken up with more spirit than ever before. It was the crisis of the Revolution. If
the Continental army could only hold out a little longer, it might be possible, by adroit advance
and diplomatic retreat, to avoid unequal battles until the foe was worn out or until some favorable
opportunity should arise for a direct attack. Cornwallis, of course, despised his exhausted
enemy. A letter from him was intercepted and brought into the American camp; in the letter
he said, "The Boy cannot escape me!" Lafayette's face must have been set in very grim lines
when he read that letter.

Technically, Lafayette had been taking orders from General Greene whose command was in the
south and included Virginia. But on the 18th of May, Lafayette was ordered to take the entire
command in Virginia and to send all reports directly to General Washington. "The Boy's" letters
to Colonel Hamilton show that he fully recognized the gravity of affairs, the responsibility
of his position, and the dangers of his own over-enthusiastic spirit. The British command of
the adjacent waters, the superiority of their cavalry, and the great disproportion in the forces
of the two armies, gave the enemy such advantages that Lafayette dared not venture to engage
the British. The British generals thoroughly understood what they called Lafayette's "gasconading
disposition," and they relied upon it to work woe to his plans and to contribute to their own
glory. His prudence disappointed them as much as it satisfied Washington who had said of Lafayette,
"This noble soldier combines all the military fire of youth with an unusual maturity of judgment."
Lafayette desired to be worthy of this high praise.

On April 29, Lafayette and his light infantry reached Richmond in time to prevent its capture
and to protect the supplies that had been concentrated there. In the battle at Green Spring
his bravery led him once more to plunge into the thick of the fight, losing his horse (some
reports say two horses) which was shot under him or by his side.

In Wayne's official report on that battle he said that "Lafayette was frequently requested
to keep at a greater distance, but his native bravery rendered him deaf to the admonition."

He compelled the admiration of his opponents by his skill in defensive maneuvers. The "Boy"
obeyed his commander in chief, and he succeeded in misleading his foe, for Cornwallis believed
that the American force was larger than it actually was; he also believed that he could break
down the loyalty of the inhabitants of Pennsylvania and of Virginia. In both these points he
was direfully mistaken. But Lafayette had high respect for Cornwallis as a general. "His Lordship
plays so well," he complained, "that no blunder can be hoped from him to recover a bad step
of ours."

Finally, reënforcements did come to Lafayette. In despair the American Congress sent a special
messenger express to Paris to bear one more urgent appeal for help. Washington wrote, "We are
at the end of our tether; ... now or never our deliverance must come."

Impetuous young John Laurens was chosen to be this Ambassador Extraordinary to France. Laurens
was greatly admired and loved by Lafayette and he recommended him to the affections of his
noble relatives in Paris. At the moment Laurens's father was being held a prisoner by the British
in the Tower of London--a fact that no doubt quickened the zeal of the son. At all events,
he was successful in his mission. The French fleet in the West Indies was ordered to the United
States and the king himself became surety for several millions of livres in addition to what
had already been sent to our aid.

The time was coming when Lafayette could begin to move the British army before him little by
little down the York River toward Yorktown, a method of procedure that now became, as the British
reports described it, the "constant and good policy of the enemy." On the 24th of September,
1781, Cornwallis proceeded to occupy Yorktown and to strengthen it against attack.

The city of Yorktown is situated near the entrance to Chesapeake Bay. At that place two rivers
enter the bay, the York and the James, and upon a conspicuous bluff on the northern side of
the neck of land between them stood this small town.

Cornwallis began at once to prepare the place for assault. Around the village he built a series
of fortifications consisting of seven redoubts and six batteries on the land side, and these
he connected by intrenchments. He placed a line of batteries on the river bank to command the
channel, and he established outworks to impede the approach of the enemy. Lafayette saw all
this and rejoiced, for he believed that Cornwallis was at last where he most desired to have
him--in a place where he would be open to attack, and with some hope of success. All the country
around Yorktown was now familiar to Lafayette. He knew every inch of the land, the river, the
morass, and the commanding hill. "Should a fleet come in at this moment, affairs would take
a very happy turn," he wrote joyfully to General Washington.

On the 30th of August the French fleet, under the Count de Grasse, with twenty-eight ships
of the line, appeared in the waters of Chesapeake Bay; a few days later the Marquis de Saint
Simon, field marshal in the French army, debarked a large reënforcement of French troops; and
on the 4th of September Lafayette moved nearer to Yorktown and took a position with the troops
he could bring together,--his own light infantry, the militia, and the reënforcements at Williamsburg,
a town in the vicinity of the British position.

Nothing now remained but the arrival of General Washington himself to take charge of the whole
enterprise, and Lafayette's happiness was complete when, on the 14th of September, he resigned
his command into the hands of his revered General.

CHAPTER XI

THE TWO REDOUBTS

It is September, 1781. The "Boy" has not been caught. He is encamped at Williamsburg, and looks
toward his powerful enemy who is surrounded by well-devised intrenchments at Yorktown, twelve
miles down the river.

The American and French troops, fifteen or sixteen thousand in number, arrived and took their
places. General Washington was in supreme command. America had never before seen such an army.
The Americans had done their utmost. That part of the French army that had come down from Connecticut
with Rochambeau had astonished the people of Philadelphia as they marched through the city
by the brilliancy of their rose-and-violet-faced uniforms, and by the display of their graceful
and accurate military movements. Now they were to have an opportunity to show whether their
warlike spirit was expressed chiefly in ruffles and tinsel trimmings, or whether they could
win fame by more solid qualities.

On the 29th of September the combined American and French armies moved southward to a point
about four miles from the town. There they divided into two columns and the Americans defiled
to the right, the French to the left. They then proceeded to arrange themselves around the
town in an irregular semicircle that extended from the river bank at the west to the shore
on the southeast, a distance of about two miles. Toward the southern side were ranged the various
American regiments under Baron Steuben and General Wayne; and next to these stood what was
called the Light Infantry corps under Lafayette. Still another division stood at the extreme
right. This was under the command of General Lincoln, who had been forced, through no fault
of his own, to surrender to the British at Charleston.

The approaches to Yorktown were easy; there were means of shelter everywhere, and the American
army at once began preparations for the siege.

At last the men finished the construction of two parallels. They were now within three hundred
yards of the British defenses. General Washington then placed his siege guns in position. It
was the first week in October, 1781. On the sixth the siege began.

Every point in this dramatic history has been made the subject of story or poem, and naturally
some legendary quality would after a time irradiate the incidents. Thus some writers affirm
that General Washington gave the order for the first shot, and some say that it was Lafayette.
The story is this. Before signing the order, General Washington turned to Thomas Nelson who
was both governor of Virginia and a general in the army, and inquired,

"At what object shall this gun be fired?"

Pointing to his own dwelling where the roof appeared above the trees of Yorktown, and where
it was understood Cornwallis had his headquarters, General Nelson answered,

"There is my house; aim at that!"

The story is that Washington turned to the gunner and said,

"For every shot you cause to hit that house, I will give you five guineas."

From the 6th to the 10th of October, the fire from the allied American and French army increased
daily in vigor. On the 11th the second parallel was completed and entered, and the besieging
line was thus tightened and strengthened. Within their intrenchments the British were watching
for reënforcements that were fated never to come.

On the 14th of October it was found that the British held two redoubts whose guns were inconveniently
active, and the Americans believed they must be silenced. The redoubts had been built on two
small hills on the American right, in a difficult region where rocky cuts alternated with swampy
depressions. These two hills were called "Number Nine" and "Number Ten"; "Number Ten" was also
called "Rock Redoubt." These redoubts were about three hundred yards in front of the British
garrison, and Washington decided after consultation that they were of sufficient importance
to take by storm.

Accordingly the order was given. The reduction of Redoubt Number Nine was intrusted to a group
of French grenadiers and chasseurs. Rock Redoubt stood nearest the river; this was assigned
to Lafayette with his American regiments.

Important among the men under General Lafayette's command was Lieutenant Colonel de Gimat,
the French aid who had always been so faithful a follower of Lafayette; he commanded a body
of men from Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Then there was Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Hamilton,
the young American to whom Lafayette was personally so warmly attached, who afterwards was
to become one of the most distinguished servants of the new nation, and who was to meet so
strange and sad an end after his great work was done.

When Hamilton heard a rumor that General Washington was intending to give to a certain Colonel
Barber the opportunity to lead the attack, his spirit was immediately aroused. Without a moment's
delay he hastened to headquarters and warmly urged his right to the honorable and dangerous
task. He gained his point and returned in a state of exuberant satisfaction, exclaiming to
his major, "We have it! We have it!" So Lafayette assigned Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Hamilton
to lead the advance corps, to be assisted by Colonel de Gimat. In all there were four hundred
men under Lafayette for this storming adventure.

It was eight o'clock on the evening of October 14. The storming of the two redoubts had been
carefully planned even down to the least details; but so energetic was the work of the men,
so dashing was their valor, that when the time really came, the attack lasted but a few minutes.

Lafayette's redoubt was taken in a mere flash of time--in less than ten minutes, some close
observers said; others made it eight minutes. The six shells, the signal agreed upon, were
fired. The men started the march. Rock Redoubt loomed before them in the thick dusk of twilight.
They advanced in good order with their bayonets fixed and in utter silence, as they had been
commanded. But when the first volley of musketry came down from the top of the redoubt, they
broke their silence and huzzaed with all their power. Then they rushed forward, charging with
their bayonets as they ran, and in almost no time they were within the redoubt, with the defending
officer and forty-five men their prisoners. Not a shot had been fired; and so swift was the
action that few of the Americans were lost.

The not ungenerous rivalry between the groups of men who took the two redoubts is one of the
most picturesque incidents of the American Revolution. If it had not been for the fact that
the French detachment had paused to have the abatis cut through in regular order, they would
probably have been in their redoubt before the Americans under Lafayette were in theirs; for
when they were once on the height, they occupied but six minutes in making themselves masters
of their redoubt and in manning it again for action.

One move follows another quickly at such a time, and when Lafayette had entered his redoubt,
he looked over the parapet and saw that the men on the other height were still struggling for
the possession of theirs. It happened that a certain General Viomesnil had expressed a doubt
as to the efficiency of the American troops, therefore Lafayette welcomed this opportunity
to show their valor. He instantly sent an aid to announce to General Viomesnil, with a flourish
of compliments, that the American troops were in possession of their redoubt and to say that
if M. le Baron de Viomesnil desired any help, the Marquis de Lafayette would have great pleasure
in assisting him! The Major sent word,

"Tell the Marquis that I am not in mine, but that I will be in five minutes."

This promise was made good by the brave and energetic French troops. Perhaps never before had
the space of two minutes been of so much importance in the honor of two nations.

General Washington who, in his eagerness to see this important action, had ridden near,--too
near to please his officers and surgeons,--had closely watched the storming of the redoubts.
When they were taken and the guns had been instantly whirled about to face the enemy, he turned
to Generals Knox and Lincoln who stood near and said with emphasis,

"The work is done, and well done."

Then he mounted his horse and rode back to headquarters.

CHAPTER XII

THE SURRENDER OF YORKTOWN

At the siege of Yorktown much of the gallantry and glory of war was to be seen; but there was
another side as well. The dwelling houses in ruin, the sufferings of the wounded men, the surgical
operations, the amputations, the groans and sighs and homesickness, the dying gasps, the bodies
of slain horses lying in the way--these also are war.

In Yorktown itself many houses were in flames. A sortie had been attempted and had failed.
British reënforcements had not come. Supplies were giving out. The outlook seemed hopeless.
The men fought without spirit. An attempt was made to escape by sea. It also failed. A violent
storm drove the boats back to shore. The idea of surrender was entertained.

Consequently, on the 17th of October, General Cornwallis sent a note to General Washington
asking for a cessation of hostilities for twenty-four hours, to settle terms for the surrender
of Yorktown. Washington allowed two hours instead of twenty-four. Why waste any more time?

Interviews were immediately held, and a treaty of capitulation was framed.

When it was known that the British had yielded, a wave of the wildest joy spread through the
American and French camps--and through the whole country as well. Messengers rode at top speed
to Philadelphia to carry the good news. Congress was sitting there at the time. The rider came
in at midnight. At one o'clock the watchers called "All's well," as usual, but added,

"Cornwallis is taken!"

Windows were opened and heads thrust out. The streets soon filled with rejoicing people. What
Lafayette called "a good noisy feu de joie" followed.

The third article in the document of capitulation stated that the British troops should be
required to march out to the place appointed in front of the posts, at two o'clock precisely,
with shouldered arms, colors cased, and drums beating a British or a German march. They were
then to ground their arms and return to their encampments. The same afternoon the works at
Gloucester on the opposite side of the river were to be given up, the infantry to file out
as prescribed for the garrison at York, and the cavalry to go forth with their swords drawn
and their trumpets sounding.

Over all this there had been a sharp discussion. The British wished to receive the "honors
of war," that is, to go out with colors flying and drums beating; and the courteous Washington
was inclined to grant this request. But Lafayette remembered the requirements the British had
made at the defeat at Charleston. They had compelled the men to march out with colors cased,
and had forbidden them to play a British or a Hessian air; and he thought that in fair retaliation
the British army should now give up their arms in the manner required by them on that occasion.
He suggested, however, one original variation,--that they should be not forbidden but required
to march to a British or a German air. Colonel Laurens was in accord with this. He had served
at Charleston under General Lincoln, and he was only too glad to remind the British commissioners
that it had been so arranged and required of the American troops after that defeat.

"The article remains or I cease to be a commissioner," the young man said firmly. The high-spirited
Laurens could but remember that at that very moment his own father was still imprisoned in
the Tower of London.

The condition remained; and at noon on the 19th of October the capitulation was signed. At
one o'clock possession was taken of the enemies' works, and at two the garrison marched out.

A field about a mile and a half south of Yorktown was chosen for the ceremony. The scene was
brilliant and spectacular. All the American soldiers were drawn up in a line on one side of
the road and the French stood opposite with General Rochambeau, their commander in chief, leading
their line. General Washington, mounted on his horse and attended by his aids, was at the head.
Washington was ardently admired by all the French officers and they must have envied him his
magnificent appearance in this fortunate hour. That fearless and austere commander, who had
shared the sufferings and privations of his men in the dark night of Valley Forge, now rejoiced
with them in the hour of accomplishment.

The French made a splendid appearance with their uniforms of bright colors and contrasting
trimmings. Nearly all had the conventional three-cornered Revolutionary cap of blue; and the
trousers were prevailingly of a lemon or canary yellow. Glittering orders were flashing on
many uniforms, their banners were embroidered with golden lilies; each noble had his servants
arrayed in silver-laced livery, and the French bands of many fifes, horns, and cymbals, played
such music as was never heard before.

The American soldiers, who had inherited no traditions of either the glory or the disasters
of warfare, could not compare with the foreigners in their full-dress display. But in every
heart among them there was a feeling that richly compensated for the lack of feathers and facings.
Whether shopkeeper or farmer or mighty hunter from the interior who stood in that line, the
tide of united nationality ran higher in his heart than ever before. And every last man among
them was one degree happier by having the dashing young French Major General, their beloved
"Marquis," on the American side of the procession instead of in the foreign line. The "Boy"
that Cornwallis was so certain he could catch was splendid that day in the perfection of military
form. He sat, as always, very perfectly on his horse and he had the grace to be proud of the
company in which he stood. As to his own regiment of Light Infantry, he had always been fond
of decorating them with finery. They appeared now in dark leather leggins and white trousers;
their blue coats had white facings and white cuffs; and a blue feather stood up in front of
the cap and waved over the crown. This was the regulation uniform for them, but perhaps, having
just gone through the severities of their Virginia campaign, they were not able to "live up"
to their fine clothes. However, nothing mattered on that great day.

A vast concourse of American spectators was present to witness the surrender, but their desire
to see Lord Cornwallis was not gratified. He pleaded indisposition and appointed General O'Hara
in his place. As this general approached the group of commanding officers, the bands added
their music. By the stipulation, they had been commanded to play an English or a Hessian march,
but they were too proud to select one of their dignified national airs. Instead, they gave
the tune of an English folk song of hoary age, known from time immemorial as "Derry Down,"
but now called "The World Turned Upside Down," a title the British bandmaster no doubt considered
appropriate to the circumstances.

But the dignity of the occasion required that they should now observe the proprieties, for
there was a wonderful pageant to be viewed, and all felt the great import of the hour.

The conquered army advanced between the two long lines of French and American soldiers. General
O'Hara led the procession, riding slowly and proudly. As he approached General Washington,
he removed his hat and apologized for the absence of General Cornwallis. General Washington
received the apology and indicated that he had appointed General Lincoln, as the conquered
commander of Charleston, to do the honors of the day and to receive the arms of the conquered.
The moment was historic.

In one of the halls at Yale University stands a celebrated picture, painted by Trumbull, which
gives a vivid impression of the brilliancy and importance of the occasion. In this picture
General Washington, in an attitude of great dignity, is placed in the center of the scene.
Near him stands General Lincoln who is being richly rewarded for his bitter defeat at Charleston.
His hand is held out to receive the sword which the representative of General Cornwallis is
passing to him.

At the left of the picture are seen the French officers. Rochambeau is at the back and a little
separated from the rest, and the others in the line are the counts, marquises, and barons who
were officers in the French army.

General Lafayette, the American, was on the American side, not far from his beloved General
Washington. The one nearest to the commander in chief is General (or Governor) Thomas Nelson,
the one who had suggested that his own house roof be aimed at in the beginning of the siege;
the next is Lafayette; then Baron Steuben; the others are representative commanders from various
states.

The ceremony that followed this climax was most impressive. General Lincoln received the sword
of Cornwallis, and at once handed it back to General O'Hara. The several regiments came forward
to deliver their colors. Twenty-eight British captains, each bearing a flag folded in a case,
were drawn up in a line opposite the twenty-eight American sergeants who were stationed to
receive the flags. Ensign Wilson, then but eighteen years old, the youngest commissioned officer
in the American army, was chosen to conduct this ceremony and to hand the colors on to the
American sergeants. Lafayette looked down from his place in the line of mounted American officers
and felt that his most ardent hopes were now fulfilled, and that his motto, "Cur non," had
brought him only the best of fortune.

The day after the ceremony of surrender was the Sabbath, and General Washington ordered that
divine service should be held in all the regiments and that Thanksgiving should be the theme.
The next day he gave a dinner to which the general officers of the three armies were invited.
Lafayette could not restrain his admiration for Cornwallis for his gallant and appropriate
conduct upon all these rather embarrassing occasions.

If, however, he had possessed the gift of prophecy, he might have looked forward but one short
century to the centennial of Yorktown, when the flags of the United States and of Great Britain
would be run up together on the site of this historic surrender. Then he would have seen British
and American officers stand together with bared heads and in brotherly friendliness, while
salutes were fired and cheers rent the air.

Looking still further, he would have seen the day when the people of France would unite with
their one-time foe in various endeavors both peaceful and warlike. A strange planet is this,
for the shifting of national loyalties and the rending and intertwining of bonds of union!
If history could make the human race amenable to receiving any instruction whatever, we should
learn that war never yet decided any problem that could not have been better settled in some
other way.

CHAPTER XIII

LIONIZED BY TWO WORLDS

Three days after the surrender, the 22d of October, Lafayette was on board the Ville de Paris
in Chesapeake Bay. It was believed that the surrender of Cornwallis would be practically conclusive
as to the matter at issue between England and the United States. Lafayette therefore felt a
sweep of thoughts toward home. Congress gave him leave of absence. The Alliance was again placed
at his disposal and awaited him in Boston harbor.

An adoring France received him on his arrival. He had been the hero of the New World; he now
became the hero of the Old. The king of France gave him audience; when he arrived the queen
sent her carriage to bring Adrienne, who at the moment happened to be at some royal fête, as
swiftly as possible to the Noailles mansion. Balls were given in his honor. He was presented
with laurel at the opera. The king made him a field marshal, his commission to date from the
day of Cornwallis's surrender, and he was invited by Richelieu to a dinner where all the field
marshals of France were present, and where the health of Washington was drunk with words so
full of reverent admiration that they did Lafayette's heart good.

About this time a traveled American gentleman, Ledyard by name, was staying in Paris and commented
on the popularity of the returned American hero. He said:

"I took a walk to Paris this morning and saw the Marquis de Lafayette. He is a good man, this
same Marquis. I esteem him. I even love him, and so we all do, except a few, who worship him....
If I find in my travels a mountain as much elevated above other mountains as he is above ordinary
men, I will name it Lafayette."

The meeting of Lafayette with Adrienne cannot be described. He had now proved the value of
his love of freedom, and she was filled with pride in the acknowledgment he received on all
sides. The family reunion was perfect. He wrote to Washington, "My daughter and your George
have grown so much that I find I am much older than I thought." He had reached the advanced
age of twenty-four!

Lafayette was at once concerned with the concluding negotiations for peace between England
and the United States. To hasten these and to carry on further military plans, France united
with Spain in a projected expedition against the English possessions in the West Indies. For
this purpose Lafayette, in December, 1782, went to Cadiz as chief of staff, where an armament
of sixty ships and twenty-four thousand men were assembling. But while waiting for the final
orders to sail, a swift courier brought the news to Cadiz that the treaty of peace had, on
the 20th of January, 1783, been finally signed at Paris. Lafayette wished to be the one to
carry this news to America, but he was told that his presence at the negotiations at Madrid
was necessary to their success, and therefore he had to forego the pleasure of being the personal
messenger of the good news. Instead, he was allowed to borrow from the fleet a ship which he
sent, as swiftly as possible, to the land of his heart. The ship lent him was Le Triomphe,
well named for this message, and this was the first ship to bring the news of the Peace to
our shores.

His work in Spain being successfully accomplished, he returned to Paris by swift posts, which
means that he went in a carriage, with relays of good horses; and by driving day and night,
over the mountains and through the valleys, following ancient Roman roads and crossing through
many historic sites and cities, he covered the wide distance between the capital of Spain and
that of France.

The war being over, Washington, as every one knows, retired to his estate at Mount Vernon,
an act incomprehensible to some, but fully understood by his "adopted son," Lafayette, who wrote:

"Your return to a private station is called the finishing stroke of an unparalleled character.
Never did a man exist who stands so honorably in the opinion of mankind, and your name if possible
will become greater to posterity. Everything that is great and everything that is good were
never hitherto united in one man; never did that man live whom the soldier, statesman, patriot,
and philosopher could equally admire; and never was a revolution brought about which, in all
its motives, its conduct, its consequences, could so well immortalize its glorious chief. I
am proud of you, my dear General; your glory makes me feel as if it were my own; and while
the world is gaping upon you, I am pleased to think and to tell that the qualities of your
heart do render you still more valuable than anything you have done."

He then goes on to give a brief history of recent events--the evacuation of New York, the American
troops entering that city in good order, and New York finally freed from the British flag.
He regretfully declined the pressing invitation of Lafayette to come to Paris, and again invited
him and Madame de Lafayette to pay a visit at Mount Vernon. The correspondents appear to have
thought of each other frequently, though separated by the wide seas. Later, Lafayette had joyous
news to impart, for he wrote to Washington:

"I want to tell you that Madame de Lafayette and my three children are well, and that all of
us in the family join to present their dutiful affectionate compliments to Mrs. Washington
and yourself. Tell her that I hope soon to thank her for a dish of tea at Mount Vernon. Yes,
my dear General, before the month of June is over, you will see a vessel coming up the Potomac
and out of that vessel will your friend jump, with a panting heart and all the feelings of
perfect happiness."

During Lafayette's visit to America in 1784 the people had an opportunity to show their gratitude
to one who had freely given his services to them in their day of need. In New York he was received
with the greatest enthusiasm by the whole people, including his affectionate companions in
arms. From here on he listened to the ringing of bells and the resounding of huzzas by day
and saw lavish illuminations in his honor by night. A visit of ten days at Mount Vernon gave
great pleasure to Washington as well as to Lafayette. In Boston his coming was celebrated at
the stump of the Liberty Tree that the British had cut down during their occupation of the
city. Many speeches were made during this journey, and Lafayette showed himself tactful in
adapting his words to the occasion. His tact was prompted by a sincere liking for all people,
a benevolent feeling toward the whole world. This was the foundation of much that was attractive
and useful in his character.

During this journey Lafayette went as far north as Portsmouth and as far south as Yorktown.
The various great battlefields of the campaign of 1781 each received a visit in the company
of Washington and of other companions in arms. The different states vied with one another in
giving his name to their towns and villages--a custom that has continued to this day. The state
of Virginia placed a bust of Lafayette in the capitol at Richmond; another was presented to
the city of Paris by the minister of the United States, and was received with great pomp at
the Hôtel de Ville, or city hall. Three states, Maryland, Connecticut, and Virginia, conferred
on him the right of citizenship for himself and his children, an enactment that later became
national; and so Lafayette became an American citizen in legal form as well as in spirit. How
little did he think that this right would become so precious a boon to him and would be so
sorely needed!

The bust in the Hôtel de Ville was destroyed at the time of the Terror; and the day came soon
after when nearly all that remained to the "Hero of Two Worlds" was a certificate of citizenship
in a country to which he was not native, while the owner of the certificate, because of his
principles, was hurried from prison to prison. In 1784 he was riding on the high tide of success
and popularity, but tragic days were soon to come in the life of America's loyal friend.

Lafayette took his farewell of Congress at Trenton, New Jersey, where it was then in session.
The scene was dignified and affecting. It was at the close of this ceremony that Lafayette
pronounced that wish--one might call it a prayer--which has been so often quoted.

Following his return from America at this time, Lafayette made a long tour through Germany
and Austria. His purpose was to improve himself, he said, by the inspection of famous fields
of battle, by conversation with the greatest generals, and by the sight of well-trained troops.
He visited Frederick the Great who, in the eyes of the exquisite Frenchman, presented a most
untidy appearance in a dirty uniform covered over with Spanish snuff. He saw him review thirty-one
battalions and seventy-five squadrons, thirty thousand men in all, and he admired the "perfectly
regular machine wound up for forty years" by which they clicked off their movements. At the
table of Frederick, Lafayette ate, at one time, with Cornwallis on one side and the son of
the king of England on the other; on which occasion the Prussian despot indelicately amused
himself by plying the young soldier with questions about American affairs. One wonders if in
all his travels Lafayette caught any glimpse on the horizon of a certain grim fortress wherein,
because of his hatred of despots like Frederick, fate decreed that he was to be immured for
five long years.

CHAPTER XIV

GATHERING CLOUDS

The great storm of the French Revolution was now to appear on the horizon, climb to its height,
and break in terror over France. During these years, from 1784 to 1792, Lafayette was for most
of the time in Paris where he took part in events of great importance and in such a way as
to command respect from those who sympathized with his liberal ideas and to win detraction
from devotees of monarchial systems.

At first, however, no one dreamed what the future held for France. Lafayette busied himself
in doing what he could to further the affairs of the United States, turning his attention to
commercial questions such as he had never supposed would interest him. Whale-oil, for instance,
became a favorite subject with him; his services on behalf of that American industry were acknowledged
by the seagoing people of Nantucket who sent him a gigantic, five-hundred-pound cheese, the
product of scores of farms, as a testimonial of their appreciation.

A cause that interested him intensely was slavery. His views on this subject he summed up in
1786 in a letter to John Adams:

"In the cause of my black brethren I feel myself warmly interested, and most decidedly side,
so far as respects them, against the white part of mankind. Whatever be the complexion of the
enslaved, it does not, in my opinion, alter the complexion of the crime which the enslaver
commits, a crime much blacker than any African face. It is to me a matter of great anxiety
and concern, to find that this trade is sometimes carried on under the flag of liberty, our
dear and noble stripes, to which virtue and glory have been constant standard-bearers."

Lafayette not only had a lofty sentiment about the condition of the slaves, but he put his
theory into practice by buying at great expense an estate in Cayenne, or French Guiana, with
a large number of slaves whom he put under a system of education, with the intention of making
them free as soon as they were fitted for economic independence. Madame de Lafayette interested
herself in the management of this estate; she provided pastors and teachers to go to Cayenne
as missionaries and educators.

The experiment was going on well when the Revolution broke over France. Then it was doomed.
While Lafayette was languishing in the dungeon at Olmütz, one of his great anxieties was for
his Cayenne charge. He would have been even more unhappy if he had known that when the revolutionists
took possession of his property, they caused that estate to be sold, together with all the
slaves, who thus went back into slavery--a great inconsistency in those same revolutionists
who imagined they were working for liberty and enfranchisement!

During this time Lafayette had two great interests: one, a public life marked by increasing
premonitions of national danger; the other, at Chaviniac where his family stayed and where
he was instituting all sorts of reforms on his own estate and in the village of Chaviniac,
and working steadily for the welfare of the people who were dependent upon him. He founded
an annual fair and a weekly market day. He built roads at his own expense. In the village he
established a resident physician whose services the poor could have at any time without cost
to themselves. He founded a weaving business and a school to teach the art. The agricultural
advancement of America had interested him, so he brought a man from England to teach new methods
to his farmers. New implements were imported and new breeds of cattle were introduced. In every
way he brought enlightenment and betterment.

Meantime a spirit was rising that was soon to sweep not only over Paris but through all the
provinces of France. Lafayette saw this storm coming. One day, in 1789, he was walking in the
grand gallery of the Château de Chaviniac with a gentleman of the neighborhood. They spoke
together of what the emancipation of the peasant would mean to the people of the Auvergne region.
At that moment a group of peasants from his estate came in to offer Lafayette some nosegays
and cheeses. They presented these gifts on bended knees, in an attitude of deep submission
and respect.

"There," said the neighbor, "see how little disposed these peasants are to receive your boasted
emancipation; depend upon it, they think very little on the matter."

"Well, well," replied Lafayette, "a few years hence we shall see who was right."

They did! The time was not far distant when the peasants of Auvergne, as well as the rabble
of Paris, went singing:

    Ah! ça ira, ça ira, ça ira!
    Celui qui s'élève, on l'abaissera,
    Et qui s'abaisse, on l'élèvera.

Significant events followed, and on every important occasion Lafayette bore a part. He was
a member of the Assembly of Notables, and he led a minority of the nobility who demanded the
calling of the States General, a representative assembly. He presented his famous composition,
the Declaration of Rights, modeled on Jefferson's Declaration of Independence. He was made
by acclamation Colonel General of the new National Guard and gave them the white cockade. He
represented the people on the great day of the oath of loyalty to the new constitution. For
a time he was riding on the top wave of popularity.

Lafayette believed in freedom for all people and to every man his rights. But he thought that
France was not yet ready for the form of government that was succeeding in America. For France
he believed the constitutional monarchy to be the best. He thought--and every one now thinks--that
Louis XVI was a man of good intentions, and he believed these good intentions would show that
monarch what was for the welfare and happiness of the people. Therefore he defended the king
and the royal family as a part of the form of government that was the best for France. The
newly adopted constitution appeared to him to be the just expression of royal authority.

In his blind optimism Lafayette could not believe but that his ideas would in the end have
their proper weight. He stood with the nobility, resting proudly on their good intentions,
and facing a brute force newly awakened by the tocsin of liberty. To this unreasoning instinct,
liberty meant nothing but license. The result of putting this license into power meant anarchy.

Now came Lafayette's time of difficulty. He was accused of conniving at the attempt of the
king and queen to escape. Afterwards the queen in her trial testified that Lafayette had known
nothing whatever of the project. Lafayette was also blamed for the death of Foulon, a minister
who was hanged, beheaded, and dragged through the streets by the mob. The fact was that he
did all in his power to control the mob that caused Foulon's death. They accused him of firing
on the mob. That he did, in defense of the life of the king--first standing before the cannon
to give his life if need be. He was accused of being too liberal and of being too aristocratic.
He was burned between the two fires. The people seemed determined not to understand him. They
said that if Lafayette truly loved the people it was but another evidence that his soul was
plebeian--his simplicity of manner and unstudied grace of speech were but further proofs thereof.
Brutality and lawlessness, veiled under the name of patriotism, could hardly do less than hate
an incorruptible man like Lafayette who was outspoken in his beliefs.

A coalition of European powers stood ready to invade France and place the monarchy again on
a secure basis. Lafayette was at the head of one of three armies sent to withstand the forces
of the coalition, but his own soldiers were secretly in sympathy with the revolutionary frenzy.

The end came when Lafayette defied the Jacobin party, and they in turn declared him a traitor
and put a price on his head. But even at that late day, if there had been in France any number
of men who possessed Lafayette's calmness, self-control, and generous spirit, the state might
still have been saved from tumult and degradation. As it was, France turned its face away from
its best light and hope, and Lafayette was, as Carlyle picturesquely said, "hooted forth over
the borders into Cimmerian night." He put his army into the best order possible, and with a
company of devoted officers and followers started for a neutral country.

Meantime in Paris the feet of the people were at the threshold of the Terror.

CHAPTER XV

LAFAYETTE IN PRISON

Lafayette attempted to cross the frontier on his way to America when he was intercepted and
taken prisoner. This was at Rochefort, on neutral territory. The arrest of peaceful citizens
on their way through neutral territory to a neutral country was treason to all international
covenant and courtesy; evidently, the phrase "international courtesy" had not then been coined;
but the act has been abhorred by unprejudiced military men the world over.

The party were taken to Namur, thence to Wesel, where some were released; later, three remained
to be imprisoned in Magdeburg. Lafayette is reported to have owned as his highest ambition
that his name should be a terror to all kings and monarchs. If he made this remark, his wish
was fulfilled; for at a meeting of a committee of the Coalition it was agreed that the "existence
of Lafayette was incompatible with the safety of the governments of Europe."

Following this decision, in May, 1794, the king of Prussia gave him into the keeping of the
Emperor of Austria, and the dangerous prisoner, together with three of the officers who were
with him when arrested, Latour-Maubourg, Bureaux-de-Pusy, and Lameth, were promptly carried
to the strong fortress of Olmütz, high up in the gloomy Carpathian Mountains. Lameth nearly
died and therefore was released, but the other two remained, not, however, being allowed to
see or to communicate with their distinguished companion.

Lafayette had no apologies to make for the step he had taken. Indeed, he had great hopes that
he would escape from his captors. Friends were finding means to communicate with him and plots
were forming in the undercurrents of correspondence.

But on the whole he much preferred to take his liberty than to have it granted to him. If indeed
liberty were granted, it would be with conditions "like those made by a lower class of brigands
in the corner of a thicket," and the discussion would in all probability result in a shutting
on him of quadruple doors.

He "much preferred to take his liberty than to have it granted to him." Accordingly plans were
made. In one letter he calls for a good chart, arms, a passport, a wig, some drugs to insure
a quiet night's sleep to the jailors, with instructions as to the dose to be given, and an
itinerary for the route, with dangerous places indicated in it. They must know the exact time
horses were to be ready, and the exact house where they were to stand. He was in buoyant spirits.

"Although a sojourn of fourteen months in the prisons of their Majesties has not contributed
to my health," he wrote, "still I have a strong constitution and my early habits of life, added
to the recollection of my fetters, will enable me to make a very rapid journey."

Finishing one of these letters, he says, "I hear them opening my first locks [the outer doors]
and must stop writing." Latour-Maubourg adds a passage in his own hand. He begs for a piece
of sealing wax and emphasizes that Lafayette must surely be rescued, whether the others are or not.

The prisoners looked out for those who were helping them to escape; these helpers were to be
protected from suspicion. To do this they put a manikin with a nightcap on in Lafayette's bed,
dug a channel under the chimney, and left a coat in the passage well smudged with soot.

Why none of these plans worked is not known. Lafayette was carted on to Neisse, but the plotting
still went on. At last the grim and impregnable fortress of Olmütz received the three prisoners.
Here he could receive no letters; he could read no paper; he was harshly told that he should
never again know anything of what was going on in the outside world; that he was now a complete
nonentity, a being known only by a number, and that no person in Europe knew where he was nor
ever should know until his death.

Lafayette's misery was turned to a still darker hue by the fact that he felt the gravest alarm
for the welfare of Madame de Lafayette. As he was being carted from prison to prison, on his
way eastward toward that final destination in the mountain fortress, the news that was smuggled
to him by secret and mysterious bearers was not of a kind to bring peace to his mind. He heard
of the extremes to which the revolutionary frenzy was carrying the Parisian people; he heard
that the king and queen and various members of their family had been proscribed, denounced,
and sentenced to death by a committee miscalled a "Committee of Public Safety," and that the
nobility were being ruthlessly sacrificed. Saddest of all this for him was the news that his
wife, that woman of heroic character, of marvelous spiritual charm, and of liberal and philanthropic
mind, had been imprisoned and was in danger of perishing on the scaffold. This word--and nothing
more! The darkness of life behind walls seven feet thick was not lightened for many a long
month by any further news in regard to Adrienne. The thoughts of Lafayette in his prison were
as sad as can be imagined.

As months and years passed on, Lafayette may be forgiven if he sometimes thought that he had
been wholly forgotten. But it was not so. It was not an easy matter to liberate a man whose
very existence was a menace to every throne. The kings had him completely in their power--they
wished to keep him out of sight.

It goes without saying that to President Washington the imprisonment of his young friend, to
whom he was bound by strong and vital bonds of gratitude and friendship, was a source of genuine
anguish. But what could he do? As Lafayette said, America was far away and the politics of
Europe were tortuous. In them Washington had no part and no influence; and he could not go
to war for he had no equipment for any such exploit.

He did, however, put in train many schemes designed to influence others to aid his loyal friend.
He used the greatest secrecy; the correspondence as it is preserved refers only to "our friend"
and to "the one you know," so that if the letters were lost, no one could possibly divine what
was being done. The President sent letters to the representatives of the United States in both
France and England, commanding that informal solicitations for the release of that friend of
America should be made, and that these were to be followed by formal ones if necessary. He
wrote to the king of Prussia, urging the release of his dear friend as an act of justice as
well as a personal favor to himself; and to the Emperor of Austria, begging that Lafayette
might be allowed to come to America. The letter has that thorough goodness and that amplitude
of dignity that were characteristics of Washington.

                               "PHILADELPHIA, 15 May, 1796.

Little by little the place where Lafayette was imprisoned became known to a few, and public
sentiment was aroused to the point of bringing up the matter before the British Parliament.
It was a certain General Fitzpatrick who, strange to say, had met Lafayette in London before
he went to America, and again between battles when they were ranged on opposite sides of the
Revolution, who now brought up the question. Twice he made a motion in favor of acting for
the release of Lafayette. Fitzpatrick was the kind of man who could not bear to entertain the
idea that there should exist "in any corner of British soil, in any English heart, conceptions
so narrow as to wish to see the illustrious pupil of Washington perishing in a dungeon on account
of his political principles." General Fitzpatrick's motion was seconded by General Tarleton,
who had fought Lafayette through the length and breadth of Virginia. Pitt and Burke spoke against
it.

Lord Grey said that if asked what would be gained by furthering the release of Lafayette, he
would reply that "we should exculpate ourselves from the suspicion of being accomplices in
the foulest wrong that ever disgraced humanity." The question was put to vote and stood forty-six
yeas and one hundred and fifty-three nays. Such was the composition of the British Parliament
at that time.

The next year Fitzpatrick renewed his efforts for Lafayette and proposed another motion. In
an eloquent speech which should make his name honored for all time, he reviewed the former
debate and paid a wonderful tribute to the character of Madame de Lafayette. The discussion
that followed dwelt mainly on the question whether Lafayette was to be considered as a subject
of the emperor or as a prisoner of war. The vote stood, yeas fifty, nays one hundred and thirty-two.
Evidently the British Parliament had not made any great advance in the intervening year.

Meantime secret plans were being made to rescue Lafayette. The beautiful Angelica Schuyler
Church, daughter of the American general, Philip Schuyler, was then in London; her husband,
John Barker Church, had fought under Lafayette, and was now in the British Parliament. Mrs.
Church was the sister-in-law of Alexander Hamilton, one of Lafayette's dearest friends among
his young companions-in-arms, and she was in touch with a group of French émigrés. In fact,
she was the center of a little volcano of feeling for the exile.

This secret circle kept up a constant communication with Mr. Pinckney and Mr. Jay. Mrs. Church
wrote to Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of State in the United States, and to many others, begging,
pleading for help. For Lafayette, whom she had known in New York, her heart was constantly
bleeding.

Proceeding from a mysterious writer who signed his name "Eleutherios," spirited articles soon
began to appear in the English newspapers, and thus constantly fed a flame of feeling. All
sorts of fears for Lafayette were entertained. "I see him in a dungeon," wrote one; "I see
him in Siberia; I see him poisoned; I see him during what remains of his life torn by the uncertainty
of the fate of all that he loves."

Soon after this the name of a Hanoverian doctor begins to appear in the documents preserved.
This Dr. Bollman had carried one exploit through successfully, bringing out of Paris during
the Terror a certain French émigré and conveying him to London in safety. Bollman was to be
engaged by the London group to start out and see what could be done for Lafayette. This scheme
resulted in a great adventure in which an American youth figured nobly.

CHAPTER XVI

AN ATTEMPTED RESCUE

The hope that potentates and governments might take up the cause of Lafayette began to fail
and other plans were made. Chivalric dreams of going to seek the place where he was confined
and effect what seemed the impossible--a personal rescue--began to haunt the minds of daring
youths. A letter is on record from a young man who wrote to Washington to ask if he might not
have permission to go and seek Lafayette, and, if possible, conduct him and his family to America.
Washington told him that all was being done that could be done, and that personal attempts
would only result in failure. But there was another enterprising soul who did not wait for
permission--he acted upon his own initiative. The story of that splendid young American must
now be told.

Francis Kinloch Huger was the first child that Lafayette saw after he landed in America. It
will be remembered that the little company of adventurers first touched shore on the country
estate of Major Benjamin Huger, at Prospect Hill, near Charleston, South Carolina. Here Lafayette
was received hospitably and sent on in his host's carriage to Charleston.

The child Francis was then five years old and was the young representative of a remarkable
family of Huguenot extraction. The first Daniel Huger came from Loudon, France, soon after
the Edict of Nantes, and his descendants to-day number six thousand; among them are found a
large number of distinguished names. Five Huger brothers held important positions in Revolutionary
times. Three served in the war; Brigadier General Isaac Huger was second in command to General
Greene at Guilford Court House; Lieutenant Colonel Frank Huger was promoted from Moultrie's
Regiment to be Quartermaster General of the Southern Army of the Revolution; and Major Benjamin
Huger, Lafayette's host and the father of the child Francis, was killed in 1780 before the
lines at Charleston. Of the other two brothers in this remarkable family group, Daniel was
one of Governor Rutledge's Privy Council and later a member of Congress, and John was on the
Council of Safety and Secretary of State.

The boy Francis thus came from a stock of stalwart men. He was eight years old when his father
was killed at Charleston. The pity of it was driven into his young soul when the ignominy of
that defeat was accomplished.

Immediately after that event young Huger was sent to England to acquire a medical education.
Later he, as the custom was, went on his travels and to hear lectures at great seats of learning.
But the passion for chivalric action that was inspiring youth everywhere he could not quell.
He dreamed of finding Lafayette.

Meantime, American, English, and French friends of the illustrious prisoner were busy in London,
and they had commissioned the "Hanoverian doctor," known as Dr. Bollman, to make a search for
him. This man made careful preparations. He traveled in a leisurely way through Germany in
the guise of a wealthy and philanthropic physician. He let it be known that he was a sort of
follower of Cagliostro, a notorious Italian whose ideas were popular at the time. He treated
the poor free of charge and he showed a special interest in prisoners.

At last he reached Olmütz, a journey at that time something like going from New York to Nome.
He made acquaintance with the attending physician of the garrison and was invited to dinner.
He in return asked the surgeon to dine with him at his inn. The dinner was sumptuous. M. de
Colombe, who tells this part of the story, says that the wine was especially excellent. No
one could distrust a simple-hearted doctor, an unselfish student of mankind, and especially
one who ordered such delicious wine! In time, conversation turned upon prisoners of note. It
was rumored, hinted the artful and ingenious doctor, that there was such an one at Olmütz.
Could this be true? It was even so, the unsuspecting surgeon admitted; the great Lafayette
was under his close care. The doctor inquired for Lafayette's health and was told that it was
fairly good. Dr. Bollman ventured to send his compliments to the prisoner with a message that
he had lately left Lafayette's friends in England. The unsuspecting surgeon carried the innocent
message.

On another occasion he brought word that Lafayette would like to know who those friends were.
The doctor tried to speak the names, but could not pronounce them so that the Austrian could
understand them. He felt in his pocket for a bit of paper (which he had carefully placed there
beforehand) and on it wrote the names which he sent to Lafayette. These words also were written
on the paper:

"If you read this with as much care as did your friend at Magdeburg, you will receive equal
satisfaction."

The reference was to a prisoner at Magdeburg who received a book which contained messages written
on the flyleaves in lemon juice. He held the book to the fire and by doing this the written
words came out in brown lines and could be read. Lafayette took the hint, and discovered the
message written with this invisible ink on the bit of paper. After this Bollman was allowed
to lend Lafayette a book to read. It came back with lemon-juice messages on its margins. Lafayette
wrote that he was sometimes allowed to drive, and as he was unknown to Bollman, he suggested
a signal by which he could be recognized. He said that his lieutenant was a sheepish dolt,
and that his corporal was covetous, treacherous, and cowardly. He added that the rides were
allowed for the sake of his health. It appears that the government did not wish to arouse the
frenzy of indignation that would follow if Lafayette were allowed to die in prison, so he was
occasionally taken out to ride a league or even two from the fortress gate. If a rescuer and
a trusty helper should appear, they could surely effect the escape. Lafayette would agree to
frighten the cowardly little corporal himself; they need not provide a sword for him, for he
would take the corporal's. An extra horse, one or two horses along the road--it could easily
be done. It was a bold plan, but the bolder the plan, the more unexpected it was, and the better
chance of success. Every day he would watch for them along the road.

After securing this definite information, the doctor retired to Vienna to make further plans.

This account may be in some respects the later elaboration of a story many times retold. But
it sounds probable. At any rate, in some such way Dr. Bollman gained communication with Lafayette's
cell, and brought the welcome news that friends were working for him. Then they projected a plan.

The story is again taken up in a coffeehouse in Vienna where Bollman is accustomed to go. Lafayette
has suggested an assistant, and Bollman realizes that he can do nothing without one. Therefore
he is looking about to find one who shall have spirit and fitness for the work. We see him
now at the supper table, eagerly conversing with a certain young American, like himself a medical
student on his travels. Curiously enough, it is Francis Kinloch Huger, now twenty-one years
old. They talk of America. Bollman, with elaborate inadvertence, touches on the personality
of Lafayette. The young man relates his childish memory of the arrival of that enthusiastic
youth when he first came ashore at his father's South Carolina country place. Bollman tests
Huger in various ways and makes up his mind that this is the best possible person to help him.
He broaches the subject. Young Huger is only too ready--this very enterprise has been his dearest
thought and his dream. The danger does not daunt him. "He did not let the grass grow under
his feet," said his daughter years later, "but accepted at once."

It was not, however, purely romantic sentiment with him; he did not accede on the impulse of
a moment. "I felt it to be my duty to give him all the aid in my power," said Colonel Huger
to Josiah Quincy many years later. And though he may not have been conscious of it at the time,
there was still another reason, for he admitted, long afterwards, "I simply considered myself
the representative of the young men of America and acted accordingly."

The story may here be taken up almost in the words of Colonel Huger's daughter who wrote it
down exactly as her father related it.

In October, 1794, they set out from Vienna in a light traveling carriage and with two riding
horses, one of them being strong enough to carry two persons if necessary. They intended to
appear in the characters of a young Englishman and his traveling tutor, and they were provided
with passes for the long journey. With assumed carelessness they proceeded toward Olmütz. The
gentlemen were generally riding, while their servants and the baggage were in the carriage.
They went to the same inn where Dr. Bollman had stayed on his former visit. Here they remained
two days, while they secretly sent a note to Lafayette and received his answer. They paid their
bill at the inn, sent their carriage on ahead to a village called Hoff, and directed their
servants to await them there.

Now Bollman and Huger are riding leisurely along the level plain that surrounds the fortress.
The huge, dark prison looms in the distance. Every portion of the wide plain is visible to
the sentinels at the gates, and within reach of the cannon on the walls. It is market day and
many persons are passing back and forth. The two foreign travelers look in every direction
for the carriage which may bring Lafayette. Both are eager for his coming.

At last they notice a small phaëton being driven slowly along. In the carriage they see a prisoner
in a blue greatcoat with an officer beside him and an armed soldier riding behind. They spur
on, and, as they pass, the prisoner gives the sign agreed upon. He raises his hat and wipes
his forehead. The feelings excited by the assurance that this was indeed Lafayette, Huger never
to his dying day forgot. The riders look as indifferent as possible, bow slightly, and pass on.

The phaëton stops at the side of the road and Lafayette alights. He draws the officer toward
a footpath that runs along the highroad at that point, and appears to be leaning on the officer
as if scarcely able to walk.

"This must be the time," cries Bollman.

"He signs to us," says Huger in great excitement.

The two young men put spurs to their horses and dash up together. As they approach, Lafayette
seizes the officer's sword. A struggle follows. Bollman leaps from his horse and throws the
bridle to Huger. But the flash of the drawn sword has frightened the horse; he dashes aside
and gallops away. Huger dismounts, passes his arm through his bridle, and he and Bollman seize
the soldier and tear his hands from Lafayette's throat. The soldier runs toward the town, shouting
and waving his cap to call the attention of the sentinels.

What was to be done? They had now but one horse. The alarm had been given. Not a minute could
be lost.

Huger gave his horse to Lafayette and told him hurriedly to go to Hoff, the rendezvous agreed
upon. Lafayette mounted the horse and started out. But he could not bear to leave his two rescuers
in such a plight, so he came back to ask if he could not do something for them.

"No, no!" they cried. "Go to Hoff! Go to Hoff!" they repeated. "We will follow."

Now if they had said this in French, if they had said "Allez à Hoff," Lafayette would have
understood the direction. But not knowing the name of this near-by village, he misunderstood.
He thought the English words meant only "Go off!" A fatal misunderstanding!

Huger and Bollman soon released their officer and both mounted the remaining horse. He was
not used to "carrying double." The insulted creature set his feet in a ditch and threw them
both. Bollman was stunned. Huger lifted him up and then started off to recover the horse. On
the way he was thinking what course he should take in this critical and dangerous juncture.

When he came back he had decided. He said that Bollman should take the horse and follow Lafayette,
for Bollman knew German and could give more help than he could. Alarm guns were beginning to
be fired from the battlements, and trains of soldiers were seen issuing from the gates; but
these portentous signs did not influence him. Bollman was persuaded; he mounted, put spurs
to his horse, and was soon out of sight. Young America stood alone on this wide, dangerous
plain; the shadow of that ominous fortress fell gloomily on its border. The guards came down.
Between two rows of fixed bayonets Huger passed into the fortress.

The bold plan was doomed to complete failure! Lafayette rode twenty miles; but the blood on
his greatcoat awakened suspicion; he was arrested and carried back to Olmütz where a heavier
and gloomier imprisonment awaited him.

The same fate awaited Bollman; but Lafayette's despair was the deeper because he feared that
his brave rescuers had been executed for their gallant attempt in his behalf.

The imprisonment accorded to the intrepid young American was as vile and cruel as any devised
in the Dark Ages. He was put in a cell almost underground, with but one small slit near the
top to let in a little light. A low bench and some straw formed the furnishings, while two
chains linked him at ankle and wrist to the ceiling. To make things a trifle more cheerful
for him, they showed him a prisoner in a cell which was only a walled hole in the ground! The
prisoner had been there for many years and his name and residence were now utterly forgotten.
The jailers also exhibited their expert method of swift decapitation and acted out the method
with a large two-bladed sword. Daily questionings of a cruel kind were used in order to force
him to confess the truth--or rather what they wished to believe was the truth--that he had
been the agent of a widespread plot. He stated that it was no man's plot but his own. They
threatened torture, but he did not flinch or change his statement.

At last the officers were convinced that there had been no concerted plot. They then softened
the rigors of Huger's imprisonment, gave him a cell with a window where a star could sometimes
be seen, and lengthened his chains so that he could take as many as three whole steps. After
a time he managed to get into communication with Bollman who was in the room above. With a
knotted handkerchief Bollman lowered a little ink in a walnut shell from his window, together
with a scrap of dingy paper. Huger then wrote a letter of a few lines only to General Thomas
Pinckney, then American Minister at London. His entreaty was to let his mother know that he
was still alive; also to let Lafayette's friends know that he would certainly have escaped
but that he had been recognized as an Olmütz prisoner in a small town where he changed his
horse; and that he had already mounted a fresh one when stopped. Huger's letter ended with
the words, "Don't forget us. F.K.H. Olmütz, Jan. 5th, 1795." By bribery and cajolery they started
this letter off.

Suffice it to say at present that, through the intervention of General Pinckney, the two young
men were finally released and made their way swiftly out of the country. It was well that they
hurried, for the emperor decided they had been released too soon and sent an edict for their
rearrest. They had, however, by that time crossed the line and were out of his domain.

After a short stay in London, Huger started for America. The passengers on his ship discussed
the story of Lafayette's attempted rescue through the entire six weeks of the voyage, and they
never dreamed that their quiet young fellow-passenger was one of the rescuers until he received
an ovation on landing. This is related by the only member of the Huger family living to-day
(1916) who heard the story of the attempted rescue from the lips of "Colonel Frank" himself,
as the family affectionately call him. She says that Colonel Frank was the most silent of men.
He was the kind that do more than they talk.

When Huger reached Philadelphia, he called at once on President Washington and told him of
the effort he had made. The President said that he had followed the whole course of events
with the greatest solicitude and had wished that it might have met with the success it deserved.

In time Colonel Huger married the second daughter of General Thomas Pinckney who had effected
his release from Olmütz and under whom he fought in the war of 1812; he had eleven children
and made his home on a large estate in the highlands of South Carolina. When Congress presented
Lafayette with an extensive section of land, he asked Huger to share it with him. Colonel Huger
thanked him for the generous offer, but sturdily announced that he himself was able to provide
for his daughters and that his sons should look out for themselves. His faith in his sons was
justified, for they made good their father's opinion of their ability. Among his children and
grandchildren were many who not only amassed goodly fortunes but held honored positions in
public and military affairs.

When Lafayette made his memorable visit to America in 1824, he said that the one man in the
country whom he most wished to see was the one who when a youth had attempted to rescue him
from Olmütz. Colonel Huger had a corresponding desire to see Lafayette. On the General's arrival
he started north at once, reached New York, and sought out the lodgings of Lafayette early
in the morning, in order that their first meeting might be entirely without interruption. No
account of that meeting has ever been made public, but the rescuer and his champion were together
most of the time during that patriotic journey. Josiah Quincy once had the privilege of driving
Colonel Huger in his coach through the suburbs of Boston and of calling with him upon many
distinguished personages. Huger charmed and delighted every one. Josiah Quincy said that he
had that "charm of a high-bred southerner which wrought with such peculiar fascination upon
those inheriting Puritan blood." Besides his attractive personality, there was the romantic
association with the attempted rescue. Scott's novels were then in the full blossom of popularity;
but there was no hero in all those brave tales whose adventures appeared more chivalrous and
thrilling.

To be sure, the effort at rescue had resulted in failure. Lafayette remained in prison. But
it was known where he was, and, what was better, word had been conveyed to him that he was
not forgotten. Yet the conditions of his imprisonment were now more severe than before, and
his mind must have suffered intensely from being thrown back upon itself after that one hour's
prospect of liberty.

On the way from Wesel to Magdeburg Lafayette had had a moment's conversation with a stranger
who told him something of what was happening in Paris, and of the lawlessness and carnage of
the Reign of Terror. Lafayette saw to what lengths an unregulated mob might go, even when originally
inspired by a noble passion for liberty. He heard of the death of Louis XVI, and called it
an assassination. He realized that these things were being done in France by the people in
whom he had so blindly, so persistently, believed. He was deeply disappointed. Yet he did not
quite lose faith. The cause of the people was still sacred to him; they might destroy for him
whatever charm there had been in what he called the "delicious sensation of the smile of the
multitude"; but his belief in the ultimate outcome for democratic government, as the best form
of government for the whole world, remained unchanged.

And in the prison at Olmütz he celebrated our great holiday, the Fourth of July, as usual.

CHAPTER XVII

A WELCOME RELEASE

More than a year had passed after the attempt at rescue when one day Lafayette heard the big
keys turning in the several locks, one after another, that barred his cell, and in a moment
his wife and two daughters stood before his amazed eyes! Could this be true, or was it a vision?

It will be remembered that shortly after Lafayette's arrest he had heard that Madame de Lafayette
was imprisoned and was in danger of perishing on the scaffold. A year later the news was smuggled
to him that she was still alive. But what had been happening to her and to his three children
during all these dismal years?

Through the instrumentality of James Monroe, the ambassador to France from the United States,--the
only foreign power that in the days of the French Revolution would send its representative,--Madame
de Lafayette was liberated from an imprisonment that tried her soul, even as Olmütz had proved
and tested the spirit of her husband. Through all those tragic months Adrienne showed herself
a woman of high and unswerving courage.

Now, indeed, was the American citizenship of her husband--and it had included his family also--of
value to her. Madame de Lafayette's first letter to Mr. Monroe shows this. This dignified letter
is preserved in the manuscript department of the New York Public Library and is here printed
for the first time:

"Having learned that a minister of the United States has recently arrived in France, who has
been sent by his government and invested with powers representing a people in whose interests
I have some rights that are dear to my heart, I have felt that such misfortunes as I have not
already suffered were no longer to be feared for me, that the most unjust of captivities was
about to be at an end, and that my sufferings accompanied by irreproachable conduct towards
the principles and towards the laws of my country, cause me to have confidence in the name
of this protecting nation at a moment when the voice of justice is once more heard, and when
the National Convention is undertaking to deliver such patriots as have been unjustly imprisoned.
I have begun to hope that the wishes of my heart shall be fulfilled--that I may be returned
to my children. For ten months I have been taken away from them. From the very moment of their
birth they have heard that they have a second country, and they have the right to hope that
they will be protected by it."

Through the official authority of Mr. Monroe, Madame de Lafayette was given money and passports.
When Washington first heard of her plight, he sent her a reverent letter inclosing a thousand
dollars, and he was unceasing in his correspondence with representatives in France and England
for herself as well as for Lafayette. She sent her son, George Washington de Lafayette, to
his illustrious namesake in America, and as "Madame Motier, of Hartford, Connecticut," she,
with her two young daughters, made her way to Hamburg where, instead of taking ship for America,
she took carriage across the wide spaces of Germany and Austria. Here she gained an audience
with the emperor, and bowing at his feet asked permission to go to the fortress of Olmütz and
stay with her husband until he was set free.

"Your request is granted," he said; "but as for Lafayette--I cannot free him; my hands are
tied." Exactly what it was that had "tied the hands" of the great potentate has never been
revealed.

Her petition being granted, Madame de Lafayette continued her journey. Two days more and she
and her daughters were with her husband.

The day of their meeting was spent in trying to bear the joy of the reunion. Not until the
daughters were sent to their cell did she tell Lafayette of the sad things that had happened.
Her mother, her grandmother, and her sister had, with many friends and relatives, been led
to the scaffold. These and many other facts of tragic interest to the man so long deprived
of any word from outside his prison were shared with Lafayette.

It may go without saying that Lafayette's prison days were now far easier to bear, except that
to see Madame de Lafayette grow more and more broken in health as days went on, in their close,
unlighted, and malodorous cells, must have caused an added sorrow. After a time she was obliged
to ask the emperor to allow her to go to Vienna for medical attendance. He granted the request,
but with the proviso that she should never return. Then she decided to remain with her husband,
even at the risk of her life.

Shall the miseries of their prison life be dwelt upon? Their jailers were the coarsest of human
beings. They surpassed in brutality the slave drivers of Constantinople. The food, which the
family bought for themselves, was coarse and miserably cooked. Tobacco floated in the coffee.
Lafayette's clothes were in tatters. When his shoes had been soled fifteen times and resented
the indignity any further, his daughter Anastasie took it upon herself to make shoes for him
out of an old coat.

Lafayette's dingy cell was, however, now brightened by companionship and by inspiring conversation.
Even work was going on, for Madame de Lafayette prepared a life of her mother while she was
at Olmütz. It was written with a toothpick and a little lampblack on the margins of a copy
of Buffon which she succeeded in obtaining. One of the daughters amused the family by making
pencil sketches; one of the burly old turnkey, with his sword, candle, and keys, and his hair
in a comical queue behind, amused the family very much and was carried with them when they
left their dismal abode.

Before the desolate prison of Olmütz fades from our view, let one laurel wreath be placed upon
the head of young Felix Pontonnier, sixteen years old when he became the servant of Lafayette,
whom he faithfully followed into prison. He was with Lafayette when he was arrested and was
bidden to look after his master's belongings; so he was separated from him for several days.
This gave him an excellent opportunity to escape, but he refused to take advantage of it. Of
his own accord he joined Lafayette once more, and during the whole long season of his captivity
he gave ample proof of his devotion. He possessed a rare inventive genius and was constantly
on the alert to devise means for making the prisoners comfortable and to find out ways for
carrying on secret correspondence. He invented a special language known only to himself and
to the prisoners, and also a unique gesture-language. He whistled notes like a captive bird;
with varied modulations he conveyed to the prisoners whatever news he could ferret out. Prison
life proved to be bad for him, and his health was several times endangered. For a fancied offense
he was once confined in total darkness for three months. But none of his sufferings dashed
his gay spirits. He was constantly sustained by a buoyant cheer, and his wonderful devotion
should win him a place among heroes. After the five years of captivity were over, Lafayette
made Felix the manager of his farm at La Grange. He filled this position with success and probity.

It was through the fiat of Napoleon Bonaparte that the removal of Lafayette from Olmütz was
made possible. Bonaparte was influenced by a long-sighted policy; he desired to win to himself
the man of so unique a personality. He was also spurred on by various writers and diplomats,
by representatives of the French Directory, and by Brigadier General Henri Jacques Guillaume
Clarke, who was for a time governor of Vienna and who won the title of "the incorruptible"
from Napoleon. President Washington's dignified and effective letter to the Emperor of Austria
is believed to have left its mark; and in a thousand ways public opinion had awakened to the
ignominy of leaving such a man as Lafayette in prison. Lafayette disliked to be indebted to
anybody but himself for an escape from his dungeon; but he willingly admitted that he owed
much to his devoted wife whose many letters imploring help for her husband were among the causes
that unlocked the double-barred doors of Olmütz.

When finally released, Lafayette was taken in a carriage from Olmütz to Dresden, thence by
way of Dresden, Leipzig, and Halle to Hamburg, where the American consul received him. So wearied
was Madame de Lafayette that she made the journey with the greatest difficulty, and a voyage
to America at that time was out of the question. The family, therefore, took refuge in an obscure
town in Holland, since there was no other European country where the monarchy would be safe
if it conferred the right of residence upon any man who bore the name of Lafayette.

CHAPTER XVIII

A TRIUMPHAL TOUR

For some years events did not shape themselves so that Lafayette could return to Paris. That
he, in 1799, was considering the possibility of a voyage to America is shown by a letter written
in that year to his "deliverer," Francis Kinloch Huger, which his descendant of the same name
has kindly allowed to be printed here. It was sent from Vianen in Holland, and introduces his
fellow-prisoner, M. Bureaux-de-Pusy, who was seeking a home in the United States.

                                       VIANEN, 17th April, 1799.
    MY DEAR HUGER:

    Here is one of my companions in captivity, Bureaux Pusy,
    an Olmütz prisoner, and at these sounds my heart vibrates
    with the sentiments of love, gratitude, admiration, which
    forever bind and devote me to you! How I envy the
    happiness he is going to enjoy! How I long, my dear and
    noble friend, to fold you in my arms! Pusy will relate to
    you the circumstances which hitherto have kept me on this
    side of the Atlantic--even now the illness of my wife,
    and the necessity of her having been a few weeks in France
    before I set out, prevent me from embarking with Pusy and
    his amiable family. But in the course of the summer I
    shall look over to you and with inexpressible delight I
    shall be welcomed by my beloved deliverer. No answer from
    you has yet come to me. We are expecting every day my
    friend McHenry's nephew--perhaps I may be blessed with a
    letter from you!

    I need not recommend to you Bureaux Pusy. The conspicuous
    and honorable part he has acted in the French Revolution,
    his sufferings during our imprisonment--you but too well
    know what it is--are sufficient introductions to your
    great and good heart. He is one of the most accomplished
    men that can do honour to the country where he is born,
    and to the country where he wishes to become a citizen. He
    is my excellent friend. Every service, every mark of
    affection he can receive from you and your friends, I am
    happily authorized to depend upon.

    My son is gone to Paris. My wife and my two daughters, who
    love you as a brother, present you with the sincere,
    grateful expressions of their friendship. The last word
    George told me at his setting out was not to forget him in
    my letter to you. He will accompany me to America.

    Adieu, my dear Huger, I shall to the last moment of my
    life be wholly

                                           Yours,
                                              LAFAYETTE.

The wish to revisit the land of his adoption was strong, but many years were to pass before
it could be carried out. He was forty years old when he was liberated from Olmütz, and he was
sixty-seven when he paid his last visit to our shores.

He little dreamed of the reception he was to find, for the whole American people were waiting
to greet, with heart and soul, the man who, in his youth, had taken so noble a part in their
struggle for freedom. He reached New York on the 16th of August, 1824. He came with modest
expectation of some honorable attentions--nothing more. On the Cadmus he asked a fellow-traveler
about the cost of stopping at American hotels and of traveling in steamboats and by stage;
of this his secretary, M. Levasseur, made exact note. He came to visit the interesting scenes
of his youth and to enjoy a reunion with a few surviving friends and compatriots. Instead,
he found a whole country arising with one vast impulse to do him honor. It was not mere formality;
it was a burst of whole-souled welcome from an entire nation. So astonished was he, so overcome,
to find a great demonstration awaiting him, where he had expected to land quietly and to engage
private lodgings, that his eyes overflowed with tears.

The harbor of New York was entered on a Sunday. He was asked to accept a sumptuous entertainment
on Staten Island till Monday, when he could be received by the city with more honor. On that
day citizens and officers, together with old Revolutionary veterans, attended him. Amid the
shouting of two hundred thousand voices he reached the Battery. The band played "See the Conquering
Hero Comes," the "Marseillaise," and "Hail, Columbia." Lafayette had never dreamed of such
a reception or of such sweeps of applause. The simple-hearted loyalty of the American people
had a chance to show itself, and their enthusiasm knew no bounds. Lafayette's face beamed with
joy. Four white horses bore him to the City Hall, while his son, George Washington Lafayette,
his secretary, M. Levasseur (who wrote an account of the whole journey of 1824), and the official
committee followed in carriages. The mayor addressed the city's guest; and Lafayette's reply
was the first of many hundred appropriate and graceful speeches made by him during the journey.
There were many ceremonies; school children threw garlands of flowers in his way; corner stones
were laid by him; squares were renamed for "General Lafayette" (as he assured everybody he
preferred to be called by that title), and societies made him and his son honorary members
for life.

Hundreds of invitations to visit different cities poured in. The whole country must be traveled
over to satisfy the eagerness of a grateful nation. Are republics ungrateful? That can never
be said of our own republic after Lafayette's visit to the United States in 1824.

He set out for Boston by way of New Haven, New London, and Providence. All along the way the
farmers ran out from the fields, shouting welcomes to the cavalcade, and children stood by
the roadside decked with ribbons on which the picture of Lafayette was printed. Always a barouche
with four white horses was provided to carry him from point to point. It was not a bit of vanity
on the part of Lafayette that he was ever seen behind these steeds of snowy white. President
Washington had set the fashion. His fine carriage-horses he caused to be covered with a white
paste on Saturday nights and the next morning to be smoothed down till they shone like silver.
It was a wonderful sight when that majestic man was driven to church--the prancing horses,
the outriders, and all. And when Lafayette came, nothing was too good for him! The towns sent
out the whitest horses harnessed to the best coaches procurable,--cream color, canary color,
or claret color,--for the hero to be brought into town or sped upon his way departing. Returning
to New York by way of the Connecticut River and the Sound, he found again a series of dinners
and toasts, as well as a ball held in Castle Garden, the like of which, in splendor and display,
had never before been thought of in this New World.

Lafayette left the festivity before it was ever in order to take the boat, at two in the morning,
to go up the Hudson River. He arose at six to show his son and his secretary the place where
André was captured. As soon as the fog lifted, he described, in the most enthusiastic manner,
the Revolutionary events which he had seen.

At West Point there was a grand banquet. One of the speakers alluded to the fact that at Valley
Forge, when the soldiers were going barefooted, Lafayette provided them with shoes from his
own resources, and then proposed this toast:

"To the noble Frenchman who placed the Army of the Revolution on a new and better footing!"

At the review of the cadets, Generals Scott and Brown, in full uniform, with tall plumes in
their hats, stood by General Lafayette. The three, each towering nearly six feet in height,
made a magnificent tableau, declares one record of the day.

Returning from the Hudson River excursion, the party went southward, visiting Philadelphia,
Baltimore, and Washington. With ceremonies of great dignity Congress received Lafayette, and
later voted him a present of two hundred thousand dollars, together with a whole township anywhere
he might choose in the unappropriated lands of the country.

Among other places visited was Yorktown, where the party attended a brilliant celebration.
The marks of battle were still to be seen on many houses, and broken shells and various implements
of war were found scattered about. An arch had been built where Lafayette stormed the redoubt,
and on it were inscribed the names of Lafayette, Hamilton, and Laurens. Some British candles
were discovered in the corner of a cellar, and these were burned to the sockets while the old
soldiers told tales of the surrender of Yorktown.

The party visited other places connected with the campaign in Virginia. Lafayette called on
ex-President Jefferson at Monticello, his stately home near Charlottesville, Virginia, and
was conducted by Jefferson to the University of Virginia in Charlottesville.

Charleston was the next stopping-place; this was the home of the Huger family. Here were more
combinations of "Yankee Doodle" and the "Marseillaise," more laying of corner stones, more
deputations, more dinners, more public balls. It is not difficult to understand how it happened
that, in the last half of the nineteenth century, there were so many old ladies living who
could boast of having danced with Lafayette in their youth.

Proceeding on their way by boat and carriage, the company came to Savannah, and thence moved
across Georgia and Alabama, down the river to the Gulf of Mexico, along the shore to the mouth
of the Mississippi, and up the "grand rivière" to St. Louis. "Vive Lafayette" was the universal
cry all the way.

All the cities vied with each other in doing honor to the nation's guest. At Pittsburg, for
instance, a bedroom was prepared for the distinguished visitor in a hall that had been a Masonic
lodge room. The ceiling was arched, and the sun, moon, and stars were painted upon it. The
bed prepared for Lafayette was a vast "four-poster" of mahogany, on whose posts were inscribed
the names of Revolutionary heroes. Above the canopy a large gilt eagle spread its wings and
waved a streamer on which were written the names of Washington and Lafayette. In this city,
as everywhere, Lafayette was shown everything notable, including all the foundries and factories.

As usual, the hero left the city in a coach shining with the freshest paint, and drawn by four
white steeds.

At Buffalo, after a visit to Niagara, they embarked on the newly-built Erie Canal. Then followed
a part of the journey that was much enjoyed by Lafayette--the beautiful country of central
New York. He was charmed with this bit of travel after the long distances between towns in
the western region.

Syracuse was the next stopping-place. The carriage in which Lafayette traveled into that City
of Sixty Hills was kept for many decades as a precious treasure. Not many years ago it was
in a barn back of one of the houses on James Street in that city. Now, however, after wandering
from place to place and taking part in various pageants, it may be seen in the celebrated village
of Cooperstown, where the young folks, when they attire themselves in Revolutionary costume,
may ride as bride or coachman, as shown in the picture.

Lafayette reached the "Village of Syracuse" at six o'clock in the morning. The people had been
watching all night for the arrival of the illustrious guest and were still watching when the
colors of the illuminations were melting into those of sunrise. The guest of honor had been
in his carriage all night and must have been weary, but he gayly asserted that the splendid
supper that had been prepared the night before made an excellent breakfast, and he spent the
three hours allotted to that "village" in shaking hands with the hundreds of people whose desire
to see him had kept them waiting all night.

At nine o'clock he bade good-by to his friends of a day and embarked upon the packet boat of
the canal, while the air resounded with good wishes for his voyage. Through Rome they passed
by night in an illumination that turned darkness into daylight, and at every place they received
deputations from the city just ahead of the one where they were. There were cannon to welcome
and cannon to bid farewell. At Utica three Oneida chiefs demanded an interview on the score
of having been Lafayette's helpers in 1778. They were very old but still remarkably energetic.
Lafayette begged them to accept certain gifts of silver, and they went away happy.

The traveling was now hastened in order that General Lafayette might reach Boston by the Fourth
of July, 1825, and take part in laying the corner stone of Bunker Hill Monument. This event
in our national history has been described by Josiah Quincy in his "Figures of the Past" and
by many others. It was a great national celebration, and a general meeting of Revolutionary
comrades, one of whom wore the same coat he had worn at the battle of Bunker Hill, almost half
a century before, and could point to nine bullet-holes in its texture. Daniel Webster delivered
his grand oration. All Boston was on the alert. There were a thousand tents on the Common,
and a dinner to which twelve hundred persons sat down. General Lafayette gave a reception to
the ladies of the city. Then there was a ball--with the usual honor bestowed. Everybody was
proud and happy to have General Lafayette as a national guest on that great day.

One more incident must be related. In July of 1825 the people of Brooklyn were erecting an
Apprentices' Free Library Building at the corner of Cranberry and Henry streets, later incorporated
in the Brooklyn Institute, and they wished Lafayette to assist in laying the corner stone.
He was brought to Brooklyn in great state, riding in a canary-colored coach drawn by four snow-white
horses. The streets were crammed with people. Among them were many citizens and their wives,
some old Revolutionary veterans, troops of Brooklyn children, and a number of negroes who had
been freed by the recent New York Emancipation Acts.

Through the closely packed masses of people the carriage of the noble Frenchman was slowly
driven, the antics of the impatient horses attracting the attention of the small boy as much
as the illustrious visitor himself. As they came near the stand where the ceremony was to take
place, Lafayette saw that various gentlemen were carefully lifting some little children over
the rough places where soil from excavations and piles of cut stone had been heaped, and were
helping them to safe places where they could see and hear. He at once alighted from the carriage
and came forward to assist in this work.

Without suspecting it in the least, he was making another historic minute; for one of the boys
he was thus to lift over a hard spot was a five-year-old child who afterwards became known
to the world as Walt Whitman. Lafayette pressed the boy to his heart as he passed him along
and affectionately kissed his cheek. Thus a champion of liberty from the Old World and one
from the New were linked in this little act of helpfulness. When he was an old man, Whitman
still treasured the reminiscence as one of indescribable preciousness.

"I remember Lafayette's looks quite well," he said; "tall, brown, not handsome in the face,
but of fine figure, and the pattern of good-nature, health, manliness, and human attraction."

Through nearly all of this long and exciting journey, Lafayette was accompanied by Colonel
Francis Kinloch Huger, by his secretary, and by his son, George Washington Lafayette, then
a man full grown. The latter was almost overcome by the warmth of his father's reception. Writing
to a friend at home, after having been in America but twenty days, he said:

"Ever since we have been here my father has been the hero, and we the spectators, of the most
imposing, beautiful, and affecting sights; the most majestic population in the world welcoming
a man with common accord and conducting him in triumph throughout a journey of two hundred
leagues. Women wept with joy on seeing him, and children risked being crushed to get near to
a man whom their fathers kept pointing out to them as one of those who contributed the most
in procuring them their happiness and independence. This is what it has been reserved to us
to see. I am knocked off my feet--excuse the expression--by the emotions of all kinds that
I experience."

Lafayette has been accused of being a spoiled hero. In a moment of asperity Jefferson had alluded
to Lafayette's love of approbation. If, indeed, Lafayette did yield to that always imminent
human frailty, and if Olmütz had not been able to eradicate or subdue it, the itinerary of
1824 must have been to him a period of torture. He must have suffered from satiety to an unbearable
degree, for praise and admiration were poured out by a grateful people to an extent not easily
imagined. To keep up a fiction is the most wearying thing in the world. The only refreshing
and vivifying thing is to be absolutely sincere. This it must be believed Lafayette was. His
simple attitude toward the land of his adoption was shown in a letter to President Monroe in
which he bade farewell to a nation where "in every man, woman, and child of a population of
twelve million I have found a loving, indeed an enthusiastic, friend."

It did as much good to the American people as it did to Lafayette to take part in this great
tide of gratitude and devotion. A vast, swelling emotion is unifying and it is strengthening.
Our people made a great stride toward nationalization when Lafayette came to let us, as a people,
throw our heart at his feet.

CHAPTER XIX

LAST DAYS OF LAFAYETTE

Mingled with the joys of Lafayette's visit to the United States in 1824 there was one profound
sorrow; he no longer saw here the great man to whom he had given such whole-hearted devotion.
President Washington died in 1799; and one of the most affecting moments of all the journey
of 1824 was when General Lafayette and his son, George Washington Lafayette, stood together
by the tomb of the man whom both regarded as a father.

On the centennial anniversary of the birth of Washington, in 1832, the 27th Regiment State
Artillery of New York sent Lafayette a magnificent commemorative medal. In acknowledgment of
this gift Lafayette wrote to the Committee, calling the gift "a new testimony of that persevering
affection which has been, during nearly sixty years, the pride and delight of my life to be
the happy object. The only merit on my part which it does not exceed is to be found in the
warmth of my gratitude and the patriotic devotion that binds to the United States the loving
heart of an adopted son. The honor was enhanced by the occasion--the birthday of the matchless
Washington, of whom it is the most gratifying circumstance to have been the beloved and faithful
disciple."

This attitude Lafayette never failed to hold. The relation between the two men was from beginning
to end honorable to both in the highest degree. It was one of the great friendships of history.

In one respect the private tastes of Washington and Lafayette were similar; both dearly loved
a farm. No one can visit Mount Vernon without feeling the presence there of a lover of growing
things. From this productive place fine hams and bacon were forwarded to Lafayette and his
family in France and were there eaten with the keenest relish. Fine birds were also sent--ducks,
pheasants, and red partridges. In return Lafayette dispatched by request some special breeds
of wolf hounds and a pair of jackasses; also, strange trees and plants, together with varied
gifts such as Paris only could devise. The visitor to Mount Vernon finds in the family dining
room Lafayette's ornamental clock and rose jars, and his mahogany chair in Mrs. Washington's
sitting room. The key to the Bastille, which he sent in 1789, is shown under a glass cover
on the wall by the staircase in the entrance hall, and a model of that ancient fortress of
tyranny, made from a block of stone from the renowned French prison, sent over in 1793, stands
in happy irony in the banquet hall. A bedchamber on the second floor is pointed out as the
room in which Lafayette slept. It still bears his name.

After Lafayette returned to France, he lived for years in semi-exile on an estate known as
La Grange, that Madame de Lafayette had inherited. It lay about forty miles east of Paris,
in a beautiful country covered with peach orchards and vineyards. At the time it was, from
an agricultural point of view, in a sadly neglected condition; and it was not by any means
the least of the achievements of Lafayette that he turned his hand cleverly to the great task
of developing this estate into a really productive farm, and succeeded. Beginning with a single
plow--for he was too poor at first to buy numerous appliances--he gradually developed the estate
into a valuable property. After a time he supplied himself with fine breeds of cattle, sheep,
and pigs; indeed, specimens of various kinds from all zones of the earth were sent him by his
friends the American shipmasters, who, it must be remembered, appreciated the ardent efforts
he had made to establish American commerce. To Washington, who was a good farmer as well as
a good President, every detail of these labors would have been interesting if he had been living.

In patriarchal happiness Lafayette carried on the estate of eight hundred French acres, with
all its industries, in a perfect system. In a fine old mansion built in the days of Louis IX,
Lafayette lived with his two daughters and their families under an efficient household system.
Sometimes twelve cousins, brothers and sisters, would be there together. The combined family
formed a perfect little academy of its own; and just to live at La Grange was an education
in itself. The walls were covered with pictures and memorabilia, to know which would mean to
understand European and American history for a century past. A picture of Washington had the
place of honor. The Declaration of Independence and the Declaration of Rights were hung side
by side. A miniature of Francis Kinloch Huger in a frame of massive gold was among the treasures.
Dress swords, gifts of many kinds, symbols of honors, and rich historical records decorated
the whole house. Even the name of the estate, La Grange, was American, for it was so called
in honor of the Manhattan Island home of his friend Alexander Hamilton.

There was one room in the château at La Grange that was more sacred than any other; it was
the room in which Madame de Lafayette had died. This chamber was never entered except on the
anniversary of her death, and then by her husband alone, who cherished her memory tenderly
and faithfully as long as he lived.

Many wonderful visitors came to La Grange, and in later years to the Paris home of the Lafayettes.
There were Irish guests to tell tales of romance; there were Poles to plead the cause of their
country; misguided American Indians were sometimes stranded there; Arabs from Algeria; negro
officers in uniform from the French West Indies--all people who had the passion for freedom
in their hearts naturally and inevitably gravitated to Lafayette. His house was a modern Babel,
for all languages of the world were spoken there.

And Americans! So many Americans came along the Rosay Road that little boys learned the trick
of meeting any foreign-looking persons who spoke bad French, and announced themselves as guides
of all the "Messieurs Americains"; they would capture the portmanteau, swing it up to a strong
shoulder, and then set out for the château at the regular jog trot of a well-trained porter.

One of these American guests was the grandson of General Nathanael Greene with whom Lafayette
had had cordial relations during the Virginia campaign. In the year 1828 this grandson visited
La Grange and wrote an account full of delightful, intimate touches, which was printed in the
Atlantic Monthly in 1861. Of Lafayette himself he said:

"In person he was tall and strongly built, with broad shoulders, large limbs, and a general
air of strength.... He had more dignity of bearing than any man I ever saw. And it was not
merely the dignity of self-possession, which early familiarity with society and early habits
of command may give even to an ordinary man, but that elevation of manner which springs from
an habitual elevation of thought, bearing witness to the purity of its source, as a clear eye
and ruddy cheek bear witness to the purity of the air you daily breathe. In some respects he
was the mercurial Frenchman to the last day of his life; yet his general bearing, that comes
oftenest to my memory, was of calm earnestness, tempered and mellowed by quick sympathies."

The death of Lafayette, on the 20th of May, 1834, set the bells a-tolling in many lands, but
in none was the mourning more sincere than in our own. Members of Congress were commanded to
wear the badge of sorrow for thirty days, and thousands of the people joined them in this outward
expression of the sincere grief of their hearts.

His services to his own country and to ours were many and valuable. But his personal example
of character, integrity, and constancy was even more to us and to the world than his distinct
services. What he was endeared him to us, even more than the things he did. He gave his whole
soul in youth to his world-wide dream of freedom--freedom under a constitution guaranteeing
it, through public order, to every human being. He found himself in a world where monarchical
government seemed the destiny and habit of mankind. He thought it a bad habit--one that ought
to be broken. Sincerely and passionately believing this, he was willing to die in the service
of any people who were ready to make the struggle against the existing national traditions.
He made mistakes; he made the mistake of trusting Louis Philippe. In doing this he had with
him the whole French people. But let it be said on the other hand that he did not make the
mistake of trusting Bonaparte, whose blandishments he resisted during the whole passage of
that meteor. And he was making no mistake when, to the very end of his life, he remained true
to his love for the land he had aided in his youth. His visions did not all come true in exactly
the shape he devised, but to the last he retained a glorious confidence that they would ultimately
be realized in full.

Lafayette was absolutely fearless. He had physical bravery; he was equally indomitable in moral
and intellectual realms. He had the power of courage. He could decide quickly and then stand
by the decision to the bitter end. The essence of his bold, adventurous youth is expressed
in the motto he then chose, "Cur non." But the confirmed and tried spirit of his full manhood
is more truly set forth in another motto: "Fais ce que dois, advienne que pourra." "Do what
you ought, let come what may."

For a man so possessed by a great, world-wide idea, so fearless, so constant, it is quite fitting
that monuments should be erected and that his birthday should be celebrated. Probably there
is no man in all history who has had so many cities, counties, townships, boulevards, arcades,
mountains, villages, and hamlets named for him, in a country to which he was not native-born,
as has the Frenchman Lafayette in the United States of America. Also, many notable statues
of Lafayette stand in city squares and halls of art, both in our country and in his own. Among
them there is one special statue in which the young people of America have a peculiar interest.
On the 19th of October, 1898, five millions of American school children contributed to a Lafayette
Monument Fund. With this sum a bronze statue was made and presented to the French Republic.
Mr. Paul Wayland Bartlett was the sculptor intrusted with this work. The statue was completed
in 1908 and placed in a court of the Louvre in Paris. It was originally intended that the statue
of Bonaparte should occupy the center of that beautiful court, but it is the statue of Lafayette
that stands there--the "Boy" Cornwallis could not catch, the man Napoleon could not intimidate.
No one can tell us just how Lafayette's statue happened to be assigned the place intended for
Napoleon's; but however it was, the fact is a luminous example of how a man who loved people
only to master and subjugate them did not reach the heart of the world so directly as the man
who loved human beings for their own sakes and to do them good.

Printed in the United States of America.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following pages contain advertisements of Macmillan books by the same author.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRUE STORIES OF GREAT AMERICANS

"Should be read by every boy and girl."

This important new series of brief and vivid biographies will give to the young mind an intimate
picture of the greatest Americans who have helped to make American history. In each instance
the author has been chosen either because he is particularly interested in the subject of the
biography, or is connected with him by blood ties and possessed, therefore, of valuable facts.
Only those, however, who have shown that they have an appreciation of what makes really good
juvenile literature have been entrusted with a volume. In each case they have written with
a child's point of view in mind, those events being emphasized which are calculated to appeal
to the younger reader, making a full and well-balanced narrative, yet always authentic.

"Most admirable in their construction and purpose. The volumes are interesting and attractive
in appearance, graphic in style, and wonderfully inspiring in subject matter, reaching an enviable
mark in juvenile literature."--Philadelphia Public Ledger.

"Far away from the 'dry as dust' type of biography."--San Francisco Bulletin.

"Simply and attractively told.... Especially interesting to children."--Christian Advocate.

"An excellent series."--New York Sun.

See the following pages for descriptions of the individual books of this series.

The Lives of National Heroes Told in a New Way for Children

EACH VOLUME ILLUSTRATED, $.50

    Christopher Columbus      By Mildred Stapley

Mildred Stapley has consulted new and recently discovered sources of contemporary information,
and the history of Columbus' voyages is revised and corrected, though the romance and excitement
still glow through the record of his achievements, and his fame as a daring navigator remains
an example of courage and unequalled valor.

    Captain John Smith        By Rossiter Johnson

The adventurous Captain who founded Virginia lived the life of a typical hero of romance--Soldier
of Fortune in America, Europe, Asia, and Africa, pirate, slave, and friend of princes. He was
an able executive and a man of energy and capacity.

    William Penn              By Rupert S. Holland

The life of William Penn is of especial interest and value because the events of his career
are closely related to American and English history at a time when America was separating herself
from her parent country and shaping her destiny as an independent Republic.

    Benjamin Franklin         By E. Lawrence Dudley

As a statesman, diplomat, scientist, philosopher, and man of letters, Benjamin Franklin was
the foremost American of his time. The story of his life is an inspiring and stimulating narrative,
with all the fascination and interest of Colonial and Revolutionary America.

New Illustrated Biographies for Young People

EACH VOLUME ILLUSTRATED, $.50

    Thomas A. Edison          By Francis Rolt-Wheeler

Thomas Alva Edison is the typical American. From boyhood to ripest manhood he has been keen
to see an opportunity, and quick to turn that opportunity to a practical use. His genius is
peculiar because it is so American.

    Robert Fulton             By Alice C. Sutcliffe

The life of Robert Fulton makes good reading. The story of his belief in and work upon a submarine
and his journeys to France and England to lay his plans before the British Government--his
steamboat, and the years of study and labor which went toward perfecting it--his paintings--his
travels in foreign lands in days when American travellers were few--combine to make one of
the most interesting and inspiring books of the series.

    Robert E. Lee             By Bradley Gilman

Robert E. Lee ranks with the greatest of all English-speaking military leaders. Bradley Gilman
has told the story of his life so as to reveal the greatness and true personality of a man
"who has left an enduring memory of the highest idealism."

    Davy Crockett             By William C. Sprague

No fictitious tale of perils and adventures could surpass the true story of Davy Crockett,
pioneer. His life and adventures are closely bound up with the greatest events of American history.

    Nathan Hale               By Jean Christie Root

There is hardly another story in the whole range of American history which contains so much
of inspiration and splendid heroism as that of Nathan Hale.

"There is more than the work of a gifted biographer here. There is a message."--New York World.

    U.S. Grant                By F.E. Lovell Coombs

There is but little fiction which can compare in interest with the true story of Ulysses S.
Grant. Mr. Coombs has told it admirably.

    Abraham Lincoln           By Daniel E. Wheeler

Another view of the greatest product of American democracy. The inspiring story of the great
war President told with spirit in a new way.

    NEW VOLUMES

    Daniel Boone              By Lucile Gulliver

    La Salle                  By Louise S. Hasbrouck

    Lafayette                 By Martha F. Crow

    THE MACMILLAN COMPANY
    Publishers      64-66 Fifth Avenue      New York

       *       *       *       *       *

List of Illustrations and Illustration Captions have been made consistent to each other as follows.

"Portrait of Lafayette"--Caption has been extended from "Lafayette".

"A Carriage in which Lafayette Rode" entry in the List of Illustrations has been extended from
"Lafayette's Carriage".

On page 109 "Yorktown was now familar to Lafayette" has been corrected to "Yorktown was now
familiar to Lafayette".

In the song quoted on page 141 the last line "Et qui s'abaisse, on l'évèra." has been changed
to "Et qui s'abaisse, on l'élèvera."

All other spelling, punctuation, grammatical and typesetting errors have been left as they
were in the original book.

