VOL. I.--NO. 40. They then rowed down the river to the steamboat landing, where they left their
boat in charge of a boatman, and went to a hotel for breakfast. The waiters were rather astonished
at the tremendous appetites displayed by the four sunburned boys, and there is no doubt that
the landlord lost money that morning. After breakfast, Harry went to the express office, where
he found a large water-proof India rubber bag, which the Department had sent in answer to his
letter. At the post-office were letters from home for all the boys, and a postal order for
ten dollars from Uncle John for the use of the expedition. Harry had no idea that this money
would be needed, but it subsequently proved to be very useful.

Quite a quantity of stores were bought at Albany, for the voyage up the Hudson had lasted longer
than any one had supposed it would, and the provisions were getting low. No unnecessary time
was spent in buying these stores, for a fair wind was blowing, and all the boys were anxious
to take advantage of it. By ten o'clock they were again afloat, and soon after noon they reached
Troy, and entered the canal.

The canal basin was crowded with canal-boats, and to avoid accidents the Whitewing's mast was
taken down, and the oars were got out. Harry knew that, in order to pass through the locks,
it would be necessary to pay toll, and to procure an order from the canal authorities directing
the lock-men to permit the Whitewing to pass. The canal boatmen, of whom he made inquiries,
told him where to find the office, which was some little distance up the canal. When the office
was reached, an officer came and inspected the boat, asked a great many questions about the
cruise up the Hudson, and seemed to be very much interested in the expedition. He told the
boys that the water was low in the Champlain Canal, and that the lock-men might not be willing
to open the locks for so small a boat; but that they could avoid all dispute by entering the
locks at the same time with some one of the many canal-boats that were on their way north.
He charged the Whitewing the enormous sum of twenty-five cents for tolls, and gave Harry an
important-looking order, by which the lock-men were directed to allow the skiff Whitewing,
Captain Harry Wilson, to pass through all the locks on the canal.

Thanking the pleasant officer, the boys pushed off. After they had passed the place where the
Champlain Canal branches off from the Erie Canal, they were no longer troubled by a crowd of
canal-boats, and were able to set the sail again. Unluckily, the mast was just a little too
high to pass under the bridges, and at the first bridge which they met they narrowly escaped
a capsize--Jim succeeding in getting the mast down only just in time to save it from striking
the bridge. They had hardly set sail again when another bridge came in sight, and they could
see just beyond it a third bridge. It would never do to stop at every bridge and unship the
mast, so Harry went on shore, borrowed a saw from a cooper's shop, and sawed six inches off
from the top of the mast, after which the bridges gave them no more trouble.

The boys were very much interested in passing the first lock. They slipped into the lock behind
a big canal-boat, which left just room enough between its rudder and the gate for the Whitewing.
When the lock-men shut the gate behind the boat, and opened the sluices in the upper gate,
the water rose slowly and steadily. The sides of the lock were so steep and black that the
boys felt very much as if they were at the bottom of a well; but it was not many minutes before
the water had risen so high that the upper gates were opened, and the big canal-boat and its
little follower were released.

Passing through a lock in a small boat, and in company with a canal-boat, is not a perfectly
safe thing to do, for if the ropes which fasten the canal-boat should break--which they sometimes
do--the water rushing in through the sluices would force the canal-boat against the lower gate,
and crush the small boat like an egg-shell. It is therefore best always to pass through a lock
alone, or in company with other small boats. The danger, however, is in reality very slight,
and very few accidents occur in canal locks.

The wind died away before sunset; and the boys having had only a light lunch, which they ate
on the boat, were glad to go ashore for supper. They bought some corn from a farmer, and roasted
it before the fire, while some nice slices of ham were frying, and the coffee-pot was boiling,
and so prepared a supper which they greatly enjoyed. The moon came up before they had finished
the meal, and they felt strongly tempted to make another attempt at night-work.

"I'll tell you what we can do," exclaimed Harry. "Instead of rowing, let's tow the boat. One
fellow can tow while another steers, and the rest can sleep in the boat."

"All right," said Joe. "I'm willing to be a mule. Only I'd like to know where my harness is
coming from."

"We've got rope enough for that," replied Harry. "I'll take the first turn, and tow for an
hour, while Joe steers; then I'll steer for an hour, while Joe tows. Then the other watch will
take charge of the boat for two hours, and Joe and I will sleep."

"If I'm to sleep on the bottom of that boat," said Joe, "I want some nice sharp stones to sleep
on. I'm tired of sleeping on coffee-pots, and want a change."

A long tow-line was soon rigged on Harry's shoulders in such a way that it did not chafe him;
a space in the bottom of the boat was cleared of coffee-pots and other uncomfortable articles,
and a pair of blankets was spread on the bottom board, so as to make a comfortable bed, which
Tom and Jim hastened to occupy. Joe took the yoke-lines in his hand, and called to Harry to
go ahead. When Harry first tugged at the tow-line, the boat seemed very heavy; but as soon
as she was in motion, Harry found that he could tow her as fast as he could walk, and without
any difficulty.

Had the locks been open and the canal-boats been out of the way, the experiment of towing the
Whitewing at night would have been very successful. As it happened, the locks were kept closed
during the night, because the water was low; and the canal-boats, not being able to pass the
locks, were moored to the tow-path. These boats gave Harry and Joe a great deal of trouble.
When one of them was met, Harry had to unharness himself and toss the rope into the boat, and
Joe had to get out an oar and scull around the obstacle. This happened so often that Tom and
Jim got very little sleep; and long before it was time for them to resume duty, a lock was
reached, and Harry had to call all hands to drag the boat around it.

This was a hard piece of work. First, all the heavy things had to be taken out of the boat
and carried around the lock. Then the boat had to be dragged out of the canal on to the tow-path,
hauled up a steep ascent, and launched above the upper gate. It took a good half-hour to pass
the first of these closed locks, and when the boat was again ready to start, it was time to
change the watch.

Tom and Jim had managed to get only a few minutes' sleep, but Harry and Joe could not sleep
a single wink. They had not "turned in" for more than ten minutes when another lock was reached.
This involved a second half-hour of hard work by all hands, and twenty minutes later three
more locks close together blocked the way. It was foolish to persevere in dragging the boat
around locks all night long; so, after getting her out of the canal on the side opposite to
the tow-path, the boys dragged her behind some bushes, where the canal boatmen could not see
her at daylight. They then spread their rubber blankets on the ground, and prepared to sleep
through the remaining four or five hours of darkness.

"Boys," said Joe, suddenly, "does it hurt a fat woman to jump on her?"

"Don't know," answered Harry. "What do you ask for?"

"Oh, nothing," said Joe. "Only when I was jumping from one canal-boat to another while I was
a mule, I landed awfully heavy on a fat woman who was sleeping on deck."

"What did she do?" asked Harry.

"She didn't do anything. She just muttered something that I could not understand, and I got
away as quickly as possible."

"Well, if she likes it, that's her business, not yours," suggested Harry. "Go to sleep, do!"

"I am going to sleep; but I don't think we ought to spend our nights in getting run down by
steamboats and jumping on strange fat women. I'm sure it isn't right. There, you needn't throw
any more shoes at me. I won't say another word."

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

SOME TRUE STORIES ABOUT STEEPLES.

BY C. F. M.

A great many years ago a hurricane occurred in Utica, New York. Just as it began it was noticed
that a heavy swing sign in front of a store was held out in a horizontal position for some time.

Before long the force of the wind increased to such a degree that several houses on Genesee
Street Hill were unroofed, and the spire of the Second Presbyterian Church was thrown to the
ground.

After the storm was over it was discovered that the rod holding the weather-vane on the top
of the tall steeple of the First Presbyterian Church was bent so that it became nearly horizontal.
It was unsightly; but how to repair the injury was the question. It would be no easy task,
as there was a large ball, or globe, on the rod below the vane. After a while a sailor offered
his services. He ascended the steeple, and climbed the rod until he came just beneath the globe.
Then he threw a rope out a good many times, until, after a while, the end looped around over
the rod, above the globe, long enough to reach to him. Twisting the rope together, he let go
of the iron rod, and trusting himself to the rope, swung out free. By climbing it he now managed
to get on the top of the globe. Standing there, he succeeded in straightening the rod that
held the weather-vane.

Now how was he to get down? Again trusting to the rope that was fastened to the rod above the
globe, he swung free at a great height from the earth; then lowering himself, and swinging
back and forth, he managed to grasp the rod beneath the globe, and soon reaching the spire,
descended.

The steeple of Salisbury Cathedral is the highest in England, and next to that of Strasbourg
Cathedral, the highest in Europe. Every year a man climbs to the top to grease the weather-vane.
This is done by ascending the inside as far as possible, and then going out of a manhole and
climbing the rest of the way by means of the brass staples fastened on the outer wall.

Once on a festal occasion, when the King was present, a reward was offered, as usual, to any
person who would ascend and attend to the weather-vane. A sailor agreed to do it, and ascended
in the way I have told you, until he came to the copestone, when, to show what he could do,
he stood on his head. Then performing the task he was sent to do, that of greasing the vane,
he descended, and claimed his reward. But the King was so exasperated at the sailor for needlessly
frightening the people by standing on his head at such a great height, that he would not allow
him to be paid.

A long time ago, in the town of Northam, England, the steeple of the church was found to be
unsteady. It swayed back and forth whenever the great bell struck, and continued to sway thus,
until, as it leaned over on one side, it opened large cracks on the opposite.

