"Oh, well, I's thankful for dis hour in which I's been brought very near to de days of de long
long ago. Maybe I'll get a pension and maybe I won't. Just so de Lord and de President take
notice of us, is enough for me." Yes sir, it wuz on Marse Johnson D. Coleman's plantation.
And he had a plantation! Dese niggers here in Carlisle--and niggers is all dey is too--dey
don't know what no plantation is. When I got big enough fer to step around, from de very fus,
my maw took me in de big house. It still dat, cep it done bout fell down now, to what it wuz
then. But some of Marse's folks, dey libs down dar still. Den you see, dey is like dese white
folks up 'round here now. Dey ain't got no big money like dey had when I wuz a runnin' up.
Time I got big enough fer to run aroun' in my shirt tail, my maw, she lowed one night to my
paw, when he wuz settin by de fire, dat black little nigger over dar, he got to git hissef
some pants kaise I'se gwine to put him up over de white fokes table. In dem times de doos and
winders, dey nebber had no screen wire up to dem like dey is now. Fokes didn't know nothin
bout no such as dat den. My Marster and all de other big white fokes, dey raised pea fowls.
Is yu ebber seed any? Well, ev'y spring us little niggers, we coch dem wild things at night.
Dey could fly like a buzzard. Dey roosted up in de pine trees, right up in de tip top. So de
Missus, she hab us young uns clam up dar and git 'em when dey first took roost. Us would clam
down and my maw, she would pull de long feathers out'n de tails. Fer weeks de cocks, dey wouldn't
let nobody see 'em if dey could help it. Dem birds is sho proud. When dey is got de feathers,
dey jus struts on de fences, and de fences wuz rail in dem days. If'n dey could see dereself
in a puddle o' water after a rain, dey would stay dar all day a struttin' and carring on like
nobody's business. Yes sir, dem wuz purty birds. After us got de feathers, de Missus, she'ud
low dat all de nigger gals gwine to come down in de wash house and make fly brushes. Sometime
de Missus 'ud gib some of de gals some short feathers to put in dere Sunday hats. When dem
gals got dem hats on, I used to git so disgusted wid 'em I'd leave 'em at church and walk home
by my sef. Anyway, by dat time all de new fly brushes wuz made and de Missus, she hab fans
make from de short feathers for de white fokes to fan de air wid on hot days. Lawdy, I'se strayed
fur from what I had started out fer to tell you. But I knowed dat you young fokes didn't know
nothin' bout all dat. In dem days de dining room wuz big and had de windows open all de summer
long, and all de doos stayed streched too. Quick as de mess of victuals began to come on de
table, a little nigger boy was put up in de swing, I calls it, over de table to fan de flies
and gnats off'en de Missus' victuals. Dis swing wuz just off'n de end of de long table. Some
of de white fokes had steps a leadin' up to it. Some of 'em jus had de little boys maws to
fech de young'uns up dar till dey got fru; den dey wuz fetched down again.

"Well, when I got my pants, my maw fetched me in and I clumb up de steps dat Marse Johnson
had, to git up in his swing wid. At fus, dey had to show me jus how to hole de brush, kaise
dem peacock feathers wuz so long, iffen you didn't mind your bizness, de ends of dem feathers
would splash in de gravy er sumpin nother, and den de Missus table be all spattered up. Some
o' de Marsters would whorp de nigger chilluns fer dat carelessness, but Marse Johnson, he always
good to his niggers. Mos de white fokes good to de niggers round bout whar I comes from.

"It twad'nt long for I got used to it and I nebber did splash de feathers in no rations. But
iffen I got used to it, I took to agoin to sleep up thar. Marse Johnson, he would jus git up
and wake me up. All de white fokes at de table joke me so bout bein' so lazy, I soon stop dat
foolishness. My maw, she roll her eyes at me when I come down atter de marster had to wake
me up. Dat change like ever thing else. When I got bigger, I got to be house boy. Dey took
down de swing and got a little gal to stand jus 'hind de Missus' chair and fan dem flies. De
Missus low to Marse Johnson dat de style done change when he want to know how come she took
de swing down. So dat is de way it is now wid de wimmen, dey changes de whole house wid de
style; but I tells my chilluns, ain't no days like de ole days when I wuz a shaver.

"Atter de war, I come up to Shelton and got to de 'P' Hamilton place. I wuz grown den. I seed
a young girl dar what dey called 'Evvie'. Her paw, he had b'longed to de Chicks, so dats who
she wuz, Evvie Chick. Dar she sets in dat room by de fire. Now us got 'leven chilluns. Dey
is scattered all about. Dey is good to us in our ole age. Us riz 'em to obey de Lawd and mine
us. Dats all dey knows, and iffen fokes would do dat now, dey wouldn't have no sassy chilluns
like I sees here in Carlisle.

