THE STORY OF THE HERSCHELS

A FAMILY OF ASTRONOMERS.

SIR WILLIAM HERSCHEL SIR JOHN HERSCHEL CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

               "Stars
    Numberless, as thou seest, and how they move;
    Each has his place appointed, each his course."

    MILTON.

1886

PREFATORY NOTE

From the best available sources have been gathered the following biographical particulars of
a remarkable family of astronomers--the Herschels.

They will serve to show the young reader how great a pleasure may be found in the acquisition
of knowledge, and how solid a happiness in quietly pursuing the path of duty.

On the value of biography it is unnecessary to insist. It is now well understood that we may
learn to make our own lives good and honest and true, by carefully and diligently following
the example of the good and honest and true who have gone before us. And certain it is that
the lessons taught by the lives of the Herschels are such as young readers will do well to
lay to heart.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I.

   The study of astronomy a source of intellectual pleasure--By
   contemplating the heavens, the mind is led to wonder and adore--A
   proof of the existence of a Creator is afforded by creation--"We
   praise thee, O Lord!"--The beauty of Nature--Intellectual
   curiosity--"Order is Heaven's first law"--Value of astronomical
   study

CHAPTER II.

   Herschel's parents--The two brothers--A musical family--An
   inventive genius--The brothers in England--Herschel as an
   organist--A laborious life--Mechanical ingenuity of William
   Herschel--Telescope-making--A Sunday misadventure--Constructing a
   twenty-foot telescope--A domestic picture--Discovery of a new
   planet--Herschel's combined musical and astronomical pursuits--A
   thirty-foot telescope--Casting the mirror--An explosion

CHAPTER III.

   The house at Datchet--Housekeeping details--A devoted sister--Life
   at Datchet--Herschel's astronomical observations--Testing and
   trying "eyepieces"--The colossal telescope--Miss Herschel's
   accident--Removed to Slough--Constructing a forty-foot
   telescope--Brother and sister--Heroic self-denial--Occupations at
   Slough--Royal liberality--An astronomer's triumphs--About the
   nebulae--Investigation of the sun's constitution--The solar spots,
   and their influence--Physical constitution of the moon--Lunar
   volcanoes--Arago's explanation--Herschel's study of the
   planets--Satellites of Saturn--Discovery of Uranus--And of its six
   satellites--Study of Pigott's comet and the comet of
   1811--Description of the latter--An uneventful life--Herschel's
   marriage--His honours--Extracts from his sister's diary--Decaying
   strength--Herschel removes to Bath--Last days of an
   astronomer--Illustration of the ruling passion--Death of Sir
   William Herschel--His achievements

CHAPTER IV.

   Birth and education of Sir John Herschel--Honours at
   Cambridge--First publication--Continues his scientific studies--His
   numerous literary contributions--His devotion to his father's
   reputation--The forty-foot telescope--Herschel's observations on
   the double and triple stars--On the refraction and polarization of
   light--Catalogue of nebulae and star-clusters--Voyage to Cape
   Town--Letter to Miss Herschel--Study of the southern
   heavens--Return to England--Distinctions conferred upon him--His
   "Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects"--His description of
   volcanoes and earthquakes--Continual changes in the configuration
   of the earth--Violent earthquakes--Phenomena of volcanic
   eruptions--In Mexico--In the island of Sumbawa--Herschel's theory
   of volcanic forces--His character

CHAPTER V.

   Caroline Herschel's devotion to her brother William--Her grief and
   solitariness at his death--Reflections on the mutability of human
   things--Aunt and nephew--A parsimonious government--Miss Herschel's
   gold medal--South on Sir William's discoveries--On Miss Herschel's
   devotion--Her own astronomical discoveries--Her life at
   Hanover--Her wonderful memory--Anecdotes of Sir John
   Herschel--Correspondence between aunt and nephew--The path of
   duty--Sir John's visit to Miss Herschel--Reminiscences of early
   years--A nonogenarian--A Christmas in Hanover--Last days of
   Caroline Herschel--Her death--Her epitaph

THE STORY OF THE HERSCHELS.

CHAPTER I.

Of all the sciences, none would seem to yield a purer intellectual gratification than that
of Astronomy. Man cannot but feel a sense of pleasure, and even of power, when, through the
instruments constructed by his ingenuity, he finds himself brought within reach, as it were,
of the innumerable orbs that roll through the domains of space. He cannot but feel a sense
of pleasure, and even of power, when the telescope reveals to his gaze not only the worlds
that constitute his own so-called Solar System, but the suns that light up the borders of the
Universe, system upon system, sun upon sun, covering the unbounded area almost as thickly as
the daisies cover a meadow in spring. He cannot but feel a sense of pleasure, and even, of
power, when he tracks the course of the flashing comet, examines into the physical characteristics
of the Sun and Moon, and records the various phases of the distant planets. But if such be
his feeling, it is certainly tempered with awe and wonder as he contemplates the phenomena
of the heavens,--the beauty of the stars, the immensity of their orbits, the regularity with
which each bright world performs its appointed course, the simplicity of the laws which govern
its motions, and the mystery which attends its far-off existence. It has been, said that "an
undevout astronomer is mad;" and if Astronomy, of all the sciences, be the one most calculated
to gratify the intellect, surely it is the one which should most vividly awaken the religious
sentiment. Is it possible to look upon all those worlds within worlds, all those endless groups
of mighty suns, all those strange and marvellous combinations of coloured stars, all those
remote nebulous clusters,--to look upon them in their perfect order and government,--to consider
their infinite number and astonishing dimensions,--without acknowledging the fulness of the
power of an everlasting God, who created them, set them in their appointed places, and still
controls them? Is it possible to be an astronomer and an atheist? Is it possible not to see
in their relations to one another and to our own little planet an Almighty Wisdom as well as
an Almighty Love? Could any "fortuitous concourse of atoms" have strewed the depths of space
with those mighty and beautiful orbs, and defined for each the exact limits of its movements?
Alas! to human folly and human vanity everything is possible; and men may watch the stars in
their courses, and delight in the beauty of Sun and Moon, and perceive all the wonders of the
sunrise and all the glories of the sunset, without any recognition in their hearts of Him who
made them--of Him in whom we and they alike live and move and have our being! Yet it is not
the less true that only the devout and thankful heart can adequately and thoroughly sympathize
with the love and wisdom and power which are written in such legible characters on the face
of heaven. Astronomy gives up all its treasures only to him who enters upon its study in a
reverent spirit. It affords the purest intellectual gratification only when its pursuits are
undertaken with a humble acknowledgment of the littleness of man and the greatness of God.
Half the wonder, half the mystery of creation is lost, when we fail to recognize the truth
that it is governed by eternal laws springing from an Almighty Intelligence. Take the Creator
out of creation, and it becomes a hopeless puzzle--a dreary problem, incapable of solution.

And it is to be observed that the soul cannot be satisfied without this religious view of Nature.
The heavens and the earth are as nothing to man, if they do not excite his awe and call forth
his thanksgiving. We might almost suppose that it is for this purpose that the sea rolls its
waves on the shore, and the violet smiles by the wayside, and the moon floods the night with
its silver radiance. As a recent writer has observed,[1] the beauty of Nature is necessary
for the perfection of praise; without it the praise of the Creator would be essentially weakened;
our hearts must be roused and excited by what we see. "It may seem extraordinary," adds our
authority, "but it is the case, that, though we certainly look at contrivance or machinery
in Nature with a high admiration, still, with all its countless and multitudinous uses, which
we acknowledge with gratitude, there is nothing in it which raises the mind's interest in nearly
the same degree that beauty does. It is an awakening sight; and one way in which it acts is
by exciting a certain curiosity about the Deity. In what does God possess character, feelings,
relations to us?--all unanswerable questions, but the very entertainment of which is an excitement
of the reason, and throws us upon the thought of what there is behind the veil. This curiosity
is a strong part of worship and of praise. To think that we know everything about God, is to
benumb and deaden worship; but mystical thought quickens worship, and the beauty of Nature
raises mystical thought. So long as a man is probing Nature, and in the thick of its causes
and operations, he is too busy about his own inquiries to receive this impress from her; but
place the picture before him, and he becomes conscious of a veil and curtain which has the
secrets of a moral existence behind it,--interest is inspired, curiosity is awakened, and worship
is raised. 'Surely thou art a God that hidest thyself.' But if God simply hid himself and nothing
more, if we knew nothing, we should not wish to know more. But the veil suggests that it is
a veil, and that there is something behind it which it conceals."

[Footnote 1: Professor Mozley, "University Sermons," pp. 145, 146.]

Now, this is the feeling which the study of Astronomy very certainly awakens. Every day the
astronomer discovers something which quickens his curiosity to discover more. Every day he
catches new glimpses of the Almighty Wisdom, which stimulate his desire for a further revelation.
And all he learns, and all he anticipates learning, combine to produce in him an emotion of
awe. What grandeur lies before him in that endless procession of worlds--in that array of suns
and stars extending beyond the limits of the most powerful telescopic vision! How marvellous
it is! How beautiful! Observe the combination of simplicity with power; note how a great principle
of "law" underlies the apparent intricacy of eccentric and intersecting orbits. And then the
field of inquiry is inexhaustible. The astronomer has no fear of feeling the satiety of an
Alexander, when he lamented that he had no more worlds to conquer. What Newton said of himself
is true of every astronomer,--he is but as a child on the sea-shore, picking up a shell here
and a shell there, but unable to grasp a full conception of the mighty ocean that thunders
in his ears!

And, therefore, because Astronomy cherishes the feelings of awe and reverence and praise, because
it inspires a continual yearning after additional knowledge, because it reveals to us something
of the character of God, we conceive that of all the sciences it affords the purest intellectual
gratification. Certainly it is one of the most absorbing. Its attraction seems to be irresistible.
Once an astronomer, always an astronomer; the stars, we may fancy, will not relax the spell
they lay upon their votary. He willingly withdraws himself from the din and gaiety of social
life, to shut himself up in his chamber, and, with the magic tube due to the genius of a Galileo,
survey with ever-new delight the celestial wonders. So was it with Tycho Brahé, and Copernicus,
and Kepler; so was it, as the following pages will show, with that remarkable family of astronomers--astronomers
for three generations--the HERSCHELS.

CHAPTER II.

In the quiet city of Hanover, nearly a century and a half ago, lived a professor of music,
by name Isaac Herschel, a Protestant in religion, though presumably of Jewish descent. He had
been left an orphan at the early age of eleven, and his friends wished him to adopt the vocation
of a landscape-gardener; but being passionately fond of music, and having acquired some skill
on the violin, he left Dresden, his birthplace, in order to seek his fortune; wandering from
place to place, until at Hanover, in 1731, he obtained an engagement in the band of the Guards.
Soon afterwards he married; and by his wife, Anna Ilse Moritzen, had ten children, four of
whom died in infancy. Of the others, two--a brother and a sister--lived to distinguish themselves
by their intellectual power; and all true lovers of science will regard with reverence the
memories of William and Caroline Herschel.

Frederick William Herschel was born on the 15th of November 1738. Like his father, he displayed
an innate musical ability, which was sedulously cultivated and constantly developed; while
his general mental training was left to the care of the master of the garrison-school. Those
who are gifted with a love and a capacity for music sometimes show to little advantage in other
pursuits; but such was not the case with William Herschel, who progressed so rapidly in all
his studies that the pupil soon outstripped the teacher. Although, we are told, four years
younger than his brother Jacob, the two began French together, and William mastered the language
in half the time occupied by his senior. His leisure time out of school, when not given up
to practice on the oboe and the violin, was devoted to the acquisition, of Latin and arithmetic.

His father in 1743 was present at the battle of Dettingen; and the exposure consequent on a
night spent on the rain-soaked battle-field afflicted him with an asthmatic complaint and a
partial paralysis of the limbs, which darkened for years the musician's peaceful household.
He himself, however, was greatly cheered by the musical proficiency of his two sons, and the
intellectual refinement of Frederick William. She adds that she often kept herself awake in
order to listen to their animating remarks, feeling inexpressibly happy in their happiness,--an
indication of that devoted and unselfish affection which afterwards consecrated her whole life.
But, generally, their conversation branched out into philosophical subjects; and father and
son argued with so much fervour, that the fond mother's interference became necessary,--the
immortal names of Leibnitz, Newton, and Euler ringing with a clarion-like peal that boded ill
for the repose of the younger members of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1755, the tranquil family circle was broken up--the Hanoverian regiment in whose band William
and Jacob were engaged having been ordered to England. The parting was very sorrowful; for
the invalid father had derived much support as well as enjoyment from the company of his sons.
At first, the English experiences of the young Germans were somewhat severe. They endured all
the pangs of poverty; pangs endured with heroic composure, while William relaxed not a whit
in his devotion to the pursuit of knowledge. Happily, however, his musical proficiency attracted
the attention of Lord Durham, who offered him the appointment of bandmaster to a militia regiment
stationed in the north of England. In this position he gradually formed a connection among
the wealthier families of Leeds, Pontefract, and Doncaster, where he taught music, and conducted
the public concerts and oratorios with equal zeal and success. In 1764 he paid a brief but
happy visit to his family, much to the joy of his faithful sister, Caroline. Returning to England,
for which country he cherished a strong affection, he resumed his career of patient industry,
and in 1765 was appointed organist at Halifax. He was now in receipt of an income which secured
him due domestic comforts, and enabled him to remedy the defects of his early education. With
the help of a grammar and a dictionary he mastered Italian. He also studied mathematics and
the scientific theory of music, losing no opportunity of adding to his stores of knowledge.

In 1766 he obtained the lucrative post of organist to the Octagon Chapel at Bath. Increased
emoluments, however, brought with them increased obligations. When his sister Caroline joined
him, in 1772, she found him immersed in his various labours. For the choir of the Octagon Chapel
he composed anthems, chants, and complete morning and evening services. A part of every day
was occupied in giving lessons to his numerous pupils. In truth, he was one of the busiest
men in England; yet in all his arrangements he was so methodical that he found time for everything--and
time, more particularly, for the studies in which his soul delighted. His life furnishes an
admirable example of what may be accomplished by a man with a firm will and a strong purpose,
who sets before himself an end to be attained, and controls all his efforts towards its attainment.
He toiled so hard as a musician, because he wanted to be something more. Every spare moment
of the day, and frequently many hours of the night, he gave up to the pursuits which were gradually
leading him into the path best fitted for his genius. The study of mathematics proved but a
preliminary to the study of optics; and an accident made him once for all an astronomer.

A common two-foot telescope falling into his hands, revealed to him the wonders of the heavens.
His imagination was inspired by their contemplation; with ever-increasing enthusiasm he gazed
on the revolving planets, on the flashing stars; he determined to fathom more profoundly the
constellated depths. A larger instrument was necessary, and Herschel wrote to London for it;
but the price demanded proved far beyond the resources of the sanguine organist. What should
he do? He was not the man to be beaten back by a difficulty: as he could not buy a telescope,
he resolved to make one; an instrument eighteen or twenty feet long, which would reveal to
him the phases of the remotest planets. In his eager pursuit he enlisted the services of his
loving and intelligent sister.

The work went on famously, as might be expected from so much ardour, perseverance, and ingenuity.
Of a Quaker resident at Bath, the musician-astronomer purchased a quantity of patterns, tools,
hones, polishers, and unfinished mirrors. Every room in the house was converted into a workshop.
In a handsomely-furnished drawing-room might be seen a cabinetmaker constructing a tube and
stands of all descriptions; while Herschel's brother Alex was engaged in a bedroom in putting
up a gigantic turning-machine. Meantime, the claims of music could not be ignored: there were
frequent rehearsals for the public concerts; lessons to pupils; the composition of glees and
catches, and the like; the superintendence of the practice of the chapel choir; and the study
of sonatas and concertos for public performance. But all the leisure that could be made or
stolen was occupied in labours which proved their own reward. Straight from the concert-platform
rushed the musician to his workshop, and many a lace ruffle was torn by nails or bespattered
by molten pitch; to say nothing of the positive danger to which Herschel continually exposed
himself by the precipitancy of his movements. For example: one Saturday evening, when the two
brothers returned from a concert between eleven and twelve o'clock, William amused himself
all the way home with the idea of being at liberty to spend the next day, except the few hours'
duty at chapel, at the turning-bench; but recollecting that the tools wanted sharpening, they
ran with them and a lantern to their landlord's grindstone in a public yard, where, very naturally,
they did not wish to be seen on a Sunday morning. But William was soon brought back by his
brother, almost swooning with the loss of one of his finger-nails.

This incident took place in the winter of 1775, at a house situated near Walcot turnpike, to
which Herschel had removed in the summer of the previous year. Here, on a grass plot behind
the house, he made active preparations for the erection of a twenty-foot telescope. So assiduous
was his devotion to this work, that while he was engaged in polishing the mirror, his sister
was constantly obliged to feed him by putting his victuals into his mouth. Otherwise he would
have reduced himself to a condition of positive emaciation! Once, when finishing a seven-foot
mirror, he did not take his hands from it for sixteen consecutive hours; for in these days
machinery had not been devised as a substitute for manual toil. He was seldom unemployed at
meals; but at such times employed himself in contriving or making drawings of whatever occurred
to his fertile fancy. Usually his sister Caroline read to him while he was engaged at the turning-lathe,
or polishing mirrors; choosing such books as "Don Quixote," the "Arabian Nights," the novels
of Sterne and Fielding; and tea and supper were served without any interruption to the task
in which Herschel was absorbed.

The astronomer-musician's patient survey of the heavens was rewarded, on the 13th of March
1781, by the discovery of a new planet, situated on the borders of our Solar System. In every
way this was a discovery of signal importance. It broke up the traditional conservatism of
astronomers, which had almost refused to regard as possible the existence of any planets beyond
the orbit of Saturn, because for so many years none had revealed themselves to the watchful
gaze. Men's minds were widened, so to speak, at a bound; their conceptions strengthened and
enlarged; for the discovery of Georgium Sidus--as the new planet was designated by its discoverer,
in honour of George III.--rendered possible and probable the discovery of other planets, and
thus extended immeasurably the limits of the Solar System. Herschel, whose reputation as a
musician had hitherto been local, now sprang into world-wide fame as an astronomer. George
III., who was a true lover of science, and not disinclined to bestow his patronage on men and
things of Hanoverian origin, summoned him to his presence; and was so much pleased with his
modest and interesting account of the long labours which had led to the great result, that,
after a brief interval, he bestowed upon him an annual pension of three hundred guineas, and
a residence, first at Clay Hall, and then at Slough.

But before this well-deserved good fortune fell to him, Herschel continued his industrious
career as both musician and astronomer. During the concert season, which lasted five or six
months, he had never a night disengaged, but was conducting oratorios at Bath or Bristol, arranging
for public concerts, attending rehearsals, and superintending the performances of his choir.
As soon as a lull came, the indomitable man, assisted by his faithful sister, returned to his
astronomical pursuits. To gain a fuller and clearer knowledge of the starry worlds scattered
over the vast fields of space, Herschel from the first had seen that instruments of much greater
power were necessary than any hitherto used by astronomers. He set to work, therefore, on the
construction of a thirty-foot telescope; the metallic mirror of which must, of course, be of
proportionate dimensions. This huge mirror was to be cast in a mould of loam prepared from
horse-dung, of which an immense quantity was to be pounded in a mortar, and sifted through
a fine sieve; an arduous and almost endless task, undertaken by Caroline Herschel and her brother
Alex. Then a furnace was erected in a back-room on the ground-floor; and every preparation
having been made, a day was set apart for the casting. The day came, and Herschel and his collaborateurs
looked forward to the consummation of their hopes. The metal was placed in the furnace; but,
unfortunately, just when it was ready for pouring in a molten stream into the mould, it began
to leak, and both the Herschels, and the caster with his men, were compelled to fly from the
apartment, the stone flooring exploding, and flying about in all directions, as high as the
ceiling. The astronomer, exhausted with heat and exertion, fell on a heap of brickbats; exhausted,
but not dismayed. The work was renewed; and a second casting being attempted, it proved entirely
successful, and a very perfect metal was formed in the mould.

CHAPTER III.

In August 1782 the Herschels removed to Datchet. Their new home was "a large neglected place;
the house in a deplorably ruinous condition, the garden and grounds overgrown with weeds."
Nor were the domestic arrangements more favourable. For a fortnight the little family were
without a female servant; and an old woman, the gardener's wife, showed Miss Herschel the shops,
where the high prices of every article, from coals to butcher's meat, appalled her. But of
these inconveniences Herschel took no account. Enough for him that he was released from the
drudgery of teaching, and free thenceforth to devote himself to the heavens and their wonders.
A man whose thoughts are always with the stars can hardly be expected to trouble himself about
the price of tallow-candles! Were there not capacious stables in which mirrors of any size
could be ground; and a roomy laundry capable of easy conversion into a library, with one door
opening on a large lawn, where the "small twenty-foot" was to take its stand? Compared with
advantages such as these, what mattered the scarcity of "butcher's meat"? Herschel laughingly
assured his sister that they could live on eggs and bacon; which, he confidently asserted,
would cost next to nothing, now that they were really in the country!

And so he settled down to a life of quiet, industry at Datchet; his admirable sister being
formally adopted as his assistant and secretary. Never had master a more devoted, a more enthusiastic,
or a more intelligent servant! She shared in all his night-watches, with her eye constantly
on the clock, and the pencil in her hand; with unerring accuracy she made all the complex calculations
so frequently required; she made three or four copies of every observation in separate registers,
co-ordinating, classifying, and analyzing them. If the scientific world, says Arago, saw with
astonishment the unexampled rapidity with which Herschel's works succeeded one another for
many years, they were greatly indebted for this affluence of production to the affectionate
ardour of his sister Caroline. Her enthusiasm never failed; her industry knew no check; and
her brother's fame was dearer to her than life.

The conscientious care and assiduous industry with which Herschel made his measurements of
the diameter of the Georgium Sidus (now called Uranus), and his interesting observations of
other planets, of double stars with their coloured light, of cometary and nebulous appearances,
were truly remarkable; as may be seen by the various papers which he wrote at this time for
the Royal Society.

       *       *       *       *       *

In July 1783 Herschel began his observations with his large twenty-foot telescope, though it
was in an unfinished state; and his sister watched and waited with much apprehension when she
knew him to be elevated some fifteen feet or more on a temporary crossbeam instead of a safe
gallery. Here it is needful to explain, perhaps, that these huge astronomical telescopes are
not used like ordinary glasses, to one end of which the observer applies his eye; the objects
towards which the tube is directed being thrown upon a large mirror, which is attached to it
externally at some distance from the ground. The observer, therefore, needs to be mounted on
an elevated platform or gallery, from which he can conveniently inspect the mirror. One night,
in a very high wind, Herschel had scarcely descended from his station before the whole apparatus
came down; and his sister was in continual apprehension of some serious accident. One such,
indeed, occurred, and to herself. The evening of the 31st of December had been cloudy, but
as a few stars shone forth about ten o'clock, hurried preparations were made for observing.
Herschel, standing at the front of the telescope, directed his sister to make a certain alteration
in the lateral motion, which was done by machinery, on which the point of support of the tube
and mirror rested. At each end of the machine or trough was an iron hook, such as butchers
use for suspending their joints of meat; and having to run in the dark across ground covered
a foot deep with melting snow, Miss Herschel fell on one of these hooks, which entered her
right leg above the knee. To her brother's injunction, "Make haste!" she could answer only
by a pitiful cry, "I am hooked!" He and the workmen hastened immediately to her assistance,
but they could not disentangle her without leaving nearly two ounces of her flesh behind. For
some weeks she was an invalid, and at one time it was feared that amputation might be necessary.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not satisfied with the magnifying power of any of the instruments he had hitherto constructed,
Herschel resolved, in 1784, to attempt a forty-foot telescope. Such a work, however, was far
beyond his limited private resources; and he did not venture to undertake it until promised
a royal bounty of £2000. Then he removed from Datchet to Clay Hall, Old Windsor; and again,
in 1786, to Slough, where he finally settled, and succeeded in erecting a commodious and well-equipped
observatory.

At Slough, as at Datchet, prevailed the most enthusiastic industry; and the house was soon
as full of well-ordered labour as a bee-hive. Smiths were kept constantly at work on different
parts of the new telescopic leviathan; and a whole troop of labourers was engaged in grinding
the tools required for shaping and polishing its mirror. Had not a cloudy or moonlight night
sometimes intervened, Herschel and his sister must have died of sheer exhaustion, for they
toiled with unremitting ardour both day and night. With the morning came the workpeople, of
whom no fewer than between thirty and forty were at work for upwards of three months together:
some employed in felling and rooting out trees, some digging and preparing the ground for the
bricklayers, who were laying the foundation for the telescope. Then there were the carpenter
and his men; and, meanwhile, the smith was converting a wash-house into a forge, and manufacturing
complete sets of tools for his own share of the labour. In short, the place was at one time
a complete workshop for the manufacture of optical instruments; and it was a pleasure to enter
it for the purpose of observing the fervour of the great astronomer, and the reverent attention
given to his orders.

It is impossible not to refer here to the sisterly devotion of Caroline Herschel, who was in
every respect worthy of her noble-minded, tender-hearted, and enthusiastic brother.

She stood beside him to the last, sharing his labours, brightening his life. In the days, says
her biographer, when Herschel gave up a lucrative career that he might dedicate all his energies
to astronomical pursuits, it was through her care and thriftiness that he was spared from the
unrest of pecuniary anxieties. As she had been his helper and assistant during his career as
a popular musician, so she became his helper and assistant when he gave himself up, like the
Chaldeans of old, to the study of the stars. By dint of a resolute will and a love that shrank
from no sacrifice or exertion, she acquired such a knowledge of mathematics and calculations,
mysterious as these generally seem to the feminine mind, that she was able to formulate with
exactness the result of her brother's researches. She never failed to be his willing fellow-labourer
in the workshop; she helped him to grind and polish his mirrors; she stood beside his telescope,
in order to record his observations, during the dark and bitter mid-winter nights, when the
very ink was frozen in the bottle. It may be said, without exaggeration, that she kept him
alive by her care: thinking nothing of herself, she lived for him, and him alone. She loved
him, she believed in him, she aided him with all her heart and all her strength. Her mental
powers were very considerable; and undoubtedly she might have attained to eminence on her own
account, for she herself discovered no fewer than eight comets. But she shunned self-glorification;
she desired to live in her brother's shadow; she worked for him, never for herself; and in
her elevated character no feature more strongly demands our admiration than her heroic though
unconscious self-denial. Happy the man who has such a sister; happy the sister whose brother
is worthy of so much devotion! It is pleasant to know that William Herschel deserved the love
so lavishly poured out at his feet; that great as were his achievements in science, lofty and
broad as was his genius, they were fully sustained and ennobled by the beauty and worth of
his inner life. Who can contemplate their twofold career in all its singleness of purpose,
its purity, its unselfishness, its sublime disregard of worldly pleasures, without emotion?
The lessons told by such a life are worth all the moral treatises ever written.

To Miss Herschel's diary we again refer, for a glimpse of the occupations of her brother and
herself at Slough in the first two years of their residence. These two years, to use an apt
expression of her own, were spent in a perfect chaos of business. The garden and workrooms
swarmed with labourers and workmen--smiths and carpenters speeding to and fro between the forge
and the forty-foot machinery; and so incessant was the vigilance of Herschel, that not a screw-bolt
in the whole apparatus was fixed except under his eye. "I have seen him," writes his sister,
"lying stretched many an hour in the burning sun, across the top beam, whilst the iron-work
for the various motions [of the great telescope] was being fixed." At one time no fewer than
twenty-four men, in relays of twelve each, were engaged in grinding and polishing day and night;
and Herschel never left them, taking his food without allowing himself time to sit down to table.

     "In August 1787," writes the diarist, "an additional
     man-servant was engaged, who would be wanted at the handles of
     the motions of the forty-foot,"--that is, to raise or lower it,
     or move it from side to side, as might be required,--"for which
     the mirror in the beginning of July was so far finished as to
     be used for occasional observations on trial. Such a person was
     also necessary for showing the telescopes to the curious
     strangers, as by their numerous visits my brother and myself
     had for some time past been much incommoded. In consequence of
     an application made through Sir J. Banks to the king, my
     brother had in August a second sum of £2000 granted for
     completing the forty-foot, and £200 yearly for the expense of
     repairs; such as ropes, painting, &c., and the keep and
     clothing of the men who attended at night. A salary of £50 a
     year was also settled on me, as an assistant to my brother. A
     great uneasiness was by this means removed from my mind; for
     though I had generally (and especially during the last busy six
     years) been almost the keeper of my brother's purse, with a
     charge to provide for my personal wants, only annexing in my
     accounts the memorandum 'For Car.' to the sums so laid out.
     When cast up, they hardly amounted to seven or eight pounds per
     year since the time we had left Bath. Nothing but bankruptcy
     had all the while been running through my silly head, when
     looking at the sums of my weekly accounts, and knowing they
     could be but trifling in comparison with what had been and had
     yet to be paid in town. I will only add, that from this time
     the utmost activity prevailed to forward the completion of the
     forty-foot."

In recognition of his scientific triumphs, the honorary degree of LL.D was conferred upon Herschel,
in 1786, by the University of Oxford. They were triumphs that well merited such a recognition.
He had already made some important observations on the nature of double stars, on the dimensions
of the telescopic planets, and had begun his famous investigations into the composition of
the nebulae,--those clusters of stars and nebulous matter which had previously proved such
a problem to astronomers. The remarkable phenomenon of a periodical change of intensity in
certain stars, which wax and wane in radiance like a revolving light, had also excited his
attention.

The ordinary spectator, looking upon the face of the heavens through a telescope, had, prior
to Herschel's time, felt his curiosity excited by the appearance here and there of filmy patches,
vague in structure and irregular in shape, which, from their resemblance to clouds, received
the name of nebulae. What these were, no astronomer had succeeded in defining. It was left
for Herschel, with his rare powers of patient and discriminating observation, assisted by the
more powerful instruments which his ingenuity succeeded in constructing, to discern in them
innumerable groups of worlds, in various stages of formation! A new light was thrown upon the
history of the Universe. Man was able to assist, as it were, at the process of creation, and
to watch the development of a mass of incoherent matter into a perfect star. This alone was
a discovery which might well have immortalised the name of Herschel.

But we owe to him the elements of our knowledge of the Sun's physical constitution. He swept
aside the erroneous theories and conjectures which had previously prevailed, and guided the
astronomical inquirer into the right path. He convinced himself, by long and patient researches,
that the luminous envelope of the great "orb of day" was neither a liquid nor an elastic fluid;
that it was in certain respects analogous to the clouds which wreathe our mountain-summits
and fertilize our plains; that it floated in the solar atmosphere. Thence he came to the conclusion
that the Sun has two atmospheres, endowed with motions quite independent of each other. When
the ascending currents are powerful, they create those appearances which astronomers designate
the nuclei, the penumbrae, the faculae.

Such was Herschel's explanation of the mode of formation of the solar spots; and allowing it
to be well-founded, we must expect to find--what is, indeed, the case--that the Sun does not
always and regularly pour forth equal quantities of light and heat. It is true that Herschel's
hypothesis has been modified by later astronomers; but his is the credit of having directed
them into the right course of inquiry and observation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The physical constitution of the Moon was a subject which also engaged the attention of our
indefatigable enthusiast. As early as 1780 he attempted the measurement of the lunar mountains,
and came to the conclusion that few of them exceeded 2600 feet in height. Later research, however,
has proved these figures to be inadequate. Next he addressed himself to a study of the lunar
volcanoes, three of which he declared to be in a state of ignition; two of them apparently
on the decline, the third still active. He was so convinced of the reality of the phenomenon,
that on the 20th of April 1787 he wrote:--"The volcano burns with greater violence than it
did last night." The real diameter of the volcanic light he estimated at 16,400 feet. Its intensity
he described as superior to that of the nucleus of a comet then flashing across our system.
The objects situated near the crater were fully illuminated by the glare of its burning matter.

It may seem strange that, after observations so exact and minute, few astronomers now admit
the existence of active volcanoes in the Moon. The reasons for their incredulity are thus stated:--

The various parts of the Moon do not all reflect with the same intensity. Here, that intensity
may be dependent on the form; elsewhere, on the nature of the materials. Those persons who
have examined the lunar orb with telescopes, know how very considerable the difference arising
from these two causes may be,--with how much keener and stronger a radiance one point of the
Moon will sometimes shine than those around it. Well, it would seem to be obvious that the
ratio of intensity between the brilliant parts and the faint parts must always be the same,
whatever the origin of the illuminating light. In that portion of the lunar sphere which receives
the glow and glory of the sun, we know that some points exist, the brightness of which is extraordinary
compared with the feeble flickering gleam of those around them. And these same points, when
seen in the dim reflection of the Earth, will still predominate in intensity over the neighbouring
regions. In this way Arago and others explain the observations of Herschel, without admitting
the existence of active volcanoes in the Moon. That volcanoes there are, is a familiar fact;
but they would seem to have exhausted their activity in long-past ages. The lunar surface is
now a dreary waste of rugged lava and ashes, covered with the matter ejected from craters once
in a state of furious eruption. The Moon, in fact, is a world which has burned itself out.
How strange the thought that in a far-back period the inhabitants of Earth, had Earth then
been inhabited, might have seen the glare of countless volcanoes diffused, lurid and threatening,
over the face of their satellite! How strange the thought that the once active fires should
all have died away, and the Moon have thus been prepared for the better reception and reflection
of the solar radiance in order to illuminate the nights of Earth!

The planets, needless to say, were the objects of Herschel's assiduous attention. Mercury was
the one which least interested him; but he ascertained the perfect circularity of its disc.
With respect to Venus, he endeavoured to determine the time of its rotation from 1777. We owe
to him the discovery of the true shape of the "red planet Mars,"--that, like the Earth, it
is an oblate spheroid, or flattened at the poles. After Piazzi, Olbers, and Harding had discovered
the small planets, Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta, he applied himself to the measurement of
their angular diameters. His researches led him to the conclusion that these four new bodies
could not properly be ranked with the planets, and he proposed to call them Asteroids--a name
now generally adopted. Since Herschel's time, the number of these minor planets known to astronomers
has increased to upwards of one hundred.

We come next in order to Saturn, the gloomy planet which the ancient astrologers regarded with
so much dislike. Here, too, we find traces of Herschel's labours. Not only has he enlarged
our knowledge of its equatorial compression, of its physical constitution, and of the rotation
of its luminous belt or ring, but he added two to the number of its satellites. Five only of
these were known at the close of the seventeenth century; of which Cussiric discovered four,
and Huygens one. It was universally believed that the subject was exhausted.

But, on the 28th of August 1780, Herschel's colossal tube revealed to his delighted gaze a
satellite nearer to the Saturnian ring than those previously observed. And a few days later,
on the 17th of September, a seventh and last satellite crossed his field of vision. It was
situated between the former and the ring; that is, it is the nearest to it of the seven.

But the most remarkable of Herschel's achievements was the discovery of the planet Uranus,
and the detection of its satellites.

On the 13th of March 1781, between ten and eleven o'clock at night, the great astronomer was
engaged in examining the small stars near H in the constellation Gemini, with a seven-foot
telescope, bearing a magnifying power of two hundred and twenty-seven times. It appeared to
him that one of these stars was of an unusual diameter; and he came to the conclusion, therefore,
that it was a comet. It was under this denomination that it was discussed at the meeting of
the Royal Society. But the researches of Herschel at a later period showed that the orbit of
the new body was circular, and accordingly it was elevated to the rank of a planet. As already
stated, Herschel named it, in compliment to George III., the Georgium Sidus; in this copying
the example of Galileo with his "Medicaean stars." Afterwards, astronomers christened it Herschel,
and subsequently Uranus, in conformity with the mythological nomenclature of the other planets.

The immense distance of Uranus from our Earth, its small angular diameter, and the feebleness
of its light, seemed to preclude the hope that, if it were attended by satellites of the same
dimensions in proportion to its own magnitude as those of the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn
in proportion to their magnitude, they could be descried by any human observer. The patient,
persevering, reverent temper of Herschel took no account, however, of any discouraging or unpropitious
circumstances. What he did was to substitute for telescopes of the ordinary construction the
new and gigantic forty-foot tube already described; and, thus, with unremitting vigilance and
intense zeal, he arrived at the discovery (between January 4, 1787, and February 28, 1794)
of the six satellites of Uranus; in other words, he revealed to man the completeness of a new
system,--a system which will always be identified with his name.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those singular meteors, the comets, which flash through heaven with long trails of light, and
of old astonished the nations as if they were harbingers of some overwhelming calamity, were
also the frequent subjects of our astronomer's investigations. He brought some of his fine
and powerful instruments to bear on a comet discovered by Mr. Pigott in 1807, and closely and
carefully investigated its physical constitution.

The nucleus, or head, was circular and well determined, and evidently shone by its own light.
Very small stars seemed to grow pale, "to hide their diminished heads," when seen through its
coma or tail. It is true, however, that this faintness may have been only apparent, and due
to the circumstance of the stars being projected on a luminous background. Such was Herschel's
explanation. A gaseous medium, capable of absorbing sufficient solar radiance to efface the
light of some "lesser stars," appeared to him to possess in each stratum a sensible quantity
of matter. Hence it would cause a real diminution of the light transmitted, though nothing
would indicate the existence of such a cause.[1]

[Footnote 1: This conclusion is disputed by many astronomers.]

Herschel examined the beautiful comet of 1811 with equal accuracy.

We have reproduced these observations by a distinguished French astronomer, in order to show
the reader what was the nature, and how great was the importance, of Herschel's labours, and
in how remarkable and comprehensive a manner he conducted his survey of the celestial phenomena.
We now return to our brief narrative of his life.

Such a life, absorbed in tranquil and incessant studies, presents no curious, romantic, or
surprising incidents. It was the life of a reverent, patient, gentle, and devoted man of genius,
who dedicated himself to the task of making known the "wondrous works of God" to his fellow-men,
and who in all his social and domestic relations was without blot or stain.

In 1788 he married the widow of John Pitt, Esq., with whom he received a considerable fortune,
and thus for the remainder of his life he was enabled to give himself up to his favourite pursuits
unembarrassed by pecuniary anxieties. His marriage was in every respect a happy one, and effectually
secured his domestic peace. By his wife he had an only son,--the late Sir John Herschel,--who
worthily maintained the scientific dignity of his name.

It is said, by the highest of all authority, that a prophet is not honoured in his own country.
But our astronomer was not without the reward of his work, even in his lifetime. The University
of Oxford conferred upon him the illustrious honorary degree of D.C.L. In 1816 he received
the Guelphic order of knighthood; and in 1820 he was chosen the first president of the Astronomical
Society.

From his sister's diary we gather a few particulars illustrative of his mode of life.

On the 4th of October 1806 she writes:--

     "My brother came from Brighton.

     "February 6th, 1807.--When I came to Slough to assist my
     brother in polishing the forty-foot mirror, I found my
     nephew[1] very ill with an inflammatory sore throat and fever.

     "February 9th.--Still very ill; and my brother obliged to go
     on with the polishing of the great mirror, as every arrangement
     had been made for that purpose.--Mem. I believe my brother
     had reasons for choosing the cold season for this laborious
     work, the exertion of which alone must put any man into a
     fever, if he were ever so strong.

     "February 10th.--From this day my nephew's health kept on
     mending.

     "February 19th.--My nephew mending, but my brother not well.

     "February 26th.--My brother so ill that I was not allowed to
     see him, and till March 8th his life was despaired of; and by
     March 10th I was permitted to see him, but only for two or
     three minutes, as he was not allowed to speak.

     "March 22nd.--He (Sir William) went for the first time into
     his library, but could only remain for a few moments."

     [Footnote 1: Afterwards Sir John Herschel.]

From this dangerous attack Sir William recovered, but thenceforth it was clear to his friends
that his strength gradually decreased, though not his enthusiasm or his industry. He persevered
in his life-long labours with all his old intellectual force. What failed him was neither his
tender affections nor his mental powers; but his body refused to answer all the demands made
upon it by the resolute will,--the sword was slowly but surely wearing out the scabbard. Under
the date of April 2, 1819, we meet with an ominous entry in his loving and faithful sister's
diary:--

     "My brother left Slough, accompanied by Lady Herschel, for
     Bath, he being very unwell; and the constant complaint of
     giddiness in the head so much increased, that they were obliged
     to be four nights on the road both going and coming. The last
     moments before he stepped into the carriage were spent in
     walking with me through his library and workrooms, pointing
     with anxious looks to every shelf and drawer, desiring me to
     examine all, and to make memorandums of them as well as I
     could. He was hardly able to support himself; and his spirits
     were so low, that I found difficulty in commanding my voice so
     far as to give him the assurance he should find on his return
     that my time had not been misspent.

     "When I was left alone, I found that I had no easy task to
     perform, for there were packets of writings to be examined
     which had not been looked at for the last forty years. But I
     did not pass a single day without working in the library as
     long as I could read a letter without candlelight, and taking
     with me papers to copy, which employed me for best part of the
     night; and thus I was enabled to give my brother a clear
     account of what had been done at his return. But (May 1) he
     returned home much worse than he went, and for several days
     hardly noticed my handiwork."

Then follows:--

     "I keep this as a relic! Every line now traced by the hand of
     my dear brother becomes a treasure to me.

     "C. HERSCHEL."

We know of nothing more touching in literary history than this noble, self-sacrificing, generous
affection of the sister towards her eminent brother. Such instances of absolute self-denial
and all-absorbing love elevate our opinion of human nature generally, and prove that something
of the Divine image lingers in it still.

Herschel was now bordering upon the ripe old age of eighty, and it is no wonder that, after
a life of incessant study, his strength should daily diminish. In 1822 it became painfully
evident to his attached relatives and friends that the end was not far off; and on the 25th
of August he passed away to his rest. We owe an account of his last days to his sister, but
for whose pious care, indeed, very little of his private life would have been known, and Herschel
could have been judged only from the recorded results of his immense labours.

     "May 20th.--The summer proved very hot; my brother's feeble
     nerves were very much affected, and there being in general much
     company, added to the difficulty of choosing the most airy
     rooms for his retirement.

     "July 8th.--I had a dawn of hope that my brother might regain
     once more a little strength, for I have a memorandum in my
     almanac of his walking with a firmer step than usual above
     three or four times the distance from the dwelling-house to the
     library, in order to gather and eat raspberries, in his garden,
     with me. But I never saw the like again.

     "The latter end of July I was seized by a bilious fever, and I
     could for several days only rise for a few hours to go to my
     brother about the time he was used to see me. But one day I was
     entirely confined to my bed, which alarmed Lady Herschel and
     the family on my brother's account. Miss Baldwin [a niece of
     Lady Herschel] called and found me in despair about my own
     confused affairs, which I never had had time to bring into any
     order. The next day she brought my nephew to me, who promised
     to fulfil all my wishes which I should have expressed on paper;
     he begged me not to exert myself, for his father's sake, of
     whom he believed it would be the immediate death if anything
     should happen to me."

Afterwards she wrote:--

     "Of my dear nephew's advice I could not avail myself, for I
     knew that at that time he had weighty concerns on his mind.
     And, besides, my whole life almost has passed away in the
     delusion that, next to my eldest brother, none but Dietrich was
     capable of giving me advice where to leave my few relics,
     consisting of a few books and my sweeper [that is, the
     seven-foot telescope with which she was accustomed to sweep the
     heavens for comets]. And for the last twenty years I kept to
     the resolution of never opening my lips to my dear brother
     William about worldly concerns, let me be ever so much at a
     loss for knowing right from wrong."

Miss Herschel proceeds to note that on the afternoons of the 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th of
August, she, "as usual," spent some hours with her brother.

On the 15th she hastened to the accustomed place, where she generally found him, with the newspaper
which she was to read aloud for his amusement. But, instead, she found assembled there several
of his nearest friends, who informed her that her aged brother had been compelled to return
to his room. She lost no time in seeking him. He was attended by Lady Herschel and his housekeeper,
who were administering everything which was likely to keep up his failing strength.

Miss Herschel observed that he was much irritated, with the irritation natural to old age and
extreme bodily feebleness, at his inability to grant a friend's request for some token of remembrance
for his father. No sooner did he see Miss Herschel, the loving companion and fellow-worker
of so many years, than he characteristically employed her to fetch one of his last papers,
and a plate (or map) of the forty-foot telescope.

[Footnote 1: The Via Lactea, or "Milky Way," had long been supposed to consist of a nebulous,
vague, luminous matter, but Herschel showed that it was really made up of stars and systems
of stars.]

After struggling for some thirty minutes against his rapidly increasing weakness, the great
astronomer, bowed by his burden of years and labours, was forced to retire to his bed, with
little hope that he would ever rise from it again. For ten days and nights his wife and sister
watched by his side in painful suspense, until, on the 25th of August, the end came. Peacefully
closed a life which had passed in a peace and quietness not often vouchsafed to man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Herschel, says a brother astronomer, will never cease to occupy an eminent place in the small
group of our contemporary men of genius, while his name will descend to the most distant posterity.
The variety and the magnificence of his labours vie with their extent. The more they are studied,
the more they are admired. For it is with great men as it is with great movements in the Arts
and in national history,--we cannot understand them without observing them from different points
of view.

What a brilliant roll of achievements is recalled to the mind by the name of William Herschel!
The discovery of Uranus, and of its satellites; of the fifth and sixth satellites of Saturn;
of the many spots at the poles of Mars; of the rotation of Saturn's ring; of the belts of Saturn;
of the rotation of Jupiter's satellites; of the daily period of Saturn and Venus; and of the
motions of binary sidereal systems,--added to his investigations into nebulae, the Milky Way,
and double, triple, and multiple stars;--all this we owe to his patient, his persevering, his
daring genius! He may almost be styled the Father of Modern Astronomy.

CHAPTER IV.

We now propose to furnish a brief sketch of the life of Sir John Frederick William Herschel,
the only son of Sir William, and not less illustrious as a man of science.

He was born at Slough, in the year 1792. Evincing considerable talents at a very early age,
he received a careful private education under Mr. Rogers, a Scottish mathematician of distinguished
merit; and afterwards was sent to St. John's College, Cambridge, always famous as a nursery
of mathematical and scientific prodigies! Here he pursued his studies with remarkable success,
suffering no obstacles to daunt him, and wasting no opportunities of improvement. His fellow-collegians
regarded him as one who would add to the high repute of the college, and rejoiced at the brilliant
ease with which he passed every examination. In 1813 he took his degree of B.A., and consummated
a long series of successes by becoming "senior wrangler," and "Smith's prizeman;" these being
the two highest distinctions to which a Cambridge scholar can attain.

In the same year, when he was hardly twenty-one, he published a work entitled, "A Collection
of Examples of the Application of the Calculus to Finite Differences." To our young readers
such a title will convey no meaning; and we refer to it here only to illustrate the industry
and careful thought of the young student, which had rendered possible such a result.

Returning to Slough, he continued his studies in mathematics, chemistry, and natural philosophy,
and in various publications exhibited that faculty of observation and analyzation, that intelligence
and scrupulousness in collecting facts, and that boldness in deducing new inferences from them,
which were characteristic of his illustrious father. The subjects he took up were so abstruse,
that we could not hope to make our readers understand what he accomplished, or how far he excelled
his predecessors in his grasp and comprehension of them. For instance: if we tell them that
in 1820 he wrote a paper "On the Theory and Summation of Series;" communicated to the Cambridge
Philosophical Society his discovery that the two kinds of rotatory polarization in rock crystal
were related to the plagihedral faces of that mineral; and issued an able treatise "On Certain
Remarkable Instances of Deviation from Newton's Tints in the Polarized Tints of Uniaxal Crystals,"--they
will gain no very distinct idea of the significance or value of these researches. Again: it
will not be very intelligible to them to be informed that, in 1822, he communicated to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh a paper "On the Absorption of Light by Coloured Media", in which
he enunciated a new method of measuring the dispersion of transparent bodies by stopping the
green, yellow, and most refrangible red rays, and thus rendering visible the rays situated
rigorously at the end of the spectrum. But they will understand that these results could have
been attained only by the most assiduous industry and the most unflinching perseverance. And
it is on account of this industry and this perseverance that we recommend Herschel as an example
to our readers. They may not make the same progress in science, or achieve the same reputation.
It is not necessary they should. Humble work is not less honourable, if it be done conscientiously,
and with a sincere desire to do the best that it is in our power to do.

An interesting feature in the younger Herschel's character was his loving care for his father's
fame. He was ever most anxious that the full measure of his services to science should be recognized
and appreciated. Thus, in 1823, he writes to his aunt:--

     "I have been long threatening to send you a long letter, but
     have always been prevented by circumstances and want of leisure
     from executing my intention. The truth is, I have been so much
     occupied with astronomy of late, that I have had little time
     for anything else--the reduction of those double stars, and the
     necessity it has put me under of looking over the journals,
     reviews, &c, for information on what has already been done, and
     in many cases of re-casting up my father's measures, swallows
     up a great deal of time and labour. But I have the satisfaction
     of being able to state that our results in most instances
     confirm and establish my father's views in a remarkable manner.
     These inquiries have taken me off the republication of his
     printed papers for the present.

     "I think I shall be adding more to his fame by pursuing and
     verifying his observations than by reprinting them. But I have
     by no means abandoned the idea. Meanwhile, I am not sorry to
     hear they are about to be translated into German.... I hope
     this season to commence a series of observations with the
     twenty-foot reflector, which is now in fine order. The
     forty-foot is no longer capable of being used, but I shall
     suffer it to stand as a monument."

       *       *       *       *       *

In reference to this famous telescope, we may digress to state that its remains have been carefully
preserved. Then issuing from the tube, they ranged themselves around it, while its opening
was hermetically sealed.

       *       *       *       *       *

In March 1821, the younger Herschel, in conjunction with Sir James South, undertook a series
of observations on the distances and positions of three hundred and eighty double and triple
stars, by means of two splendid achromatic telescopes of five and seven focal length. These
were continued during 1822 and 1823, and have proved of great service to astronomers.

Having pursued with much zeal the study of optics, and experimented largely and carefully on
the double refraction and polarization of light, he compiled a treatise on the subject for
the "Encyclopaedia Metropolitana" It has been translated into French by M. Quetelet; and both
foreign and English men of science have been accustomed to regard it as indicating a new point
of departure in the important branch of science to which it is devoted.

Astronomy, however, became for him, as for his father, the great pursuit of his laborious life;
and having constructed telescopes of singular magnitude and power, he entered upon a study
of the Sidereal World. In 1825 he commenced a careful re-examination of the numerous nebulae
and starry clusters which had been discovered by his father, and described in the "Philosophical
Transactions," fixing their positions and investigating their aspects. He devoted eight years
to this magnum opus, completing it in 1832. The catalogue which he then contributed to the
"Philosophical Transactions" includes 2306 nebulae and star-clusters, of which 525 were discovered
by himself. While engaged in this difficult task, Herschel discovered between three and four
thousand double stars, which he described in the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society. His observations
were made with an excellent Newtonian telescope, twenty feet in focal length, and eighteen
and a half inches in aperture; and having obtained, to use his own expression, "a sufficient
mastery over the instrument," the idea occurred to him of making it available for a survey
of the southern heavens. Accordingly, he left England on the 13th of November 1833, and arrived
at Cape Town on the 16th of January 1834. Five days later he wrote to his aunt as follows:--

     "Here we are safely lauded and comfortably housed at the far
     end of Africa; and having secured the landing and final storage
     of all the telescopes and other matters, as far as I can see,
     without the slightest injury, I lose no time in reporting to
     you our good success so far. M----[1] and the children are,
     thank God, quite well; though, for fear you should think her
     too good a sailor, I ought to add that she continued sea-sick,
     at intervals, during the whole passage. We were nine weeks and
     two days at sea, during which period we experienced only one
     day of contrary wind. We had a brisk breeze 'right aft' all the
     way from the Bay of Biscay (which we never entered) to the
     'calm latitudes;' that is to say, to the space about five or
     six degrees broad near the equator, where the trade-winds
     cease, and where it is no unusual thing for a ship to lie
     becalmed for a month or six weeks, frying under a vertical sun.
     Such, however, was not our fate. We were detained only three or
     four days by the calms usual in that zone, but never quite
     still, or driven out of our course; and immediately on crossing
     'the line' got a good breeze (the south-east trade-wind), which
     carried us round Trinidad; then exchanged it for a north-west
     wind, which, with the exception of one day's squall from the
     south-east, carried us straight into Table Bay. On the night of
     the 14th we were told to prepare to see the Table Mountain.
     Next morning (N.B., we had not seen land before since leaving
     England), at dawn, the welcome word land' was heard; and there
     stood this magnificent hill, with all its attendant
     mountain-range down to the farthest point of South Africa, full
     in view, with a clear blue ghost-like outline; and that night
     we cast anchor within the Bay. Next morning early we landed,
     under escort of Dr. Stewart, M----'s brother, and you may
     imagine the meeting. We took up our quarters at a most
     comfortable lodging-house (Miss Robe's), and I proceeded,
     without loss of time, to unship the instruments. This was no
     trifling operation, as they filled (with the rest of our
     luggage) fifteen large boats; and, owing to the difficulty of
     getting them up from the hold of the ship, required several
     days to complete the landing. During the whole time (and indeed
     up to this moment) not a single south-east gale, the summer
     torment of this harbour, has occurred. This is a thing almost
     unheard of here, and has indeed been most fortunate, since
     otherwise it is not at all unlikely that some of the boats,
     laden as they were to the water's edge, might have been lost,
     and the whole business crippled.

     [Footnote 1: Herschel married a Miss Stewart in February 1826.]

     "For the last two or three days we have been looking at houses,
     and have all but agreed for one--a most beautiful place within
     four or five miles out of town, called 'The Grove.' In point of
     situation it is a perfect paradise, in rich and magnificent
     mountain-scenery, and sheltered from all winds, even the fierce
     south-easter, by thick surrounding woods. I must reserve for my
     next all description of the gorgeous display of flowers which
     adorns this splendid country, as well as of the astonishing
     brilliancy of the constellations, which the calm, clear nights
     show off to great advantage."

Mr. Herschel settled at Feldhausen, about 142 feet above the sea, and in long. 22° 46' 9".11
E., and lat. 33° 58' 26".59 S. Here he entered upon his great series of observations of the
southern heavens, which he continued with unwearied ardour for a period of four years. The
results were afterwards published, at the cost of the Duke of Northumberland, in a work entitled
"Results of Astronomical Observations made in 1834-35-36-37-38, at the Cape of Good Hope."
In this superb work, which placed its author on an equality with the most brilliant and illustrious
astronomers, he defined and described 4015 of the nebulae and star-groups in the southern hemisphere,
and 2995 of the double stars; besides entering into a variety of valuable particulars relative
to Halley's comet, the solar spots, the satellites of Saturn, and the measurement of the apparent
magnitude of stars.

On his return to England (in 1838) the astronomer received a noble welcome. Honours poured
in upon him. The Gold Medal of the Astronomical Society was conferred upon him for a second
time. William IV. had previously distinguished him with the Hanoverian order of K.H.; but,
on the coronation of Queen Victoria, he received a baronetcy; and in 1839 the University of
Oxford made him a D.C.L.

Continuing his career of scientific industry, he issued, in 1849, his important and very valuable
treatise entitled "Outlines of Astronomy." In 1845, he was appointed President of the British
Association; and in 1848, of the Royal Astronomical Society. To his other honours was added
that of Chevalier of the Prussian order, "Pour la Mérite," founded by Frederick the Great,
and bestowed at all times with a discrimination which renders it a deeply-coveted distinction.
Of the academies and leading scientific institutions of the Continent and the United States,
he was also an honorary or corresponding member.

Besides his works on meteorology and physical geography, he published, in 1867, an admirable
little volume--"Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects." In this he showed that he could
write with as much ease and intelligibility for the general public as for the higher order
of scientific inquirers. His style in this valuable manual of information has a charm of its
own, and entices the reader into the consideration of subjects apparently abstruse. He is earned
on from page to page without any great mental effort, and finds himself rapidly mastering difficulties
which he had been accustomed to regard as insuperable.

Let us take the first lecture on "Volcanoes and Earthquakes," and obtain a glimpse of Herschel's
mode of treatment. He refers to the greater and more permanent agencies which affect the configuration
of our planet. Everywhere, he says, and along every coast-line, we see the sea warring against
the land, and overcoming it; wearing it and eating it down, and battering it to pieces; grinding
those pieces to powder; carrying that powder away, and spreading it out over its own bottom,
by the continued effect of the tides and currents. What a scene of continual activity is presented
by the chalk-cliffs of Old England! How they are worn, and broken up, and fantastically sculptured
by the influence of winds and waters! Precipices cut down to the sea-beach, constantly hammered
by the waves, and constantly crumbling; the beach itself made of the flints outstanding after
the softer chalk has been ground down and washed away; themselves grinding one another under
the same ceaseless discipline--first rounded into pebbles, then worn into sand, and then carried
further and further down the slope, to be replaced by fresh ones from the same source. Here
the likeness of an old Gothic cathedral, with lofty arch, and shapely pinnacle; there the similitude
of a mass of medieval fortifications, with crumbling battlements and shattered towers!

The same thing, the same waste and wear, is going on everywhere, round every coast. The rivers
contribute their share to the great work of change. Look at the sand-banks at the mouth of
the Thames. What are they, says Sir John Herschel, but the materials of our island carried
out to sea by the stream? The Ganges carries away from the soil of India, and delivers into
the sea, twice as much solid substance weekly as is contained in the Great Pyramid of Egypt.
The Irawaddy sweeps off from Burmah sixty-two cubic feet of earth in every second of time,
on an average Sometimes vast amount of earthy materials is transferred from one locality to
another by river agency, as is the case in the deltas of the Nile and the Mississippi.

These changes operate silently, continuously, and unperceived by the ordinary observer; but
Nature does not limit herself always and everywhere to such peaceful agencies. At times, and
in certain places, she acts with startling abruptness and extraordinary violence. Let the volcano
and the earthquake attest the immensity of her power. Let the earthquake tell how, within the
memory of man, the whole coast-line of Chili, for 100 miles about Valparaiso, with the mighty
chain of the Andes, was hoisted at one blow, and in a single night (November 19, 1822), from
two to seven feet above its former level, leaving the beach below the old low-water mark high
and dry. One of the Andean peaks upheaved on this occasion was the colossal mass of Aconcagua,
which overlooks Valparaiso, and measures nearly 24,000 feet in height. On the same occasion,
at least 10,000 square miles of country were estimated as having been upheaved; and the upheaval
was not confined to the land, but extended far away to sea,--which was proved by the soundings
off Valparaiso and along the coast having been found considerably shallower than they were
before the shock.

In the year 1819, in an earthquake in India, in the district of Cutch, bordering on the Indus,
a tract of country more than fifty miles long and sixteen miles broad was suddenly raised ten
feet above its former level. The raised portion still stands up above the unraised, like a
long perpendicular rampart, known by the name of Ullah Bund, or God's Wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

With a similar fertility of illustration, Herschel sets before us the phenomena of volcanic
eruptions and their extraordinary effects.

In a district of Mexico, between the two streams of the Cintimba and the San Pedro, on the
28th of September 1789, a whole tract of ground, from three to four miles in extent, surged
up like a foam-bubble, or the swell of a wave, to a height of upwards of 500 feet. Flames,
lurid and crackling, broke forth over a surface of more than half a square league; and the
earth, as if softened by heat, was seen to rise and sink like the rolling tide. Vast chasms
opened in the earth, into which the two rivers poured their waters headlong; reappearing afterwards
at no great distance from a cluster of hornitos, or small volcanic cones, which sprang out
of the mighty mud-torrent that gradually covered the entire plain. Wonderful and awful as were
these phenomena, they were surpassed by the sudden opening of a chasm which vomited forth fire,
and red-hot stones and ashes, until they accumulated in a range of six large mountain masses,--one
of which, now known as the volcano of Jorullo, attains an altitude of 1690 feet above the ancient
level.

In like manner Sir John proceeds to describe an eruption of Mount Tomboro, in the island of
Sumbawa, the influence of which was felt to a distance of 1000 miles from its centre, in strange
tremulous motions of the earth, and in the clash and clang of loud explosions. He says that
he had seen it computed that the quantity of ashes and lava ejected in the course of this tremendous
eruption would have formed three mountains of the size of Mont Blanc.

As to the nature of the forces which operate to produce this astounding result, Herschel puts
forward a theory of singular simplicity and directness.

"The origin," he says, "of such an enormous power thus occasionally exerting itself, will no
doubt seem very marvellous--little short, indeed, of miraculous intervention; but the mystery,
after all, is not quite so great as at first it seems. We are permitted to look a little way
into these great secrets of Nature; not far enough, indeed, to clear up every difficulty, but
quite enough to penetrate us with admiration of that wonderful system of counterbalances and
compensations, that adjustment of causes and consequences, by which, throughout all nature,
evils are made to work their own cure, life to spring out of death, and renovation to tread
in the steps and efface the vestiges of decay." And he finds the clew to the secret, the key
of the whole matter, in the earth's vast central heat. This it is which produces the convulsions
that change the terrestrial configuration, and fill the minds of men with fear and awe. Conceive
of "a sea of fire, on which we are all floating, land and sea,"--a boiling, seething, incandescent
reservoir in the centre of our planet; and the solution of the problem will seem to you not
difficult. Such a sea would necessarily roll its liquid matter to and fro; and the removal
of ever so small a portion from one point to another on the earth's surface would tend to disturb
the equilibrium of the floating mass; just as, when a ship is launched into the river, the
water it displaces is carried to the opposite bank with greater or less violence, according
to the amount of displacement.

It is impossible, adds Herschel, but that this increase of pressure in some places and relief
in others must be very unequal in their bearings. So that at some point or another our planet's
floating crust must be brought into a state of strain, and if there be a weak or a soft part
a crack will at last take place. This is exactly what happened in the earthquake which originated
the Allah Bund, or God's Wall, in Cutch.

Volcanic eruptions are easily explicable on this principle,--the volcano being simply a vent
for the passage of heated and molten matter, which the elevating pressure of the liquid below
tends to eject. It is a well-known fact that volcanoes and earthquake-centres are nearly all
situated on the borders or in the immediate neighbourhood of seas and oceans; and the reason
would seem to be, that at such positions the accumulation of transported matter would necessarily
attain its maximum, to whatever cause it might be due. Then again, as Herschel points out,
the eruption of scorite and lava from the mouths of volcanoes, the result of the upward movement
of the fiery liquid below, compensates in some degree for the downward transfer of material
by detritus and alluvial deposits. Hence it may be inferred that, on the whole, the quantity
of solid matter above the ocean-level probably remains nearly always at the same amount.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is with this ease and lucidity that Sir John deals with scientific subjects of the greatest
importance,--his genius resembling the elephant's trunk, which can balance a straw or rend
an oak. In private life he displayed a simplicity of manner in harmony with the general unassumingness
of his character. In his books as in society, in society as in his books, he was the same,--that
is, free from all ostentation, free from self-pride, free from the arrogance of superior knowledge,
and as ready to unbend himself to a child as to discourse with men of science.

His career was a tranquil and a prosperous one, and, apart from the record of his discoveries
and his honours, presents nothing of interest. He was peculiarly happy in his domestic relations;
and in the wide circle of friends attracted by the mingled charm of his intellect and manners.
A devout Christian, a man of generosity and culture, a philosopher of great breadth of view
and infinite patience of research,--we can place few better or brighter examples before our
English youth than Sir John Herschel.

CHAPTER V.

We could not conclude our notice of this remarkable family without some further allusion to
its not least remarkable member--Caroline Lucretia Herschel.

To her varied accomplishments, her astronomical researches, and, above all, to her unwearied
and unselfish devotion to her brother William, we have already made frequent allusion. She
seemed to live for him and in him, to live for his fame and prosperity; and she poured out
at his feet the treasures of an inexhaustible affection. To assist him in his labours, at whatever
sacrifice, was her sole object in life; and she was certainly more careful for his reputation
than was he himself. During his declining years she was his principal stay and support, and
she was in daily attendance to note down or to calculate the results of his observations. His
death was a severe blow to her; but, with characteristic courage, she retired to Hanover, gave
herself up to scientific pursuits, and in comparative solitude spent her later years.

Her biographer writes:--

     "When all was over, her only desire seems to have been to hurry
     away. Hardly was her brother laid in his grave than she
     collected the few things she cared to keep, and left for ever
     the country where she had spent fifty years of her life, living
     and toiling for him and him only. 'If I should leave off making
     memorandums of such events as affect or are interesting to me,
     I should feel like what I am,--namely, a person that has
     nothing more to do in this world.' Mournful words! doubly
     mournful, when we know that the writer had nearly half an
     ordinary lifetime still between her and that grave which she
     made haste to prepare, in the hope that her course was nearly
     run. Who can think of her, at the age of seventy-two,
     heart-broken and desolate, going back to the home of her youth
     in the fond expectation of finding consolation, without a pang
     of sympathetic pity? She found everything changed."

That, indeed, is to all of us the greatest grief, when we return to the home of our youth.
It is as if, during the years of our absence, we had expected everything to stand as still
as in the palace of the Sleeping Beauty while the charm rested upon it. We are fain to see
the trees in their young greenness as when they sheltered our childhood, to find the hedgerows
blooming with the same violets, to hear the mill-stream murmuring with the same music. Time
furrows our brows with wrinkles, and streaks our hair with silver; our hearts grow colder;
our minds lose their elasticity and freshness; our friends pass away from our side. But still
we think to ourselves that in the old scenes all things are as they were. We say to ourselves:
The bird sings as of old in the elm-trees at the garden-foot; the rose-bush blossoms as of
old against our favourite window.

    "The varying year with blade and sheaf
      Clothes and re-clothes the happy plains;
    Here rests the sap within the leaf,
      Here stays the blood along the veins.
    Faint shadows, vapours lightly curled,
      Faint murmurs from the meadows come,
    Like hints and echoes of the world
      To spirits folded in the womb."

       *       *       *       *       *

But we regain the old familiar places, and, alas! we find that change has been as busy with
them as with us. The signs of decay are upon the trees; the brook has ceased to flow; the rose-bush
has withered to the ground. There are trees as green and streams as musical and flowers as
sweet as in our youth; but they are not the streams or flowers or trees which delighted us,
and to us they can never be as dear. But a worse alteration has taken place than any visible
in the face of nature. We discover that we have lost the old habits, the old capacity of enjoyment;
and we soon discover that it was the sympathies, the hopes, the aspirations of youth which,
after all, lent to these early scenes their rare and irrecoverable attraction.

And thus it was that Miss Herschel found everything changed. A life of fifty years spent in
a certain routine and upon certain objects, had unfitted her to tread in the old paths. It
soon became clear to her that all her ideas and feelings had been shaped and influenced in
a totally different path. More bitter still, we are told, she came to know that in her great
sorrow and inextinguishable love she was all alone. And bitterest of all was the feeling that,
in losing her brother she had lost the glory of her life, the source of her intellectual enjoyment.
"You don't know," she wrote to a friend, "the blank of life after having lived within the radiance
of genius." Yet to live in this blankness, and to do the best she could with it, became the
work of Caroline Lucretia Herschel at the age of threescore years and ten,--an age when most
of us have already put off our cares and anxieties, but when she began to enter on a new life,
with new habits, new duties, and new associations.

Her interest in astronomical pursuits never slackened, and she watched with eagerness the labours
and successes of her nephew. The respect paid to her in society as a "woman of science" was
not unwelcome, though she affected to make light of it. "You must give me leave," she wrote
to Sir John, "to send you any publications you can think of, without mentioning anything about
paying for them. For it is necessary I should every now and then lay out a little of my spare
cash in that, for the sake of supporting the reputation of being a learned lady; (there is
for you!) for I am not only looked at for such a one, but even stared at here in Hanover!"
It was with unaffected modesty she deprecated the honorary membership of the Irish Academy,
conferred on one who, she said, had not for many years discovered even a comet; yet she was
by no means insensible to the distinction. Every man of scientific eminence who visited Hanover
visited this aged lady; and her presence in the theatre, even in her latest years, was a constant
source of attraction. Such was the simple frugality of her habits, that she experienced an
actual difficulty in disposing of her income. She affirmed that the largest sum she could spend
upon herself was £50 a year; and the annual pension of £100, left by her brother, she refused,
or else devoted the quarterly or half-yearly payment to the purchase of some handsome present
for her nephew or niece.

Such was Caroline Lucretia Herschel; and as such she was a remarkable proof that the rarest
womanly gifts of affectionate forethought and loving devotion may exist in combination with
intellectual strength and scientific enthusiasm.

Of the force, keenness, and permanency of her sisterly love, an illustration of a pathetic
character occurs in a letter which she addressed to her nephew, February 27, 1823:--

     "I am grown much thinner than I was six months ago: when I look
     at my hands, they put me so in mind of what your dear father's
     were, when I saw them tremble under my eyes, as we latterly
     played at backgammon together."

It has long been the reproach of England that she treats, or rather that her Government treats,
her men of science, her artists, and her litterateurs with a disgraceful parsimony. It would
appear from the following letter that Sir William Herschel was inadequately rewarded, and that
his sister felt this keenly:--

     "There can be no harm," she says, "in telling my own dear
     nephew that I never felt satisfied with the support your father
     received towards his undertakings, and far less with the
     ungracious manner in which it was granted. For the last sum
     came with a message that more must never be asked for. (Oh! how
     degraded I felt, even for myself, whenever I thought of it!)
     And after all it came too late, and was not sufficient; for if
     expenses had been out of question, there would not have been so
     much time, and labour, and expense, for twenty-four men were at
     times by turns, day and night, at work, wasted on the first
     mirror, which had come out too light in the casting (Alex more
     than once would have destroyed it secretly, if I had not
     persuaded him against it); and without two mirrors, you know,
     such an instrument cannot be always ready for observing.

     "But what grieved me most was that to the last your poor father
     was struggling above his strength against difficulties which he
     well knew might have been removed if it had not been attended
     with too much expense. The last time the mirror was obliged to
     be taken from the polisher on account of some obstacle, I heard
     him say (in his usual manner of thinking aloud on such
     occasions), 'It is impossible to make the machine act as
     required without a room three times as large as this.'

     "I must say a few words of apology for the good King (George
     III.), and ascribe the close bargains which were made between
     him and my brother to the shabby, mean-spirited advisers who
     were undoubtedly consulted on such occasions; but they are dead
     and gone, and no more of them."

In February 1828, the great services which this high-souled woman had rendered to astronomical
science were fitly rewarded by the presentation to her of the Royal Astronomical Society's
gold medal,--the greatest honour which an astronomer can receive.

Mr. South, himself an astronomer of deserved repute, was charged with the duty of presenting
the medal; and in the course of his address he dwelt on the labours of her brother, and the
share she had had in them.

Sir William's first catalogue of new nebulae and clusters of stars, he said, amounting in number
to one thousand, was compiled with observations made from a twenty-foot reflector in the years
1783, 1784, and 1785. By the same instrument he was enabled to discover the positions of a
second thousand of these distant worlds in 1785 to 1788; while the places of five hundred others
were registered on the celestial map between 1788 and 1802. What, we may ask, were the discoveries
of Columbus compared with these? He revealed to Europe the existence of only a single continent;
Herschel unfolded to man the mysteries of the depths of the heavens.

But, continued Mr. South, when we have thus enumerated the results obtained in the course of
"sweeps" with this instrument, and taken into consideration the extent and variety of the other
observations which were at the same time in progress, a most important part yet remains untold.
Who participated in his toils? Who braved with him all the experiences of inclement weather?
Who shared, and consoled him in, his privations? A woman. And who was she? His sister. Miss
Herschel it was who by night acted as his amanuensis; she it was whose pen conveyed to paper
his observations as they issued from his lips; she it was who noted the various aspects and
phenomena of the objects observed; she it was who, after spending the still night beside the
wonder-exhibiting instrument, carried the rough, blurred manuscripts to her cottage at daybreak,
and by the morning produced a clean copy and register of the night's achievements; she it was
who planned the labour of each succeeding night; she it was who reduced into exact form every
calculation; she it was who arranged the whole in systematic order; and she it was who largely
assisted her illustrious brother to obtain his imperishable renown.

Miss Herschel's claims to the gratitude of men of science, and to the admiration of all who
can appreciate the beauty of self-sacrifice, did not end here. She was herself an astronomer,
and an original observer. At times her brother was enabled to dispense with her attendance.
You would suppose that such leisure nights she would gladly give up to rest. Not she. Her brother
might, at some unforeseen moment, require her aid, and consequently she preferred to be close
at hand. A seven-foot telescope planted on the lawn helped to while away the hours of waiting;
and it was to the occupation of these hours that science owed the discovery of the comet of
1786, of the comet of 1788, of the comet of 1791, of the comet of 1793, and of that of 1795,
now connected with the name of Encke. Many, also, of the nebulae contained in Sir William Herschel's
catalogues were detected by her keen and accurate gaze during these nights of lonely observation.
Indeed, as South remarked, when looking at the joint-labours of these two enthusiasts, we scarcely
know whether the warmer praise should be given to the intellectual might of the brother or
the ardent industry of the sister.

In 1797, continued her eulogist, she presented to the Royal Society a catalogue of 560 stars,
taken from Flamsteed's observations, the exact positions of which had not been previously defined.

Soon after the death of him to whom she had given up so much of her life, her best energies,
and her ripest faculties, she returned to Hanover,--unwilling, however, to relinquish the astronomical
researches which had been so pure and permanent a source of pleasure. She undertook and completed
the laborious "reduction" or registration of the places of 2500 nebulae, down to the 1st of
January 1800; thus presenting in one view the results of all the observations Sir William Herschel
had made upon those wonderful bodies, and triumphantly bringing to a close half a century of
scientific toil.

       *       *       *       *       *

We return to Miss Herschel's biography, in order to gather up a few particulars of her last
years, and to exhibit some of the tenderer features of her character.

On the occasion of her nephew's marriage, in 1829, she wrote to him in the following terms:--

     "MY DEAREST NEPHEW,--I have spent four days in vain endeavours
     to gain composure enough to give you an idea of the joyful
     sensation your letter of February 5th has caused me. But I can
     at this present moment find no words which would better express
     my happiness than those which escaped in exclamation from my
     lips, according to Simeon (see St. Luke ii. 29), 'Lord, now
     lettest thou thy servant depart in peace.'

     "I have now some hopes of passing the few remainder of my days
     in as much comfort as the separation from the land where I
     spent the greatest portion of my life, and from all those which
     are most dear to me, can admit. For, from the description given
     me of the dear young lady of your choice, I am confident my
     dear nephew's future happiness is now established.

     "I beg you will give my love to your dear lady, and best
     regards to all your new connections where they are due, in the
     best terms you can think of, for I am at present too unwell for
     writing all I could wish to say.

     "I have suffered much during this severe winter, and have not
     been able to leave my habitation above three or four times for
     the last three months; and feel, moreover, much fatigued by
     sitting eight times within the last ten days to Professor
     Tiedemann for having my picture taken--which he did at my
     apartment, and now he has taken it home to finish. I must
     conclude, for I wish to say a few words to your dear mother. It
     is now between eleven and twelve, and perhaps you are at this
     very moment receiving the blessing of Dr. Jennings; in which I
     most fervently join by saying, 'God bless you both!'"

Though eighty-three years old, Miss Herschel retained all her old powers of memory; and in
a letter to her new niece, Lady Herschel, written in 1833, she narrated some amusing reminiscences
of her nephew's early childhood.

He was only in his sixth year, she said, when she was separated for a while from the family
circle. But this did not hinder "John" and her from remaining the most affectionate friends,
and many a half or whole holiday he spent with her, devoting it to chemical experiments, in
which all kinds of boxes, tops of tea-canisters, pepper-cruets, tea-cups, and the like, served
for the necessary vessels, and the sand-tub furnished the matter to be analysed. Miss Herschel's
task was to prevent the introduction of water, which would have produced havoc on her carpet.
For his first notion of building, "John" was indebted to the affection of his aunt, who, on
his second or third birthday, lifted him in the trenches to lay the south corner-stone of the
building which was added to Sir William's original house at Slough. On further reflection,
she felt convinced that this incident occurred in the second year of her nephew's age, for
she remembered being obliged to use "a deal of coaxing" to make him part with the money he
was to lay on the comer-stone.

About the same time, when she was sitting near him one day, listening to his prattle, her attention
was drawn to his repeated and formidable hammering. On investigating into its object, she found
that it was the continuation of the labour of many days, during which he had undermined the
ground about the corner of the house, had entirely removed the corner-stone, and was zealously
toiling to overthrow the next! His aunt gave the alarm, and old John Wiltshire, a favourite
carpenter, ran to the spot, exclaiming, "Heaven bless the boy! if he is not going to pull the
house down!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1834, Sir John, as already stated, made a voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, in order to undertake
a series of observations of the southern heavens. His aunt had now reached the ripe old age
of eighty-four, an age attained by few,--and when attained, bringing with it in almost every
case a painful diminution of physical energy, and a corresponding decline in mental force.
But such was not the case with this remarkable woman. She still continued an active correspondence
with her nephew, and manifested the liveliest interest in all his movements. It is astonishing
to mark the vivacity and clearness of the letters she wrote at this advanced period of her
life. Thus, on the 1st of May 1834, she writes to Sir John:--

     "Both yourself and my dear niece urged me to write often, and
     to write always twice; but, alas! I could not overcome the
     reluctance I felt of [at] telling you that it is over with me
     for getting up at eight or nine o'clock, dressing myself,
     eating my dinner alone without an appetite, falling asleep over
     a novel (I am obliged to lay down to recover the fatigue of the
     morning's exertions), awaking with nothing but the prospect of
     the trouble of getting into bed, where very seldom I get above
     two hours' sleep. It is enough to make a parson swear! To this
     I must add, I found full employment for the few moments, when I
     could rouse myself from a melancholy lethargy, to spend in
     looking over my store of astronomical and other memorandums of
     upwards of fifty years' collecting."

Later in the year she writes:--

     "I know not how to thank you sufficiently for the cheering
     account you give of the climate agreeing so well with you and
     all who are so dear to me, and that you find all about you so
     agreeable and comfortable;... so that I have nothing left to
     wish for but a continuation of the same, and that I may only
     live to see the handwriting of your dear Caroline, though I
     have my doubts about lasting till then, for the thermometer
     standing 80° and 90° for upwards of two mouths, day and night,
     in nay rooms (to which I am mostly confined), has made great
     havoc in my brittle constitution. I beg you will look to it
     that she learns to make her figures as you find them in your
     father's MSS., such as he taught me to make. The daughter of a
     mathematician must write plain figures.

     "My little grand-nephew making alliance with your workmen shows
     that he is taking after his papa. I see you now in idea,
     running about in petticoats among your father's carpenters,
     working with little tools of your own; and John Wiltshire (one
     of Pitt's men, whom you may perhaps remember) crying out, 'Dang
     the boy, if he can't drive in a nail as well as I can!'

     "I thank you for the astronomical portion of your letter, and
     for your promise of future accounts of uncommon objects. It is
     not clusters of stars I want you to discover in the body of
     the Scorpion [the astronomical sign, so called], or thereabout,
     for that does not answer my expectation, remembering having
     once heard your father, after a long, awful silence, exclaim,
     'Hier ist wahrhaftig ein loch ein Himmel!' [Here, indeed, is a
     great gap in Heaven!], and, as I said before, stopping
     afterwards at the same spot, but leaving it unsatisfied."

These extracts may seem trivial to some of our readers, but they are not so, rightly considered.
They illustrate the wonderful mental vivacity of their venerable writer, and in this respect
are useful; but still more useful in showing how cheerfully she bore the burden of her years,
and with what intellectual serenity she looked forward to her end.

We own that the lives of the Herschels are what the world would call uneventful. The discovery
of a new planet, or of the orbit of a star, seems less romantic to the vulgar taste than the
slaughter of ten thousand men on a field of battle. It will seem to the unthinking that the
victorious general or the daring seaman, the leader of a forlorn hope, or the captain who goes
down with his sinking ship, affords an example worthier of imitation than the patient, watchful,
enthusiastic astronomer or his devoted sister. His, they will say, was a noble life. Be it
so; but every life is noble which is spent in the path of duty. Do what comes to your hand
to do with all honesty and completeness, and you will make your life noble. Subdue your passions,
master your evil thoughts, observe the laws of temperance and purity, be truthful, be firm,
be honest, and keep ever before you the law of Christ as the law of your daily work, and you
will make your life noble. We cannot all be great commanders or daring captains, we cannot
all be distinguished men of science; but we can all be righteously-living men, endeavouring
to raise others by our example, and it is a higher aim to live purely than to live successfully.
We cannot all command the success, just as we do not all enjoy the intellectual powers, of
a Herschel; but we can emulate the industry and perseverance of the astronomer, we can copy
the devoted affection and self-denial of his sister. The sorriest mistake of which men can
be guilty,--yet it is a mistake which has clouded many lives,--is to suppose that duty is less
imperative in its claims on the humble and unknown than on men raised or born to eminent position.
Let it be understood and remembered that each one of us can rise to a standard of true heroism,
by cultivating the graces of the Christian character, and doing the work which God has appointed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir John Herschel returned to England in 1838, and in July of the same year he and his little
son paid a visit to Miss Herschel. It is characteristic that her intense anxiety as to the
proper treatment of her little grand-nephew--his sleep, his food, his playthings--greatly disturbed
her peace. "I rather suffered him," she writes, "to hunger, than would let him eat anything
hurtful; indeed, I would not let him eat anything at all unless his papa was present." Her
biographer remarks, that great as was her joy to see once more almost the only living being
upon whom she poured some of that wealth of affection with which her heart never ceased to
overflow, yet it was on the disappointments and shortcomings of those few days, those precious
days, that she chiefly dwelt; and the abrupt termination of her nephew's visit filled her with
the deepest sorrow. With the generous, but, as it proved, mistaken intention of sparing her
feelings, her nephew left without informing her beforehand of the exact time of his departure,
simply bidding her good-night prior to his return to his inn. Great was her distress when she
found that he and his son had quitted Hanover at four o'clock on the following morning.

Her introduction to her grand-nephew, as described by his father, Sir John, was exceedingly
quaint:--

     "Now, let me tell you how tilings fell out. Dr. Groskopff took
     Willie with him to Aunty, but without saying who he was. Says
     she, 'What little boy is that?' Says he, 'The son of a friend
     of mine. Ask him his name.' However, Willie would not tell his
     name. 'Where do you come from, little fellow?' 'From the Cape
     of Good Hope,' says Willie. 'What is that he says?' 'He says he
     comes from the Cape of Good Hope.' 'Ay! and who is he? What is
     his name?' 'His name is Herschel.' 'Yes,'says Willie. 'What is
     that he says?' 'He says he comes from the Cape of Good Hope.'
     'Ay! and who is he? What is his name?' 'His name is Herschel.'
     'Yes,' says Willie, 'William James Herschel.' 'Ach, mem Gott!
     das nicht möglich; ist dieser kleines neffeu's sohn?' And so it
     all came out; and when I came to her all was understood, and we
     sat down and talked as quietly as if we had parted but
     yesterday."

       *       *       *       *       *

In a letter which she wrote to Lady Herschel in 1838, we find some reminiscences of her early
years. She says that when, at the age of twenty-two, she first visited England, there was no
kind of ornamental needle-work, knitting, plaiting hair, stringing beads and bugles, and the
like, of which she did not make samples by way of mastering the art. As she was the only girl,
and consequently the Cinderella, of the family, she could not find time, however, for much
self-improvement. She was not, for instance, a skilled musician, but she was able to play the
second violin part of an overture or easy quartette. And it is worth notice that the Herschels
were something more than astronomers only. Both Sir William and his son, great as they were
in their special department of science, took care to cultivate their minds generally; were
mathematicians, chemists, geologists, and men of letters. And here is a lesson for our younger
readers. The mind should always be diverted towards one particular object; it should be the
aim of everybody to attain towards supreme excellence, if possible, in some one pursuit. On
the other hand, he should gather knowledge, more or less, in every field, so as to avoid narrowness
of view and poverty of idea. Versatility does not necessarily mean superficiality; we may know
much of many things, and more of one thing. A man who is only a botanist, shuts himself out
from all the truest and deepest pleasures of knowledge. It may be very clever for a violinist
to play on a single string; but he must play on all, if he would bring out the full harmonies
of his instrument, and do justice to its extraordinary powers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Herschel's enjoyment of life, which, when not carried to an excess, is a Christian duty,
continued to the very last. When she was in her ninetieth year, she rose as usual every day,
dressed, ate, drank, rested on her sofa, read and conversed with her numerous visitors; still
taking an interest in science and literature, even in public affairs, and still occupying herself
with all that concerned the evergrowing reputation of her nephew. Of course, she could not
escape the infirmities of old age, but by cheerfulness and patience she did her best to alleviate
them. In recalling incidents of her early life, she frequently gave evidence of her good-humoured
contentment. In 1840, writing to her niece, she refers to an incident which occurred in the
early part of the forty-foot telescope's existence, when "God save the King" was sung in it
by her brother and his guests, who rose from the dinner-table for the purpose, and entered
the tube in procession. She adds that among the company were two Misses Stows, one of whom
was a famous pianoforte player; some of the Griesbachs (well-known musicians), who accompanied
on the oboe, or any instrument they could get hold of; and herself, who was one of the nimblest
and foremost to get in and out of the tube. "But now," she adds, "lack-a-day! I can hardly
cross the room without help. But what of that? Dorcas, in the Beggar's Opera, says, 'One cannot
eat one's cake and have it too!'"

She relates, in the same letter, a curious anecdote of the old and celebrated tube. Before
the optical apparatus was finished, many visitors took a pleasure in walking through it,--among
the rest, on one occasion, King George III. and the Archbishop of Canterbury. The latter following
the king, and finding it difficult to proceed, his majesty turned and gave him his hand, saying,
"Come, my Lord Bishop; I will show you the way to heaven!"

Then, with that astonishing memory of hers, which kept its greenness until the very last, she
notes that this occurred on August 17, 1787, when the King and Queen, the Duke of York, and
some of the princesses were of the company.

       *       *       *       *       *

From another letter we take a lively little picture of a Christmas in Hanover:--

She had been told that keeping Christmas in the German sense was coming to be very general
in England; but her shrewd, practical turn of mind induced her to hope that the English would
never go "such lengths in foolery." At Hanover, she wrote, the tradespeople had been for many
weeks in full employ, framing and mounting the embroideries of the ladies and girls of all
classes; of all classes, for not a folly or extravagancy existed among the great but it was
imitated by the little. The shops were beautifully lighted up by gas, and the last three days
before Christmas all that could tempt or attract was exhibited in the market-places in booths
lighted up in the evening, whither everybody hastened to gaze and to spend their money. Cooks
and housemaids presented one another with knitted bags and purses; the cobbler's daughter embroidered
"neck-cushions" for her friend the butcher's daughter. These were made up by the upholsterer
at great expense, lined with white satin; the upper part, on which the back rested, being wrought
with gold, silver, and pearls.

       *       *       *       *       *

But we must no longer delay the reader by our gossip. Enough has been said to illustrate the
character of a remarkable woman, and of those features of it--her cheerfulness, her patience,
her industry, her devoted affection, her unselfishness--which all of us may be the better for
studying and imitating. Our limits compel us to draw our simple narrative to a close, and we
must pass over the delight with which she received and read Sir John Herschel's great work,
"Cape Observations,"--a noble monument of the perseverance and strenuous labour of genius;
but of twofold interest to her, because it not only testified to the eminent qualities of her
nephew, but brought to a noble conclusion the vast undertaking of that nephew's father and
her own beloved brother--the survey of the nebulous heavens.

A letter written by her friend Miss Becksdorff, on the 6th of January 1848, describes Caroline
Herschel's last days:--

     "Her decided objection to having her bed placed in a warmer
     room had brought on a cold and cough; and so firm was her
     determination to preserve her old customs, and not to yield to
     increasing infirmities, that when, upon her doctor's positive
     orders, I had a bed made up in her room, before she came to sit
     in it one day, it was not till two o'clock in the night that
     Betty could persuade her to lie down in it. Upon going to her
     the next morning, I had the satisfaction, however, of finding
     her perfectly reconciled to the arrangement; she now felt the
     comfort of being undisturbed, and she has kept to her bed ever
     since. Her mental and bodily strength is gradually declining.
     But a few days ago she was ready for a joke. When Mrs. Clarke
     told her that General Halkett sent his love, and 'hoped she
     would soon be so well again that he might come and give her a
     kiss, as he had done on her birthday,' she looked only archly
     at her, and said, 'Tell the general that I have not tasted
     anything since I liked so well.' I have just left her, and upon
     my asking her to give me a message for her nephew, she said,
     'Tell them I am good for nothing,' and went to sleep again."

On the 9th of January 1848 she breathed her last, passing away with a Christian's tranquillity.[1]

[Footnote 1: The particulars recorded in the foregoing pages are chiefly taken from Mrs. John
Herschel's very interesting "Memoir and Correspondence of Caroline Herschel."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Her body was followed to the grave by many of her relatives and friends, the royal carriages
forming part of the funeral procession. The coffin was adorned with garlands of laurel and
cypress and palm branches, sent by the Crown-Princess from Herrnhausen; and the service was
conducted in that same garrison-church in which, nearly a century before, she had been christened,
and afterwards confirmed. And, as proving her love and fidelity to the last, in her coffin
were placed, by her express desire, "a lock of her beloved brother's hair, and an old, almost
obliterated almanac that had been used by her father."

       *       *       *       *       *

May our readers be induced, by their perusal of these pages, to emulate the Herschels--brother,
sister, nephew--in all the bright and lovely qualities that ennoble life; in their fixity of
purpose, their elevation of thought, their purity of character, their self-denial, their industry,
their hopefulness, and their faith!

     [The following inscription is engraved on Miss Herschel's tomb.
     It begins: "Hier ruhet die irdische Hülle von CAROLINA
     HERSCHEL, Geboren zu Hannover den 16ten Marz 1750, Gestorben,
     den 9ten Januar 1848." But, for the convenience of our young
     readers, we give it in English:--

         HERE RESTS THE EARTHLY CASE OF
             C A R O L I N E   H E R S C H E L.
         BORN AT HANOVER, MARCH 10, 1750.
             DIED JANUARY 9, 1848.

     "The eyes of her now glorified were, while here below, directed
     towards the starry heavens. Her own discoveries of comets, and
     her share in the immortal labours of her brother, William
     Herschel, bear witness of this to succeeding ages.

     "The Royal Irish Academy of Dublin, and the Royal Astronomical
     Society of London, enrolled her name among their members.

     "At the age of 97 years 10 months, she fell asleep in calm
     rest, and in the full possession of her faculties; following
     into a better life her father, Isaac Herschel, who lived to the
     age of 60 years, 2 months, 17 days, and has lain buried not far
     off since the 29th of March 1767."

     This epitaph was mainly written by Miss Herschel herself, and
     the allusion to her brother is characteristic.]

