Ellis & White, 1874) will not fail to have noticed the striking figure made among those jejune
imitators of Provençal mannerism by two rhymesters, Cecco Angiolieri and Folgore da San Gemignano.
Both belong to the school of Siena, and both detach themselves from the metaphysical fashion
of their epoch by clearness of intention and directness of style. The sonnets of both are remarkable
for what in the critical jargon of to-day might be termed realism. Cecco is even savage and
brutal. He anticipates Villon from afar, and is happily described by Mr. Rossetti as the prodigal,
or 'scamp' of the Dantesque circle. The case is different with Folgore. There is no poet who
breathes a fresher air of gentleness. He writes in images, dealing but little with ideas. Every
line presents a picture, and each picture has the charm of a miniature fancifully drawn and
brightly coloured on a missal-margin. Cecco and Folgore alike have abandoned the mediæval mysticism
which sounds unreal on almost all Italian lips but Dante's. True Italians, they are content
to live for life's sake, and to take the world as it presents itself to natural senses. But
Cecco is perverse and impious. His love has nothing delicate; his hatred is a morbid passion.
At his worst or best (for his best writing is his worst feeling) we find him all but rabid.
If Caligula, for instance, had written poetry, he might have piqued himself upon the following
sonnet; only we must do Cecco the justice of remembering that his rage is more than half ironical
and humorous:--

  An I were fire, I would burn up the world;
      An I were wind, with tempest I'd it break;
      An I were sea, I'd drown it in a lake;
      An I were God, to hell I'd have it hurled;
  An I were Pope, I'd see disaster whirled
      O'er Christendom, deep joy thereof to take;
      An I were Emperor, I'd quickly make
      All heads of all folk from their necks be twirled;
  An I were death, I'd to my father go;
      An I were life, forthwith from him I'd fly;
      And with my mother I'd deal even so;
  An I were Cecco, as I am but I,
      Young girls and pretty for myself I'd hold,
      But let my neighbours take the plain and old.

Of all this there is no trace in Folgore. The worst a moralist could say of him is that he
sought out for himself a life of pure enjoyment. The famous Sonnets on the Months give particular
directions for pastime in a round of pleasure suited to each season. The Sonnets on the Days
are conceived in a like hedonistic spirit. But these series are specially addressed to members
of the Glad Brigades and Spending Companies, which were common in the great mercantile cities
of mediæval Italy. Their tone is doubtless due to the occasion of their composition, as compliments
to Messer Nicholò di Nisi and Messer Guerra Cavicciuoli.

The mention of these names reminds me that a word need be said about the date of Folgore. Mr.
Rossetti does not dispute the commonly assigned date of 1260, and takes for granted that the
Messer Nicolò of the Sonnets on the Months was the Sienese gentleman referred to by Dante in
a certain passage of the 'Inferno':[1]--

  And to the Poet said I: 'Now was ever
      So vain a people as the Sienese?
      Not for a certainty the French by far.'
  Whereat the other leper, who had heard me,
      Replied unto my speech: 'Taking out Stricca,
      Who knew the art of moderate expenses,
  And Nicolò, who the luxurious use
      Of cloves discovered earliest of all
      Within that garden where such seed takes root.
  And taking out the band, among whom squandered
      Caccia d' Ascian his vineyards and vast woods,
      And where his wit the Abbagliato proffered.'

Now Folgore refers in his political sonnets to events of the years 1314 and 1315; and the correct
reading of a line in his last sonnet on the Months gives the name of Nicholò di Nisi to the
leader of Folgore's 'blithe and lordly Fellowship.' The first of these facts leads us to the
conclusion that Folgore flourished in the first quarter of the fourteenth, instead of in the
third quarter of the thirteenth century. The second prevents our identifying Nicholò di Nisi
with the Niccolò de' Salimbeni, who is thought to have been the founder of the Fellowship of
the Carnation. Furthermore, documents have recently been brought to light which mention at
San Gemignano, in the years 1305 and 1306, a certain Folgore. There is no sufficient reason
to identify this Folgore with the poet; but the name, to say the least, is so peculiar that
its occurrence in the records of so small a town as San Gemignano gives some confirmation to
the hypothesis of the poet's later date. Taking these several considerations together, I think
we must abandon the old view that Folgore was one of the earliest Tuscan poets, a view which
is, moreover, contradicted by his style. Those critics, at any rate, who still believe him
to have been a predecessor of Dante's, are forced to reject as spurious the political sonnets
referring to Monte Catini and the plunder of Lucca by Uguccione della Faggiuola. Yet these
sonnets rest on the same manuscript authority as the Months and Days, and are distinguished
by the same qualities.[2]

    [1] Inferno, xxix. 121.--Longfellow.

    [2] The above points are fully discussed by Signor Giulio
    Navone, in his recent edition of Le Rime di Folgore da
    San Gemignano e di Cene da la Chitarra d' Arezzo.
    Bologna: Romagnoli, 1880. I may further mention that in
    the sonnet on the Pisans, translated on p. 18, which
    belongs to the political series, Folgore uses his own
    name.

Whatever may be the date of Folgore, whether we assign his period to the middle of the thirteenth
or the beginning of the fourteenth century, there is no doubt but that he presents us with
a very lively picture of Italian manners, drawn from the point of view of the high bourgeoisie.
It is on this account that I have thought it worth while to translate five of his Sonnets on
Knighthood, which form the fragment that remains to us from a series of seventeen. Few poems
better illustrate the temper of Italian aristocracy when the civil wars of two centuries had
forced the nobles to enroll themselves among the burghers, and when what little chivalry had
taken root in Italy was fast decaying in a gorgeous over-bloom of luxury. The institutions
of feudal knighthood had lost their sterner meaning for our poet. He uses them for the suggestion
of delicate allegories fancifully painted. Their mysterious significance is turned to gaiety,
their piety to amorous delight, their grimness to refined enjoyment. Still these changes are
effected with perfect good taste and in perfect good faith. Something of the perfume of true
chivalry still lingered in a society which was fast becoming mercantile and diplomatic. And
this perfume is exhaled by the petals of Folgore's song-blossom. He has no conception that
to readers of Mort Arthur, or to Founders of the Garter, to Sir Miles Stapleton, Sir Richard
Fitz-Simon, or Sir James Audley, his ideal knight would have seemed but little better than
a scented civet-cat. Such knights as his were all that Italy possessed, and the poet-painter
was justly proud of them, since they served for finished pictures of the beautiful in life.

The Italians were not a feudal race. During the successive reigns of Lombard, Frankish, and
German masters, they had passively accepted, stubbornly resisted feudalism, remaining true
to the conviction that they themselves were Roman. In Roman memories they sought the traditions
which give consistency to national consciousness. And when the Italian communes triumphed finally
over Empire, counts, bishops, and rural aristocracy; then Roman law was speedily substituted
for the 'asinine code' of the barbarians, and Roman civility gave its tone to social customs
in the place of Teutonic chivalry. Yet just as the Italians borrowed, modified, and misconceived
Gothic architecture, so they took a feudal tincture from the nations of the North with whom
they came in contact. Their noble families, those especially who followed the Imperial party,
sought the honour of knighthood; and even the free cities arrogated to themselves the right
of conferring this distinction by diploma on their burghers. The chivalry thus formed in Italy
was a decorative institution. It might be compared to the ornamental frontispiece which masks
the structural poverty of such Gothic buildings as the Cathedral of Orvieto.

On the descent of the German Emperor into Lombardy, the great vassals who acknowledged him,
made knighthood, among titles of more solid import, the price of their allegiance.[1] Thus
the chronicle of the Cortusi for the year 1354 tells us that when Charles IV. 'was advancing
through the March, and had crossed the Oglio, and was at the borders of Cremona, in his camp
upon the snow, he, sitting upon his horse, did knight the doughty and noble man, Francesco
da Carrara, who had constantly attended him with a great train, and smiting him upon the neck
with his palm, said: "Be thou a good knight, and loyal to the Empire." Thereupon the noble
German peers dismounted, and forthwith buckled on Francesco's spurs. To them the Lord Francesco
gave chargers and horses of the best he had.' Immediately afterwards Francesco dubbed several
of his own retainers knights. And this was the customary fashion of these Lombard lords. For
we read how in the year 1328 Can Grande della Scala, after the capture of Padua, 'returned
to Verona, and for the further celebration of his victory upon the last day of October held
a court, and made thirty-eight knights with his own hand of the divers districts of Lombardy.'
And in 1294 Azzo d'Este 'was knighted by Gerardo da Camino, who then was Lord of Treviso, upon
the piazza of Ferrara, before the gate of the Bishop's palace. And on the same day at the same
hour the said Lord Marquis Azzo made fifty-two knights with his own hand, namely, the Lord
Francesco, his brother, and others of Ferrara, Modena, Bologna, Florence, Padua, and Lombardy;
and on this occasion was a great court held in Ferrara.' Another chronicle, referring to the
same event, says that the whole expenses of the ceremony, including the rich dresses of the
new knights, were at the charge of the Marquis. It was customary, when a noble house had risen
to great wealth and had abundance of fighting men, to increase its prestige and spread abroad
its glory by a wholesale creation of knights. Thus the Chronicle of Rimini records a high court
held by Pandolfo Malatesta in the May of 1324, when he and his two sons, with two of his near
relatives and certain strangers from Florence, Bologna, and Perugia, received this honour.
At Siena, in like manner, in the year 1284, 'thirteen of the house of Salimbeni were knighted
with great pomp.'

    [1] The passages used in the text are chiefly drawn from
    Muratori's fifty-third Dissertation.

It was not on the battlefield that the Italians sought this honour. They regarded knighthood
as a part of their signorial parade. Therefore Republics, in whom perhaps, according to strict
feudal notions, there was no fount of honour, presumed to appoint procurators for the special
purpose of making knights. Florence, Siena, and Arezzo, after this fashion gave the golden
spurs to men who were enrolled in the arts of trade or commerce. The usage was severely criticised
by Germans who visited Italy in the Imperial train. Otto Frisingensis, writing the deeds of
Frederick Barbarossa, speaks with bitterness thereof: 'To the end that they may not lack means
of subduing their neighbours, they think it no shame to gird as knights young men of low birth,
or even handicraftsmen in despised mechanic arts, the which folk other nations banish like
the plague from honourable and liberal pursuits.' Such knights, amid the chivalry of Europe,
were not held in much esteem; nor is it easy to see what the cities, which had formally excluded
nobles from their government, thought to gain by aping institutions which had their true value
only in a feudal society. We must suppose that the Italians were not firmly set enough in their
own type to resist an enthusiasm which inflamed all Christendom. At the same time they were
too Italian to comprehend the spirit of the thing they borrowed. The knights thus made already
contained within themselves the germ of those Condottieri who reduced the service of arms to
a commercial speculation. But they lent splendour to the Commonwealth, as may be seen in the
grave line of mounted warriors, steel-clad, with open visors, who guard the commune of Siena
in Ambrogio Lorenzetti's fresco. Giovanni Villani, in a passage of his Chronicle which deals
with the fair state of Florence just before the outbreak of the Black and White parties, says
the city at that epoch numbered 'three hundred Cavalieri di Corredo, with many clubs of knights
and squires, who morning and evening went to meat with many men of the court, and gave away
on high festivals many robes of vair.' It is clear that these citizen knights were leaders
of society, and did their duty to the commonwealth by adding to its joyous cheer. Upon the
battlefields of the civil wars, moreover, they sustained at their expense the charges of the
cavalry.

Siena was a city much given to parade and devoted to the Imperial cause, in which the institution
of chivalry flourished. Not only did the burghers take knighthood from their procurators, but
the more influential sought it by a special dispensation from the Emperor. Thus we hear how
Nino Tolomei obtained a Cæsarean diploma of knighthood for his son Giovanni, and published
it with great pomp to the people in his palace. This Giovanni, when he afterwards entered religion,
took the name of Bernard, and founded the Order of Monte Oliveto.

Owing to the special conditions of Italian chivalry, it followed that the new knight, having
won his spurs by no feat of arms upon the battlefield, was bounden to display peculiar magnificence
in the ceremonies of his investiture. His honour was held to be less the reward of courage
than of liberality. And this feeling is strongly expressed in a curious passage of Matteo Villani's
Chronicle. 'When the Emperor Charles had received the crown in Rome, as we have said, he turned
towards Siena, and on the 19th day of April arrived at that city; and before he entered the
same, there met him people of the commonwealth with great festivity upon the hour of vespers;
in the which reception eight burghers, given to display but miserly, to the end they might
avoid the charges due to knighthood, did cause themselves then and there to be made knights
by him. And no sooner had he passed the gates than many ran to meet him without order in their
going or provision for the ceremony, and he, being aware of the vain and light impulse of that
folk, enjoined upon the Patriarch to knight them in his name. The Patriarch could not withstay
from knighting as many as offered themselves; and seeing the thing so cheap, very many took
the honour, who before that hour had never thought of being knighted, nor had made provision
of what is required from him who seeketh knighthood, but with light impulse did cause themselves
to be borne upon the arms of those who were around the Patriarch; and when they were in the
path before him, these raised such an one on high, and took his customary cap off, and after
he had had the cheek-blow which is used in knighting, put a gold-fringed cap upon his head,
and drew him from the press, and so he was a knight. And after this wise were made four-and-thirty
on that evening, of the noble and lesser folk. And when the Emperor had been attended to his
lodging, night fell, and all returned home; and the new knights without preparation or expense
celebrated their reception into chivalry with their families forthwith. He who reflects with
a mind not subject to base avarice upon the coming of a new-crowned Emperor into so famous
a city, and bethinks him how so many noble and rich burghers were promoted to the honour of
knighthood in their native land, men too by nature fond of pomp, without having made any solemn
festival in common or in private to the fame of chivalry, may judge this people little worthy
of the distinction they received.'

This passage is interesting partly as an instance of Florentine spite against Siena, partly
as showing that in Italy great munificence was expected from the carpet-knights who had not
won their spurs with toil, and partly as proving how the German Emperors, on their parade expeditions
through Italy, debased the institutions they were bound to hold in respect. Enfeebled by the
extirpation of the last great German house which really reigned in Italy, the Empire was now
no better than a cause of corruption and demoralisation to Italian society. The conduct of
a man like Charles disgusted even the most fervent Ghibellines; and we find Fazio degli Uberti
flinging scorn upon his avarice and baseness in such lines as these:--

  Sappi ch' i' son Italia che ti parlo,
  Di Lusimburgo ignominioso Carlo ...
  Veggendo te aver tese tue arti
  A tór danari e gir con essi a casa ...
  Tu dunque, Giove, perche 'l Santo uccello
  Da questo Carlo quarto
  Imperador non togli e dalle mani
  Degli altri, lurchi moderni Germani
  Che d' aquila un allocco n' hanno fatto?

From a passage in a Sienese chronicle we learn what ceremonies of bravery were usual in that
city when the new knights understood their duty. It was the year 1326. Messer Francesco Bandinelli
was about to be knighted on the morning of Christmas Day. The friends of his house sent peacocks
and pheasants by the dozen, and huge pies of marchpane, and game in quantities. Wine, meat,
and bread were distributed to the Franciscan and other convents, and a fair and noble court
was opened to all comers. Messer Sozzo, father of the novice, went, attended by his guests,
to hear high mass in the cathedral; and there upon the marble pulpit, which the Pisans carved,
the ceremony was completed. Tommaso di Nello bore his sword and cap and spurs before him upon
horseback. Messer Sozzo girded the sword upon the loins of Messer Francesco, his son aforesaid.
Messer Pietro Ridolfi, of Rome, who was the first vicar that came to Siena, and the Duke of
Calabria buckled on his right spur. The Captain of the People buckled on his left. The Count
Simone da Battifolle then undid his sword and placed it in the hands of Messer Giovanni di
Messer Bartolo de' Fibenzi da Rodi, who handed it to Messer Sozzo, the which sword had previously
been girded by the father on his son. After this follows a list of the illustrious guests,
and an inventory of the presents made to them by Messer Francesco. We find among these 'a robe
of silken cloth and gold, skirt, and fur, and cap lined with vair, with a silken cord.' The
description of the many costly dresses is minute; but I find no mention of armour. The singers
received golden florins, and the players upon instruments 'good store of money.' A certain
Salamone was presented with the clothes which the novice doffed before he took the ceremonial
bath. The whole catalogue concludes with Messer Francesco's furniture and outfit. This, besides
a large wardrobe of rich clothes and furs, contains armour and the trappings for charger and
palfrey. The Corte Bandita, or open house held upon this occasion, lasted for eight days, and
the charges on the Bandinelli estates must have been considerable.

Knights so made were called in Italy Cavalieri Addobbati, or di Corredo, probably because the
expense of costly furniture was borne by them--addobbo having become a name for decorative
trappings, and Corredo for equipment. The latter is still in use for a bride's trousseau. The
former has the same Teutonic root as our verb 'to dub.' But the Italians recognised three other
kinds of knights, the Cavalieri Bagnati, Cavalieri di Scudo, and Cavalieri d'Arme. Of the four
sorts Sacchetti writes in one of his novels:--'Knights of the Bath are made with the greatest
ceremonies, and it behoves them to be bathed and washed of all impurity. Knights of Equipment
are those who take the order with a mantle of dark green and the gilded garland. Knights of
the Shield are such as are made knights by commonwealths or princes, or go to investiture armed,
and with the casque upon their head. Knights of Arms are those who in the opening of a battle,
or upon a foughten field, are dubbed knights.' These distinctions, however, though concordant
with feudal chivalry, were not scrupulously maintained in Italy. Messer Francesco Bandinelli,
for example, was certainly a Cavaliere di Corredo. Yet he took the bath, as we have seen. Of
a truth, the Italians selected those picturesque elements of chivalry which lent themselves
to pageant and parade. The sterner intention of the institution, and the symbolic meaning of
its various ceremonies, were neglected by them.

In the foregoing passages, which serve as a lengthy preamble to Folgore's five sonnets, I have
endeavoured to draw illustrations from the history of Siena, because Folgore represents Sienese
society at the height of mediæval culture. In the first of the series he describes the preparation
made by the aspirant after knighthood. The noble youth is so bent on doing honour to the order
of chivalry, that he raises money by mortgage to furnish forth the banquets and the presents
due upon the occasion of his institution. He has made provision also of equipment for himself
and all his train. It will be noticed that Folgore dwells only on the fair and joyous aspect
of the ceremony. The religious enthusiasm of knighthood has disappeared, and already, in the
first decade of the fourteenth century, we find the spirit of Jehan de Saintrè prevalent in
Italy. The word donzello, derived from the Latin domicellus, I have translated squire, because
the donzel was a youth of gentle birth awaiting knighthood.

  This morn a young squire shall be made a knight;
    hereof he fain would be right worthy found,
    And therefore pledgeth lands and castles round
    To furnish all that fits a man of might.
  Meat, bread and wine he gives to many a wight;
    Capons and pheasants on his board abound,
    Where serving men and pages march around;
    Choice chambers, torches, and wax candle light.
  Barbed steeds, a multitude, are in his thought,
    Mailed men at arms and noble company,
    Spears, pennants, housing cloths, bells richly wrought.
  Musicians following with great barony
    And jesters through the land his state have brought,
    With dames and damsels whereso rideth he.

The subject having thus been introduced, Folgore treats the ceremonies of investiture by an
allegorical method, which is quite consistent with his own preference of images to ideas. Each
of the four following sonnets presents a picture to the mind, admirably fitted for artistic
handling. We may imagine them to ourselves wrought in arras for a sumptuous chamber. The first
treats of the bath, in which, as we have seen already from Sacchetti's note, the aspirant after
knighthood puts aside all vice, and consecrates himself anew. Prodezza, or Prowess, must behold
him nude from head to foot, in order to assure herself that the neophyte bears no blemish;
and this inspection is an allegory of internal wholeness.

  Lo Prowess, who despoileth him straightway,
    And saith: 'Friend, now beseems it thee to strip;
    For I will see men naked, thigh and hip,
    And thou my will must know and eke obey;
  And leave what was thy wont until this day,
    And for new toil, new sweat, thy strength equip;
    This do, and thou shalt join my fellowship,
    If of fair deeds thou tire not nor cry nay.'
  And when she sees his comely body bare,
    Forthwith within her arms she him doth take,
    And saith: 'These limbs thou yieldest to my prayer;
  I do accept thee, and this gift thee make,
    So that thy deeds may shine for ever fair;
    My lips shall never more thy praise forsake.'

After courage, the next virtue of the knightly character is gentleness or modesty, called by
the Italians humility. It is this quality which makes a strong man pleasing to the world, and
wins him favour. Folgore's sonnet enables us to understand the motto of the great Borromeo
family--Humilitas, in Gothic letters underneath the coronet upon their princely palace fronts.

  Humility to him doth gently go,
    And saith: 'I would in no wise weary thee;
    Yet must I cleanse and wash thee thoroughly,
    And I will make thee whiter than the snow.
  Hear what I tell thee in few words, for so
    Fain am I of thy heart to hold the key;
    Now must thou sail henceforward after me;
    And I will guide thee as myself do go.
  But one thing would I have thee straightway leave;
    Well knowest thou mine enemy is pride;
    Let her no more unto thy spirit cleave:
  So leal a friend with thee will I abide
    That favour from all folk thou shalt receive;
    This grace hath he who keepeth on my side.'

The novice has now bathed, approved himself to the searching eyes of Prowess, and been accepted
by Humility. After the bath, it was customary for him to spend a night in vigil; and this among
the Teutons should have taken place in church, alone before the altar. But the Italian poet,
after his custom, gives a suave turn to the severe discipline. His donzel passes the night
in bed, attended by Discretion, or the virtue of reflection. She provides fair entertainment
for the hours of vigil, and leaves him at the morning with good counsel. It is not for nothing
that he seeks knighthood, and it behoves him to be careful of his goings. The last three lines
of the sonnet are the gravest of the series, showing that something of true chivalrous feeling
survived even among the Cavalieri di Corredo of Tuscany.

  Then did Discretion to the squire draw near,
    And drieth him with a fair cloth and clean,
    And straightway putteth him the sheets between,
    Silk, linen, counterpane, and minevere.
  Think now of this! Until the day was clear,
    With songs and music and delight the queen,
    And with new knights, fair fellows well-beseen,
    To make him perfect, gave him goodly cheer.
  Then saith she: 'Rise forthwith, for now 'tis due,
    Thou shouldst be born into the world again;
    Keep well the order thou dost take in view.'
  Unfathomable thoughts with him remain
    Of that great bond he may no more eschew,
    Nor can he say, 'I'll hide me from this chain.'

The vigil is over. The mind of the novice is prepared for his new duties. The morning of his
reception into chivalry has arrived. It is therefore fitting that grave thoughts should be
abandoned; and seeing that not only prowess, humility, and discretion are the virtues of a
knight, but that he should also be blithe and debonair, Gladness comes to raise him from his
bed and equip him for the ceremony of institution.

  Comes Blithesomeness with mirth and merriment,
    All decked in flowers she seemeth a rose-tree;
    Of linen, silk, cloth, fur, now beareth she
    To the new knight a rich habiliment;
  Head-gear and cap and garland flower-besprent,
    So brave they were May-bloom he seemed to be;
    With such a rout, so many and such glee,
    That the floor shook. Then to her work she went;
  And stood him on his feet in hose and shoon;
    And purse and gilded girdle 'neath the fur
    That drapes his goodly limbs, she buckles on;
  Then bids the singers and sweet music stir,
    And showeth him to ladies for a boon
    And all who in that following went with her.

At this point the poem is abruptly broken. The manuscript from which these sonnets are taken
states they are a fragment. Had the remaining twelve been preserved to us, we should probably
have possessed a series of pictures in which the procession to church would have been portrayed,
the investiture with the sword, the accolade, the buckling on of the spurs, and the concluding
sports and banquets. It is very much to be regretted that so interesting, so beautiful, and
so unique a monument of Italian chivalry survives thus mutilated. But students of art have
to arm themselves continually with patience, repressing the sad thoughts engendered in them
by the spectacle of time's unconscious injuries.

It is certain that Folgore would have written at least one sonnet on the quality of courtesy,
which in that age, as we have learned from Matteo Villani, identified itself in the Italian
mind with liberality. This identification marks a certain degradation of the chivalrous ideal,
which is characteristic of Italian manners. One of Folgore's miscellaneous sonnets shows how
sorely he felt the disappearance of this quality from the midst of a society bent daily more
and more upon material aims. It reminds us of the lamentable outcries uttered by the later
poets of the fourteenth century, Sacchetti, Boccaccio, Uberti, and others of less fame, over
the decline of their age.

  Courtesy! Courtesy! Courtesy! I call:
    But from no quarter comes there a reply.
    They who should show her, hide her; wherefore I
    And whoso needs her, ill must us befall.
  Greed with his hook hath ta'en men one and all,
    And murdered every grace that dumb doth lie:
    Whence, if I grieve, I know the reason why;
    From you, great men, to God I make my call:
  For you my mother Courtesy have cast
    So low beneath your feet she there must bleed;
    Your gold remains, but you're not made to last:
  Of Eve and Adam we are all the seed:
    Able to give and spend, you hold wealth fast:
    Ill is the nature that rears such a breed!

Folgore was not only a poet of occasion and compliment, but a political writer, who fully entertained
the bitter feeling of the Guelphs against their Ghibelline opponents.

Two of his sonnets addressed to the Guelphs have been translated by Mr. Rossetti. In order
to complete the list I have made free versions of two others in which he criticised the weakness
of his own friends. The first is addressed, in the insolent impiety of rage, to God:--

  I praise thee not, O God, nor give thee glory,
    Nor yield thee any thanks, nor bow the knee,
    Nor pay thee service; for this irketh me
    More than the souls to stand in purgatory;
  Since thou hast made us Guelphs a jest and story
    Unto the Ghibellines for all to see:
    And if Uguccion claimed tax of thee,
    Thou'dst pay it without interrogatory.
  Ah, well I wot they know thee! and have stolen
    St. Martin from thee, Altopascio,
    St. Michael, and the treasure thou hast lost;
  And thou that rotten rabble so hast swollen
    That pride now counts for tribute; even so
    Thou'st made their heart stone-hard to thine own cost.

About the meaning of some lines in this sonnet I am not clear. But the feeling and the general
drift of it are manifest. The second is a satire on the feebleness and effeminacy of the Pisans.

  Ye are more silky-sleek than ermines are,
    Ye Pisan counts, knights, damozels, and squires,
    Who think by combing out your hair like wires
    To drive the men of Florence from their car.
  Ye make the Ghibellines free near and far,
    Here, there, in cities, castles, huts, and byres,
    Seeing how gallant in your brave attires,
    How bold you look, true paladins of war.
  Stout-hearted are ye as a hare in chase,
    To meet the sails of Genoa on the sea;
    And men of Lucca never saw your face.
  Dogs with a bone for courtesy are ye:
    Could Folgore but gain a special grace,
    He'd have you banded 'gainst all men that be.

Among the sonnets not translated by Mr. Rossetti two by Folgore remain, which may be classified
with the not least considerable contributions to Italian gnomic poetry in an age when literature
easily assumed a didactic tone. The first has for its subject the importance of discernment
and discrimination. It is written on the wisdom of what the ancient Greeks called [Greek: Kairos],
or the right occasion in all human conduct.

  Dear friend, not every herb puts forth a flower;
    Nor every flower that blossoms fruit doth bear;
    Nor hath each spoken word a virtue rare;
    Nor every stone in earth its healing power:
  This thing is good when mellow, that when sour;
    One seems to grieve, within doth rest from care;
    Not every torch is brave that flaunts in air;
    There is what dead doth seem, yet flame doth shower.
  Wherefore it ill behoveth a wise man
    His truss of every grass that grows to bind,
    Or pile his back with every stone he can,
  Or counsel from each word to seek to find,
    Or take his walks abroad with Dick and Dan:
    Not without cause I'm moved to speak my mind.

The second condemns those men of light impulse who, as Dante put it, discoursing on the same
theme, 'subject reason to inclination.'[1]

  What time desire hath o'er the soul such sway
    That reason finds nor place nor puissance here,
    Men oft do laugh at what should claim a tear,
    And over grievous dole are seeming gay.
  He sure would travel far from sense astray
    Who should take frigid ice for fire; and near
    Unto this plight are those who make glad cheer
    For what should rather cause their soul dismay.
  But more at heart might he feel heavy pain
    Who made his reason subject to mere will,
    And followed wandering impulse without rein;
  Seeing no lordship is so rich as still
    One's upright self unswerving to sustain,
    To follow worth, to flee things vain and ill.

The sonnets translated by me in this essay, taken together with those already published by
Mr. Rossetti, put the English reader in possession of all that passes for the work of Folgore
da San Gemignano.

    [1] The line in Dante runs:

         'Che la ragion sommettono al talento.'

    In Folgore's sonnet we read:

         'Chi sommette rason a volontade.'

    On the supposition that Folgore wrote in the second decade
    of the fourteenth century, it is not impossible that he
    may have had knowledge of this line from the fifth canto
    of the Inferno.

Since these words were written, England has lost the poet-painter, to complete whose work upon
the sonnet-writer of mediæval Siena I attempted the translations in this essay. One who has
trodden the same path as Rossetti, at however a noticeable interval, and has attempted to present
in English verse the works of great Italian singers, doing inadequately for Michelangelo and
Campanella what he did supremely well for Dante, may here perhaps be allowed to lay the tribute
of reverent recognition at his tomb.

THOUGHTS IN ITALY ABOUT CHRISTMAS

What is the meaning of our English Christmas? What makes it seem so truly Northern, national,
and homely, that we do not like to keep the feast upon a foreign shore? These questions grew
upon me as I stood one Advent afternoon beneath the Dome of Florence. A priest was thundering
from the pulpit against French scepticism, and exalting the miracle of the Incarnation. Through
the whole dim church blazed altar candles. Crowds of men and women knelt or sat about the transepts,
murmuring their prayers of preparation for the festival. At the door were pedlars selling little
books, in which were printed the offices for Christmas-tide, with stories of S. Felix and S.
Catherine, whose devotion to the infant Christ had wrought them weal, and promises of the remission
of four purgatorial centuries to those who zealously observed the service of the Church at
this most holy time. I knew that the people of Florence were preparing for Christmas in their
own way. But it was not our way. It happened that outside the church the climate seemed as
wintry as our own--snowstorms and ice, and wind and chilling fog, suggesting Northern cold.
But as the palaces of Florence lacked our comfortable firesides, and the greetings of friends
lacked our hearty handshakes and loud good wishes, so there seemed to be a want of the home
feeling in those Christmas services and customs. Again I asked myself, 'What do we mean by
Christmas?'

The same thought pursued me as I drove to Rome: by Siena, still and brown, uplifted, mid her
russet hills and wilderness of rolling plain; by Chiusi, with its sepulchral city of a dead
and unknown people; through the chestnut forests of the Apennines; by Orvieto's rock, Viterbo's
fountains, and the oak-grown solitudes of the Ciminian heights, from which one looks across
the broad lake of Bolsena and the Roman plain. Brilliant sunlight, like that of a day in late
September, shone upon the landscape, and I thought--Can this be Christmas? Are they bringing
mistletoe and holly on the country carts into the towns in far-off England? Is it clear and
frosty there, with the tramp of heels upon the flag, or snowing silently, or foggy with a round
red sun and cries of warning at the corners of the streets?

I reached Rome on Christmas Eve, in time to hear midnight services in the Sistine Chapel and
S. John Lateran, to breathe the dust of decayed shrines, to wonder at doting cardinals begrimed
with snuff, and to resent the open-mouthed bad taste of my countrymen who made a mockery of
these palsy-stricken ceremonies. Nine cardinals going to sleep, nine train-bearers talking
scandal, twenty huge, handsome Switzers in the dress devised by Michelangelo, some ushers,
a choir caged off by gilded railings, the insolence and eagerness of polyglot tourists, plenty
of wax candles dripping on people's heads, and a continual nasal drone proceeding from the
gilded cage, out of which were caught at intervals these words, and these only,--'Sæcula sæculorum,
amen.' Such was the celebrated Sistine service. The chapel blazed with light, and very strange
did Michelangelo's Last Judgment, his Sibyls, and his Prophets, appear upon the roof and wall
above this motley and unmeaning crowd.

Next morning I put on my dress-clothes and white tie, and repaired, with groups of Englishmen
similarly attired, and of Englishwomen in black crape--the regulation costume--to S. Peter's.
It was a glorious and cloudless morning; sunbeams streamed in columns from the southern windows,
falling on the vast space full of soldiers and a mingled mass of every kind of people. Up the
nave stood double files of the Pontifical guard. Monks and nuns mixed with the Swiss cuirassiers
and halberds. Contadini crowded round the sacred images, and especially round the toe of S.
Peter. I saw many mothers lift their swaddled babies up to kiss it. Valets of cardinals, with
the invariable red umbrellas, hung about side chapels and sacristies. Purple-mantled monsignori,
like emperor butterflies, floated down the aisles from sunlight into shadow. Movement, colour,
and the stir of expectation, made the church alive. We showed our dress-clothes to the guard,
were admitted within their ranks, and solemnly walked up toward the dome. There under its broad
canopy stood the altar, glittering with gold and candles. The choir was carpeted and hung with
scarlet. Two magnificent thrones rose ready for the Pope: guards of honour, soldiers, attachés,
and the élite of the residents and visitors in Rome, were scattered in groups picturesquely
varied by ecclesiastics of all orders and degrees. At ten a stirring took place near the great
west door. It opened, and we saw the procession of the Pope and his cardinals. Before him marched
the singers and the blowers of the silver trumpets, making the most liquid melody. Then came
his Cap of Maintenance, and three tiaras; then a company of mitred priests; next the cardinals
in scarlet; and last, aloft beneath a canopy, upon the shoulders of men, and flanked by the
mystic fans, advanced the Pope himself, swaying to and fro like a Lama, or an Aztec king. Still
the trumpets blew most silverly, and still the people knelt; and as he came, we knelt and had
his blessing. Then he took his state and received homage. After this the choir began to sing
a mass of Palestrina's, and the deacons robed the Pope. Marvellous putting on and taking off
of robes and tiaras and mitres ensued, during which there was much bowing and praying and burning
of incense. At last, when he had reached the highest stage of sacrificial sanctity, he proceeded
to the altar, waited on by cardinals and bishops. Having censed it carefully, he took a higher
throne and divested himself of part of his robes. Then the mass went on in earnest, till the
moment of consecration, when it paused, the Pope descended from his throne, passed down the
choir, and reached the altar. Every one knelt; the shrill bell tinkled; the silver trumpets
blew; the air became sick and heavy with incense, so that sun and candle light swooned in an
atmosphere of odorous cloud-wreaths. The whole church trembled, hearing the strange subtle
music vibrate in the dome, and seeing the Pope with his own hands lift Christ's body from the
altar and present it to the people. An old parish priest, pilgrim from some valley of the Apennines,
who knelt beside me, cried and quivered with excess of adoration. The great tombs around, the
sculptured saints and angels, the dome, the volumes of light and incense and unfamiliar melody,
the hierarchy ministrant, the white and central figure of the Pope, the multitude--made up
an overpowering scene. What followed was comparatively tedious. My mind again went back to
England, and I thought of Christmas services beginning in all village churches and all cathedrals
throughout the land--their old familiar hymn, their anthem of Handel, their trite and sleepy
sermons. How different the two feasts are--Christmas in Rome, Christmas in England--Italy and
the North--the spirit of Latin and the spirit of Teutonic Christianity.

What, then, constitutes the essence of our Christmas as different from that of more Southern
nations? In their origin they are the same. The stable of Bethlehem, the star-led kings, the
shepherds, and the angels--all the beautiful story, in fact, which S. Luke alone of the Evangelists
has preserved for us--are what the whole Christian world owes to the religious feeling of the
Hebrews. The first and second chapters of S. Luke are most important in the history of Christian
mythology and art. They are far from containing the whole of what we mean by Christmas; but
the religious poetry which gathers round that season must be sought upon their pages. Angels,
ever since the Exodus, played a first part in the visions of the Hebrew prophets and in the
lives of their heroes. We know not what reminiscences of old Egyptian genii, what strange shadows
of the winged beasts of Persia, flitted through their dreams. In the desert, or under the boundless
sky of Babylon, these shapes became no less distinct than the precise outlines of Oriental
scenery. They incarnated the vivid thoughts and intense longings of the prophets, who gradually
came to give them human forms and titles. We hear of them by name, as servants and attendants
upon God, as guardians of nations, and patrons of great men. To the Hebrew mind the whole unseen
world was full of spirits, active, strong, and swift of flight, of various aspect, and with
power of speech. It is hard to imagine what the first Jewish disciples and the early Greek
and Roman converts thought of these great beings. To us, the hierarchies of Dionysius, the
services of the Church, the poetry of Dante and Milton, and the forms of art, have made them
quite familiar. Northern nations have appropriated the Angels, and invested them with attributes
alien to their Oriental origin. They fly through our pine-forests, and the gloom of cloud or
storm; they ride upon our clanging bells, and gather in swift squadrons among the arches of
Gothic cathedrals; we see them making light in the cavernous depth of woods, where sun or moon
beams rarely pierce, and ministering to the wounded or the weary; they bear aloft the censers
of the mass; they sing in the anthems of choristers, and live in strains of poetry and music;
our churches bear their names; we call our children by their titles; we love them as our guardians,
and the whole unseen world is made a home to us by their imagined presence. All these things
are the growth of time and the work of races whose myth-making imagination is more artistic
than that of the Hebrews. Yet this rich legacy of romance is bound up in the second chapter
of S. Luke; and it is to him we must give thanks when at Christmas-tide we read of the shepherds
and the angels in English words more beautiful than his own Greek.

The angels in the stable of Bethlehem, the kings who came from the far East, and the adoring
shepherds, are the gift of Hebrew legend and of the Greek physician Luke to Christmas. How
these strange and splendid incidents affect modern fancy remains for us to examine; at present
we must ask, What did the Romans give to Christmas? The customs of the Christian religion,
like everything that belongs to the modern world, have nothing pure and simple in their nature.
They are the growth of long ages, and of widely different systems, parts of which have been
fused into one living whole. In this respect they resemble our language, our blood, our literature,
and our modes of thought and feeling. We find Christianity in one sense wholly original; in
another sense composed of old materials; in both senses universal and cosmopolitan. The Roman
element in Christmas is a remarkable instance of this acquisitive power of Christianity. The
celebration of the festival takes place at the same time as that of the Pagan Saturnalia; and
from the old customs of that holiday, Christmas absorbed much that was consistent with the
spirit of the new religion. During the Saturnalia the world enjoyed, in thought at least, a
perfect freedom. Men who had gone to bed as slaves, rose their own masters. From the ergastula
and dismal sunless cages they went forth to ramble in the streets and fields. Liberty of speech
was given them, and they might satirise those vices of their lords to which, on other days,
they had to minister. Rome on this day, by a strange negation of logic, which we might almost
call a prompting of blind conscience, negatived the philosophic dictum that barbarians were
by law of nature slaves, and acknowledged the higher principle of equality. The Saturnalia
stood out from the whole year as a protest in favour of universal brotherhood, and the right
that all men share alike to enjoy life after their own fashion, within the bounds that nature
has assigned them. We do not know how far the Stoic school, which was so strong in Rome, and
had so many points of contact with the Christians, may have connected its own theories of equality
with this old custom of the Saturnalia. But it is possible that the fellowship of human beings,
and the temporary abandonment of class prerogatives, became a part of Christmas through the
habit of the Saturnalia. We are perhaps practising a Roman virtue to this day when at Christmas-time
our hand is liberal, and we think it wrong that the poorest wretch should fail to feel the
pleasure of the day.

Of course Christianity inspired the freedom of the Saturnalia with a higher meaning. The mystery
of the Incarnation, or the deification of human nature, put an end to slavery through all the
year, as well as on this single day. What had been a kind of aimless licence became the most
ennobling principle by which men are exalted to a state of self-respect and mutual reverence.
Still in the Saturnalia was found, ready-made, an easy symbol of unselfish enjoyment. It is,
however, dangerous to push speculations of this kind to the very verge of possibility.

The early Roman Christians probably kept Christmas with no special ceremonies. Christ was as
yet too close to them. He had not become the glorious creature of their fancy, but was partly
an historic being, partly confused in their imagination with reminiscences of Pagan deities.
As the Good Shepherd, and as Orpheus, we find him painted in the Catacombs; and those who thought
of him as God, loved to dwell upon his risen greatness more than on the idyll of his birth.
To them his entry upon earth seemed less a subject of rejoicing than his opening of the heavens;
they suffered, and looked forward to a future happiness; they would not seem to make this world
permanent by sharing its gladness with the Heathens. Theirs, in truth, was a religion of hope
and patience, not of triumphant recollection or of present joyfulness.

The Northern converts of the early Church added more to the peculiar character of our Christmas.
Who can tell what Pagan rites were half sanctified by their association with that season, or
how much of our cheerfulness belonged to Heathen orgies and the banquets of grim warlike gods?
Certainly nothing strikes one more in reading Scandinavian poetry, than the strange mixture
of Pagan and Christian sentiments which it presents. For though the missionaries of the Church
did all they could to wean away the minds of men from their old superstitions; yet, wiser than
their modern followers, they saw that some things might remain untouched, and that even the
great outlines of the Christian faith might be adapted to the habits of the people whom they
studied to convert. Thus, on the one hand, they destroyed the old temples one by one, and called
the idols by the name of devils, and strove to obliterate the songs which sang great deeds
of bloody gods and heroes; while, on the other, they taught the Northern sea-kings that Jesus
was a Prince surrounded by twelve dukes, who conquered all the world. Besides, they left the
days of the week to their old patrons. It is certain that the imagination of the people preserved
more of heathendom than even such missionaries could approve; mixing up the deeds of the Christian
saints with old heroic legends; seeing Balder's beauty in Christ and the strength of Thor in
Samson; attributing magic to S. John; swearing, as of old, bloody oaths in God's name, over
the gilded boar's-head; burning the yule-log, and cutting sacred boughs to grace their new-built
churches.

The songs of choirs and sound of holy bells, and superstitious reverence for the mass, began
to tell upon the people; and soon the echo of their old religion only swelled upon the ear
at intervals, attaching itself to times of more than usual sanctity. Christmas was one of these
times, and the old faith threw around its celebration a fantastic light. Many customs of the
genial Pagan life remained; they seemed harmless when the sense of joy was Christian. The Druid's
mistletoe graced the church porches of England and of France, and no blood lingered on its
berries. Christmas thus became a time of extraordinary mystery. The people loved it as connecting
their old life with the new religion, perhaps unconsciously, though every one might feel that
Christmas was no common Christian feast. On its eve strange wonders happened: the thorn that
sprang at Glastonbury from the sacred crown which Joseph brought with him from Palestine, when
Avalon was still an island, blossomed on that day. The Cornish miners seemed to hear the sound
of singing men arise from submerged churches by the shore, and others said that bells, beneath
the ground where villages had been, chimed yearly on that eve. No evil thing had power, as
Marcellus in 'Hamlet' tells us, and the bird of dawning crowed the whole night through. One
might multiply folklore about the sanctity of Christmas, but enough has been said to show that
round it lingered long the legendary spirit of old Paganism. It is not to Jews, or Greeks,
or Romans only that we owe our ancient Christmas fancies, but also to those half-heathen ancestors
who lovingly looked back to Odin's days, and held the old while they embraced the new.

Let us imagine Christmas Day in a mediæval town of Northern England. The cathedral is only
partly finished. Its nave and transepts are the work of Norman architects, but the choir has
been destroyed in order to be rebuilt by more graceful designers and more skilful hands. The
old city is full of craftsmen, assembled to complete the church. Some have come as a religious
duty, to work off their tale of sins by bodily labour. Some are animated by a love of art--simple
men, who might have rivalled with the Greeks in ages of more cultivation. Others, again, are
well-known carvers, brought for hire from distant towns and countries beyond the sea. But to-day,
and for some days past, the sound of hammer and chisel has been silent in the choir. Monks
have bustled about the nave, dressing it up with holly-boughs and bushes of yew, and preparing
a stage for the sacred play they are going to exhibit on the feast day. Christmas is not like
Corpus Christi, and now the market-place stands inches deep in snow, so that the Miracles must
be enacted beneath a roof instead of in the open air. And what place so appropriate as the
cathedral, where poor people may have warmth and shelter while they see the show? Besides,
the gloomy old church, with its windows darkened by the falling snow, lends itself to candlelight
effects that will enhance the splendour of the scene. Everything is ready. The incense of morning
mass yet lingers round the altar. The voice of the friar who told the people from the pulpit
the story of Christ's birth, has hardly ceased to echo. Time has just been given for a mid-day
dinner, and for the shepherds and farm lads to troop in from the country-side. The monks are
ready at the wooden stage to draw its curtain, and all the nave is full of eager faces. There
you may see the smith and carpenter, the butcher's wife, the country priest, and the grey cowled
friar. Scores of workmen, whose home the cathedral for the time is made, are also here, and
you may know the artists by their thoughtful foreheads and keen eyes. That young monk carved
Madonna and her Son above the southern porch. Beside him stands the master mason, whose strong
arms have hewn gigantic images of prophets and apostles for the pinnacles outside the choir;
and the little man with cunning eyes between the two is he who cuts such quaint hobgoblins
for the gargoyles. He has a vein of satire in him, and his humour overflows into the stone.
Many and many a grim beast and hideous head has he hidden among vine-leaves and trellis-work
upon the porches. Those who know him well are loth to anger him, for fear their sons and sons'
sons should laugh at them for ever caricatured in solid stone.

Hark! there sounds the bell. The curtain is drawn, and the candles blaze brightly round the
wooden stage. What is this first scene? We have God in Heaven, dressed like a Pope with triple
crown, and attended by his court of angels. They sing and toss up censers till he lifts his
hand and speaks. In a long Latin speech he unfolds the order of creation and his will concerning
man. At the end of it up leaps an ugly buffoon, in goatskin, with rams' horns upon his head.
Some children begin to cry; but the older people laugh, for this is the Devil, the clown and
comic character, who talks their common tongue, and has no reverence before the very throne
of Heaven. He asks leave to plague men, and receives it; then, with many a curious caper, he
goes down to Hell, beneath the stage. The angels sing and toss their censers as before, and
the first scene closes to a sound of organs. The next is more conventional, in spite of some
grotesque incidents. It represents the Fall; the monks hurry over it quickly, as a tedious
but necessary prelude to the birth of Christ. That is the true Christmas part of the ceremony,
and it is understood that the best actors and most beautiful dresses are to be reserved for
it. The builders of the choir in particular are interested in the coming scenes, since one
of their number has been chosen, for his handsome face and tenor voice, to sing the angel's
part. He is a young fellow of nineteen, but his beard is not yet grown, and long hair hangs
down upon his shoulders. A chorister of the cathedral, his younger brother, will act the Virgin
Mary. At last the curtain is drawn.

We see a cottage-room, dimly lighted by a lamp, and Mary spinning near her bedside. She sings
a country air, and goes on working, till a rustling noise is heard, more light is thrown upon
the stage, and a glorious creature, in white raiment, with broad golden wings, appears. He
bears a lily, and cries,--'Ave Maria, Gratia Plena!' She does not answer, but stands confused,
with down-dropped eyes and timid mien. Gabriel rises from the ground and comforts her, and
sings aloud his message of glad tidings. Then Mary gathers courage, and, kneeling in her turn,
thanks God; and when the angel and his radiance disappears, she sings the song of the Magnificat
clearly and simply, in the darkened room. Very soft and silver sounds this hymn through the
great church. The women kneel, and children are hushed as by a lullaby. But some of the hinds
and 'prentice lads begin to think it rather dull. They are not sorry when the next scene opens
with a sheepfold and a little camp-fire. Unmistakable bleatings issue from the fold, and five
or six common fellows are sitting round the blazing wood. One might fancy they had stepped
straight from the church floor to the stage, so natural do they look. Besides, they call themselves
by common names--Colin, and Tom Lie-a-bed, and nimble Dick. Many a round laugh wakes echoes
in the church when these shepherds stand up, and hold debate about a stolen sheep. Tom Lie-a-bed
has nothing to remark but that he is very sleepy, and does not want to go in search of it to-night;
Colin cuts jokes, and throws out shrewd suspicions that Dick knows something of the matter;
but Dick is sly, and keeps them off the scent, although a few of his asides reveal to the audience
that he is the real thief. While they are thus talking, silence falls upon the shepherds. Soft
music from the church organ breathes, and they appear to fall asleep.

The stage is now quite dark, and for a few moments the aisles echo only to the dying melody.
When, behold, a ray of light is seen, and splendour grows around the stage from hidden candles,
and in the glory Gabriel appears upon a higher platform made to look like clouds. The shepherds
wake in confusion, striving to shelter their eyes from this unwonted brilliancy. But Gabriel
waves his lily, spreads his great gold wings, and bids good cheer with clarion voice. The shepherds
fall to worship, and suddenly round Gabriel there gathers a choir of angels, and a song of
'Gloria in Excelsis' to the sound of a deep organ is heard far off. From distant aisles it
swells, and seems to come from heaven. Through a long resonant fugue the glory flies, and as
it ceases with complex conclusion, the lights die out, the angels disappear, and Gabriel fades
into the darkness. Still the shepherds kneel, rustically chanting a carol half in Latin, half
in English, which begins 'In dulci Jubilo.' The people know it well, and when the chorus rises
with 'Ubi sunt gaudia?' its wild melody is caught by voices up and down the nave. This scene
makes deep impression upon many hearts; for the beauty of Gabriel is rare, and few who see
him in his angel's dress would know him for the lad who daily carves his lilies and broad water-flags
about the pillars of the choir. To that simple audience he interprets Heaven, and little children
will see him in their dreams. Dark winter nights and awful forests will be trodden by his feet,
made musical by his melodious voice, and parted by the rustling of his wings. The youth himself
may return to-morrow to the workman's blouse and chisel, but his memory lives in many minds
and may form a part of Christmas for the fancy of men as yet unborn.

The next drawing of the curtain shows us the stable of Bethlehem crowned by its star. There
kneels Mary, and Joseph leans upon his staff. The ox and ass are close at hand, and Jesus lies
in jewelled robes on straw within the manger. To right and left bow the shepherds, worshipping
in dumb show, while voices from behind chant a solemn hymn. In the midst of the melody is heard
a flourish of trumpets, and heralds step upon the stage, followed by the three crowned kings.
They have come from the far East, led by the star. The song ceases, while drums and fifes and
trumpets play a stately march. The kings pass by, and do obeisance one by one. Each gives some
costly gift; each doffs his crown and leaves it at the Saviour's feet. Then they retire to
a distance and worship in silence like the shepherds. Again the angel's song is heard, and
while it dies away the curtain closes, and the lights are put out.

The play is over, and evening has come. The people must go from the warm church into the frozen
snow, and crunch their homeward way beneath the moon. But in their minds they carry a sense
of light and music and unearthly loveliness. Not a scene of this day's pageant will be lost.
It grows within them and creates the poetry of Christmas. Nor must we forget the sculptors
who listen to the play. We spoke of them minutely, because these mysteries sank deep into their
souls and found a way into their carvings on the cathedral walls. The monk who made Madonna
by the southern porch, will remember Gabriel, and place him bending low in lordly salutation
by her side. The painted glass of the chapter-house will glow with fiery choirs of angels learned
by heart that night. And who does not know the mocking devils and quaint satyrs that the humorous
sculptor will carve among his fruits and flowers? Some of the misereres of the stalls still
bear portraits of the shepherd thief, and of the ox and ass who blinked so blindly when the
kings, by torchlight, brought their dazzling gifts. Truly these old miracle-plays, and the
carved work of cunning hands that they inspired, are worth to us more than all the delicate
creations of Italian pencils. Our homely Northern churches still retain, for the child who
reads their bosses and their sculptured fronts, more Christmas poetry than we can find in Fra
Angelico's devoutness or the liveliness of Giotto. Not that Southern artists have done nothing
for our Christmas. Cimabue's gigantic angels at Assisi, and the radiant seraphs of Raphael
or of Signorelli, were seen by Milton in his Italian journey. He gazed in Romish churches on
graceful Nativities, into which Angelico and Credi threw their simple souls. How much they
tinged his fancy we cannot say. But what we know of heavenly hierarchies we later men have
learned from Milton; and what he saw he spoke, and what he spoke in sounding verse lives for
us now and sways our reason, and controls our fancy, and makes fine art of high theology.

Thus have I attempted rudely to recall a scene of mediæval Christmas. To understand the domestic
habits of that age is not so easy, though one can fancy how the barons in their halls held
Christmas, with the boar's head and the jester and the great yule-log. On the daïs sat lord
and lady, waited on by knight and squire and page; but down the long hall feasted yeomen and
hinds and men-at-arms. Little remains to us of those days, and we have outworn their jollity.
It is really from the Elizabethan poets that our sense of old-fashioned festivity arises. They
lived at the end of one age and the beginning of another. Though born to inaugurate the new
era, they belonged by right of association and sympathy to the period that was fleeting fast
away. This enabled them to represent the poetry of past and present. Old customs and old states
of feeling, when they are about to perish, pass into the realm of art. For art is like a flower,
which consummates the plant and ends its growth, while it translates its nature into loveliness.
Thus Dante and Lorenzetti and Orcagna enshrined mediæval theology in works of imperishable
beauty, and Shakspere and his fellows made immortal the life and manners that were decaying
in their own time. Men do not reflect upon their mode of living till they are passing from
one state to another, and the consciousness of art implies a beginning of new things. Let one
who wishes to appreciate the ideal of an English Christmas read Shakspere's song, 'When icicles
hang by the wall;' and if he knows some old grey grange, far from the high-road, among pastures,
with a river flowing near, and cawing rooks in elm-trees by the garden-wall, let him place
Dick and Joan and Marian there.

We have heard so much of pensioners, and barons of beef, and yule-logs, and bay, and rosemary,
and holly boughs cut upon the hillside, and crab-apples bobbing in the wassail bowl, and masques
and mummers, and dancers on the rushes, that we need not here describe a Christmas Eve in olden
times. Indeed, this last half of the nineteenth century is weary of the worn-out theme. But
one characteristic of the age of Elizabeth may be mentioned: that is its love of music. Fugued
melodies, sung by voices without instruments, were much in vogue. We call them madrigals, and
their half-merry, half-melancholy music yet recalls the time when England had her gift of art,
when she needed not to borrow of Marenzio and Palestrina, when her Wilbyes and her Morlands
and her Dowlands won the praise of Shakspere and the court. We hear the echo of those songs;
and in some towns at Christmas or the New Year old madrigals still sound in praise of Oriana
and of Phyllis and the country life. What are called 'waits' are but a poor travesty of those
well-sung Elizabethan carols. We turn in our beds half pitying, half angered by harsh voices
that quaver senseless ditties in the fog, or by tuneless fiddles playing popular airs without
propriety or interest.

It is a strange mixture of picturesquely blended elements which the Elizabethan age presents.
We see it afar off like the meeting of a hundred streams that grow into a river. We are sailing
on the flood long after it has shrunk into a single tide, and the banks are dull and tame,
and the all-absorbing ocean is before us. Yet sometimes we hear a murmur of the distant fountains,
and Christmas is a day on which for some the many waters of the age of great Elizabeth sound
clearest.

The age which followed was not poetical. The Puritans restrained festivity and art, and hated
music. Yet from this period stands out the hymn of Milton, written when he was a youth, but
bearing promise of his later muse. At one time, as we read it, we seem to be looking on a picture
by some old Italian artist. But no picture can give Milton's music or make the 'base of heaven's
deep organ blow.' Here he touches new associations, and reveals the realm of poetry which it
remains for later times to traverse. Milton felt the true sentiment of Northern Christmas when
he opened his poem with the 'winter wild,' in defiance of historical probability and what the
French call local colouring. Nothing shows how wholly we people of the North have appropriated
Christmas, and made it a creature of our own imagination, more than this dwelling on winds
and snows and bitter frosts, so alien from the fragrant nights of Palestine. But Milton's hymn
is like a symphony, embracing many thoughts and periods of varying melody. The music of the
seraphim brings to his mind the age of gold, and that suggests the judgment and the redemption
of the world. Satan's kingdom fails, the false gods go forth, Apollo leaves his rocky throne,
and all the dim Phoenician and Egyptian deities, with those that classic fancy fabled, troop
away like ghosts into the darkness. What a swell of stormy sound is in those lines! It recalls
the very voice of Pan, which went abroad upon the waters when Christ died, and all the utterances
of God on earth, feigned in Delphian shrines, or truly spoken on the sacred hills, were mute
for ever.

After Milton came the age which, of all others, is the prosiest in our history. We cannot find
much novelty of interest added to Christmas at this time. But there is one piece of poetry
that somehow or another seems to belong to the reign of Anne and of the Georges--the poetry
of bells. Great civic corporations reigned in those days; churchwardens tyrannised and were
rich; and many a goodly chime of bells they hung in our old church-steeples. Let us go into
the square room of the belfry, where the clock ticks all day, and the long ropes hang dangling
down, with fur upon their hemp for ringers' hands above the socket set for ringers' feet. There
we may read long lists of gilded names, recording mountainous bob-majors, rung a century ago,
with special praise to him who pulled the tenor-bell, year after year, until he died, and left
it to his son. The art of bell-ringing is profound, and requires a long apprenticeship. Even
now, in some old cities, the ringers form a guild and mystery. Suppose it to be Christmas Eve
in the year 1772. It is now a quarter before twelve, and the sexton has unlocked the church-gates
and set the belfry door ajar. Candles are lighted in the room above, and jugs of beer stand
ready for the ringers. Up they bustle one by one, and listen to the tickings of the clock that
tells the passing minutes. At last it gives a click; and now they throw off coat and waistcoat,
strap their girdles tighter round the waist, and each holds his rope in readiness. Twelve o'clock
strikes, and forth across the silent city go the clamorous chimes. The steeple rocks and reels,
and far away the night is startled. Damp turbulent west winds, rushing from the distant sea,
and swirling up the inland valleys, catch the sound, and toss it to and fro, and bear it by
gusts and snatches to watchers far away, upon bleak moorlands and the brows of woody hills.
Is there not something dim and strange in the thought of these eight men meeting, in the heart
of a great city, in the narrow belfry-room, to stir a mighty sound that shall announce to listening
ears miles, miles away, the birth of a new day, and tell to dancers, mourners, students, sleepers,
and perhaps to dying men, that Christ is born?

Let this association suffice for the time. And of our own Christmas so much has been said and
sung by better voices, that we may leave it to the feelings and the memories of those who read
the fireside tales of Dickens, and are happy in their homes. The many elements which I have
endeavoured to recall, mix all of them in the Christmas of the present, partly, no doubt, under
the form of vague and obscure sentiment; partly as time-honoured reminiscences, partly as a
portion of our own life. But there is one phase of poetry which we enjoy more fully than any
previous age. That is music. Music is of all the arts the youngest, and of all can free herself
most readily from symbols. A fine piece of music moves before us like a living passion, which
needs no form or colour, no interpreting associations, to convey its strong but indistinct
significance. Each man there finds his soul revealed to him, and enabled to assume a cast of
feeling in obedience to the changeful sound. In this manner all our Christmas thoughts and
emotions have been gathered up for us by Handel in his drama of the 'Messiah.' To Englishmen
it is almost as well known and necessary as the Bible. But only one who has heard its pastoral
episode performed year after year from childhood in the hushed cathedral, where pendent lamps
or sconces make the gloom of aisle and choir and airy column half intelligible, can invest
this music with long associations of accumulated awe. To his mind it brings a scene at midnight
of hills clear in the starlight of the East, with white flocks scattered on the down. The breath
of winds that come and go, the bleating of the sheep, with now and then a tinkling bell, and
now and then the voice of an awakened shepherd, is all that breaks the deep repose. Overhead
shimmer the bright stars, and low to west lies the moon, not pale and sickly (he dreams) as
in our North, but golden, full, and bathing distant towers and tall aërial palms with floods
of light. Such is a child's vision, begotten by the music of the symphony; and when he wakes
from trance at its low silver close, the dark cathedral seems glowing with a thousand angel
faces, and all the air is tremulous with angel wings. Then follow the solitary treble voice
and the swift chorus.

SIENA

After leaving the valley of the Arno at Empoli, the railway enters a country which rises into
earthy hills of no great height, and spreads out at intervals into broad tracts of cultivated
lowland. Geologically speaking, this portion of Tuscany consists of loam and sandy deposits,
forming the basin between two mountain-ranges--the Apennines and the chalk hills of the western
coast of Central Italy. Seen from the eminence of some old Tuscan turret, this champaign country
has a stern and arid aspect. The earth is grey and dusty, the forms of hill and valley are
austere and monotonous; even the vegetation seems to sympathise with the uninteresting soil
from which it springs. A few spare olives cast their shadows on the lower slopes; here and
there a copse of oakwood and acacia marks the course of some small rivulet; rye-fields, grey
beneath the wind, clothe the hillsides with scanty verdure. Every knoll is crowned with a village--brown
roofs and white house-fronts clustered together on the edge of cliffs, and rising into the
campanile or antique tower, which tells so many stories of bygone wars and decayed civilisations.

Beneath these villages stand groups of stone pines clearly visible upon the naked country,
cypresses like spires beside the square white walls of convent or of villa, patches of dark
foliage, showing where the ilex and the laurel and the myrtle hide thick tangles of rose-trees
and jessamines in ancient gardens. Nothing can exceed the barren aspect of this country in
midwinter: it resembles an exaggerated Sussex, without verdure to relieve the rolling lines
of down, and hill, and valley; beautiful yet, by reason of its frequent villages and lucid
air and infinitely subtle curves of mountain-ridges. But when spring comes, a light and beauty
break upon this gloomy soil; the whole is covered with a delicate green veil of rising crops
and fresh foliage, and the immense distances which may be seen from every height are blue with
cloud-shadows, or rosy in the light of sunset.

Of all the towns of Lower Tuscany, none is more celebrated than Siena. It stands in the very
centre of the district which I have attempted to describe, crowning one of its most considerable
heights, and commanding one of its most extensive plains. As a city it is a typical representative
of those numerous Italian towns, whose origin is buried in remote antiquity, which have formed
the seat of three civilisations, and which still maintain a vigorous vitality upon their ancient
soil. Its site is Etruscan, its name is Roman, but the town itself owes all its interest and
beauty to the artists and the statesmen and the warriors of the middle ages. A single glance
at Siena from one of the slopes on the northern side, will show how truly mediæval is its character.
A city wall follows the outline of the hill, from which the towers of the cathedral and the
palace, with other cupolas and red-brick campanili, spring; while cypresses and olive-gardens
stretch downwards to the plain. There is not a single Palladian façade or Renaissance portico
to interrupt the unity of the effect. Over all, in the distance, rises Monte Amiata melting
imperceptibly into sky and plain.

The three most striking objects of interest in Siena maintain the character of mediæval individuality
by which the town is marked. They are the public palace, the cathedral, and the house of S.
Catherine. The civil life, the arts, and the religious tendencies of Italy during the ascendency
of mediæval ideas, are strongly set before us here. High above every other building in the
town soars the straight brick tower of the Palazzo Pubblico, the house of the republic, the
hearth of civil life within the State. It guards an irregular Gothic building in which the
old government of Siena used to be assembled, but which has now for a long time been converted
into prisons, courts of law, and showrooms. Let us enter one chamber of the Palazzo--the Sala
della Pace, where Ambrogio Lorenzetti, the greatest, perhaps, of Sienese painters, represented
the evils of lawlessness and tyranny, and the benefits of peace and justice, in three noble
allegories. They were executed early in the fourteenth century, in the age of allegories and
symbolism, when poets and painters strove to personify in human shape all thoughts and sentiments.
The first great fresco represents Peace--the peace of the Republic of Siena. Ambrogio has painted
the twenty-four councillors who formed the Government, standing beneath the thrones of Concord,
Justice, and Wisdom. From these controlling powers they stretch in a long double line to a
seated figure, gigantic in size, and robed with the ensigns of baronial sovereignty. This figure
is the State and Majesty of Siena.[1] Around him sit Peace, Fortitude, and Prudence, Temperance,
Magnanimity, and Justice, inalienable assessors of a powerful and righteous lord. Faith, Hope,
and Charity, the Christian virtues, float like angels in the air above. Armed horsemen guard
his throne, and captives show that he has laid his enemy beneath his feet. Thus the mediæval
artist expressed, by painting, his theory of government. The rulers of the State are subordinate
to the State itself; they stand between the State and the great animating principles of wisdom,
justice, and concord, incarnating the one, and receiving inspiration from the others. The pagan
qualities of prudence, magnanimity, and courage give stability and greatness to good government,
while the spirit of Christianity must harmonise and rule the whole. Arms, too, are needful
to maintain by force what right and law demand, and victory in a just quarrel proclaims the
power and vigour of the commonwealth. On another wall Ambrogio has depicted the prosperous
city of Siena, girt by battlements and moat, with tower and barbican and drawbridge, to insure
its peace. Through the gates stream country-people, bringing the produce of their farms into
the town. The streets are crowded with men and women intent on business or pleasure; craftsmen
at their trade, merchants with laden mules, a hawking party, hunters scouring the plain, girls
dancing, and children playing in the open square. A school-master watching his class, together
with the sculptured figures of Geometry, Astronomy, and Philosophy, remind us that education
and science flourish under the dominion of well-balanced laws. The third fresco exhibits the
reverse of this fair spectacle. Here Tyranny presides over a scene of anarchy and wrong. He
is a hideous monster, compounded of all the bestial attributes which indicate force, treason,
lechery, and fear. Avarice and Fraud and Cruelty and War and Fury sit around him. At his feet
lies Justice, and above are the effigies of Nero, Caracalla, and like monsters of ill-regulated
power. Not far from the castle of Tyranny we see the same town as in the other fresco; but
its streets are filled with scenes of quarrel, theft, and bloodshed. Nor are these allegories
merely fanciful. In the middle ages the same city might more than once during one lifetime
present in the vivid colours of reality the two contrasted pictures.[2]

    [1] It is probable that the firm Ghibelline sympathies of
    the Sienese people for the Empire were allegorised in this
    figure; so that the fresco represented by form and colour
    what Dante had expressed in his treatise 'De Monarchiâ.'
    Among the virtues who attend him, Peace distinguishes
    herself by rare and very remarkable beauty. She is dressed
    in white and crowned with olive; the folds of her drapery,
    clinging to the delicately modelled limbs beneath,
    irresistibly suggest a classic statue. So again does the
    monumental pose of her dignified, reclining, and yet
    languid figure. It seems not unreasonable to believe that
    Lorenzetti copied Peace from the antique Venus which
    belonged to the Sienese, and which in a fit of
    superstitious malice they subsequently destroyed and
    buried in Florentine soil.

    [2] Siena, of all Italian cities, was most subject to
    revolutions. Comines describes it as a city which 'se
    gouverne plus follement que ville d'Italie.' Varchi calls
    it 'un guazzabuglio ed una confusione di repubbliche
    piuttosto che bene ordinata e instituta repubblica.' See
    my 'Age of the Despots' (Renaissance in Italy, Part I.),
    pp. 141, 554, for some account of the Sienese
    constitution, and of the feuds and reconciliations of the
    burghers.

Quitting the Palazzo, and threading narrow streets, paved with brick and overshadowed with
huge empty palaces, we reach the highest of the three hills on which Siena stands, and see
before us the Duomo. This church is the most purely Gothic of all Italian cathedrals designed
by national architects. Together with that of Orvieto, it stands to show what the unassisted
genius of the Italians could produce, when under the empire of mediæval Christianity and before
the advent of the neopagan spirit. It is built wholly of marble, and overlaid, inside and out,
with florid ornaments of exquisite beauty. There are no flying buttresses, no pinnacles, no
deep and fretted doorways, such as form the charm of French and English architecture; but instead
of this, the lines of parti-coloured marbles, the scrolls and wreaths of foliage, the mosaics
and the frescoes which meet the eye in every direction, satisfy our sense of variety, producing
most agreeable combinations of blending hues and harmoniously connected forms. The chief fault
which offends against our Northern taste is the predominance of horizontal lines, both in the
construction of the façade, and also in the internal decoration. This single fact sufficiently
proves that the Italians had never seized the true idea of Gothic or aspiring architecture.
But, allowing for this original defect, we feel that the Cathedral of Siena combines solemnity
and splendour to a degree almost unrivalled. Its dome is another point in which the instinct
of Italian architects has led them to adhere to the genius of their ancestral art rather than
to follow the principles of Gothic design. The dome is Etruscan and Roman, native to the soil,
and only by a kind of violence adapted to the character of pointed architecture. Yet the builders
of Siena have shown what a glorious element of beauty might have been added to our Northern
cathedrals, had the idea of infinity which our ancestors expressed by long continuous lines,
by complexities of interwoven aisles, and by multitudinous aspiring pinnacles, been carried
out into vast spaces of aërial cupolas, completing and embracing and covering the whole like
heaven. The Duomo, as it now stands, forms only part of a vast design. On entering we are amazed
to hear that this church, which looks so large, from the beauty of its proportions, the intricacy
of its ornaments, and the interlacing of its columns, is but the transept of the intended building
lengthened a little, and surmounted by a cupola and campanile.[1] Yet such is the fact. Soon
after its commencement a plague swept over Italy, nearly depopulated Siena, and reduced the
town to penury for want of men. The cathedral, which, had it been accomplished, would have
surpassed all Gothic churches south of the Alps, remained a ruin. A fragment of the nave still
stands, enabling us to judge of its extent. The eastern wall joins what was to have been the
transept, measuring the mighty space which would have been enclosed by marble vaults and columns
delicately wrought. The sculpture on the eastern door shows with what magnificence the Sienese
designed to ornament this portion of their temple; while the southern façade rears itself aloft
above the town, like those high arches which testify to the past splendour of Glastonbury Abbey;
but the sun streams through the broken windows, and the walls are encumbered with hovels and
stables and the refuse of surrounding streets.

    [1] The present church was begun about 1229. In 1321 the
    burghers fancied it was too small for the fame and
    splendour of their city. So they decreed a new ecclesia
    pulcra, magna, et magnifica, for which the older but as
    yet unfinished building was to be the transept.

One most remarkable feature of the internal decoration is a line of heads of the Popes carried
all round the church above the lower arches. Larger than life, white solemn faces they lean,
each from his separate niche, crowned with the triple tiara, and labelled with the name he
bore. Their accumulated majesty brings the whole past history of the Church into the presence
of its living members. A bishop walking up the nave of Siena must feel as a Roman felt among
the waxen images of ancestors renowned in council or in war. Of course these portraits are
imaginary for the most part; but the artists have contrived to vary their features and expression
with great skill.

Not less peculiar to Siena is the pavement of the cathedral. It is inlaid with a kind of tarsia
work in stone, setting forth a variety of pictures in simple but eminently effective mosaic.
Some of these compositions are as old as the cathedral; others are the work of Beccafumi and
his scholars. They represent, in the liberal spirit of mediæval Christianity, the history of
the Church before the Incarnation. Hermes Trismegistus and the Sibyls meet us at the doorway:
in the body of the church we find the mighty deeds of the old Jewish heroes--of Moses and Samson
and Joshua and Judith. Independently of the artistic beauty of the designs, of the skill with
which men and horses are drawn in the most difficult attitudes, of the dignity of some single
figures, and of the vigour and simplicity of the larger compositions, a special interest attaches
to this pavement in connection with the twelfth canto of the 'Purgatorio.' Dante cannot have
trodden these stones and meditated upon their sculptured histories. Yet when we read how he
journeyed through the plain of Purgatory with eyes intent upon its storied floor, how 'morti
i morti, e i vivi parean vivi,' how he saw 'Nimrod at the foot of his great work, confounded,
gazing at the people who were proud with him,' we are irresistibly led to think of the Divine
comedy. The strong and simple outlines of the pavement correspond to the few words of the poet.
Bending over these pictures and trying to learn their lesson, with the thought of Dante in
our mind, the tones of an organ, singularly sweet and mellow, fall upon our ears, and we remember
how he heard Te Deum sung within the gateway of repentance.

Continuing our walk, we descend the hill on which the Duomo stands, and reach a valley lying
between the ancient city of Siena and a western eminence crowned by the church of San Domenico.
In this depression there has existed from old time a kind of suburb or separate district of
the poorer people known by the name of the Contrada d' Oca. To the Sienese it has especial
interest, for here is the birthplace of S. Catherine, the very house in which she lived, her
father's workshop, and the chapel which has been erected in commemoration of her saintly life.
Over the doorway is written in letters of gold 'Sponsa Christi Katherinæ domus.' Inside they
show the room she occupied, and the stone on which she placed her head to sleep; they keep
her veil and staff and lantern and enamelled vinaigrette, the bag in which her alms were placed,
the sackcloth that she wore beneath her dress, the crucifix from which she took the wounds
of Christ. It is impossible to conceive, even after the lapse of several centuries, that any
of these relics are fictitious. Every particular of her life was remembered and recorded with
scrupulous attention by devoted followers. Her fame was universal throughout Italy before her
death; and the house from which she went forth to preach and heal the sick and comfort plague-stricken
wretches whom kith and kin had left alone to die, was known and well beloved by all her citizens.
From the moment of her death it became, and has continued to be, the object of superstitious
veneration to thousands. From the little loggia which runs along one portion of its exterior
may be seen the campanile and the dome of the cathedral; on the other side rises the huge brick
church of San Domenico, in which she spent the long ecstatic hours that won for her the title
of Christ's spouse. In a chapel attached to the church she watched and prayed, fasting and
wrestling with the fiends of a disordered fancy. There Christ appeared to her and gave her
His own heart, there He administered to her the sacrament with His own hands, there she assumed
the robe of poverty, and gave her Lord the silver cross and took from Him the crown of thorns.

To some of us these legends may appear the flimsiest web of fiction: to others they may seem
quite explicable by the laws of semi-morbid psychology; but to Catherine herself, her biographers,
and her contemporaries, they were not so. The enthusiastic saint and reverent people believed
firmly in these things; and, after the lapse of five centuries, her votaries still kiss the
floor and steps on which she trod, still say, 'This was the wall on which she leant when Christ
appeared; this was the corner where she clothed Him, naked and shivering like a beggar-boy;
here He sustained her with angels' food.'

S. Catherine was one of twenty-five children born in wedlock to Jacopo and Lapa Benincasa,
citizens of Siena. Her father exercised the trade of dyer and fuller. In the year of her birth,
1347, Siena reached the climax of its power and splendour. It was then that the plague of Boccaccio
began to rage, which swept off 80,000 citizens, and interrupted the building of the great Duomo.
In the midst of so large a family, and during these troubled times, Catherine grew almost unnoticed;
but it was not long before she manifested her peculiar disposition. At six years old she already
saw visions and longed for a monastic life: about the same time she used to collect her childish
companions together and preach to them. As she grew, her wishes became stronger; she refused
the proposals which her parents made that she should marry, and so vexed them by her obstinacy
that they imposed on her the most servile duties in their household. These she patiently fulfilled,
pursuing at the same time her own vocation with unwearied ardour. She scarcely slept at all,
and ate no food but vegetables and a little bread, scourged herself, wore sackcloth, and became
emaciated, weak, and half delirious. At length the firmness of her character and the force
of her hallucinations won the day. Her parents consented to her assuming the Dominican robe,
and at the age of thirteen she entered the monastic life. From this moment till her death we
see in her the ecstatic, the philanthropist, and the politician combined to a remarkable degree.
For three whole years she never left her cell except to go to church, maintaining an almost
unbroken silence. Yet when she returned to the world, convinced at last of having won by prayer
and pain the favour of her Lord, it was to preach to infuriated mobs, to toil among men dying
of the plague, to execute diplomatic negotiations, to harangue the republic of Florence, to
correspond with queens, and to interpose between kings and popes. In the midst of this varied
and distracting career she continued to see visions and to fast and scourge herself. The domestic
virtues and the personal wants and wishes of a woman were annihilated in her: she lived for
the Church, for the poor, and for Christ, whom she imagined to be constantly supporting her.
At length she died, worn out by inward conflicts, by the tension of religious ecstasy, by want
of food and sleep, and by the excitement of political life. To follow her in her public career
is not my purpose. It is well known how, by the power of her eloquence and the ardour of her
piety, she succeeded as a mediator between Florence and her native city, and between Florence
and the Pope; that she travelled to Avignon, and there induced Gregory XI. to put an end to
the Babylonian captivity of the Church by returning to Rome; that she narrowly escaped political
martyrdom during one of her embassies from Gregory to the Florentine republic; that she preached
a crusade against the Turks; that her last days were clouded with sorrow for the schism which
then rent the Papacy; and that she aided by her dying words to keep Pope Urban on the Papal
throne. When we consider her private and spiritual life more narrowly, it may well move our
amazement to think that the intricate politics of Central Italy, the counsels of licentious
princes and ambitious Popes, were in any measure guided and controlled by such a woman. Alone,
and aided by nothing but a reputation for sanctity, she dared to tell the greatest men in Europe
of their faults; she wrote in words of well-assured command, and they, demoralised, worldly,
sceptical, or indifferent as they might be, were yet so bound by superstition that they could
not treat with scorn the voice of an enthusiastic girl.

Absolute disinterestedness, the belief in her own spiritual mission, natural genius, and that
vast power which then belonged to all energetic members of the monastic orders, enabled her
to play this part. She had no advantages to begin with. The daughter of a tradesman overwhelmed
with an almost fabulously numerous progeny, Catherine grew up uneducated. When her genius had
attained maturity, she could not even read or write. Her biographer asserts that she learned
to do so by a miracle. Anyhow, writing became a most potent instrument in her hands; and we
possess several volumes of her epistles, as well as a treatise of mystical theology. To conquer
self-love as the root of all evil, and to live wholly for others, was the cardinal axiom of
her morality. She pressed this principle to its most rigorous conclusions in practice; never
resting day or night from some kind of service, and winning by her unselfish love the enthusiastic
admiration of the people. In the same spirit of exalted self-annihilation, she longed for martyrdom,
and courted death. There was not the smallest personal tie or afterthought of interest to restrain
her in the course of action which she had marked out. Her personal influence seems to have
been immense. When she began her career of public peacemaker and preacher in Siena, Raymond,
her biographer, says that whole families devoted to vendetta were reconciled, and that civil
strifes were quelled by her letters and addresses. He had seen more than a thousand people
flock to hear her speak; the confessionals crowded with penitents, smitten by the force of
her appeals; and multitudes, unable to catch the words which fell from her lips, sustained
and animated by the light of holiness which beamed from her inspired countenance.[1] She was
not beautiful, but her face so shone with love, and her eloquence was so pathetic in its tenderness,
that none could hear or look on her without emotion. Her writings contain abundant proofs of
this peculiar suavity. They are too sweet and unctuous in style to suit our modern taste. When
dwelling on the mystic love of Christ she cries, 'O blood! O fire! O ineffable love!' When
interceding before the Pope, she prays for 'Pace, pace, pace, babbo mio dolce; pace, e non
più guerra.' Yet clear and simple thoughts, profound convictions, and stern moral teaching
underlie her ecstatic exclamations. One prayer which she wrote, and which the people of Siena
still use, expresses the prevailing spirit of her creed: 'O Spirito Santo, o Deità eterna Cristo
Amore! vieni nel mio cuore; per la tua potenza trailo a Te, mio Dio, e concedemi carità con
timore. Liberami, o Amore ineffabile, da ogni mal pensiero; riscaldami ed infiammami del tuo
dolcissimo amore, sicchè ogni pena mi sembri leggiera. Santo mio Padre e dolce mio Signore,
ora aiutami in ogni mio ministero. Cristo amore. Cristo amore.' The reiteration of the word
'love' is most significant. It was the key-note of her whole theology, the mainspring of her
life. In no merely figurative sense did she regard herself as the spouse of Christ, but dwelt
upon the bliss, beyond all mortal happiness, which she enjoyed in supersensual communion with
her Lord. It is easy to understand how such ideas might be, and have been, corrupted, when
impressed on natures no less susceptible, but weaker and less gifted than S. Catherine's.

    [1] The part played in Italy by preachers of repentance
    and peace is among the most characteristic features of
    Italian history. On this subject see the Appendix to my
    'Age of the Despots,' Renaissance in Italy, Part I.

One incident related by Catherine in a letter to Raymond, her confessor and biographer, exhibits
the peculiar character of her influence in the most striking light. Nicola Tuldo, a citizen
of Perugia, had been condemned to death for treason in the flower of his age. So terribly did
the man rebel against his sentence, that he cursed God, and refused the consolations of religion.
Priests visited him in vain; his heart was shut and sealed by the despair of leaving life in
all the vigour of its prime. Then Catherine came and spoke to him: 'whence,' she says, 'he
received such comfort that he confessed, and made me promise, by the love of God, to stand
at the block beside him on the day of his execution.' By a few words, by the tenderness of
her manner, and by the charm which women have, she had already touched the heart no priest
could soften, and no threat of death or judgment terrify into contrition. Nor was this strange.
In our own days we have seen men open the secrets of their hearts to women, after repelling
the advances of less touching sympathy. Youths, cold and cynical enough among their brethren,
have stood subdued like little children before her who spoke to them of love and faith and
penitence and hope. The world has not lost its ladies of the race of S. Catherine, beautiful
and pure and holy, who have suffered and sought peace with tears, and who have been appointed
ministers of mercy for the worst and hardest of their fellow-men. Such saints possess an efficacy
even in the imposition of their hands; many a devotee, like Tuldo, would more willingly greet
death if his S. Catherine were by to smile and lay her hands upon his head, and cry, 'Go forth,
my servant, and fear not!' The chivalrous admiration for women mixes with religious awe to
form the reverence which these saints inspire. Human and heavenly love, chaste and ecstatic,
constitute the secret of their power. Catherine then subdued the spirit of Tuldo and led him
to the altar, where he received the communion for the first time in his life. His only remaining
fear was that he might not have strength to face death bravely. Therefore he prayed Catherine,
'Stay with me, do not leave me; so it shall be well with me, and I shall die contented;' 'and,'
says the saint, 'he laid his head in the prison on my breast, and I said, "Comfort thee, my
brother, the block shall soon become thy marriage altar, the blood of Christ shall bathe thy
sins away, and I will stand beside thee."' When the hour came, she went and waited for him
by the scaffold, meditating on Madonna and Catherine the saint of Alexandria. She laid her
own neck on the block, and tried to picture to herself the pains and ecstasies of martyrdom.
In her deep thought, time and place became annihilated; she forgot the eager crowd, and only
prayed for Tuldo's soul and for herself. At length he came, walking 'like a gentle lamb,' and
Catherine received him with the salutation of 'sweet brother.' She placed his head upon the
block, and laid her hands upon him, and told him of the Lamb of God. The last words he uttered
were the names of Jesus and of Catherine. Then the axe fell, and Catherine beheld his soul
borne by angels into the regions of eternal love. When she recovered from her trance, she held
his head within her hands; her dress was saturated with his blood, which she could scarcely
bear to wash away, so deeply did she triumph in the death of him whom she had saved. The words
of S. Catherine herself deserve to be read. The simplicity, freedom from self-consciousness,
and fervent faith in the reality of all she did and said and saw, which they exhibit, convince
us of her entire sincerity.

The supernatural element in the life of S. Catherine may be explained partly by the mythologising
adoration of the people ready to find a miracle in every act of her they worshipped--partly
by her own temperament and modes of life, which inclined her to ecstasy and fostered the faculty
of seeing visions--partly by a pious misconception of the words of Christ and Bible phraseology.

To the first kind belong the wonders which are related of her early years, the story of the
candle which burnt her veil without injuring her person, and the miracles performed by her
body after death. Many childish incidents were treasured up which, had her life proved different,
would have been forgotten, or have found their proper place among the catalogue of common things.
Thus on one occasion, after hearing of the hermits of the Thebaïd, she took it into her head
to retire into the wilderness, and chose for her dwelling one of the caverns in the sandstone
rock which abound in Siena near the quarter where her father lived. We merely see in this event
a sign of her monastic disposition, and a more than usual aptitude for realising the ideas
presented to her mind. But the old biographers relate how one celestial vision urged the childish
hermit to forsake the world, and another bade her return to the duties of her home.

To the second kind we may refer the frequent communings with Christ and with the fathers of
the Church, together with the other visions to which she frequently laid claim: nor must we
omit the stigmata which she believed she had received from Christ. Catherine was constitutionally
inclined to hallucinations. At the age of six, before it was probable that a child should have
laid claim to spiritual gifts which she did not possess, she burst into loud weeping because
her little brother rudely distracted her attention from the brilliant forms of saints and angels
which she traced among the clouds. Almost all children of a vivid imagination are apt to transfer
the objects of their fancy to the world without them. Goethe walked for hours in his enchanted
gardens as a boy, and Alfieri tells us how he saw a company of angels in the choristers at
Asti. Nor did S. Catherine omit any means of cultivating this faculty, and of preventing her
splendid visions from fading away, as they almost always do, beneath the discipline of intellectual
education and among the distractions of daily life. Believing simply in their heavenly origin,
and receiving no secular training whatsoever, she walked surrounded by a spiritual world, environed,
as her legend says, by angels. Her habits were calculated to foster this disposition: it is
related that she took but little sleep, scarcely more than two hours at night, and that too
on the bare ground; she ate nothing but vegetables and the sacred wafer of the host, entirely
abjuring the use of wine and meat. This diet, combined with frequent fasts and severe ascetic
discipline, depressed her physical forces, and her nervous system was thrown into a state of
the highest exaltation. Thoughts became things, and ideas were projected from her vivid fancy
upon the empty air around her. It was therefore no wonder that, after spending long hours in
vigils and meditating always on the thought of Christ, she should have seemed to take the sacrament
from His hands, to pace the chapel in communion with Him, to meet Him in the form of priest
and beggar, to hear Him speaking to her as a friend. Once when the anguish of sin had plagued
her with disturbing dreams, Christ came and gave her His own heart in exchange for hers. When
lost in admiration before the cross at Pisa, she saw His five wounds stream with blood--five
crimson rays smote her, passed into her soul, and left their marks upon her hands and feet
and side. The light of Christ's glory shone round about her, she partook of His martyrdom,
and awaking from her trance she cried to Raymond, 'Behold! I bear in my body the marks of the
Lord Jesus!'

This miracle had happened to S. Francis. It was regarded as the sign of fellowship with Christ,
of worthiness to drink His cup, and to be baptised with His baptism. We find the same idea
at least in the old Latin hymns:

  Fac me plagis vulnerari--
  Cruce hac inebriari--
  Fac ut portem Christi mortem,
  Passionis fac consortem,
  Et plagas recolere.

These are words from the 'Stabat Mater;' nor did S. Francis and S. Catherine do more than carry
into the vividness of actual hallucination what had been the poetic rapture of many less ecstatic,
but not less ardent, souls. They desired to be literally 'crucified with Christ;' they were
not satisfied with metaphor or sentiment, and it seemed to them that their Lord had really
vouchsafed to them the yearning of their heart. We need not here raise the question whether
the stigmata had ever been actually self-inflicted by delirious saint or hermit: it was not
pretended that the wounds of S. Catherine were visible during her lifetime. After her death
the faithful thought that they had seen them on her corpse, and they actually appeared in the
relics of her hands and feet. The pious fraud, if fraud there must have been, should be ascribed,
not to the saint herself, but to devotees and relic-mongers.[1] The order of S. Dominic would
not be behind that of S. Francis. If the latter boasted of their stigmata, the former would
be ready to perforate the hand or foot of their dead saint. Thus the ecstasies of genius or
devotion are brought to earth, and rendered vulgar by mistaken piety and the rivalry of sects.
The people put the most material construction on all tropes and metaphors: above the door of
S. Catherine's chapel at Siena, for example, it is written--

  Hæc tenet ara caput Catharinæ; corda requiris?
    Hæc imo Christus pectore clausa tenet.

The frequent conversations which she held with S. Dominic and other patrons of the Church,
and her supernatural marriage, must be referred to the same category. Strong faith, and constant
familiarity with one order of ideas, joined with a creative power of fancy, and fostered by
physical debility, produced these miraculous colloquies. Early in her career, her injured constitution,
resenting the violence with which it had been forced to serve the ardours of her piety, troubled
her with foul phantoms, haunting images of sin and seductive whisperings, which clearly revealed
a morbid condition of the nervous system. She was on the verge of insanity. The reality of
her inspiration and her genius are proved by the force with which her human sympathies, and
moral dignity, and intellectual vigour triumphed over these diseased hallucinations of the
cloister, and converted them into the instruments for effecting patriotic and philanthropic
designs. There was nothing savouring of mean pretension or imposture in her claim to supernatural
enlightenment. Whatever we may think of the wisdom of her public policy with regard to the
Crusades and to the Papal Sovereignty, it is impossible to deny that a holy and high object
possessed her from the earliest to the latest of her life--that she lived for ideas greater
than self-aggrandisement or the saving of her soul, for the greatest, perhaps, which her age
presented to an earnest Catholic.

    [1] It is not impossible that the stigmata may have been
    naturally produced in the person of S. Francis or S.
    Catherine. There are cases on record in which grave
    nervous disturbances have resulted in such modifications
    of the flesh as may have left the traces of wounds in
    scars and blisters.

The abuses to which the indulgence of temperaments like that of S. Catherine must in many cases
have given rise, are obvious. Hysterical women and half-witted men, without possessing her
abilities and understanding her objects, beheld unmeaning visions, and dreamed childish dreams.
Others won the reputation of sanctity by obstinate neglect of all the duties of life and of
all the decencies of personal cleanliness. Every little town in Italy could show its saints
like the Santa Fina of whom San Gemignano boasts--a girl who lay for seven years on a back-board
till her mortified flesh clung to the wood; or the San Bartolo, who, for hideous leprosy, received
the title of the Job of Tuscany. Children were encouraged in blasphemous pretensions to the
special power of Heaven, and the nerves of weak women were shaken by revelations in which they
only half believed. We have ample evidence to prove how the trade of miracles is still carried
on, and how in the France of our days, when intellectual vigour has been separated from old
forms of faith, such vision-mongering undermines morality, encourages ignorance, and saps the
force of individuals. But S. Catherine must not be confounded with those sickly shams and make-believes.
Her enthusiasms were real; they were proper to her age; they inspired her with unrivalled self-devotion
and unwearied energy; they connected her with the political and social movements of her country.

Many of the supernatural events in S. Catherine's life were founded on a too literal acceptation
of biblical metaphors. The Canticles, perhaps, inspired her with the belief in a mystical marriage.
An enigmatical sentence of S. Paul's suggested the stigmata. When the saint bestowed her garment
upon Christ in the form of a beggar and gave Him the silver cross of her rosary, she was but
realising His own words: 'Inasmuch as ye shall do it unto the least of these little ones, ye
shall do it unto Me.' Charity, according to her conception, consisted in giving to Christ.
He had first taught this duty; He would make it the test of all duty at the last day. Catherine
was charitable for the love of Christ. She thought less of the beggar than of her Lord. How
could she do otherwise than see the aureole about His forehead, and hear the voice of Him who
had declared, 'Behold, I am with you, even to the end of the world.' Those were times of childlike
simplicity when the eye of love was still unclouded, when men could see beyond the phantoms
of this world, and stripping off the accidents of matter, gaze upon the spiritual and eternal
truths that lie beneath. Heaven lay around them in that infancy of faith; nor did they greatly
differ from the saints and founders of the Church--from Paul, who saw the vision of the Lord,
or Magdalen, who cried, 'He is risen!' An age accustomed to veil thought in symbols, easily
reversed the process and discerned essential qualities beneath the common or indifferent objects
of the outer world. It was therefore Christ whom S. Christopher carried in the shape of a child;
Christ whom Fra Angelico's Dominicans received in pilgrim's garb at their convent gate; Christ
with whom, under a leper's loathsome form, the flower of Spanish chivalry was said to have
shared his couch.

In all her miracles it will be noticed that S. Catherine showed no originality. Her namesake
of Alexandria had already been proclaimed the spouse of Christ. S. Francis had already received
the stigmata; her other visions were such as had been granted to all fervent mystics; they
were the growth of current religious ideas and unbounded faith. It is not as an innovator in
religious ecstasy, or as the creator of a new kind of spiritual poetry, that we admire S. Catherine.
Her inner life was simply the foundation of her character, her visions were a source of strength
to her in times of trial, or the expression of a more than usually exalted mood; but the means
by which she moved the hearts of men belonged to that which she possessed in common with all
leaders of mankind--enthusiasm, eloquence, the charm of a gracious nature, and the will to
do what she designed. She founded no religious order, like S. Francis or S. Dominic, her predecessors,
or Loyola, her successor. Her work was a woman's work--to make peace, to succour the afflicted,
to strengthen the Church, to purify the hearts of those around her; not to rule or organise.
When she died she left behind her a memory of love more than of power, the fragrance of an
unselfish and gentle life, the echo of sweet and earnest words. Her place is in the heart of
the humble; children belong to her sisterhood, and the poor crowd her shrine on festivals.

Catherine died at Rome on the 29th of April 1380, in her thirty-third year, surrounded by the
most faithful of her friends and followers; but it was not until 1461 that she received the
last honour of canonisation from the hands of Pius II., Æneas Sylvius, her countryman. Æeneas
Sylvius Piccolomini was perhaps the most remarkable man that Siena has produced. Like S. Catherine,
he was one of a large family; twenty of his brothers and sisters perished in a plague. The
licentiousness of his early life, the astuteness of his intellect, and the worldliness of his
aims, contrast with the singularly disinterested character of the saint on whom he conferred
the highest honours of the Church. But he accomplished by diplomacy and skill what Catherine
had begun. If she was instrumental in restoring the Popes to Rome, he ended the schism which
had clouded her last days. She had preached a crusade; he lived to assemble the armies of Christendom
against the Turks, and died at Ancona, while it was still uncertain whether the authority and
enthusiasm of a pope could steady the wavering counsels and vacillating wills of kings and
princes. The middle ages were still vital in S. Catherine; Pius II. belonged by taste and genius
to the new period of Renaissance. The hundreds of the poorer Sienese who kneel before S. Catherine's
shrine prove that her memory is still alive in the hearts of her fellow-citizens; while the
gorgeous library of the cathedral, painted by the hand of Pinturicchio, the sumptuous palace
and the Loggia del Papa designed by Bernardo Rossellino and Antonio Federighi, record the pride
and splendour of the greatest of the Piccolomini. But honourable as it was for Pius to fill
so high a place in the annals of his city; to have left it as a poor adventurer, to return
to it first as bishop, then as pope: to have a chamber in its mother church adorned with the
pictured history of his achievements for a monument, and a triumph of Renaissance architecture
dedicated to his family, gentilibus suis--yet we cannot but feel that the better part remains
with S. Catherine, whose prayer is still whispered by children on their mother's knee, and
whose relics are kissed daily by the simple and devout.

Some of the chief Italian painters have represented the incidents of S. Catherine's life and
of her mystical experience. All the pathos and beauty which we admire in Sodoma's S. Sebastian
at Florence, are surpassed by his fresco of S. Catherine receiving the stigmata. This is one
of several subjects painted by him on the walls of her chapel in San Domenico. The tender unction,
the sweetness, the languor, and the grace which he commanded with such admirable mastery, are
all combined in the figure of the saint falling exhausted into the arms of her attendant nuns.
Soft undulating lines rule the composition; yet dignity of attitude and feature prevails over
mere loveliness. Another of Siena's greatest masters, Beccafumi, has treated the same subject
with less pictorial skill and dramatic effect, but with an earnestness and simplicity that
are very touching. Colourists always liked to introduce the sweeping lines of her white robes
into their compositions. Fra Bartolommeo, who showed consummate art by tempering the masses
of white drapery with mellow tones of brown or amber, painted one splendid picture of the marriage
of S. Catherine, and another in which he represents her prostrate in adoration before the mystery
of the Trinity. His gentle and devout soul sympathised with the spirit of the saint. The fervour
of her devotion belonged to him more truly than the leonine power which he unsuccessfully attempted
to express in his large figure of S. Mark. Other artists have painted the two Catherines together--the
princess of Alexandria, crowned and robed in purple, bearing her palm of martyrdom, beside
the nun of Siena, holding in her hand the lantern with which she went about by night among
the sick. Ambrogio Borgognone makes them stand one on each side of Madonna's throne, while
the infant Christ upon her lap extends His hands to both, in token of their marriage.

The traditional type of countenance which may be traced in all these pictures is not without
a real foundation. Not only does there exist at Siena, in the Church of San Domenico, a contemporary
portrait of S. Catherine, but her head also, which was embalmed immediately after death, is
still preserved. The skin of the face is fair and white, like parchment, and the features have
more the air of sleep than death. We find in them the breadth and squareness of general outline,
and the long, even eyebrows which give peculiar calm to the expression of her pictures. This
relic is shown publicly once a year on the 6th of May. That is the Festa of the saint, when
a procession of priests and acolytes, and pious people holding tapers, and little girls dressed
out in white, carry a splendid silver image of their patroness about the city. Banners and
crosses and censers go in front; then follows the shrine beneath a canopy: roses and leaves
of box are scattered on the path. The whole Contrada d'Oca is decked out with such finery as
the people can muster: red cloths hung from the windows, branches and garlands strewn about
the doorsteps, with brackets for torches on the walls, and altars erected in the middle of
the street. Troops of country-folk and townspeople and priests go in and out to visit the cell
of S. Catherine; the upper and the lower chapel, built upon its site, and the hall of the confraternità
blaze with lighted tapers. The faithful, full of wonder, kneel or stand about the 'santi luoghi,'
marvelling at the relics, and repeating to one another the miracles of the saint. The same
bustle pervades the Church of San Domenico. Masses are being said at one or other chapel all
the morning, while women in their flapping Tuscan hats crowd round the silver image of S. Catherine,
and say their prayers with a continual undercurrent of responses to the nasal voice of priest
or choir. Others gain entrance to the chapel of the saint, and kneel before her altar. There,
in the blaze of sunlight and of tapers, far away behind the gloss and gilding of a tawdry shrine,
is seen the pale, white face which spoke and suffered so much, years ago. The contrast of its
rigid stillness and half-concealed corruption with the noise and life and light outside is
very touching. Even so the remnant of a dead idea still stirs the souls of thousands, and many
ages may roll by before time and oblivion assert their inevitable sway.

    [1] From Leigh Hunt's Translation.

PERUGIA

Perugia is the empress of hill-set Italian cities. Southward from her high-built battlements
and church towers the eye can sweep a circuit of the Apennines unrivalled in its width. From
cloudlike Radicofani, above Siena in the west, to snow-capped Monte Catria, beneath whose summit
Dante spent those saddest months of solitude in 1313, the mountains curve continuously in lines
of austere dignity and tempered sweetness. Assisi, Spoleto, Todi, Trevi, crown lesser heights
within the range of vision. Here and there the glimpse of distant rivers lights a silver spark
upon the plain. Those hills conceal Lake Thrasymene; and there lies Orvieto, and Ancona there:
while at our feet the Umbrian champaign, breaking away into the valley of the Tiber, spreads
in all the largeness of majestically converging mountain-slopes. This is a landscape which
can never lose its charm. Whether it be purple golden summer, or winter with sad tints of russet
woods and faintly rosy snows, or spring attired in tenderest green of new-fledged trees and
budding flowers, the air is always pure and light and finely tempered here. City gates, sombre
as their own antiquity, frame vistas of the laughing fields. Terraces, flanked on either side
by jutting masonry, cut clear vignettes of olive-hoary slopes, with cypress-shadowed farms
in hollows of the hills. Each coign or point of vantage carries a bastion or tower of Etruscan,
Roman, mediæval architecture, tracing the limits of the town upon its mountain plateau. Everywhere
art and nature lie side by side in amity beneath a sky so pure and delicate, that from its
limpid depth the spirit seems to drink new life. What air-tints of lilac, orange, and pale
amethyst are shed upon those vast ethereal hills and undulating plains! What wandering cloud-shadows
sail across this sea of olives and of vines, with here and there a fleece of vapour or a column
of blue smoke from charcoal burners on the mountain flank! To southward, far away beyond those
hills, is felt the presence of eternal Rome, not seen, but clearly indicated by the hurrying
of a hundred streams that swell the Tiber.

In the neighbourhood of the town itself there is plenty to attract the student of antiquities,
or art, or history. He may trace the walls of the Etruscan city, and explore the vaults where
the dust of the Volumnii lies coffered in sarcophagi and urns. Mild faces of grave deities
lean from the living tufa above those narrow alcoves, where the chisel-marks are still fresh,
and where the vigilant lamps still hang suspended from the roof by leaden chains. Or, in the
Museum, he may read on basreliefs and vases how gloomy and morose were the superstitions of
those obscure forerunners of majestic Rome. The piazza offers one of the most perfect Gothic
façades, in its Palazzo Pubblico, to be found in Italy. The flight of marble steps is guarded
from above by the bronze griffin of Perugia and the Baglioni, with the bronze lion of the Guelf
faction, to which the town was ever faithful. Upon their marble brackets they ramp in all the
lean ferocity of feudal heraldry, and from their claws hang down the chains wrested in old
warfare from some barricaded gateway of Siena. Below is the fountain, on the many-sided curves
of which Giovanni Pisano sculptured, in quaint statuettes and basreliefs, all the learning
of the middle ages, from the Bible history down to fables of Æsop and allegories of the several
months. Facing the same piazza is the Sala del Cambio, a mediæval Bourse, with its tribunal
for the settlement of mercantile disputes, and its exquisite carved woodwork and frescoes,
the masterpiece of Perugino's school. Hard by is the University, once crowded with native and
foreign students, where the eloquence of Greek Demetrius in the first dawn of the Renaissance
withdrew the gallants of Perugia--those slim youths with shocks of nut-brown hair beneath their
tiny red caps, whose comely legs, encased in tight-fitting hose of two different colours, looked
so strange to modern eyes upon the canvas of Signorelli--from their dice and wine-cups, and
amours and daggers, to grave studies in the lore of Greece and Rome.

This piazza, the scene of all the bloodiest tragedies in Perugian annals, is closed at the
north end by the Cathedral, with the open pulpit in its wall from which S. Bernardino of Siena
preached peace in vain. The citizens wept to hear his words: a bonfire of vanities was lighted
on the flags beside Pisano's fountain: foe kissed foe: and the same cowl of S. Francis was
set in token of repentance on heads that long had schemed destruction, each for each. But a
few days passed, and the penitents returned to cut each other's throat. Often and often have
those steps of the Duomo run with blood of Baglioni, Oddi, Arcipreti, and La Staffa. Once the
whole church had to be washed with wine and blessed anew before the rites of Christianity could
be resumed in its desecrated aisles. It was here that within the space of two days, in 1500,
the catafalque was raised for the murdered Astorre, and for his traitorous cousin Grifonetto
Baglioni. Here, too, if more ancient tradition does not err, were stretched the corpses of
twenty-seven members of the same great house at the end of one of their grim combats.

No Italian city illustrates more forcibly than Perugia the violent contrasts of the earlier
Renaissance. This is perhaps its most essential characteristic--that which constitutes its
chief æsthetic interest. To many travellers the name of Perugia suggests at once the painter
who, more than any other, gave expression to devout emotions in consummate works of pietistic
art. They remember how Raphael, when a boy, with Pinturicchio, Lo Spagna, and Adone Doni, in
the workshop of Pietro Perugino, learned the secret of that style to which he gave sublimity
and freedom in his Madonnas di San Sisto, di Foligno, and del Cardellino. But the students
of mediæval history in detail know Perugia far better as the lion's lair of one of the most
ferocious broods of heroic ruffians Italy can boast. To them the name of Perugia suggests at
once the great house of the Baglioni, who drenched Umbria with blood, and gave the broad fields
of Assisi to the wolf, and who through six successive generations bred captains for the armies
of Venice, Florence, Naples, and the Church.[1] That the trade of Perugino in religious pictures
should have been carried on in the city which shared the factions of the Baglioni--that Raphael
should have been painting Pietas while Astorre and Simonetto were being murdered by the beautiful
young Grifonetto--is a paradox of the purest water in the history of civilisation.

    [1] Most of the references in this essay are made to the
    Perugian chronicles of Graziani, Matarazzo, Bontempi, and
    Frolliere, in the Archivio Storico Italiano, vol. xvi.
    parts 1 and 2. Ariodante Fabretti's Biografie dei
    Capitani Venturieri dell' Umbria supply some details.

The art of Perugino implied a large number of devout and wealthy patrons, a public not only
capable of comprehending him, but also eager to restrict his great powers within the limits
of purely devotional delineation. The feuds and passions of the Baglioni, on the other hand,
implied a society in which egregious crimes only needed success to be accounted glorious, where
force, cruelty, and cynical craft reigned supreme, and where the animal instincts attained
gigantic proportions in the persons of splendid young athletic despots. Even the names of these
Baglioni, Astorre, Lavinia, Zenobia, Atalanta, Troilo, Ercole, Annibale, Ascanio, Penelope,
Orazio, and so forth, clash with the sweet mild forms of Perugino, whose very executioners
are candidates for Paradise, and kill their martyrs with compunction.

In Italy of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries such contradictions subsisted in the same
place and under the conditions of a common culture, because there was no limit to the development
of personality. Character was far more absolute then than now. The force of the modern world,
working in the men of those times like powerful wine, as yet displayed itself only as a spirit
of freedom and expansion and revolt. The strait laces of mediæval Christianity were loosened.
The coercive action of public opinion had not yet made itself dominant. That was an age of
adolescence, in which men were and dared to be themselves for good or evil. Hypocrisy, except
for some solid, well-defined, selfish purpose, was unknown: the deference to established canons
of decorum which constitutes more than half of our so-called morality, would have been scarcely
intelligible to an Italian. The outlines of individuality were therefore strongly accentuated.
Life itself was dramatic in its incidents and motives, its catastrophes and contrasts. These
conditions, eminently favourable to the growth of arts and the pursuit of science, were no
less conducive to the hypertrophy of passions, and to the full development of ferocious and
inhuman personalities. Every man did what seemed good in his own eyes. Far less restrained
than we are by the verdict of his neighbours, but bound by faith more blind and fiercer superstitions,
he displayed the contradictions of his character in picturesque chiaroscuro. What he could
was the limit set on what he would. Therefore, considering the infinite varieties of human
temperaments, it was not merely possible, but natural, for Pietro Perugino and Gianpaolo Baglioni
to be inhabitants at the same time of the selfsame city, and for the pious Atalanta to mourn
the bloodshed and the treason of her Achillean son, the young and terrible Grifone. Here, in
a word, in Perugia, beneath the fierce blaze of the Renaissance, were brought into splendid
contrast both the martial violence and the religious sentiment of mediævalism, raised for a
moment to the elevation of fine art.

Some of Perugino's qualities can be studied better in Perugia than elsewhere. Of his purely
religious pictures--altar-pieces of Madonna and Saints, martyrdoms of S. Sebastian, Crucifixions,
Ascensions, Annunciations, and Depositions from the Cross,--fine specimens are exhibited in
nearly all the galleries of Europe. A large number of his works and of those of his scholars
may be seen assembled in the Pinacoteca of Perugia. Yet the student of his pietistic style
finds little here of novelty to notice. It is in the Sala del Cambio that we gain a really
new conception of his faculty. Upon the decoration of that little hall he concentrated all
his powers of invention. The frescoes of the Transfiguration and the Nativity, which face the
great door, are the triumphs of his devotional manner. On other panels of the chamber he has
portrayed the philosophers of Greece and Rome, the kings and generals of antiquity, the prophets
and the sibyls who announced Christ's advent. The roof is covered with arabesques of delicate
design and dainty execution--labyrinths of fanciful improvisation, in which flowers and foliage
and human forms are woven into a harmonious framework for the medallions of the seven planets.
The woodwork with which the hall is lined below the frescoes, shows to what a point of perfection
the art of intarsiatura had been carried in his school. All these decorative masterpieces are
the product of one ingenuous style. Uninfluenced by the Roman frescoes imitated by Raphael
in his Loggie of the Vatican, they breathe the spirit of the earlier Renaissance, which created
for itself free forms of grace and loveliness without a pattern, divining by its innate sense
of beauty what the classic artists had achieved. Take for an example the medallion of the planet
Jupiter. The king of gods and men, hoary-headed and mild-eyed, is seated in his chariot drawn
by eagles: before him kneels Ganymede, a fair-haired, exquisite, slim page, with floating mantle
and ribbands fluttering round his tight hose and jerkin. Such were the cup-bearers of Galeazzo
Sforza and Gianpaolo Baglioni. Then compare this fresco with the Jupiter in mosaic upon the
cupola of the Chigi chapel in S. Maria del Popolo at Rome. A new age of experience had passed
over Raphael between his execution of Perugino's design in the one and his conception of the
other. He had seen the marbles of the Vatican, and had heard of Plato in the interval: the
simple graces of the earlier Renaissance were no longer enough for him; but he must realise
the thought of classic myths in his new manner. In the same way we may compare this Transfiguration
with Raphael's last picture, these sibyls with those of S. Maria della Pace, these sages with
the School of Athens, these warriors with the Battle of Maxentius. What is characteristic of
the full-grown Raphael is his universal comprehension, his royal faculty for representing past
and present, near and distant, things the most diverse, by forms ideal and yet distinctive.
Each phase of the world's history and of human activity receives from him appropriate and elevated
expression. What is characteristic of the frescoes in the Sala del Cambio, and indeed of the
whole manner of Perugino, is that all subjects, sacred or secular, allegorical or real, are
conceived in the same spirit of restrained and well-bred piety. There is no attempt at historical
propriety or dramatic realism. Grave, ascetic, melancholy faces of saints are put on bodies
of kings, generals, sages, sibyls, and deities alike. The same ribbands and studied draperies
clothe and connect all. The same conventional attitudes of meditative gracefulness are repeated
in each group. Yet, the whole effect, if somewhat feeble and insipid, is harmonious and thoughtful.
We see that each part has proceeded from the same mind, in the same mood, and that the master's
mind was no common one, the mood itself was noble. Good taste is everywhere apparent: the work
throughout is a masterpiece of refined fancy.

To Perugino the representative imagination was of less importance than a certain delicate and
adequately ideal mode of feeling and conceiving. The consequent charm of his style is that
everything is thought out and rendered visible in one decorous key. The worst that can be said
of it is that its suavity inclines to mawkishness, and that its quietism borders upon sleepiness.
We find it difficult not to accuse him of affectation. At the same time we are forced to allow
that what he did, and what he refrained from doing, was determined by a purpose. A fresco of
the Adoration of the Shepherds, and a picture of S. Sebastian in the Pinacoteca, where the
archer on the right hand is drawn in a natural attitude with force and truth, show well enough
what Perugino could do when he chose.

The best way of explaining his conventionality, in which the supreme power of a master is always
verging on the facile trick of a mannerist, is to suppose that the people of Perugia and the
Umbrian highlands imposed on him this narrow mode of treatment. We may presume that he was
always receiving orders for pictures to be executed in his well-known manner. Celestial insipidity
in art was the fashion in that Umbria which the Baglioni and the Popes laid waste from time
to time with fire and sword.[1]

    [1] It will not be forgotten by students of Italian
    history that Umbria was the cradle of the Battuti or
    Flagellants, who overspread Italy in the fourteenth
    century, and to whose devotion were due the Laude, or
    popular hymns of the religious confraternities, which in
    course of time produced the Sacre Rappresentazioni of
    fifteenth-century Florentine literature. Umbria, and
    especially Perugia and Assisi, seems to have been
    inventive in piety between 1200 and 1400.

Therefore the painter who had made his reputation by placing devout young faces upon twisted
necks, with a back-ground of limpid twilight and calm landscape, was forced by the fervour
of his patrons, and his own desire for money, to perpetuate pious prettinesses long after he
had ceased to feel them. It is just this widespread popularity of a master unrivalled in one
line of devotional sentimentalism which makes the contrast between Perugino and the Baglioni
family so striking.

The Baglioni first came into notice during the wars they carried on with the Oddi of Perugia
in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.[1] This was one of those duels to the death, like
that of the Visconti with the Torrensi of Milan, on which the fate of so many Italian cities
in the middle ages hung. The nobles fought; the townsfolk assisted like a Greek chorus, sharing
the passions of the actors, but contributing little to the catastrophe. The piazza was the
theatre on which the tragedy was played. In this contest the Baglioni proved the stronger,
and began to sway the state of Perugia after the irregular fashion of Italian despots. They
had no legal right over the city, no hereditary magistracy, no title of princely authority.[2]
The Church was reckoned the supreme administrator of the Perugian commonwealth. But in reality
no man could set foot on the Umbrian plain without permission from the Baglioni. They elected
the officers of state. The lives and goods of the citizens were at their discretion. When a
Papal legate showed his face, they made the town too hot to hold him. One of Innocent VIII.'s
nephews had been murdered by them.[3] Another cardinal had shut himself up in a box, and sneaked
on mule-back like a bale of merchandise through the gates to escape their fury. It was in vain
that from time to time the people rose against them, massacring Pandolfo Baglioni on the public
square in 1393, and joining with Ridolfo and Braccio of the dominant house to assassinate another
Pandolfo with his son Niccolo in 1460. The more they were cut down, the more they flourished.
The wealth they derived from their lordships in the duchy of Spoleto and the Umbrian hill-cities,
and the treasures they accumulated in the service of the Italian republics, made them omnipotent
in their native town. There they built tall houses on the site which Paul III. chose afterwards
for his castello, and which is now an open place above the Porta San Carlo. From the balconies
and turrets of these palaces, swarming with their bravi, they surveyed the splendid land that
felt their force--a land which, even in midsummer, from sunrise to sunset keeps the light of
day upon its up-turned face. And from this eyrie they issued forth to prey upon the plain,
or to take their lust of love or blood within the city streets. The Baglioni spent but short
time in the amusements of peace. From father to son they were warriors, and we have records
of few Italian houses, except perhaps the Malatesti of Rimini, who equalled them in hardihood
and fierceness. Especially were they noted for the remorseless vendette which they carried
on among themselves, cousin tracking cousin to death with the ferocity and craft of sleuthhounds.
Had they restrained these fratricidal passions, they might, perhaps, by following some common
policy, like that of the Medici in Florence or the Bentivogli in Bologna, have successfully
resisted the Papal authority and secured dynastic sovereignty.

    [1] The Baglioni persecuted their rivals with persistent
    fury to the very last. Matarazzo tells how Morgante
    Baglioni gave a death-wound to his nephew, the young Carlo
    de li Oddi, in 1501: 'Dielli una ferita nella formosa
    faccia: el quale era in aspetto vago e bello giovane d'
    anni 23 o 24, al quale uscivano e bionde tresse sotto la
    bella armadura.' The same night his kinsman Pompeo was
    murdered in prison with this last lament upon his lips: 'O
    infelice casa degli Oddi, quale aveste tanta, fama di
    conduttieri, capitanie, cavaliere, speron d' oro,
    protonotarie, e abbate; et in uno solo tempo aveste homine
    quarantadue; e oggie, per me quale son ultimo, se asconde
    el nome de la magnifica e famosa casa degli Oddi, che mai
    al mondo non serà píu nominata' (p. 175).

    [2] The Baglioni were lords of Spello, Bettona, Montalera,
    and other Umbrian burghs, but never of Perugia. Perugia
    had a civic constitution similar to that of Florence and
    other Guelf towns under the protection of the Holy See.
    The power of the eminent house was based only on wealth
    and prestige.

    [3] See Matarazzo, p. 38. It is here that he relates the
    covert threat addressed by Guido Baglioni to Alexander
    VI., who was seeking to inveigle him into his clutches.

It is not until 1495 that the history of the Baglioni becomes dramatic, possibly because till
then they lacked the pen of Matarazzo.[1] But from this year forward to their final extinction,
every detail of their doings has a picturesque and awful interest. Domestic furies, like the
revel descried by Cassandra above the palace of Mycenæ, seem to take possession of the fated
house; and the doom which has fallen on them is worked out with pitiless exactitude to the
last generation. In 1495 the heads of the Casa Baglioni were two brothers, Guido and Ridolfo,
who had a numerous progeny of heroic sons. From Guido sprang Astorre, Adriano, called for his
great strength Morgante,[2] Gismondo, Marcantonio, and Gentile. Ridolfo owned Troilo, Gianpaolo,
and Simonetto. The first glimpse we get of these young athletes in Matarazzo's chronicle is
on the occasion of a sudden assault upon Perugia, made by the Oddi and the exiles of their
faction in September 1495. The foes of the Baglioni entered the gates, and began breaking the
iron chains, serragli, which barred the streets against advancing cavalry. None of the noble
house were on the alert except young Simonetto, a lad of eighteen, fierce and cruel, who had
not yet begun to shave his chin.[3] In spite of all dissuasion, he rushed forth alone, bareheaded,
in his shirt, with a sword in his right hand and a buckler on his arm, and fought against a
squadron. There at the barrier of the piazza he kept his foes at bay, smiting men-at-arms to
the ground with the sweep of his tremendous sword, and receiving on his gentle body twenty-two
cruel wounds. While thus at fearful odds, the noble Astorre mounted his charger and joined
him. Upon his helmet flashed the falcon of the Baglioni with the dragon's tail that swept behind.
Bidding Simonetto tend his wounds, he in his turn held the square.

    [1] His chronicle is a masterpiece of naïve, unstudied
    narrative. Few documents are so important for the student
    of the sixteenth century in Italy. Whether it be really
    the work of Matarazzo or Maturanzio, the distinguished
    humanist, is more than doubtful. The writer seems to me as
    yet unspoiled by classic studies and the pedantries of
    imitation.

    [2] This name, it may be incidentally mentioned, proves
    the wide-spread popularity of Pulci's poem, the Morgante
    Maggiore.

    [3] 'Era costui al presente di anni 18 o 19; ancora non se
    radeva barba; e mostrava tanta forza e tanto ardire, e era
    tanto adatto nel fatto d' arme, che era gran maraveglia; e
    iostrava cum tanta gintilezza e gagliardia, che homo del
    mondo non l' aria mai creso; et aria dato con la punta de
    la lancia in nel fondo d' uno bicchiere da la mattina a la
    sera,' &c. (p. 50).

Listen to Matarazzo's description of the scene; it is as good as any piece of the 'Mort Arthur:'--'According
to the report of one who told me what he had seen with his own eyes, never did anvil take so
many blows as he upon his person and his steed; and they all kept striking at his lordship
in such crowds that the one prevented the other. And so many lances, partisans, and crossbow
quarries, and other weapons, made upon his body a most mighty din, that above every other noise
and shout was heard the thud of those great strokes. But he, like one who had the mastery of
war, set his charger where the press was thickest, jostling now one, and now another; so that
he ever kept at least ten men of his foes stretched on the ground beneath his horse's hoofs;
which horse was a most fierce beast, and gave his enemies what trouble he best could. And now
that gentle lord was all fordone with sweat and toil, he and his charger; and so weary were
they that scarcely could they any longer breathe.'

Soon after, the Baglioni mustered in force. One by one their heroes rushed from the palaces.
The enemy were driven back with slaughter; and a war ensued, which made the fair land between
Assisi and Perugia a wilderness for many months. It must not be forgotten that, at the time
of these great feats of Simonetto and Astorre, young Raphael was painting in the studio of
Perugino. What the whole city witnessed with astonishment and admiration, he, the keenly sensitive
artist-boy, treasured in his memory. Therefore in the S. George of the Louvre, and in the mounted
horseman trampling upon Heliodorus in the Stanze of the Vatican, victorious Astorre lives for
ever, immortalised in all his splendour by the painter's art. The grinning griffin on the helmet,
the resistless frown upon the forehead of the beardless knight, the terrible right arm, and
the ferocious steed,--all are there as Raphael saw and wrote them on his brain. One characteristic
of the Baglioni, as might be plentifully illustrated from their annalist, was their eminent
beauty, which inspired beholders with an enthusiasm and a love they were far from deserving
by their virtues. It is this, in combination with their personal heroism, which gives a peculiarly
dramatic interest to their doings, and makes the chronicle of Matarazzo more fascinating than
a novel. He seems unable to write about them without using the language of an adoring lover.

In the affair of 1495 the Baglioni were at amity among themselves. When they next appear upon
the scene, they are engaged in deadly feud. Cousin has set his hand to the throat of cousin,
and the two heroes of the piazza are destined to be slain by foulest treachery of their own
kin. It must be premised that besides the sons of Guido and Ridolfo already named, the great
house counted among its most distinguished members a young Grifone, or Grifonetto, the son
of Grifone and Atalanta Baglioni. Both his father and grandfather had died violent deaths in
the prime of their youth; Galeotto, the father of Atalanta, by poison, and Grifone by the knife
at Ponte Ricciolo in 1477. Atalanta was left a young widow with one only son, this Grifonetto,
whom Matarazzo calls 'un altro Ganimede,' and who combined the wealth of two chief branches
of the Baglioni. In 1500, when the events about to be related took place, he was quite a youth.
Brave, rich, handsome, and married to a young wife, Zenobia Sforza, he was the admiration of
Perugia. He and his wife loved each other dearly; and how, indeed, could it be otherwise, since
'l' uno e l' altro sembravano doi angioli di Paradiso?' At the same time he had fallen into
the hands of bad and desperate counsellors. A bastard of the house, Filippo da Braccio, his
half-uncle, was always at his side, instructing him not only in the accomplishments of chivalry,
but also in wild ways that brought his name into disrepute. Another of his familiars was Carlo
Barciglia Baglioni, an unquiet spirit, who longed for more power than his poverty and comparative
obscurity allowed. With them associated Jeronimo della Penna, a veritable ruffian, contaminated
from his earliest youth with every form of lust and violence, and capable of any crime.[1]
These three companions, instigated partly by the Lord of Camerino and partly by their own cupidity,
conceived a scheme for massacring the families of Guido and Ridolfo at one blow. As a consequence
of this wholesale murder, Perugia would be at their discretion. Seeing of what use Grifonetto
by his wealth and name might be to them, they did all they could to persuade him to join their
conjuration. It would appear that the bait first offered him was the sovereignty of the city,
but that he was at last gained over by being made to believe that his wife Zenobia had carried
on an intrigue with Gianpaolo Baglioni. The dissolute morals of the family gave plausibility
to an infernal trick which worked upon the jealousy of Grifonetto. Thirsting for revenge, he
consented to the scheme. The conspirators were further fortified by the accession of Jeronimo
della Staffa, and three members of the House of Corgna. It is noticeable that out of the whole
number only two, Bernardo da Corgna and Filippo da Braccio, were above the age of thirty. Of
the rest, few had reached twenty-five. At so early an age were the men of those times adepts
in violence and treason. The execution of the plot was fixed for the wedding festivities of
Astorre Baglioni with Lavinia, the daughter of Giovanni Colonna and Giustina Orsini. At that
time the whole Baglioni family were to be assembled in Perugia, with the single exception of
Marcantonio, who was taking baths at Naples for his health. It was known that the members of
the noble house, nearly all of them condottieri by trade, and eminent for their great strength
and skill in arms, took few precautions for their safety. They occupied several houses close
together between the Porta San Carlo and the Porta Eburnea, set no regular guard over their
sleeping chambers, and trusted to their personal bravery, and to the fidelity of their attendants.[2]
It was thought that they might be assassinated in their beds. The wedding festivities began
upon the 28th of July, and great is the particularity with which Matarazzo describes the doings
of each successive day--processions, jousts, triumphal arches, banquets, balls, and pageants.
The night of the 14th of August was finally set apart for the consummation of el gran tradimento:
it is thus that Matarazzo always alludes to the crime of Grifonetto with a solemnity of reiteration
that is most impressive. A heavy stone let fall into the courtyard of Guido Baglioni's palace
was to be the signal: each conspirator was then to run to the sleeping chamber of his appointed
prey. Two of the principals and fifteen bravi were told off to each victim: rams and crowbars
were prepared to force the doors, if needful. All happened as had been anticipated. The crash
of the falling stone was heard. The conspirators rushed to the scene of operations. Astorre,
who was sleeping in the house of his traitorous cousin Grifonetto, was slain in the arms of
his young bride, crying, as he vainly struggled, 'Misero Astorre che more come poltrone!' Simonetto,
who lay that night with a lad called Paolo he greatly loved, flew to arms, exclaiming to his
brother, 'Non dubitare Gismondo, mio fratello!' He too was soon despatched, together with his
bedfellow. Filippo da Braccio, after killing him, tore from a great wound in his side the still
quivering heart, into which he drove his teeth with savage fury. Old Guido died groaning, 'Ora
è gionto il ponto mio;' and Gismondo's throat was cut while he lay holding back his face that
he might be spared the sight of his own massacre. The corpses of Astorre and Simonetto were
stripped and thrown out naked into the streets. Men gathered round and marvelled to see such
heroic forms, with faces so proud and fierce even in death. In especial the foreign students
likened them to ancient Romans.[3] But on their fingers were rings, and these the ruffians
of the place would fain have hacked off with their knives. From this indignity the noble limbs
were spared; then the dead Baglioni were hurriedly consigned to an unhonoured tomb. Meanwhile
the rest of the intended victims managed to escape. Gianpaolo, assailed by Grifonetto and Gianfrancesco
della Corgna, took refuge with his squire and bedfellow, Maraglia, upon a staircase leading
from his room. While the squire held the passage with his pike against the foe, Gianpaolo effected
his flight over neighbouring house-roofs. He crept into the attic of some foreign students,
who, trembling with terror, gave him food and shelter, clad him in a scholar's gown, and helped
him to fly in this disguise from the gates at dawn. He then joined his brother Troilo at Marsciano,
whence he returned without delay to punish the traitors. At the same time Grifonetto's mother,
Atalanta, taking with her his wife Zenobia and the two young sons of Gianpaolo, Malatesta and
Orazio, afterwards so celebrated in Italian history for their great feats of arms and their
crimes, fled to her country-house at Landona. Grifonetto in vain sought to see her there. She
drove him from her presence with curses for the treason and the fratricide that he had planned.
It is very characteristic of these wild natures, framed of fierce instincts and discordant
passions, that his mother's curse weighed like lead upon the unfortunate young man. Next day,
when Gianpaolo returned to try the luck of arms, Grifonetto, deserted by the companions of
his crime and paralysed by the sense of his guilt, went out alone to meet him on the public
place. The semi-failure of their scheme had terrified the conspirators: the horrors of that
night of blood unnerved them. All had fled except the next victim of the feud. Putting his
sword to the youth's throat, Gianpaolo looked into his eyes and said, 'Art thou here, Grifonetto?
Go with God's peace: I will not slay thee, nor plunge my hand in my own blood, as thou hast
done in thine.' Then he turned and left the lad to be hacked in pieces by his guard. The untranslatable
words which Matarazzo uses to describe his death are touching from the strong impression they
convey of Grifonetto's goodliness: 'Qui ebbe sua signoria sopra sua nobile persona tante ferite
che suoi membra leggiadre stese in terra.'[4] None but Greeks felt the charm of personal beauty
thus. But while Grifonetto was breathing out his life upon the pavement of the piazza, his
mother Atalanta and his wife Zenobia came to greet him through the awe-struck city. As they
approached, all men fell aside and slunk away before their grief. None would seem to have had
a share in Grifonetto's murder. Then Atalanta knelt by her dying son, and ceased from wailing,
and prayed and exhorted him to pardon those who had caused his death. It appears that Grifonetto
was too weak to speak, but that he made a signal of assent, and received his mother's blessing
at the last: 'E allora porse el nobil giovenetto la dextra mano a la sua giovenile matre strengendo
de sua matre la bianca mano; e poi incontinente spirò l' anima dal formoso corpo, e passò cum
infinite benedizioni de sua matre in cambio de la maledictione che prima li aveva date.'[5]
Here again the style of Matarazzo, tender and full of tears, conveys the keenest sense of the
pathos of beauty and of youth in death and sorrow. He has forgotten el gran tradimento. He
only remembers how comely Grifonetto was, how noble, how frank and spirited, how strong in
war, how sprightly in his pleasures and his loves. And he sees the still young mother, delicate
and nobly born, leaning over the athletic body of her bleeding son. This scene, which is perhaps
a genuine instance of what we may call the neo-Hellenism of the Renaissance, finds its parallel
in the 'Phoenissæ' of Euripides. Jocasta and Antigone have gone forth to the battlefield and
found the brothers Polynices and Eteocles drenched in blood:--

                        From his chest
  Heaving a heavy breath, King Eteocles heard
  His mother, and stretched forth a cold damp hand
  On hers, and nothing said, but with his eyes
  Spake to her by his tears, showing kind thoughts
  In symbols.

It was Atalanta, we may remember, who commissioned Raphael to paint the so-called Borghese
Entombment. Did she perhaps feel, as she withdrew from the piazza, soaking with young Grifonetto's
blood,[6] that she too had some portion in the sorrow of that mother who had wept for Christ?
The memory of the dreadful morning must have remained with her through life, and long communion
with our Lady of Sorrows may have sanctified the grief that had so bitter and so shameful a
root of sin.

    [1] Matarazzo's description of the ruffians who surrounded
    Grifonetto (pp. 104, 105, 113) would suit Webster's
    Flamineo or Bosola. In one place he likens Filippo to
    Achitophel and Grifonetto to Absalom. Villano Villani,
    quoted by Fabretti (vol. iii. p. 125), relates the street
    adventures of this clique. It is a curious picture of the
    pranks of an Italian princeling in the fifteenth century.

    [2] Jacobo Antiquari, the secretary of Lodovico Sforza, in
    a curious letter, which gives an account of the massacre,
    says that he had often reproved the Baglioni for 'sleeping
    in their beds without any guard or watch, so that they
    might easily be overcome by enemies.'
    [3] 'Quelli che li vidino, e maxime li forastiere
    studiante assimigliavano el magnifico Messer Astorre così
    morto ad un antico Romano, perchè prima era unanissimo;
    tanto sua figura era degnia e magnia,' &c. This is a touch
    exquisitely illustrative of the Renaissance enthusiasm for
    classic culture.

    [4] Here his lordship received upon his noble person so
    many wounds that he stretched his graceful limbs upon the
    earth.

    [5] 'And then the noble stripling stretched his right hand
    to his youthful mother, pressing the white hand of his
    mother; and afterwards forthwith he breathed his soul
    forth from his beauteous body, and died with numberless
    blessings of his mother instead of the curses she had
    given him before.'

    [6] See Matarazzo, p. 134, for this detail.

After the death of Grifonetto, and the flight of the conspirators, Gianpaolo took possession
of Perugia. All who were suspected of complicity in the treason were massacred upon the piazza
and in the Cathedral. At the expense of more than a hundred murders, the chief of the Baglioni
found himself master of the city on the 17th of July. First he caused the Cathedral to be washed
with wine and reconsecrated. Then he decorated the Palazzo with the heads of the traitors and
with their portraits in fresco, painted hanging head downwards, as was the fashion in Italy.[1]
Next he established himself in what remained of the palaces of his kindred, hanging the saloons
with black, and arraying his retainers in the deepest mourning. Sad indeed was now the aspect
of Perugia. Helpless and comparatively uninterested, the citizens had been spectators of these
bloody broils. They were now bound to share the desolation of their masters. Matarazzo's description
of the mournful palace and the silent town, and of the return of Marcantonio from Naples, presents
a picture striking for its vividness.[2] In the true style of the Baglioni, Marcantonio sought
to vent his sorrow not so much in tears as by new violence. He prepared and lighted torches,
meaning to burn the whole quarter of Sant' Angelo; and from this design he was with difficulty
dissuaded by his brother. To such mad freaks of rage and passion were the inhabitants of a
mediæval town in Italy exposed! They make us understand the ordinanze di giustizia, by which
to be a noble was a crime in Florence.

    [1] See Varchi (ed. Lemonnier, 1857), vol. ii. p. 265,
    vol. iii. pp. 224, 652, and Corio (Venice, 1554), p. 326,
    for instances of dipinti per traditori.

    [2] P. 142. 'Pareva ogni cosa oscura e lacrimosa: tutte
    loro servitore piangevano; et le camere de lo resto de li
    magnifici Baglioni, e sale, e ognie cosa erano tutte
    intorno cum pagnie negre. E per la città non era più
    alcuno che sonasse nè cantasse; e poco si rideva,' &c.

From this time forward the whole history of the Baglioni family is one of crime and bloodshed.
A curse had fallen on the house, and to the last of its members the penalty was paid. Gianpaolo
himself acquired the highest reputation throughout Italy for his courage and sagacity both
as a general and a governor.[1] It was he who held Julius II. at his discretion in 1506, and
was sneered at by Machiavelli for not consummating his enormities by killing the warlike Pope.[2]
He again, after joining the diet of La Magione against Cesare Borgia, escaped by his acumen
the massacre of Sinigaglia, which overthrew the other conspirators. But his name was no less
famous for unbridled lust and deeds of violence. He boasted that his son Constantino was a
true Baglioni, since he was his sister's child. He once told Machiavelli that he had it in
his mind to murder four citizens of Perugia, his enemies. He looked calmly on while his kinsmen
Eusebio and Taddeo Baglioni, who had been accused of treason, were hewn to pieces by his guard.
His wife, Ippolita de' Conti, was poignarded in her Roman farm; on hearing the news, he ordered
a festival in which he was engaged to proceed with redoubled merriment.[3] At last the time
came for him to die by fraud and violence. Leo X., anxious to remove so powerful a rival from
Perugia, lured him in 1520 to Rome under the false protection of a papal safe-conduct. After
a short imprisonment he had him beheaded in the Castle of S. Angelo. It was thought that Gentile,
his first cousin, sometime Bishop of Orvieto, but afterwards the father of two sons in wedlock
with Giulia Vitelli--such was the discipline of the Church at this epoch--had contributed to
the capture of Gianpaolo, and had exulted in his execution.[4] If so, he paid dear for his
treachery; for Orazio Baglioni, the second son of Gianpaolo and captain of the Church under
Clement VII., had him murdered in 1527, together with his two nephews Fileno and Annibale.[5]
This Orazio was one of the most bloodthirsty of the whole brood. Not satisfied with the assassination
of Gentile, he stabbed Galeotto, the son of Grifonetto, with his own hand in the same year.[6]
Afterwards he died in the kingdom of Naples while leading the Black Bands in the disastrous
war which followed the sack of Rome. He left no son. Malatesta, his elder brother, became one
of the most celebrated generals of the age, holding the batons of the Venetian and Florentine
republics, and managing to maintain his ascendency in Perugia in spite of the persistent opposition
of successive popes. But his name is best known in history for one of the greatest public crimes--a
crime which must be ranked with that of Marshal Bazaine. Intrusted with the defence of Florence
during the siege of 1530, he sold the city to his enemy, Pope Clement, receiving for the price
of this infamy certain privileges and immunities which fortified his hold upon Perugia for
a season. All Italy was ringing with the great deeds of the Florentines, who for the sake of
their liberty transformed themselves from merchants into soldiers, and withstood the united
powers of Pope and Emperor alone. Meanwhile Malatesta, whose trade was war, and who was being
largely paid for his services by the beleaguered city, contrived by means of diplomatic procrastination,
secret communication with the enemy, and all the arts that could intimidate an army of recruits,
to push affairs to a point at which Florence was forced to capitulate without inflicting the
last desperate glorious blow she longed to deal her enemies. The universal voice of Italy condemned
him. When Matteo Dandolo, the Doge of Venice, heard what he had done, he cried before the Pregadi
in conclave, 'He has sold that people and that city, and the blood of those poor citizens ounce
by ounce, and has donned the cap of the biggest traitor in the world.'[7] Consumed with shame,
corroded by an infamous disease, and mistrustful of Clement, to whom he had sold his honour,
Malatesta retired to Perugia, and died in 1531. He left one son, Ridolfo, who was unable to
maintain himself in the lordship of his native city. After killing the Papal legate, Cinzio
Filonardi, in 1534, he was dislodged four years afterwards, when Paul III. took final possession
of the place as an appanage of the Church, razed the houses of the Baglioni to the ground,
and built upon their site the Rocca Paolina. This fortress bore an inscription: 'Ad coercendam
Perusinorum audaciam.' The city was given over to the rapacity of the abominable Pier Luigi
Farnese, and so bad was this tyranny of priests and bastards, that, strange to say, the Perugians
regretted the troublous times of the Baglioni. Malatesta in dying had exclaimed, 'Help me,
if you can; since after me you will be set to draw the cart like oxen.' Frollieri, relating
the speech, adds, 'And this has been fulfilled to the last letter, for all have borne not only
the yoke but the burden and the goad.' Ridolfo Baglioni and his cousin Braccio, the eldest
son of Grifonetto, were both captains of Florence. The one died in battle in 1554, the other
in 1559. Thus ended the illustrious family. They are now represented by descendants from females,
and by contadini who preserve their name and boast a pedigree of which they have no records.

    [1] See Frollieri, p. 437, for a very curious account of
    his character.

    [2] Fabretti (vol. iii. pp. 193-202. and notes) discusses
    this circumstance in detail. Machiavelli's critique runs
    thus (Discorsi, lib. i. cap. 27): 'Nè si poteva credere
    che si fosse astenuto o per bontà, o per coscienza che lo
    ritenesse; perchè in un petto d'un uomo facinoroso, che si
    teneva la sorella, ch' aveva morti i cugini e i nipotí per
    regnare, non poteva scendere alcuno pietoso rispetto: ma
    si conchiuse che gli uomini non sanno essere onorevolmente
    tristi, o perfettamente buoni,' &c.

    [3] See Fabretti, vol. iii. p. 230. He is an authority for
    the details of Gianpaolo's life. The circumstance alluded
    to above justifies the terrible opening scene in Shelley's
    tragedy, The Cenci.

    [4] Fabretti, vol. iii. p. 230, vol. iv. p. 10.

    [5] See Varchi, Storie Florentine, vol. i. p. 224.

    [6] Ibid.

    [7] Fabretti, vol. iv. p. 206.

The history of the Baglioni needs no commentary. They were not worse than other Italian nobles,
who by their passions and their parties destroyed the peace of the city they infested. It is
with an odd mixture of admiration and discontent that the chroniclers of Perugia allude to
their ascendency. Matarazzo, who certainly cannot be accused of hostility to the great house,
describes the miseries of his country under their bad government in piteous terms:[1] 'As I
wish not to swerve from the pure truth, I say that from the day the Oddi were expelled, our
city went from bad to worse. All the young men followed the trade of arms. Their lives were
disorderly; and every day divers excesses were divulged, and the city had lost all reason and
justice. Every man administered right unto himself, propriâ autoritate et manu regiâ. Meanwhile
the Pope sent many legates, if so be the city could be brought to order: but all who came returned
in dread of being hewn in pieces; for they threatened to throw some from the windows of the
palace, so that no cardinal or other legate durst approach Perugia, unless he were a friend
of the Baglioni. And the city was brought to such misery, that the most wrongous men were most
prized; and those who had slain two or three men walked as they listed through the palace,
and went with sword or poignard to speak to the podestà and other magistrates. Moreover, every
man of worth was down-trodden by bravi whom the nobles favoured; nor could a citizen call his
property his own. The nobles robbed first one and then another of goods and land. All offices
were sold or else suppressed; and taxes and extortions were so grievous that every one cried
out. And if a man were in prison for his head, he had no reason to fear death, provided he
had some interest with a noble.' Yet the same Matarazzo in another place finds it in his heart
to say:[2] 'Though the city suffered great pains for these nobles, yet the illustrious house
of Baglioni brought her honour throughout Italy, by reason of the great dignity and splendour
of that house, and of their pomp and name. Wherefore through them our city was often set above
the rest, and notably above the commonwealths of Florence and Siena.' Pride feels no pain.
The gratified vanity of the Perugian burgher, proud to see his town preferred before its neighbours,
blinds the annalist to all the violence and villany of the magnificent Casa Baglioni. So strong
was the esprit de ville which through successive centuries and amid all vicissitudes of politics
divided the Italians against themselves, and proved an insuperable obstacle to unity.

    [1] Pp. 102, 103.

    [2] P. 139.

After reading the chronicle of Matarazzo at Perugia through one winter day, I left the inn
and walked at sunset to the blood-bedabbled cathedral square; for still those steps and pavements
to my strained imagination seemed reeking with the outpoured blood of Baglioni; and on the
ragged stonework of San Lorenzo red patches slanted from the dying day. Then by one of those
strange freaks of the brain to which we are all subject, for a moment I lost sight of untidy
Gothic façades and gaunt unfinished church walls; and as I walked, I was in the Close of Salisbury
on a perfumed summer afternoon. The drowsy scent of lime-flowers and mignonette, the cawing
of elm-cradled rooks, the hum of bees above, the velvet touch of smooth-shorn grass, and the
breathless shadow of motionless green boughs made up one potent and absorbing mood of the charmed
senses. Far overhead soared the calm grey spire into the infinite air, and the perfection of
accomplished beauty slept beneath in those long lines of nave and choir and transepts. It was
but a momentary dream, a thought that burned itself upon a fancy overtaxed by passionate images.
Once more the puppet-scene of the brain was shifted; once more I saw the bleak bare flags of
the Perugian piazza, the forlorn front of the Duomo, the bronze griffin, and Pisano's fountain,
with here and there a flake of that tumultuous fire which the Italian sunset sheds. Who shall
adequately compare the two pictures? Which shall we prefer--the Close of Salisbury, with its
sleepy bells and cushioned ease of immemorial Deans--or this poor threadbare passion of Perugia,
where every stone is stained with blood, and where genius in painters and scholars and prophets
and ecstatic lovers has throbbed itself away to nothingness? It would be foolish to seek an
answer to this question, idle to institute a comparison, for instance, between those tall young
men with their broad winter cloaks who remind me of Grifonetto, and the vergers pottering in
search of shillings along the gravel paths of Salisbury. It is more rational, perhaps, to reflect
of what strange stuff our souls are made in this age of the world, when æsthetic pleasures,
full, genuine, and satisfying, can be communicated alike by Perugia with its fascination of
a dead irrevocable dramatic past, and Salisbury, which finds the artistic climax of its English
comfort in the 'Angel in the House.' From Matarazzo, smitten with a Greek love for the beautiful
Grifonetto, to Mr. Patmore, is a wide step.

ORVIETO

On the road from Siena to Rome, halfway between Ficulle and Viterbo, is the town of Orvieto.
Travellers often pass it in the night-time. Few stop there, for the place is old and dirty,
and its inns are said to be indifferent. But none who see it even from a distance can fail
to be struck with its imposing aspect, as it rises from the level plain upon that mass of rock
among the Apennines.

Orvieto is built upon the first of those huge volcanic blocks which are found like fossils
embedded in the more recent geological formations of Central Italy, and which stretch in an
irregular but unbroken line to the Campagna of Rome. Many of them, like that on which Civita
Castellana is perched, are surrounded by rifts and chasms and ravines and fosses, strangely
furrowed and twisted by the force of fiery convulsions. But their advanced guard, Orvieto,
stands up definite and solid, an almost perfect cube, with walls precipitous to north and south
and east, but slightly sloping to the westward. At its foot rolls the Paglia, one of those
barren streams which swell in winter with the snows and rains of the Apennines, but which in
summer-time shrink up, and leave bare beds of sand and pestilential canebrakes to stretch irregularly
round their dwindled waters.

The weary flatness and utter desolation of this valley present a sinister contrast to the broad
line of the Apennines, swelling tier on tier, from their oak-girdled basements set with villages
and towers, up to the snow and cloud that crown their topmost crags. The time to see this landscape
is at sunrise; and the traveller should take his stand upon the rising ground over which the
Roman road is carried from the town--the point, in fact, which Turner has selected for his
vague and misty sketch of Orvieto in our Gallery. Thence he will command the whole space of
the plain, the Apennines, and the river creeping in a straight line at the base; while the
sun, rising to his right, will slant along the mountain flanks, and gild the leaden stream,
and flood the castled crags of Orvieto with a haze of light. From the centre of this glory
stand out in bold relief old bastions built upon the solid tufa, vast gaping gateways black
in shadow, towers of churches shooting up above a medley of deep-corniced tall Italian houses,
and, amid them all, the marble front of the Cathedral, calm and solemn in its unfamiliar Gothic
state. Down to the valley from these heights there is a sudden fall; and we wonder how the
few spare olive-trees that grow there can support existence on the steep slope of the cliff.

Our mind, in looking at this landscape, is carried by the force of old association to Jerusalem.
We could fancy ourselves to be standing on Mount Olivet, with the valley of Jehoshaphat between
us and the Sacred City. As we approach the town, the difficulty of scaling its crags seems
insurmountable. The road, though carried skilfully along each easy slope or ledge of quarried
rock, still winds so much that nearly an hour is spent in the ascent. Those who can walk should
take a footpath, and enter Orvieto by the mediæval road, up which many a Pope, flying from
rebellious subjects or foreign enemies, has hurried on his mule.[1]

    [1] Clement VII., for example, escaped from Rome disguised
    as a gardener after the sack in 1527, and, to quote the
    words of Varchi (St. Flor., v. 17), 'Entrò agli otto di
    dicembre a due ore di notte in Orvieto, terra di sito
    fortissimo, per lo essere ella sopra uno scoglio pieno di
    tufi posta, d' ogni intorno scosceso e dirupato,' &c.

To unaccustomed eyes there is something forbidding and terrible about the dark and cindery
appearance of volcanic tufa. Where it is broken, the hard and gritty edges leave little space
for vegetation; while at intervals the surface spreads so smooth and straight that one might
take it for solid masonry erected by the architect of Pandemonium. Rubbish and shattered bits
of earthenware and ashes, thrown from the city walls, cling to every ledge and encumber the
broken pavement of the footway. Then as we rise, the castle battlements above appear more menacing,
toppling upon the rough edge of the crag, and guarding each turn of the road with jealous loopholes
or beetle-browed machicolations, until at last the gateway and portcullis are in view.

On first entering Orvieto, one's heart fails to find so terrible a desolation, so squalid a
solitude, and so vast a difference between the present and the past, between the beauty of
surrounding nature and the misery of this home of men. A long space of unoccupied ground intervenes
between the walls and the hovels which skirt the modern town. This, in the times of its splendour,
may have served for oliveyards, vineyards, and pasturage, in case of siege. There are still
some faint traces of dead gardens left upon its arid wilderness, among the ruins of a castellated
palace, decorated with the cross-keys and tiara of an unremembered pope. But now it lies a
mere tract of scorched grass, insufferably hot and dry and sandy, intersected by dirty paths,
and covered with the loathliest offal of a foul Italian town. Should you cross this ground
at mid-day, under the blinding sun, when no living thing, except perhaps some poisonous reptile,
is about, you would declare that Orvieto had been stricken for its sins by Heaven. Your mind
would dwell mechanically on all that you have read of Papal crimes, of fratricidal wars, of
Pagan abominations in the high places of the Church, of tempestuous passions and refined iniquity--of
everything, in fact, which renders Italy of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance dark and ominous
amid the splendours of her art and civilisation. This is the natural result; this shrunken
and squalid old age of poverty and self-abandonment is the end of that strong, prodigal, and
vicious youth. Who shall restore vigour to these dead bones? we cry. If Italy is to live again,
she must quit her ruined palace towers to build fresh dwellings elsewhere. Filth, lust, rapacity,
treason, godlessness, and violence have made their habitation here; ghosts haunt these ruins;
these streets still smell of blood and echo to the cries of injured innocence; life cannot
be pure, or calm, or healthy, where this curse has settled.

Occupied with such reflections, we reach the streets of Orvieto. They are not very different
from those of most Italian villages, except that there is little gaiety about them. Like Assisi
or Siena, Orvieto is too large for its population, and merriment flows better from close crowding
than from spacious accommodation. Very dark, and big, and dirty, and deserted, is the judgment
we pronounce upon the houses; very filthy and malodorous each passage; very long this central
street; very few and sad and sullen the inhabitants; and where, we wonder, is the promised
inn? In search of this one walks nearly through the city, until one enters the Piazza, where
there is more liveliness. Here cafés may be found; soldiers, strong and sturdy, from the north,
lounge at the corners; the shops present more show; and a huge hotel, not bad for such a place,
and appropriately dedicated to the Belle Arti, standing in a courtyard of its own, receives
the traveller weary with his climb. As soon as he has taken rooms, his first desire is to go
forth and visit the Cathedral.

The great Duomo was erected at the end of the thirteenth century to commemorate the Miracle
of Bolsena. The value of this miracle consisted in its establishing unmistakably the truth
of transubstantiation. The story runs that a young Bohemian priest who doubted the dogma was
performing the office of the mass in a church at Bolsena, when, at the moment of consecration,
blood issued from five gashes in the wafer, which resembled the five wounds of Christ. The
fact was evident to all the worshippers, who saw blood falling on the linen of the altar; and
the young priest no longer doubted, but confessed the miracle, and journeyed straightway with
the evidence thereof to Pope Urban IV. The Pope, who was then at Orvieto, came out with all
his retinue to meet the convert and do honour to the magic-working relics. The circumstances
of this miracle are well known to students of art through Raphael's celebrated fresco in the
Stanze of the Vatican. And it will be remembered by the readers of ecclesiastical history that
Urban had in 1264 promulgated by a bull the strict observance of the Corpus Christi festival
in connection with his strong desire to re-establish the doctrine of Christ's presence in the
elements. Nor was it without reason that, while seeking miraculous support for this dogma,
he should have treated the affair of Bolsena so seriously as to celebrate it by the erection
of one of the most splendid cathedrals in Italy; for the peace of the Church had recently been
troubled by the reforming ardour of the Fraticelli and by the promulgation of Abbot Joachim's
Eternal Gospel. This new evangelist had preached the doctrine of progression in religious faith,
proclaiming a kingdom of the Spirit which should transcend the kingdom of the Son, even as
the Christian dispensation had superseded the Jewish supremacy of the Father. Nor did he fail
at the same time to attack the political and moral abuses of the Papacy, attributing its degradation
to the want of vitality which pervaded the old Christian system, and calling on the clergy
to lead more simple and regenerate lives, consistently with the spiritual doctrine which he
had received by inspiration. The theories of Joachim were immature and crude; but they were
among the first signs of that liberal effort after self-emancipation which eventually stirred
all Europe at the time of the Renaissance. It was, therefore, the obvious policy of the Popes
to crush so dangerous an opposition while they could; and by establishing the dogma of transubstantiation,
they were enabled to satisfy the craving mysticism of the people, while they placed upon a
firmer basis the cardinal support of their own religious power.

In pursuance of his plan, Urban sent for Lorenzo Maitani, the great Sienese architect, who
gave designs for a Gothic church in the same style as the Cathedral of Siena, though projected
on a smaller scale. These two churches, in spite of numerous shortcomings manifest to an eye
trained in French or English architecture, are still the most perfect specimens of Pointed
Gothic produced by the Italian genius. The Gottico Tedesco had never been received with favour
in Italy. Remains of Roman architecture, then far more numerous and perfect than they are at
present, controlled the minds of artists, and induced them to adopt the rounded rather than
the pointed arch. Indeed, there would seem to be something peculiarly Northern in the spirit
of Gothic architecture: its intricacies suit the gloom of Northern skies, its massive exterior
is adapted to the severity of Northern weather, its vast windows catch the fleeting sunlight
of the North, and the pinnacles and spires which constitute its beauty are better expressed
in rugged stone than in the marbles of the South. Northern cathedrals do not depend for their
effect upon the advantages of sunlight or picturesque situations. Many of them are built upon
broad plains, over which for more than half the year hangs fog. But the cathedrals of Italy
owe their charm to colour and brilliancy: their gilded sculpture and mosaics, the variegated
marbles and shallow portals of their façades, the light aërial elegance of their campanili,
are all adapted to the luminous atmosphere of a smiling land, where changing effects of natural
beauty distract the attention from solidity of design and permanence of grandeur in the edifice
itself.[1]

    [1] In considering why Gothic architecture took so little
    root in mediæval Italy, we must remember that the Italians
    had maintained an unbroken connection with Pagan Rome, and
    that many of their finest churches were basilicas
    appropriated to Christian rites. Add to this that the
    commerce of their cities, which first acquired wealth in
    the twelfth century, especially Pisa and Venice, kept them
    in communication with the Levant, where they admired the
    masterpieces of Byzantine architecture, and whence they
    imported Greek artists in mosaic and stonework. Against
    these external circumstances, taken in connection with the
    hereditary leanings of an essentially Latin race, and with
    the natural conditions of landscape and climate alluded to
    above, the influence of a few imported German architects
    could not have had sufficient power to effect a thorough
    metamorphosis of the national taste. For further treatment
    of this subject see my 'Fine Arts,' Renaissance in
    Italy, Part III. chap. ii.

The Cathedral of Orvieto will illustrate these remarks. Its design is very simple. It consists
of a parallelogram, from which three chapels of equal size project, one at the east end, and
one at the north and south. The windows are small and narrow, the columns round, and the roof
displays none of that intricate groining we find in English churches. The beauty of the interior
depends on surface decoration, on marble statues, woodwork, and fresco-paintings. Outside,
there is the same simplicity of design, the same elaborated local ornament. The sides of the
Cathedral are austere, their narrow windows cutting horizontal lines of black and white marble.
But the façade is a triumph of decorative art. It is strictly what has often been described
as a 'frontispiece;' for it bears no sincere relation to the construction of the building.
The three gables rise high above the aisles. The pinnacles and parapets and turrets are stuck
on to look agreeable. It is a screen such as might be completed or left unfinished at will
by the architect. Finished as it is, the façade of Orvieto presents a wilderness of beauties.
Its pure white marble has been mellowed by time to a rich golden hue, in which are set mosaics
shining like gems or pictures of enamel. A statue stands on every pinnacle; each pillar has
a different design; round some of them are woven wreaths of vine and ivy; acanthus leaves curl
over the capitals, making nests for singing birds or Cupids; the doorways are a labyrinth of
intricate designs, in which the utmost elegance of form is made more beautiful by incrustations
of precious agates and Alexandrine glasswork. On every square inch of this wonderful façade
have been lavished invention, skill, and precious material. But its chief interest centres
in the sculptures executed by Giovanni and Andrea, sons and pupils of Nicola Pisano. The names
of these three men mark an era in the history of art. They first rescued Italian sculpture
from the grotesqueness of the Lombard and the wooden monotony of the Byzantine styles. Sculpture
takes the lead of all the arts. And Nicola Pisano, before Cimabue, before Duccio, even before
Dante, opened the gates of beauty, which for a thousand years had been shut up and overgrown
with weeds. As Dante invoked the influence of Virgil when he began to write his mediæval poem,
and made a heathen bard his hierophant in Christian mysteries, just so did Nicola Pisano draw
inspiration from a Græco-Roman sarcophagus. He studied the basrelief of Phædra and Hippolytus,
which may still be seen upon the tomb of Countess Beatrice in the Campo Santo, and so learned
by heart the beauty of its lines and the dignity expressed in its figures, that in all his
subsequent works we trace the elevated tranquillity of Greek sculpture. This imitation never
degenerated into servile copying; nor, on the other hand, did Nicola attain the perfect grace
of an Athenian artist. He remained a truly mediæval carver, animated with a Christian instead
of a Pagan spirit, but caring for the loveliness of form which art in the dark ages failed
to realise.[1]

    [1] I am not inclined to reject the old legend mentioned
    above about Pisano's study of the antique. For a full
    discussion of the question see my 'Fine Arts,'
    Renaissance in Italy, Part III. chap. iii.

Whether it was Nicola or his scholars who designed the basreliefs at Orvieto is of little consequence.
Vasari ascribes them to the father; but we know that he completed his pulpit at Pisa in 1230,
and his death is supposed to have taken place fifteen years before the foundation of the cathedral.
At any rate, they are imbued with his genius, and bear the strongest affinity to his sculptures
at Pisa, Siena, and Bologna. To estimate the influence they exercised over the arts of sculpture
and painting in Italy would be a difficult task. Duccio and Giotto studied here; Ghiberti closely
followed them. Signorelli and Raphael made drawings from their compositions. And the spirit
which pervades these sculptures may be traced in all succeeding works of art. It is not classic;
it is modern, though embodied in a form of beauty modelled on the Greek.

The basreliefs are carved on four marble tablets placed beside the porches of the church, and
corresponding in size and shape with the chief doorways. They represent the course of Biblical
history, beginning with the creation of the world, and ending with the last judgment. If it
were possible here to compare them in detail with the similar designs of Ghiberti, Michel Angelo,
and Raphael, it might be shown that the Pisani established modes of treating sacred subjects
from which those mighty masters never deviated, though each stamped upon them his peculiar
genius, making them more perfect as time added to the power of art. It would also be not without
interest to show that, in their primitive conceptions of the earliest events in history, the
works of the Pisan artists closely resemble some sculptures executed on the walls of Northern
cathedrals, as well as early mosaics in the South of Italy. We might have noticed how all the
grotesque elements which appear in Nicola Pisano, and which may still be traced in Ghiberti,
are entirely lost in Michel Angelo, how the supernatural is humanised, how the symbolical receives
an actual expression, and how intellectual types are substituted for mere local and individual
representations. For instance, the Pisani represent the Creator as a young man standing on
the earth, with a benign and dignified expression, and attended by two ministering angels.
He is the Christ of the Creed, 'by whom all things were made.' In Ghiberti we find an older
man, sometimes appearing in a whirlwind of clouds and attendant spirits, sometimes walking
on the earth, but still far different in conception from the Creative Father of Michel Angelo.
The latter is rather the Platonic Demiurgus than the Mosaic God. By every line and feature
of his face and flowing hair, by each movement of his limbs, whether he ride on clouds between
the waters and the firmament, or stand alone creating by a glance and by a motion of his hand
Eve, the full-formed and conscious woman, he is proclaimed the Maker who from all eternity
has held the thought of the material universe within his mind. Raphael does not depart from
this conception. The profound abstraction of Michel Angelo ruled his intellect, and received
from his genius a form of perhaps greater grace. A similar growth from the germinal designs
of the Pisani may be traced in many groups.

But we must not linger at the gate. Let us enter the cathedral and see some of the wonders
it contains. Statues of gigantic size adorn the nave. Of these, the most beautiful 151 are
the work of Ippolito Scalza, an artist whom Orvieto claims with pride as one of her own sons.
The long line of saints and apostles whom they represent conduct us to the high altar, surrounded
by its shadowy frescoes, and gleaming with the work of carvers in marble and bronze and precious
metals. But our steps are drawn toward the chapel of the south transept, where now a golden
light from the autumnal sunset falls across a crowd of worshippers. From far and near the poor
people are gathered. Most of them are women. They kneel upon the pavement and the benches,
sunburnt faces from the vineyards and the canebrakes of the valley. The old look prematurely
aged and withered--their wrinkled cheeks bound up in scarlet and orange-coloured kerchiefs,
their skinny fingers fumbling on the rosary, and their mute lips moving in prayer. The younger
women have great listless eyes and large limbs used to labor. Some of them carry babies trussed
up in tight swaddling-clothes. One kneels beside a dark-browed shepherd, on whose shoulder
falls his shaggy hair; and little children play about, half hushed, half heedless of the place,
among old men whose life has dwindled down into a ceaseless round of prayers. We wonder why
this chapel, alone in the empty cathedral, is so crowded with worshippers. They surely are
not turned towards that splendid Pietà of Scalza--a work in which the marble seems to live
a cold, dead, shivering life. They do not heed Angelico's and Signorelli's frescoes on the
roof and walls. The interchange of light and gloom upon the stalls and carved work of the canopies
can scarcely rivet so intense a gaze. All eyes seem fixed upon a curtain of red silk above
the altar. Votive pictures, and glass cases full of silver hearts, wax babies, hands and limbs
of every kind, are hung round it. A bell rings. A jingling organ plays a little melody in triple
time; and from the sacristy comes forth the priest. With much reverence, and with a show of
preparation, he and the acolytes around him mount the altar steps and pull a string which draws
the curtain. Behind the silken veil we behold Madonna and her child--a faint, old, ugly picture,
blackened with the smoke and incense of five hundred years, a wonder-working image, cased in
gold, and guarded from the common air by glass and draperies. Jewelled crowns are stuck upon
the heads of the mother and the infant. In the efficacy of Madonna di San Brizio to ward off
agues, to deliver from the pangs of childbirth or the fury of the storm, to keep the lover's
troth and make the husband faithful to his home, these pious women of the marshes and the mountains
put a simple trust.

While the priest sings, and the people pray to the dance-music of the organ, let us take a
quiet seat unseen, and picture to our minds how the chapel looked when Angelico and Signorelli
stood before its plastered walls, and thought the thoughts with which they covered them. Four
centuries have gone by since those walls were white and even to their brushes; and now you
scarce can see the golden aureoles of saints, the vast wings of the angels, and the flowing
robes of prophets through the gloom. Angelico came first, in monk's dress, kneeling before
he climbed the scaffold to paint the angry judge, the Virgin crowned, the white-robed army
of the Martyrs, and the glorious company of the Apostles. These he placed upon the roof, expectant
of the Judgment. Then he passed away, and Luca Signorelli, the rich man who 'lived splendidly
and loved to dress himself in noble clothes,' the liberal and courteous gentleman, took his
place upon the scaffold. For all the worldliness of his attire and the worldliness of his living,
his brain teemed with stern and terrible thoughts. He searched the secrets of sin and of the
grave, of destruction and of resurrection, of heaven and hell. All these he has painted on
the walls beneath the saints of Fra Angelico. First come the troubles of the last days, the
preaching of Antichrist, and the confusion of the wicked. In the next compartment we see the
Resurrection from the tomb; and side by side with that is painted Hell. Paradise occupies another
portion of the chapel. On each side of the window, beneath the Christ of Fra Angelico, are
delineated scenes from the Judgment. A wilderness of arabesques, enclosing medallion portraits
of poets and chiaroscuro episodes selected from Dante and Ovid, occupies the lower portions
of the chapel walls beneath the great subjects enumerated above; and here Signorelli has given
free vein to his fancy and his mastery over anatomical design, accumulating naked human figures
in the most fantastic and audacious variety of pose.

Look at the 'Fulminati'--so the group of wicked men are called whose death precedes the Judgment.
Huge naked angels, sailing upon vanlike wings, breathe columns of red flame upon a crowd of
wicked men and women. In vain these sinners avoid the descending fire. It pursues and fells
them to the earth. As they fly, their eyes are turned towards the dreadful faces in the air.
Some hurry through a portico, huddled together, falling men, and women clasping to their arms
dead babies scorched with flame. One old man stares straightforward, doggedly awaiting death.
One woman scowls defiance as she dies. A youth has twisted both hands in his hair, and presses
them against his ears to drown the screams and groans and roaring thunder. They trample upon
prostrate forms already stiff. Every shape and attitude of sudden terror and despairing guilt
are here. Next comes the Resurrection. Two angels of the Judgment--gigantic figures, with the
plumeless wings that Signorelli loves--are seen upon the clouds. They blow trumpets with all
their might, so that each naked muscle seems strained to make the blast, which bellows through
the air and shakes the sepulchres beneath the earth. Thence rise the dead. All are naked, and
a few are seen like skeletons. With painful effort they struggle from the soil that clasps
them round, as if obeying an irresistible command. Some have their heads alone above the ground.
Others wrench their limbs from the clinging earth; and as each man rises, it closes under him.
One would think that they were being born again from solid clay, and growing into form with
labour. The fully risen spirits stand and walk about, all occupied with the expectation of
the Judgment; but those that are yet in the act of rising, have no thought but for the strange
and toilsome process of this second birth. Signorelli here, as elsewhere, proves himself one
of the greatest painters by the simple means with which he produces the most marvellous effects.
His composition sways our souls with all the passion of the terrible scenes that he depicts.
Yet what does it contain? Two stern angels on the clouds, a blank grey plain, and a multitude
of naked men and women. In the next compartment Hell is painted. This is a complicated picture,
consisting of a mass of human beings entangled with torturing fiends. Above hover demons bearing
damned spirits, and three angels see that justice takes its course. Signorelli here degenerates
into no mediæval ugliness and mere barbarity of form. His fiends are not the bestial creatures
of Pisano's basreliefs, but models of those monsters which Duppa has engraved from Michel Angelo's
'Last Judgment'--lean naked men, in whose hollow eyes glow the fires of hate and despair, whose
nails have grown to claws, and from whose ears have started horns. They sail upon bats' wings;
and only by their livid hue, which changes from yellow to the ghastliest green, and by the
cruelty of their remorseless eyes, can you know them from the souls they torture. In Hell ugliness
and power of mischief come with length of years. Continual growth in crime distorts the form
which once was human; and the interchange of everlasting hatred degrades the tormentor and
his victim to the same demoniac ferocity. To this design the science of foreshortening, and
the profound knowledge of the human form in every posture, give its chief interest. Paradise
is not less wonderful. Signorelli has contrived to throw variety and grace into the somewhat
monotonous groups which this subject requires. Above are choirs of angels, not like Fra Angelico's,
but tall male creatures clothed in voluminous drapery, with grave features and still, solemn
eyes. Some are dancing, some are singing to the lute, and one, the most gracious of them all,
bends down to aid a suppliant soul. The men beneath, who listen in a state of bliss, are all
undraped. Signorelli, in this difficult composition, remains temperate, serene, and simple;
a Miltonic harmony pervades the movement of his angelic choirs. Their beauty is the product
of their strength and virtue. No floral ornaments or cherubs, or soft clouds, are found in
his Paradise; yet it is fair and full of grace. Here Luca seems to have anticipated Raphael.

It may be parenthetically observed, that Signorelli has introduced himself and Niccolo Angeli,
treasurer of the cathedral building fund, in the corner of the fresco representing Antichrist,
with the date 1503. They stand as spectators and solemn witnesses of the tragedy, set forth
in all its acts by the great master.

After viewing these frescoes, we muse and ask ourselves why Signorelli's fame is so inadequate
to his deserts? Partly, no doubt, because he painted in obscure Italian towns, and left few
easel-pictures.[1] Besides, the artists of the sixteenth century eclipsed all their predecessors,
and the name of Signorelli has been swallowed up in that of Michel Angelo. Vasari said that
'esso Michel Angelo imitò l'andar di Luca, come può vedere ognuno.' Nor is it hard to see that
what the one began at Orvieto the other completed in the Vatican. These great men had truly
kindred spirits. Both struggled to express their intellectual conceptions in the simplest and
most abstract forms. The works of both are distinguished by contempt for adventitious ornaments
and for the grace of positive colour. Both chose to work in fresco, and selected subjects of
the gravest and most elevated character. The study of anatomy, and the scientific drawing of
the naked body, which Luca practised, were carried to perfection by Michel Angelo. Sublimity
of thought and self-restraint pervade their compositions. He who would understand Buonarroti
must first appreciate Signorelli. The latter, it is true, was confined to a narrower circle
in his study of the beautiful and the sublime. He had not ascended to that pure idealism, superior
to all the accidents of place and time, which is the chief distinction of Michel Angelo's work.
At the same time, his manner had not suffered from too fervid an enthusiasm for the imperfectly
comprehended antique. He painted the life he saw around him, and clothed his men and women
in the dress of Italy.

    [1] The Uffizzi and Pitti Galleries at Florence contain
    one or two fine specimens of Luca Signorelli's Holy
    Families, which show his influence over the early manner
    of Michel Angelo. Into the background of one circular
    picture he has introduced a group of naked figures, which
    was imitated by Buonarroti in the Holy Family of the
    Tribune. The Accademia has also a picture of saints and
    angels illustrative of his large style and crowded
    composition. The Brera at Milan can boast of a very
    characteristic Flagellation, where the nude has been
    carefully studied, and the brutality of an insolent
    officer is forcibly represented. But perhaps the most
    interesting of his works out of Orvieto are those in his
    native place, Cortona. In the Church of the Gesù in that
    town there is an altar-piece representing Madonna in glory
    with saints, which also contains on a smaller scale than
    the principal figures a little design of the Temptation in
    Eden. You recognise the master's individuality in the
    muscular and energetic Adam. The Duomo has a Communion of
    the Apostles which shows Signorelli's independence of
    tradition. It is the Cenacolo treated with freedom. Christ
    stands in the midst of the twelve, who are gathered around
    him, some kneeling and some upright, upon a marble
    pavement. The whole scene is conceived in a truly grand
    style--noble attitudes, broad draperies, sombre and rich
    colouring, masculine massing of the figures in effective
    groups. The Christ is especially noble. Swaying a little
    to the right, he gives the bread to a kneeling apostle.
    The composition is marked by a dignity and self-restraint
    which Raphael might have envied. San Niccolo, again, has a
    fine picture by this master. It is a Deposition with
    saints and angels--those large-limbed and wide-winged
    messengers of God whom none but Signorelli realised. The
    composition of this picture is hazardous, and at first
    sight it is even displeasing. The figures seem roughly
    scattered in a vacant space. The dead Christ has but
    little dignity, and the passion of S. Jerome in the
    foreground is stiff in spite of its exaggeration. But long
    study only serves to render this strange picture more and
    more attractive. Especially noticeable is the youthful
    angel clad in dark green who sustains Christ. He is a
    young man in the bloom of strength and beauty, whose long
    golden hair falls on each side of a sublimely lovely face.
    Nothing in painting surpasses the modelling of the
    vigorous but delicate left arm stretched forward to
    support the heavy corpse. This figure is conceived and
    executed in a style worthy of the Orvietan frescoes.
    Signorelli, for whose imagination angels had a special
    charm, has shown here that his too frequent contempt for
    grace was not the result of insensibility to beauty.
    Strength is the parent of sweetness in this wonderful
    winged youth. But not a single sacrifice is made in the
    whole picture to mere elegance.--Cortona is a place which,
    independently of Signorelli, well deserves a visit. Like
    all Etruscan towns, it is perched on the top of a high
    hill, whence it commands a wonderful stretch of
    landscape--Monte Amiata and Montepulciano to the south,
    Chiusi with its lake, the lake of Thrasymene, and the
    whole broad Tuscan plain. The city itself is built on a
    projecting buttress of the mountain, to which it clings so
    closely that, in climbing to the terrace of S. Margarita,
    you lose sight of all but a few towers and house-roofs.
    One can almost fancy that Signorelli gained his broad and
    austere style from the habitual contemplation of a view so
    severe in outline, and so vacant in its width. This
    landscape has none of the variety which distinguishes the
    prospect from Perugia, none of the suavity of Siena. It is
    truly sympathetic in its bare simplicity to the style of
    the great painter of Cortona. Try to see it on a winter
    morning, when the mists are lying white and low and thin
    upon the plain, when distant hills rise islanded into the
    air, and the outlines of lakes are just discernible
    through fleecy haze.--Next to Cortona in importance is the
    Convent of Monte Oliveto in the neighbourhood of Siena,
    where Signorelli painted eight frescoes from the story of
    S. Benedict, distinguished by his customary vigour of
    conception, masculine force of design, and martial
    splendour in athletic disdainful young men. One scene in
    this series, representing the interior of a country inn,
    is specially interesting for a realism not usual in the
    work of Signorelli. The frescoes painted for Petruccio at
    Siena, one of which is now in the National Gallery, the
    fresco in the Sistine Chapel, which has suffered sadly
    from retouching, and the magnificent classical picture
    called the 'School of Pan,' executed for Lorenzo de'
    Medici, and now at Berlin, must not be forgotten, nor yet
    the church-pictures scattered over Loreto, Arcevia, Città
    di Castello, Borgo San Sepolcro, Volterra, and other
    cities of the Tuscan-Umbrian district. Arezzo, it may be
    added in conclusion, has two altar-pieces of Signorelli's
    in its Pinacoteca, neither of which adds much to our
    conception of this painter's style. Noticeable as they may
    be among the works of that period, they prove that his
    genius was hampered by the narrow and traditional
    treatment imposed on him in pictures of this kind.
    Students may be referred to Robert Vischer's Luca
    Signorelli (Leipzig, 1879) for a complete list of the
    master's works and an exhaustive biography. I have tried
    to estimate his place in the history of Italian art in my
    volume on the 'Fine Arts,' Renaissance in Italy, Part
    III. I may also mention two able articles by Professor
    Colvin published a few years since in the Cornhill
    Magazine.

Such reflections, and many more, pass through our mind as we sit and ponder in the chapel,
which the daylight has deserted. The country people are still on their knees, still careless
of the frescoed forms around them, still praying to Madonna of the Miracles. The service is
well-nigh done. The benediction has been given, the organist strikes up his air of Verdi, and
the congregation shuffles off, leaving the dimly lighted chapel for the vast sonorous dusky
nave. How strange it is to hear that faint strain of a feeble opera sounding where, a short
while since, the trumpet-blast of Signorelli's angels seemed to thrill our ears!

LUCRETIUS

In seeking to distinguish the Roman from the Greek genius we can find no surer guide than Virgil's
famous lines in the Sixth Æneid. Virgil lived to combine the traditions of both races in a
work of profoundly meditated art, and to their points of divergence he was sensitive as none
but a poet bent upon resolving them could be. The real greatness of the Romans consisted in
their capacity for government, law, practical administration. What they willed, they carried
into effect with an iron indifference to everything but the object in view. What they acquired,
they held with the firm grasp of force, and by the might of organised authority. Their architecture,
in so far as it was original, subserved purposes of public utility. Philosophy with them ceased
to be speculative, and applied itself to the ethics of conduct. Their religious conceptions--in
so far as these were not adopted together with general culture from the Greeks, or together
with sensual mysticism from the East--were practical abstractions. The Latin ideal was to give
form to the state by legislation, and to mould the citizen by moral discipline. The Greek ideal
was contained in the poetry of Homer, the sculpture of Pheidias, the heroism of Harmodius,
the philosophy of Socrates. Hellas was held together by no system, but by the Delphic oracle
and the Olympian games. The Greeks depended upon culture, as the Romans upon law. The national
character determined by culture, and that determined by discipline, eventually broke down:
but the ruin in either case was different. The Greek became servile, indolent, and slippery;
the Roman became arrogant, bloodthirsty, tyrannous, and brutal. The Greeks in their best days
attained to [Greek: sôphrosynê], their regulative virtue, by a kind of instinct; and even in
their worst debasement they never exhibited the extravagance of lust and cruelty and pompous
prodigality displayed by Rome. The Romans, deficient in the æsthetic instinct, whether applied
to morals or to art, were temperate upon compulsion; and when the strain of law relaxed, they
gave themselves unchecked to profligacy. The bad taste of the Romans made them aspire to the
huge and monstrous. Nero's whim to cut through the isthmus, Caligula's villa built upon the
sea at Baiæ, the acres covered by imperial palaces in Rome, are as Latin as the small scale
of the Parthenon is Greek. Athens annihilates our notions of mere magnitude by the predominance
of harmony and beauty, to which size is irrelevant. Rome dilates them to the full: it is the
colossal greatness, the mechanical pride, of her monuments that win our admiration. By comparing
the Dionysian theatre at Athens, during a representation of the 'Antigone,' with the Flavian
amphitheatre at Rome, while the gladiators sang their Ave Cæsar! we gain at once a measure
for the differences between Greek and Latin taste. In spiritual matters, again, Rome, as distinguished
from Hellas, was omnivorous. The cosmopolitan receptivity of Roman sympathies, absorbing Egypt
and the Orient wholesale, is as characteristic as the exclusiveness of the Greeks, their sensitive
anxiety about the [Greek: êthos]. We feel that it was in a Roman rather than a Greek atmosphere,
where no middle term of art existed like a neutral ground between the moral law and sin, where
no delicate intellectual sensibilities interfered with the assimilation of new creeds, that
Christianity was destined to strike root and flourish.

These remarks, familiar to students, form a proper prelude to the criticism of Lucretius: for
in Lucretius the Roman character found its most perfect literary incarnation. He is at all
points a true Roman, gifted with the strength, the conquering temper, the uncompromising haughtiness,
and the large scale of his race. Holding, as it were, the thought of Greece in fee, he administers
the Epicurean philosophy as though it were a province, marshalling his arguments like legionaries,
and spanning the chasms of speculative insecurity with the masonry of hypotheses. As the arches
of the Pont du Gard, suspended in their power amid that solitude, produce an overmastering
feeling of awe; so the huge fabric of the Lucretian system, hung across the void of Nihilism,
inspires a sense of terror, not so much on its own account as for the Roman sternness of the
mind that made it. This is what we feel in pacing the corridors of the Lucretian poem. Sometimes
it seems like walking through resounding caves of night and death, where unseen cataracts keep
plunging down uncertain depths, and winds 'thwarted and forlorn' swell from an unknown distance,
and rush by, and wail themselves to silence in the unexplored beyond. At another time the impression
left upon the memory is different. We have been following a Roman road from the gate of the
Eternal City, through field and vineyard, by lake and river-bed, across the broad intolerable
plain and the barren tops of Alps, down into forests where wild beasts and barbarian tribes
wander, along the marge of Rhine or Elbe, and over frozen fens, in one perpetual straight line,
until the sea is reached and the road ends because it can go no further. All the while, the
iron wheel-rims of our chariot have jarred upon imperishable paved work; there has been no
stop nor stay; the visions of things beautiful and strange and tedious have flown past; at
the climax we look forth across a waste of waves and tumbling wilderness of surf and foam,
where the storm sweeps and hurrying mists drive eastward close above our heads. The want of
any respite, breathing-space, or intermission in the poem, helps to force this image of a Roman
journey on our mind. From the first line to the last there is no turning-point, no pause of
thought, scarcely a comma, and the whole breaks off:--

  rixantes potius quam corpora desererentur:

as though a scythe-sweep from the arm of Death had cut the thread of singing short.

Is, then, this poem truly song? Indeed it is.

It is only because, being so much a Roman, he insists on moving ever onward with unwavering
march, that Lucretius is often wearisome and rough. He is too disdainful to care to mould the
whole stuff of his poem to one quality. He is too truth-loving to condescend to rhetoric. The
scoriæ, the grit, the dross, the quartz, the gold, the jewels of his thought are hurried onward
in one mighty lava-flood, that has the force to bear them all with equal ease--not altogether
unlike that hurling torrent of the world painted by Tintoretto in his picture of the Last Day,
which carries on its breast cities and forests and men with all their works, to plunge them
in a bottomless abyss.

Poems of the perfect Hellenic type may be compared to bronze statues, in the material of which
many divers metals have been fused. Silver and tin and copper and lead and gold are there:
each substance adds a quality to the mass; yet the whole is bronze. The furnace of the poet's
will has so melted and mingled all these ores, that they have run together and filled the mould
of his imagination. It is thus that Virgil chose to work. He made it his glory to realise artistic
harmony, and to preserve a Greek balance in his style. Not so Lucretius. In him the Roman spirit,
disdainful, uncompromising, and forceful, had full sway. We can fancy him accosting the Greek
masters of the lyre upon Parnassus, deferring to none, conceding nought, and meeting their
arguments with proud indifference:--

  tu regere imperio populos Romane memento.

The Roman poet, swaying the people of his thoughts, will stoop to no persuasion, adopt no middle
course. It is not his business to please, but to command; he will not wait upon the [Greek:
kairos], or court opportunity; Greeks may surprise the Muses in relenting moods, and seek out
'mollia tempora fandi;' all times and seasons must serve him; the terrible, the discordant,
the sublime, and the magnificent shall drag his thundering car-wheels, as he lists, along the
road of thought.

At the very outset of the poem we feel ourselves within the grasp of the Roman imagination.
It is no Aphrodite, risen from the waves and white as the sea-foam, that he invokes:--

  Æneadum genetrix, hominum divomque voluptas,
  alma Venus.

This Venus is the mother of the brood of Rome, and at the same time an abstraction as wide
as the universe. See her in the arms of Mavors:--

                 in gremium qui sæpe tuum se
  reicit æterno devictus volnere amoris,
  atque ita suspiciens tereti cervice reposta
  pascit amore avidos inhians in te, dea, visus,
  eque tuo pendet resupini spiritus ore.
  hunc tu, diva, tuo recubantem corpore sancto
  circumfusa super, suavis ex ore loquelas
  funde petens placidam Romanis, incluta, pacem.

In the whole Lucretian treatment of love there is nothing really Greek. We do not hear of Eros,
either as the mystic mania of Plato, or as the winged boy of Meleager. Love in Lucretius is
something deeper, larger, and more elemental than the Greeks conceived; a fierce and overmastering
force, a natural impulse which men share in common with the world of things.[1] Both the pleasures
and the pains of love are conceived on a gigantic scale, and described with an irony that has
the growl of a roused lion mingled with its laughter:--

  ulcus enim vivescit et inveterascit alendo
  inque dies gliscit furor atque aerumna gravescit.

The acts of love and the insanities of passion are viewed from no standpoint of sentiment or
soft emotion, but always in relation to philosophical ideas, or as the manifestation of something
terrible in human life. Yet they lose nothing thereby in the voluptuous impression left upon
the fancy:--

  sic in amore Venus simulacris ludit amantis,
  nec satiare queunt spectando corpora coram
  nec manibus quicquam teneris abradere membris
  possunt errantes incerti corpore toto.
  denique cum membris conlatis flore fruuntur
  ætatis, iam cum præsagit gaudia corpus
  atque in eost Venus ut muliebria conserat arva,
  adfigunt avide corpus iunguntque salivas
  oris et inspirant pressantes dentibus ora,
  nequiquam, quoniam nil inde abradere possunt
  nec penetrare et abire in corpus corpore toto.

The master-word in this passage is nequiquam. 'To desire the impossible,' says the Greek proverb,
'is a disease of the soul.' Lucretius, who treats of physical desire as a torment, asserts
the impossibility of its perfect satisfaction. There is something almost tragic in these sighs
and pantings and pleasure-throes, and incomplete fruitions of souls pent up within their frames
of flesh. We seem to see a race of men and women such as have never lived, except perhaps in
Rome or in the thought of Michel Angelo,[2] meeting in leonine embracements that yield pain,
whereof the climax is, at best, relief from rage and respite for a moment from consuming fire.
There is a life dæmonic rather than human in those mighty limbs; and the passion that bends
them on the marriage bed has in it the stress of storms, the rampings and the roarings of leopards
at play. Or, take again this single line:--

  et Venus in silvis iungebat corpora amantum.

What a picture of primeval breadth and vastness! The vice égrillard of Voltaire, the coarse
animalism of Rabelais, even the large comic sexuality of Aristophanes, are in another region:
for the forest is the world, and the bodies of the lovers are things natural and unashamed,
and Venus is the tyrannous instinct that controls the blood in spring. Only a Roman poet could
have conceived of passion so mightily and so impersonally, expanding its sensuality to suit
the scale of Titanic existences, and purging from it both sentiment and spirituality as well
as all that makes it mean.

    [1] A fragment preserved from the Danaides of Æschylus
    has the thought of Aphrodite as the mistress of love in
    earth and sky and sea and cloud; and this idea finds a
    philosophical expression in Empedocles. But the tone of
    these Greek poets is as different from that of Lucretius
    as a Greek Hera is from a Roman Juno.

    [2] See, for instance, his meeting of Ixion with the
    phantom of Juno, or his design for Leda and the Swan.

In like manner, the Lucretian conception of Ennui is wholly Roman:--

  Si possent homines, proinde ac sentire videntur
  pondus inesse animo quod se gravitate fatiget,
  e quibus id fiat causis quoque noscere et unde
  tanta mali tamquam moles in pectore constet,
  haut ita vitam agerent, ut nunc plerumque videmus
  quid sibi quisque velit nescire et quærere semper
  commutare locum quasi onus deponere possit.
  exit sæpe foras magnis ex ædibus ille,
  esse domi quem pertæsumst, subitoque revertit,
  quippe foris nilo melius qui sentiat esse.
  currit agens mannos ad villam præcipitanter,
  auxilium tectis quasi ferre ardentibus instans;
  oscitat extemplo, tetigit cum limina villæ,
  aut abit in somnum gravis atque oblivia quærit,
  aut etiam properans urbem petit atque revisit,
  hoc se quisque modo fugit (at quem scilicet, ut fit,
  effugere haut potis est, ingratis hæret) et odit
  propterea, morbi quia causam non tenet æger;
  quam bene si videat, iam rebus quisque relictis
  naturam primum studeat cognoscere rerum,
  temporis æterni quoniam, non unius horæ,
  ambigitur status, in quo sit mortalibus omnis
  ætas, post mortem quæ restat cumque manenda.

Virgil would not have written these lines. A Greek poet could not have conceived them: unless
we imagine to ourselves what Æschylus or Pindar, oppressed by long illness, and forgetful of
the gods, might possibly have felt. In its sense of spiritual vacancy, when the world and all
its uses have become flat, stale, unprofitable, and the sentient soul oscillates like a pendulum
between weariful extremes, seeking repose in restless movement, and hurling the ruins of a
life into the gulf of its exhausted cravings, we perceive already the symptoms of that unnamed
malady which was the plague of imperial Rome. The tyrants and the suicides of the Empire expand
before our eyes a pageant of their lassitude, relieved in vain by festivals of blood and orgies
of unutterable lust. It is not that ennui was a specially Roman disease. Under certain conditions
it is sure to afflict all overtaxed civilisation; and for the modern world no one has expressed
its nature better than the slight and feminine De Musset.[1] Indeed, the Latin language has
no one phrase denoting Ennui;--livor and fastidium, and even tædium vitæ, meaning something
more specific and less all-pervasive as a moral agency. This in itself is significant, since
it shows the unconsciousness of the race at large, and renders the intuition of Lucretius all
the more remarkable. But in Rome there were the conditions favourable to its development--imperfect
culture, vehement passions unabsorbed by commerce or by political life, the habituation to
extravagant excitement in war and in the circus, and the fermentation of an age foredestined
to give birth to new religious creeds. When the infinite but ill-assured power of the Empire
was conferred on semi-madmen, Ennui in Rome assumed colossal proportions. Its victims sought
for palliatives in cruelty and crime elsewhere unknown, except perhaps in Oriental courts.
Lucretius, in the last days of the Republic, had discovered its deep significance for human
nature. To all the pictures of Tacitus it forms a solemn tragic background, enhancing, as it
were, by spiritual gloom the carnival of passions which gleam so brilliantly upon his canvas.
In the person of Caligula, Ennui sat supreme upon the throne of the terraqueous globe. The
insane desires and the fantastic deeds of the autocrat who wished one head for humanity that
he might cut it off, sufficiently reveal the extent to which his spirit had been gangrened
by this ulcer. There is a simple paragraph in Suetonius which lifts the veil from his imperial
unrest more ruthlessly than any legend:--'Incitabatur insomniis maxime; neque enim plus tribus
horis nocturnis quiescebat, ac ne his quidem placidâ quiete, at pavidâ, miris rerum imaginibus
... ideoque magnâ parte noctis, vigiliæ cubandique tædio, nunc toro residens, nunc per longissimas
porticus vagus, invocare identidem atque expectare lucem consueverat.' This is the very picture
of Ennui that has become mortal disease. Nor was Nero different. 'Néron,' says Victor Hugo,
'cherche tout simplement une distraction. Poëte, comédien, chanteur, cocher, épuisant la férocité
pour trouver la volupté, essayant le changement de sexe, époux de l'eunuque Sporus et épouse
de l'esclave Pythagore, et se promenant dans les rues de Rome entre sa femme et son mari; ayant
deux plaisirs: voir le peuple se jeter sur les pièces d'or, les diamants et les perles, et
voir les lions se jeter sur le peuple; incendiaire par curiosité et parricide par désoeuvrement.'
Nor need we stop at Nero. Over Vitellius at his banquets, over Hadrian in his Tiburtine villa
calling in vain on Death, over Commodus in the arena, and Heliogabalus among the rose-leaves,
the same livid shadow of imperial Ennui hangs. We can even see it looming behind the noble
form of Marcus Aurelius, who, amid the ruins of empire and the revolutions of belief, penned
in his tent among the Quadi those maxims of endurance which were powerless to regenerate the world.

    [1] See the prelude to Les Confessions d'un Enfant du
    Siècle and Les Nuits.

Roman again, in the true sense of the word, is the Lucretian philosophy of Conscience. Christianity
has claimed the celebrated imprecation of Persius upon tyrants for her own, as though to her
alone belonged the secret of the soul-tormenting sense of guilt. Yet it is certain that we
owe to the Romans that conception of sin bearing its own fruit of torment which the Latin Fathers--Augustine
and Tertullian--imposed with such terrific force upon the mediæval consciousness. There is
no need to conclude that Persius was a Christian because he wrote--

  Magne pater divum, sævos punire tyrannos, etc.,

when we know that he had before his eyes that passage in the third book of the 'De Rerum Naturâ,'
(978-1023) which reduces the myths of Tityos and Sisyphus and Cerberus and the Furies to facts
of the human soul:--

  sed metus in vita poenarum pro male factis
  est insignibus insignis, scelerisque luella,
  carcer et horribilis de saxo iactu' deorsum,
  verbera carnifices robur pix lammina tædæ;
  quæ tamen etsi absunt, at mens sibi conscia facti
  præmetuens adhibet stimulos terretque flagellis
  nec videt interea qui terminus esse malorum
  possit nec quæ sit poenarum denique finis
  atque eadem metuit magis hæc ne in morte gravescant.

The Greeks, by personifying those secret terrors, had removed them into a region of existences
separate from man. They became dread goddesses, who might to some extent be propitiated by
exorcisms or expiatory rites. This was in strict accordance with the mythopoeic and artistic
quality of the Greek intellect. The stern and somewhat prosaic rectitude of the Roman broke
through such figments of the fancy, and exposed the sore places of the soul itself. The theory
of the Conscience, moreover, is part of the Lucretian polemic against false notions of the
gods and the pernicious belief in hell.

Positivism and Realism were qualities of Roman as distinguished from Greek culture. There was
no self-delusion in Lucretius--no attempt, however unconscious, to compromise unpalatable truth,
or to invest philosophy with the charm of myth. A hundred illustrations might be chosen to
prove his method of setting forth thought with unadorned simplicity. These, however, are familiar
to any one who has but opened the 'De Rerum Naturâ.' It is more profitable to trace this Roman
ruggedness in the poet's treatment of the subject which more than any other seems to have preoccupied
his intellect and fascinated his imagination--that is Death. His poem has been called by a
great critic the 'poem of Death.' Shakspere's line--

  And Death once dead, there's no more dying then,

might be written as a motto on the title-page of the book, which is full of passages like this:--

  scire licet nobis nil esse in morte timendum
  nec miserum fieri qui non est posse neque hilum
  differre anne ullo fuerit iam tempore natus,
  mortalem vitam mors cum immortalis ademit.

His whole mind was steeped in the thought of death; and though he can hardly be said to have
written 'the words that shall make death exhilarating,' he devoted his genius, in all its energy,
to removing from before men the terror of the doom that waits for all. Sometimes, in his attempt
at consolation, he adduces images which, like the Delphian knife, are double-handled, and cut
both ways:--

  hinc indignatur se mortalem esse creatum
  nec videt in vera nullum fore morte alium se
  qui possit vivus sibi se lugere peremptum
  stansque iacentem se lacerari urive dolere.

This suggests, by way of contrast, Blake's picture of the soul that has just left the body
and laments her separation. As we read, we are inclined to lay the book down, and wonder whether
the argument is, after all, conclusive. May not the spirit, when she has quitted her old house,
be forced to weep and wring her hands, and stretch vain shadowy arms to the limbs that were
so dear? No one has felt more profoundly than Lucretius the pathos of the dead. The intensity
with which he realised what we must lose in dying and what we leave behind of grief to those
who loved us, reaches a climax of restrained passion in this well-known paragraph:--

  'iam iam non domus accipiet te læta, neque uxor
  optima nec dulces occurrent oscula nati
  præripere et tacita pectus dulcedine tangent.
  non poteris factis florentibus esse, tuisque
  præsidium. misero misere' aiunt 'omnia ademit
  una dies infesta tibi tot præmia vitæ.'
  illud in his rebus non addunt 'nec tibi earum
  iam desiderium rerum super insidet una.'
  quod bene si videant animo dictisque sequantur,
  dissoluant animi magno se angore metuque.
  'tu quidem ut es leto sopitus, sic eris ævi
  quod superest cunctis privatu' doloribus ægris.
  at nos horrifico cinefactum te prope busto
  insatiabiliter deflevimus, æternumque
  nulla dies nobis mærorem e pectore demet.'

Images, again, of almost mediæval grotesqueness, rise in his mind when he contemplates the
universality of Death. Simonides had dared to say: 'One horrible Charybdis waits for all.'
That was as near a discord as a Greek could venture on. Lucretius describes the open gate and
'huge wide-gaping maw' which must devour heaven, earth, and sea, and all that they contain:--

  haut igitur leti præclusa est ianua cælo
  nec soli terræque neque altis æquoris undis,
  sed patet immani et vasto respectat hiatu.

The ever-during battle of life and death haunts his imagination. Sometimes he sets it forth
in philosophical array of argument. Sometimes he touches on the theme with elegiac pity:--

                          miscetur funere vagor
  quem pueri tollunt visentis luminis oras;
  nec nox ulla diem neque noctem aurora secutast
  quæ non audierit mixtos vagitibus ægris
  ploratus mortis comites et funeris atri.

Then again he returns, with obstinate persistence, to describe how the dread of death, fortified
by false religion, hangs like a pall over humanity, and how the whole world is a cemetery overshadowed
by cypresses. The most sustained, perhaps, of these passages is at the beginning of the third
book (lines 31 to 93). The most profoundly melancholy is the description of the new-born child
(v. 221):--

               quare mors immatura vagatur?
  tum porro puer, ut sævis proiectus ab undis
  navita, nudus humi iacet, infans, indigus omni
  vitali auxilio, cum primum in luminis oras
  nixibus ex alvo matris natura profudit,
  vagituque locum lugubri complet, ut æcumst
  cui tantum in vita restet transire malorum.

Disease and old age, as akin to Death, touch his imagination with the same force. He rarely
alludes to either without some lines as terrible as these (iii. 472, 453):--

  nam dolor ac morbus leti fabricator uterquest.
  claudicat ingenium, delirat lingua, labat mens.

Another kindred subject affects him with an equal pathos. He sees the rising and decay of nations,
age following after age, like waves hurrying to dissolve upon a barren shore, and writes (ii.
75):--

                    sic rerum summa novatur
  semper, et inter se mortales mutua vivunt,
  augescunt aliæ gentes, aliæ minuuntur,
  inque brevi spatio mutantur sæcla animantum
  et quasi cursores vitai lampada tradunt.

Although the theme is really the procession of life through countless generations, it obtains
a tone of sadness from the sense of intervenient decay and change. No Greek had the heart thus
to dilate his imagination with the very element of death. What the Greeks commemorated when
they spoke of Death was the loss of the lyre and the hymeneal chaunt, and the passage across
dim waves to a sunless land. Nor indeed does Lucretius, like the modern poet of Democracy,
ascend into the regions of ecstatic trance:--

  Lost in the loving, floating ocean of thee,
  Laved in the flood of thy bliss, O Death.

He keeps his reason cool, and sternly contemplates the thought of the annihilation which awaits
all perishable combinations of eternal things. Like Milton, Lucretius delights in giving the
life of his imagination to abstractions. Time, with his retinue of ages, sweeps before his
vision, and he broods in fancy over the illimitable ocean of the universe. The fascination
of the infinite is the quality which, more than any other, separates Lucretius as a Roman poet
from the Greeks.

Another distinctive feature of his poetry Lucretius inherited as part of his birthright. This
is the sense of Roman greatness. It pervades the poem, and may be felt in every part; although
to Athens, and the Greek sages, Democritus, Empedocles, Anaxagoras, Heraclitus, and Epicurus,
as the fountain-heads of soul-delivering culture, he reserves his most magnificent periods
of panegyric. Yet when he would fain persuade his readers that the fear of death is nugatory,
and that the future will be to them even as the past, it is the shock of Rome with Carthage
that he dwells upon as the critical event of the world's history (iii. 830):--

    Nil igitur mors est ad nos neque pertinet hilum,
  quandoquidem natura animi mortalis habetur.
  et velut anteacto nil tempore sensimus ægri,
  ad confligendum venientibus undique Poenis,
  omnia cum belli trepido concussa tumultu
  horrida contremuere sub altis ætheris oris,
  in dubioque fuere utrorum ad regna cadendum
  omnibus humanis esset terraque marique,
  sic:

The lines in italics could have been written by none but a Roman conscious that the conflict
with Carthage had decided the absolute empire of the habitable world. In like manner the description
of a military review (ii. 323) is Roman: so, too, is that of the amphitheatre (iv. 75):--

  et volgo faciunt id lutea russaque vela
  et ferrugina, cum magnis intenta theatris
  per malos volgata trabesque trementia flutant.
  namque ibi consessum caveai supter et omnem
  scænai speciem, patrum coetumque decorum
  inficiunt coguntque suo fluitare colore.

The imagination of Lucretius, however, was habitually less affected by the particular than
by the universal. He loved to dwell upon the large and general aspects of things--on the procession
of the seasons, for example, rather than upon the landscape of the Campagna in spring or autumn.
Therefore it is only occasionally and by accident that we find in his verse touches peculiarly
characteristic of the manners of his country. Therefore, again, it has happened that modern
critics have detected a lack of patriotic interest in this most Roman of all Latin poets. Also
may it here be remembered, that the single line which sums up all the history of Rome in one
soul-shaking hexameter, is not Lucretian but Virgilian:--

  Tantæ molis erat Romanam condere gentem.

The custode of the Baths of Titus, when he lifts his torch to explore those ruined arches,
throws the wan light upon one place where a Roman hand has scratched that verse in gigantic
letters on the cement. The colossal genius of Rome seems speaking to us, an oracle no lapse
of time can render dumb.

But Lucretius is not only the poet par excellence of Rome. He will always rank also among the
first philosophical poets of the world: and here we find a second standpoint for inquiry. The
question how far it is practicable to express philosophy in verse, and to combine the accuracy
of scientific language with the charm of rhythm and the ornaments of the fancy, is one which
belongs rather to modern than to ancient criticism. In the progress of culture there has been
an ever-growing separation between the several spheres of intellectual activity. What Livy
said about the Roman Empire is true now of knowledge: magnitudine laborat suâ; so that the
labour of specialising and distinguishing has for many centuries been all-important. Not only
do we disbelieve in the desirability of smearing honey upon the lip of the medicine-glass through
which the draught of erudition has to be administered; but we know for certain that it is only
at the meeting-points between science and emotion that the philosophic poet finds a proper
sphere. Whatever subject-matter can be permeated or penetrated with strong human feeling is
fit for verse. Then the rhythms and the forms of poetry to which high passions naturally move,
become spontaneous. The emotion is paramount, and the knowledge conveyed is valuable as supplying
fuel to the fire of feeling. There are, were, and always will be high imaginative points of
vantage commanding the broad fields of knowledge, upon which the poet may take his station
to survey the world and all that it contains. But it has long ceased to be his function to
set forth, in any kind of metre, systems of speculative thought or purely scientific truths.
This was not the case in the old world. There was a period in the development of the intellect
when the abstractions of logic appeared like intuitions, and guesses about the structure of
the universe still wore the garb of fancy. When physics and metaphysics were scarcely distinguished
from mythology, it was natural to address the Muses at the outset of a treatise of ontology,
and to cadence a theory of elemental substances in hexameter verse. Thus the philosophical
poems of Xenophanes, Parmenides, and Empedocles belonged essentially to a transitional stage
of human culture.

There is a second species of poetry to which the name of philosophical may be given, though
it better deserves that of mystical. Pantheism occupies a middle place between a scientific
theory of the universe and a form of religious enthusiasm. It supplies an element in which
the poetic faculty can move with freedom: for its conclusions, in so far as they pretend to
philosophy, are large and general, and the emotions which it excites are co-extensive with
the world. Therefore, Pantheistic mysticism, from the Bhagavadgita of the far East, through
the Persian Soofis, down to the poets of our own century, Goethe, and Shelley, and Wordsworth,
and Whitman, and many more whom it would be tedious to enumerate, has generated a whole tribe
of philosophic singers.

Yet a third class may be mentioned. Here we have to deal with what are called didactic poems.
These, like the metaphysical epic, began to flourish in early Greece at the moment when exact
thought was dividing itself laboriously from myths and fancies. Hesiod with his poem on the
life of man leads the way; and the writers of moral sentences in elegiac verse, among whom
Solon and Theognis occupy the first place, follow. Latin literature contributes highly artificial
specimens of this kind in the 'Georgics' of Virgil, the stoical diatribes of Persius, and the
'Ars Poetica' of Horace. Didactic verse had a special charm for the genius of the Latin race.
The name of such poems in the Italian literature of the Renaissance is legion. The French delighted
in the same style under the same influences; nor can we fail to attribute the 'Essay on Man'
and the 'Essay on Criticism' of our own Pope to a similar revival in England of Latin forms
of art. The taste for didactic verse has declined. Yet in its stead another sort of philosophical
poetry has grown up in this century, which, for the want of a better term, may be called psychological.
It deserves this title, inasmuch as the motive-interest of the art in question is less the
passion or the action of humanity than the analysis of the same. The 'Faust' of Goethe, the
'Prelude' and 'Excursion' of Wordsworth, Browning's 'Sordello' and Mrs. Browning's 'Aurora
Leigh,' together with the 'Musings' of Coleridge and the 'In Memoriam' of Tennyson, may be
roughly reckoned in this class. It will be noticed that nothing has been said about professedly
religious poetry, much of which attaches itself to mysticism, while some, like the 'Divine
Comedy' of Dante, is philosophic in the truest sense of the word.

Where, then, are we to place Lucretius? He was a Roman, imbued with the didactic predilections
of the Latin race; and the didactic quality of the 'De Rerum Naturâ' is unmistakable. Yet it
would be uncritical to place this poem in the class which derives from Hesiod. It belongs really
to the succession of Xenophanes, Parmenides, and Empedocles. As such it was an anachronism.
The specific moment in the development of thought at which the Parmenidean Epic was natural
has been already described. The Romans of the age of Lucretius had advanced far beyond it.
The idealistic metaphysics of the Socratic school, the positive ethics of the Stoics, and the
profound materialism of Epicurus, had accustomed the mind to habits of exact and subtle thinking,
prolonged from generation to generation upon the same lines of speculative inquiry. Philosophy
expressed in verse was out of date. Moreover, the very myths had been rationalised. Euhemerus
had even been translated into Latin by Ennius, and his prosaic explanations of Greek legend
had found acceptance with the essentially positive Roman intellect. Lucretius himself, it may
be said in passing, thought it worth while to offer a philosophical explanation of the Greek
mythology. The Cybele of the poets is shown in one of his sublimest passages (ii. 600-645)
to be Earth. To call the sea Neptune, corn Ceres, and wine Bacchus, seems to him a simple folly
(ii. 652-657). We have already seen how he reduces the fiends and spectres of the Greek Hades
to facts of moral subjectivity (iii. 978-1023). In another place he attacks the worship of
Phoebus and the stars (v. 110); in yet another he upsets the belief in the Centaurs, Scylla,
and Chimæra (v. 877-924) with a gravity which is almost comic. Such arguments formed a necessary
element in his polemic against foul religion (foeda religio--turpis religio); to deliver men
from which (i. 62-112), by establishing firmly in their minds the conviction that the gods
exist far away from this world in unconcerned tranquillity (ii. 646), and by substituting the
notion of Nature for that of deity (ii. 1090), was the object of his scientific demonstration.

Lucretius, therefore, had outgrown mythology, was hostile to religion, and burned with unsurpassable
enthusiasm to indoctrinate his Roman readers with the weighty conclusions of systematised materialism.
Yet he chose the vehicle of hexameter verse, and trammelled his genius with limitations which
Empedocles, four hundred years before, must have found almost intolerable. It needed the most
ardent intellectual passion and the loftiest inspiration to sustain on his far flight a poet
who had forged a hoplite's panoply for singing robes. Both passion and inspiration were granted
to Lucretius in full measure. And just as there was something contradictory between the scientific
subject-matter and the poetical form of his masterpiece, so the very sources of his poetic
strength were such as are usually supposed to depress the soul. His passion was for death,
annihilation, godlessness. It was not the eloquence, but the force of logic in Epicurus that
roused his enthusiasm:--

  ergo vivida vis animi pervicit et extra
  processit longe flammantia moenia mundi.

No other poet who ever lived in any age, or any shore, drew inspiration from founts more passionless
and more impersonal.

The 'De Rerum Naturâ' is therefore an attempt, unique in its kind, to combine philosophical
exposition and poetry in an age when the requirements of the former had already outgrown the
resources of the latter. Throughout the poem we trace a discord between the matter and the
form. The frost of reason and the fire of fancy war in deadly conflict; for the Lucretian system
destroyed nearly everything with which the classical imagination loved to play. It was only
in some high ethereal region, before the majestic thought of Death or the new Myth of Nature,
that the two faculties of the poet's genius met for mutual support. Only at rare intervals
did he allow himself to make artistic use of mere mythology, as in the celebrated exordium
of the first book, or the description of the Seasons in the fifth book (737-745). For the most
part reason and fancy worked separately: after long passages of scientific explanation, Lucretius
indulged his readers with those pictures of unparalleled sublimity and grace which are the
charm of the whole poem; or dropping the phraseology of atoms, void, motion, chance, he spoke
at times of Nature as endowed with reason and a will (v. 186, 811, 846).

It would be beyond the scope of this essay to discuss the particular form given by Lucretius
to the Democritean philosophy. He believed the universe to be composed of atoms, infinite in
number, and variable, to a finite extent, in form, which drift slantingly through an infinite
void. Their combinations under the conditions of what we call space and time are transitory,
while they remain themselves imperishable. Consequently, as the soul itself is corporeally
constituted, and as thought and sensation depend on mere material idola, men may divest themselves
of any fear of the hereafter. There is no such thing as providence, nor do the gods concern
themselves with the kaleidoscopic medley of atoms in transient combination which we call our
world. The latter were points of supreme interest to Lucretius. He seems to have cared for
the cosmology of Epicurus chiefly as it touched humanity through ethics and religion. To impartial
observers, the identity or the divergence of the forms assumed by scientific hypothesis at
different periods of the world's history is not a matter of much importance. Yet a peculiar
interest has of late been given to the Lucretian materialism by the fact that physical speculation
has returned to what is substantially the same ground. The most modern theories of evolution
and of molecular structure may be stated in language which, allowing for the progress made
by exact thought during the last twenty centuries, is singularly like that of Lucretius. The
Roman poet knew fewer facts than are familiar to our men of science, and was far less able
to analyse one puzzle into a whole group of unexplained phenomena. He had besides but a feeble
grasp upon those discoveries which subserve the arts of life and practical utility. But as
regards absolute knowledge--knowledge, that is to say, of what the universe really is, and
of how it became what it seems to us to be--Lucretius stood at the same point of ignorance
as we, after the labours of Darwin and of Spencer, of Helmholtz and of Huxley, still do. Ontological
speculation is as barren now as then, and the problems of existence still remain insoluble.
The chief difference indeed between him and modern investigators is that they have been lessoned
by the experience of the last two thousand years to know better the depths of human ignorance,
and the directions in which it is possible to sound them.

It may not be uninteresting to collect a few passages in which the Roman poet has expressed
in his hexameters the lines of thought adopted by our most advanced theorists. Here is the
general conception of Nature, working by her own laws toward the achievement of that result
which we apprehend through the medium of the senses (ii. 1090):--

    Quæ bene cognita si teneas, natura videtur
  libera continuo dominis privata superbis
  ipsa sua per se sponte omnia dis agere expers.

Here again is a demonstration of the absurdity of supposing that the world was made for the
use of men (v. 156):--

  dicere porro hominum causa voluisse parare
  præclaram mundi naturam proptereaque
  adlaudabile opus divom laudare decere
  æternumque putare atque inmortale futurum
  nec fas esse, deum quod sit ratione vetusta
  gentibus humanis fundatum perpetuo ævo,
  sollicitare suis ulla vi ex sedibus umquam
  nec verbis vexare et ab imo evertere summa,
  cetera de genere hoc adfingere et addere, Memmi
  desiperest.

A like cogent rhetoric is directed against the arguments of toleology (iv. 823):--

    Illud in his rebus vitium vementer avessis
  effugere, errorem vitareque præmetuenter,
  lumina ne facias oculorum clara creata,
  prospicere ut possemus, et ut proferre queamus
  proceros passus, ideo fastigia posse
  surarum ac feminum pedibus fundata plicari,
  bracchia tum porro validis ex apta lacertis
  esse manusque datas utraque ex parte ministras,
  ut facere ad vitam possemus quæ foret usus.
  cetera de genere hoc inter quæcumque pretantur
  omnia perversa præpostera sunt ratione,
  nil ideo quoniam natumst in corpore ut uti
  possemus, sed quod natumst id procreat usum.
  nec fuit ante videre oculorum lumina nata
  nec dictis orare prius quam lingua creatast,
  sed potius longe linguæ præcessit origo
  sermonem multoque creatæ sunt prius aures
  quam sonus est auditus, et omnia denique membra
  ante fuere, ut opinor, eorum quam foret usus.
  haud igitur potuere utendi crescere causa.

The ultimate dissolution and the gradual decay of the terrestrial globe is set forth in the
following luminous passage (ii. 1148):--

  Sic igitur magni quoque circum moenia mundi
  expugnata dabunt labem putrisque ruinas.
  iamque adeo fracta est ætas effetaque tellus
  vix animalia parva creat quæ cuncta creavit
  sæcla deditque ferarum ingentia corpora partu.[1]

The same mind which recognised these probabilities knew also that our globe is not single,
but that it forms one among an infinity of sister orbs (ii. 1084):--

  quapropter cælum simili ratione fatendumst
  terramque et solem lunam mare, cetera quæ sunt
  non esse unica, sed numero magis innumerali.[2]

When Lucretius takes upon himself to describe the process of becoming which made the world
what it now is, he seems to incline to a theory not at all dissimilar to that of unassisted
evolution (v. 419):--

  nam certe neque consilio primordia rerum
  ordine se suo quæque sagaci mente locarunt
  nec quos quæque darent motus pepigere profecto,
  sed quia multa modis multis primordia rerum
  ex infinito iam tempore percita plagis
  ponderibusque suis consuerunt concita ferri
  omnimodisque coire atque omnia pertemptare,
  quæcumque inter se possent congressa creare,
  propterea fit uti magnum volgata per ævom
  omne genus coetus et motus experiundo
  tandem conveniant ea quæ convecta repente
  magnarum rerum fiunt exordia sæpe,
  terrai maris et cæli generisque animantum.

    [1] Compare book v. 306-317 on the evidences of decay
    continually at work in the fabric of the world.

    [2] The same truth is insisted on with even greater force
    of language in vi. 649-652.

Entering into the details of the process, he describes the many ill-formed, amorphous beginnings
of organised life upon the globe, which came to nothing, 'since nature set a ban upon their
increase' (v. 837-848); and then proceeds to explain how, in the struggle for existence, the
stronger prevailed over the weaker (v. 855-863). What is really interesting in this exposition
is that Lucretius ascribes to nature the volition ('convertebat ibi natura foramina terræ;'
'quoniam natura absterruit auctum') which has recently been attributed by materialistic speculators
to the same maternal power.

To press these points, and to neglect the gap which separates Lucretius from thinkers fortified
by the discoveries of modern chemistry, astronomy, physiology, and so forth, would be childish.
All we can do is to point to the fact that the circumambient atmosphere of human ignorance,
with reference to the main matters of speculation, remains undissipated. The mass of experience
acquired since the age of Lucretius is enormous, and is infinitely valuable; while our power
of tabulating, methodising, and extending the sphere of experimental knowledge seems to be
unlimited. Only ontological deductions, whether negative or affirmative, remain pretty much
where they were then.

The fame of Lucretius, however, rests not on this foundation of hypothesis. In his poetry lies
the secret of a charm which he will continue to exercise as long as humanity chooses to read
Latin verse. No poet has created a world of larger and nobler images, designed with the sprezzatura
of indifference to mere gracefulness, but all the more fascinating because of the artist's
negligence. There is something monumental in the effect produced by his large-sounding single
epithets and simple names. We are at home with the dæmonic life of nature when he chooses to
bring Pan and his following before our eyes (iv. 580). Or, again, the Seasons pass like figures
on some frieze of Mantegna, to which, by divine accident, has been added the glow of Titian's
colouring[1] (v. 737):--

  it ver et Venus, et veris prænuntius ante
  pennatus graditur zephyrus, vestigia propter
  Flora quibus mater præspargens ante viai
  cuncta coloribus egregiis et odoribus opplet.
  inde loci sequitur calor aridus et comes una
  pulverulenta Ceres et etesia flabra aquilonum,
  inde antumnus adit, graditur simul Eubius Euan,
  inde aliæ tempestates ventique secuntur,
  altitonans Volturnus et auster fulmine pollens.
  tandem bruma nives adfert pigrumque rigorem,
  prodit hiemps, sequitur crepitans hanc dentibus algor.

With what a noble style, too, are the holidays of the primeval pastoral folk described (v.
1379-1404). It is no mere celebration of the bell' età dell' oro: but we see the woodland glades,
and hear the songs of shepherds, and feel the hush of summer among rustling forest trees, while
at the same time all is far away, in a better, simpler, larger age. The sympathy of Lucretius
for every form of country life was very noticeable. It belonged to that which was most deeply
and sincerely poetic in the Latin genius, whence Virgil drew his sweetest strain of melancholy,
and Horace his most unaffected pictures, and Catullus the tenderness of his best lines on Sirmio.
No Roman surpassed the pathos with which Lucretius described the separation of a cow from her
calf (ii. 352-365). The same note indeed was touched by Virgil in his lines upon the forlorn
nightingale, and in the peroration to the third 'Georgic.' But the style of Virgil is more
studied, the feeling more artistically elaborated. It would be difficult to parallel such Lucretian
passages in Greek poetry. The Greeks lacked an undefinable something of rusticity which dignified
the Latin race. This quality was not altogether different from what we call homeliness. Looking
at the busts of Romans, and noticing their resemblance to English country gentlemen, I have
sometimes wondered whether the Latin genius, just in those points where it differed from the
Greek, was not approximated to the English.

    [1] The elaborate illustration of the first four lines of
    this passage, painted by Botticelli (in the Florence
    Academy of Fine Arts), proves Botticelli's incapacity or
    unwillingness to deal with the subject in the spirit of
    the original. It is graceful and 'subtle' enough, but not
    Lucretian.

All subjects needing a large style, brief and rapid, but at the same time luminous with imagination,
were sure of the right treatment from Lucretius. This is shown by his enumeration of the celestial
signs (v. 1188):--

  in cæloque deum sedes et templa locarunt,
  per cælum volvi quia nox et luna videtur,
  luna dies et nox et noctis signa severa
  noctivagæque faces cæli flammæque volantes,
  nubila sol imbres nix venti fulmina grando
  et rapidi fremitus et murmura magna minarum.

Again, he never failed to rise to an occasion which required the display of fervid eloquence.
The Roman eloquence, which in its energetic volubility was the chief force of Juvenal, added
a tidal strength and stress of storm to the quick gathering thoughts of the greater poet. The
exordia to the first and second books, the analysis of Love in the fourth, the praises of Epicurus
in the third and fifth, the praises of Empedocles and Ennius in the first, the elaborate passage
on the progress of civilisation in the fifth, and the description of the plague at Athens which
closes the sixth, are noble instances of the sublimest poetry sustained and hurried onward
by the volume of impassioned improvisation. It is difficult to imagine that Lucretius wrote
slowly. The strange word vociferari, which he uses so often, and which the Romans of the Augustan
age almost dropped from their poetic vocabulary, seems exactly made to suit his utterance.
Yet at times he tempers the full torrent of resonant utterance with divine tranquillity, and
leaves upon our mind that sense of powerful aloofness from his subject, which only belongs
to the mightiest poets in their most majestic moments. One instance of this rare felicity of
style shall end the list of our quotations (v. 1194):--

  O genus infelix humanum, talia divis
  cum tribuit facta atque iras adiunxit acerbas!
  quantos tum gemitus ipsi sibi, quantaque nobis
  volnera, quas lacrimas peperere minoribu' nostris!
  nec pietas ullast velatum sæpe videri
  vertier ad lapidem atque omnis accedere ad aras
  nec procumbere humi prostratum et pandere palmas
  ante deum delubra nec aras sanguine multo
  spargere quadrupedum nec votis nectere vota,
  sed mage pacata posse omnia mente tueri.
  nam cum suspicimus magni cælestia mundi
  templa, super stellisque micantibus æthera fixum,
  et venit in mentem solis lunæque viarum,
  tunc aliis oppressa malis in pectora cura
  illa quoque expergefactum caput erigere infit,
  ne quæ forte deum nobis inmensa potestas
  sit, vario motu quæ candida sidera verset.
  temptat enim dubiam mentem rationis egestas,
  ecquænam fuerit mundi genitalis origo,
  et simul ecquæ sit finis, quoad moenia mundi
  solliciti motus hunc possint ferre laborem,
  an divinitus æterna donata salute
  perpetuo possint ævi labentia tractu
  inmensi validas ævi contemnere viris.

It would be impossible to adduce from any other poet a passage in which the deepest doubts
and darkest terrors and most vexing questions that beset the soul, are touched with an eloquence
more stately and a pathos more sublime. Without losing the sense of humanity, we are carried
off into the infinite. Such poetry is as imperishable as the subject of which it treats.

ANTINOUS

Visitors to picture and sculpture galleries are haunted by the forms of two handsome young
men--Sebastian and Antinous. Both were saints: the one of decadent Paganism, the other of mythologising
Christianity. According to the popular beliefs to which they owed their canonisation, both
suffered death in the bloom of earliest manhood for the faith that burned in them. There is,
however, this difference between the two--that whereas Sebastian is a shadowy creature of the
pious fancy, Antinous preserves a marked and unmistakable personality. All his statues are
distinguished by unchanging characteristics. The pictures of Sebastian vary according to the
ideal of adolescent beauty conceived by each successive artist. In the frescoes of Perugino
and Luini he shines with the pale pure light of saintliness. On the canvas of Sodoma he reproduces
the voluptuous charm of youthful Bacchus, with so much of anguish in his martyred features
as may serve to heighten his dæmonic fascination. On the richer panels of the Venetian masters
he glows with a flame of earthly passion aspiring heavenward. Under Guido's hand he is a model
of mere carnal comeliness. And so forth through the whole range of the Italian painters. We
know Sebastian only by his arrows. The case is very different with Antinous. Depicted under
diverse attributes--as Hermes of the wrestling-ground, as Aristæus or Vertumnus, as Dionysus,
as Ganymede, as Herakles, or as a god of ancient Egypt--his individuality is always prominent.
No metamorphosis of divinity can change the lineaments he wore on earth. And this difference,
so marked in the artistic presentation of the two saints, is no less striking in their several
histories. The legend of Sebastian tells us nothing to be relied upon, except that he was a
Roman soldier converted to the Christian faith, and martyred. In spite of the perplexity and
mystery that involve the death of Antinous in impenetrable gloom, he is a true historic personage,
no phantom of myth, but a man as real as Hadrian, his master.

Antinous, as he appears in sculpture, is a young man of eighteen or nineteen years, almost
faultless in his form. His beauty is not of a pure Greek type. Though perfectly proportioned
and developed by gymnastic exercises to the true athletic fulness, his limbs are round and
florid, suggesting the possibility of early over-ripeness. The muscles are not trained to sinewy
firmness, but yielding and elastic; the chest is broad and singularly swelling; and the shoulders
are placed so far back from the thorax that the breasts project beyond them in a massive arch.
It has been asserted that one shoulder is slightly lower than the other. Some of the busts
seem to justify this statement; but the appearance is due probably to the different position
of the two arms, one of which, if carried out, would be lifted and the other be depressed.
The legs and arms are modelled with exquisite grace of outline; yet they do not show that readiness
for active service which is noticeable in the statues of converging so closely as almost to
meet above the deep-cut eyes. The nose is straight, but blunter than is consistent with the
Greek ideal. Both cheeks and chin are delicately formed, but fuller than a severe taste approves:
one might trace in their rounded contours either a survival of infantine innocence and immaturity,
or else the sign of rapidly approaching over-bloom. The mouth is one of the loveliest ever
carved; but here again the blending of the Greek and Oriental types is visible. The lips, half
parted, seem to pout; and the distance between mouth and nostrils is exceptionally short. The
undefinable expression of the lips, together with the weight of the brows and slumberous half-closed
eyes, gives a look of sulkiness or voluptuousness to the whole face. This, I fancy, is the
first impression which the portraits of Antinous produce; and Shelley has well conveyed it
by placing the two following phrases, 'eager and impassioned tenderness' and 'effeminate sullenness,'
in close juxtaposition.[1] But, after longer familiarity with the whole range of Antinous's
portraits, and after study of his life, we are brought to read the peculiar expression of his
face and form somewhat differently. A prevailing melancholy, sweetness of temperament overshadowed
by resignation, brooding reverie, the innocence of youth, touched and saddened by a calm resolve
or an accepted doom--such are the sentences we form to give distinctness to a still vague and
uncertain impression. As we gaze, Virgil's lines upon the young Marcellus recur to our mind:
what seemed sullen, becomes mournful; the unmistakable voluptuousness is transfigured in tranquillity.

    [1] Fragment, The Coliseum.

After all is said and written, the statues of Antinous do not render up their secret. Like
some of the Egyptian gods with whom he was associated, he remains for us a sphinx, secluded
in the shade of a 'mild mystery.' His soul, like the Harpocrates he personated, seems to hold
one finger on closed lips, in token of eternal silence. One thing, however, is certain. We
have before us no figment of the artistic imagination, but a real youth of incomparable beauty,
just as nature made him, with all the inscrutableness of undeveloped character, with all the
pathos of a most untimely doom, with the almost imperceptible imperfections that render choice
reality more permanently charming than the ideal. It has been disputed whether the Antinous
statues are portraits or idealised works of inventive art; and it is usually conceded that
the sculptors of Hadrian's age were not able to produce a new ideal type. Critics, therefore,
like Helbig and Overbeck, arrive at the conclusion that Antinous was one of nature's masterpieces,
modelled in bronze, marble, and granite with almost flawless technical dexterity. Without attaching
too much weight to this kind of criticism, it is well to find the decisions of experts in harmony
with the instincts of simple observers. Antinous is as real as any man who ever sat for his
portrait to a modern sculptor.

But who was Antinous, and what is known of him? He was a native of Bithynium or Claudiopolis,
a Greek town claiming to have been a colony from Arcadia, which was situated near the Sangarius,
in the Roman province of Bithynia; therefore he may have had pure Hellenic blood in his veins,
or, what is more probable, his ancestry may have been hybrid between the Greek immigrants and
the native populations of Asia Minor. Antinous was probably born in the first decade of the
second century of our era. About his youth and education we know nothing. He first appears
upon the scene of the world's history as Hadrian's friend. Whether the Emperor met with him
during his travels in Asia Minor, whether he found him among the students of the University
at Athens, or whether the boy had been sent to Rome in his childhood, must remain matter of
the merest conjecture. We do not even know for certain whether Antinous was free or a slave.
The report that he was one of the Emperor's pages rests upon the testimony of Hegesippus, quoted
by a Christian Father, and cannot therefore be altogether relied upon. It receives, however,
some confirmation from the fact that Antinous is more than once represented in the company
of Hadrian and Trajan in a page's hunting dress upon the basreliefs which adorn the Arch of
Constantine. The so-called Antinous-Castor of the Villa Albani is probably of a similar character.
Winckelmann, who adopted the tradition as trustworthy, pointed out the similarity between the
portraits of Antinous and some lines in Phædrus, which describe a curly-haired atriensis. If
Antinous took the rank of atriensis in the imperial pædagogium, his position would have been,
to say the least, respectable; for to these upper servants was committed the charge of the
atrium, where the Romans kept their family archives, portraits, and works of art. Yet he must
have quitted this kind of service some time before his death, since we find him in the company
of Hadrian upon one of those long journeys in which an atriensis would have had no atrium to
keep. By the time of Hadrian's visit to Egypt, Antinous had certainly passed into the closest
relationship with his imperial master; and what we know of the Emperor's inclination towards
literary and philosophical society perhaps justifies the belief that the youth he admitted
to his friendship had imbibed Greek culture, and had been initiated into those cloudy metaphysics
which amused the leisure of semi-Oriental thinkers in the last age of decaying Paganism.

It was a moment in the history of the human mind when East and West were blending their traditions
to form the husk of Christian creeds and the fantastic visions of neo-Platonism. Rome herself
had received with rapture the strange rites of Nilotic and of Syrian superstition. Alexandria
was the forge of fanciful imaginations, the majority of which were destined to pass like vapours
and leave not a wrack behind, while a few fastened with the force of dogma on the conscience
of awakening Christendom. During Hadrian's reign it was still uncertain which among the many
hybrid products of that motley age would live and flourish; and the Emperor, we know, dreamed
fondly of reviving the cults and restoring the splendour of degenerate Hellas. At the same
time he was not averse to the more mystic rites of Egypt: in his villa at Tivoli he built a
Serapeum, and named one of its quarters Canopus. What part Antinous may have taken in the projects
of his friend and master we know not; yet, when we come to consider the circumstances of his
death, it may not be superfluous to have thus touched upon the intellectual conditions of the
world in which he lived. The mixed blood of the boy, born and bred in a Greek city near the
classic ground of Dindymean rites, and his beauty, blent of Hellenic and Eastern qualities,
may also not unprofitably be remembered. In such a youth, nurtured between Greece and Asia,
admitted to the friendship of an emperor for whom neo-Hellenism was a life's dream in the midst
of grave state-cares, influenced by the dark and symbolical creeds of a dimly apprehended East,
might there not have lurked some spark of enthusiasm combining the impulses of Atys and Aristogeiton,
pathetic even in its inefficiency when judged by the light of modern knowledge, but heroic
at that moment in its boundless vista of great deeds to be accomplished?

After journeying through Greece, Asia Minor, Syria, Palestine, and Arabia, Hadrian, attended
by Antinous, came to Egypt. He there restored the tomb of Pompey, near Pelusium, with great
magnificence, and shortly afterwards embarked from Alexandria upon the Nile, proceeding on
his journey through Memphis into the Thebaïd. When he had arrived near an ancient city named
Besa, on the right bank of the river, he lost his friend. Antinous was drowned in the Nile.
He had thrown himself, it was believed, into the water; seeking thus by a voluntary death to
substitute his own life for Hadrian's, and to avert predicted perils from the Roman Empire.
What these perils were, and whether Hadrian was ill, or whether an oracle had threatened him
with approaching calamity, we do not know. Even supposition is at fault, because the date of
the event is still uncertain; some authorities placing Hadrian's Egyptian journey in the year
122, and others in the year 130 A.D. Of the two dates, the second seems the more probable.
We are left to surmise that, if the Emperor was in danger, the recent disturbances which followed
a new discovery of Apis, may have exposed him to fanatical conspiracy. The same doubt affects
an ingenious conjecture that rumours which reached the Roman court of a new rising in Judæa
had disturbed the Emperor's mind, and led to the belief that he was on the verge of a mysterious
doom. He had pacified the Empire and established its administration on a solid basis. Yet the
revolt of the indomitable Jews--more dreaded since the days of Titus than any other perturbation
of the imperial economy--would have been enough, especially in Egypt, to engender general uneasiness.
However this may have been, the grief of the Emperor, intensified either by gratitude or remorse,
led to the immediate canonisation of Antinous. The city where he died was rebuilt, and named
after him. His worship as a hero and as a god spread far and wide throughout the provinces
of the Mediterranean. A new star, which appeared about the time of his decease, was supposed
to be his soul received into the company of the immortals. Medals were struck in his honour,
and countless works of art were produced to make his memory undying. Great cities wore wreaths
of red lotos on his feast-day in commemoration of the manner of his death. Public games were
celebrated in his honour at the city Antinoë, and also in Arcadian Mantinea. This canonisation
may probably have taken place in the fourteenth year of Hadrian's reign, A.D. 130.[1] Antinous
continued to be worshipped until the reign of Valentinian.

    [1] Overbeck, Hausrath, and Mommsen, following apparently
    the conclusions arrived at by Flemmer in his work on
    Hadrian's journeys, place it in 130 A.D. This would leave
    an interval of only eight years between the deaths of
    Antinous and Hadrian. It may here be observed that two
    medals of Antinous, referred by Rasche with some
    hesitation to the Egyptian series, bear the dates of the
    eighth and ninth years of Hadrian's reign. If these coins
    are genuine, and if we accept Flemmer's conclusions, they
    must have been struck in the lifetime of Antinous. Neither
    of them represents Antinous with the insignia of deity:
    one gives the portrait of Hadrian upon the reverse.

Thus far I have told a simple story, as though the details of the youth's last days were undisputed.
Still we are as yet but on the threshold of the subject. All that we have any right to take
for uncontested is that Antinous passed from this life near the city of Besa, called thereafter
Antinoopolis or Antinoë. Whether he was drowned by accident, whether he drowned himself in
order to save Hadrian by vicarious suffering, or whether Hadrian sacrificed him in order to
extort the secrets of fate from blood-propitiated deities, remains a question buried in the
deepest gloom. With a view to throwing such light as is possible upon the matter, we must proceed
to summon in their order the most trustworthy authorities among the ancients.

Dion Cassius takes precedence. In compiling his life of Hadrian, he had beneath his eyes the
Emperor's own 'Commentaries,' published under the name of the freedman Phlegon. We therefore
learn from him at least what the friend of Antinous wished the world to know about his death;
and though this does not go for much, since Hadrian is himself an accused person in the suit
before us, yet the whole Roman Empire may be said to have accepted his account, and based on
it a pious cult that held its own through the next three centuries of growing Christianity.
Dion, in the abstract of his history compiled by Xiphilinus, speaks then to this effect: 'In
Egypt he also built the city named after Antinous. Now Antinous was a native of Bithynium,
a city of Bithynia, which we also call Claudiopolis. He was Hadrian's favourite, and he died
in Egypt: whether by having fallen into the Nile, as Hadrian writes, or by having been sacrificed,
as the truth was. For Hadrian, as I have said, was in general over-much given to superstitious
subtleties, and practised all kinds of sorceries and magic arts. At any rate he so honoured
Antinous, whether because of the love he felt for him, or because he died voluntarily, since
a willing victim was needed for his purpose, that he founded a city in the place where he met
this fate, and called it after him, and dedicated statues, or rather images, of him in, so
to speak, the whole inhabited world. Lastly, he affirmed that a certain star which he saw was
the star of Antinous, and listened with pleasure to the myths invented by his companions about
this star having really sprung from the soul of his favourite, and having then for the first
time appeared. For which things he was laughed at.'

We may now hear what Spartian, in his 'Vita Hadriani,' has to say: 'He lost his favourite,
Antinous, while sailing on the Nile, and lamented him like a woman. About Antinous reports
vary, for some say that he devoted his life for Hadrian, while others hint what his condition
seems to prove, as well as Hadrian's excessive inclination to luxury. Some Greeks, at the instance
of Hadrian, canonised him, asserting that oracles were given by him, which Hadrian himself
is supposed to have made up.'

In the third place comes Aurelius Victor: 'Others maintain that this sacrifice of Antinous
was both pious and religious; for when Hadrian was wishing to prolong his life, and the magicians
required a voluntary vicarious victim, they say that, upon the refusal of all others, Antinous
offered himself.'

These are the chief authorities. In estimating them we must remember that, though Dion Cassius
wrote less than a century after the event narrated, he has come down to us merely in fragments
and in the epitome of a Byzantine of the twelfth century, when everything that could possibly
be done to discredit the worship of Antinous, and to blacken the memory of Hadrian, had been
attempted by the Christian Fathers. On the other hand, Spartianus and Aurelius Victor compiled
their histories at too distant a date to be of first-rate value. Taking the three reports together,
we find that antiquity differed about the details of Antinous's death. Hadrian himself averred
that his friend was drowned; and it was surmised that he had drowned himself in order to prolong
his master's life. The courtiers, however, who had scoffed at Hadrian's fondness for his favourite,
and had laughed to see his sorrow for his death, somewhat illogically came to the conclusion
that Antinous had been immolated by the Emperor, either because a victim was needed to prolong
his life, or because some human sacrifice was required in order to complete a dark mysterious
magic rite. Dion, writing not very long after the event, believed that Antinous had been immolated
for some such purpose with his own consent. Spartian, who wrote at the distance of more than
a century, felt uncertain about the question of self-devotion; but Aurelius Victor, following
after the interval of another century, unhesitatingly adopted Dion's view, and gave it a fresh
colour. This opinion he summarised in a compact, authoritative form, upon which we may perhaps
found an assumption that the belief in Antinous, as a self-devoted victim, had been gradually
growing through two centuries.

There are therefore three hypotheses to be considered. The first is that Antinous died an accidental
death by drowning; the second is, that Antinous, in some way or another, gave his life willingly
for Hadrian's; the third is, that Hadrian ordered his immolation in the performance of magic rites.

For the first of the three hypotheses we have the authority of Hadrian himself, as quoted by
Dion. The simple words [Greek: eis ton Neilon ekpesôn] imply no more than accidental death;
and yet, if the Emperor had believed the story of his favourite's self-devotion, it is reasonable
to suppose that he would have recorded it in his 'Memoirs.' Accepting this view of the case,
we must refer the deification of Antinous wholly to Hadrian's affection; and the tales of his
devotio may have been invented partly to flatter the Emperor's grief, partly to explain its
violence to the Roman world. This hypothesis seems, indeed, by far the most natural of the
three; and if we could strip the history of Antinous of its mysterious and mythic elements,
it is rational to believe that we should find his death a simple accident. Yet our authorities
prove that writers of history among the ancients wavered between the two other theories of
(i) Self-Devotion and (ii) Immolation, with a bias toward the latter. These, then, have now
to be considered with some attention. Both, it may parenthetically be observed, relieve Antinous
from a moral stigma, since in either case a pure untainted victim was required.

If we accept the former of the two remaining hypotheses, we can understand how love and gratitude,
together with sorrow, led Hadrian to canonise Antinous. If we accept the latter, Hadrian's
sorrow itself becomes inexplicable; and we must attribute the foundation of Antinoë and the
deification of Antinous to remorse. It may be added, while balancing these two solutions of
the problem, that cynical sophists, like Hadrian's Græculi, were likely to have put the worst
construction on the Emperor's passion, and to have invented the worst stories concerning the
favourite's death. To perpetuate these calumnious reports was the real interest of the Christian
apologists, who not unnaturally thought it scandalous that a handsome page should be deified.
Thus, at first sight, the balance of probability inclines toward the former of the two solutions,
while the second may be rejected as based upon court-gossip and religious animosity. Attention
may also again be called to the fact that Hadrian ventured to publish an account of Antinous
quite inconsistent with what Dion chose to call the truth, and that virtuous Emperors like
the Antonines did not interfere with a cult, which, had it been paid to the mere victim of
Hadrian's passion and his superstition, would have been an infamy even in Rome. Moreover, that
cult was not, like the creations of the impious emperors, forgotten or destroyed by public
acclamation. It took root and flourished apparently, as we shall see, because it satisfied
some craving of the popular religious sense, and because the people believed that this man
had died for his friend. It will not, however, do to dismiss the two hypotheses so lightly.

The alternative of self-devotion presents itself under a double aspect. Antinous may either
have committed suicide by drowning with the intention of prolonging the Emperor's life, or
he may have offered himself as a voluntary victim to the magicians, who required a sacrifice
for a similar purpose. Spartian's brief phrase, aliis eum devotum pro Hadriano, may seem to
point to the first form of self-devotion; the testimony of Aurelius Victor clearly supports
the second: yet it does not much matter which of the two explanations we adopt. The point is
whether Antinous gave his life willingly to save the Emperor's, or whether he was murdered
for the satisfaction of some superstitious curiosity. It was absolutely necessary that the
vicarious victim should make a free and voluntary oblation of himself. That the notion of vicarious
suffering was familiar to the ancients is sufficiently attested by the phrases [Greek: antipsychoi],
[Greek: antandroi], and hostia succidanea. We find traces of it in the legend of Alcestis,
who died for Admetus, and of Cheiron, who took the place of Prometheus in Hades. Suetonius
records that in the first days of Caligula's popularity, when he was labouring under dangerous
illness, many Romans of both sexes vowed their lives for his recovery in temples of the gods.
That this superstition retained a strong hold on the popular imagination in the time of Hadrian
is proved by the curious affirmation of Aristides, a contemporary of that Emperor. He says
that once, when he was ill, a certain Philumene offered her soul for his soul, her body for
his body, and that, upon his own recovery, she died. On the same testimony it appears that
her brother Hermeas had also died for Aristides. This faith in the efficacy of substitution
is persistent in the human race. Not long ago a Christian lady was supposed to have vowed her
own life for the prolongation of that of Pope Pius IX., and good Catholics inclined to the
belief that the sacrifice had been accepted. We shall see that in the first centuries of Christendom
the popular conviction that Antinous had died for Hadrian brought him into inconvenient rivalry
with Christ, whose vicarious suffering was the cardinal point of the new creed.

The alternative of immolation has next to be considered. The question before us here is, Did
Hadrian sacrifice Antinous for the satisfaction of a superstitious curiosity, and in the performance
of magic rites? Dion Cassius uses the word [Greek: hierourgêtheis], and explains it by saying
that Hadrian needed a voluntary human victim for the accomplishment of an act of divination
in which he was engaged. Both Spartian and Dion speak emphatically of the Emperor's proclivities
to the black art; and all antiquity agreed about this trait in his character. Ammianus Marcellinus
spoke of him as 'futurorum sciscitationi nimiæ deditum.' Tertullian described him as 'curiositatum
omnium exploratorem.' To multiply such phrases would, however, be superfluous, for they are
probably mere repetitions from the text of Dion. That human victims were used by the Romans
of the Empire seems certain. Lampridius, in the 'Life of Heliogabalus,' records his habit of
slaying handsome and noble youths, in order that he might inspect their entrails. Eusebius,
in his 'Life of Maxentius,' asserts the same of that Emperor. Quum inspiceret exta puerilia,
[Greek: neognôn splagchna brephôn diereunomenou], are the words used by Lampridius and Eusebius.
Justin Martyr speaks of [Greek: epopteuseis paidôn adiaphthorôn]. Caracalla and Julian are
credited with similar bloody sacrifices. Indeed, it may be affirmed in general that tyrants
have ever been eager to foresee the future and to extort her secrets from Fate, stopping short
at no crime in the attempt to quiet a corroding anxiety for their own safety. What we read
about Italian despots--Ezzelino da Romano, Sigismondo Malatesta, Filippo Maria Visconti, and
Pier Luigi Farnese--throws light upon the practice of their Imperial predecessors; while the
mysterious murder of the beautiful Astorre Manfredi by the Borgias in Hadrian's Mausoleum has
been referred by modern critics of authority to the same unholy curiosity. That Hadrian laboured
under this moral disease, and that he deliberately used the body of Antinous for extispicium,
is, I think, Dion's opinion. But are we justified in reckoning Hadrian among these tyrants?
That must depend upon our view of his character.

Hadrian was a man in whom the most conflicting qualities were blent. In his youth and through
his whole life he was passionately fond of hunting; hardy, simple in his habits, marching bareheaded
with his legions through German frost and Nubian heat, sharing the food of his soldiers, and
exercising the most rigid military discipline. At the same time he has aptly been described
as 'the most sumptuous character of antiquity.' He filled the cities of the empire with showy
buildings, and passed his last years in a kind of classic Munich, where he had constructed
imitations of every celebrated monument in Europe. He was so far fond of nature that, anticipating
the most recently developed of modern tastes, he ascended Mount Ætna and the Mons Casius, in
order to enjoy the spectacle of sunrise. In his villa at Tivoli he indulged a trivial fancy
by christening one garden Tempe and another the Elysian Fields; and he had his name carved
on the statue of the vocal Memnon with no less gusto than a modern tourist: audivi voces divinas.
His memory was prodigious, his eloquence in the Latin language studied and yet forcible, his
knowledge of Greek literature and philosophy far from contemptible. He enjoyed the society
of Sophists and distinguished rhetoricians, and so far affected authorship as to win the unenviable
title of Græculus in his own lifetime: yet he never neglected state affairs. Owing to his untiring
energy and vast capacity for business, he not only succeeded in reorganising every department
of the empire, social, political, fiscal, military, and municipal; but he also held in his
own hands the threads of all its complicated machinery. He was strict in matters of routine,
and appears to have been almost a martinet among his legions: yet in social intercourse he
lived on terms of familiarity with inferiors, combining the graces of elegant conversation
with the bonhomie of boon companionship, displaying a warm heart to his friends, and using
magnificent generosity. He restored the domestic as well as the military discipline of the
Roman world; and his code of laws lasted till Justinian. Among many of his useful measures
of reform he issued decrees restricting the power of masters over their slaves, and depriving
them of their old capital jurisdiction. His biographers find little to accuse him of beyond
a singular avidity for fame, addiction to magic arts and luxurious vices: yet they adduce no
proof of his having, at any rate before the date of his final retirement to his Tiburtine villa,
shared the crimes of a Nero or a Commodus. On the whole, we must recognise in Hadrian a nature
of extraordinary energy, capacity for administrative government, and mental versatility. A
certain superficiality, vulgarity, and commonplaceness seems to have been forced upon him by
the circumstances of his age, no less than by his special temperament. This quality of the
immitigable commonplace is clearly written on his many portraits. Their chief interest consists
in a fixed expression of fatigue--as though the man were weary with much seeking and with little
finding. In all things, he was somewhat of a dilettante; and the Nemesis of that sensibility
to impressions which distinguishes the dilettante, came upon him ere he died. He ended his
days in an appalling and persistent paroxysm of ennui, desiring the death which would not come
to his relief.

The whole creative and expansive force of Hadrian's century lay concealed in the despised Christian
sect. Art was expiring in a sunset blaze of gorgeous imitation, tasteless grandeur, technical
elaboration. Philosophy had become sophistical or mystic; its real life survived only in the
phrase 'entbehren sollst du, sollst entbehren' of the Stoics. Literature was repetitive and
scholastic. Tacitus, Suetonius, Plutarch, and Juvenal indeed were living; but their works formed
the last great literary triumph of the age. Religion had degenerated under the twofold influences
of scepticism and intrusive foreign cults. It was, in truth, an age in which, for a sound heart
and manly intellect, there lay no proper choice except between the stoicism of Marcus Aurelius
and the Christianity of the Catacombs. All else had passed into shams, unrealities, and visions.
Now Hadrian was neither stoical nor Christian, though he so far coquetted with Christianity
as to build temples dedicated to no Pagan deity, which passed in after times for unfinished
churches. He was a Græculus. In that contemptuous epithet, stripping it of its opprobrious
significance, we find the real key to his character. In a failing age he lived a restless-minded,
many-sided soldier-prince, whose inner hopes and highest aspirations were for Hellas. Hellas,
her art, her history, her myths, her literature, her lovers, her young heroes filled him with
enthusiasm. To rebuild her ruined cities, to restore her deities, to revive her golden life
of blended poetry and science, to reconstruct her spiritual empire as he had re-organised the
Roman world, was Hadrian's dream. It was indeed a dream; one which a far more creative genius
than Hadrian's could not have realised.

But now, returning to the two alternatives regarding his friend's death: was this philo-Hellenic
Emperor the man to have immolated Antinous for extispicium and then deified him? Probably not.
The discord between this bloody act and subsequent hypocrisy upon the one hand, and Hadrian's
Greek sympathies upon the other, must be reckoned too strong for even such a dipsychic character
as his. There is nothing in either Spartian or Dion to justify the opinion that he was naturally
cruel or fantastically deceitful. On the other hand, Hadrian's philo-Hellenic, splendour-loving,
somewhat tawdry, fame-desiring nature was precisely of the sort to jump eagerly at the deification
of a favourite who had either died a natural death or killed himself to save his master. Hadrian
had loved Antinous with a Greek passion in his lifetime. The Roman Emperor was half a god.
He remembered how Zeus had loved Ganymede, and raised him to Olympus; how Achilles had loved
Patroclus, and performed his funeral rites at Troy; how the demi-god Alexander had loved Hephæstion,
and lifted him into a hero's seat on high. He, Hadrian, would do the like, now that death had
robbed him of his comrade. The Roman, who surrounded himself at Tivoli with copies of Greek
temples, and who called his garden Tempe, played thus at being Zeus, Achilles, Alexander; and
the civilised world humoured his whim. Though the Sophists scoffed at his real grief and honourable
tears, they consecrated his lost favourite, found out a star for him, carved him in breathing
brass, and told tales about his sacred flower. Pancrates was entertained in Alexandria at the
public cost for his fable of the lotos; and the lyrist Mesomedes received so liberal a pension
for his hymn to Antinous that Antoninus Pius found it needful to curtail it.

After weighing the authorities, considering the circumstances of the age, and estimating Hadrian's
character, I am thus led to reject the alternative of immolation. Spartian's own words, quem
muliebriter flevit, as well as the subsequent acts of the Emperor and the acquiescence of the
whole world in the new deity, prove to my mind that in the suggestion of extispicium we have
one of those covert calumnies which it is impossible to set aside at this distance of time,
and which render the history of Roman Emperors and Popes almost impracticable.

The case, then, stands before us thus. Antinous was drowned in the Nile, near Besa, either
by accident or by voluntary suicide to save his master's life. Hadrian's love for him had been
unmeasured, so was his grief. Both of them were genuine; but in the nature of the man there
was something artificial. He could not be content to love and grieve alone; he must needs enact
the part of Alexander, and realise, if only by a sort of makebelieve, a portion of his Greek
ideal. Antinous, the beautiful servant, was to take the place of Ganymede, of Patroclus, of
Hephæstion; never mind if Hadrian was a Roman and his friend a Bithynian, and if the love between
them, as between an emperor of fifty and a boy of nineteen, had been less than heroic. The
opportunity was too fair to be missed; the rôle too fascinating to be rejected. The world,
in spite of covert sneers, lent itself to the sham, and Antinous became a god.

The uniformly contemptuous tone of antique authorities almost obliges us to rank this deification
of Antinous, together with the Tiburtine villa and the dream of a Hellenic Renaissance, among
the part-shams, part-enthusiasms of Hadrian's 'sumptuous' character. Spartian's account of
the consecration, and his hint that Hadrian composed the oracles delivered at his favourite's
tomb; Arrian's letter to the Emperor describing the island Leukè and flattering him by an adroit
comparison with Achilles; the poem by Pancrates mentioned in the 'Deipnosophistæ,' which furnished
the myth of a new lotos dedicated to Antinous; the invention of the star, and Hadrian's conversations
with his courtiers on this subject--all converge to form the belief that something of consciously
unreal mingled with this act of apotheosis by Imperial decree. Hadrian sought to assuage his
grief by paying his favourite illustrious honours after death; he also desired to give the
memory of his own love the most congenial and poetical environment, to feed upon it in the
daintiest places, and to deck it with the prettiest flowers of fancy. He therefore canonised
Antinous, and took measures for disseminating his cult throughout the world, careless of the
element of imposture which might seem to mingle with the consecration of his true affection.
Hadrian's superficial taste was not offended by the gimcrack quality of the new god; and Antinous
was saved from being a merely pinchbeck saint by his own charming personality.

This will not, however, wholly satisfy the conditions of the problem; and we are obliged to
ask ourselves whether there was not something in the character of Antinous himself, something
divinely inspired and irradiate with spiritual beauty, apparent to his fellows and remembered
after his mysterious death, which justified his canonisation, and removed it from the region
of Imperial makebelieve. If this was not the case, if Antinous died like a flower cropped from
the seraglio garden of the court-pages, how should the Emperor in the first place have bewailed
him with 'unhusbanded passion,' and the people afterwards have received him as a god? May it
not have been that he was a youth of more than ordinary promise, gifted with intellectual enthusiasms
proportioned to his beauty and endowed with something of Phoebean inspiration, who, had he
survived, might have even inaugurated a new age for the world, or have emulated the heroism
of Hypatia in a hopeless cause? Was the link between him and Hadrian formed less by the boy's
beauty than by his marvellous capacity for apprehending and his fitness for realising the Emperor's
Greek dreams? Did the spirit of neo-Platonism find in him congenial incarnation? At any rate,
was there not enough in the then current beliefs about the future of the soul, as abundantly
set forth in Plutarch's writings, to justify a conviction that after death he had already passed
into the lunar sphere, awaiting the final apotheosis of purged spirits in the sun? These questions
may be asked--indeed, they must be asked--for, without suggesting them, we leave the worship
of Antinous an almost inexplicable scandal, an almost unintelligible blot on human nature.
Unless we ask them, we must be content to echo the coarse and violent diatribes of Clemens
Alexandrinus against the vigils of the deified exoletus. But they cannot be answered, for antiquity
is altogether silent about him; only here and there, in the indignant utterance of a Christian
Father, stung to the quick by Pagan parallels between Antinous and Christ, do we catch a perverted
echo of the popular emotion upon which his cult reposed, which recognised his godhood or his
vicarious self-sacrifice, and which paid enduring tribute to the sublimity of his young life
untimely quenched.

The senatus consultum required for the apotheosis of an Emperor was not, so far as we know,
obtained in the case of Antinous. Hadrian's determination to exalt his favourite sufficed;
and this is perhaps one of the earliest instances of those informal deifications which became
common in the later Roman period. Antinous was canonised according to Greek ritual and by Greek
priests: Græci quidam volente Hadriano eum consecraverunt. How this was accomplished we know
not; but forms of canonisation must have been in common usage, seeing that emperors and members
of the Imperial family received the honour in due course. The star which was supposed to have
appeared soon after his death, and which represented his soul admitted to Olympus, was somewhere
near the constellation Aquila, according to Ptolemy, but not part of it. I believe the letters
[Greek: ê.th.i.k.l.] of Aquila now bear the name of Antinous; but this appropriation dates
only from the time of Tycho Brahe. It was also asserted that as a new star had appeared in
the skies, so a new flower had blossomed on the earth, at the moment of his death. This was
the lotos, of a peculiar red colour, which the people of Lower Egypt used to wear in wreaths
upon his festival. It received the name Antinoeian; and the Alexandrian sophist, Pancrates,
seeking to pay a double compliment to Hadrian and his favourite, wrote a poem in which he pretended
that this lily was stained with the blood of a Libyan lion slain by the Emperor. As Arrian
compared his master to Achilles, so Pancrates flattered him with allusions to Herakles. The
lotos, it is well known, was a sacred flower in Egypt. Both as a symbol of the all-nourishing
moisture of the earth and of the mystic marriage of Isis and Osiris, and also as an emblem
of immortality, it appeared on all the sacred places of the Egyptians, especially on tombs
and funeral utensils. To dignify Antinous with the lotos emblem was to consecrate him; to find
a new species of the revered blossom and to wear it in his honour, calling it by his name,
was to exalt him to the company of gods. Nothing, as it seems, had been omitted that could
secure for him the patent of divinity.

He met his death near the city Besa, an ancient Egyptian town upon the eastern bank of the
Nile, almost opposite to Hermopolis. Besa was the name of a local god, who gave oracles and
predicted future events. But of this Besa we know next to nothing. Hadrian determined to rebuild
the city, change its name, and let his favourite take the place of the old deity. Accordingly,
he raised a splendid new town in the Greek style; furnished it with temples, agora, hippodrome,
gymnasium, and baths; filled it with Greek citizens; gave it a Greek constitution, and named
it Antinoë. This new town, whether called Antinoë, Antinoopolis, Antinous, Antinoeia, or even
Besantinous (for its titles varied), continued long to flourish, and was mentioned by Ammianus
Marcellinus, together with Copton and Hermopolis, as one of the three most distinguished cities
of the Thebaïd. In the age of Julian these three cities were perhaps the only still thriving
towns of Upper Egypt. It has even been maintained on Ptolemy's authority that Antinoë was the
metropolis of a nome, called Antinoeitis; but this is doubtful, since inscriptions discovered
among the ruins of the town record no name of nomarch or strategus, while they prove the government
to have consisted of a Boulè and a Prytaneus, who was also the Eponymous Magistrate. Strabo
reckons it, together with Ptolemais and Alexandria, as governed after the Greek municipal system.

In this city Antinous was worshipped as a god. Though a Greek god, and the eponym of a Greek
city, he inherited the place and functions of an Egyptian deity, and was here represented in
the hieratic style of Ptolemaic sculpture. A fine specimen of this statuary is preserved in
the Vatican, showing how the neo-Hellenic sculptors had succeeded in maintaining the likeness
of Antinous without sacrificing the traditional manner of Egyptian piety. The sacred emblems
of Egyptian deities were added: we read, for instance, in one passage, that his shrine contained
a boat. This boat, like the mystic egg of Erôs or the cista of Dionysos, symbolised the embryo
of cosmic life. It was specially appropriated to Osiris, and suggested collateral allusions
doubtless to immortality and the soul's journey in another world. Antinous had a college of
priests appointed to his service; and oracles were delivered from the cenotaph inside his temple.
The people believed him to be a genius of warning, gracious to his suppliants, but terrible
to evil-doers, combining the qualities of the avenging and protective deities. Annual games
were celebrated in Antinoë on his festival, with chariot races and gymnastic contests; and
the fashion of keeping his day seems, from Athenæus's testimony, to have spread through Egypt.
An inscription in Greek characters discovered at Rome upon the Campus Martius entitles Antinous
a colleague of the gods in Egypt--

  [Greek: ANTINOÔI SYNTHRONÔI TÔN EN AIGUÊTÔI THEÔN].

The worship of Antinous spread rapidly through the Greek and Asian provinces, especially among
the cities which owed debts of gratitude to Hadrian or expected from him future favours. At
Athens, for example, the Emperor, attended perhaps by Antinous, had presided as Archon during
his last royal progress, had built a suburb called after his name, and raised a splendid temple
to Olympian Jove. The Athenians, therefore, founded games and a priesthood in honour of the
new divinity. Even now, in the Dionysiac theatre, among the chairs above the orchestra assigned
to priests of elder deities and more august tradition, may be found one bearing the name of
Antinous--[Greek: IEREÔS ANTINOOU]. A marble tablet has also been discovered inscribed with
the names of agonothetai for the games celebrated in honour of Antinous; and a stele exists
engraved with the crown of these contests together with the crowns of Severus, Commodus, and
Antoninus. It appears that the games in honour of Antinous took place both at Eleusis and at
Athens; and that the agonothetai, as also the priest of the new god, were chosen from the Ephebi.
The Corinthians, the Argives, the Achaians, and the Epirots, as we know from coins issued by
the priests of Antinous, adopted his cult;[1] but the region of Greece proper where it flourished
most was Arcadia, the mother state of his Bithynian birthplace. Pausanias, who lived contemporaneously
with Antinous, and might have seen him, though he tells us that he had not chanced to meet
the youth alive, mentions the temple of Antinous at Mantinea as the newest in that city. 'The
Mantineans,' he says, 'reckon Antinous among their gods.' He then describes the yearly festival
and mysteries connected with his cult, the quinquennial games established in his honour, and
his statues. The gymnasium had a cell dedicated to Antinous, adorned with pictures and fair
stone-work. The new god was in the habit of Dionysus.

    [1] For example: [Greek: OSTILIOS MARKELLOSOIEREUSTOU
    ANTINOOU ANETHÊKE TOIS ACHAIOIS] and a similar inscription
    for Corinth.

As was natural, his birthplace paid him special observance. Coins dedicated by the province
of Bithynia, as well as by the town Bithynium, are common, with the epigraphs, [Greek: ANTINOOU
Ê PATRIS] and [Greek: ANTINOON THEON Ê PATRIS]. Among the cities of Asia Minor and the vicinity
the new cult seems to have been widely spread. Adramyttene in Mysia, Alabanda, Ancyra in Galatia,
Chalcedon, Cuma in Æolis, Cyzicum in Mysia, the Ciani, the Hadrianotheritæ of Bithynia, Hierapolis
in Phrygia, Nicomedia, Philadelphia, Sardis, Smyrna, Tarsus, the Tianians of Paphlagonia, and
a town Rhesæna in Mesopotamia, all furnish their quota of medals. On the majority of these
medals he is entitled Herôs, but on others he has the higher title of god; and he seems to
have been associated in each place with some deity of local fame.

Being essentially a Greek hero, or divinised man received into the company of immortals and
worshipped with the attributes of god, his cult took firmer root among the neo-Hellenic provinces
of the empire than in Italy. Yet there are signs that even in Italy he found his votaries.
Among these may first be mentioned the comparative frequency of his name in Roman inscriptions,
which have no immediate reference to him, but prove that parents gave it to their children.
The discovery of his statues in various cities of the Roman Campagna shows that his cult was
not confined to one or two localities. Naples in particular, which remained in all essential
points a Greek city, seems to have received him with acclamation. A quarter of the town was
called after his name, and a phratria of priests was founded in connection with his worship.
The Neapolitans owed much to the patronage of Hadrian, and they repaid him after this fashion.
At the beginning of the last century Raffaello Fabretti discovered an inscription near the
Porta S. Sebastiano at Rome, which throws some light on the matter. It records the name of
a Roman knight, Sufenas, who had held the office of Lupercus and had been a fellow of the Neapolitan
phratria of Antinous--fretriaco Neapoli Antinoiton et Eunostidon. Eunostos was a hero worshipped
at Tanagra in Boeotia, where he had a sacred grove no female foot might enter; and the wording
of the inscription leaves it doubtful whether the Eunostidæ and Antinoitæ of Naples were two
separate colleges; or whether the heroes were associated as the common patrons of one brotherhood.

A valuable inscription discovered in 1816 near the Baths at Lanuvium or Lavigna shows that
Antinous was here associated with Diana as the saint of a benefit club. The rules of the confraternity
prescribe the payments and other contributions of its members, provide for their assembling
on the feast days of their patrons, fix certain fines, and regulate the ceremonies and expenses
of their funerals. This club seems to have resembled modern burial societies, as known to us
in England; or still more closely to have been formed upon the same model as Italian confraternitè
of the Middle Ages. The Lex, or table of regulations, was drawn up in the year 133 A.D. It
fixes the birthday of Antinous as v.k. Decembr., and alludes to the temple of Antinous--Tetrastylo
Antinoi. Probably we cannot build much on the birthday as a genuine date, for the same table
gives the birthday of Diana; and what was wanted was not accuracy in such matters, but a settled
anniversary for banquets and pious celebrations. When we come to consider the divinity of Antinous,
it will be of service to remember that at Lanuvium, together with Diana of the nether world,
he was reckoned among the saints of sepulture. Could this thought have penetrated the imagination
of his worshippers: that since Antinous had given his life for his friend, since he had faced
death and triumphed over it, winning immortality and godhood for himself by sacrifice, the
souls of his votaries might be committed to his charge and guidance on their journey through
the darkness of the tomb? Could we venture to infer thus much from his selection by a confraternity
existing for the purpose of securing decent burial or pious funeral rites, the date of its
formation, so soon after his death, would confirm the hypothesis that he was known to have
devoted his life for Hadrian.

While speaking of Antinous as a divinised man, adscript to the gods of Egypt, accepted as hero
and as god in Hellas, Italy, and Asia Minor, we have not yet considered the nature of his deity.
The question is not so simple as it seems at first sight: and the next step to take, with a
view to its solution, is to consider the various forms under which he was adored--the phases
of his divinity. The coins already mentioned, and the numerous works of glyptic art surviving
in the galleries of Europe, will help us to place ourselves at the same point of view as the
least enlightened of his antique votaries. Reasoning upon these data by the light of classic
texts, may afterwards enable us to assign him his true place in the Pantheon of decadent and
uninventive Paganism.

In Egypt, as we have already seen, Antinous was worshipped by the neo-Hellenes of Antinoopolis
as their Eponymous Hero; but he took the place of an elder native god, and was represented
in art according to the traditions of Egyptian sculpture. The marble statue of the Vatican
is devoid of hieratic emblems. Antinous is attired with the Egyptian head-dress and waistband:
he holds a short truncheon firmly clasped in each hand; and by his side is a palm-stump, such
as one often finds in statues of the Greek Hermes. Two colossal statues of red granite discovered
in the ruins of Hadrian's villa, at Tivoli, represent him in like manner with the usual Egyptian
head-dress. They seem to have been designed for pillars supporting the architrave of some huge
portal; and the wands grasped firmly in both hands are supposed to be symbolical of the genii
called Dii Averrunci. Von Levezow, in his monograph upon Antinous in art, catalogues five statues
of a similar description to the three already mentioned. From the indistinct character of all
of them, it would appear that Antinous was nowhere identified with any one of the great Egyptian
deities, but was treated as a Dæmon powerful to punish and protect. This designation corresponds
to the contemptuous rebuke addressed by Origen to Celsus, where he argues that the new saint
was only a malignant and vengeful spirit. His Egyptian medals are few and of questionable genuineness:
the majority of them seem to be purely Hellenic; but on one he bears a crown like that of Isis,
and on another a lotos wreath. The dim records of his cult in Egypt, and the remnants of Græco-Egyptian
art, thus mark him out as one of the Averruncan deities, associated perhaps with Kneph or the
Agathodæmon of Hellenic mythology, or approximated to Anubis, the Egyptian Hermes. Neither
statues nor coins throw much light upon his precise place among those gods of Nile whose throne
he is said to have ascended. Egyptian piety may not have been so accommodating as that of Hellas.

With the Græco-Roman world the case is different. We obtain a clearer conception of the Antinous
divinity, and recognise him always under the mask of youthful gods already honoured with fixed
ritual. To worship even living men under the names and attributes of well-known deities was
no new thing in Hellas. We may remember the Ithyphallic hymn with which the Athenians welcomed
Demetrius Poliorkêtes, the marriage of Anthony as Dionysus to Athenè, and the deification of
Mithridates as Bacchus. The Roman Emperors had already been represented in art with the characteristics
of gods--Nero, for example, as Phoebus, and Hadrian as Mars. Such compliments were freely paid
to Antinous. On the Achaian coins we find his portrait on the obverse, with different types
of Hermes on the reverse, varied in one case by the figure of a ram, in another by the representation
of a temple, in a third by a nude hero grasping a spear. One Mysian medal, bearing the epigraph
'Antinous Iacchus,' represents him crowned with ivy, and exhibits Demeter on the reverse. A
single specimen from Ancyra, with the legend 'Antinous Herôs,' depicts the god Lunus carrying
a crescent moon upon his shoulder. The Bithynian coins generally give youthful portraits of
Antinous upon the obverse, with the title of 'Herôs' or 'Theos;' while the reverse is stamped
with a pastoral figure, sometimes bearing the talaria, sometimes accompanied by a feeding ox
or a boar or a star. This youth is supposed to be Philesius, the son of Hermes. In one specimen
of the Bithynian series the reverse yields a head of Proserpine crowned with thorns. A coin
of Chalcedon ornaments the reverse with a griffin seated near a naked figure. Another, from
Corinth, bears the sun-god in a chariot; another, from Cuma, presents an armed Pallas. Bulls,
with the crescent moon, occur in the Hadrianotheritan medals: a crescent moon in that of Hierapolis:
a ram and star, a female head crowned with towers, a standing bull, and Harpocrates placing
one finger on his lips, in those of Nicomedia; a horned moon and star in that of Epirot Nicopolis.
One Philadelphian coin is distinguished by Antinous in a temple with four columns; another
by an Aphrodite in her cella. The Sardian coins give Zeus with the thunderbolt, or Phoebus
with the lyre; those of Smyrna are stamped with a standing ox, a ram, and the caduceus, a female
panther and the thyrsus, or a hero reclining beneath a plane-tree; those of Tarsus with the
Dionysian cista, the Phoebean tripod, the river Cydnus, and the epigraphs 'Neos Puthios,' 'Neos
Iacchos;' those of the Tianians with Antinous as Bacchus on a panther, or, in one case, as
Poseidôn.

It would be unsafe to suppose that the emblems of the reverse in each case had a necessary
relation to Antinous, whose portrait is almost invariably represented on the obverse. They
may refer, as in the case of the Tarsian river-god, to the locality in which the medal was
struck. Yet the frequent occurrence of the well-known type with the attributes and sacred animals
of various deities, and the epigraphs 'Neos Puthios' or 'Neos Iacchos,' justify us in assuming
that he was associated with divinities in vogue among the people who accepted his cult--especially
Apollo, Dionysus, and Hermes. On more than one coin he is described as Antinous-Pan, showing
that his Arcadian compatriots of Peloponnese and Bithynia paid him the compliment of placing
him beside their great local deity. In a Latin inscription discovered at Tibur, he is connected
with the sun-god of Noricia, Pannonia and Illyria, who was worshipped under the title of Belenus:--

  Antinoo et Beleno par ætas famaque par est;
    Cur non Antinous sit quoque qui Belenus?

This couplet sufficiently explains the ground of his adscription to the society of gods distinguished
for their beauty. Both Belenus and Antinous are young and beautiful: why, therefore, should
not Antinous be honoured equally with Belenus? The same reasoning would apply to all his impersonations.
The pious imagination or the æsthetic taste tricked out this favourite of fortune in masquerade
costumes, just as a wealthy lover may amuse himself by dressing his mistress after the similitude
of famous beauties. The analogy of statues confirms this assumption. A considerable majority
represent him as Dionysus Kisseus: in some of the best he is conceived as Hermes of the Palæstra
or a simple hero: in one he is probably Dionysus Antheus; in another Vertumnus or Aristæus;
yet again he is the Agathos Daimon: while a fine specimen preserved in England shows him as
Ganymede raising a goblet of wine: a little statue in the Louvre gives him the attributes of
youthful Herakles; a basrelief of somewhat doubtful genuineness in the Villa Albani exhibits
him with Romanised features in the character perhaps of Castor. Again, I am not sure whether
the Endymion in the celebrated basrelief of the Capitol does not yield a portrait of Antinous.

This rapid enumeration will suffice to show that Antinous was universally conceived as a young
deity in bloom, and that preference was given to Phoebus and Iacchus, the gods of divination
and enthusiasm, for his associates. In some cases he appears to have been represented as a
simple hero without the attributes of any deity. Many of his busts, and the fine nude statues
of the Capitol and the Neapolitan Museum, belong to this class, unless we recognise the two
last as Antinous under the form of a young Hercules, or of the gymnastic Hermes. But when he
comes before us with the title of Puthios, or with the attributes of Dionysus, distinct reference
is probably intended in the one case to his oracular quality, in the other to the enthusiasm
which led to his death. Allusions to Harpocrates, Lunus, Aristæus, Philesius, Vertumnus, Castor,
Herakles, Ganymedes, show how the divinising fancy played around the beauty of his youth, and
sought to connect him with myths already honoured in the pious conscience. Lastly, though it
would be hazardous to strain this point, we find in his chief impersonations a Chthonian character,
a touch of the mystery that is shrouded in the world beyond the grave. The double nature of
his Athenian cult may perhaps confirm this view. But, over and above all these symbolic illustrations,
one artistic motive of immortal loveliness pervades and animates the series.

It becomes at this point of some moment to determine what was the relation of Antinous to the
gods with whom he blended, and whose attributes he shared. It seems tolerably certain that
he had no special legend which could be idealised in art. The mythopoeic fancy invented no
fable for him. His cult was parasitic upon elder cults. He was the colleague of greater well-established
deities, from whom he borrowed a pale and evanescent lustre. Speaking accurately, he was a
hero or divinised mortal, on the same grade as Helen immortalised for her beauty, as Achilles
for his prowess, or as Herakles for his great deeds. But having no poet like Homer to sing
his achievements, no myth fertile in emblems, he dwelt beneath the shadow of superior powers,
and crept into a place with them. What was this place worth? What was the meaning attached
by his votaries to the title [Greek: synthronos] or [Greek: paredros theos]? According to the
simple meaning of both epithets, he occupied a seat together with or by the side of the genuine
Olympians. In this sense Pindar called Dionysus the [Greek: paredros] of Demeter, because the
younger god had been admitted to her worship on equal terms at Eleusis. In this sense Sophocles
spoke of Himeros as [Greek: paredros] of the eternal laws, and of Justice as [Greek: synoikos]
with the Chthonian deities. In this sense Euripides makes Helen [Greek: xynthakos] with her
brethren, the Dioscuri. In this sense the three chief Archons at Athens were said to have two
[Greek: paredroi] apiece. In this sense, again, Hephæstion was named a [Greek: theos paredros],
and Alexander in his lifetime was voted a thirteenth in the company of the twelve Olympians.
The divinised emperors were [Greek: paredroi] or [Greek: synthronoi]; nor did Virgil hesitate
to flatter Augustus by questioning into which college of the immortals he would be adscript
after death--

  Tuque adeo, quem mox quæ sint habitura deorum
  Concilia, incertum est.

Conscript deities of this heroic order were supposed to avert evils from their votaries, to
pursue offenders with calamity, to inspire prophetic dreams, and to appear, as the phantom
of Achilles appeared to Apollonius of Tyana, and answer questions put to them. They corresponded
very closely and exactly to the saints of mediævalism, acting as patrons of cities, confraternities,
and persons, and interposing between the supreme powers of heaven and their especial devotees.
As a [Greek: paredros] of this exalted quality, Antinous was the associate of Phoebus, Bacchus,
and Hermes among the Olympians, and a colleague with the gods of Nile. The principal difficulty
of grasping his true rank consists in the variety of his emblems and divine disguises.

It must here be mentioned that the epithet [Greek: paredros] had a secondary and inferior signification.
It was applied by later authors to the demons or familiar spirits who attended upon enchanters
like Simon Magus or Apollonius; and such satellites were believed to be supplied by the souls
of innocent young persons violently slain. Whether this secondary meaning of the title indicates
a degeneration of the other, and forms the first step of the process whereby classic heroes
were degraded into the foul fiends of mediæval fancy, or whether we find in it a wholly new
application of the word, is questionable. I am inclined to believe that, while [Greek: paredros
theos] in the one case means an associate of the Olympian gods, [Greek: paredros daimôn] in
the other means a fellow-agent and assessor of the wizard. In other words, however they may
afterwards have been confounded, the two uses of the same epithet were originally distinct:
so that not every [Greek: paredros theos], Achilles, or Hephæstion or Antinous, was supposed
to haunt and serve a sorcerer, but only some inferior spirit over whom his black art gave him
authority. The [Greek: paredros theos] was so called because he sat with the great gods. The
[Greek: paredros daimôn] was so called because he sat beside the magician. At the same time
there seems sufficient evidence that the two meanings came to be confounded; and as the divinities
of Hellas, with all their lustrous train, paled before the growing splendour of Christ, they
gradually fell beneath the necromantic ferule of the witch.

Returning from this excursion, and determining that Antinous was a hero or divinised mortal,
adscript to the college of the greater gods, and invested with many of their attributes, we
may next ask the question, why this artificial cult, due in the first place to imperial passion
and caprice, and nourished by the adulation of fawning provinces, was preserved from the rapid
dissolution to which the flimsy products of court-flattery are subject. The mythopoetic faculty
was extinct, or in its last phase of decadent vitality. There was nothing in the life of Antinous
to create a legend or to stimulate the sense of awe; and yet this worship persisted long after
the fear of Hadrian had passed away, long after the benefits to be derived by humouring a royal
fancy had been exhausted, long after anything could be gained by playing out the farce. It
is clear, from a passage in Clemens Alexandrinus, that the sacred nights of Antinous were observed,
at least a century after the date of his deification, with an enthusiasm that roused the anger
of the Christian Father. Again, it is worthy of notice that, while many of the noblest works
of antiquity have perished, the statues of Antinous have descended to us in fair preservation
and in very large numbers. From the contemptuous destruction which erased the monuments of
base men in the Roman Empire they were safe; and the state in which we have them shows how
little they had suffered from neglect. The most rational conclusion seems to be that Antinous
became in truth a popular saint, and satisfied some new need in Paganism, for which none of
the elder and more respectable deities sufficed. The novelty of his cult had, no doubt, something
to do with the fascination it exercised; and something may be attributed to the impulse art
received from the introduction of so rare and original a type of beauty into the exhausted
cycle of mythical subjects. The blending of Greek and Egyptian elements was also attractive
to an age remarkable for its eclecticism. But after allowing for the many adventitious circumstances
which concurred to make Antinous the fashion, it is hardly unreasonable to assume that the
spirit of poetry in the youth's story, the rumour of his self-devoted death, kept him alive
in the memory of the people. It is just that element of romance in the tale of his last hours,
that preservative association with the pathos of self-sacrifice, which forms the interest we
still feel for him.

The deified Antinous was therefore for the Roman world a charming but dimly felt and undeveloped
personality, made perfect by withdrawal into an unseen world of mystery. The belief in the
value of vicarious suffering attached itself to his beautiful and melancholy form. His sorrow
borrowed something of the universal world-pain, more pathetic than the hero-pangs of Herakles,
the anguish of Prometheus, or the passion of Iacchus-Zagreus, because more personal and less
suggestive of a cosmic mystery. The ancient cries of Ah Linus, Ah Adonis, found in him an echo.
For votaries ready to accept a new god as simply as we accept a new poet, he was the final
manifestation of an old-world mystery, the rejuvenescence of a well-known incarnation, the
semi-Oriental realisation of a recurring Avatar. And if we may venture on so bold a surmise,
this last flower of antique mythology had taken up into itself a portion of the blood outpoured
on Calvary. Planted in the conservatory of semi-philosophical yearnings, faintly tinctured
with the colours of misapprehended Christianity, without inherent stamina, without the powerful
nutrition which the earlier heroic fables had derived from the spiritual vigour of a truly
mythopoeic age, the cult of Antinous subsisted as an echo, a reflection, the last serious effort
of deifying but no longer potent Paganism, the last reverberation of its oracles, an æsthetic
rather than a religious product, viewed even in its origin with sarcasm by the educated, and
yet sufficiently attractive to enthral the minds of simple votaries, and to survive the circumstances
of its first creation. It may be remembered that the century which witnessed the canonisation
of Antinous, produced the myth of Cupid and Psyche--or, if this be too sweeping an assertion,
gave it final form, and handed it, in its suggestive beauty, to the modern world. Thus at one
and the same moment the dying spirit of Hellas seized upon those doctrines of self-devotion
and immortality which, through the triumph of Christian teaching, were gaining novel and incalculable
value for the world. According to its own laws of inspiration, it stamped both legends of Love
victorious over Death, with beautiful form in myth and poem and statuary.

That we are not altogether unjustified in drawing this conclusion may be gathered from the
attitude assumed by the Christian apologists toward Antinous. There is more than the mere hatred
of a Pagan hero, more than the bare indignation at a public scandal, in their acrimony. Accepting
the calumnious insinuations of Dion Cassius, these gladiators of the new faith found a terrible
rhetorical weapon ready to their hands in the canonisation of a court favourite. Prudentius,
Clemens Alexandrinus, Tertullian, Eusebius, Justin Martyr, Athanasius, Tatian--all inveigh,
in nearly the same terms, against the Emperor's Ganymede, exalted to the skies, and worshipped
with base fear and adulation by abject slaves. But in Origen, arguing with Celsus, we find
a somewhat different keynote struck. Celsus, it appears, had told the story of Antinous, and
had compared his cult with that of Christ. Origen replies justly, that there was nothing in
common between the lives of Antinous and of Christ, and that his supposed divinity is a fiction.
We can discern in this response an echo of the faith which endeared Antinous to his Pagan votaries.
Antinous was hated by the Christians as a rival; insignificant, it is true, and unworthy, but
still of sufficient force to be regarded and persecuted. If Antinous had been utterly contemptible,
if he had not gained some firm hold upon the piety of Græco-Roman Paganism, Celsus could hardly
have ventured to rest an argument upon his worship, nor would Origen have chosen to traverse
that argument with solid reasoning, instead of passing it by in rhetorical silence. Nothing
is more difficult than to understand the conditions of that age or to sympathise with its dominant
passions. Educated as we have been in the traditions of the finally triumphant Christian faith,
warmed through and through as we are by its summer glow and autumn splendour, believing as
we do in the adequacy of its spirit to satisfy the cravings of the human heart, how can we
comprehend a moment in its growth when the divinised Antinous was not merely an object offensive
to the moral sense, but also a parody dangerous to the pure form of Christ?

It remains to say somewhat of Antinous as he appears in art. His place in classic sculpture
corresponds to his position in antique mythology. The Antinous statues and coins are reflections
of earlier artistic masterpieces, executed with admirable skill, but lacking original faculty
for idealisation in the artists. Yet there is so much personal attraction in his type, his
statues are so manifestly faithful portraits, and we find so great a charm of novelty in his
delicately perfect individuality, that the life-romance which they reveal, as through a veil
of mystery, has force enough to make them rank among the valuable heirlooms of antiquity. We
could almost believe that, while so many gods and heroes of Greece have perished, Antinous
has been preserved in all his forms and phases for his own most lovely sake; as though, according
to Ghiberti's exquisite suggestion, gentle souls in the first centuries of Christianity had
spared this blameless youth, and hidden him away with tender hands, in quiet places, from the
fury of iconoclasts. Nor is it impossible that the great vogue of his worship was due among
the Pagan laity to this same fascination of pure beauty. Could a more graceful temple of the
body have been fashioned, after the Platonic theory, for the habitation of a guileless, god-inspired,
enthusiastic soul? The personality of Antinous, combined with the suggestion of his self-devoted
death, made him triumphant in art as in the affections of the pious.

It would be an interesting task to compose a catalogue raisonné of Antinous statues and basreliefs,
and to discuss the question of their mythological references. This is, however, not the place
for such an inquiry. And yet I cannot quit Antinous without some retrospect upon the most important
of his portraits. Among the simple busts, by far the finest, to my thinking, are the colossal
head of the Louvre, and the ivy-crowned bronze at Naples. The latter is not only flawless in
its execution, but is animated with a pensive beauty of expression. The former, though praised
by Winckelmann, as among the two or three most precious masterpieces of antique art, must be
criticised for a certain vacancy and lifelessness. Of the heroic statues, the two noblest are
those of the Capitol and Naples. The identity of the Capitoline Antinous has only once, I think,
been seriously questioned; and yet it may be reckoned more than doubtful. The head is almost
certainly not his. How it came to be placed upon a body presenting so much resemblance to the
type of Antinous I do not know. Careful comparison of the torso and the arms with an indubitable
portrait will even raise the question whether this fine statue is not a Hermes or a hero of
an earlier age. Its attitude suggests Narcissus or Adonis; and under either of these forms
Antinous may properly have been idealised. The Neapolitan marble, on the contrary, yields the
actual Antinous in all the exuberant fulness of his beauty. Head, body, pose, alike bring him
vividly before us, forming an undoubtedly authentic portrait. The same personality, idealised,
it is true, but rather suffering than gaining by the process, is powerfully impressed upon
the colossal Dionysus of the Vatican. What distinguishes this great work is the inbreathed
spirit of divinity, more overpowering here than in any other of the extant [Greek: andriantes
kai agalmata]. The basrelief of the Villa Albani, restored to suit the conception of a Vertumnus,
has even more of florid beauty; but whether the restoration was wisely made may be doubted.
It is curious to compare this celebrated masterpiece of technical dexterity with another basrelief
in the Villa Albani, representing Antinous as Castor. He is standing, half clothed with the
chlamys, by a horse. His hair is close-cropped, after the Roman fashion, cut straight above
the forehead, but crowned with a fillet of lotos-buds. The whole face has a somewhat stern
and frowning Roman look of resolution, contrasting with the mild benignity of the Bacchus statues,
and the almost sulky voluptuousness of the busts. In the Lateran Museum Antinous appears as
a god of flowers, holding in his lap a multitude of blossoms, and wearing on his head a wreath.
The conception of this statue provokes comparison with the Flora of the Neapolitan Museum.
I should like to recognise in it a Dionysus Antheus, rather than one of the more prosy Roman
gods of horticulture. Not unworthy to rank with these first-rate portraits of Antinous is a
Ganymede, engraved by the Dilettante Society, which represents him standing alert, in one hand
holding the wine-jug and in the other lifting a cup aloft. It will be seen from even this brief
enumeration of a few among the statues of Antinous, how many and how various they are. One,
however, remains still to be discussed, which, so far as concerns the story of Antinous, is
by far the most interesting of all. As a work of art, to judge by photographs, it is inferior
to others in execution and design. Yet could we but understand its meaning clearly, the mystery
of Antinous would be solved: the key to the whole matter probably lies here; but, alas! we
know not how to use it. I speak of the Ildefonso Group at Madrid.[1]

    [1] See Frontispiece.

On one pedestal there are three figures in white marble. To the extreme right of the spectator
stands a little female statue of a goddess, in archaistic style, crowned with the calathos,
and holding a sphere, probably of pomegranate fruit, to her breast. To the left of this image
are two young men, three times the height of the goddess, quite naked, standing one on each
side of a low altar. Both are crowned with a wreath of leaves and berries--laurel or myrtle.
The youth to the right, next the image, holds a torch in either hand: with the right he turns
the flaming point downwards, till it lies upon the altar; with the left he lifts the other
torch aloft, and rests it on his shoulder. He has a beautiful Græco-Roman face, touched with
sadness or ineffable reflection. The second youth leans against his comrade, resting his left
arm across the other's back, and this hand is lightly placed upon the shoulder, close to the
lifted torch. His right arm is bent, and so placed that the hand just cuts the line of the
pelvis a little above the hip. The weight of his body is thrown principally upon the right
leg; the left foot is drawn back, away from the altar. It is the attitude of the Apollo Sauroctonos.
His beautiful face, bent downward, is intently gazing with a calm, collected, serious, and
yet sad cast of earnest meditation. His eyes seem fixed on something beyond him and beneath
him--as it were on an inscrutable abyss; and in this direction also looks his companion. The
face is unmistakably the face of Antinous; yet the figure, and especially the legs, are not
characteristic. They seem modelled after the conventional type of the Greek Ephebus. Parts
of the two torches and the lower half of the right arm of Antinous are restorations.

Such is the Ildefonso marble; and it may be said that its execution is hard and rough--the
arms of both figures are carelessly designed; the hands and fingers are especially angular,
elongated, and ill-formed. But there is a noble feeling in the whole group, notwithstanding.
F. Tieck, the sculptor and brother of the poet, was the first to suggest that we have here
Antinous, the Genius of Hadrian, and Persephone.[1] He also thought that the self-immolation
of Antinous was indicated by the loving, leaning attitude of the younger man, and by his melancholy
look of resolution. The same view, in all substantial points, is taken by Friedrichs, author
of a work on Græco-Roman sculpture. But Friedrichs, while admitting the identity of the younger
figure with Antinous, and recognising Persephone in the archaic image, is not prepared to accept
the elder as the Genius of Hadrian; and it must be confessed that this face does not bear any
resemblance to the portraits of the Emperor. According to his interpretation, the Dæmon is
kindling the fire upon the sacrificial altar with the depressed torch; and the second or lifted
torch must be supposed to have been needed for the performance of some obscure rite of immolation.
What Friedrichs fails to elucidate is the trustful attitude of Antinous, who could scarcely
have been conceived as thus affectionately reclining on the shoulder of a merely sacrificial
dæmon; nor is there anything upon the altar to kindle. It must, however, be conceded that the
imperfection of the marble at this point leaves the restoration of the altar and the torch
upon it doubtful.

    [1] See the article on Antinous, by Victor Rydberg, in the
    Svensk Tidskrift för Litteratur, Politik, och Ekonomi.
    1875, Stockholm. Also Karl Bötticher, Königliches Museum,
    Erklärendes Verzeichniss. Berlin, 1871.

Charles Bötticher started a new solution of the principal problem. According to him, it was
executed in the lifetime of Antinous; and it represents not a sacrifice of death, but a sacrifice
of fidelity on the part of the two friends, Hadrian and Antinous, who have met together before
Persephone to ratify a vow of love till death. He suggests that the wreaths are of stephanotis,
that large-leaved myrtle, which was sacred to the Chthonian goddesses after the liberation
of Semele from Hades by her son Dionysus. With reference to such ceremonies between Greek comrades,
Bötticher cites a vase upon which Theseus and Peirithous are sacrificing in the temple of Persephone;
and he assumes that there may have existed Athenian groups in marble representing similar vows
of friendship, from which Hadrian had this marble copied. He believes that the Genius of Hadrian
is kindling one torch at the sacred fire, which he will reach to Antinous, while he holds the
other in readiness to kindle for himself. This explanation is both ingenious and beautiful.
It has also the great merit of explaining the action of the right arm of Antinous. Yet it is
hardly satisfactory. It throws no light upon the melancholy and solemnity of both figures,
which irresistibly suggest a funereal rather than a joyous rite. Antinous is not even looking
at the altar, and the meditative curves of his beautiful reclining form indicate anything rather
than the spirited alacrity with which a friend would respond to his comrade's call at such
a moment. Besides, why should not the likeness of Hadrian have been preserved as well as that
of Antinous, if the group commemorated an act of their joint will? On the other hand, we must
admit that the altar itself is not dressed for a funereal sacrifice.

It has been pointed out that in the British Museum there exists a basrelief of Homer's apotheosis
where we notice a figure holding two torches. Is it, then, possible that the Ildefonso marble
may express, not the sacrifice, but the apotheosis of Antinous, and that the Genius who holds
the two torches is conferring on him immortality? The lifted torch would symbolise his new
life, and the depressed torch would stand for the life he had devoted. According to this explanation,
the sorrowful expression of Antinous must indicate the agony of death through which he passed
into the company of the undying. Against this interpretation is the fact that we have no precise
authority for the symbolism of the torches, except only the common inversion of the life-brand
by the Genius of Death.

Yet another solution may be suggested. Assuming that we have before us a sacrificial ceremony,
and that the group was executed after the self-devotion of Antinous had passed into the popular
belief, we may regard the elder youth as either the Genius of the Emperor, separate in spirit
from Hadrian himself and presiding over his destinies, who accepts the offer of Antinous with
solemn calmness suited to so great a gift; or else as the Genius of the Roman people, witnessing
the same act in the same majestic spirit. This view finds some support in the abstract ideality
of the torch-bearer, who is clearly no historical personage as Antinous himself is, but rather
a power controlling his fate. The interpretation of the two torches remains very difficult.
In the torch flung down upon the flameless and barren altar we might recognise a symbol of
Hadrian's life upon the point of extinction, but not yet extinguished; and in the torch lifted
aloft we might find a metaphor of life resuscitated and exalted. Nor is it perhaps without
significance that the arm of the self-immolating youth meets the upraised torch, as though
to touch the life which he will purchase with his death. There is, however, the objection stated
above to this bold use of symbolism.

In support of any explanation which ascribes this group to a period later than the canonisation
of Antinous, it may be repeated that the execution is inferior to that of almost all the other
statues of the hero. Is it possible, then, that it belongs to a subsequent date, when art was
further on the wane, but when the self-devotion of Antinous had become a dogma of his cult?

After all is said, the Ildefonso marble, like the legend of Antinous, remains a mystery. Only
hypotheses, more or less ingenious, more or less suited to our sympathies, varying between
Casaubon's coarse vilification and Rydberg's roseate vision, are left us.

As a last note on the subject of Antinous let me refer to Raphael's statue of Jonah in the
Chigi Chapel of S. Maria del Popolo at Rome. Raphael, who handled the myth of Cupid and Psyche
so magnificently in the Villa Farnesina of his patron Agostino Chigi, dedicated a statue of
Antinous--the only statue he ever executed in marble--under the title of a Hebrew prophet in
a Christian sanctuary. The fact is no less significant than strange. During the early centuries
of Christianity, as is amply proved by the sarcophagi in the Lateran Museum, Jonah symbolised
self-sacrifice and immortality. He was a type of Christ, an emblem of the Christian's hope
beyond the grave. During those same centuries Antinous represented the same ideas, however
inadequately, however dimly, for the unlettered laity of Paganism. It could scarcely have been
by accident, or by mere admiration for the features of Antinous, that Raphael, in his marble,
blent the Christian and the Pagan traditions. To unify and to transcend the double views of
Christianity and Paganism in a work of pure art was Raphael's instinctive, if not his conscious,
aim. Nor is there a more striking instance of this purpose than the youthful Jonah with the
head of Hadrian's favourite. Leonardo's Dionysus-John-the-Baptist seems but a careless jeu
d'esprit compared with this profound and studied symbol of renascent humanism. Thus to regard
the Jonah-Antinous of the Cappella Chigi as a type of immortality and self-devotion, fusing
Christian and Græco-Roman symbolism in one work of modern art, is the most natural interpretation;
but it would not be impossible to trace in it a metaphor of the resurgent Pagan spirit also--as
though, leaving Jonah and his Biblical associations in the background, the artist had determined
that from the mouth of the monstrous grave should issue not a bearded prophet, but the victorious
youth who had captivated with his beauty and his heroism the sunset age of the classic world.
At any rate, whatever may have been Raphael's intention, the legend of Antinous, that last
creation of antique mythology, shines upon us in this marble, just as the tale of Hero and
Leander, that last blossom of antique literature, flowers afresh in the verses of our Marlowe.
It would appear as though the Renaissance poets, hastening to meet the classic world with arms
of welcome, had embraced its latest saints, as nearest to them, in the rapture of their first
enthusiasm.

Over all these questions, over all that concerns Antinous, there rests a cloud of darkness
and impenetrable doubt. To pierce that cloud is now impossible. The utmost we can do is to
indulge our fancy in dreams of greater or less probability, and to mark out clearly the limitations
of the subject. It is indeed something to have shown that the stigma of slavery and disgrace
attaching to his name has no solid historical justification, and something to have suggested
plausible reasons for conjecturing that his worship had a genuine spiritual basis. Yet the
sincere critic, at the end of the whole inquiry, will confess that he has only cast a plummet
into the unfathomable sea of ignorance. What remains, immortal, indestructible, victorious,
is Antinous in art. Against the gloomy background of doubt, calumny, contention, terrible surmise,
his statues are illuminated with the dying glory of the classic genius--even as the towers
and domes of a marble city shine forth from the purple banks of a thunder-cloud in sunset light.
Here and here only does reality emerge from the chaos of conflicting phantoms. Front to front
with them, it is allowed us to forget all else but the beauty of one who died young because
the gods loved him. But when we question those wonderful mute features and beg them for their
secret, they return no answer. There is not even a smile upon the parted lips. So profound
is the mystery, so insoluble the enigma, that from its most importunate interrogation we derive
nothing but an attitude of deeper reverence. This in itself, however, is worth the pains of
study.[1]

    [1] I must here express my indebtedness to my friend H.F.
    Brown for a large portion of the materials used by me in
    this essay on Antinous, which I had no means at Davos
    Platz of accumulating for myself, and which he unearthed
    from the libraries of Florence in the course of his own
    work, and generously placed at my disposal.

AMALFI, PÆSTUM, CAPRI

The road between Vietri and Amalfi is justly celebrated as one of the most lovely pieces of
coast scenery in Italy. Its only rivals are the roads from Castellammare to Sorrento, from
Genoa to Sestri, and from Nice to Mentone. Each of these has its own charm; and yet their similarity
is sufficient to invite comparison: under the spell of each in turn, we are inclined to say,
This then, at all events, is the most beautiful. On first quitting Vietri, Salerno is left
low down upon the sea-shore, nestling into a little corner of the bay which bears its name,
and backed up by gigantic mountains. With each onward step these mountain-ranges expand in
long aërial line, revealing reaches of fantastic peaks, that stretch away beyond the plain
of Pæstum, till they end at last in mist and sunbeams shimmering on the sea. On the left hand
hangs the cliff above the deep salt water, with here and there a fig-tree spreading fanlike
leaves against the blue beneath. On the right rises the hillside, clothed with myrtle, lentisk,
cistus, and pale yellow coronilla--a tangle as sweet with scent as it is gay with blossom.
Over the parapet that skirts the precipice lean heavy-foliaged locust-trees, and the terraces
in sunny nooks are set with lemon-orchards. There are but few olives, and no pines. Meanwhile
each turn in the road brings some change of scene--now a village with its little beach of grey
sand, lapped by clearest sea-waves, where bare-legged fishermen mend their nets, and naked
boys bask like lizards in the sun--now towering bastions of weird rock, broken into spires
and pinnacles like those of Skye, and coloured with bright hues of red and orange--then a ravine,
where the thin thread of a mountain streamlet seems to hang suspended upon ferny ledges in
the limestone--or a precipice defined in profile against sea and sky, with a lad, half dressed
in goat-skin, dangling his legs into vacuity and singing--or a tract of cultivation, where
the orange, apricot, and lemon trees nestle together upon terraces with intermingled pergolas
of vines.

Amalfi and Atrani lie close together in two of these ravines, the mountains almost arching
over them, and the sea washing their very house-walls. Each has its crowning campanile; but
that of Amalfi is the stranger of the two, like a Moorish tower at the top, and coloured with
green and yellow tiles that glitter in the sunlight. The houses are all dazzling white, plastered
against the naked rock, rising on each other's shoulders to get a glimpse of earth and heaven,
jutting out on coigns of vantage from the toppling cliff, and pierced with staircases as dark
as night at noonday. Some frequented lanes lead through the basements of these houses; and
as the donkeys pick their way from step to step in the twilight, bare-chested macaroni-makers
crowd forth like ants to see us strangers pass. A myriad of swallows or a swarm of mason bees
might build a town like this.

It is not easy to imagine the time when Amalfi and Atrani were one town, with docks and arsenals
and harbourage for their associated fleets, and when these little communities were second in
importance to no naval power of Christian Europe. The Byzantine Empire lost its hold on Italy
during the eighth century; and after this time the history of Calabria is mainly concerned
with the republics of Naples and Amalfi, their conflict with the Lombard dukes of Benevento,
their opposition to the Saracens, and their final subjugation by the Norman conquerors of Sicily.
Between the year 839 A.D., when Amalfi freed itself from the control of Naples and the yoke
of Benevento, and the year 1131, when Roger of Hauteville incorporated the republic in his
kingdom of the Two Sicilies, this city was the foremost naval and commercial port of Italy.
The burghers of Amalfi elected their own doge; founded the Hospital of Jerusalem, whence sprang
the knightly order of S. John; gave their name to the richest quarter in Palermo; and owned
trading establishments or factories in all the chief cities of the Levant. Their gold coinage
of tari formed the standard of currency before the Florentines had stamped the lily and S.
John upon the Tuscan florin. Their shipping regulations supplied Europe with a code of maritime
laws. Their scholars, in the darkest depth of the dark ages, prized and conned a famous copy
of the Pandects of Justinian; and their seamen deserved the fame of having first used, if they
did not actually invent, the compass.

To modern visitors those glorious centuries of Amalfitan power and independence cannot but
seem fabulous; so difficult is it for us to imagine the conditions of society in Europe when
a tiny city, shut in between barren mountains and a tideless sea, without a circumjacent territory,
and with no resources but piracy or trade, could develop maritime supremacy in the Levant and
produce the first fine flowers of liberty and culture.

If the history of Amalfi's early splendour reads like a brilliant legend, the story of its
premature extinction has the interest of a tragedy. The republic had grown and flourished on
the decay of the Greek Empire. When the hard-handed race of Hauteville absorbed the heritage
of Greeks and Lombards and Saracens in Southern Italy, these adventurers succeeded in annexing
Amalfi. But it was not their interest to extinguish the state. On the contrary, they relied
for assistance upon the navies and the armies of the little commonwealth. New powers had meanwhile
arisen in the North of Italy, who were jealous of rivalry upon the open seas; and when the
Neapolitans resisted King Roger in 1135, they called Pisa to their aid, and sent her fleet
to destroy Amalfi. The ships of Amalfi were on guard with Roger's navy in the Bay of Naples.
The armed citizens were, under Roger's orders, at Aversa. Meanwhile the home of the republic
lay defenceless on its mountain-girdled seaboard. The Pisans sailed into the harbour, sacked
the city, and carried off the famous Pandects of Justinian as a trophy. Two years later they
returned, to complete the work of devastation. Amalfi never recovered from the injuries and
the humiliation of these two attacks. It was ever thus that the Italians, like the children
of the dragon's teeth which Cadmus sowed, consumed each other. Pisa cut the throat of her sister-port
Amalfi, and Genoa gave a mortal wound to Pisa, when the waters of Meloria were dyed with blood
in 1284. Venice fought a duel to the death with Genoa in the succeeding century; and what Venice
failed to accomplish was completed by Milan and the lords of the Visconti dynasty, who crippled
and enslaved the haughty queen of the Ligurian Riviera.

The naval and commercial prosperity of Amalfi was thus put an end to by the Pisans in the twelfth
century. But it was not then that the town assumed its present aspect. What surprises the student
of history more than anything is the total absence of fortifications, docks, arsenals, and
breakwaters, bearing witness to the ancient grandeur of a city which numbered 50,000 inhabitants,
and traded with Alexandria, Syria, and the far East. Nothing of the sort, with the exception
of a single solitary tower upon the Monte Aureo, is visible. Nor will he fail to remember that
Amalfi and Atrani, which are now divided by a jutting mountain buttress, were once joined by
a tract of sea-beach, where the galleys of the republic rested after sweeping the Levant, and
where the fishermen drew up their boats upon the smooth grey sand. That also has disappeared.
The violence of man was not enough to reduce Amalfi to its present state of insignificance.
The forces of nature aided--partly by the gradual subsidence of the land, which caused the
lower quarters of the city to be submerged, and separated Amalfi from her twin-port by covering
the beach with water--partly by a fearful tempest, accompanied by earthquake, in 1343. Petrarch,
then resident at Naples, witnessed the destructive fury of this great convulsion, and the description
he wrote of it soon after its occurrence is so graphic that some notice may well be taken of
it here.

His letter, addressed to the noble Roman, Giovanni Colonna, begins with a promise to tell something
of a storm which deserved the title of 'poetic,' and in a degree so superlative that no epithet
but 'Homeric' would suffice to do it justice. This exordium is singularly characteristic of
Petrarch, who never forgot that he was a literary man, and lost no opportunity of dragging
the great names of antiquity into his rhetorical compositions. The catastrophe was hardly unexpected;
for it had been prophesied by an astrological bishop, whom Petrarch does not name, that Naples
would be overwhelmed by a terrible disaster in December 1343. The people were therefore in
a state of wild anxiety, repenting of their sins, planning a total change of life under the
fear of imminent death, and neglecting their ordinary occupations. On the day of the predicted
calamity women roamed in trembling crowds through the streets, pressing their babies to their
breasts, and besieging the altars of the saints with prayers. Petrarch, who shared the general
disquietude, kept watching the signs of the weather; but nothing happened to warrant an extraordinary
panic. At sunset the sky was quieter than usual; and he could discern none of the symptoms
of approaching tempest, to which his familiarity with the mountains of Vaucluse accustomed
him. After dusk he stationed himself at a window to observe the moon until she went down, before
midnight, obscured by clouds. Then he betook himself to bed; but scarcely had he fallen into
his first sleep when a most horrible noise aroused him. The whole house shook; the night-light
on his table was extinguished; and he was thrown with violence from his couch. He was lodging
in a convent; and soon after this first intimation of the tempest he heard the monks calling
to each other through the darkness. From cell to cell they hurried, the ghastly gleams of lightning
falling on their terror-stricken faces. Headed by the Prior, and holding crosses and relics
of the saints in their hands, they now assembled in Petrarch's chamber. Thence they proceeded
in a body to the chapel, where they spent the night in prayer and expectation of impending
ruin. It would be impossible, says the poet, to relate the terrors of that hellish night--the
deluges of rain, the screaming of the wind, the earthquake, the thunder, the howling of the
sea, and the shrieks of agonising human beings. All these horrors were prolonged, as though
by some magician's spell, for what seemed twice the duration of a natural night. It was so
dark that at last by conjecture rather than the testimony of their senses they knew that day
had broken. A hurried mass was said. Then, as the noise in the town above them began to diminish,
and a confused clamour from the sea-shore continually increased, their suspense became unendurable.
They mounted their horses, and descended to the port--to see and perish. A fearful spectacle
awaited them. The ships in the harbour had broken their moorings, and were crashing helplessly
together. The strand was strewn with mutilated corpses. The breakwaters were submerged, and
the sea seemed gaining momently upon the solid land. A thousand watery mountains surged up
into the sky between the shore and Capri; and these massive billows were not black or purple,
but hoary with a livid foam. After describing some picturesque episodes--such as the gathering
of the knights of Naples to watch the ruin of their city, the procession of court ladies headed
by the queen to implore the intercession of Mary, and the wreck of a vessel freighted with
convicts bound for Sicily--Petrarch concludes with a fervent prayer that he may never have
to tempt the sea, of whose fury he had seen so awful an example.

The capital on this occasion escaped the ruin prophesied. But Amalfi was inundated; and what
the waters then gained has never been restored to man. This is why the once so famous city
ranks now upon a level with quiet little towns whose names are hardly heard in history--with
San Remo, or Rapallo, or Chiavari--and yet it is still as full of life as a wasp's nest, especially
upon the molo, or raised piazza paved with bricks, in front of the Albergo de' Cappuccini.
The changes of scene upon this tiny square are so frequent as to remind one of a theatre. Looking
down from the inn-balcony, between the glazy green pots gay with scarlet amaryllis-bloom, we
are inclined to fancy that the whole has been prepared for our amusement. In the morning the
corn for the macaroni-flour, after being washed, is spread out on the bricks to dry. In the
afternoon the fishermen bring their nets for the same purpose. In the evening the city magnates
promenade and whisper. Dark-eyed women, with orange or crimson kerchiefs for headgear, cross
and re-cross, bearing baskets on their shoulders. Great lazy large-limbed fellows, girt with
scarlet sashes and finished off with dark blue nightcaps (for a contrast to their saffron-coloured
shirts, white breeches, and sunburnt calves), slouch about or sleep face downwards on the parapets.
On either side of this same molo stretches a miniature beach of sand and pebble, covered with
nets, which the fishermen are always mending, and where the big boats lade or unlade, trimming
for the sardine fishery, or driving in to shore with a whirr of oars and a jabber of discordant
voices. As the land-wind freshens, you may watch them set off one by one, like pigeons taking
flight, till the sea is flecked with twenty sail, all scudding in the same direction. The torrent
runs beneath the molo, and finds the sea beyond it; so that here too are the washerwomen, chattering
like sparrows; and everywhere the naked boys, like brown sea-urchins, burrow in the clean warm
sand, or splash the shallow brine. If you like the fun, you may get a score of them to dive
together and scramble for coppers in the deeper places, their lithe bodies gleaming wan beneath
the water in a maze of interlacing arms and legs.

Over the whole busy scene rise the grey hills, soaring into blueness of air-distance, turreted
here and there with ruined castles, capped with particoloured campanili and white convents,
and tufted through their whole height with the orange and the emerald of the great tree-spurge,
and with the live gold of the blossoming broom. It is difficult to say when this picture is
most beautiful--whether in the early morning, when the boats are coming back from their night-toil
upon the sea, and along the headlands in the fresh light lie swathes of fleecy mist, betokening
a still, hot day--or at noontide, when the houses on the hill stand, tinted pink and yellow,
shadowless like gems, and the great caruba-trees above the tangles of vines and figs are blots
upon the steady glare--or at sunset, when violet and rose, reflected from the eastern sky,
make all these terraces and peaks translucent with a wondrous glow. The best of all, perhaps,
is night, with a full moon hanging high overhead. Who shall describe the silhouettes of boats
upon the shore or sleeping on the misty sea? On the horizon lies a dusky film of brownish golden
haze, between the moon and the glimmering water; and here and there a lamp or candle burns
with a deep red. Then is the time to take a boat and row upon the bay, or better, to swim out
into the waves and trouble the reflections from the steady stars. The mountains, clear and
calm, with light-irradiated chasms and hard shadows cast upon the rock, soar up above a city
built of alabaster, or sea-foam, or summer clouds. The whole is white and wonderful: no similes
suggest an analogue for the lustre, solid and transparent, of Amalfi nestling in moonlight
between the grey-blue sea and lucid hills. Stars stand on all the peaks, and twinkle, or keep
gliding, as the boat moves, down the craggy sides. Stars are mirrored on the marble of the
sea, until one knows not whether the oar has struck sparks from a star image or has scattered
diamonds of phosphorescent brine.

All this reads like a rhapsody; but indeed it is difficult not to be rhapsodical when a May
night of Amalfi is in the memory, with the echo of rich baritone voices chanting Neapolitan
songs to a mandoline. It is fashionable to complain that these Italian airs are opera-tunes;
but this is only another way of saying that the Italian opera is the genuine outgrowth of national
melody, and that Weber was not the first, as some German critics have supposed, to string together
Volkslieder for the stage. Northerners, who have never seen or felt the beauty of the South,
talk sad nonsense about the superiority of German over Italian music. It is true that much
Italian music is out of place in Northern Europe, where we seem to need more travail of the
intellect in art. But the Italians are rightly satisfied with such facile melody and such simple
rhythms as harmonise with sea and sky and boon earth sensuously beautiful. 'Perchè pensa? Pensando
s' invecchia,' expresses the same habit of mind as another celebrated saying, 'La musica è
il lamento dell' amore o la preghiera agli Dei.' Whatever may be the value of Italian music,
it is in concord with such a scene as Amalfi by moon-light; and he who does not appreciate
this no less than some more artificial combination of sights and sounds in Wagner's theatre
at Bayreuth, has scarcely learned the first lesson in the lore of beauty.

There is enough and to spare for all tastes at Amalfi. The student of architecture may spend
hours in the Cathedral, pondering over its high-built western front, and wondering whether
there is more of Moorish or of Gothic in its delicate arcades. The painter may transfer its
campanile, glittering like dragon's scales, to his canvas. The lover of the picturesque will
wander through its aisle at mass-time, watching the sunlight play upon those upturned Southern
faces with their ardent eyes; and happy is he who sees young men and maidens on Whit Sunday
crowding round the chancel rails, to catch the marigolds and gillyflowers scattered from baskets
which the priest has blessed. Is this a symbol of the Holy Spirit's gifts, or is it some quaint
relic of Pagan sparsiones? This question, with the memory of Pompeian graffiti in our mind,
may well suggest itself in Southern Italy, where old and new faiths are so singularly blended.
Then there is Ravello on the hills above. The path winds upward between stone walls tufted
with maidenhair; and ever nearer grow the mountains, and the sea-line soars into the sky. An
Englishman has made his home here in a ruined Moorish villa, with cool colonnaded cloisters
and rose-embowered terraces, lending far prospect over rocky hills and olive-girdled villages
to Pæstum's plain. The churches of Ravello have rare mosaics, and bronze doors, and marble
pulpits, older perhaps than those of Tuscany, which tempt the archæologist to ask if Nicholas
the Pisan learned his secret here. But who cares to be a sober antiquary at Amalfi? Far pleasanter
is it to climb the staircase to the Capuchins, and linger in those caverns of the living rock,
and pluck the lemons hanging by the mossy walls; or to row from cove to cove along the shore,
watching the fishes swimming in the deeps beneath, and the medusas spreading their filmy bells;
to land upon smooth slabs of rock, where corallines wave to and fro; or to rest on samphire-tufted
ledges, when the shadows slant beneath the westering sun.

There is no point in all this landscape which does not make a picture. Painters might even
complain that the pictures are too easy and the poetry too facile, just as the musicians find
the melodies of this fair land too simple. No effect, carefully sought and strenuously seized,
could enhance the mere beauty of Amalfi bathed in sunlight. You have only on some average summer
day to sit down and paint the scene. Little scope is afforded for suggestions of far-away weird
thoughts, or for elaborately studied motives. Daubigny and Corot are as alien here as Blake
or Dürer.

What is wanted, and what no modern artist can successfully recapture from the wasteful past,
is the mythopoeic sense--the apprehension of primeval powers akin to man, growing into shape
and substance on the borderland between the world and the keen human sympathies it stirs in
us. Greek mythology was the proper form of art for scenery like this. It gave the final touch
to all its beauties, and added to its sensuous charm an inbreathed spiritual life. No exercise
of the poetic faculty, far less that metaphysical mood of the reflective consciousness which
'leads from nature up to nature's God,' can now supply this need. From sea and earth and sky,
in those creative ages when the world was young, there leaned to greet the men whose fancy
made them, forms imagined and yet real--human, divine--the archetypes and everlasting patterns
of man's deepest sense of what is wonderful in nature. Feeling them there, for ever there,
inalienable, ready to start forth and greet successive generations--as the Hamadryad greeted
Rhaicos from his father's oak--those mythopoets called them by immortal names. All their pent-up
longings, all passions that consume, all aspirations that inflame--the desire for the impossible,
which is disease, the day-dreams and visions of the night, which are spontaneous poems--were
thus transferred to nature. And nature, responsive to the soul that loves her, gave them back
transfigured and translated into radiant beings of like substance with mankind. It was thus,
we feel, upon these southern shores that the gods of Greece came into being. The statues in
the temples were the true fine flower of all this beauty, the culmination of the poetry which
it evoked in hearts that feel and brains that think.

In Italy, far more than in any other part of Europe, the life of the present is imposed upon
the strata of successive past lives. Greek, Latin, Moorish, and mediæval civilisations have
arisen, flourished, and decayed on nearly the same soil; and it is common enough to find one
city, which may have perished twenty centuries ago, neighbour to another that enjoyed its brief
prosperity in the middle of our era. There is not, for example, the least sign of either Greek
or Roman at Amalfi. Whatever may have been the glories of the republic in the early middle
ages, they had no relation to the classic past. Yet a few miles off along the bay rise the
ancient Greek temples of Pæstum, from a desert--with no trace of any intervening occupants.
Poseidonia was founded in the sixth century before Christ, by colonists from Sybaris. Three
centuries later the Hellenic element in this settlement, which must already have become a town
of no little importance, was submerged by a deluge of recurrent barbarism. Under the Roman
rule it changed its name to Pæstum, and was prosperous. The Saracens destroyed it in the ninth
century of our era; and Robert Guiscard carried some of the materials of its buildings to adorn
his new town of Salerno. Since then the ancient site has been abandoned to malaria and solitude.
The very existence of Pæstum was unknown, except to wandering herdsmen and fishers coasting
near its ruined colonnades, until the end of the last century. Yet, strange to relate, after
all these revolutions, and in the midst of this total desolation, the only relics of the antique
city are three Greek temples, those very temples where the Hellenes, barbarised by their Lucanian
neighbours, met to mourn for their lost liberty. It is almost impossible to trace more than
the mere circuit of the walls of Poseidonia. Its port, if port it had in Roman days, has disappeared.
Its theatre is only just discernible. Still not a column of the great hypæthral temple, built
by the Sybarite colonists two thousand and five hundred years ago, to be a house for Zeus or
for Poseidon, has been injured. The accidents that erased far greater cities, like Syracuse,
from the surface of the earth--pillage, earthquake, the fury of fanatics, the slow decay of
perishable stone, or the lust of palace builders in the middle ages--have spared those three
houses of the gods, over whom, in the days of Alexander, the funeral hymn was chanted by the
enslaved Hellenes.

'We do the same,' said Aristoxenus in his Convivial Miscellanies, 'as the men of Poseidonia,
who dwell on the Tyrrhenian Gulf. It befell them, having been at first true Hellenes, to be
utterly barbarised, changing to Tyrrhenes or Romans, and altering their language, together
with their other customs. Yet they still observe one Hellenic festival, when they meet together
and call to remembrance their old names and bygone institutions; and having lamented one to
the other, and shed bitter tears, they afterwards depart to their own homes. Even thus a few
of us also, now that our theatres have been barbarised, and this art of music has gone to ruin
and vulgarity, meet together and remember what once music was.'[1]

    [1] Athenæus, xiv. 632.

This passage has a strange pathos, considering how it was penned, and how it has come down
to us, tossed by the dark indifferent stream of time. The Aristoxenus who wrote it was a pupil
of the Peripatetic School, born at Tarentum, and therefore familiar with the vicissitudes of
Magna Græcia. The study of music was his chief preoccupation; and he used this episode in the
agony of an enslaved Greek city, to point his own conservative disgust for innovations in an
art of which we have no knowledge left. The works of Aristoxenus have perished, and the fragment
I have quoted is embedded in the gossip of Egyptian Athenæus. In this careless fashion has
been opened for us, as it were, a little window on a grief now buried in the oblivion of a
hundred generations. After reading his words one May morning, beneath the pediment of Pæstum's
noblest ruin, I could not refrain from thinking that if the spirits of those captive Hellenes
were to revisit their old habitations, they would change their note of wailing into a thin
ghostly pæan, when they found that Romans and Lucanians had passed away, that Christians and
Saracens had left alike no trace behind, while the houses of their own [Greek: antêlioi theoi]--dawn-facing
deities--were still abiding in the pride of immemorial strength. Who knows whether buffalo-driver
or bandit may not ere now have seen processions of these Poseidonian phantoms, bearing laurels
and chaunting hymns on the spot where once they fell each on the other's neck to weep? Gathering
his cloak around him and cowering closer to his fire of sticks, the night-watcher in those
empty colonnades may have mistaken the Hellenic outlines of his shadowy visitants for fevered
dreams, and the melody of their evanished music for the whistling of night winds or the cry
of owls. So abandoned is Pæstum in its solitude that we know not even what legends may have
sprung up round those relics of a mightier age.

  The shrine is ruined now; and far away
  To east and west stretch olive groves, whose shade
  Even at the height of summer noon is grey.

  Asphodels sprout upon the plinth decayed
  Of these low columns, and the snake hath found
  Her haunt 'neath altar-steps with weeds o'erlaid.

  Yet this was once a hero's temple, crowned
  With myrtle-boughs by lovers, and with palm
  By wrestlers, resonant with sweetest sound

  Of flute and fife in summer evening's calm,
  And odorous with incense all the year,
  With nard and spice, and galbanum and balm.

These lines sufficiently express the sense of desolation felt at Pæstum, except that the scenery
is more solemn and mournful, and the temples are too august to be the shrine of any simple
hero. There are no olives. The sea plunges on its sandy shore within the space of half a mile
to westward. Far and wide on either hand stretch dreary fever-stricken marshes. The plain is
bounded to the north, and east, and south, with mountains, purple, snow-peaked, serrated, and
grandly broken like the hills of Greece. Driving over this vast level where the Silarus stagnates,
the monotony of the landscape is broken now and then by a group of buffaloes standing up to
their dewlaps in reeds, by peasants on horseback, with goads in their hands, and muskets slung
athwart their backs, or by patrols of Italian soldiers crossing and re-crossing on the brigand-haunted
roads. Certain portions have been reclaimed from the swamp, and here may be seen white oxen
in herds of fifty grazing; or gangs of women at field-labour, with a man to oversee them, cracking
a long hunting-whip; or the mares and foals of a famous stud-farm browsing under spreading
pines. There are no villages, and the few farmhouses are so widely scattered as to make us
wonder where the herdsmen and field-workers, scanty as they are, can possibly be lodged.

At last the three great temples come in sight. The rich orange of the central building contrasts
with the paler yellow of its two companions, while the glowing colour of all three is splendidly
relieved against green vegetation and blue mountain-flanks. Their material is travertine--a
calcareous stone formed by the deposit of petrifying waters, which contains fragments of reeds,
spiral shells, and other substances, embedded in the porous limestone. In the flourishing period
of old Poseidonia these travertine columns were coated with stucco, worked to a smooth surface,
and brilliantly tinted to harmonise with the gay costumes of a Greek festival. Even now this
coating of fine sand, mingled with slaked lime and water, can be seen in patches on the huge
blocks of the masonry. Thus treated, the travertine lacked little of the radiance of marble,
for it must be remembered that the Greeks painted even the Pentelic cornice of the Parthenon
with red and blue. Nor can we doubt that the general effect of brightness suited the glad and
genial conditions of Greek life.

All the surroundings are altered now, and the lover of the picturesque may be truly thankful
that the hand of time, by stripping the buildings of this stucco, without impairing their proportions,
has substituted a new harmony of tone between the native stone and the surrounding landscape,
no less sympathetic to the present solitude than the old symphony of colours was to the animated
circumstances of a populous Greek city. In this way those critics who defend the polychrome
decorations of the classic architects, and those who contend that they cannot imagine any alteration
from the present toning of Greek temples for the better, are both right.

In point of colour the Pæstum ruins are very similar to those of Girgenti; but owing to their
position on a level plain, in front of a scarcely indented sea-shore, we lack the irregularity
which adds so much charm to the row of temples on their broken cliff in the old town of Agrigentum.
In like manner the celebrated asymmetreia of the buildings of the Athenian Acropolis, which
causes so much variety of light and shade upon the temple-fronts, and offers so many novel
points of view when they are seen in combination, seems to have been due originally to the
exigencies of the ground. At Pæstum, in planning out the city, there can have been no utilitarian
reasons for placing the temples at odd angles, either to each other or the shore. Therefore
we see them now almost exactly in line and parallel, though at unequal distances. If something
of picturesque effect is thus lost at Pæstum through the flatness of the ground, something
of impressive grandeur on the other hand is gained by the very regularity with which those
phalanxes of massive Doric columns are drawn up to face the sea.

Poseidonia, as the name betokens, was dedicated to the god of the sea; and the coins of the
city are stamped with his effigy bearing a trident, and with his sacred animal, the bull. It
has therefore been conjectured that the central of the three temples--which was hypæthral and
had two entrances, east and west--belonged to Poseidon; and there is something fine in the
notion of the god being thus able to pass to and fro from his cella through those sunny peristyles,
down to his chariot, yoked with sea-horses, in the brine. Yet hypæthral temples were generally
consecrated to Zeus, and it is therefore probable that the traditional name of this vast edifice
is wrong. The names of the two other temples, Tempio di Cerere and Basilica, are wholly unsupported
by any proof or probability. The second is almost certainly founded on a mistake; and if we
assign the largest of the three shrines to Zeus, one or other of the lesser belonged most likely
to Poseidon.

The style of the temples is severe and primitive. In general effect their Doric architecture
is far sterner than that adapted by Ictinus to the Parthenon. The entablature seems somewhat
disproportioned to the columns and the pediment; and, owing to this cause, there is a general
effect of heaviness. The columns, again, are thick-set; nor is the effect of solidity removed
by their gradual narrowing from the base upwards. The pillars of the Neptune are narrowed in
a straight line; those of the Basilica and Ceres by a gentle curve. Study of these buildings,
so sublime in their massiveness, so noble in the parsimony of their decoration, so dignified
in their employment of the simplest means for the attainment of an indestructible effect of
harmony, heightens our admiration for the Attic genius which found in this grand manner of
the elder Doric architects resources as yet undeveloped; creating, by slight and subtle alterations
of outline, proportion, and rhythm of parts, what may fairly be classed as a style unique,
because exemplified in only one transcendent building.

It is difficult not to return again and again to the beauty of colouring at Pæstum. Lying basking
in the sun upon a flat slab of stone, and gazing eastward, we overlook a foreground of dappled
light and shadow, across which the lizards run--quick streaks of living emerald--making the
bunches of yellow rue and little white serpyllum in the fissures of the masonry nod as they
hurry past. Then come two stationary columns, built, it seems, of solid gold, where the sunbeams
strike along their russet surface. Between them lies the landscape, a medley first of brakefern
and asphodel and feathering acanthus and blue spikes of bugloss; then a white farm in the middle
distance, roofed with the reddest tiles and sheltered by a velvety umbrella pine. Beyond and
above the farm, a glimpse of mountains purple almost to indigo with cloud shadows, and flecked
with snow. Still higher--but for this we have to raise our head a little--the free heavens
enclosed within the frame-work of the tawny travertine, across which sail hawks and flutter
jackdaws, sharply cut against the solid sky. Down from the architrave, to make the vignette
perfect, hang tufts of crimson snapdragons. Each opening in the peristyle gives a fresh picture.

The temples are overgrown with snapdragons and mallows, yellow asters and lilac gillyflowers,
white allium and wild fig. When a breeze passes, the whole of this many-coloured tapestry waves
gently to and fro. The fields around are flowery enough; but where are the roses? I suppose
no one who has read his Virgil at school, crosses the plain from Salerno to Pæstum without
those words of the 'Georgics' ringing in his ears: biferique rosaria Pæsti. They have that
wonderful Virgilian charm which, by a touch, transforms mere daily sights and sounds, and adds
poetic mystery to common things. The poets of ancient Rome seem to have felt the magic of this
phrase; for Ovid has imitated the line in his 'Metamorphoses,' tamely substituting tepidi for
the suggestive biferi, while again in his 'Elegies' he uses the same termination with odorati
for his epithet. Martial sings of Pæstanæ rosæ and Pæstani gloria ruris. Even Ausonius, at
the very end of Latin literature, draws from the rosaries of Pæstum a pretty picture of beauty
doomed to premature decline:--

  Vidi Pæstano gaudere rosaria cultu
    Exoriente novo roscida Lucifero.

  'I have watched the rose-beds that luxuriate on Pæstum's well-tilled
  soil, all dewy in the young light of the rising dawn-star.'

What a place indeed was this for a rose-garden, spreading far and wide along the fertile plain,
with its deep loam reclaimed from swamps and irrigated by the passing of perpetual streams!
But where are the roses now? As well ask, où sont les neiges d'antan?

We left Amalfi for Capri in the freshness of an early morning at the end of May. As we stepped
into our six-oared boat the sun rose above the horizon, flooding the sea with gold and flashing
on the terraces above Amalfi. High up along the mountains hung pearly and empurpled mists,
set like resting-places between a world too beautiful and heaven too far for mortal feet. Not
a breath of any wind was stirring. The water heaved with a scarcely perceptible swell, and
the vapours lifted gradually as the sun's rays grew in power. Here the hills descend abruptly
on the sea, ending in cliffs where light reflected from the water dances. Huge caverns open
in the limestone; on their edges hang stalactites like beards, and the sea within sleeps dark
as night. For some of these caves the maidenhair fern makes a shadowy curtain; and all of them
might be the home of Proteus, or of Calypso, by whose side her mortal lover passed his nights
in vain home-sickness:--

  [Greek: en spessi glaphyroisi par' ouk ethelôn ethelousê].

This is a truly Odyssean journey. Soon the islands of the Sirens come in sight,--bare bluffs
of rock, shaped like galleys taking flight for the broad sea. As we row past in this ambrosial
weather, the oarsmen keeping time and ploughing furrows in the fruitless fields of Nereus,
it is not difficult to hear the siren voices--for earth and heaven and sea make melodies far
above mortal singing. The water round the Galli--so the islands are now called, as antiquaries
tell us, from an ancient fortress named Guallo--is very deep, and not a sign of habitation
is to be seen upon them. In bygone ages they were used as prisons; and many doges of Amalfi
languished their lives away upon those shadeless stones, watching the sea around them blaze
like a burnished shield at noon, and the peaks of Capri deepen into purple when the west was
glowing after sunset with the rose and daffodil of Southern twilight.

The end of the Sorrentine promontory, Point Campanella, is absolutely barren--grey limestone,
with the scantiest over-growth of rosemary and myrtle. A more desolate spot can hardly be imagined.
But now the morning breeze springs up behind; sails are hoisted, and the boatmen ship their
oars. Under the albatross wings of our lateen sails we scud across the freshening waves. The
precipice of Capri soars against the sky, and the Bay of Naples expands before us with those
sweeping curves and azure amplitude that all the poets of the world have sung. Even thus the
mariners of ancient Hellas rounded this headland when the world was young. Rightly they named
yon rising ground, beneath Vesuvius, Posilippo--rest from grief. Even now, after all those
centuries of toil, though the mild mountain has been turned into a mouth of murderous fire,
though Roman emperors and Spanish despots have done their worst to mar what nature made so
perfect, we may here lay down the burden of our cares, gaining tranquillity by no mysterious
lustral rites, no penitential prayers or offerings of holocausts, but by the influence of beauty
in the earth and air, and by sympathy with a people unspoiled in their healthful life of labour
alternating with simple joy.

The last hour of the voyage was beguiled by stories of our boatmen, some of whom had seen service
on distant seas, while others could tell of risks on shore and love adventures. They showed
us how the tunny-nets were set, and described the solitary life of the tunny-watchers, in their
open boats, waiting to spear the monsters of the deep entangled in the chambers made for them
beneath the waves. How much of Æschylean imagery, I reflected, is drawn from this old fisher's
art--the toils of Clytemnestra and the tragedy of Psyttaleia rising to my mind. One of the
crew had his little son with him, a child of six years old; and when the boy was restless,
his father spoke of Barbarossa and Timberio (sic) to keep him quiet; for the memory of the
Moorish pirate and the mighty emperor is still alive here. The people of Capri are as familiar
with Tiberius as the Bretons with King Arthur; and the hoof-mark of illustrious crime is stamped
upon the island.

Capri offers another example of the versatility of Southern Italy. If Amalfi brings back to
us the naval and commercial prosperity of the early middle ages; if Pæstuni remains a monument
of the oldest Hellenic civilisation; Capri, at a few miles' distance, is dedicated to the Roman
emperor who made it his favourite residence, when, life-weary with the world and all its shows,
he turned these many peaks and slumbering caves into a summer palace for the nursing of his
brain-sick phantasy. Already on landing, we are led to remember that from this shore was loosed
the galley bearing that great letter--verbosa et grandis epistola--which undid Sejanus and
shook Rome. Riding to Ana-Capri and the Salto di Tiberio, exploring the remains of his favourite
twelve villas, and gliding over the smooth waters paved with the white marbles of his baths,
we are for ever attended by the same forbidding spectre. Here, perchance, were the sedes arcanarum
libidinum whereof Suetonius speaks; the Spintrian medals, found in these recesses, still bear
witness that the biographer trusted no mere fables for the picture he has drawn. Here, too,
below the Villa Jovis, gazing 700 feet sheer down into the waves, we tread the very parapet
whence fell the victims of that maniac lust for blood. 'After long and exquisite torments,'
says the Roman writer, 'he ordered condemned prisoners to be cast into the sea before his eyes;
marines were stationed near to pound the fallen corpses with poles and oars, lest haply breath
should linger in their limbs.' The Neapolitan Museum contains a little basrelief representing
Tiberius, with the well-known features of the Claudian house, seated astride upon a donkey,
with a girl before him. A slave is leading the beast and its burden to a terminal statue under
an olive-tree. This curious relic, discovered some while since at Capri, haunted my fancy as
I climbed the olive-planted slopes to his high villa on the Arx Tiberii. It is some relief,
amid so much that is tragic in the associations of this place, to have the horrible Tiberius
burlesqued and brought into donkey-riding relation with the tourist of to-day. And what an
ironical revenge of time it is that his famous Salto should be turned into a restaurant, where
the girls dance tarantella for a few coppers; that a toothless hermit should occupy a cell
upon the very summit of his Villa Jovis; and that the Englishwoman's comfortable hotel should
be called Timberio by the natives! A spiritualist might well believe that the emperor's ghost
was forced to haunt the island, and to expiate his old atrocities by gazing on these modern
vulgarisms.

Few problems suggested by history are more darkly fascinating than the madness of despots;
and of this madness, whether inherent in their blood or encouraged by the circumstance of absolute
autocracy, the emperors of the Claudian and Julian houses furnish the most memorable instance.[1]
It is this that renders Tiberius ever present to our memory at Capri. Nor will the student
of Suetonius forget his even more memorable grand-nephew Caligula. The following passage is
an episode from the biography of that imperial maniac, whose portrait in green basalt, with
the strain of dire mental tension on the forehead, is still so beautiful that we are able at
this distance of time to pity more than loathe him. 'Above all, he was tormented with nervous
irritation, by sleeplessness; for he enjoyed not more than three hours of nocturnal repose,
nor even these in pure untroubled rest, but agitated by phantasmata of portentous augury; as,
for example, upon one occasion, among other spectral visions, he fancied that he saw the sea,
under some definite impersonation, conversing with himself. Hence it was, and from this incapacity
of sleeping, and from weariness of lying awake, that he had fallen into habits of ranging all
night long through the palace, sometimes throwing himself on a couch, sometimes wandering along
the vast corridors, watching for the earliest dawn, and anxiously wishing its approach.' Those
corridors, or loggie, where Caligula spent his wakeful hours, opened perchance upon this Bay
of Naples, if not upon the sea-waves of his favourite Porto d'Anzio; for we know that one of
his great follies was a palace built above the sea on piles at Baiæ; and where else could Pelagus,
with his cold azure eyes and briny locks, have more appropriately terrified his sleep with
prophecy conveyed in dreams? The very nature of this vision, selected for such special comment
by Suetonius as to show that it had troubled Caligula profoundly, proves the fantastic nature
of the man, and justifies the hypothesis of insanity.

    [1] De Quincey, in his essay on The Cæsars, has worked
    out this subject with such artistic vividness that no more
    need be said. From his pages I have quoted the
    paraphrastic version of Suetonius that follows.

But it is time to shake off the burden of the past. Only students, carrying superfluity of
culture in their knapsacks, will ponder over the imperial lunatics who made Capri and Baiæ
fashionable in the days of ancient Rome. Neither Tiberius nor Caligula, nor yet Ferdinand of
Aragon or Bomba for that matter, has been able to leave trace of vice or scar of crime on nature
in this Eden. A row round the island, or a supper-party in the loggia above the sea at sunset-time,
is no less charming now, in spite of Roman or Spanish memories, than when the world was young.

Sea-mists are frequent in the early summer mornings, swathing the cliffs of Capri in impenetrable
wool and brooding on the perfectly smooth water till the day-wind rises. Then they disappear
like magic, rolling in smoke-wreaths from the surface of the sea, condensing into clouds and
climbing the hillsides like Oceanides in quest of Prometheus, or taking their station on the
watch-towers of the world, as in the chorus of the Nephelai. Such a morning may be chosen for
the giro of the island. The blue grotto loses nothing of its beauty, but rather gains by contrast,
when passing from dense fog you find yourself transported to a world of wavering subaqueous
sheen. It is only through the opening of the very topmost arch that a boat can glide into this
cavern; the arch itself spreads downward through the water, so that all the light is transmitted
from beneath and coloured by the sea. The grotto is domed in many chambers; and the water is
so clear that you can see the bottom, silvery, with black-finned fishes diapered upon the blue
white sand. The flesh of a diver in this water showed like the faces of children playing at
snapdragon; all around him the spray leapt up with living fire; and when the oars struck the
surface, it was as though a phosphorescent sea had been smitten, and the drops ran from the
blades in blue pearls. I have only once seen anything (outside the magic-world of a pantomime)
to equal these effects of blue and silver; and that was when I made my way into an ice-cave
in the Great Aletsch glacier--not an artificial gallery such as they cut at Grindelwald, but
a natural cavern, arched, hollowed into fanciful recesses, and hung with stalactites of pendent
ice. The difference between the glacier-cavern and the sea-grotto was that in the former all
the light was transmitted through transparent sides, so that the whole was one uniform azure,
except in rare places where little chinks opened upwards to the air, and the light of day came
glancing with a roseate flush. In the latter the light sent from beneath through the water
played upon a roof of rock; reflections intermingled with translucence; and a greater variety
of light and shadow compensated the lack of that strange sense of being shut within a solid gem.

Numberless are the caves at Capri. The so-called green grotto has the beauty of moss-agate
in its liquid floor; the red grotto shows a warmer chord of colour; and where there is no other
charm to notice, endless beauty may be found in the play of sunlight upon roofs of limestone,
tinted with yellow, orange, and pale pink, mossed over, hung with fern, and catching tones
of blue or green from the still deeps beneath.

Sheets of water, wherever found, are the most subtle heighteners of colour. To those who are
familiar with Venetian or Mantuan sunsets, who have seen the flocks of flamingoes reflected
on the lagoons of Tunis, or who have watched stormy red flakes tossed from crest to crest of
great Atlantic waves on our own coasts, this need hardly be said. Yet I cannot leave this beauty
of the sea at Capri without touching on a melodrama of light and colour I once saw at Castellammare.
It was a festa night, when the people sent up rockets and fireworks of every hue from the harbour-breakwater.
The surf rolled shoreward like a bath of molten metals, all confused of blue, and red, and
green, and gold--dying dolphin tints that burned strangely beneath the purple skies and tranquil
stars. Boats at sea hung out their crimson cressets, flickering in long lines on the bay; and
larger craft moved slowly with rows of lamps defining their curves; while the full moon shed
over all her 'vitreous pour, just tinged with blue.' To some tastes this mingling of natural
and artificial effects would seem unworthy of sober notice; but I confess to having enjoyed
it with childish eagerness like music never to be forgotten.

After a day upon the water it is pleasant to rest at sunset in the loggia above the sea. The
Bay of Naples stretches far and wide in front, beautiful by reason chiefly of the long fine
line descending from Vesuvius, dipping almost to a level and then gliding up to join the highlands
of the north. Now sun and moon begin to mingle: waning and waxing splendours. The cliffs above
our heads are still blushing a deep flame-colour, like the heart of some tea-rose; when lo,
the touch of the huntress is laid upon those eastern pinnacles, and the horizon glimmers with
her rising. Was it on such a night that Ferdinand of Aragon fled from his capital before the
French, with eyes turned ever to the land he loved, chanting, as he leaned from his galley's
stern, that melancholy psalm--'Except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain'--and
seeing Naples dwindle to a white blot on the purple shore?

Our journey takes the opposite direction. Farewell to Capri, welcome to Sorrento! The roads
are sweet with scent of acacia and orange flowers. When you walk in a garden at night, the
white specks beneath your feet are fallen petals of lemon blossoms. Over the walls hang cataracts
of roses, honey-pale clusters of the Banksia rose, and pink bushes of the China rose, growing
as we never see them grow with us. The grey rocks wave with gladiolus--feathers of crimson,
set amid tufts of rosemary, and myrtle, and tree-spurge. In the clefts of the sandstone, and
behind the orchard walls, sleeps a dark green night of foliage, in the midst of which gleam
globed oranges, and lemons dropping like great pearls of palest amber dew. It is difficult
to believe that the lemons have not grown into length by their own weight, as though mere hanging
on the bough prevented them from being round--so waxen are they. Overhead soar stone-pines--a
roof of sombre green, a lattice-work of strong red branches, through which the moon peers wonderfully.
One part of this marvellous piano is bare rock tufted with keen-scented herbs, and sparsely
grown with locust-trees and olives. Another waves from sea to summit with beech-copses and
oak-woods, as verdant as the most abundant English valley. Another region turns its hoary raiment
of olive-gardens to the sun and sea, or flourishes with fig and vine. Everywhere, the houses
of men are dazzling white, perched on natural coigns of vantage, clustered on the brink of
brown cliffs, nestling under mountain eaves, or piled up from the sea-beach in ascending tiers,
until the broad knees of the hills are reached, and great Pan, the genius of solitude in nature,
takes unto himself a region yet untenanted by man. The occupations of the sea and land are
blent together on this shore; and the people are both blithe and gentle. It is true that their
passions are upon the surface, and that the knife is ready to their hand. But the combination
of fierceness and softness in them has an infinite charm when one has learned by observation
that their lives are laborious and frugal, and that their honesty is hardly less than their
vigour. Happy indeed are they--so happy that, but for crimes accumulated through successive
generations by bad governors, and but for superstitions cankering the soul within, they might
deserve what Shelley wrote of his imagined island in 'Epipsychidion.'

ETNA

The eruptions of Etna have blackened the whole land for miles in every direction. That is the
first observation forced upon one in the neighbourhood of Catania, or Giarre, or Bronte. From
whatever point of view you look at Etna, it is always a regular pyramid, with long and gradually
sloping sides, broken here and there by the excrescence of minor craters and dotted over with
villages; the summit crowned with snow, divided into peak and cone, girdled with clouds, and
capped with smoke, that shifts shape as the wind veers, dominates a blue-black monstrous mass
of outpoured lava. From the top of Monte Rosso, a subordinate volcano which broke into eruption
in 1669, you can trace the fountain from which 'the unapproachable river of purest fire,' that
nearly destroyed Catania, issued. You see it still, bubbling up like a frozen geyser from the
flank of the mountain, whence the sooty torrent spreads, or rather sprawls, with jagged edges
to the sea. The plain of Catania lies at your feet, threaded by the Simeto, bounded by the
promontory of Syracuse and the mountains of Castro Giovanni. This huge amorphous blot upon
the landscape may be compared to an ink-stain on a variegated tablecloth, or to the coal districts
marked upon a geological atlas, or to the heathen in a missionary map--the green and red and
grey colours standing for Christians and Mahommedans and Jews of different shades and qualities.
The lava, where it has been cultivated, is reduced to fertile sand, in which vines and fig-trees
are planted--their tender green foliage contrasting strangely with the sinister soil that makes
them flourish. All the roads are black as jet, like paths leading to coal-pits, and the country-folk
on mule-back plodding along them look like Arabs on an infernal Sahara. The very lizards which
haunt the rocks are swart and smutty. Yet the flora of the district is luxuriant. The gardens
round Catania, nestling into cracks and ridges of the stiffened flood, are marvellously brilliant
with spurge and fennel and valerian. It is impossible to form a true conception of flower-brightness
till one has seen these golden and crimson tints upon their ground of ebony, or to realise
the blueness of the Mediterranean except in contrast with the lava where it breaks into the
sea. Copses of frail oak and ash, undergrown with ferns of every sort; cactus-hedges, orange-trees
grafted with lemons and laden with both fruits; olives of scarce two centuries' growth, and
fig-trees knobbed with their sweet produce, overrun the sombre soil, and spread their boughs
against the deep blue sea and the translucent amethyst of the Calabrian mountains. Underfoot,
a convolvulus with large white blossoms, binding dingy stone to stone, might be compared to
a rope of Desdemona's pearls upon the neck of Othello.

The villages are perhaps the most curious feature of this scenery. Their houses, rarely more
than one story high, are walled, paved, and often roofed with the inflexible material which
once was ruinous fire, and is now the servant of the men it threatened to destroy. The churches
are such as might be raised in Hades to implacable Proserpine, such as one might dream of in
a vision of the world turned into hell, such as Baudelaire in his fiction of a metallic landscape
might have imagined under the influence of hasheesh. Their flights of steps are built of sharply
cut black lava blocks no feet can wear. Their door-jambs and columns and pediments and carved
work are wrought and sculptured of the same gloomy masonry. How forbidding are the acanthus
scrolls, how grim the skulls and cross-bones on these portals! The bell-towers, again, are
ribbed and beamed with black lava. A certain amount of the structure is whitewashed, which
serves to relieve the funereal solemnity of the rest. In an Indian district each of these churches
would be a temple, raised in vain propitiation to the demon of the fire above and below. Some
pictures made by their spires in combination with the sad village-hovels, the snowy dome of
Etna, and the ever-smiling sea, are quite unique in their variety of suggestion and wild beauty.

The people have a sorrow-smitten and stern aspect. Some of the men in the prime of life are
grand and haughty, with the cast-bronze countenance of Roman emperors. But the old men bear
rigid faces of carved basalt, gazing fixedly before them as though at some time or other in
their past lives they had met Medusa: and truly Etna in eruption is a Gorgon, which their ancestors
have oftentimes seen shuddering, and fled from terror-frozen. The white-haired old women, plying
their spindle or distaff, or meditating in grim solitude, sit with the sinister set features
of Fates by their doorways. The young people are very rarely seen to smile: they open hard,
black, beaded eyes upon a world in which there is little for them but endurance or the fierceness
of passions that delight in blood. Strangely different are these dwellers on the sides of Etna
from the voluble, lithe sailors of Sciacca or Mazara, with their sunburnt skins and many-coloured
garments.

The Val del Bove--a vast chasm in the flank of Etna, where the very heart of the volcano has
been riven and its entrails bared--is the most impressive spot of all this region. The road
to it leads from Zafferana (so called because of its crocus-flowers) along what looks like
a series of black moraines, where the lava torrents pouring from the craters of Etna have spread
out, and reared themselves in stiffened ridges against opposing mountain buttresses. After
toiling for about three hours over the dismal waste, a point between the native rock of Etna
and the dead sea of lava is reached, which commands a prospect of the cone with its curling
smoke surmounting a caldron of some four thousand feet in depth and seemingly very wide. The
whole of this space is filled with billows of blackness, wave on wave, crest over crest, and
dyke by dyke, precisely similar to a gigantic glacier, swarthy and immovable. The resemblance
of the lava flood to a glacier is extraordinarily striking. One can fancy oneself standing
on the Belvedere at Macugnaga, or the Tacul point upon the Mer de Glace, in some nightmare,
and finding to one's horror that the radiant snows and river-breeding ice-fields have been
turned by a malignant deity to sullen, stationary cinders. It is a most hideous place, like
a pit in Dante's Hell, disused for some unexplained reason, and left untenanted by fiends.
The scenery of the moon, without atmosphere and without life, must be of this sort; and such,
rolling round in space, may be some planet that has survived its own combustion. When the clouds,
which almost always hang about the Val del Bove, are tumbling at their awful play around its
precipices, veiling the sweet suggestion of distant sea and happier hills that should be visible,
the horror of this view is aggravated. Breaking here and there, the billows of mist disclose
forlorn tracts of jet-black desolation, wicked, unutterable, hateful in their hideousness,
with patches of smutty snow above, and downward-rolling volumes of murky smoke. Shakspere,
when he imagined the damned spirits confined to 'thrilling regions of thick-ribbed ice,' divined
the nature of a glacier; but what line could he have composed, adequate to shadow forth the
tortures of a soul condemned to palpitate for ever between the ridges of this thirsty and intolerable
sea of dead fire? If the world-spirit chose to assume for itself the form and being of a dragon,
of like substance to this, impenetrable, invulnerable, unapproachable would be its hide. It
requires no great stretch of the imagination to picture these lava lakes glowing, as they must
have been, when first outpoured, the bellowing of the crater, the heaving and surging of the
solid earth, the air obstructed with cinders and whizzing globes of molten rock. Yet in these
throes of devilish activity, the Val del Bove would be less insufferable than in its present
state of suspension, asleep, but threatening, ready to regurgitate its flame, but for a moment
inert.

An hour's drive from Nicolosi or Zafferana, seaward, brings one into the richest land of 'olive
and aloe and maize and vine' to be found upon the face of Europe. Here, too, are laughing little
towns, white, prosperous, and gleeful, the very opposite of those sad stations on the mountain-flank.
Every house in Aci Reale has its courtyard garden filled with orange-trees, and nespole, and
fig-trees, and oleanders. From the grinning corbels that support the balconies hang tufts of
gem-bright ferns and glowing clove-pinks. Pergolas of vines, bronzed in autumn, and golden
green like chrysoprase beneath an April sun, fling their tendrils over white walls and shady
loggie. Gourds hang ripening in the steady blaze. Far and wide stretches a landscape rich with
tilth and husbandry, boon Nature paying back to men tenfold for all their easy toil. The terrible
great mountain sleeps in the distance innocent of fire. I know not whether this land be more
delightful in spring or autumn. The little flamelike flakes of brightness upon vines and fig-trees
in April have their own peculiar charm. But in November the whole vast flank of Etna glows
with the deep-blue tone of steel; the russet woods are like a film of rust; the vine-boughs
thrust living carbuncles against the sun. To this season, when the peculiar earth-tints of
Etna, its strong purples and tawny browns, are harmonised with the decaying wealth of forest
and of orchard, I think the palm of beauty must be given in this land.

The sea is an unchangeable element of charm in all this landscape. Aci Castello should be visited,
and those strange rocks, called the Ciclopidi, forced by volcanic pressure from beneath the
waves. They are made of black basalt like the Giant's Causeway; and on their top can be traced
the caps of calcareous stone they carried with them in the fret and fury of their upheaval
from the sea-bed. Samphire, wild fennel, cactus, and acanthus clothe them now from crest to
basement where the cliff is not too sheer. By the way, there are few plants more picturesque
than the acanthus in full flower. Its pale lilac spikes of blossom stand waist-high above a
wilderness of feathering, curving, delicately indented, burnished leaves--deep, glossy, cool,
and green.

This is the place for a child's story of the one-eyed giant Polyphemus, who fed his flocks
among the oak-woods of Etna, and who, strolling by the sea one summer evening, saw and loved
the fair girl Galatea. She was afraid of him, and could not bear his shaggy-browed round rolling
eye. But he forgot his sheep and goats, and sat upon the cliffs and piped to her. Meanwhile
she loved the beautiful boy Acis, who ran down from the copse to play with her upon the sea-beach.
They hid together from Polyphemus in a fern-curtained cavern of the shore. But Polyphemus spied
them out and heard them laughing together at their games. Then he grew wroth, and stamped with
his huge feet upon the earth, and made it shake and quiver. He roared and bellowed in his rage,
and tore up rocks and flung them at the cavern where the children were in hiding, and his eye
shot fire beneath the grisly pent-house of his wrinkled brows. They, in their sore distress,
prayed to heaven; and their prayers were heard: Galatea became a mermaid, so that she might
swim and sport like foam upon the crests of the blue sea; and Acis was changed into a stream
that leapt from the hills to play with her amid bright waters. But Polyphemus, in punishment
for his rage, and spite, and jealousy, was forced to live in the mid-furnaces of Etna. There
he growled and groaned and shot forth flame in impotent fury; for though he remembered the
gladness of those playfellows, and sought to harm them by tossing red-hot rocks upon the shore,
yet the light sea ever laughed, and the radiant river found its way down from the copsewood
to the waves. The throes of Etna in convulsion are the pangs of his great giant's heart, pent
up and sick with love for the bright sea and gladsome sun; for, as an old poet sings:--

  There's love when holy heaven doth wound the earth;
  And love still prompts the land to yearn for bridals:
  The rain that falls in rivers from the sky,
  Impregnates earth: and she brings forth for men
  The flocks and herds and life of teeming Ceres.

To which let us add:--

  But sometimes love is barren, when broad hills,
  Rent with the pangs of passion, yearn in vain,
  Pouring fire tears adown their furrowed cheeks,
  And heaving in the impotence of anguish.

There are few places in Europe where the poetic truth of Greek mythology is more apparent than
here upon the coast between Etna and the sea. Of late, philosophers have been eager to tell
us that the beautiful legends of the Greeks, which contain in the coloured haze of fancy all
the thoughts afterwards expressed by that divine race in poetry and sculpture, are but decayed
phrases, dead sentences, and words whereof the meaning was forgotten. In this theory there
is a certain truth; for mythology stands midway between the first lispings of a nation in its
language, and its full-developed utterances in art. Yet we have only to visit the scenes which
gave birth to some Hellenic myth, and we perceive at once that, whatever philology may affirm,
the legend was a living poem, a drama of life and passion transferred from human experience
to the inanimate world by those early myth-makers, who were the first and the most fertile
of all artists. Persephone was the patroness of Sicily, because amid the billowy cornfields
of her mother Demeter and the meadow flowers she loved in girlhood, are ever found sulphurous
ravines and chasms breathing vapour from the pit of Hades. What were the Cyclops--that race
of one-eyed giants--but the many minor cones of Etna? Observed from the sea by mariners, or
vaguely spoken of by the natives, who had reason to dread their rage, these hillocks became
lawless and devouring giants, each with one round burning eye. Afterwards the tales of Titans
who had warred with Zeus were realised in this spot. Typhoeus or Enceladus made the mountain
heave and snort; while Hephæstus not unnaturally forged thunder-bolts in the central caverns
of a volcano that never ceased to smoke. To the student of art and literature, mythology is
chiefly interesting in its latest stages, when, the linguistic origin of special legends being
utterly forgotten, the poets of the race played freely with its rich material. Who cares to
be told that Achilles was the sun, when the child of Thetis and the lover of Patroclus has
been sung for us by Homer? Are the human agonies of the doomed house of Thebes made less appalling
by tracing back the tale of OEdipus to some prosaic source in old astronomy? The incest of
Jocasta is the subject of supreme tragic art. It does not improve the matter, or whitewash
the imagination of the Greeks, as some have fondly fancied, to unravel the fabric wrought by
Homer and by Sophocles, into its raw material in Aryan dialects. Indeed, this new method of
criticism bids fair to destroy for young minds the human lessons of pathos and heroism in Greek
poetry, and to create an obscure conviction that the greatest race of artists the world has
ever produced were but dotards, helplessly dreaming over distorted forms of speech and obsolete
phraseology.

Let us bid farewell to Etna from Taormina. All along the coast between Aci and Giardini the
mountain towers distinct against a sunset sky--divested of its robe of cloud, translucent and
blue as some dark sea-built crystal. The Val del Bove is shown to be a circular crater in which
the lava has boiled and bubbled over to the fertile land beneath. As we reach Giardini, the
young moon is shining, and the night is alive with stars so large and bright that they seem
leaning down to whisper in the ears of our soul. The sea is calm, touched here and there on
the fringes of the bays and headlands with silvery light; and impendent crags loom black and
sombre against the feeble azure of the moonlit sky. Quale per incertam lunam et sub luce malignâ:
such is our journey, with Etna, a grey ghost, behind our path, and the reflections of stars
upon the sea, and glow-worms in the hedges, and the mystical still splendour of the night,
that, like Death, liberates the soul, raising it above all common things, simplifying the outlines
of the earth as well as our own thoughts to one twilight hush of aërial tranquillity. It is
a strange compliment to such a landscape to say that it recalls a scene from an opera. Yet
so it is. What the arts of the scene-painter and the musician strive to suggest is here realised
in fact; the mood of the soul created by music and by passion is natural here, spontaneous,
prepared by the divine artists of earth, air, and sea.

Was there ever such another theatre as this of Taormina? Turned to the south, hollowed from
the crest of a promontory 1000 feet above the sea, it faces Etna with its crown of snow: below,
the coast sweeps onward to Catania and the distant headland of Syracuse. From the back the
shore of Sicily curves with delicately indented bays towards Messina: then come the straits,
and the blunt mass of the Calabrian mountains terminating Italy at Spartivento. Every spot
on which the eye can rest is rife with reminiscences. It was there, we say, looking northward
to the straits, that Ulysses tossed between Scylla and Charybdis; there, turning towards the
flank of Etna, that he met with Polyphemus and defied the giant from his galley. From yonder
snow-capped eyrie, [Greek: Aitnas skopia], the rocks were hurled on Acis. And all along that
shore, after Persephone was lost, went Demeter, torch in hand, wailing for the daughter she
could no more find among Sicilian villages. Then, leaving myths for history, we remember how
the ships of Nikias set sail from Reggio, and coasted the forelands at our feet, past Naxos,
on their way to Catania and Syracuse. Gylippus afterwards in his swift galley took the same
course: and Dion, when he came to destroy his nephew's empire. Here too Timoleon landed, resolute
in his firm will to purge the isle of tyrants.

What scenes, more spirit-shaking than any tragic shows--pageants of fire and smoke, and mountains
in commotion--are witnessed from these grassy benches, when the earth rocks, and the sea is
troubled, and the side of Etna flows with flame, and night grows horrible with bellowings that
forebode changes in empires!--

          Quoties Cyclopum effervere in agros
  Vidimus undantem ruptis fornacibus Ætnam,
  Flammarumque globos liquefactaque volvere saxa.

The stage of these tremendous pomps is very calm and peaceful now. Lying among acanthus leaves
and asphodels, bound together by wreaths of white and pink convolvulus, we only feel that this
is the loveliest landscape on which our eyes have ever rested or can rest. The whole scene
is a symphony of blues--gemlike lapis-lazuli in the sea, aërial azure in the distant headlands,
light-irradiated sapphire in the sky, and impalpable vapour-mantled purple upon Etna. The grey
tones of the neighbouring cliffs, and the glowing brickwork of the ruined theatre, through
the arches of which shine sea and hillside, enhance by contrast these modulations of the one
prevailing hue. Etna is the dominant feature of the landscape--[Greek: Aitna mater ema--polydendreos
Aitna]--than which no other mountain is more sublimely solitary, more worthy of Pindar's praise,
'The pillar of heaven, the nurse of sharp eternal snow.' It is Etna that gives its unique character
of elevated beauty to this coast scenery, raising it to a grander and more tragic level than
the landscape of the Cornice and the Bay of Naples.

PALERMO

THE NORMANS IN SICILY

Sicily, in the centre of the Mediterranean, has been throughout all history the meeting-place
and battle-ground of the races that contributed to civilise the West. It was here that the
Greeks measured their strength against Phoenicia, and that Carthage fought her first duel with
Rome. Here the bravery of Hellenes triumphed over barbarian force in the victories of Gelon
and Timoleon. Here, in the harbour of Syracuse, the Athenian Empire succumbed to its own intemperate
ambition. Here, in the end, Rome laid her mortmain upon Greek, Phoenician, and Sikeliot alike,
turning the island into a granary and reducing its inhabitants to serfdom. When the classic
age had closed, when Belisarius had vainly reconquered from the Goths for the empire of the
East the fair island of Persephone and Zeus Olympius, then came the Mussulman, filling up with
an interval of Oriental luxury and Arabian culture the period of utter deadness between the
ancient and the modern world. To Islam succeeded the conquerors of the house of Hauteville,
Norman knights who had but lately left their Scandinavian shores, and settled in the northern
provinces of France. The Normans flourished for a season, and were merged in a line of Suabian
princes, old Barbarossa's progeny. German rulers thus came to sway the corn-lands of Trinacria,
until the bitter hatred of the Popes extinguished the house of Hohenstauffen upon the battlefield
of Grandella and the scaffold of Naples. Frenchmen had the next turn--for a brief space only;
since Palermo cried to the sound of her tocsins, 'Mora, Mora,' and the tyranny of Anjou was
expunged with blood. Spain, the tardy and patient power, which inherited so much from the failure
of more brilliant races, came at last, and tightened so firm a hold upon the island, that from
the end of the thirteenth to the beginning of the nineteenth century, with one brief exception,
Sicily belonged to the princes of Aragon, Castile, and Bourbon. These vicissitudes have left
their traces everywhere. The Greek temples of Segeste and Girgenti and Selinus, the Roman amphitheatre
of Syracuse, the Byzantine mosaics and Saracenic villas of Palermo, the Norman cathedrals of
Monreale and Cefalú, and the Spanish habits which still characterise the life of Sicilian cities,
testify to the successive strata of races which have been deposited upon the island. Amid its
anarchy of tongues, the Latin alone has triumphed. In the time of the Greek colonists Sicily
was polyglot. During the Saracenic occupation it was trilingual. It is now, and during modern
history it has always been, Italian. Differences of language and of nationality have gradually
been fused into one substance, by the spirit which emanates from Rome, and vivifies the Latin race.

The geographical position of Sicily has always influenced its history in a very marked way.
The eastern coast, which is turned towards Greece and Italy, has been the centre of Aryan civilisation
in the island, so that during Greek and Roman ascendency Syracuse was held the capital. The
western end, which projects into the African sea, was occupied in the time of the Hellenes
by Phoenicians, and afterwards by Mussulmans: consequently Panormus, the ancient seat of Punic
colonists, now called Palermo, became the centre of the Moslem rule, which, inherited entire
by the Norman chieftains, was transmitted eventually to Spain. Palermo, devoid of classic monuments,
and unknown except as a name to the historians of Greek civilisation, is therefore the modern
capital of the island. 'Prima sedes, corona regis, et regni caput,' is the motto inscribed
upon the cathedral porch and the archiepiscopal throne of Palermo: nor has any other city,
except Messina,[1] presumed to contest this title.

    [1] Messina, owing to its mercantile position between the
    Levant, Italy, and France, and as the key to Sicily from
    the mainland, might probably have become the modern
    capital had not the Normans found a state machinery ready
    to their use centralised at Palermo.

Perhaps there are few spots upon the surface of the globe more beautiful than Palermo. The
hills on either hand descend upon the sea with long-drawn delicately broken outlines, so exquisitely
tinted with aërial hues, that at early dawn or beneath the blue light of a full moon the panorama
seems to be some fabric of the fancy, that must fade away, 'like shapes of clouds we form,'
to nothing. Within the cradle of these hills, and close upon the tideless water, lies the city.
Behind and around on every side stretches the famous Conca d'Oro, or golden shell, a plain
of marvellous fertility, so called because of its richness and also because of its shape; for
it tapers to a fine point where the mountains meet, and spreads abroad, where they diverge,
like a cornucopia, toward the sea. The whole of this long vega is a garden, thick with olive-groves
and orange-trees, with orchards of nespole and palms and almonds, with fig-trees and locust-trees,
with judas-trees that blush in spring, and with flowers as multitudinously brilliant as the
fretwork of sunset clouds. It was here that in the days of the Kelbite dynasty, the sugar-cane
and cotton-tree and mulberry supplied both East and West with produce for the banquet and the
paper-mill and the silk-loom; and though these industries are now neglected, vast gardens of
cactuses still give a strangely Oriental character to the scenery of Palermo, while the land
flows with honey-sweet wine instead of sugar. The language in which Arabian poets extolled
the charms of this fair land is even now nowise extravagant: 'Oh how beautiful is the lakelet
of the twin palms, and the island where the spacious palace stands! The limpid water of the
double springs resembles liquid pearls, and their basin is a sea: you would say that the branches
of the trees stretched down to see the fishes in the pool and smile at them. The great fishes
swim in those clear waters, and the birds among the gardens tune their songs. The ripe oranges
of the island are like fire that burns on boughs of emerald; the pale lemon reminds me of a
lover who has passed the night in weeping for his absent darling. The two palms may be compared
to lovers who have gained an inaccessible retreat against their enemies, or raise themselves
erect in pride to confound the murmurs and ill thoughts of jealous men. O palms of the two
lakelets of Palermo, may ceaseless, undisturbed, and plenteous dews for ever keep your freshness!'
Such is the poetry which suits the environs of Palermo, where the Moorish villas of La Zisa
and La Cuba and La Favara still stand, and where the modern gardens, though wilder, are scarcely
less delightful than those beneath which King Roger discoursed with Edrisi, and Gian da Procida
surprised his sleeping mistress.[1] The groves of oranges and lemons are an inexhaustible source
of joy: not only because of their 'golden lamps in a green night,' but also because of their
silvery constellations, nebulæ, and drifts of stars, in the same green night, and milky ways
of blossoms on the ground beneath. As in all southern scenery, the transition from these perfumed
thickly clustering gardens to the bare unirrigated hillsides is very striking. There the dwarf-palm
tufts with its spiky foliage the clefts of limestone rock, and the lizards run in and out among
bushes of tree-spurge and wild cactus and grey asphodels. The sea-shore is a tangle of lilac
and oleander and laurustinus and myrtle and lentisk and cytisus and geranium. The flowering
plants that make our shrubberies gay in spring with blossoms, are here wild, running riot upon
the sand-heaps of Mondello or beneath the barren slopes of Monte Pellegrino.

It was into this terrestrial paradise, cultivated through two preceding centuries by the Arabs,
who of all races were wisest in the arts of irrigation and landscape-gardening, that the Norsemen
entered as conquerors, and lay down to pass their lives.[2]

    [1] Boccaccio, Giorn. v. Nov. 6.

    [2] The Saracens possessed themselves of Sicily by a
    gradual conquest, which began about 827 A.D. Disembarking
    on the little isle of Pantellaria and the headland of
    Lilyboeum, where of old the Carthaginians used to enter
    Sicily, they began by overrunning the island for the first
    four years. In 831 they took Palermo; during the next ten
    years they subjugated the Val di Mazara; between 841 and
    859 they possessed themselves of the Val di Noto; after
    this they extended their conquest over the seaport towns
    of the Val Demone, but neglected to reduce the whole of
    the N.E. district. Syracuse was stormed and reduced to
    ruins after a desperate defence in 878, while Leo, the
    heir of the Greek Empire, contented himself with composing
    two Anacreontic elegies on the disaster at Byzantium. In
    895 Sicily was wholly lost to the Greeks, by a treaty
    signed between the Saracens and the remaining Christian
    towns. The Christians during the Mussulman occupation were
    divided into four classes--(1) A few independent
    municipalities obedient loosely to the Greek Empire; (2)
    tributaries who paid the Arabs what they would otherwise
    have sent to Byzantium; (3) vassals, whose towns had
    fallen by arms or treaty into the hands of the conquerors,
    and who, though their property was respected and religion
    tolerated, were called 'dsimmi' or 'humbled;' (4) serfs,
    prisoners of war, sold as slaves or attached to the soil
    (Amari, vol. i.).

No chapter of history more resembles a romance than that which records the sudden rise and
brief splendour of the house of Hauteville. In one generation the sons of Tancred passed from
the condition of squires in the Norman vale of Cotentin, to kinghood in the richest island
of the southern sea. The Norse adventurers became Sultans of an Oriental capital. The sea-robbers
assumed together with the sceptre the culture of an Arabian court. The marauders whose armies
burned Rome, received at papal hands the mitre and dalmatic as symbols of ecclesiastical jurisdiction.[1]
The brigands who on their first appearance in Italy had pillaged stables and farmyards to supply
their needs, lived to mate their daughters with princes and to sway the politics of Europe
with gold. The freebooters, whose skill consisted in the use of sword and shield, whose brains
were vigorous in strategy or statecraft, and whose pleasures were confined to the hunting-field
and the wine-cup, raised villas like the Zisa and encrusted the cathedral of Monreale with
mosaics. Finally, while the race was yet vigorous, after giving two heroes to the first Crusade,
it transmitted its titles, its temper, and its blood to the great Emperor, who was destined
to fight out upon the battlefield of Italy the strife of Empire against Papacy, and to bequeath
to mediæval Europe the tradition of cosmopolitan culture. The physical energy of this brood
of heroes was such as can scarcely be paralleled in history. Tancred de Hauteville begat two
families by different wives. Of his children twelve were sons; two of whom stayed with their
father in Normandy, while ten sought fame and found a kingdom in the south. Of these, William
Iron Arm, the first Count of Apulia; Robert Guiscard, who united Calabria and Apulia under
one dukedom, and carried victorious arms against both Emperors of East and West; and Roger
the Great Count, who added Sicily to the conquests of the Normans and bequeathed the kingdom
of South Italy to his son, rose to the highest name. But all the brothers shared the great
qualities of the house; and two of them, Humphrey and Drogo, also wore a coronet. Large of
limb and stout of heart, persevering under difficulties, crafty yet gifted with the semblance
of sincerity, combining the piety of pilgrims with the morals of highwaymen, the sturdiness
of barbarians with the plasticity of culture, eloquent in the council-chamber and the field,
dear to their soldiers for their bravery and to women for their beauty, equally eminent as
generals and as rulers, restrained by no scruples but such as policy suggested, restless in
their energy, yet neither fickle nor rash, comprehensive in their views, but indefatigable
in detail, these lions among men were made to conquer in the face of overwhelming obstacles,
and to hold their conquests with a grasp of iron. What they wrought, whether wisely or not
for the ultimate advantage of Italy, endures to this day, while the work of so many emperors,
republics, and princes has passed and shifted like the scenes in a pantomime. Through them
the Greeks, the Lombards, and the Moors were extinguished in the south. The Papacy was checked
in its attempt to found a province of S. Peter below the Tiber. The republics of Naples, Gaeta,
Amalfi, which might have rivalled perchance with Milan, Genoa, and Florence, were subdued to
a master's hand. In short, to the Normans Italy owed that kingdom of the Two Sicilies which
formed one-third of her political balance, and which proved the cause of all her most serious
revolutions.

    [1] King Roger in the mosaics of the Martorana Church at
    Palermo wears the dalmatic, and receives his crown from
    the hands of Christ.

Roger, the youngest of the Hauteville family, and the founder of the kingdom of Sicily, showed
by his untamable spirit and sound intellect that his father's vigour remained unexhausted.
Each of Tancred's sons was physically speaking a masterpiece, and the last was the prime work
of all. This Roger, styled the Great Count, begat a second Roger, the first King of Sicily,
whose son and grandson, both named William, ruled in succession at Palermo. With them the direct
line of the house of Hauteville expired. It would seem as if the energy and fertility of the
stock had been drained by its efforts in the first three generations. Constance, the heiress
of the family, who married Henry VI. and gave birth to the Emperor Frederick II., was daughter
of King Roger, and therefore third in descent from Tancred. Drawing her blood more immediately
from the parent stem, she thus transmitted to the princes of the race of Hohenstauffen the
vigour of her Norman ancestry unweakened. This was a circumstance of no small moment in the
history of Europe. Upon the fierce and daring Suabian stem were grafted the pertinacity, the
cunning, the versatility of the Norman adventurers. Young Frederick, while strong and subtle
enough to stand for himself against the world, was so finely tempered by the blended strains
of his parentage that he received the polish of an Oriental education without effeminacy. Called
upon to administer the affairs of Germany, to govern Italy, to contend with the Papacy, and
to settle by arms and treaties the great Oriental question of his days, Frederick, cosmopolitan
from the cradle, was equal to the task. Had Europe been but ready, the Renaissance would have
dated from his reign, and a universal empire, if not of political government, yet of intellectual
culture, might have been firmly instituted.

Of the personal appearance of the Norman chiefs--their fair hair, clear eyes, and broad shoulders--we
hear much from the chroniclers. One minutely studied portrait will serve to bring the whole
race vividly before us. Bohemond, Prince of Tarentum, the son of Robert Guiscard, and first
cousin to Tancred of Montferrat, was thus described by Anna Comnena, who saw him at her father's
court during the first Crusade: 'Neither amongst our own nation (the Greeks), nor amongst foreigners,
is there in our age a man equal to Bohemond. His presence dazzled the eyes, as his reputation
the fancy. He was one cubit taller than the tallest man known. In his waist he was thin, but
broad in his shoulders and chest, without being either too thin or too fat. His arms were strong,
his hands full and large, his feet firm and solid. He stooped a little, but through habit only,
and not on account of any deformity. He was fair, but on his cheeks there was an agreeable
mixture of vermilion. His hair was not loose over his shoulders, according to the fashion of
the barbarians, but was cut above his ears. His eyes were blue, and full of wrath and fierceness.
His nostrils were large, inasmuch as having a wide chest and a great heart, his lungs required
an unusual quantity of air to moderate the warmth of his blood. His handsome face had in itself
something gentle and softening, but the height of his person and the fierceness of his looks
had something wild and terrible. He was more dreadful in his smiles than others in their rage.'
When we read this description, remembering the romance of Bohemond's ancestry and his own life,
we do not wonder at the tales of chivalry. Those 'knights of Logres and of Lyoness, Lancelot
or Pelleas or Pellenore,' with whose adventures our tawny-haired magnificent Plantagenets amused
their leisure, become realities. The manly beauty, described by the Byzantine princess in words
which seem to betray a more than common interest in her handsome foe, was hereditary in the
house of Hauteville. They transmitted it to the last of the Suabian dynasty, to Manfred and
Conradin, and to the king Enzio, whose long golden hair fell down from his shoulders to his
saddle-bow as he rode, a captive, into Bologna.

The story of the Norman conquest is told by two chroniclers--William of Apulia, who received
his materials from Robert Guiscard, and Godfrey Malaterra, who wrote down the oral narrative
of Roger. Thus we possess what is tantamount to personal memoirs of the Norman chiefs. Nevertheless,
a veil of legendary romance obscures the first appearance of the Scandinavian warriors upon
the scene of history. William of Apulia tells how, in the course of a pilgrimage to S. Michael's
shrine on Monte Gargano, certain knights of Normandy were accosted by a stranger of imposing
aspect, who persuaded them to draw their swords in the quarrel of the Lombard towns of South
Italy against the Greeks. This man was Melo of Bari. Whether his invitation were so theatrically
conveyed or not, it is probable that the Norsemen made their first acquaintance with Apulia
on a pilgrimage to the Italian Michael's mount; and it is certain that Melo, whom we dimly
descry as a patriot of enlarged views and indomitable constancy, provided them with arms and
horses, raised troops in Salerno and Benevento to assist them, and directed them against the
Greeks. This happened in 1017. Twelve years later we find the town of Aversa built and occupied
by Normans under the control of their Count Rainulf; while another band, headed by Ardoin,
a Lombard of Milan, lived at large upon the country, selling its services to the Byzantine
Greeks. In the anarchy of Southern Italy at this epoch, when the decaying Empire of the East
was relaxing its hold upon the Apulian provinces, when the Papacy was beginning to lift up
its head after the ignominy of Theodora and Marozia, and the Lombard power was slowly dissolving
upon its ill-established foundations, the Norman adventurers pursued a policy which, however
changeful, was invariably self-advantageous. On whatever side they fought, they took care that
the profits of war should accrue to their own colony. Quarrel as they might among themselves,
they were always found at one against a common foe. And such was their reputation in the field,
that the hardiest soldiers errant of all nations joined their standard. Thus it fell out that
when Ardoin and his Normans had helped Maniaces to wrest the eastern districts of Sicily from
the Moors, they returned, upon an insult offered by the Greek general, to extend the right
hand of fellowship to Rainulf and his Normans of Aversa. 'Why should you stay here like a rat
in his hole, when with our help you might rule those fertile plains, expelling the women in
armour who keep guard over them?' The agreement of Ardoin and Rainulf formed the basis of the
future Norman power. Their companies joined forces. Melfi was chosen as the centre of their
federal government. The united Norman colony elected twelve chiefs or counts of equal authority;
and henceforth they thought only of consolidating their ascendency over the effete races which
had hitherto pretended to employ their arms. The genius of their race and age, however, was
unfavourable to federations. In a short time the ablest man among them, the true king, by right
of personal vigour and mental cunning, showed himself. It was at this point that the house
of Hauteville rose to the altitude of its romantic destiny. William Iron Arm was proclaimed
Count of Apulia. Two of his brothers succeeded him in the same dignity. His half-brother, Robert
Guiscard, imprisoned one Pope,[1] Leo IX., and wrested from another, Nicholas II., the title
of Duke of Apulia and Calabria. By the help of his youngest brother, Roger, he gradually completed
the conquest of Italy below the Tiber, and then addressed himself to the task of subduing Sicily.
The Papacy, incapable of opposing the military vigour of the Northmen, was distracted between
jealousy of their growing importance and desire to utilise them for its own advantage.[2] The
temptation to employ these filial pirates as a catspaw for restoring Sicily to the bosom of
the Church, was too strong to be resisted. In spite of many ebbs and flows of policy, the favour
which the Popes accorded to the Normans gilded the might and cunning of the adventurers with
the specious splendour of acknowledged sanctity. The time might come for casting off these
powerful allies and adding their conquests to the patrimony of S. Peter. Meanwhile it costs
nothing to give away what does not belong to one, particularly when by doing so a title to
the same is gradually formed. So the Popes reckoned. Robert and Roger went forth with banners
blessed by Rome to subjugate the island of the Greek and Moor.

    [1] The Normans were lucky in getting hold of Popes. King
    Roger caught Innocent II. at San Germano in 1139, and got
    from him the confirmation of all his titles.

    [2] Even the great Hildebrand wavered in his policy toward
    Robert Guiscard. Having raised an army by the help of the
    Countess Matilda in 1074, he excommunicated Robert and
    made war against him. Robert proved more than his match in
    force and craft; and Hildebrand had to confirm his title
    as duke, and designate him Knight of S. Peter in 1080.
    When Robert drove the Emperor Henry IV. from Rome, and
    burned the city of the Coelian, Hildebrand retired with
    his terrible defender to Salerno, and died there in 1085.
    Robert and both Rogers were good sons of the Church,
    deserving the titles of 'Terror of the faithless,' 'Sword
    of the Lord drawn from the scabbard of Sicily,' as long as
    they were suffered to pursue their own schemes of empire.
    They respected the Pope's person and his demesne of
    Benevento; they were largely liberal in donations to
    churches and abbeys. But they did not suffer their piety
    to interfere with their ambition.

The honours of this conquest, paralleled for boldness only by the achievements of Cortes and
Pizarro, belong to Roger. It is true that since the fall of the Kelbite dynasty Sicily had
been shaken by anarchy and despotism, by the petty quarrels of princes and party leaders, and
to some extent also by the invasion of Maniaces. Yet on the approach of Roger with a handful
of Norman knights, 'the island was guarded,' to quote Gibbon's energetic phrase, 'to the water's
edge.' For some years he had to content himself with raids and harrying excursions, making
Messina, which he won from the Moors by the aid of their Christian serfs and vassals, the basis
of his operations, and retiring from time to time across the Faro with booty to Reggio. The
Mussulmans had never thoroughly subdued the north-eastern highlands of Sicily. Satisfied with
occupying the whole western and southern sections of the island, with planting their government
firmly at Palermo, destroying Syracuse, and establishing a military fort on the heights of
Castro Giovanni, they had somewhat neglected the Christian populations of the Val Demone. Thus
the key to Sicily upon the Italian side fell into the hands of the invaders. From Messina Roger
advanced by Rametta and Centorbi to Troina, a hill-town raised high above the level of the
sea, within view of the solemn blue-black pyramid of Etna. There he planted a garrison in 1062,
two years after his first incursion into the island. The interval had been employed in marches
and countermarches, descents upon the vale of Catania, and hurried expeditions as far as Girgenti,
on the southern coast. One great battle is recorded beneath the walls of Castro Giovanni, when
six hundred Norman knights, so say the chroniclers, engaged with fifteen thousand of the Arabian
chivalry and one hundred thousand foot soldiers. However great the exaggeration of these numbers,
it is certain that the Christians fought at fearful odds that day, and that all the eloquence
of Roger, who wrought on their fanaticism in his speech before the battle, was needed to raise
their courage to the sticking-point. The scene of the great rout of Saracens which followed,
is in every respect memorable. Castro Giovanni, the old Enna of the Greeks and Romans, stands
on the top of a precipitous mountain, two thousand feet above a plain which waves with corn.
A sister height, Calascibetta, raised nearly to an equal altitude, keeps ward over the same
valley; and from their summits the whole of Sicily is visible. Here in old days Demeter from
her rock-built temple could survey vast tracts of hill and dale, breaking downwards to the
sea and undulating everywhere with harvest. The much praised lake and vale of Enna[1] are now
a desolate sulphur district, void of beauty, with no flowers to tempt Proserpine. Yet the landscape
is eminently noble because of its breadth--bare naked hills stretching in every direction to
the sea that girdles Sicily--peak rising above peak and town-capped eyrie over eyrie--while
Etna, wreathed with snow, and purple with the peculiar colour of its coal-black lava seen through
light-irradiated air, sleeps far off beneath a crown of clouds. Upon the cornfields in the
centre of this landscape the multitudes of the Infidels were smitten hip and thigh by the handful
of Christian warriors. Yet the victory was by no means a decisive one. The Saracens swarmed
round the Norman fortress of Troina; where, during a severe winter, Roger and his young wife,
Judith of Evreux, whom he had loved in Normandy, and who journeyed to marry him amid the din
of battles, had but one cloak to protect them both from the cold. The traveller, who even in
April has experienced the chill of a high-set Sicilian village, will not be inclined to laugh
at the hardships revealed by this little incident. Yet the Normans, one and all, were stanch.
A victory over their assailants in the spring gave them courage to push their arms as far as
the river Himera and beyond the Simeto, while a defeat of fifty thousand Saracens by four hundred
Normans at Cerami opened the way at last to Palermo. Reading of these engagements, we are led
to remember how Gelon smote his Punic foes upon the Himera, and Timoleon arrayed Greeks by
the ten against Carthaginians by the thousand on the Crimisus. The battlefields are scarcely
altered; the combatants are as unequally matched, and represent analogous races. It is still
the combat of a few heroic Europeans against the hordes of Asia. In the battle of Cerami it
is said that S. George fought visibly on horseback before the Christian band, like that wide-winged
chivalrous archangel whom Spinello Aretino painted beside Sant' Efeso in the press of men upon
the walls of the Pisan Campo Santo.

    [1] Cicero's description of Enna is still accurate: 'Enna
    is placed in a very lofty and exposed situation, at the
    top of which is a tableland and never-failing supply of
    springs. The whole site is cut off from access, and
    precipitous.' But when he proceeds to say, 'many groves
    and lakes surround it and luxuriant flowers through all
    the year,' we cannot follow him. The only quality which
    Enna has not lost is the impregnable nature of its cliffs.
    A few poplars and thorns are all that remain of its
    forests. Did we not know that the myth of Demeter and
    Persephone was a poem of seed-time and harvest, we might
    be tempted, while sitting on the crags of Castro Giovanni
    and looking toward the lake, to fancy that in old days a
    village dependent upon Enna, and therefore called her
    daughter, might have occupied the site of the lake, and
    that this village might have been withdrawn into the earth
    by the volcanic action which produced the cavity. Then
    people would have said that Demeter had lost Persephone
    and sought her vainly through all the cities of Sicily:
    and if this happened in spring Persephone might well have
    been thought to have been gathering flowers at the time
    when Hades took her to himself. So easy and yet so
    dangerous is it to rationalise a legend.

The capture of Palermo cost the Normans another eight years, part of which was spent according
to their national tactics in plundering expeditions, part in the subjugation of Catania and
other districts, part in the blockade of the capital by sea and land. After the fall of Palermo,
it only remained for Roger to reduce isolated cities--Taormina, Syracuse,[1] Girgenti, and
Castro Giovanni--to his sway. The last-named and strongest hold of the Saracens fell into his
hands by the treason of Ibn-Hamûud in 1087, and thus, after thirty years' continual effort,
the two brothers were at last able to divide the island between them. The lion's share, as
was due, fell to Roger, who styled himself Great Count of Sicily and Calabria. In 1098, Urban
II., a politician of the school of Cluny, who well understood the scope of Hildebrand's plan
for subjecting Europe to the Court of Rome, rewarded Roger for his zeal in the service of the
Church with the title of Hereditary Apostolical Legate. The Great Count was now on a par with
the most powerful monarchs of Europe. In riches he exceeded all; so that he was able to wed
one daughter to the King of Hungary, another to Conrad, King of Italy, a third to Raimond,
Count of Provence and Toulouse, dowering them all with imperial munificence.

    [1] In this siege, as in that of the Athenians, and of the
    Saracens 878 A.D., decisive engagements took place in the
    great harbour.

Hale and vigorous, his life was prolonged through a green old age until his seventieth year;
when he died in 1101, he left two sons by his third wife, Adelaide. Roger, the younger of the
two, destined to succeed his father, and (on the death of his cousin, William, Duke of Apulia,
in 1127) to unite South Italy and Sicily under one crown, was only four years old at the death
of the Great Count. Inheriting all the valour and intellectual qualities of his family, he
rose to even higher honour than his predecessors. In 1130 he assumed the style of King of Sicily,
no doubt with the political purpose of impressing his Mussulman subjects; and nine years later,
when he took Innocent captive at San Germano, he forced from the half-willing pontiff a confirmation
of this title as well as the investiture of Apulia, Calabria, and Capua. The extent of his
sway is recorded in the line engraved upon his sword:--

  Appulus et Calaber Siculus mihi servit et Afer.

King Roger died in 1154, and bequeathed his kingdoms to his son William, surnamed the Bad;
who in his turn left them to a William, called the Good, in 1166. The second William died in
1189, transmitting his possessions by will to Constance, wife of the Suabian emperor. These
two Williams, the last of the Hauteville monarchs of Sicily, were not altogether unworthy of
their Norman origin. William the Bad could rouse himself from the sloth of his seraglio to
head an army; William the Good, though feeble in foreign policy, and no general, administered
the state with clemency and wisdom.

Sicily under the Normans offered the spectacle of a singularly hybrid civilisation. Christians
and Northmen, adopting the habits and imbibing the culture of their Mussulman subjects, ruled
a mixed population of Greeks, Arabs, Berbers, and Italians. The language of the princes was
French; that of the Christians in their territory, Greek and Latin; that of their Mahommedan
subjects, Arabic. At the same time the Scandinavian Sultans of Palermo did not cease to play
an active part in the affairs, both civil and ecclesiastical, of Europe. The children of the
Vikings, though they spent their leisure in harems, exercised, as hereditary Legates of the
Holy See, a peculiar jurisdiction in the Church of Sicily. They dispensed benefices to the
clergy, and assumed the mitre and dalmatic, together with the sceptre, and the crown, as symbols
of their authority in Church as well as State. As a consequence of this confusion of nationalities
in Sicily, we find French and English ecclesiastics[1] mingling at court with Moorish freedmen
and Oriental odalisques, Apulian captains fraternising with Greek corsairs, Jewish physicians
in attendance on the person of the prince, and Arabian poets eloquent in his praises. The very
money with which Roger subsidised his Italian allies was stamped with Cuphic letters,[2] and
there is reason to believe that the reproach against Frederick of being a false coiner arose
from his adopting the Eastern device of plating copper pieces to pass for silver. The commander
of Roger's navies and his chief minister of state was styled, according to Oriental usage,
Emir or Ammiraglio. George of Antioch, who swept the shores of Africa, the Morea, and the Black
Sea, in his service, was a Christian of the Greek Church, who had previously held an office
of finance under Temin Prince of Mehdia. The workers in his silk factories were slaves from
Thebes and Corinth. The pages of his palace were Sicilian or African eunuchs. His charters
ran in Arabic as well as Greek and Latin. His jewellers engraved the rough gems of the Orient
with Christian mottoes in Semitic characters.[3] His architects were Mussulmans who adapted
their native style to the requirements of Christian ritual, and inscribed the walls of cathedrals
with Catholic legends in the Cuphic language. The predominant characteristic of Palermo was
Orientalism. Religious toleration was extended to the Mussulmans, so that the two creeds, Christian
and Mahommedan, flourished side by side. The Saracens had their own quarters in the towns,
their mosques and schools, and Cadis for the administration of petty justice. French and Italian
women in Palermo adopted the Oriental fashions of dress. The administration of law and government
was conducted on Eastern principles. In nothing had the Mussulmans shown greater genius than
in their system of internal statecraft. Count Roger found a machinery of taxation in full working
order, officers acquainted with the resources of the country, books and schedules constructed
on the principles of strictest accuracy, a whole bureaucracy, in fact, ready to his use. By
applying this machinery he became the richest potentate in Europe, at a time when the northern
monarchs were dependent upon feudal aids and precarious revenues from crown lands. In the same
way, the Saracens bequeathed to the Normans the court system, which they in turn had derived
from the princes of Persia and the example of Constantinople. Roger found it convenient to
continue that organisation of pages, chamberlains, ushers, secretaries, viziers, and masters
of the wardrobe, invested each with some authority of state according to his rank, which confined
the administration of an Eastern kingdom to the walls of the palace.[4] At Palermo Europe saw
the first instance of a court not wholly unlike that which Versailles afterwards became. The
intrigues which endangered the throne and liberty of William the Bad, and which perplexed the
policy of William the Good, were court-conspiracies of a kind common enough at Constantinople.
In this court life men of letters and erudition played a first part three centuries before
Petrarch taught the princes of Italy to respect the pen of a poet.

    [1] The English Gualterio Offamilio, or Walter of the
    Mill, Archbishop of Palermo during the reign of William
    the Good, by his intrigues brought about the match between
    Constance and Henry VI. Richard Palmer at the same time
    was Bishop of Syracuse. Stephen des Rotrous, a Frenchman
    of the Counts of Perche, preceded Walter of the Mill in
    the Arch See of Palermo.

    [2] Frederick Barbarossa's soldiers are said to have
    bidden the Romans: 'Take this German iron in change for
    Arab gold. This pay your master gives you, and this is how
    Franks win empire.'--Amari, vol. iii. p. 468.

    [3] The embroidered skullcap of Constance of Aragon, wife
    of Frederick II., in the sacristy of the cathedral at
    Palermo, is made of gold thread thickly studded with
    pearls and jewels--rough sapphires and carbuncles, among
    which may be noticed a red cornelian engraved in Arabic
    with this sentence, 'In Christ, God, I put my hope.'

    [4] The Arabic title of Kâid, which originally was given
    to a subordinate captain of the guard, took a wide
    significance at the Norman Court. Latinised to gaytus,
    and Grecised under the form of [Greek: kaitos], it
    frequently occurs in chronicles and diplomas to denote a
    high minister of state. Matteo of Ajello, who exercised so
    powerful an influence over the policy of William the Good,
    heading the Mussulman and national party against the great
    ecclesiastics who were intriguing to draw Sicily into the
    entanglements of European diplomacy, was a Kâid. Matteo
    favoured the cause of Tancred, Walter of the Mill espoused
    that of the Germans, during the war of succession which
    followed upon William's death. The barons of the realm had
    to range themselves under these two leaders--to such an
    extent were the affairs of state in Sicily within the
    grasp of courtiers and churchmen.

King Roger, of whom the court geographer Edrisi writes that 'he did more sleeping than any
other man waking,' was surrounded during his leisure moments, beneath the palm-groves of Favara,
with musicians, historians, travellers, mathematicians, poets, and astrologers of Oriental
breeding. At his command Ptolemy's Optics were translated into Latin from the Arabic. The prophecies
of the Erythrean Sibyl were rendered accessible in the same way. His respect for the occult
sciences was proved by his disinterring the bones of Virgil from their resting-place at Posilippo,
and placing them in the Castel dell' Uovo in order that he might have access through necromancy
to the spirit of the Roman wizard. It may be remembered in passing, that Palermo in one of
her mosques already held suspended between earth and air the supposed relics of Aristotle.
Such were the saints of modern culture in its earliest dawning. While Venice was robbing Alexandria
of the body of S. Mark, Palermo and Naples placed themselves beneath the protection of a philosopher
and a poet. But Roger's greatest literary work was the compilation of a treatise of universal
geography. Fifteen years were devoted to the task; and the manuscript, in Arabic, drawn up
by the philosopher Edrisi, appeared only six weeks before the king's death in 1154. This book,
called 'The Book of Roger, or the Delight of whoso loves to make the Circuit of the World,'
was based upon the previous labours of twelve geographers, classical and Mussulman. But aiming
at greater accuracy than could be obtained by a merely literary compilation, Roger caused pilgrims,
travellers, and merchants of all countries to be assembled for conference and examination before
him. Their accounts were sifted and collated. Edrisi held the pen while Roger questioned. Measurements
and distances were carefully compared; and a vast silver disc was constructed, on which all
the seas, islands, continents, plains, rivers, mountain ranges, cities, roads, and harbours
of the known world were delineated. The text supplied an explanatory description of this map,
with tables of the products, habits, races, religions, and qualities, both physical and moral,
of all climates. The precious metal upon which the map was drawn proved its ruin, and the Geography
remained in the libraries of Arab scholars. Yet this was one of the first great essays of practical
exploration and methodical statistic, to which the genius of the Norseman and the Arab each
contributed a quota. The Arabians, by their primitive nomadic habits, by the necessities of
their system of taxation, by their predilection for astrology, by their experience as pilgrims,
merchants, and poets errant, were specially qualified for the labour of geographical investigation.
Roger supplied the unbounded curiosity and restless energy of his Scandinavian temper, the
kingly comprehensive intellect of his race, and the authority of a prince who was powerful
enough to compel the service of qualified collaborators.

The architectural works of the Normans in Palermo reveal the same ascendency of Arab culture.
San Giovanni degli Eremiti, with its low white rounded domes, is nothing more or less than
a little mosque adapted to the rites of Christians.[1] The country palaces of the Zisa and
the Cuba, built by the two Williams, retain their ancient Moorish character. Standing beneath
the fretted arches of the hall of the Zisa, through which a fountain flows within a margin
of carved marble, and looking on the landscape from its open porch, we only need to reconstruct
in fancy the green gardens and orange-groves, where fair-haired Normans whiled away their hours
among black-eyed odalisques and graceful singing boys from Persia. Amid a wild tangle of olive
and lemon trees overgrown with scarlet passion-flowers, the pavilion of the Cubola, built of
hewn stone and open at each of its four sides, still stands much as it stood when William II.
paced through flowers from his palace of the Cuba, to enjoy the freshness of the evening by
the side of its fountain. The views from all these Saracenic villas over the fruitful valley
of the Golden Horn, and the turrets of Palermo, and the mountains and the distant sea, are
ineffably delightful. When the palaces were new--when the gilding and the frescoes still shone
upon their honeycombed ceilings, when their mosaics glittered in noonday twilight, and their
amber-coloured masonry was set in shade of pines and palms, and the cool sound of rivulets
made music in their courts and gardens, they must have well deserved their Arab titles of 'Sweet
Waters' and 'The Glory' and 'The Paradise of Earth.'

    [1] Tradition asserts that the tocsin of this church gave
    the signal in Palermo to the massacre of the Sicilian
    Vespers.

But the true splendour of Palermo, that which makes this city one of the most glorious of the
south, is to be sought in its churches--in the mosaics of the Cappella Palatina founded by
King Roger, in the vast aisles and cloisters of Monreale built by King William the Good at
the instance of his Chancellor Matteo,[1] in the Cathedral of Palermo begun by Offamilio, and
in the Martorana dedicated by George the Admiral. These triumphs of ecclesiastical architecture,
none the less splendid because they cannot be reduced to rule or assigned to any single style,
were the work of Saracen builders assisted by Byzantine, Italian, and Norman craftsmen. The
genius of Latin Christianity determined the basilica shape of the Cathedral of Monreale. Its
bronze doors were wrought by smiths of Trani and Pisa. Its walls were incrusted with the mosaics
of Constantinople. The woodwork of its roof, and the emblazoned patterns in porphyry and serpentine
and glass and smalto, which cover its whole surface, were designed by Oriental decorators.
Norman sculptors added their dog-tooth and chevron to the mouldings of its porches; Greeks,
Frenchmen, and Arabs may have tried their skill in turn upon the multitudinous ornaments of
its cloister capitals. 'The like of which church,' said Lucius III. in 1182, 'hath not been
constructed by any king even from ancient times, and such an one as must compel all men to
admiration.' These words remain literally and emphatically true. Other cathedrals may surpass
that of Monreale in sublimity, simplicity, bulk, strength, or unity of plan. None can surpass
it in the strange romance with which the memory of its many artificers invests it. None again
can exceed it in richness and glory, in the gorgeousness of a thousand decorative elements
subservient to one controlling thought. 'It is evident,' says Fergusson in his 'History of
Architecture,' 'that all the architectural features in the building were subordinate in the
eyes of the builders to the mosaic decorations, which cover every part of the interior, and
are in fact the glory and the pride of the edifice, and alone entitle it to rank among the
finest of mediæval churches.' The whole of the Christian history is depicted in this series
of mosaics; but on first entering, one form alone compels attention. The semi-dome of the eastern
apse above the high altar is entirely filled with a gigantic half-length figure of Christ.
He raises His right hand to bless, and with His left holds an open book on which is written
in Greek and Latin, 'I am the Light of the world.' His face is solemn and severe, rather than
mild or piteous; and round His nimbus runs the legend [Greek: 'Iêsous Christos ho pantokratôr].
Below Him on a smaller scale are ranged the archangels and the mother of the Lord, who holds
the child upon her knees. Thus Christ appears twice upon this wall, once as the Omnipotent
Wisdom, the Word by whom all things were made, and once as God deigning to assume a shape of
flesh and dwell with men. The magnificent image of supreme Deity seems to fill with a single
influence and to dominate the whole building. The house with all its glory is His. He dwells
there like Pallas in her Parthenon or Zeus in his Olympian temple. To left and right over every
square inch of the cathedral blaze mosaics, which portray the story of God's dealings with
the human race from the Creation downwards, together with those angelic beings and saints who
symbolise each in his own degree some special virtue granted to mankind. The walls of the fane
are therefore an open book of history, theology, and ethics for all men to read.

    [1] Matteo of Ajello induced William to found an
    archbishopric at Monreale in order to spite his rival
    Offamilio.

The superiority of mosaics over fresco as an architectural adjunct on this gigantic scale is
apparent at a glance in Monreale. Permanency of splendour and glowing richness of tone are
all on the side of the mosaics. Their true rival is painted glass. The jewelled churches of
the south are constructed for the display of coloured surfaces illuminated by sunlight falling
on them from narrow windows, just as those of the north--Rheims, for example, or Le Mans--are
built for the transmission of light through a variegated medium of transparent hues. The painted
windows of a northern cathedral find their proper counterpart in the mosaics of the south.
The Gothic architect strove to obtain the greatest amount of translucent surface. The Byzantine
builder directed his attention to securing just enough light for the illumination of his glistening
walls. The radiance of the northern church was similar to that of flowers or sunset clouds
or jewels. The glory of the southern temple was that of dusky gold and gorgeous needlework.
The north needed acute brilliancy as a contrast to external greyness. The south found rest
from the glare and glow of noonday in these sombre splendours. Thus Christianity, both of the
south and of the north, decked her shrines with colour. Not so the Paganism of Hellas. With
the Greeks, colour, though used in architecture, was severely subordinated to sculpture; toned
and modified to a calculated harmony with actual nature, it did not, as in a Christian church,
create a world beyond the world, a paradise of supersensual ecstasy, but remained within the
limits of the known. Light falling upon carved forms of gods and heroes, bathing clear-cut
columns and sharp basreliefs in simple lustre, was enough for the Phoebean rites of Hellas.
Though we know that red and blue and green and gilding were employed to accentuate the mouldings
of Greek temples, yet neither the gloomy glory of mosaics nor the gemmed fretwork of storied
windows was needed to attune the souls of Hellenic worshippers to devotion.

Less vast than Monreale, but even more beautiful, because the charm of mosaic increases in
proportion as the surface it covers may be compared to the interior of a casket, is the Cappella
Palatina of the royal palace in Palermo. Here, again, the whole design and ornament are Arabo-Byzantine.
Saracenic pendentives with Cuphic legends incrust the richly painted ceiling of the nave. The
roofs of the apses and the walls are coated with mosaics, in which the Bible history, from
the dove that brooded over Chaos to the lives of S. Peter and S. Paul, receives a grand though
formal presentation. Beneath the mosaics are ranged slabs of grey marble, edged and divided
with delicate patterns of inserted glass, resembling drapery with richly embroidered fringes.
The floor is inlaid with circles of serpentine and porphyry encased in white marble, and surrounded
by winding bands of Alexandrine work. Some of these patterns are restricted to the five tones
of red, green, white, black, and pale yellow. Others add turquoise blue, and emerald, and scarlet,
and gold. Not a square inch of the surface--floor, roof, walls, or cupola--is free from exquisite
gemmed work of precious marbles. A candelabrum of fanciful design, combining lions devouring
men and beasts, cranes, flowers, and winged genii, stands by the pulpit. Lamps of chased silver
hang from the roof. The cupola blazes with gigantic archangels, stationed in a ring beneath
the supreme figure and face of Christ. Some of the Ravenna churches are more historically interesting,
perhaps, than this little masterpiece of the mosaic art. But none is so rich in detail and
lustrous in effect. It should be seen at night, when the lamps are lighted in a pyramid around
the sepulchre of the dead Christ on Holy Thursday, when partial gleams strike athwart the tawny
gold of the arches, and fall upon the profile of a priest declaiming in voluble Italian to
a listening crowd.

Such are a few of the monuments which still remain to show of what sort was the mixed culture
of Normans, Saracens, Italians, and Greeks at Palermo. In scenes like these the youth of Frederick
II. was passed:--for at the end, while treating of Palermo, we are bound to think again of
the Emperor who inherited from his German father the ambition of the Hohenstauffens, and from
his Norman mother the fair fields and Oriental traditions of Sicily. The strange history of
Frederick--an intellect of the eighteenth century born out of date, a cosmopolitan spirit in
the age of Saint Louis, the crusader who conversed with Moslem sages on the threshold of the
Holy Sepulchre, the Sultan of Lucera[1] who persecuted Paterini while he respected the superstition
of Saracens, the anointed successor of Charlemagne, who carried his harem with him to the battlefields
of Lombardy, and turned Infidels loose upon the provinces of Christ's Vicar--would be inexplicable,
were it not that Palermo still reveals in all her monuments the genius loci which gave spiritual
nurture to this phoenix among kings. From his Mussulman teachers Frederick derived the philosophy
to which he gave a vogue in Europe. From his Arabian predecessors he learnt the arts of internal
administration and finance, which he transmitted to the princes of Italy. In imitation of Oriental
courts, he adopted the practice of verse composition, which gave the first impulse to Italian
literature. His Grand Vizier, Piero Delle Vigne, set an example to Petrarch, not only by composing
the first sonnet in Italian, but also by showing to what height a low-born secretary versed
in art and law might rise. In a word, the zeal for liberal studies, the luxury of life, the
religious indifferentism, the bureaucratic system of state government, which mark the age of
the Italian Renaissance, found their first manifestation within the bosom of the Middle Ages
in Frederick. While our King John was signing Magna Charta, Frederick had already lived long
enough to comprehend, at least in outline, what is meant by the spirit of modern culture.[2]
It is true that the so-called Renaissance followed slowly and by tortuous paths upon the death
of Frederick. The Church obtained a complete victory over his family, and succeeded in extinguishing
the civilisation of Sicily. Yet the fame of the Emperor who transmitted questions of sceptical
philosophy to Arab sages, who conversed familiarly with men of letters, who loved splendour
and understood the arts of refined living, survived both long and late in Italy. His power,
his wealth, his liberality of soul and lofty aspirations, formed the theme of many a tale and
poem. Dante places him in hell among the heresiarchs; and truly the splendour of his supposed
infidelity found for him a goodly following. Yet Dante dated the rise of Italian literature
from the blooming period of the Sicilian court. Frederick's unorthodoxy proved no drawback
to his intellectual influence. More than any other man of mediæval times he contributed, if
only as the memory of a mighty name, to the progress of civilised humanity.

    [1] Charles of Anjou gave this nickname to Manfred, who
    carried on the Siculo-Norman tradition. Frederick, it may
    here be mentioned, had transferred his Saracen subjects of
    the vale of Mazara to Lucera in the Capitanate. He
    employed them as trusty troops in his warfare with the
    Popes and preaching friars. Nothing shows the confusion of
    the century in matters ecclesiastical and religious more
    curiously than that Frederick, who conducted a crusade and
    freed the Holy Sepulchre, should not only have tolerated
    the religion of Mussulmans, but also have armed them
    against the Head of the Church. What we are apt to regard
    as religious questions really belonged at that period to
    the sphere of politics.

    [2] It is curious to note that in this year 1215, the date
    of Magna Charta, Frederick took the Cross at
    Aix-la-Chapelle.

Let us take leave both of Frederick and of Palermo, that centre of converging influences which
was his cradle, in the cathedral where he lies gathered to his fathers. This church, though
its rich sunbrowned yellow[1] reminds one of the tone of Spanish buildings, is like nothing
one has seen elsewhere. Here even more than at Monreale the eye is struck with a fusion of
styles. The western towers are grouped into something like the clustered sheafs of the Caen
churches: the windows present Saracenic arches: the southern porch is covered with foliated
incrustations of a late and decorative Gothic style: the exterior of the apse combines Arabic
inlaid patterns of black and yellow with the Greek honeysuckle: the western door adds Norman
dog-tooth and chevron to the Saracenic billet. Nowhere is any one tradition firmly followed.
The whole wavers and yet is beautiful--like the immature eclecticism of the culture which Frederick
himself endeavoured to establish in his southern kingdoms. Inside there is no such harmony
of blended voices: all the strange tongues, which speak together on the outside, making up
a music in which the far North, and ancient Byzance, and the delicate East sound each a note,
are hushed. The frigid silence of the Palladian style reigns there--simple indeed and dignified,
but lifeless as the century in which it flourished.

    [1] Nearly all cities have their own distinctive colour.
    That of Venice is a pearly white suggestive of every hue
    in delicate abeyance, and that of Florence is a sober
    brown. Palermo displays a rich yellow ochre passing at the
    deepest into orange, and at the lightest into primrose.
    This is the tone of the soil, of sun-stained marble, and
    of the rough ashlar masonry of the chief buildings.
    Palermo has none of the glaring whiteness of Naples, nor
    yet of that particoloured gradation of tints which adds
    gaiety to the grandeur of Genoa.

Yet there, in a side chapel near the western door, stand the porphyry sarcophagi which shrine
the bones of the Hautevilles and their representatives. There sleeps King Roger--'Dux strenuus
et primus Rex Siciliæ'--with his daughter Constance in her purple chest beside him. Henry VI.
and Frederick II. and Constance of Aragon complete the group, which surpasses for interest
all sepulchral monuments--even the tombs of the Scaligers at Verona--except only, perhaps,
the statues of the nave of Innspruck. Very sombre and stately are these porphyry resting-places
of princes born in the purple, assembled here from lands so distant--from the craggy heights
of Hohenstauffen, from the green orchards of Cotentin, from the dry hills of Aragon. They sleep,
and the centuries pass by. Rude hands break open the granite lids of their sepulchres, to find
tresses of yellow hair and fragments of imperial mantles, embroidered with the hawks and stags
the royal hunter loved. The church in which they lie changes with the change of taste in architecture
and the manners of successive ages. But the huge stone arks remain unmoved, guarding their
freight of mouldering dust beneath gloomy canopies of stone that temper the sunlight as it
streams from the chapel windows.

SYRACUSE AND GIRGENTI

The traveller in Sicily is constantly reminded of classical history and literature. While tossing,
it may be, at anchor in the port of Trapani, and wondering when the tedious Libeccio will release
him, he must perforce remember that here Æneas instituted the games for Anchises. Here Mnestheus
and Gyas and Sergestus and Cloanthus raced their galleys: on yonder little isle the Centaur
struck; and that was the rock which received the dripping Menoetes:--

  Illum et labentem Teucri et risere natantem,
  Et salsos rident revomentem pectore fluctus.

Or crossing a broken bridge at night in the lumbering diligence, guarded by infantry with set
bayonets, and wondering on which side of the ravine the brigands are in ambush, he suddenly
calls to mind that this torrent was the ancient Halycus, the border between Greeks and Carthaginians,
established of old, and ratified by Timoleon after the battle of the Crimisus. Among the bare
grey hills of Segeste his thoughts revert to that strange story told by Herodotus of Philippus,
the young soldier of Crotona, whose beauty was so great, that when the Segesteans found him
slain among their foes, they raised the corpse and burned it on a pyre of honour, and built
a hero's temple over the urn that held his ashes. The first sight of Etna makes us cry with
Theocritus, [Greek: Aitna mater ema ... polydendreos Aitna]. The solemn heights of Castro Giovanni
bring lines of Ovid to our lips:--

  Haud procul Hennæis lacus est a moenibu altæ
  Nomine Pergus aquæ. Non illo plura Caystros
  Carmina cygnorum labentibus audit in undis.
  Silva coronat aquas, cingens latus omne; suisque
  Frondibus ut velo Phoebeos summovet ignes.
  Frigora dant rami, Tyrios humus humida flores.
  Perpetnum ver est.

We look indeed in vain for the leafy covert and the purple flowers that tempted Proserpine.
The place is barren now: two solitary cypress-trees mark the road which winds downwards from
a desolate sulphur mine, and the lake is clearly the crater of an extinct volcano. Yet the
voices of old poets are not mute. 'The rich Virgilian rustic measure' recalls a long-since
buried past. Even among the wavelets of the Faro we remember Homer, scanning the shore if haply
somewhere yet may linger the wild fig-tree which saved Ulysses from the whirlpool of Charybdis.
At any rate we cannot but exclaim with Goethe, 'Now all these coasts, gulfs, and creeks, islands
and peninsulas, rocks and sand-banks, wooded hills, soft meadows, fertile fields, neat gardens,
hanging grapes, cloudy mountains, constant cheerfulness of plains, cliffs and ridges, and the
surrounding sea, with such manifold variety are present in my mind; now is the "Odyssey" for
the first time become to me a living world.'

But rich as the whole of Sicily may be in classical associations, two places, Syracuse and
Girgenti, are pre-eminent for the power of bringing the Greek past forcibly before us. Their
interest is of two very different kinds. Girgenti still displays the splendour of temples placed
upon a rocky cornice between sea and olive-groves. Syracuse has nothing to show but the scene
of world-important actions. Yet the great deeds recorded by Thucydides, the conflict between
eastern and western Hellas which ended in the annihilation of the bright, brief, brilliant
reality of Athenian empire, remain so clearly written on the hills and harbours and marshlands
of Syracuse that no place in the world is topographically more memorable. The artist, whether
architect, or landscape-painter, or poet, finds full enjoyment at Girgenti. The historian must
be exacting indeed in his requirements if he is not satisfied with Syracuse.

What has become of Syracuse, 'the greatest of Greek cities and the fairest of all cities' even
in the days of Cicero? Scarcely one stone stands upon another of all those temples and houses.
The five towns which were included by the walls have now shrunk to the little island which
the first settlers named Ortygia, where the sacred fountain of Arethusa seemed to their home-loving
hearts to have followed them from Hellas.[1] Nothing survives but a few columns of Athene's
temple built into a Christian church, with here and there the marble masonry of a bath or the
Roman stonework of an amphitheatre. There are not even any mounds or deep deposits of rubble
mixed with pottery to show here once a town had been.[2] Etiam periere ruinæ. The vast city,
devastated for the last time by the Saracens in 878 A.D., has been reduced to dust and swept
by the scirocco into the sea. This is the explanation of its utter ruin. The stone of Syracuse
is friable and easily disintegrated. The petulant moist wind of the south-east corrodes its
surface; and when it falls, it crumbles to powder. Here, then, the elements have had their
will unchecked by such sculptured granite as in Egypt resists the mounded sand of the desert,
or by such marble colonnades as in Athens have calmly borne the insults of successive sieges.
What was hewn out of the solid rock--the semicircle of the theatre, the street of the tombs
with its deeply dented chariot-ruts, the gigantic quarries from which the material of the metropolis
was scooped, the catacombs which burrow for miles underground--alone prove how mighty must
have been the Syracuse of Dionysius. Truly 'the iniquity of oblivion blindly scattereth her
poppy, and deals with the memory of men without distinction to merit of perpetuity.' Standing
on the beach of the Great Harbour or the Bay of Thapsus, we may repeat almost word by word
Antipater's solemn lament over Corinth:--

  Where is thy splendour now, thy crown of towers,
    Thy beauty visible to all men's eyes,
    The gold and silver of thy treasuries,
  Thy temples of blest gods, thy woven bowers
  Where long-stoled ladies walked in tranquil hours,
    Thy multitudes like stars that crowd the skies?
    All, all are gone. Thy desolation lies
  Bare to the night. The elemental powers
  Resume their empire: on this lonely shore
    Thy deathless Nereids, daughters of the sea,
    Wailing 'mid broken stones unceasingly,
  Like halcyons when the restless south winds roar,
  Sing the sad story of thy woes of yore:
    These plunging waves are all that's left to thee.

Time, however, though he devours his children, cannot utterly destroy either the written record
of illustrious deeds or the theatre of their enactment. Therefore, with Thucydides in hand,
we may still follow the events of that Syracusan siege which decided the destinies of Greece,
and by the fall of Athens, raised Sparta, Macedonia, and finally Rome to the hegemony of the
civilised world.

    [1] The fountain of Arethusa, recently rescued from the
    washerwomen of Syracuse, is shut off from the Great
    Harbour by a wall and planted with papyrus. Taste has not
    been displayed in the bear-pit architecture of its
    circular enclosure.

    [2] This is not strictly true of Achradina, where some
    débris may still be found worth excavating.

There are few students of Thucydides and Grote who would not be surprised by the small scale
of the cliffs, and the gentle incline of Epipolæ--the rising ground above the town of Syracuse,
upon the slope of which the principal operations of the Athenian siege took place.[1] Maps,
and to some extent also the language of Thucydides, who talks of the [Greek: prosbaseis] or
practicable approaches to Epipolæ, and the [Greek: krêmnoi], or precipices by which it was
separated from the plain, would lead one to suppose that the whole region was on each hand
rocky and abrupt. In reality it is extremely difficult to distinguish the rising ground of
Epipolæ upon the southern side from the plain, so very gradual is the line of ascent and so
comparatively even is the rocky surface of the hill. Thucydides, in narrating the night attack
of Demosthenes upon the lines of Gylippus (book vii. 43-45), lays stress upon the necessity
of approaching Epipolæ from the western side by Euryâlus, and again asserts that during the
hurried retreat of the Athenians great numbers died by leaping from the cliffs, while still
more had to throw away their armour. At this time the Athenian army was encamped upon the shore
of the Great Harbour, and held trenches and a wall that stretched from that side at least halfway
across Epipolæ. It seems therefore strange that, unless their movements were impeded by counterworks
and lines of walls, of which we have no information, the troops of Demosthenes should not,
at least in their retreat, have been able to pour down over the gentle descent of Epipolæ toward
the Anapus, instead of returning to Euryâlus. Anyhow, we can scarcely discern cliffs of more
than ten feet upon the southern slope of Epipolæ, nor can we understand why the Athenians should
have been forced to take these in their line of retreat. There must have been some artificial
defences of which we read nothing, and of which no traces now remain, but which were sufficient
to prevent them from choosing their ground. Slight difficulties of this kind raise the question
whether the wonderful clearness of Thucydides in detail was really the result of personal observation,
or whether his graphic style enabled him to give the appearance of scrupulous accuracy. I incline
to think that the author of the sixth and seventh books of the History must have visited Syracuse,
and that if we could see his own map of Epipolæ, we should better be able to understand the
difficulties of the backward night march of Demosthenes, by discovering that there was some
imperative necessity for not descending, as seems natural, upon the open slope of the hill
to the south. The position of Euryâlus at the extreme point called Mongibellisi is clear enough.
Here the ground, which has been continually rising from the plateau of Achradina (the northern
suburb of Syracuse), comes to an abrupt finish. Between Mongibellisi and the Belvedere hill
beyond there is a deep depression, and the slope to Euryâlus either from the south or north
is gradual. It was a gross piece of neglect on the part of Nikias not to have fortified this
spot on his first investment of Epipolæ, instead of choosing Labdalum, which, wherever we may
place it, must have been lower down the hill to the east. For Euryâlus is the key to Epipolæ.
It was here that Nikias himself ascended in the first instance, and that afterwards he permitted
Gylippus to enter and raise the siege, and lastly that Demosthenes, by overpowering the insufficient
Syracusan guard, got at night within the lines of the Spartan general. Thus the three most
important movements of the siege were made upon Euryâlus. Dionysius, when he enclosed Epipolæ
with walls, recognised the value of the point, and fortified it with the castle which remains,
and to which, as Colonel Leake believes, Archimedes, at the order of Hiero II., made subsequent
additions. This castle is one of the most interesting Greek ruins extant. A little repair would
make it even now a substantial place of defence, according to Greek tactics. Its deep foss
is cut in the solid rock, and furnished with subterranean magazines for the storage of provisions.
The three piles of solid masonry on which the drawbridge rested, still stand in the centre
of this ditch. The oblique grand entrance to the foss descends by a flight of well-cut steps.
The rock itself over which the fort was raised is honeycombed with excavated passages for infantry
and cavalry, of different width and height, so that one sort can be assigned to mounted horsemen
and another to foot soldiers. The trap-doors which led from these galleries into the fortress
are provided with rests for ladders that could be let down to help a sallying force or drawn
up to impede an advancing enemy. The inner court for stabled horses and the stations for the
catapults are still in tolerable preservation. Thus the whole arrangement of the stronghold
can be traced not dimly but distinctly. Being placed on the left side of the chief gate of
Epipolæ, the occupants of the fort could issue to attack a foe advancing toward that gate in
the rear. At the same time the subterranean galleries enabled them to pour out upon the other
side, if the enemy had forced an entrance, while the minor passages and trap-doors provided
a retreat in case the garrison were overpowered in one of their offensive operations. The view
from Euryâlus is extensive. To the left rises Etna, snowy, solitary, broadly vast, above the
plain of Catania, the curving shore, Thapsus, and the sea. Syracuse itself, a thin white line
between the harbour and the open sea, a dazzling streak between two blues, terminates the slope
of Epipolæ, and on the right hand stretch the marshes of Anapus rich with vines and hoary with
olives.

    [1] Epipolæ is in shape a pretty regular isosceles
    triangle, of which the apex is Mongibellisi or Euryâlus,
    and the base Achradina or the northern quarter of the
    ancient city. Thucydides describes it as [Greek: chôrion
    apokrêmnou te kai hyper tês poleôs euthus
    keimenou ... exêrtêtai gar to allo chôrion kai mechri
    tês poleôs epiklines te esti kai epiphanes pan eisô' kai
    ônomasta hypo tôs Syrakosiôn dia to epipolês tou allou
    einai Epipolai] (vi. 96).

By far the most interesting localities of Syracuse are the Great Harbour and the stone quarries.
When the sluggish policy and faint heart of Nikias had brought the Athenians to the verge of
ruin, when Gylippus had entered the besieged city, and Plemmyrium had been wrested from the
invaders, and Demosthenes had failed in his attack upon Epipolæ, and the blockading trenches
had been finally evacuated, no hope remained for the armament of Athens except only in retreat
by water. They occupied a palisaded encampment upon the shore of the harbour, between the mouth
of the Anapus and the city; whence they attempted to force their way with their galleys to
the open sea. Hitherto the Athenians had been supreme upon their own element; but now the Syracusans
adopted tactics suited to the narrow basin in which the engagements had to take place. Building
their vessels with heavy beaks, they crushed the lighter craft of the Athenians, which had
no room for flank movements and rapid evolutions. A victory was thus obtained by the Syracusan
navy; the harbour was blockaded with chains by the order of Gylippus; the Athenians were driven
back to their palisades upon the fever-haunted shore. Their only chance seemed to depend upon
a renewal of the sea-fight in the harbour. The supreme moment arrived. What remained of the
Athenian fleet, in numbers still superior to that of their enemies, steered straight for the
mouth of the harbour. The Syracusans advanced from the naval stations of Ortygia to meet them.
The shore was thronged with spectators, Syracusans tremulous with the expectation of a decisive
success, Athenians on the tenter-hooks of hope and dread. In a short time the harbour became
a confused mass of clashing triremes; the water beaten into bloody surf by banks of oars; the
air filled with shouts from the combatants and exclamations from the lookers-on: [Greek: olophurmos,
boê, nikôntes, kratoumenoi, alla hosa en megalô kindunô mega stratopedon polyeidê anagkaizoito
phthengesthai.] Then after a struggle, in which desperation gave energy to the Athenians, and
ambitious hope inspired their foes with more than wonted vigour, the fleet of the Athenians
was finally overwhelmed. The whole scene can be reproduced with wonderful distinctness; for
the low shores of Plemmyrium, the city of Ortygia, the marsh of Lysimeleia, the hills above
the Anapus, and the distant dome of Etna, are the same as they were upon that memorable day.
Nothing has disappeared except the temple of Zeus Olympius and the buildings of Temenitis.

What followed upon the night of that defeat is less easily realised. Thucydides, however, by
one touch reveals the depth of despair to which the Athenians had sunk. They neglected to rescue
the bodies of their dead from the Great Harbour, or to ask for a truce, according to hallowed
Greek usage, in order that they might perform the funeral rites. To such an extent was the
army demoralised. Meanwhile within the city the Syracusans kept high festival, honouring their
patron Herakles, upon whose day it happened that the battle had been fought. Nikias neglected
this opportunity of breaking up his camp and retiring unmolested into the interior of the island.
When after the delay of two nights and a day he finally began to move, the Syracusans had blockaded
the roads. How his own division capitulated by the blood-stained banks of the Asinarus after
a six days' march of appalling misery, and how that of Demosthenes surrendered in the olive-field
of Polyzelus, is too well known.

One of the favourite excursions from modern Syracuse takes the traveller in a boat over the
sandy bar of the Anapus, beneath the old bridge which joined the Helorine road to the city,
and up the river to its junction with the Cyane. This is the ground traversed by the army first
in their attempted flight and then in their return as captives to Syracuse. Few, perhaps, who
visit the spot, think as much of that last act in a world-historical tragedy, as of the picturesque
compositions made by arundo donax, castor-oil plant, yellow flags, and papyrus, on the river-banks
and promontories. Like miniature palm-groves these water-weeds stand green and golden against
the bright blue sky, feathering above the boat which slowly pushes its way through clinging
reeds. The huge red oxen of Sicily in the marsh on either hand toss their spreading horns and
canter off knee-deep in ooze. Then comes the fountain of Cyane, a broad round well of water,
thirty feet in depth, but quite clear, so that you can see the pebbles at the bottom and fishes
swimming to and fro among the weeds. Papyrus plants edge the pool; thick and tufted, they are
exactly such as one sees carved or painted upon Egyptian architecture of the Ptolemaic period.

With Thucydides still in hand, before quitting Syracuse we must follow the Athenian captives
to their prison-grave. The Latomia de' Cappuccini is a place which it is impossible to describe
in words, and of which no photographs give any notion. Sunk to the depth of a hundred feet
below the level of the soil, with sides perpendicular and in many places as smooth as though
the chisel had just passed over them, these vast excavations produce the impression of some
huge subterranean gallery, widening here and there into spacious halls, the whole of which
has been unroofed and opened to the air of heaven. It is a solemn and romantic labyrinth, where
no wind blows rudely, and where orange-trees shoot upward luxuriantly to meet the light. The
wild fig bursts from the living rock, mixed with lentisk-shrubs and pendent caper-plants. Old
olives split the masses of fallen cliff with their tough, snakelike, slowly corded and compacted
roots. Thin flames of pomegranate-flowers gleam amid foliage of lustrous green; and lemons
drop unheeded from femininely fragile branches. There too the ivy hangs in long festoons, waving
like tapestry to the breath of stealthy breezes; while under foot is a tangle of acanthus,
thick curling leaves of glossiest green, surmounted by spikes of dull lilac blossoms. Wedges
and columns and sharp teeth of the native rock rear themselves here and there in the midst
of the open spaces to the sky, worn fantastically into notches and saws by the action of scirocco.
A light yellow calcined by the sun to white is the prevailing colour of the quarries. But in
shady places the limestone takes a curious pink tone of great beauty, like the interior of
some sea-shells. The reflected lights too, and half-shadows in their scooped-out chambers,
make a wonderful natural chiaroscuro. The whole scene is now more picturesque in a sublime
and grandiose style than forbidding. There is even one spot planted with magenta-coloured mesembrianthemums
of dazzling brightness; and the air is loaded with the drowsy perfume of lemon-blossoms. Yet
this is the scene of a great agony. This garden was once the Gethsemane of a nation, where
9000 free men of the proudest city of Greece were brought by an unexampled stroke of fortune
to slavery, shame, and a miserable end. Here they dwindled away, worn out by wounds, disease,
thirst, hunger, heat by day and cold by night, heart-sickness, and the insufferable stench
of putrefying corpses. The pupils of Socrates, the admirers of Euripides, the orators of the
Pnyx, the athletes of the Lyceum, lovers and comrades and philosophers, died here like dogs;
and the dames of Syracuse stood doubtless on those parapets above, and looked upon them like
wild beasts. What the Gorgo of Theocritus might have said to her friend Praxinoe on the occasion
would be the subject for an idyll à la Browning! How often, pining in those great glaring pits,
which were not then curtained with ivy or canopied by olive-trees, must the Athenians have
thought with vain remorse of their own Rhamnusian Nemesis, the goddess who held scales adverse
to the hopes of men, and bore the legend 'Be not lifted up'! How often must they have watched
the dawn walk forth fire-footed upon the edge of those bare crags, or the stars slide from
east to west across the narrow space of sky! How they must have envied the unfettered clouds
sailing in liquid ether, or traced the far flight of hawk and swallow, sighing, 'Oh that I
too had the wings of a bird!' The weary eyes turned upwards found no change or respite, save
what the frost of night brought to the fire of day, and the burning sun to the pitiless cold
constellations.

A great painter, combining Doré's power over space and distance with the distinctness of Flaxman's
design and the colouring of Alma Tadema, might possibly realise this agony of the Athenian
captives in the stone quarries. The time of day chosen for the picture should be full noon,
with its glare of light and sharply defined vertical shadows. The crannies in the straight
sides of the quarry should here and there be tufted with a few dusty creepers and wild fig-trees.
On the edge of the sky-line stand parties of Syracusan citizens with their wives and children,
shaded by umbrellas, richly dressed, laughing and triumphing over the misery beneath. In the
full foreground there are placed two figures. A young Athenian has just died of fever. His
body lies stretched along the ground, the head resting on a stone, and the face turned to the
sky. Beside him kneels an older warrior, sunburned and dry with thirst, but full as yet of
vigour. He stares with wide despair-smitten eyes straight out, as though he had lately been
stretched upon the corpse, but had risen at the sound of movement, or some supposed word of
friends close by. His bread lies untasted near him, and the half-pint of water--his day's portion--has
been given to bathe the forehead of his dying friend. They have stood together through the
festival of leave-taking from Peiræus, through the battles of Epipolæ, through the retreat
and the slaughter at the passage of the Asinarus. But now it has come to this, and death has
found the younger. Perhaps the friend beside him remembers some cool wrestling-ground in far-off
Athens, or some procession up the steps of the Acropolis, where first they met. Anyhow his
fixed gaze now shows that he has passed in thought at least beyond the hell around him. Not
far behind should be ranged groups of haggard men, with tattered clothes and dulled or tigerish
eyes, some dignified, some broken down by grief; while here and there newly fallen corpses,
and in one hideous corner a great heap of abandoned dead, should point the ghastly words of
Thucydides: [Greek: tôn nekrôn homou ep angêlois zunnenêmenôn.]

Every landscape has some moment of its own at which it should be seen for the first time. Mediæval
cities, with their narrow streets and solemn spires, demand the twilight of a summer night.
Mediterranean islands show their best in the haze of afternoon, when sea and sky and headland
are bathed in aërial blue, and the mountains seem to be made of transparent amethyst. The first
sight of the Alps should be taken at sunset from some point of vantage, like the terrace at
Berne, or the castle walls of Salzburg. If these fortunate moments be secured, all after knowledge
of locality and detail serves to fortify and deepen the impression of picturesque harmony.
The mind has then conceived a leading thought, which gives ideal unity to scattered memories
and invests the crude reality with an æsthetic beauty. The lucky moment for the landscape of
Girgenti is half an hour past sunset in a golden afterglow. Landing at the port named after
Empedocles, having caught from the sea some glimpses of temple-fronts emergent on green hill-slopes
among almond-trees, with Pindar's epithet of 'splendour-loving' in my mind, I rode on such
an evening up the path which leads across the Drago to Girgenti. The way winds through deep-sunk
lanes of rich amber sandstone, hedged with cactus and dwarf-palm, and set with old gnarled
olive-trees. As the sunlight faded, Venus shone forth in a luminous sky, and the deep yellows
and purples overhead seemed to mingle with the heavy scent of orange-flowers from scarcely
visible groves by the roadside. Saffron in the west and violet in the east met midway, composing
a translucent atmosphere of mellow radiance, like some liquid gem--dolce color d' oriental
berillo. Girgenti, far off and far up, gazing seaward, and rearing her topaz-coloured bastions
into that gorgeous twilight, shone like the aërial vision of cities seen in dreams or imaged
in the clouds. Hard and sharp against the sallow line of sunset, leaned grotesque shapes of
cactuses like hydras, and delicate silhouettes of young olive-trees like sylphs: the river
ran silver in the hollow, and the mountain-side on which the town is piled was solid gold.
Then came the dirty dull interior of Girgenti, misnamed the magnificent. But no disenchantment
could destroy the memory of that vision, and Pindar's [Greek: philaglaos Akragas] remains in
my mind a reality.[1]

    [1] Lest I should seem to have overstated the splendour of
    this sunset view, I must remark that the bare dry
    landscape of the south is peculiarly fortunate in such
    effects. The local tint of the Girgenti rock is yellow.
    The vegetation on the hillside is sparse. There is nothing
    to prevent the colours of the sky being reflected upon the
    vast amber-tinted surface, which then glows with
    indescribable glory.

The temples of Girgenti are at the distance of two miles from the modern town. Placed upon
the edge of an irregular plateau which breaks off abruptly into cliffs of moderate height below
them, they stand in a magnificent row between the sea and plain on one side, and the city and
the hills upon the other. Their colour is that of dusky honey or dun amber; for they are not
built of marble, but of sandstone, which at some not very distant geological period must have
been a sea-bed. Oyster and scallop shells are embedded in the roughly hewn masonry, while here
and there patches of a red deposit, apparently of broken coralline, make the surface crimson.
The vegetation against which the ruined colonnades are relieved consists almost wholly of almond
and olive trees, the bright green foliage of the one mingling with the greys of the other,
and both enhancing the warm tints of the stone. This contrast of colours is very agreeable
to the eye; yet when the temples were perfect it did not exist. There is no doubt that their
surface was coated with a fine stucco, wrought to smoothness, toned like marble, and painted
over with the blue and red and green decorations proper to the Doric style. This fact is a
practical answer to those æsthetic critics who would fain establish that the Greeks practised
no deception in their arts. The whole effect of the colonnades of Selinus and Girgenti must
have been an illusion, and their surface must have needed no less constant reparation than
the exterior of a Gothic cathedral. The sham jewellery frequently found in Greek tombs, and
the curious mixture of marble with sandstone in the sculptures from Selinus, are other instances
that Greeks no less than modern artists condescended to trickery for the sake of effect. In
the series of the metopes from Selinus now preserved in the museum at Palermo, the flesh of
the female persons is represented by white marble, while that of the men, together with the
dresses and other accessories, is wrought of common stone. Yet the basreliefs in which this
peculiarity occurs belong to the best period of Greek sculpture, and the groups are not unworthy
for spirit and design to be placed by the side of the metopes of the Parthenon. Most beautiful,
for example, is the contrast between the young unarmed Hercules and the Amazon he overpowers.
His naked man's foot grasps with the muscular energy of an athlete her soft and helpless woman's
foot, the roughness of the sandstone and the smoothness of the marble really heightening the
effect of difference.

Though ranged in a row along the same cornice, the temples of Girgenti, originally at least
six in number, were not so disposed that any of their architectural lines should be exactly
parallel. The Greeks disliked formality; the carefully calculated asymmetreia in the disposition
of their groups of buildings secured variety of effect as well as a broken surface for the
display of light and shadow. This is very noticeable on the Acropolis of Athens, where, however
regular may be the several buildings, all are placed at different angles to each other and
the hill. Only two of the Girgenti temples survive in any degree of perfection--the so-called
Concordia and the Juno Lacinia. The rest are but mere heaps of mighty ruins, with here and
there a broken column, and in one place an angle of a pediment raised upon a group of pillars.
The foundations of masonry which supported them and the drums of their gigantic columns are
tufted with wild palm, aloe, asphodel, and crimson snapdragon. Yellow blossoming sage, and
mint, and lavender, and mignonette, sprout in the crevices where snakes and lizards harbour.
The grass around is gemmed with blue pimpernel and convolvulus. Gladiolus springs amid the
young corn-blades beneath the almond-trees; while a beautiful little iris makes the most unpromising
dry places brilliant with its delicate greys and blues. In cooler and damper hollows, around
the boles of old olives and under ruined arches, flourishes the tender acanthus, and the road-sides
are gaudy with a yellow daisy flower, which may perchance be the [Greek: elichrysos] of Theocritus.
Thus the whole scene is a wilderness of brightness, less radiant but more touching than when
processions of men and maidens bearing urns and laurel-branches, crowned with ivy or with myrtle,
paced along those sandstone roads, chanting pæans and prosodial hymns, toward the glistening
porches and hypæthral cells.

The only temple about the name of which there can be no doubt is that of Zeus Olympius. A prostrate
giant who once with nineteen of his fellows helped to support the roof of this enormous fane,
and who now lies in pieces among the asphodels, remains to prove that this was the building
begun by the Agrigentines after the defeat of the Phoenicians at the Himera, when slaves were
many and spoil was abundant, and Hellas both in Sicily and on the mainland felt a more than
usual thrill of gratitude to their ancestral deity. The greatest architectural works of the
island, the temples of Segeste and Selinus, as well as those of Girgenti, were begun between
this period and the Carthaginian invasion of 409 B.C. The victory of the Hellenes over the
barbarians in 480 B.C., symbolised in the victory of Zeus over the enslaved Titans of this
temple, gave a vast impulse to their activity and wealth. After the disastrous incursion of
the same foes seventy years later, the western Greek towns of the island received a check from
which they never recovered. Many of their noblest buildings remained unfinished. The question
which rises to the lips of all who contemplate the ruins of this gigantic temple and its compeer
dedicated to Herakles is this: Who wrought the destruction of works so solid and enduring?
For what purpose of spite or interest were those vast columns--in the very flutings of which
a man can stand with ease--felled like forest pines? One sees the mighty pillars lying as they
sank, like swathes beneath the mower's scythe. Their basements are still in line. The drums
which composed them have fallen asunder, but maintain their original relation to each other
on the ground. Was it earthquake or the hand of man that brought them low? Poggio Bracciolini
tells us that in the fifteenth century they were burning the marble buildings of the Roman
Campagna for lime. We know that the Senator Brancaleone made havoc among the classic monuments
occupied as fortresses by Frangipani and Savelli and Orsini. We understand how the Farnesi
should have quarried the Coliseum for their palace. But here, at the distance of three miles
from Girgenti, in a comparative desert, what army, or what band of ruffians, or what palace-builders
could have found it worth their while to devastate mere mountains of sculptured sandstone?
The Romans invariably respected Greek temples. The early Christians used them for churches:--and
this accounts for the comparative perfection of the Concordia. It was in the age of the Renaissance
that the ruin of Girgenti's noblest monuments occurred. The temple of Zeus Olympius was shattered
in the fifteenth century, and in the next its fragments were used to build a breakwater. The
demolition of such substantial edifices is as great a wonder as their construction. We marvel
at the energy which must have been employed on their overthrow, no less than at the art which
raised such blocks of stone and placed them in position.

While so much remains both at Syracuse and at Girgenti to recall the past, we are forced here,
as at Athens, to feel how very little we really know about Greek life. We cannot bring it up
before our fancy with any clearness, but rather in a sort of hazy dream, from which some luminous
points emerge. The entrance of an Olympian victor through the breach in the city walls of Girgenti,
the procession of citizens conducting old Timoleon in his chariot to the theatre, the conferences
of the younger Dionysius with Plato in his guarded palace-fort, the stately figure of Empedocles
presiding over incantations in the marshes of Selinus, the austerity of Dion and his mystic
dream, the first appearance of stubborn Gylippus with long Lacedæmonian hair in the theatre
of Syracuse,--such picturesque pieces of history we may fairly well recapture. But what were
the daily occupations of the Simætha of Theocritus? What was the state dress of the splendid
Queen Philistis, whose name may yet be read upon her seat, and whose face adorns the coins
of Syracuse? How did the great altar of Zeus look, when the oxen were being slaughtered there
by hundreds, in a place which must have been shambles and meat-market and temple all in one?
What scene of architectural splendour met the eyes of the swimmers in the Piscina of Girgenti?
How were the long hours of so many days of leisure occupied by the Greeks, who had each three
pillows to his head in 'splendour-loving Acragas'? Of what sort was the hospitality of Gellias?
Questions like these rise up to tantalise us with the hopelessness of ever truly recovering
the life of a lost race. After all the labour of antiquary and the poet, nothing remains to
be uttered but such moralisings as Sir Thomas Browne poured forth over the urns discovered
at Old Walsingham: 'What time the persons of these ossuaries entered the famous nations of
the dead, and slept with princes and counsellors, might admit a wide solution. Yet while the
cadence of this august rhetoric is yet in our ears, another voice is heard as of the angel
seated by a void and open tomb, 'Why seek ye the living among the dead?' The spirit of Hellas
is indestructible, however much the material existence of the Greeks be lost beyond recovery;
for the life of humanity is not many but one, not parcelled into separate moments but continuous.

ATHENS

Athens, by virtue of scenery and situation, was predestined to be the motherland of the free
reason of mankind, long before the Athenians had won by their great deeds the right to name
their city the ornament and the eye of Hellas. Nothing is more obvious to one who has seen
many lands and tried to distinguish their essential characters, than the fact that no one country
exactly resembles another, but that, however similar in climate and locality, each presents
a peculiar and well-marked property belonging to itself alone. The specific quality of Athenian
landscape is light--not richness or sublimity or romantic loveliness or grandeur of mountain
outline, but luminous beauty, serene exposure to the airs of heaven. The harmony and balance
of the scenery, so varied in its details and yet so comprehensible, are sympathetic to the
temperance of Greek morality, the moderation of Greek art. The radiance with which it is illuminated
has all the clearness and distinction of the Attic intellect. From whatever point the plain
of Athens with its semicircle of greater and lesser hills may be surveyed, it always presents
a picture of dignified and lustrous beauty. The Acropolis is the centre of this landscape,
splendid as a work of art with its crown of temples; and the sea, surmounted by the long low
hills of the Morea, is the boundary to which the eye is irresistibly led. Mountains and islands
and plain alike are made of limestone, hardening here and there into marble, broken into delicate
and varied forms, and sprinkled with a vegetation of low shrubs and brushwood so sparse and
slight that the naked rock in every direction meets the light. This rock is grey and colourless:
viewed in the twilight of a misty day, it shows the dull, tame uniformity of bone. Without
the sun it is asleep and sorrowful. But by reason of this very deadness, the limestone of Athenian
landscape is always ready to take the colours of the air and sun. In noonday it smiles with
silvery lustre, fold upon fold of the indented hills and islands melting from the brightness
of the sea into the untempered brilliance of the sky. At dawn and sunset the same rocks array
themselves with a celestial robe of rainbow-woven hues: islands, sea, and mountains, far and
near, burn with saffron, violet, and rose, with the tints of beryl and topaz, sapphire and
almandine and amethyst, each in due order and at proper distances. The fabled dolphin in its
death could not have showed a more brilliant succession of splendours waning into splendours
through the whole chord of prismatic colours. This sensitiveness of the Attic limestone to
every modification of the sky's light gives a peculiar spirituality to the landscape. The hills
remain in form and outline unchanged; but the beauty breathed upon them lives or dies with
the emotions of the air from whence it emanates: the spirit of light abides with them and quits
them by alternations that seem to be the pulses of an ethereally communicated life. No country,
therefore, could be better fitted for the home of a race gifted with exquisite sensibilities,
in whom humanity should first attain the freedom of self-consciousness in art and thought.
[Greek: Aei dia lamprotatou bainontes habrôs aitheros]--ever delicately moving through most
translucent air--said Euripides of the Athenians: and truly the bright air of Attica was made
to be breathed by men in whom the light of culture should begin to shine. [Greek: Iostephanos]
is an epithet of Aristophanes for his city; and if not crowned with other violets, Athens wears
for her garland the air-empurpled hills--Hymettus, Lycabettus, Pentelicus, and Parnes.[1] Consequently,
while still the Greeks of Homer's age were Achaians, while Argos was the titular seat of Hellenic
empire, and the mythic deeds of the heroes were being enacted in Thebes or Mycenæ, Athens did
but bide her time, waiting to manifest herself as the true godchild of Pallas, who sprang perfect
from the brain of Zeus, Pallas, who is the light of cloudless heaven emerging after storms.
And Pallas, when she planted her chosen people in Attica, knew well what she was doing. To
the far-seeing eyes of the goddess, although the first-fruits of song and science and philosophy
might be reaped upon the shores of the Ægean and the islands, yet the days were clearly descried
when Athens should stretch forth her hand to hold the lamp of all her founder loved for Europe.
As the priest of Egypt told Solon: 'She chose the spot of earth in which you were born, because
she saw that the happy temperament of the seasons in that land would produce the wisest of
men. Wherefore the goddess, who was a lover both of war and wisdom, selected and first of all
settled that spot which was the most likely to produce men likest herself.' This sentence from
the 'Timæus' of Plato[2] reveals the consciousness possessed by the Greeks of that intimate
connection which subsists between a country and the temper of its race. To us the name Athenai--the
fact that Athens by its title even in the prehistoric age was marked out as the appanage of
her who was the patroness of culture--seems a fortunate accident, an undesigned coincidence
of the most striking sort. To the Greeks, steeped in mythologic faith, accustomed to regard
their lineage as autochthonous and their polity as the fabric of a god, nothing seemed more
natural than that Pallas should have selected for her own exactly that portion of Hellas where
the arts and sciences might flourish best. Let the Boeotians grow fat and stagnant upon their
rich marshlands: let the Spartans form themselves into a race of soldiers in their mountain
fortress: let Corinth reign, the queen of commerce, between her double seas: let the Arcadians
in their oak woods worship pastoral Pan: let the plains of Elis be the meeting-place of Hellenes
at their sacred games: let Delphi boast the seat of sooth oracular from Phoebus. Meanwhile
the sunny but barren hills of Attica, open to the magic of the sky, and beautiful by reason
of their nakedness, must be the home of a people powerful by might of intelligence rather than
strength of limb, wealthy not so much by natural resources as by enterprise. Here, and here
only, could stand the city sung by Milton:--

  Built nobly, pure the air, and light the soil,
  Athens, the eye of Greece, mother of arts
  And eloquence, native to famous wits
  Or hospitable, in her sweet recess,
  City or suburban, studious walks and shades.

We who believe in no authentic Pallas, child of Zeus, may yet pause awhile, when we contemplate
Athens, to ponder whether those old mythologic systems, which ascribed to godhead the foundation
of states and the patronage of peoples, had not some glimpse of truth beyond a mere blind guess.
Is not, in fact, this Athenian land the promised and predestined home of a peculiar people,
in the same sense as that in which Palestine was the heritage by faith of a tribe set apart
by Jehovah for His own?

    [1] This interpretation of the epithet [Greek:
    iostephanos] is not, I think, merely fanciful. It seems to
    occur naturally to those who visit Athens with the
    language of Greek poets in their memory. I was glad to
    find, on reading a paper by the Dean of Westminster on the
    topography of Greece, that the same thought had struck
    him. Ovid, too, gives the adjective purpureus to
    Hymettus.

    [2] Jowett's translation, vol. ii. p. 520.

Unlike Rome, Athens leaves upon the memory one simple and ineffaceable impression. There is
here no conflict between Paganism and Christianity, no statues of Hellas baptised by popes
into the company of saints, no blending of the classical and mediæval and Renaissance influences
in a bewilderment of vast antiquity. Rome, true to her historical vocation, embraces in her
ruins all ages, all creeds, all nations. Her life has never stood still, but has submitted
to many transformations, of which the traces are still visible. Athens, like the Greeks of
history, is isolated in a sort of self-completion: she is a thing of the past, which still
exists, because the spirit never dies, because beauty is a joy for ever. What is truly remarkable
about the city is just this, that while the modern town is an insignificant mushroom of the
present century, the monuments of Greek art in the best period--the masterpieces of Ictinus
and Mnesicles, and the theatre on which the plays of the tragedians were produced--survive
in comparative perfection, and are so far unencumbered with subsequent edifices that the actual
Athens of Pericles absorbs our attention. There is nothing of any consequence intermediate
between us and the fourth century B.C. Seen from a distance the Acropolis presents nearly the
same appearance as it offered to Spartan guardsmen when they paced the ramparts of Deceleia.
Nature around is all unaltered. Except that more villages, enclosed with olive-groves and vineyards,
were sprinkled over those bare hills in classic days, no essential change in the landscape
has taken place, no transformation, for example, of equal magnitude with that which converted
the Campagna of Rome from a plain of cities to a poisonous solitude. All through the centuries
which divide us from the age of Hadrian--centuries unfilled, as far as Athens is concerned,
with memorable deeds or national activity--the Acropolis has stood uncovered to the sun. The
tones of the marble of Pentelicus have daily grown more golden; decay has here and there invaded
frieze and capital; war too has done its work, shattering the Parthenon in 1687 by the explosion
of a powder magazine, and the Propylæa in 1656 by a similar accident, and seaming the colonnades
that still remain with cannon-balls in 1827. Yet in spite of time and violence the Acropolis
survives, a miracle of beauty: like an everlasting flower, through all that lapse of years
it has spread its coronal of marbles to the air, unheeded. And now, more than ever, its temples
seem to be incorporate with the rock they crown. The slabs of column and basement have grown
together by long pressure or molecular adhesion into a coherent whole. Nor have weeds or creeping
ivy invaded the glittering fragments that strew the sacred hill. The sun's kiss alone has caused
a change from white to amber-hued or russet. Meanwhile, the exquisite adaptation of Greek building
to Greek landscape has been enhanced rather than impaired by that 'unimaginable touch of time,'
which has broken the regularity of outline, softened the chisel-work of the sculptor, and confounded
the painter's fretwork in one tint of glowing gold. The Parthenon, the Erechtheum, and the
Propylæa have become one with the hill on which they cluster, as needful to the scenery around
them as the everlasting mountains, as sympathetic as the rest of nature to the successions
of morning and evening, which waken them to passionate life by the magic touch of colour.

Thus there is no intrusive element in Athens to distract the mind from memories of its most
glorious past. Walk into the theatre of Dionysus. The sculptures that support the stage--Sileni
bending beneath the weight of cornices, and lines of graceful youths and maidens--are still
in their ancient station.[1] The pavement of the orchestra, once trodden by Athenian choruses,
presents its tessellated marbles to our feet; and we may choose the seat of priest or archon
or herald or thesmothetes, when we wish to summon before our mind's eye the pomp of the 'Agamemnon'
or the dances of the 'Birds' and 'Clouds.' Each seat still bears some carven name--[Greek:
IEREÔS TÔN MOUSÔN] or [Greek: IEREÔS ASKAÊPIOU]--and that of the priest of Dionysus is beautifully
wrought with Bacchic basreliefs. One of them, inscribed [Greek: IEREÔS ANTINOOU], proves indeed
that the extant chairs were placed here in the age of Hadrian, who completed the vast temple
of Zeus Olympius, and filled its precincts with statues of his favourite, and named a new Athens
after his own name.[2] Yet we need not doubt that their position round the orchestra is traditional,
and that even in their form they do not differ from those which the priests and officers of
Athens used from the time of Æschylus downward. Probably a slave brought cushion and footstool
to complete the comfort of these stately armchairs. Nothing else is wanted to render them fit
now for their august occupants; and we may imagine the long-stoled greybearded men throned
in state, each with his wand and with appropriate fillets on his head. As we rest here in the
light of the full moon, which simplifies all outlines and heals with tender touch the wounds
of ages, it is easy enough to dream ourselves into the belief that the ghosts of dead actors
may once more glide across the stage. Fiery-hearted Medea, statuesque Antigone, Prometheus
silent beneath the hammer-strokes of Force and Strength, Orestes hounded by his mother's Furies,
Cassandra aghast before the palace of Mycenæ, pure-souled Hippolytus, ruthful Alcestis, the
divine youth of Helen, and Clytemnestra in her queenliness, emerge like faint grey films against
the bluish background of Hymettus. The night air seems vocal with echoes of old Greek, more
felt than heard, like voices wafted to our sense in sleep, the sound whereof we do not seize,
though the burden lingers in our memory.

    [1] It is true, however, that these sculptures belong to a
    comparatively late period, and that the theatre underwent
    some alterations in Roman days, so that the stage is now
    probably a few yards farther from the seats than in the
    time of Sophocles.

    [2] It is not a little surprising to come upon this relic
    of the worship of the young Bithynian at Athens in the
    theatre still consecrated by the memories of Æschylus and
    Sophocles.

In like manner, when moonlight, falling aslant upon the Propylæa, restores the marble masonry
to its original whiteness, and the shattered heaps of ruined colonnades are veiled in shadow,
and every form seems larger, grander, and more perfect than by day, it is well to sit upon
the lowest steps, and looking upwards, to remember what processions passed along this way bearing
the sacred peplus to Athene. The Panathenaic pomp, which Pheidias and his pupils carved upon
the friezes of the Parthenon, took place once in five years, on one of the last days of July.[1]
All the citizens joined in the honour paid to their patroness. Old men bearing olive-branches,
young men clothed in bronze, chapleted youths singing the praise of Pallas in prosodial hymns,
maidens carrying holy vessels, aliens bending beneath the weight of urns, servants of the temple
leading oxen crowned with fillets, troops of horsemen reining in impetuous steeds: all these
pass before us in the frieze of Pheidias. But to our imagination must be left what he has refrained
from sculpturing, the chariot formed like a ship, in which the most illustrious nobles of Athens
sat, splendidly arrayed, beneath the crocus-coloured curtain or peplus outspread upon a mast.
Some concealed machinery caused this car to move; but whether it passed through the Propylæa,
and entered the Acropolis, admits of doubt. It is, however, certain that the procession which
ascended those steep slabs, and before whom the vast gates of the Propylæa swang open with
the clangour of resounding bronze, included not only the citizens of Athens and their attendant
aliens, but also troops of cavalry and chariots; for the mark of chariot-wheels can still be
traced upon the rock. The ascent is so abrupt that this multitude moved but slowly. Splendid
indeed, beyond any pomp of modern ceremonial, must have been the spectacle of the well-ordered
procession, advancing through those giant colonnades to the sound of flutes and solemn chants--the
shrill clear voices of boys in antiphonal chorus rising above the confused murmurs of such
a crowd, the chafing of horses' hoofs upon the stone, and the lowing of bewildered oxen.

    [1] My purpose being merely picturesque, I have ignored
    the grave antiquarian difficulties which beset the
    interpretation of this frieze.

To realise by fancy the many-coloured radiance of the temples, and the rich dresses of the
votaries illuminated by that sharp light of a Greek sun, which defines outline and shadow and
gives value to the faintest hue, would be impossible. All we can know for positive about the
chromatic decoration of the Greeks is, that whiteness artificially subdued to the tone of ivory
prevailed throughout the stonework of the buildings, while blue and red and green in distinct,
yet interwoven patterns, added richness to the fretwork and the sculpture of pediment and frieze.
The sacramental robes of the worshippers accorded doubtless with this harmony, wherein colour
was subordinate to light, and light was toned to softness.

Musing thus upon the staircase of the Propylæa, we may say with truth that all our modern art
is but child's play to that of the Greeks. Very soul-subduing is the gloom of a cathedral like
the Milanese Duomo, when the incense rises in blue clouds athwart the bands of sunlight falling
from the dome, and the crying of choirs upborne upon the wings of organ music fills the whole
vast space with a mystery of melody. Yet such ceremonial pomps as this are as dreams and the
shapes of visions, when compared with the clearly defined splendours of a Greek procession
through marble peristyles in open air beneath the sun and sky. That spectacle combined the
harmonies of perfect human forms in movement with the divine shapes of statues, the radiance
of carefully selected vestments with hues inwrought upon pure marble. The rhythms and the melodies
of the Doric mood were sympathetic to the proportions of the Doric colonnades. The grove of
pillars through which the pageant passed grew from the living rock into shapes of beauty, fulfilling
by the inbreathed spirit of man Nature's blind yearning after absolute completion. The sun
himself--not thwarted by artificial gloom, or tricked with alien colours of stained glass--was
made to minister in all his strength to a pomp, the pride of which was the display of form
in manifold magnificence. The ritual of the Greeks was the ritual of a race at one with Nature,
glorying in its affiliation to the mighty mother of all life, and striving to add by human
art the coping-stone and final touch to her achievement. The ritual of the Catholic Church
is the ritual of a race shut out from Nature, holding no communion with the powers of earth
and air, but turning the spirit inwards and aiming at the concentration of the whole soul upon
an unseen God. The temple of the Greeks was the house of a present deity; its cell his chamber;
its statue his reality. The Christian cathedral is the fane where God who is a spirit is worshipped;
no statue fills the choir from wall to wall and lifts its forehead to the roof; but the vacant
aisles, with their convergent arches soaring upwards to the dome, are made to suggest the brooding
of infinite and omnipresent Godhead. It was the object of the Greek artist to preserve a just
proportion between the god's statue and his house, in order that the worshipper might approach
him as a subject draws near to his monarch's throne. The Christian architect seeks to affect
the emotions of the votary with a sense of vastness filled with unseen power. Our cathedrals
are symbols of the universe where God is everywhere pavilioned and invisible. The Greek temple
was a practical, utilitarian dwelling-house, made beautiful enough to suit divinity. The modern
church is an idea expressed in stone, an aspiration of the spirit, shooting up from arch and
pinnacle and spire into illimitable fields of air.

It follows from these differences between the religious aims of Pagan and Christian architecture,
that the former was far more favourable to the plastic arts. No beautiful or simple incident
of human life was an inappropriate subject for the sculptor, in adorning the houses of gods
who were themselves but human on a higher level; and the ritual whereby the gods were honoured
was merely an exhibition, in its strength and joyfulness, of mortal beauty. Therefore the Panathenaic
procession furnished Pheidias with a series of sculptural motives, which he had only to express
according to the principles of his art. The frieze, three feet and four inches in height, raised
forty feet above the pavement of the peristyle, ran for five hundred and twenty-four continuous
feet round the outside wall of the cella of the Parthenon. The whole of this long line was
wrought with carving of exquisite delicacy and supreme vigour, in such low relief as its peculiar
position, far above the heads of the spectators, and only illuminated by light reflected from
below, required. Each figure, each attitude, and each fold of drapery in its countless groups
is a study; yet the whole was a transcript from actual contemporary Athenian life. Truly in
matters of art we are but infants to the Greeks.

The topographical certainty which invests the ruins of the Acropolis with such peculiar interest,
belongs in a less degree to the whole of Athens. Although the most recent researches have thrown
fresh doubt upon the exact site of the Pnyx, and though no traces of the agora remain, yet
we may be sure that the Bema from which Pericles sustained the courage of the Athenians during
the Peloponnesian war, was placed upon the northern slope looking towards the Propylæa, while
the wide irregular space between this hill, the Acropolis, the Areopagus, and the Theseum,
must have formed the meeting-ground for amusement and discussion of the citizens at leisure.
About Areopagus, with its tribunal hollowed in the native rock, and the deep cleft beneath,
where the shrine of the Eumenides was built, there is no question. The extreme insignificance
of this little mound may at first indeed excite incredulity and wonder; but a few hours in
Athens accustom the traveller to a smallness of scale which at first sight seemed ridiculous.
Colonus, for example, the Colonus which every student of Sophocles has pictured to himself
in the solitude of unshorn meadows, where groves of cypresses and olives bent unpruned above
wild tangles of narcissus flowers and crocuses, and where the nightingale sang undisturbed
by city noise or labour of the husbandman, turns out to be a scarcely appreciable mound, gently
swelling from the cultivated land of the Cephissus. The Cephissus even in a rainy season may
be crossed dryshod by an active jumper; and the Ilissus, where it flows beneath the walls of
the Olympieion, is now dedicated to washerwomen instead of water-nymphs. Nature herself remains,
on the whole, unaltered. Most notable are still the white poplars dedicated of old to Herakles,
and the spreading planes which whisper to the limes in spring. In the midst of so arid and
bare a landscape, these umbrageous trees are singularly grateful to the eye and to the sense
oppressed with heat and splendour. Nightingales have not ceased to crowd the gardens in such
numbers as to justify the tradition of their Attic origin, nor have the bees of Hymettus forgotten
their labours: the honey of Athens can still boast a quality superior to that of Hybla or any
other famous haunt of hives.

Tradition points out one spot which commands a beautiful distant view of Athens and the hills,
as the garden of the Academy. The place is not unworthy of Plato and his companions. Very old
olives grow in abundance, to remind us of those sacred trees beneath which the boys of Aristophanes
ran races; and reeds with which they might crown their foreheads are thickly scattered through
the grass. Abeles interlace their murmuring branches overhead, and the planes are as leafy
as that which invited Socrates and Phædrus on the morning when they talked of love. In such
a place we comprehend how philosophy went hand in hand at Athens with gymnastics, and why the
poplar and the plane were dedicated to athletic gods. For the wrestling-grounds were built
in groves like these, and their cool peristyles, the meeting-places of young men and boys,
supplied the sages not only with an eager audience, but also with the leisure and the shade
that learning loves.

It was very characteristic of Greek life that speculative philosophy should not have chosen
'to walk the studious cloister pale,' but should rather have sought out places where 'the busy
hum of men' was loudest, and where youthful voices echoed. The Athenian transacted no business,
and pursued but few pleasures, under a private roof. He conversed and bargained in the agora,
debated on the open rocks of the Pnyx, and enjoyed discussion in the courts of the gymnasium.
It is also far from difficult to understand beneath this over-vaulted and grateful gloom of
bee-laden branches, what part love played in the haunts of runners and of wrestlers, why near
the statue of Hermes stood that of Erôs, and wherefore Socrates surnamed his philosophy the
Science of Love. [Greek: Philosophoumen aneu malakias] is the boast of Pericles in his description
of the Athenian spirit. [Greek: Philosophia meta paiderastias] is Plato's formula for the virtues
of the most distinguished soul. These two mottoes, apparently so contradictory, found their
point of meeting and their harmony in the gymnasium.

The mere contemplation of these luxuriant groves, set in the luminous Attic landscape, and
within sight of Athens, explains a hundred passages of poets and philosophers. Turn to the
opening scenes of the 'Lysis' and the 'Charmides.' The action of the latter dialogue is laid
in the palæstra of Taureas. Socrates has just returned from the camp at Potidæa, and after
answering the questions of his friends, has begun to satisfy his own curiosity:[1]--

When there had been enough of this, I, in my turn, began to make inquiries about matters at
home--about the present state of philosophy, and about the youth. I asked whether any of them
were remarkable for beauty or sense--or both. Critias, glancing at the door, invited my attention
to some youths who were coming in, and talking noisily to one another, followed by a crowd.
'Of the beauties, Socrates,' he said, 'I fancy that you will soon be able to form a judgment.
For those who are just entering are the advanced guard of the great beauty of the day--and
he is likely not to be far off himself.'

  'Who is he?' I said; 'and who is his father?'

  'Charmides,' he replied, 'is his name; he is my cousin, and
  the son of my uncle Glaucon: I rather think that you know him,
  although he was not grown up at the time of your departure.'

  'Certainly I know him,' I said; 'for he was remarkable even
  then when he was still a child, and now I should imagine that he
  must be almost a young man.'

  'You will see,' he said, 'in a moment what progress he has
  made, and what he is like.' He had scarcely said the word, when
  Charmides entered.

  Now you know, my friend, that I cannot measure anything, and
  of the beautiful, I am simply such a measure as a white line is of
  chalk; for almost all young persons are alike beautiful in my eyes.
  But at that moment, when I saw him coming in, I must admit
  that I was quite astonished at his beauty and stature; all the world
  seemed to be enamoured of him; amazement and confusion reigned
  when he entered; and a troop of lovers followed him. That grown-up
  men like ourselves should have been affected in this way was
  not surprising, but I observed that there was the same feeling
  among the boys; all of them, down to the very least child, turned
  and looked at him as if he had been a statue.

  Chaerephon called me and said: 'What do you think of him,
  Socrates? Has he not a beautiful face?'

  'That he has indeed,' I said.

  'But you would think nothing of his face,' he replied, 'if you
  could see his naked form: he is absolutely perfect.'

    [1] I quote from Professor Jowett's translation.

This Charmides is a true Greek of the perfect type. Not only is he the most beautiful of Athenian
youths; he is also temperate, modest, and subject to the laws of moral health. His very beauty
is a harmony of well-developed faculties in which the mind and body are at one. How a young
Greek managed to preserve this balance in the midst of the admiring crowds described by Socrates
is a marvel. Modern conventions unfit our minds for realising the conditions under which he
had to live. Yet it is indisputable that Plato has strained no point in the animated picture
he presents of the palæstra. Aristophanes and Xenophon bear him out in all the details of the
scene. We have to imagine a totally different system of social morality from ours, with virtues
and vices, temptations and triumphs, unknown to our young men. The next scene from the 'Lysis'
introduces us to another wrestling-ground in the neighbourhood of Athens. Here Socrates meets
with Hippothales, who is a devoted lover but a bad poet. Hippothales asks the philosopher's
advice as to the best method of pleasing the boy Lysis:--

  'Will you tell me by what words or actions I may become
  endeared to my love?'

  'That is not easy to determine,' I said; 'but if you will bring
  your love to me, and will let me talk with him, I may perhaps be
  able to show you how to converse with him, instead of singing
  and reciting in the fashion of which you are accused.'

  'There will be no difficulty in bringing him,' he replied; 'if you
  will only go into the house with Ctesippus, and sit down and talk,
  he will come of himself; for he is fond of listening, Socrates. And
  as this is the festival of the Hermæa, there is no separation of
  young men and boys, but they are all mixed up together. He will
  be sure to come. But if he does not come, Ctesippus, with whom
  he is familiar, and whose relation Menexenus is, his great friend,
  shall call him.'

  'That will be the way,' I said. Thereupon I and Ctesippus
  went towards the Palæstra, and the rest followed.

  Upon entering we found that the boys had just been sacrificing;
  and this part of the festival was nearly come to an end. They
  were all in white array, and games at dice were going on among
  them. Most of them were in the outer court amusing themselves;
  but some were in a corner of the Apodyterium playing at odd-and-even
  with a number of dice, which they took out of little wicker
  baskets. There was also a circle of lookers-on, one of whom was
  Lysis. He was standing among the other boys and youths, having
  a crown upon his head, like a fair vision, and not less worthy of
  praise for his goodness than for his beauty. We left them, and
  went over to the opposite side of the room, where we found a quiet
  place, and sat down; and then we began to talk. This attracted
  Lysis, who was constantly turning round to look at us--he was
  evidently wanting to come to us. For a time he hesitated and had
  not the courage to come alone; but first of all, his friend Menexenus
  came in out of the court in the interval of his play, and when
  he saw Ctesippus and myself, came and sat by us; and then Lysis,
  seeing him, followed and sat down with him; and the other boys
  joined. I should observe that Hippothales, when he saw the
  crowd, got behind them, where he thought that he would be out of
  sight of Lysis, lest he should anger him; and there he stood and
  listened.

There are no remains above ground of the buildings which made the Attic gymnasia splendid.
Nor are there in Athens itself many statues of the noble human beings who paced their porches
and reclined beneath their shade. The galleries of Italy and the verses of the poets can alone
help us to repeople the Academy with its mixed multitude of athletes and of sages. The language
of Simætha, in Theocritus, brings the younger men before us: their cheeks are yellower than
helichrysus with the down of youth, and their breasts shine brighter far than the moon, as
though they had but lately left the 'fair toils of the wrestling-ground.' Upon some of the
monumental tablets exposed in the burying-ground of Cerameicus and in the Theseum may be seen
portraits of Athenian citizens. A young man holding a bird, with a boy beside him who carries
a lamp or strigil; a youth, naked, and scraping himself after the games; a boy taking leave
with clasped hands of his mother, while a dog leaps up to fawn upon his knee; a wine-party;
a soul in Charon's boat; a husband parting from his wife: such are the simple subjects of these
monuments; and under each is written [Greek: CHRÊSTE CHAIRE]--Friend, farewell! The tombs of
the women are equally plain in character: a nurse brings a baby to its mother, or a slave helps
her mistress at the toilette table. There is nothing to suggest either the gloom of the grave
or the hope of heaven in any of these sculptures. Their symbolism, if it at all exist, is of
the least mysterious kind. Our attention is rather fixed upon the commonest affairs of life
than on the secrets of death.

As we wander through the ruins of Athens, among temples which are all but perfect, and gardens
which still keep their ancient greenery, we must perforce reflect how all true knowledge of
Greek life has passed away. To picture to ourselves its details, so as to become quite familiar
with the way in which an Athenian thought and felt and occupied his time, is impossible. Such
books as the 'Charicles' of Becker or Wieland's 'Agathon' only increase our sense of hopelessness,
by showing that neither a scholar's learning nor a poet's fancy can pierce the mists of antiquity.
We know that it was a strange and fascinating life, passed for the most part beneath the public
eye, at leisure, without the society of free women, without what we call a home, in constant
exercise of body and mind, in the duties of the law-courts and the assembly, in the toils of
the camp and the perils of the sea, in the amusements of the wrestling-ground and the theatre,
in sportful study and strenuous play. We also know that the citizens of Athens, bred up under
the peculiar conditions of this artificial life, became impassioned lovers of their city;[1]
that the greatest generals, statesmen, poets, orators, artists, historians, and philosophers
that the world can boast, were produced in the short space of a century and a half by a city
numbering about 20,000 burghers. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say with the author of 'Hereditary
Genius,' that the population of Athens, taken as a whole, was as superior to us as we are to
the Australian savages. Long and earnest, therefore, should be our hesitation before we condemn
as pernicious or unprofitable the instincts and the customs of such a race.

    [1] [Greek: Tên tês poleôs dunamin kath' hêmeran ergô
    theômenous kai erastas gignomenous autês].--Thuc. ii. 43.

The permanence of strongly marked features in the landscape of Greece, and the small scale
of the whole country, add a vivid charm to the scenery of its great events. In the harbour
of Peiræus we can scarcely fail to picture to ourselves the pomp which went forth to Sicily
that solemn morning, when the whole host prayed together and made libations at the signal of
the herald's trumpet. The nation of athletes and artists and philosophers were embarked on
what seemed to some a holiday excursion, and for others bid fair to realise unbounded dreams
of ambition or avarice. Only a few were heavy-hearted; but the heaviest of all was the general
who had vainly dissuaded his countrymen from the endeavour, and fruitlessly refused the command
thrust upon him. That was 'the morning of a mighty day, a day of crisis' for the destinies
of Athens. Of all that multitude, how few would come again; of the empire which they made so
manifest in its pride of men and arms, how little but a shadow would be left, when war and
fever and the quarries of Syracuse had done their fore-appointed work! Yet no commotion of
the elements, no eclipse or authentic oracle from heaven, was interposed between the arrogance
of Athens and sure-coming Nemesis. The sun shone, and the waves laughed, smitten by the oars
of galleys racing to Ægina. Meanwhile Zeus from the watchtower of the world held up the scales
of fate, and the balance of Athens was wavering to its fall.

A few strokes of the oar carry us away from Peiræus to a scene fraught with far more thrilling
memories. That little point of rock emergent from the water between Salamis and the mainland,
bare, insignificant, and void of honour among islands to the natural eye, is Psyttaleia. A
strange tightening at the heart assails us when we approach the centre-point of the most memorable
battlefield of history. It was again 'the morning of a mighty day, a day of crisis' for the
destinies, not of Athens alone, but of humanity, when the Persian fleet, after rowing all night
up and down the channel between Salamis and the shore, beheld the face of Phoebus flash from
behind Pentelicus and flood the Acropolis of Athens with fire. The Peiræius recalls a crisis
in the world's drama whereof the great actors were unconscious: fair winds and sunny waves
bore light hearts to Sicily. But Psyttaleia brings before us the heroism of a handful of men,
who knew that the supreme hour of ruin or of victory for their nation and themselves had come.
Terrible therefore was the energy with which they prayed and joined their pæan to the trumpet-blast
of dawn that blazed upon them from the Attic hills. And this time Zeus, when he heard their
cry, saw the scale of Hellas mount to the stars. Let Æschylus tell the tale; for he was there.
A Persian is giving an account of the defeat of Salamis to Atossa:--

  The whole disaster, O my queen, began
  With some fell fiend or devil,--I know not whence:
  For thus it was; from the Athenian host
  A man of Hellas came to thy son, Xerxes,
  Saying that when black night shall fall in gloom,
  The Hellenes would no longer stay, but leap
  Each on the benches of his bark, and save
  Hither and thither by stolen flight their lives.
  He, when he heard thereof, discerning not
  The Hellene's craft, no, nor the spite of heaven,
  To all his captains gives this edict forth:
  When as the sun doth cease to light the world,
  And darkness holds the precincts of the sky,
  They should dispose the fleet in three close ranks,
  To guard the outlets and the water-ways;
  Others should compass Ajax' isle around:
  Seeing that if the Hellenes 'scaped grim death
  By finding for their ships some privy exit,
  It was ordained that all should lose their heads.
  So spake he, led by a mad mind astray,
  Nor knew what should be by the will of heaven.
  They, like well-ordered vassals, with assent
  Straightway prepared their food, and every sailor
  Fitted his oar-blade to the steady rowlock.
  But when the sunlight waned and night apace
  Descended, every man who swayed an oar
  Went to the boats with him who wielded armour.
  Then through the ship's length rank cheered rank in concert,
  Sailing as each was set in order due:
  And all night long the tyrants of the ships
  Kept the whole navy cruising to and fro.
  Night passed: yet never did the host of Hellene
  At any point attempt their stolen sally;
  Until at length, when day with her white steeds
  Forth shining, held the whole world under sway.
  First from the Hellenes with a loud clear cry
  Song-like, a shout made music, and therewith
  The echo of the rocky isle rang back
  Shrill triumph: but the vast barbarian host
  Shorn of their hope trembled; for not for flight
  The Hellenes hymned their solemn pæan then--
  Nay, rather as for battle with stout heart.
  Then too the trumpet speaking fired our foes,
  And with a sudden rush of oars in time
  They smote the deep sea at that clarion cry;
  And in a moment you might see them all.
  The right wing in due order well arrayed
  First took the lead; then came the serried squadron
  Swelling against us, and from many voices
  One cry arose: Ho! sons of Hellenes, up!
  Now free your fatherland, now free your sons,
  Your wives, the fanes of your ancestral gods,
  Your fathers' tombs! Now fight you for your all.
  Yea, and from our side brake an answering hum
  Of Persian voices. Then, no more delay,
  Ship upon ship her beak of biting brass
  Struck stoutly. 'Twas a bark, I ween, of Hellas
  First charged, dashing from a Tyrrhenian galleon
  Her prow-gear; then ran hull on hull pell-mell.
  At first the torrent of the Persian navy
  Bore up: but when the multitude of ships
  Were straitly jammed, and none could help another,
  Huddling with brazen-mouthed beaks they clashed
  And brake their serried banks of oars together;
  Nor were the Hellenes slow or slack to muster
  And pound them in a circle. Then ships' hulks
  Floated keel upwards, and the sea was covered
  With shipwreck multitudinous and with slaughter.
  The shores and jutting reefs were full of corpses.
  In indiscriminate rout, with straining oar,
  The whole barbarian navy turned and fled.
  Our foes, like men 'mid tunnies, draughts of fishes,
  With splintered oars and spokes of shattered spars
  Kept striking, grinding, smashing us: shrill shrieks
  With groanings mingled held the hollow deep,
  Till night's dark eye set limit to the slaughter.
  But for our mass of miseries, could I speak
  Straight on for ten days, I should never sum it:
  For know this well, never in one day died
  Of men so many multitudes before.

After a pause he resumes his narrative by describing Psyttaleia:--

  There lies an island before Salamis,
  Small, with scant harbour, which dance-loving Pan
  Is wont to tread, haunting the salt sea-beaches.
  There Xerxes placed his chiefs, that when the foes
  Chased from their ships should seek the sheltering isle,
  They might with ease destroy the host of Hellas,
  Saving their own friends from the briny straits.
  Ill had he learned what was to hap; for when
  God gave the glory to the Greeks at sea,
  That same day, having fenced their flesh with brass,
  They leaped from out their ships; and in a circle
  Enclosed the whole girth of the isle, that so
  None knew where he should turn; but many fell
  Crushed with sharp stones in conflict, and swift arrows
  Flew from the quivering bowstrings winged with murder.
  At last in one fierce onset with one shout
  They strike, hack, hew the wretches' limbs asunder,
  Till every man alive had fallen beneath them.
  Then Xerxes groaned, seeing the gulf unclose
  Of grief below him; for his throne was raised
  High in the sight of all by the sea-shore.
  Rending his robes, and shrieking a shrill shriek,
  He hurriedly gave orders to his host;
  Then headlong rushed in rout and heedless ruin.

Atossa makes appropriate exclamations of despair and horror. Then the messenger proceeds:--

  The captains of the ships that were not shattered,
  Set speedy sail in flight as the winds blew.
  The remnant of the host died miserably,
  Some in Boeotia round the glimmering springs
  Tired out with thirst; some of us scant of breath
  Escaped, with bare life to the Phocian bounds,
  And land of Doris, and the Melian Gulf,
  Where with kind draughts Spercheius soaks the soil.
  Thence in our flight Achaia's ancient plain
  And Thessaly's stronghold received us worn
  For want of food. Most died in that fell place
  Of thirst and famine; for both deaths were there.
  Yet to Magnesia came we and the coast
  Of Macedonia, to the ford of Axius,
  And Bolbe's canebrakes and the Pangæan range,
  Edonian borders. Then in that grim night
  God sent unseasonable frost, and froze
  The stream of holy Strymon. He who erst
  Recked nought of gods, now prayed with supplication,
  Bowing before the powers of earth and sky.
  But when the hosts from lengthy orisons
  Surceased, it crossed the ice-incrusted ford.
  And he among us who set forth before
  The sun-god's rays were scattered, now was saved.
  For blazing with sharp beams the sun's bright circle
  Pierced the mid-stream, dissolving it with fire.
  There were they huddled. Happy then was he
  Who soonest cut the breath of life asunder.
  Such as survived and had the luck of living,
  Crossed Thrace with pain and peril manifold,
  'Scaping mischance, a miserable remnant,
  Into the dear land of their homes. Wherefore
  Persia may wail, wanting in vain her darlings.
  This is the truth. Much I omit to tell
  Of woes by God wrought on the Persian race.

Upon this triumphal note it were well, perhaps, to pause. Yet since the sojourner in Athens
must needs depart by sea, let us advance a little way farther beyond Salamis. The low shore
of the isthmus soon appears; and there is the hill of Corinth and the site of the city, as
desolate now as when Antipater of Sidon made the sea-waves utter a threnos over her ruins.
'The deathless Nereids, daughters of Oceanus,' still lament by the shore, and the Isthmian
pines are as green as when their boughs were plucked to bind a victor's forehead. Feathering
the grey rock now as then, they bear witness to the wisdom and the moderation of the Greeks,
who gave to the conquerors in sacred games no wreath of gold, or title of nobility, or land,
or jewels, but the honour of an illustrious name, the guerdon of a mighty deed, and branches
taken from the wild pine of Corinth, or the olive of Olympia, or the bay that flourished like
a weed at Delphi. What was indigenous and characteristic of his native soil, not rare and costly
things from foreign lands, was precious to the Greek. This piety, after the lapse of centuries
and the passing away of mighty cities, still bears fruit. Oblivion cannot wholly efface the
memory of those great games while the fir-trees rustle to the sea-wind as of old. Down the
gulf we pass, between mountain range and mountain. On one hand, two peaked Parnassus rears
his cope of snow aloft over Delphi; on the other, Erymanthus and Hermes' home, Cyllene, bar
the pastoral glades of Arcady. Greece is the land of mountains, not of rivers or of plains.
The titles of the hills of Hellas smite our ears with echoes of ancient music--Olympus and
Cithæron, Taygetus, Othrys, Helicon, and Ida. The headlands of the mainland are mountains,
and the islands are mountain summits of a submerged continent. Austerely beautiful, not wild
with an Italian luxuriance, nor mournful with Sicilian monotony of outline, nor yet again overwhelming
with the sublimity of Alps, they seem the proper home of a race which sought its ideal of beauty
in distinction of shape and not in multiplicity of detail, in light and not in richness of
colouring, in form and not in size.

At length the open sea is reached. Past Zante and Cephalonia we glide 'under a roof of blue
Ionian weather;' or, if the sky has been troubled with storm, we watch the moulding of long
glittering cloud-lines, processions and pomps of silvery vapour, fretwork and frieze of alabaster
piled above the islands, pearled promontories and domes of rounded snow. Soon Santa Maura comes
in sight:--

  Leucatæ nimbosa cacumina montis,
  Et formidatus nautis aperitur Apollo.

Here Sappho leapt into the waves to cure love-longing, according to the ancient story; and
he who sees the white cliffs chafed with breakers and burning with fierce light, as it was
once my luck to see them, may well with Childe Harold 'feel or deem he feels no common glow.'
All through the afternoon it had been raining, and the sea was running high beneath a petulant
west wind. But just before evening, while yet there remained a hand's-breadth between the sea
and the sinking sun, the clouds were rent and blown in masses about the sky. Rain still fell
fretfully in scuds and fleeces; but where for hours there had been nothing but a monotone of
greyness, suddenly fire broke and radiance and storm-clouds in commotion. Then, as if built
up by music, a rainbow rose and grew above Leucadia, planting one foot on Actium and the other
on Ithaca, and spanning with a horseshoe arch that touched the zenith, the long line of roseate
cliffs. The clouds upon which this bow was woven were steel-blue beneath and crimson above;
and the bow itself was bathed in fire--its violets and greens and yellows visibly ignited by
the liquid flame on which it rested. The sea beneath, stormily dancing, flashed back from all
its crest the same red glow, shining like a ridged lava-torrent in its first combustion. Then
as the sun sank, the crags burned deeper with scarlet blushes as of blood, and with passionate
bloom as of pomegranate or oleander flowers. Could Turner rise from the grave to paint a picture
that should bear the name of 'Sappho's Leap,' he might strive to paint it thus: and the world
would complain that he had dreamed the poetry of his picture. But who could dream anything
so wild and yet so definite? Only the passion of orchestras, the fire-flight of the last movement
of the C minor symphony, can in the realms of art give utterance to the spirit of scenes like this.

INDEX

Aar, the, i. 20

Abano, ii. 98

Abruzzi, the, ii. 34; iii. 230, 235, 236

Acciaiuoli, Agnolo, ii. 226

Acciauoli, the, iii. 98

Accolti, Bernardo, ii. 83

Accona, iii. 72, 74

Accoramboni, Camillo, ii. 91:
  Claudio, ii. 89:
  Flaminio, ii. 91, 99, 100, 103 foll., 118 foll., 126:
  Marcello, ii. 91 foll., 99, 102, 103, 105:
  Mario, ii. 91:
  Ottavio, ii. 91:
  Scipione, ii. 91:
  Tarquinia, ii. 89, 92, 103:
  Vittoria, ii. 89-125

Achilles, iii. 286

Achradina, iii. 321, 324

Aci, iii. 287

Aci Castello, iii. 284

Acis and Galatea, iii. 284, 285

Acropolis, the, iii. 339, 344, 347

Actium, iii. 364

Adda, the, i. 50, 51, 62, 63, 174

Addison, i. 3

Adelaide, Queen of Lothair, King of Italy, ii. 169, 178

Adelaisie (wife of Berald des Baux), i. 80

Adrian VI. (Pope), ii. 251

Adriatic, the, ii. 1, 3, 56, 59

Æneas, iii. 319

Æschylus, iii. 162, 271, 345, 358-362

Affò, Padre Ireneo, ii. 363 note

Agrigentines, the, iii. 335

Agrigentum, iii. 266

Ajaccio, i. 104-120

Alamanni, Antonio, ii. 328

Alban Hills, ii. 32

Albany, Countess of, i. 352

Alberti, house of the, ii. 213

Alberti, Leo Battista, i. 216; ii. 14, 18, 21-29; iii. 102

Albizzi, the, ii. 50, 209, 213 foll., 221, 224

Albizzi, Maso degli, ii. 213-215

Albizzi, Rinaldo degli, ii. 215, 218, 220, 221, 256

Albula, ii. 127, 128;
  Pass of, i. 53

Aleotti, Giambattista, ii. 180

Alexander the Great, iii. 262

Alexander VI., ii. 47, 74, 184, 191, 193, 237, 363 note

Alexandria, ii. 19; iii. 189, 190, 201, 253

Alfieri, i. 342, 345-359

Alfonso of Aragon, i. 195, 203; ii. 189, 235

Alps, the, i. 1-67, 122, 123, 126, 133, 209, 258; ii. 8, 129, 168 et
  passim

Amadeo, Gian Antonio, i. 146, 150, 151, 191-193, 243

Amalasuntha, daughter of Theodoric the Ostrogoth, ii. 2, 13

Amalfi, i. 103 note; iii. 250-261

Ambrogini family, iii. 101

Ambrogini, Angelo. (See Poliziano, Angelo)

Ambrogini, Benedetto, iii. 101, 102

Ampezzo, the, i. 268

Ana-Capri, iii. 231, 232, 271

Anapus, the, iii. 326, 328

Anchises, iii. 319

Ancona, i. 196, 198; ii. 14, 38, 45, 55, 102, 199; iii. 111

Ancona, Professor d', ii. 276 note

Andrea, Giovann', i. 318

Andreini, ii. 269

Angeli, Niccolo, iii. 151

Angelico, Fra, i. 100, 240; ii. 49; iii. 35, 61, 147-149, 151, 248

Angelo, S., ii. 96

Angelo, Giovan. (See Pius IV.)

Angiolieri, Cecco, iii. 1, 2

Anguillara, Deifobo, Count of, i. 202

Anjou, house of, ii. 188

Ansano, S., iii. 70

Anselmi, ii. 158

Antegnate, i. 197

Antelao, i. 268, 283

Antibes, i. 102

Antinoë, iii. 191, 205

Antinoopolis, iii. 191, 205

Antinous, iii. 184-197, 200-229

Antipater, iii. 322, 362

Antiquari, Jacobo, iii. 126 note

Antonio da Venafro, ii. 47

Aosta, i. 2

Apennines, the, i. 45, 99, 133; ii. 7, 8, 37, 45, 56, 62, 65, 66, 132
  foll., 145, 168; iii. 91 et passim

Apollonius of Tyana, iii. 216

Apulia, i. 87 note; iii. 305

Aquaviva, Dominico d', ii. 94

Aquila, i. 196

Aragazzi, Bartolommeo, iii. 95-100

Aragon, Kings of, i. 79

Arausio, i. 68

Archimedes, iii. 325

Arcipreti family, the, iii. 113

Ardoin of Milan, iii. 299, 300

Aretine, the, ii. 83

Aretino, Pietro, ii. 91

Aretino, Spinello, iii. 304

Aretusi, Cesare, ii. 149 note

Arezzo, ii. 214; iii. 7, 91, 96, 151 note;
  Bishop of, iii. 74

Ariosto, i. 71; ii. 66, 160, 168, 261, 264, 265, 267, 269, 273, 280,
  336, 343

Aristides, iii. 196

Aristophanes, i. 84 note; iii. 161, 341, 351, 353

Aristotle, i. 249; ii. 74; iii. 309

Aristoxenus, iii. 262, 263

Arles, i. 76-81;
  King of, i. 79

Arno, the, iii. 91;
  valley of, iii. 41

Arosa, valley of, i. 33

Arqua, i. 167, 168

Arrian, iii. 205

Aruns, iii. 94

Ascham, Roger, ii. 265, 266

Asciano, iii. 86, 87

Asinarus, iii. 327

Assisi, i. 137; ii. 35, 39, 43, 44, 46; iii. 35, 68, 111, 114, 140

Asso, the, iii. 108

Asti, i. 347, 348; ii. 193, 197

Astolphus, ii. 2

Athens, i. 243; iii. 156, 169, 182, 188, 207, 323, 339-364

Athens, Duke of, ii. 207, 208, 233 note

Atrani, iii. 251, 254

Attendolo, Sforza, i. 195; ii. 71

Atti, Isotta degli, ii. 17 and note, 20

Augustine, S., i. 232

Augustus, Emperor, ii. 1, 14; iii. 215

Aurelius, Marcus, iii. 164, 200

Ausonias, iii. 268

Aversa, iii. 253, 299, 300

Avignon, i. 69-71, 77, 81, 86; ii. 136; iii. 51, 74

Azzo (progenitor of Este and Brunswick), ii. 175

Azzo (son of Sigifredo), ii. 169

Badrutt, Herr Caspar, i. 55

Baffo, i. 259, 260

Baganza, the, ii. 184

Baglioni, the, ii. 16, 47, 71, 236; iii. 81, 113-115, 119-136

Baglioni, Annibale, iii. 132:
  Astorre, iii. 113, 114, 121, 122,
  125, 126:
  Atalanta, iii. 116, 124, 127-129:
  Braccio, iii. 134:
  Carlo Barciglia, iii. 124:
  Constantino, iii. 131:
  Eusebio, iii. 131:
  Filene, iii. 132:
  Galeotto, iii. 124, 132:
  Gentile, ii. 42, iii. 122, 132:
  Gian-Paolo, ii. 47, 220, iii. 116, 117, 122, 125, 127, 128, 130-132:
  Gismondo, iii. 122, 126, 127:
  Grifone, iii. 124:
  Grifonetto, ii. 47, iii. 113, 114, 124-129:
  Guido, iii. 121, 126, 127:
  Ippolita, iii. 131:
  Malatesta, ii. 253, 254, iii. 127, 132:
  Marcantonio, iii. 122, 125, 130:
  Morgante, iii. 119 note 2:
  Niccolo, iii. 120:
  Orazio, iii. 127, 132:
  Pandolfo, iii. 120:
  Pietro Paolo, ii. 41:
  Ridolfo (1), iii. 120, 121:
  Ridolfo (2), iii. 133, 134:
  Simonetto, iii. 123, 124, 126:
  Taddeo, iii. 131:
  Troilo, iii. 122, 127

Baiæ, iii. 242

Balzac, ii. 160

Bandello, i. 155, 157, 158, 270; ii. 116, 265, 271, 277

Bandinelli, Messer Francesco, iii. 10-12

Barano, the, ii. 56-58

Barbarossa, Frederick, ii. 69, 201; iii. 7, 271, 290, 306 note 2

Bari, Duke of. (See Sforza, Lodovico)

Bartolo, San, iii. 59

Bartolommeo, Fra, iii. 63, 99

Basaiti, i. 269

Basella, i. 193

Basinio, ii. 18

Basle, i. 1, 2

Bassano, i. 340

Bastelica, i. 109, 113, 115

Bastia, Matteo di, i. 216

Battagli, Gian Battista, i. 216

Battifolle, Count Simone da, iii. 11

Baudelaire, iii. 280

Baveno, i. 19

Bayard, i. 113

Bazzi, Giovannantonio. (See Sodoma)

Beatrice, Countess, iii. 144

Beatrice, Dante's, ii. 6

Beatrice of Lorraine, ii. 170

Beaumarchais, i. 228, 229, 234

Beaumont and Fletcher, ii. 267, 269

Becchi, Gentile, ii. 192

Beethoven, i. 10, 249; ii. 160

Belcari, Feo, ii. 305

Belcaro, iii. 66, 68

Belisarius, ii. 2; iii. 290

Bellagio, i. 186

Bellano, i. 186

Belleforest, ii. 116

Bellini, Gentile, i. 269, 270

Bellini, Gian, i. 263, 269; ii. 55, 135

Bellinzona, i. 180

Bembo, Pietro, ii. 82, 85

Benci, Spinello, iii. 94

Benedict, S., iii. 73, 81, 85, 248

Benevento, iii. 251, 252, 299

Benincasa, Jacopo (father of S. Catherine of Siena), iii. 50

Benivieni, ii. 305

Bentivogli, the, ii. 47, 178, 224

Bentivogli, Alessandro de', i. 155, 156

Bentivogli, Ercole de', ii. 224

Bentivoglio, Ermes, ii. 47

Benzone, Giorgio, i. 194

Beral des Baux, i. 79, 80

Berangère des Baux, i. 80

Berceto, ii. 131, 133

Berenger, King of Italy, ii. 169

Berenger, Raymond, i. 80

Bergamo, i. 190-207; ii. 82

Bernardino, S., iii. 69, 113

Bernardo, iii. 69-75

Bernardo da Campo, i. 61

Berne, i. 20

Bernhardt, Madame, ii. 108

Berni, ii. 270

Bernina, the, i. 37, 55-57, 60, 64, 126; ii. 128

Bernini, ii. 159

Bersaglio, i. 268

Bervic, ii. 149

Besa, iii. 190, 191, 205

Besozzi, Francesco, i. 156

Bevagna, ii. 35, 38

Beyle, Henri, ii. 102

Bianco, Bernardo, i. 177

Bibbiena, Cardinal, ii. 82, 83

Bibboni, Francesco, or Cecco, i. 327-341

Bion, i. 152; ii. 303

Biondo, Flavio, ii. 28

Bisola, Lodovico, ii. 150

Bithynia, iii. 208

Bithynium, iii. 187, 208

Blacas (a knight of Provence), i. 80

Blake, the poet, i. 101, 265; ii. 273; iii. 166, 260

Boccaccio, ii. 7, 160, 208, 260, 261, 265, 270, 272, 273, 277, 334; iii.
  16, 50, 248, 293

Bocognano, i. 109-111, 115

Bohemond, Prince of Tarentum, iii. 297, 298

Boiardo, Matteo Maria, ii. 30, 66, 269, 343

Boldoni, Polidoro, i. 183

Bologna, i. 121, 155, 192, 196, 326; ii. 29, 47, 85, 185, 224

Bologna, Gian, ii. 86

Bolsena, iii. 140, 141;
  Lake of, iii. 22

Bona of Savoy (wife of Galeazzo Maria Sforza), ii. 230

Bondeno de' Roncori, ii. 178

Bonifazio (of Canossa), ii. 169, 170

Bordighera, i. 102, 103

Bordone, Paris, ii. 109

Borgia family, ii. 66, 117, 363 note

Borgia, Cesare, ii. 47, 48, 73, 74, 80, 83, 126, 363 note; iii. 131

Borgia, Lucrezia, ii. 363 note

Borgia, Roderigo, i. 220. (See also Alexander VI.)

Borgognone, Ambrogio, i. 146-148; iii. 64

Bormio, i. 61, 180

Borromeo family, iii. 14

Borromeo, Carlo, i. 182

Borromeo, Count Giberto, i. 182

Boscoli, i. 341; ii. 246

Bosola, i. 149

Botticelli, Sandro, i. 266; ii. 29, 30; iii. 180 note

Bötticher, Charles, iii. 225

Bourbon, Duke of, i. 158;
  Constable of, ii. 252

Bracciano, Duke of, ii. 91 foll., 104

Bracciano, second Duke of, ii. 93, 99, 101

Braccio, i. 195, 197, 204, 207; ii. 47; iii. 81

Braccio, Filippo da, iii. 124-126

Bracciolini, Poggio, iii. 96, 336

Bragadin, Aloisio, ii. 101

Bramante, i. 216, 243

Brancacci, Cardinal, iii. 96

Brancaleone, Senator, iii. 336

Brancaleoni family, ii. 66, 69

Bregaglia, i. 35;
  valley of, i. 184

Brenner, the, ii. 168

Brenta, the, i. 258

Brescia, i. 63, 200; ii. 103, 169

Brest, Anna Maria, ii. 149

Brianza, the, i. 185, 186

Brolio, iii. 94

Bronte, iii. 279

Browne, Sir Thomas, i. 44; iii. 337

Browning, Robert, ii. 102, 270, 273, 281; iii. 173

Browning, Mrs., ii. 270, 271; iii. 173

Bruni, Lionardo, iii. 96, 98, 99

Buol family, the, i. 35, 36, 40, 41, 49, 61

Buol, Herr, i. 34-36

Buonaparte family, the, i. 119, 120

Buonarroti, Michel Angelo, i. 176, 193, 221, 236, 243, 326; ii. 21, 30,
  40, 152, 158, 160, 161, 178, 253, 332; iii. 20, 22, 145, 146, 150, 154,
  161

Buonconvento, iii. 72, 76

Burano, i. 258

Burgundy, Duke of, i. 202, 203

Burne-Jones, ii. 29

Busti, Agostino, i. 159, 161, 193

Byron, i. 280; ii. 7, 13, 15, 146, 162, 270, 271

Cadenabbia, i. 121, 173

Cadore, i. 267

Cæsarea, ii. 1

Cagli, ii. 56, 69, 74

Cajano, ii. 221

Calabria, iii. 305;
  mountains of, 288

Calabria, Duke of, iii. 11

Calascibetta, iii. 302

Caldora, Giovanni Antonio, i. 202

Caldora, Jacopo, i. 196

Caligula, i. 134-136; iii. 2, 156, 163, 197, 273, 274

Calles (Cagli), ii. 57

Camargue, the, i. 78, 81

Camerino, Duchy of, i. 185; ii. 47, 73

Campagna, the, ii. 32

Campaldino, ii. 206

Campanella, iii. 20, 270

Campèll (or Campbèll) family, the i. 61, 62 and note

Campione, i. 175

Canale, Messer Carlo, ii. 363 note

Cannaregio, i. 268, 269, 339

Cannes, i. 103 note; ii. 143

Canonge, Jules, i. 81

Canossa, ii. 163-179

Cantù, i. 340

Cap S. Martin, i. 90

Capello, Bianca, ii. 93, 126

Capponi, Agostino, ii. 246

Capponi, Niccolo, ii. 253

Capri, ii. 58; iii. 242, 256, 269-276

Caracalla, i. 135; iii. 197

Cardona, Viceroy, ii. 244

Carducci, Francesco, ii. 253, 325

Carini, Baronessa di, ii. 276

Carlyle (quoted), i. 72

Carmagnola, i. 197, 200, 208; ii. 71

Carmagnuola, Bussoni di, ii. 17 and note

Carpaccio, Vittore, i. 269, 270; ii. 42

Carpegna, ii. 64

Carpi, Duchy of, i. 185; ii. 168

Carpi, the princes of, i. 202

Carrara range, the, ii. 134, 146, 218, 238

Casamicciola, iii. 234, 239

Casanova, i. 259, 260

Cascese, Santi da, ii. 224

Casentino, iii. 92

Cassinesi, the, iii. 248

Cassius, Dion, iii. 191, 193, 195-197, 219

Castagniccia, i. 110

Castagno, Andrea del, ii. 233

Castellammare, i. 103 note; iii. 232, 250, 276

Casti, Abbé, ii. 270

Castiglione, i. 144, 145; ii. 68, 80, 82; iii. 106, 108

Castro Giovanni, mountains of, iii. 279, 302, 304, 320

Catania, i. 87 note; iii. 279, 280, 288, 302, 304, 325

Catherine, S. (of Alexandria), i. 136, 142, 153, 155-157, 178; iii. 55,
  61

Catherine, S. (of Sienna), i. 70; iii. 48-65

Catria, iii. 73

Catullus, iii. 180

Cavalcanti, Guido, ii. 261, 308, 325, 343

Cavicciuoli, Messer Guerra, iii. 2

Cavro, i. 109

Cécile (Passe Rose), i. 81

Cefalú, iii. 291

Cellant, Contessa di, i. 157-159

Cellant, Count of, i. 158

Cellini, Benvenuto, i. 2, 189, 240, 241, 328; ii. 25

Celsano, i. 329

Celsus, iii. 211, 219, 220

Cenci, the, ii. 17, 89

Cenci, Beatrice, ii. 102, 270

Ceno, the, ii. 183, 195

Centorbi, iii. 302

Cephalonia, iii. 363

Cephissus, the, iii. 350

Cerami, iii. 304

Cervantes, ii. 160

Cesena, ii. 15, 62

Cetona, iii. 103

Chalcedon, iii. 212

Châlons, the, i. 79

Chapman, George, ii. 268

Charles IV., iii. 6

Charles V., i. 184, 185, 187, 188, 319, 338, 339; ii. 75, 202, 255, 257

Charles VIII., ii. 67, 132, 183, 189 and note, 191-197, 238, 328

Charles of Anjou, iii. 315 note

Charles the Bold, i. 202

Charles Martel, i. 75

Charles of Valois, ii. 207

Chartres, i. 243

Chateaubriand, ii. 13

Chatterton, ii. 273

Chaucer, ii. 258, 260, 261, 270, 272

Chiana, the, iii. 91; valley of, iii. 90, 97

Chianti, iii. 94

Chiara, S., ii. 36, 37

Chiarelli, the, of Fabriano, ii. 236

Chiavari, iii. 256

Chiavenna, i. 35, 53, 63, 180, 184; ii. 130, 131

Chioggia, i. 257-261

Chiozzia, i. 350, 351

Chiusi, i. 86; ii. 50, 51, 52; iii. 22, 90, 92;
  Lake of, iii. 91, 94, 101

Chiusure, iii. 77, 78, 80

Chivasso, i. 19

Christiern of Denmark, i. 205

Chur, i. 49, 65

Cicero, iii. 321

Ciclopidi rocks, iii. 284

Cima, i. 263

Cimabue, iii. 35, 144

Ciminian Hills, ii. 88; iii. 22

Cini family. (See Ambrogini)

Cinthio, ii. 265, 272, 277

Ciompi, the, ii. 208, 209

Cisa, i. 340

Città della Pieve, ii. 51

Città di Castello, ii. 47, 71

Ciuffagni, Bernardo, ii. 30

Clair, S., ii. 37 and note

Clairvaux, Abbot of, iii. 70

Claudian, ii. 57, 343, 344

Clemens Alexandrinus, iii. 204, 217, 219

Clement VI., iii. 74, 132

Clement VII., i. 221, 316, 317, 321; ii. 233, 239, 247 foll.; iii. 138
  note, 247

Climmnus, the, ii. 35, 39

Cloanthus, iii. 319

Clough, the poet, ii. 273

Clusium, iii. 93, 94

Coire, i. 183

Col de Checruit, the, i. 15

Coleridge, S.T., ii. 273; iii. 173

Colico, i. 64, 183

Collalto, Count Salici da, i. 337

Colleoni family, the, i. 194

Colleoni, Bartolommeo, i. 192-208; ii. 71

Colleoni, Medea, i. 193, 204

Collona family, ii. 187

Colma, the, i. 18

Colombini, iii. 69

Colonna, Francesco, iii. 103

Colonna, Giovanni, iii. 125, 254

Colonus, the, iii. 350

Columbus, i. 97; ii. 237

Commodus, i. 135; iii. 164

Comnena, Anna, iii. 297

Como, i. 136, 174-189

Como, Lake of, i. 50, 64, 122, 173, 174, 179, 181, 183-186

Conrad (of Canossa), ii. 178

Conrad, King of Italy, iii. 305

Conradin, iii. 298

Constance, daughter of King Roger of Sicily, iii. 297, 318

Constance of Aragon, wife of Frederick II., iii. 307 note

Constantinople, ii. 186; iii. 311

Contado, iii. 90

Copton, iii. 205

Corfu, i. 87 note, 103 note

Corgna, Bernardo da, iii. 125

Corinth, iii. 212, 322, 342, 362

Cormayeur, valley of, i. 9, 14-16

Correggio, i. 137, 140, 163; ii. 126, 147-162

Corsica, i. 85, 102-120; ii. 286

Corte, i. 110, 111

Corte Savella, ii. 96

Cortina, i. 268

Cortona, ii. 48-51, 214; iii. 90, 92, 151 note

Cortusi, the, iii. 6

Corviolo, ii. 170, 178

Coryat, Tom, i. 49

Costa (of Venice), Antonio, ii. 150

Costa (of Rome), ii. 33, 146

Courthezon, i. 81

Covo, i. 197

Cramont, the, i. 15

Credi, Lorenzo di, iii. 35

Crema, i. 194, 209-222

Cremona, i. 209, 213, 215; iii. 6

Crimisus, the, iii. 304, 319

Crotona, iii. 319

Crowne, the dramatist, ii. 159

Cuma, iii. 212

Curtius, Lancinus, i. 159, 193

Cyane, the, iii. 328

Cybo, Franceschetto, ii. 239

Dalcò, Antonio, ii. 150

Dandolo, Gherardo, i. 198

Dandolo, Matteo, iii. 133

Daniel, Samuel (the poet), ii. 263

Dante, i. 29, 80; ii. 5, 6, 13, 15, 23, 65, 70, 136, 137, 160, 170, 206,
  207, 261, 262, 269, 273, 277, 305, 343; iii. 2, 19, 25, 36, 43 note,
  67, 69, 73, 111, 144, 149, 173, 241, 317

D'Arcello, Filippo, i. 195

Davenant, Sir William, ii. 267

David, Jacques Louis, i. 71, 72

Davos, i. 20, 28-47, 49, 53, 58, 65, 183

Davos Dörfli, i. 53

De Comines, Philippe, ii. 190, 193-197; iii. 45 note, 69

De Gié, Maréchal, ii. 199

De Musset, iii. 163, 235

De Quincey, ii. 113; iii. 273 note

De Rosset, ii. 103

Dekker, Thomas, ii. 267

Del Corvo, ii. 136

Della Casa, Giovanni, i. 331, 333

Della Porta, i. 193

Della Quercia, i. 192

Della Rocca, Giudice, i. 112, 113

Della Rovere family, ii. 66 (see also Rovere)

Della Seta, Galeazzo, i. 329

Demetrius, iii. 113

Demosthenes, iii. 323, 324, 326, 327

Desenzano, i. 173

Dickens, Charles, iii. 39

Dionysius, iii. 322, 325

Dischma-Thal, the, i. 49

Dolce Acqua, ii. 136

Dolcebono, Gian Giacomo, i. 153

Domenico da Leccio, Fra, iii. 83

Dominic, S., i. 221; iii. 61

Donatello, i. 150, 178; ii. 29, 30, 41; iii. 96, 97, 100

Doni, Adone, iii. 114

Doré, Gustave, i. 264; ii. 15

Doria, Pietro, i. 260

Doria, Stephen, i. 113

Dorias, the, i. 97

Dossi, Dosso, i. 166, 170, 172

Drayton, Michael, ii. 263

Druids, the, iii. 29

Drummond, William (the poet), ii. 263

Dryden, i. 2, 6; ii. 7, 270

Duccio, iii. 144, 145

Dürer, Albert, i. 345; ii. 275; iii. 260

Eckermann, ii. 157, 162

Edolo, i. 63

Edrisi, iii. 308, 309

Egypt, iii. 189, 190, 192, 210 foll.

Eichens, Edward, ii. 150

Eiger, the, i. 12

Electra, ii. 135

'Eliot, George,' ii. 270

Emilia, ii. 16

Emilia Pia, ii. 82

Empedocles, i. 87; iii. 172, 173, 174, 181, 337

Empoli, iii. 41, 87

Engadine, the, i. 48, 55, 56, 61, 183; ii. 128

Enna, iii. 302, 303 and note

Ennius, iii. 173, 181

Enza, the, ii. 166

Enzio, King, iii. 298

Epicurus, iii. 173, 174, 181

Eridanus, ii. 131

Eryx (Lerici), ii. 142

Este, i. 167

Este family, the, i. 166; ii. 68, 251, 268

Este, Azzo d', iii. 6:
  Beatrice d', i. 150:
  Cardinal d', ii. 91:
  Ercole d', i. 202, ii. 236:
  Guelfo d', ii. 177:
  Guinipera d', ii. 17;
  Lucrezia d', ii. 77, 83:
  Niccolo d', ii. 236

Estrelles, the, i. 102

Etna, iii. 93, 103, 198, 279-287, 319, 325, 327

Etruscans, the, i. 49

Euganeans, the, i. 258, 281, 282; ii. 168

Eugénie, Empress, i. 119

Eugenius IV., i. 199; ii. 70, 220

Euhemerus, iii. 173

Euripides, ii. 142, 159 note, 335; iii. 89, 215, 340

Eusebius, iii. 197, 219

Everelina, ii. 166

Fabretti, Raffaello, iii. 209

Faenza, ii. 47

Fairfax, Edward, translator of Tasso, ii. 265

Fano, ii. 57, 59, 69

Fanum Fortunæ (Fano), ii. 57

Farnese, Alessandro, i. 317:
  Julia, i. 193:
  Odoardo, ii. 180:
  Pier Luigi, iii. 133:
  Ranunzio, ii. 180:
  Vittoria, ii. 76

Farnesi family, ii. 75, 90, 117, 180; iii. 336

Faro, the, iii. 301, 320

Favara, iii. 309

Federighi, Antonio, iii. 62

Federigo of Urbino. (See Urbino)

Feltre, Vittorino da, ii. 70

Ferdinand, Grand Duke of Tuscany, ii. 78

Ferdinand of Aragon, ii. 189, 191, 192, 193, 234; iii. 274, 276

Fermo, ii. 47, 90

Ferrara, i. 166, 167, 171; ii. 67, 68, 168, 169, 185, 221; iii. 6

Ferrara, Duke of, i. 206

Ferrari, Gaudenzio, i. 137-139, 141, 162-164, 177

Ferretti, Professor, ii. 179

Ferrucci, Francesco, i. 343; ii. 254

Fesch, Cardinal, i. 118

Fiesole, i. 86

Filelfo, Francesco, ii. 25

Filibert of Savoy, ii. 91

Filiberta, Princess of Savoy, ii. 247

Filippo, i. 149

Filonardi, Cinzio, iii. 133

Fina, Santa, iii. 59

Finiguerra, Maso, i. 218

Finsteraarhorn, the, ii. 136

Fiorenzuola, ii. 197, 284

Flaminian Way, ii. 55, 57

Flaxman, ii. 15

Fletcher, the dramatist, i. 358; ii. 267

Florence, i. 121, 316, 318, 319; ii. 5, 50, 145, 185, 187, 198, 201-257,
  259, 305, 306; iii. 7, 10, 21, 132, 151 note, 317 note, et passim

Florence, Duke of, i. 187

Fluela, the, i. 29, 37, 54

Fluela Bernina Pass, the, i. 53

Fluela Hospice, i. 59

Foglia, the, ii. 65

Foiano, ii. 50

Folcioni, Signor, i. 217

Folengo, ii. 270

Folgore da San Gemignano, ii. 53; iii. 1-20, 67, 70

Foligno, ii. 37-41, 45, 46, 52

Fondi, i. 318

Ford, John (the dramatist), ii, 267, 277

Forio, iii. 236, 237

Fornovo, ii. 132, 180-200

Fortini, iii. 68

Forulus (Furlo), ii. 57

Forum Sempronii (Fossombrone), ii. 57

Foscari, the, ii. 98

Fosdinovo, ii. 134-137

Fossato, ii. 52

Fossombrone, ii. 57, 58, 69, 85, 91

Fouquet, i. 80

Francesco, Fra, i. 269

Francesco da Carrara, iii. 6

Francesco Maria I. of Urbino. (See Urbino)

Francesco Maria II. of Urbino. (See Urbino)

Francia, Francesco, ii. 33

Francis I. of France, i. 113, 183, 184

Francis of Assisi, S., i. 99, 100; ii. 23, 44; iii. 57, 58, 61, 113

François des Baux, i. 81

Frederick, Emperor, i. 80

Frederick II., Emperor, iii. 297, 315 and note, 316-318

Frere, J.H., ii. 270

Friedrichs, iii. 224

Frisingensis, Otto, iii. 7

Friuli, i. 351

Furka, ii. 130

Furlo, ii. 55

Furlo Pass, ii. 57, 58

Fusina, i. 281

Gaeta, i. 318; iii. 235

Galatea, i. 91

Galileo, ii. 27

Galli Islands, iii. 270

Gallio, Marchese Giacomo, i. 179

Gallo, Antonio di San, iii. 90, 102

Gallo, Francesco da San, ii. 253; iii. 247

Garda, i. 173;
  Lake of, ii. 98, 169

Gardon, the, valley of, i. 75

Garfagnana, ii. 168

Garigliano, iii. 247

Gaston de Foix, i. 160, 161, 193; ii. 2, 10

Gattamelata (Erasmo da Narni), i. 197; ii. 41, 71

Gellias, iii. 337

Gelon, iii. 290, 304

Genoa, i. 97, 105, 113, 259; ii. 185; iii. 250, 253, 317 note

Gentile, Girolamo, ii. 236

George of Antioch, iii. 307, 311

Gérard, ii. 149

Gerardo da Camino, iii. 6

Ghiacciuolo, ii. 15

Ghibellines, ii. 15, 54, 69, 202 foll.; iii. 17, 43 note, 73, 110

Ghiberti, Lorenzo di Cino, ii. 30; iii. 145, 146

Giannandrea, bravo of Verona, ii. 85

Giardini, iii. 287

Giarre, iii. 279

Gibbon, Edward (cited), i. 346

Ginori, Caterina, i. 323, 324

Ginori, Lionardo, i. 323

Giordani, i. 326

Giorgione, i. 345; iii. 247

Giottino, ii. 233 note

Giotto, i. 152; ii. 43, 206; iii. 35, 145, 248

Giovanni da Fogliani, ii. 47

Giovenone, i. 139

Giovio, i. 322

Girgenti, iii. 266, 291, 302, 304, 320, 321, 332-338

Giulio Romano, i. 140, 152

Glastonbury, iii. 29, 47

Gnoli, Professor, i. 327 note; ii. 102 note, 103

Godfrey, the Hunchback, ii. 170

Godfrey, Duke of Lorraine, ii. 170

Goethe, i. 5, 6, 10, 11, 131, 164, 237; ii. 26, 157, 160, 162; iii. 172,
  173, 320

Goldoni, i. 259, 345-359

Golo, the, valley of, i. 111

Gonfalonier of Florence, ii. 83, 206, 209, 243, 245, 253

Gonzaga family, ii. 68

Gonzaga, Alessandro, i. 186:
  Elisabetta, ii. 73:
  Francesco, ii. 73, 194, 196, 197, 345, 363 note:
  Giulia, i. 318:
  Leonora, ii. 76

Gorbio, i. 85, 91

Gozzoli, Benozzo, i. 137; ii. 35

Graubünden, the, i. 50

Gravedona, i. 181

Gray, the poet, i. 3; ii. 273

Greece, and the Greeks, i. 101, 102, 240, 244; ii. 18; iii. 155 foll.,
  260 foll., 285-287, 290-292, 320 foll., 339-364

Greene, Robert, ii. 265, 266, 267

Gregory VII., ii. 172, 173-176 (see also Hildebrand)

Gregory XI., iii. 51

Gregory XIII., ii. 88, 95, 96, 97

Grenoble, i. 111

Grigioni, the, i. 49

Grindelwald, iii. 275

Grisons, Canton of the, i. 48, 49, 50, 183, 184, 186, 188

Grivola, the, i. 126

Grosseto, iii. 66

Grote, the historian, iii. 323

Grumello, i. 48, 64

Guarini, ii. 267

Guazzi, the, i. 329

Gubbio, ii. 35, 45, 52-55, 69, 85, 89, 97

Guelfs, ii. 15, 54, 202 foll.; iii. 17, 110, 112

Guérin, ii. 43

Guicciardini, Francesco, i. 319; ii. 75, 255

Guiccioli, Countess, ii. 7

Guidantonio, Count, ii. 70

Guido, iii. 184

Guidobaldo I. (See Urbino)

Guidobaldo II. (See Urbino)

Guillaume de Cabestan, i. 80

Guiscard, Robert, iii. 262, 297, 298, 300

Gyas, iii. 319

Gylippus, iii. 323, 324, 326, 337

Hadrian, iii. 164, 185, 187-205, 208, 210, 212, 224, 225, 226, 228, 343,
  345

Halycus, the, iii. 319

Handel, iii. 40

Harmodius, ii. 135; iii. 155

Harrington, Sir John, ii. 265

Harvey, Gabriel, ii. 265

Hauteville, house of, iii. 252, 253, 254, 290, 294 foll.

Hazlitt, ii. 109

Hegesippus, iii. 188

Helbig, iii. 187

Heliogabalus, i. 135; iii. 164

Henry II. of France, i. 316

Henry III., ii. 170

Henry IV., King of Italy, ii. 170, 173-177; iii. 300 note

Henry V., Emperor, ii. 178

Henry VI. (of Sicily), iii. 297, 318

Henry VII., Emperor, iii. 72, 76

Hermopolis, iii. 205

Herodotus, iii. 319

Herrick, Robert, ii. 324

Hesiod, ii. 338; iii. 172, 173

Hiero II., iii. 325

Hildebrand, ii. 163, 171, 172; iii. 300 note 2, 305

Himera, the, iii. 304

Hispellum (Spello), ii. 38

Hoby, Thomas, ii. 265

Hoffnungsau, i. 66

Hohenstauffen, house of, ii. 188, 202; iii. 290, 297, 315

Homer, i. 84 note; iii. 155, 226, 286, 287, 320

Honorius, Emperor, ii. 2, 57

Horace, ii. 273; iii. 180

Howell, James, ii. 266

Hugh, Abbot of Clugny, ii. 175, 176

Hugo, Victor, iii. 164

Hunt, Leigh, ii. 15, 146, 270

Hymettus, iii. 351

Ibn-Hamûd, iii. 304

Ictinus, iii. 267, 343

Il Medeghino. (See Medici, Gian Giacomo de')

Ilaria del Caretto, iii. 98

Ilario, Fra, ii. 136, 137

Ilissus, the, iii. 350

Imola, ii. 231

Imperial, Prince, i. 119

Inn river, the, i, 54, 55

Innocent III., ii. 203

Innocent VIII., ii. 184

Innsprück, i. 111

Isabella of Aragon, ii. 192

Isac, Antonio, ii. 149

Ischia, iii. 233, 234, 236, 238, 241

Isella, i. 19

Iseo, Lake, i. 173, 174

Ithaca, iii. 364

Itri, i. 318, 319

Jacobshorn, the, ii. 131

James 'III. of England,' ii. 83

Joachim, Abbot, iii. 141, 142

Joan of Naples, i. 81, 195

John XXII., iii. 74

John XXIII., iii. 96

John of Austria, Don, ii. 77

Jonson, Ben, ii. 267, 268

Jourdain (the hangman of the Glacière), i. 72

Judith of Evreux, iii. 303

Julia, daughter of Claudius, ii. 36

Julian, iii. 197

Julier, ii. 127, 128

Julius II., i. 221; ii. 74, 83, 220; iii. 131

Jungfrau, the, i. 12

Justin Martyr, iii. 197, 219

Justinian, ii. 10, 12

Juvara, Aloisio, ii. 150

Juvenal, iii. 181, 199

Keats, the poet, ii. 262, 263, 270, 273

Kelbite dynasty, iii. 292, 301

Killigrew, the dramatist, ii. 159

Klosters, i. 30, 46

La Cisa, the pass, ii. 132, 133

La Madonna di Tirano, i. 61, 62

La Magione, ii. 46-48

La Rosa, i. 59

La Spezzia, ii. 137-139, 143

La Staffa family, the, iii. 113

Lacca, iii. 236

Lamb, Charles, ii. 110

Lampridius, iii. 197

Landona, iii. 127

Lanini, i. 139-142, 162

Lanuvium, iii. 209

Lars Porsena, ii. 52, 93

Laschi, the, i. 329

Le Prese, i. 60

Leake, Colonel, iii. 325

Lecco, i. 183, 185, 186, 188

Legnano, ii. 198

Lenz, i. 65

Leo IX., iii. 300

Leo X., i. 221; ii. 75, 88, 246; iii. 132

Leonardo. (See Vinci, Leonardo da)

Leoncina, Monna Ippolita, ii. 308

Leopardi, Alessandro, i. 207, 326; ii. 62

Lepanto, ii. 77, 93

Lepidus, ii. 27

Lerici, ii. 139, 142-145

Les Baux, i. 77-81; ii. 136

Leucadia, iii. 364

Levezow, Von, iii. 211

Leyva, Anton de, i. 187

Lido, the, i. 280, 283-286; ii. 1

Liguria, the, i. 97; ii. 178, 283

Lilyboeum, iii. 294 note

Lioni, Leone, i. 188

L'Isle, i. 72

Livorno, ii. 145, 214

Livy, iii. 94, 171

Lo Spagna, iii. 114

Lodi, i. 216

Lomazzo, i. 137

Lombardy, i. 19, 49, 61, 121, 122, 129, 133-172, 209; ii. 129, 132, 147,
  165, 168, 182

Lorenzaccio, ii. 41

Lorenzetti, Ambrogio, iii. 8, 36, 43, 44

Lorenzo, Bernardo di, iii. 105

Loreto, ii. 97

Lothair, King of Italy, ii. 169

Louis XI, ii. 237

Louis of Anjou, i. 195

Lovere, i. 174

Loyola, Ignatius, iii. 61

Lucan (quoted), i. 92

Lucca, ii. 145, 168, 170, 203, 211, 214, 218, 286; iii. 4, 98

Lucca, Pauline, i. 224, 226, 227, 229, 233, 234, 237

Lucera, iii. 315 and note

Lucius III., iii. 312

Lucretius, iii. 157-183

Lugano, i. 125, 128, 156, 180

Lugano, Lake, i. 122, 125, 169, 185

Luigi, Pier, ii. 180

Luini, i. 141, 148, 153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 162, 164-166, 177, 178;
  iii. 184

Luna, Etruscan, ii. 131

Luziano of Lauranna, ii. 78

Lyly, John, ii. 268

Lysimeleia, iii. 327

Macedonia, iii. 323

Machiavelli, ii. 16, 41, 75, 117, 219, 220, 225, 231, 250; iii. 131

Macugnaga, i. 18, 20; iii. 282

Madrid, iii. 223

Magenta, i. 127

Maggiore, Lake, i. 124, 173

Magnanapoli, ii. 95, 96, 103

Magnani, Giuseppe, ii. 150

Magra, the, ii. 133, 134, 136, 238

Maitani, Lorenzo, iii. 142

Majano, Benedetto da, ii. 30

Malamocco, i. 257, 280, 281

Malaspina family, ii. 134, 136

Malaspina, Moroello, ii. 136

Malaterra, Godfrey, iii. 298

Malatesta family, ii. 15-17, 62, 66, 69, 71, 278; iii. 121

Malatesta, Gian Galeazzo, ii. 16

Malatesta, Giovanni, ii. 15

Malatesta, Sigismondo Pandolfo, i. 135, 202, 203; ii. 14, 16-21, 72;
  iii. 7

Malfi, Duchess of, i. 149

Malghera, i. 339

Malipiero, Pasquale, i. 200

Maloja, i. 55, ii. 128, 129;
  the Pass of, i. 53

Malpaga, i. 205, 206

Manente, M. Francesco, i. 329

Manfred, King, ii. 203

Manfredi, the, ii. 47

Manfredi, Astorre, i. 202; iii. 197

Manfredi, Taddeo, ii. 231

Maniaces, iii. 299, 301

Mansueti, i. 269

Mantegna, i. 176; ii. 100, 197; iii. 180

Mantinea, iii. 207

Mantua, i. 340; ii. 68, 70, 74, 168, 185, 345

Mantua, Dukes of, i. 186, 243

Mantua, Marquis of, ii. 194-196, 199

Marcellinus, Ammianus, iii. 197, 205

Marcellus, iii. 186

March, the, ii. 16, 187

Marches of Ancona, ii. 199

Marecchia, the, ii. 14

Maremma, the, ii. 286; iii. 69, 103

Marenzio, iii. 37

Margaret of Austria, ii. 180

Maria, Galeazzo, i. 149

Maria, Gian, i. 149

Maria Louisa, Duchess of Parma, ii. 149

Marianazzo, robber chieftain, ii. 88

Mariano family, the, i. 139

Marignano, i. 186

Marignano, Marquis of. (See Medici, Gian Giacomo de')

Mark, S., ii. 19

Marlowe, Christopher, ii. 159, 181, 258, 267, 268 and note; iii. 228

Maroggia, i. 175

Marseilles, i. 2

Marston, the dramatist, ii. 113, 267, 268

Martelli, Giovan Battista, i. 334, 335

Martelli, Luca, i. 340

Martial, i. 2; iii. 268

Martin V., iii. 95

Martinengo, i. 203

Martinengo family, i. 204

Martini, Biagio, ii. 149

Masaccio, i. 144, 145

Masolino da Panicale, i. 144, 145; ii. 55

Mason (artist), ii. 32, 129

Massinger, Philip, ii. 267

Matarazzo, iii. 121, 122, 128, 130, 134

Matilda, Countess, ii. 165, 168, 170-173, 179; iii. 300 note 2

Matteo of Ajello, iii. 308 note, 311

Mauro, S., iii. 248

Mayenfeld, i. 65

Mazara, iii. 281

Mazzorbo, i. 282

Medici family, i. 187, 315-344; ii. 66, 90, 117, 187, 208, 209 foll.,
  245, 247, 278

Medici, Alessandro de', i. 315-327, ii. 83, 248, 251, 255:
  Battista de', i. 188:
  Bernardo de', i. 180:
  Bianca de', ii. 233:
  Casa de', i. 317:
  Catherine de', i. 316, ii. 76, 255:
  Clarina de', i. 182:
  Claudia de', ii. 77:
  Cosimo de', i. 319, ii. 225 note, iii. 67, 247:
  Cosimo (the younger) de', i. 326, 330, 340, ii. 255, 257:
  Ferdinand de', (Cardinal), ii. 93:
  Francesco di Raffaello de', i. 321, ii. 93, 104:
  Gabrio de', i. 188:
  Gian Giacomo de' (Il Medeghino), i. 179-188, iii. 67:
  Giovanni de', ii. 215, 216, 239, 244, 245, 246 (see also Leo X.):
  Giovanni de' (general), ii. 249:
  Giuliano, son of Piero de', ii. 83, 226, 232, 233, 239, 318, 334:
  Giuliano de' (Duke of Nemours), ii. 239, 244, 245, 247:
  Giulio dei (see Clement VII.):
  Ippolito de', i. 316-319, ii. 83, 248, 251, 255:
  Isabella de', ii. 93, 104, 105:
  Lorenzino de', i. 315, 319-335, 338, 341-344, ii. 83, 255:
  Lorenzo de' (the Magnificent), ii. 67, 184, 185, 187, 216, 218,
    226 foll., 305, 311, 325, 326, 330, iii. 101:
  Lorenzo de' (Duke of Urbino) (see Urbino):
  Maddalena de', ii. 239:
  Piero de', ii. 184, 191, 192, 226, 227, 238, 328, iii. 101:
  Pietro de', iii. 247:
  Salvestro de', ii. 208

Mediterranean, the, i. 2; ii. 145

Melfi, iii. 300

Melo of Bari, iii. 299

Meloria, the, iii. 253

Menaggio, i. 181, 186, 188

Menander, iii. 72

Mendelssohn, i. 10

Mendrisio, i. 122, 175

Menoetes, iii. 319

Mentone, i. 83-93, 94, 98, 102, 103, 106; iii. 250

Menzoni, ii. 285

Mer de Glace, iii. 282

Meran, i. 111

Mercatello, Gentile, ii. 70

Mesomedes, iii. 201

Messina, iii. 288, 292 and note, 301

Mestre, i. 339

Metaurus, or Metauro, the, ii. 38, 58

Mevania (Bevagna), ii. 38

Michelangelo. (See Buonarroti, Michel Angelo)

Michelhorn, ii. 127

Michelozzi, Michelozzo, iii. 96

Middleton, Thomas, ii. 267

Mignucci, Francesco, ii. 90

Milan, i. 14, 19, 20, 50, 121, 124, 136, 152-161, 168, 178, 180, 184,
  195, 203, 212, 213, 223 foll.; ii. 185, 186, 190, 191, 224; iii. 151
  note, 253, 348

Milan, Dukes of, i. 49, 149, 180, 186, 200; ii. 214

Millet, iii. 77

Milton, ii. 160, 258, 262, 263, 269, 274; iii. 25, 35, 37, 38, 158, 169,
  342

Mino da Fiesole, ii. 81

Mirandola, Duchy of, i. 185; ii. 168

Mirandola, the Counts of, i. 202

Mirandola, Pico della, ii. 21

Mirano, i. 294

Miseno, iii. 238, 239, 242

Mnesicles, iii. 343

Mnestheus, iii. 319

Modena, i. 170, 172; ii. 168, 169, 221

Molsa, Francesco Maria, i. 326

Monaco, i. 92, 102

Mondello, iii. 294

Monreale, ii. 10; iii. 291, 311-314

Mont Blanc, i. 14, 126, 134:
  Cenis, ii. 174:
  Cervin, i. 169:
  Chétif, i. 14:
  Finsteraarhorn, i. 169:
  Genêvre, ii. 193:
  S. Michel, ii. 167:
  de la Saxe, i. 14:
  Solaro, iii. 230:
  Ventoux, ii. 22

Montalcino, iii. 76, 79, 92

Montalembert, iii. 249

Montalto, Cardinal, ii. 90, 91, 95, 98, 103 (see also Sixtus V.)

Montdragon, i. 68

Monte Adamello, i. 174, ii. 168:
  Amiata, iii. 42, 69, 76, 80, 90, 91, 93, 103, 104, 106, 108:
  d'Asdrubale, ii. 66:
  Aureo, iii. 253:
  Calvo, ii. 55:
  Carboniano, ii. 168:
  Cassino, iii. 248:
  Catini, iii. 4:
  Catria, ii. 66, 68, 69, iii. 111:
  Cavallo, ii. 94:
  Cetona, ii. 51, iii. 90, 91:
  Coppiolo, ii. 64:
  Delle Celle, ii. 168:
  di Disgrazia, i. 64:
  Epomeo, iii. 234, 236, 237-240, 241:
  Fallonica, iii. 103, 110:
  Gargano, iii. 299:
  Generoso, i. 121-132, 173:
  Leone, i. 174:
  Nerone, ii. 66:
  Nuovo, iii. 242:
  Oliveto, i. 166, ii. 82, iii. 8, 69, 73, 74 foll., 151 note:
  d'Oro, i. 105, 111:
  Pellegrino, ii. 176, iii. 294:
  Rosa, i. 8, 18, 105, 125, 126, 129, 134, 169:
  Rosso, iii. 279:
  Rotondo, i. 111, ii. 33:
  Salvadore, i. 125, 128:
  Soracte, ii. 51:
  Viso, i. 126, 134, 169, 174

Montefalco, ii. 35-37, 39, 45, 46

Montefeltro family, ii. 62, 64, 66, 69-72

Montefeltro, Federigo di, i. 207, 208

Montefeltro, Giovanna, ii. 73

Montélimart, i. 68

Montepulciano, ii. 50, 214; iii. 68, 69, 77, 87-102, 109, 110

Montferrat, Boniface, Marquis of, i. 202

Monti della Sibilla, ii. 46

Monza, i. 199

Moors, the, i. 85, 94; iii. 296, 299, 301

Morbegno, i. 49, 51, 64, 186

Morea, the, ii. 18; iii. 339

Morris, William, ii. 271

Morteratsch, the, i. 56

Mozart, i. 223, 227, 229, 231-237, 249; ii. 153

Mühlen, ii. 128

Mulhausen, i. 1

Murano, i. 268, 282, 333; ii. 1

Murillo, ii. 153

Mürren, i. 9, 11, 14

Musset, De, i. 342

Mussulmans, iii. 290, 291, 294 note, 302, 305, 307, 316

Naples, ii. 185, 188, 189, 191, 193, 234, 282; iii. 221, 231, 239, 243,
  253, 254, 256, 270, 276, 289, 317 note

Naples, Queens of, i. 79

Napoleon Buonaparte, i. 50, 106, 118, 119, 120

Narni, i. 86; ii. 34, 38

Nash, Thomas, ii. 265

Nassaus, the, i. 79

Navone, Signor Giulio, iii. 4 note

Naxos, iii. 288

Negro, Abbate de, iii. 78, 79

Nera, the, ii. 34, 37, 46

Nero, i. 135; iii. 156, 164

Neroni, Diotisalvi, ii. 226, 256

Niccolini, i. 342

Niccolo da Bari, S., iii. 238

Niccolo da Uzzano, ii. 215

Nice, i. 83, 106; iii. 250

Nicholas II., iii. 300

Nicholas V., ii. 28, 187, 236

Nicholas the Pisan, iii. 260

Nicolosi, iii. 283

Nikias, iii. 288, 324, 326, 327

Nile, the, iii. 190, 201, 205

Niolo, i. 112, 115

Nisi, Messer Nicholò di, iii. 2, 3

Nismes, i. 74-77

Noel, Mr. Roden, i. 10

Norcia, ii. 35, 46; iii. 92

Normans (in Sicily), iii. 290 foll.

Novara, i. 19, 124

Oberland valleys, i. 12

Oddantonio, Duke of Urbino, ii. 70

Oddi family, the, iii. 113, 119, 122, 134

Odoacer, ii. 2

Offamilio, iii. 311

Oglio, the, iii. 6

Olgiati, i. 341

Oliverotto da Fermo, ii. 47, 48

Ombrone, the, iii. 108; Val d', iii. 90

Oortman, ii. 149

Orange, i. 68, 69

Orange, Prince of, i. 79, 316; ii. 253, 254

Orcagna, iii. 36

Orcia, the, iii. 104, 108

Ordelaffi, Cicco and Pino, i. 202

Origen, iii. 211, 219, 220

Orlando, ii. 42, 43

Ornani, the, i. 114

Orpheus, ii. 346-364

Orsini, the, ii. 47, 91, 157

Orsini, Alfonsina, ii. 239:
  Cardinal, ii. 47:
  Clarice, ii. 227:
  Francesco, ii. 48:
  Giustina, iii. 125:
  Lodovico, ii. 99, 100, 101, 104, 105, 108:
  Paolo, ii. 47, 48:
  Paolo Giordano (see Bracciano, Duke of):
  Troilo, i. 327 note, ii. 93 and note:
  Virginio (see Bracciano, second Duke of)

Orta, i. 173

Ortler, the, i. 126; ii. 168

Ortygia, iii. 321, 326, 327

Orvieto, i. 86; ii. 51, 136, 362; iii. 5, 82, 111, 137-154

Otho I., ii. 169

Otho III., ii. 15

Otranto, ii. 235

'Ottimati,' the, ii. 242 foll., 251, 254, 255, 257

Overbeck, iii. 187

Ovid, ii. 338, 344; iii. 149, 268, 320, 341 note 1

Padua, i. 152, 197, 260; ii. 41, 98, 99, 101, 104, 168, 218, 221; iii. 6

Pæstum, iii. 250, 259, 261-269

Paganello, Conte, ii. 102

Paglia, the, iii. 137

Painter, William, ii. 117, 265, 272

Palermo, ii. 10; iii. 252, 290-318

Palestrina, iii. 37

Palladio, i. 75, 256; ii. 29

Pallavicino, Matteo, ii. 91

Palma, i. 263, 269

Palmaria, ii. 142

Palmer, Richard, Bishop of Syracuse, iii. 306 note

Pancrates, iii. 201, 204, 205

Panizzi, ii. 43

Panormus, iii. 291

Pantellaria, iii. 294 note

Paoli, General, i. 111, 115

Paris, i. 20

Parker, ii. 266

Parma, i. 163; ii. 131, 147-162, 168, 180, 184, 196

Parma, Duke of, ii. 76

Parmegiano, ii. 150, 158, 159

Parmenides, iii. 171, 173

Passerini, Silvio (Cardinal of Cortona), ii. 251

Passerini da Cortona, Cardinal, i. 316

Passignano, ii. 48

Pasta, Dr., i. 123, 124 note

Patmore, Coventry, iii. 136

Patrizzi, Patrizio, iii. 72

Paul III., i. 318; ii. 88; iii. 120, 133

Pausanias, iii. 207

Pavia, i. 146-151, 158, 176, 184, 189, 198, 212, 351; ii. 182

Pavia, Cardinal of, ii. 75

Pazzi, Francesco, ii. 232, 233, 256, 335

Pazzi, Guglielmo, ii. 233

Peiræeus, iii. 357

Pelestrina, i. 258

Pelusium, iii. 189

Pembroke, Countess of, ii. 265

Penna, Jeronimo della, iii. 124

Pentelicus, i. 210

Pepin, ii. 2

Peretti family, ii. 90, 94

Peretti, Camilla, ii. 90, 98

Peretti, Francesco, ii. 90, 92 foll., 103

Pericles, iii. 343, 350

Persephone, iii. 290

Persius, iii. 165, 172

Perugia, i. 188, 214, 350; ii. 35, 38, 46, 52, 163; iii. 53, 68, 92,
  111-136

Perugino, i. 149, 239; ii. 42, 57, 59, 159; iii. 114, 116, 117-119, 184

Perusia Augusta, ii. 45, 46

Peruzzi, i. 152; ii. 49

Pesaro, ii. 59, 69, 76

Pescara, Marquis of, i. 184

Petrarch, i. 72, 73, 74 and note, 86, 168; ii. 22, 261, 262, 269, 273,
  280, 303, 332, 344, 365-368; iii. 254-256, 308, 316

Petrucci, Pandolfo, ii. 47; iii. 82

Phædrus, iii. 188, 351

Pheidias, i. 239, 246; iii. 155, 346, 349

Philippus, iii. 319

Philistis, Queen, iii. 337

Philostratus, ii. 293

Phlegræan plains, iii. 235, 239

Phoenicians, iii. 290, 291, 335

Piacenza, i. 142-144, 195, 340; ii. 180, 197

'Piagnoni,' the, ii. 253, 254

Piccinino, Jacopo, ii. 234

Piccinino, Niccolò, i. 207; ii. 70

Piccolomini family, iii. 107

Piccolomini, Æneas Sylvius, ii. 23 (see also Pius II.)

Piccolomini, Ambrogio, iii. 72, 74

Piedmont, i. 129

Pienza, iii. 77, 92, 102, 104-107

Piero della Francesca, ii. 72, 322

Piero Delle Vigne, iii. 316

Pietra Rubia, ii. 64

Pietra Santa, ii. 238

Pietro di Cardona, Don, i. 158

Pignatta, Captain, i. 319

Pindar, iii. 162, 215, 289, 332

Pinturicchio, Bernardo, ii. 42; iii. 62, 105, 114

Piranesi, i. 77; ii. 181

Pisa, i. 340; ii. 170, 203, 211, 214, 239, 244; iii. 145, 253, 304, 311

Pisani, the, ii. 30; iii. 71

Pisani, Vittore, i. 259

Pisano, Andrea, iii. 144

Pisano, Giovanni, iii. 112, 144

Pisano, Niccola, ii. 170; iii. 144, 146

Pisciadella, i. 60

Pistoja, ii. 281, 283, 287

Pitré, Signor, ii. 281 note

Pitta, Luca, ii. 226, 256

Pitz d'Aela, ii. 127

Pitz Badin, ii. 130

Pitz Languard, i. 55

Pitz Palu, i. 56

Pius II., i. 202; ii. 18; iii. 62, 104, 105

Pius IV., i. 182, 188

Pius IX., iii. 196

Placidia, Galla, ii. 8, 11

Planta, i. 49

Plato, i. 249; iii. 337, 341, 351, 352, 353

Pletho, Gemisthus, ii. 19 and note

Plinies, the, i. 177

Plutarch, iii. 199

Po, the, i. 50, 124, 134; ii. 1, 168; iii. 94

Poggio. (See Bracciolini, Poggio)

Polenta, Francesca da, ii. 15

Politian, iii. 102

Poliziano, Angelo, ii. 233, 237, 273, 305, 306, 308, 309, 312, 314, 318,
  322, 323, 324, 334, 335, 338, 340, 342-344, 345-364; iii. 101

Polyphemus, i. 91

Pompeii, iii. 232, 244

Pompey, iii. 189

Pontano, iii. 242, 243 note

Ponte, Da, i. 227, 236

Pontremoli, i. 340; ii. 133, 183, 194

Pontresina, i. 49, 53, 55

Pope, Alexander, i. 6; ii. 273; iii. 172

Porcari, Stefano, ii. 236

Porcellio, ii. 18

Porlezza, i. 184

Portici, iii. 232

Porto d' Anzio, iii. 273

Porto Fino, ii. 142

Porto Venere, ii. 140-142

Portogallo, Cardinal di, iii. 98

Portus Classis, ii. 1, 8, 11, 12

Poschiavo, i. 49, 60

Poseidonia, iii. 261 foll.

Posilippo, iii. 231, 270, 309

Poussin (cited), i. 262

Poveglia, i. 257

Pozzuoli, iii. 232, 241, 242, 243

Prato, ii. 244, 245

Procida, iii. 238, 239, 242

Promontogno, ii. 130

Provence, i. 68-82

Provence, Counts of, i. 79

Psyttaleia, iii. 358

Ptolemy, iii. 205

Puccini (Medicean) party, the, ii. 222

Pulci, ii. 269, 270

Pythagoras, ii. 24

Quattro Castelli, ii. 165, 171

Quirini, the, i. 331

Rabelais, iii. 161

Radicofani, iii. 69, 90, 91, 103, 106, 111

Ragatz, i. 65

Raimond, Count of Provence, iii. 305

Raimondi, Carlo, ii. 150

Rainulf, Count, iii. 299, 300

Raleigh, Sir Walter, ii. 264

Rametta, iii. 302

Rapallo, iii. 256

Raphael, i. 138-140, 149, 152, 239, 266; ii. 27, 37, 46, 56, 82, 83, 85,
  126, 147, 152, 159; iii. 35, 114, 117, 123, 129, 141, 145, 146, 227, 228

Ravello, iii. 259

Ravenna, i. 160; ii. 1-13, 75, 244; iii. 315

Raymond, iii. 52, 53

Recanati, ii. 63

Redi, iii. 95

Reggio d'Emilia, ii. 165, 167-169, 196; iii. 288

Regno, the, i. 196

Rembrandt, i. 345; ii. 156, 275

René of Anjou, King, i. 202

Reni, Guido, ii. 86

Rhætia, i. 49

Rhætikon, the, i. 29

Rhine, the, i. 2

Rhone, the, i. 70, 71, 76, 78

Riario, Girolamo, ii. 231, 232

Ricci, the, ii. 213

Ridolfi, Cardinal, i. 318

Ridolfi, Pietro, iii. 11

Rienzi, i. 70

Rieti, valley of, ii. 34

Rimini, i. 350, 353; ii. 14-31, 60, 70

Rimini, Francesca da, ii. 270

Riviera, the, i. 2, 97, 104; ii. 143

Riviera, mountains of, ii. 142

Robbia, Luca della, ii. 29

Robustelli, Jacopo, i. 61

Rocca d' Orcia, iii. 106, 108

Roccabruna, i. 83, 91, 92

Rodari, Bernardino, i. 175

Rodari, Jacopo, i. 175

Rodari, Tommaso, i. 175, 176

Roger of Hauteville, iii. 295 and note, 296 foll.

Roger (the younger) of Hauteville, King of Sicily, iii. 252, 253, 293,
  305, 307-311, 318

Rogers, Samuel, ii. 270

Roland, ii. 42, 43

Roma, Antonio da, i. 328, 329

Romagna, ii. 16, 73, 185, 187, 199

Romano, i. 197

Romano, Giulio, i. 243

Rome, i. 2, 49, 68, 75, 139; ii. 10, 32, 88, 89, 187, 259; iii. 22
  foll., 85, 156, 323

Ronco, the, ii. 1, 10

Rossellino, Bernardo, iii. 62, 105, 106

Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, ii. 262, 263, 270; iii. 1, 3, 17 foll.

Rousseau, i. 5, 6; ii. 27; iii. 157

Rovere, Francesco della. (See Sixtus IV.)

Rovere, Francesco Maria (Duke of Urbino). (See Urbino)

Rovere, Giovanni della, ii. 73

Rovere, Livia della, ii. 77

Rovere, Vittoria della, ii. 78

Rubens, i. 345

Rubicon, the, ii. 14

Rucellai family, ii. 28

Rumano, i. 204

Rusca, Francesco, i. 177

Ruskin, Mr., i. 10, 125

Rydberg, Victor, iii. 224 note, 227

Sabine Mountains, ii. 32, 33, 39, 88

Sacchetti, iii. 12, 13, 16

Saintrè, Jehan de, iii. 13

Salamis, iii. 358, 362

Salerno, iii. 250, 262, 268, 299

Salimbeni, house of, iii. 7

Salimbeni, Niccolò de', iii. 3

Salis, Von, family, i. 50

Salis, Von, i. 49

Salò, ii. 98

Salviati, Cardinal, i. 318

Salviati, Francesco (Archbishop of Pisa), ii. 232, 233

Salviati (Governor of Cortona), ii. 50

Salviati, Madonna Lucrezia, i. 320

Salviati, Madonna Maria, i. 320

Samaden, i. 48, 53, 55

Samminiato, iii. 98

Sampiero, i. 112, 113-115

Sanazzaro, ii. 264 and note 1

S. Agnese, i. 85

S. Erasmo, i. 256, 283

S. Gilles, i. 81, 82

S. Pietro, i. 258

S. Spirito, i. 257

San Gemignano, iii. 3, 59

San Germano, iii. 246, 305

San Giacomo, i. 63

San Lazzaro, i. 280

San Leo, ii. 64

San Marino, ii. 60, 62-64

San Martino, i. 173

San Michele, i. 268

San Moritz, i. 55, 58

San Nicoletto, i. 283, 286

San Quirico, iii. 77, 92, 102, 107-110

San Remo, i. 87 note, 93-98, 105; iii. 256

San Rocco, i. 265

San Romolo, i. 98-100, 103

San Terenzio, ii. 143, 144

Sangarius, the, iii. 187

Sanseverino, Roberto, i. 158

Sansovino, i. 337 note, ii. 17 note

Sant' Elisabetta, i. 283

Santa Agata, ii. 64, 90

Santa Lucia, iii. 232

Santa Maura, iii. 363.

Santi, Giovanni, ii. 56, 59

Sappho, iii. 363

Saracens, iii. 252, 263, 294, note, 302 foll., 308, 321

Sardinia, ii. 189, 286

Saronno, i. 137, 156, 161-166

Sarto, Andrea del, i. 345; iii. 100

Sarzana, ii. 131, 134, 143, 183, 238

Sassella, i. 48, 62

Sasso Rancio, i. 173

Savonarola, i. 171; ii. 122, 193, 237, 238, 239-242

Scala, Can Grande della, iii. 6

Scaletta, pass of the, i. 49

Scaligers, the, iii. 318

Scalza, Ippolito, iii. 147

Scandiano, Count of, ii. 67

Scheffer, Ary, ii. 15

Scheggia, ii. 55

Schiahorn, the, i. 54

Schwartzhorn, the, i. 54

Schyn, ii. 127

Sciacca, iii. 281

Scolastica, S., iii. 73

Scott, Sir Walter, ii. 273

Sebastian, S., iii. 184, 185

Seehorn, the, i. 29

Seelisberg, i. 14

Segeste, iii. 291, 319, 335

Selinus, iii. 291, 333, 335, 337

Serafino, Fra, ii. 83

Serbelloni, Cecilia, i. 180

Sergestus, iii. 319

Serio, river, i. 204

Sermini, iii. 68

Sesia, the, i. 19

Sestri, i. 103 note; iii. 250

Sforza family, the, i. 146, 155, 179, 184, 185, 197, 244

Sforza, Alessandro, i. 202, ii. 72:
  Battista, ii. 72:
  Beatrice, i. 176:
  Cardinal Ascanio, ii. 91:
  Francesco, i. 149, 181, 186, 198, 200, 203, 208, ii. 17 note, 71,
    185, 224:
  Galeazzo, ii. 236:
  Galeazzo Maria, ii. 185, 230, 236, iii. 117:
  Giovanni Galeazzo, ii. 185, 192:
  Ippolita, i. 155:
  Lodovico, i. 149, ii. 185, 186, 191, 193, 194, 236, 238:
  Polissena, ii. 17:
  Zenobia, iii. 124, 125, 128

Shakspere, ii. 258, 262, 263, 267, 268, 271-274, 277, 335; iii. 36, 37,
  166, 280, 282

Shelley, i. 5, 10, 25, 26, 87, 166, 232; ii. 138, 140, 143-145, 270,
  271, 273; iii. 172, 186

Shirley, the dramatist, ii. 159

Sicily, i. 103 note; ii. 66, 189, 276, 281 note, 282; iii. 252, 279
  foll., 286, 288, 290 foll., 319 foll.

Sidney, Sir Philip, ii. 263, 264, 266

Siena, i. 166, 187, 192; ii. 42, 185, 214, 281, 286; iii. 1, 7, 10, 12,
  41-65, 66 foll., 92, 105 et passim

Sigifredo, ii. 168

Signorelli, i. 239; ii. 49, 362; iii. 35, 81, 82, 85, 145, 147-152, 154

Silarus, the, iii. 264

Silchester, i. 214

Silvaplana, ii. 128, 129

Silvretta, the, i. 31

Silz Maria, ii. 129

Simaetha, i. 140

Simeto, the, iii. 279, 304

Simon Magus, iii. 216

Simonetta, La Bella, ii. 318, 322, 335, 343

Simonides, iii. 167

Simplon, the, i. 19, 125

Sinigaglia, ii. 48; iii. 131

Sirmione, i. 173

Sixtus IV., i. 221; ii. 73, 231, 232, 234, 235

Sixtus V., ii. 90, 95, 98

Smyrna, iii. 212

Sobieski, Clementina, ii. 83

Socrates, iii. 155, 329, 351, 352, 353, 354

Soderini, Alessandro, i. 332, 334, 335, 338, 341

Soderini, Maria, i. 320

Soderini, Niccolo, ii. 226

Soderini, Paolo Antonio, ii. 192

Soderini, Piero, ii. 243-245

Sodoma, i. 141, 152, 165, 166; iii. 63, 81, 82-84, 184

Sogliano, ii. 15

Solari, Andrea, i. 148

Solari, Cristoforo (Il Gobbo), i. 149, 176

Solferino, i. 127

Solon, ii. 163; iii. 172, 341

Solza, i. 194

Sondrio, i. 49, 61, 63

Sophocles, ii. 160, 161; iii. 215, 287, 345 notes 1 and 2, 350

Sordello, i. 80

Sorgues river, i. 72

Sorrento, iii. 233, 250, 276-278

Sozzo, Messer, iii. 10, 11

Sparta, iii. 323

Spartian, iii. 192, 193, 197

Spartivento, iii. 288

Spello, ii. 35, 38, 39, 41-43, 45, 46

Spenser, Edmund, ii. 258, 262, 264

Spezzia, Bay of, ii. 135, 146

Splügen, i. 64

Splügen, the, i. 50, 53, 64; valley of, i. 184

Spolentino, hills of, iii. 92

Spoleto, ii. 35, 38, 45, 46, 170; iii. 111, 120

Sprecher von Bernegg, i. 49

Stabiæ, iii. 246

Staffa, Jeronimo della, iii. 125

Stelvio, the, i. 9, 50, 61

Stephen des Rotrous, Archbishop of Palermo, iii. 306 note 1

Stimigliano, ii. 34

Strabo, iii. 206

Strozzi family, ii. 75

Strozzi, Filippo, i. 318, 321, 326, 344

Strozzi (Governor of Cortona), ii. 50

Strozzi, Palla degli, ii. 222

Strozzi, Pietro, i. 332

Strozzi, Ruberto, i. 331

Suardi, Bartolommeo, i. 154

Subasio, ii. 45

Suetonius, i. 134-136; iii. 164, 196, 199, 272, 274

Sufenas, iii. 209

Superga, the, i. 133, 134

Surrey, Earl of, ii. 261-263, 271

Susa, vale of, i. 134

Süss, i. 55

Swinburne, Mr., ii. 270, 273

Switzerland, i. 1-67, 105, 129

Sybaris, ancient Hellenic city of, ii. 2 note; iii. 261

Syracuse, i. 87 note; iii. 262, 279, 288, 290, 291, 294 note, 304,
  320-331

Tacitus, iii. 199

Tadema, Alma, i. 210

Tanagra, iii. 209

Tancred de Hauteville, iii. 294, 295

Taormina, iii. 287, 288, 304

Tarentum, iii. 263

Tarentum, Prince of, i. 79

Tarlati, Guido, iii. 74

Taro, the, i. 340; ii. 132, 183, 184, 195

Tarsus, iii. 212

Tasso, ii. 83, 264, 265, 267, 269, 273, 274, 280, 332, 337, 343

Tavignano, the, valley of, i. 111

Tedaldo, Count of Reggio and Modena, ii. 169

Tennyson, Lord, i. 4; ii. 23, 270, 273, 296; iii. 173

Terlan, i. 63

Terni, ii. 34, 253

Terracina, i. 318; iii. 235

Tertullian, iii. 219

Theocritus, i. 84, 94; ii. 304, 330, 335, 337, 355; iii. 319

Theodoric the Ostrogoth, ii. 2, 10, 11, 13

Theognis, iii. 172

Thomas à Kempis (quoted), i. 98, 100

Thomas of Sarzana, ii. 28

Thrasymene, ii. 45, 46, 48; iii. 90, 91, 101, 111

Thucydides, iii. 321-324, 327, 328, 331

Thuillier, Prefect, i. 109

Tiber, the, ii. 33, 46; iii. 112

Tiberio d'Assisi, ii. 35

Tiberius, ii. 14; iii. 271-274

Ticino, the, i. 124, 211

Tieck, F., iii. 224

Timoleon, iii. 288, 290, 304, 319, 337

Tintoretto, i. 138, 236, 262-267, 269, 281; ii. 147, 156; iii. 158

Tinzenhorn, ii. 127

Tirano, i. 49-53, 61, 62

Titian, i. 337 note; ii. 76, 83, 130, 153, 154; iii. 180, 247

Titus, iii. 190

Tivoli, i. 87 note; ii. 32; iii. 189, 198, 201, 210

Todi, iii. 111

Tofana, i. 268, 283

Tolomei family, iii. 69

Tolomei, Cristoforo, iii. 70

Tolomei, Fulvia, iii. 70

Tolomei, Giovanni, iii. 8, 70 (see also Bernardo)

Tolomei, Nino, iii. 8, 70

Tommaseo, ii. 283

Tommaso di Nello, iii. 11

Torcello, i. 171, 172, 282; ii. 1

Torre dell' Annunziata, iii. 232

Torre del Greco, iii. 232

Torrensi family, the, iii. 119

Toscanella, iii. 109

Toschi, Paolo, ii. 148-150

Totila, iii. 81

Tourneur, ii. 267

Trajan, ii. 14; iii. 188

Trani, iii. 311

Trapani, iii. 319

Trasimeno, ii. 50

Trastevere, ii. 96

Trebanio, ii. 19

Trelawny, ii. 144, 146

Tremazzi, Ambrogio, i. 327 note

Trento, i. 340

Trepievi, the, i. 184, 188

Trescorio, i. 204

Tresenda, i. 63

Trevi, ii. 35, 39, 46, 97; iii. 111

Treviglio, i. 209

Treviso, iii. 6

Trezzo, i. 194

Trinacria, iii. 290

Trinci family, ii. 38, 41

Trinci, Corrado, ii. 40

Troina, iii. 302, 303

Tuldo, Nicola, iii. 53-55

Tunis, iii. 275

Turin, i. 134, 138, 348

Turner, J.M.W., iii. 138, 364

Tuscany, i. 187; ii. 45, 169, 234, 244, 276 foll.; iii. 41 foll., 68,
  104

Tuscany, Grand Duke of, ii. 99, 170, 256

Tyrol, the, i. 89

Tyrrhenian sea, the, ii. 183

Ubaldo, S., ii. 54

Uberti, Fazio degli, iii. 10, 16

Udine, i. 351

Ugolini, Messer Baccio, ii. 362

Uguccione della Faggiuola, ii. 136; iii. 4

Ulysses, iii. 288, 320

Umbria, i. 149; ii. 32-59; iii. 68, 119 note 1

Urban II., iii. 304

Urban IV., ii. 177; iii. 141, 142

Urban V., i. 70; ii. 78

Urbino, i. 203; ii. 45, 58, 66-69, 74, 78-87, 185

Urbino, Counts of, ii. 15, 70

Urbino, Federigo, Duke of, i. 203, 207, 316, 317, 326; ii. 48, 66-68,
  70-73, 78-81, 231

Urbino, Prince Federigo-Ubaldo of, ii. 77, 78

Urbino, Francesco Maria della Rovere, Duke of, ii. 73-76, 85

Urbino, Francesco Maria II., Duke of, ii. 76-78, 86

Urbino, Guidobaldo, Duke of, ii. 73, 74, 79, 80, 83, 84

Urbino, Guidobaldo II., Duke of, ii. 76, 82

Urbino, Lorenzo de' Medici, Duke of, ii. 75, 76, 247

Valdarno, ii. 218

Valdelsa, iii. 69

Valentinian, iii. 191

Valentino, ii. 64

Valperga, Ardizzino, i. 158

Valsassina, the, i. 184

Valtelline, the, i. 35, 48-51, 53, 58, 61, 64, 180, 184, 186, 188; ii.
  168; iii. 94

Valturio, ii. 18

Varallo, i. 19, 136, 138, 164

Varani, the, ii. 47, 71

Varano, Giulia, ii. 76

Varano, Madonna Maria, ii. 85

Varano, Venanzio, ii. 85

Varchi, i. 320-322, 325, 326; iii. 45 note

Varenna, i. 173, 186

Varese, i. 144;
  Lake of, i. 124, 173, 174

Vasari, Giorgio, ii. 26, 28; iii. 83, 84, 145

Vasco de Gama, ii. 237

Vasto, Marquis del, i. 187

Vaucluse, i. 72-74

Velino, the, ii. 34, 46

Venice, i. 44, 167, 171, 200, 201, 206, 254-315; ii. 1, 2 and note,
  16, 42, 102; iii. 253, 309, 317 note, et passim

Ventimiglia, i. 102

Vercelli, i. 136-142; ii. 173; iii. 82

Vergerio, Pier Paolo, i. 331

Verne, M. Jules, ii. 139

Vernet, Horace, i. 71

Verocchio, i. 193, 207

Verona, i. 212; ii. 168; iii. 6, 318

Verucchio, ii. 62

Vespasian, ii. 57

Vespasiano, Florentine bookseller, ii. 80

Vesuvius, iii. 230, 232, 234, 235, 239, 242, 245, 276

Vettori, Paolo, ii. 245

Via Mala, the, ii. 57

Viareggio, ii. 145, 146

Vicenza, i. 75, 328-330

Vico, i. 109, 112, 115

Vico Soprano, ii. 129

Victor, Aurelius, iii. 193, 195

Vietri, iii. 250

Vignole, i. 283

Villa, i. 48, 62

Villafranca, i. 83

Villani, Giovanni, iii. 8

Villani, Matteo, ii. 208; iii. 8, 16

Villeneuve, i. 70

Villon, iii. 1

Vinci, Leonardo da, i. 139, 148, 154, 349; ii. 19, 21, 27, 50, 152, 156;
  iii. 82, 228, 238

Vinta, M. Francesco, i. 330

Vire, Val de, ii. 291

Virgil, i. 246; ii. 6, 63, 285, 304, 338, 343; iii. 75, 144, 155, 162,
  172, 180, 181, 186, 215, 268, 309, 320

Visconti family, the, i. 146, 181, 195; ii. 16, 178, 185, 224, 278; iii.
  119, 253

Visconti, Astore, i, 181, 182

Visconti, Bianca Maria, i. 199

Visconti, Ermes, i. 157

Visconti, Filippo Maria, i. 195, 197-199; ii. 215, 224, 235

Visconti, Gian Galeazzo, i. 149, 152; ii. 213

Visconti, Gian Maria, ii. 236

Vitelli, the, ii. 41, 47, 71

Vitelli, Alessandro, ii. 250

Vitelli, Giulia, iii. 132

Vitelli, Vitellozzo, ii. 47, 48

Vitellius, iii. 164

Vittoli, the, i. 114, 115

Vivarini, i. 269

Voltaire, iii. 161

Volterra, ii. 163, 214, 231; iii. 66, 69, 79, 92, 103

Volterra, Bebo da, i. 328-330, 333-341

Volterrano, Andrea, i. 336

Volturno, iii. 239

Volumnii, the, iii. 112

Walker, Frederick, ii. 129; iii. 76

Walter of Brienne. (See Athens, Duke of)

Walter of the Mill, Archbishop of Palermo, iii. 306 note, 308

Webster, the dramatist, i. 220; ii. 103-126, 267, 271, 277

Weisshorn, the, i. 54

Whitman, Walt, ii. 24; iii. 172

Wien, i. 45

Wiesen, i. 65; ii. 127

William of Apulia, iii. 298, 299, 305

William the Bad and William the Good of Sicily, iii. 305, 306, 308, 311

Winckelman, iii. 188

Wolfgang, i. 30

Wolfswalk, the, i. 31

Wordsworth, i. 5, 6, 10, 11; ii. 262, 263, 273; iii. 172, 173

Wyatt, Sir Thomas, ii. 261, 262

Xenophanes, iii. 171, 173, 353

Xiphilinus, iii. 192

Zafferana, iii. 282, 283

Zante, iii. 363

Zeno, Carlo, i. 260

Zeus Olympius, iii. 290

Zizers, i. 65

