Selden's entrance had caused Lily an inward start of embarrassment; but his air of constraint
had the effect of restoring her self-possession, and she took at once the tone of surprise
and pleasure, wondering frankly that he should have traced her to so unlikely a place, and
asking what had inspired him to make the search.

Selden met this with an unusual seriousness: she had never seen him so little master of the
situation, so plainly at the mercy of any obstructions she might put in his way. "I wanted
to see you," he said; and she could not resist observing in reply that he had kept his wishes
under remarkable control. She had in truth felt his long absence as one of the chief bitternesses
of the last months: his desertion had wounded sensibilities far below the surface of her pride.

Selden met the challenge with directness. "Why should I have come, unless I thought I could
be of use to you? It is my only excuse for imagining you could want me."

This struck her as a clumsy evasion, and the thought gave a flash of keenness to her answer.
"Then you have come now because you think you can be of use to me?"

He hesitated again. "Yes: in the modest capacity of a person to talk things over with."

For a clever man it was certainly a stupid beginning; and the idea that his awkwardness was
due to the fear of her attaching a personal significance to his visit, chilled her pleasure
in seeing him. Even under the most adverse conditions, that pleasure always made itself felt:
she might hate him, but she had never been able to wish him out of the room. She was very near
hating him now; yet the sound of his voice, the way the light fell on his thin dark hair, the
way he sat and moved and wore his clothes--she was conscious that even these trivial things
were inwoven with her deepest life. In his presence a sudden stillness came upon her, and the
turmoil of her spirit ceased; but an impulse of resistance to this stealing influence now prompted
her to say: "It's very good of you to present yourself in that capacity; but what makes you
think I have anything particular to talk about?"

Though she kept the even tone of light intercourse, the question was framed in a way to remind
him that his good offices were unsought; and for a moment Selden was checked by it. The situation
between them was one which could have been cleared up only by a sudden explosion of feeling;
and their whole training and habit of mind were against the chances of such an explosion. Selden's
calmness seemed rather to harden into resistance, and Miss Bart's into a surface of glittering
irony, as they faced each other from the opposite corners of one of Mrs. Hatch's elephantine
sofas. The sofa in question, and the apartment peopled by its monstrous mates, served at length
to suggest the turn of Selden's reply.

"Gerty told me that you were acting as Mrs. Hatch's secretary; and I knew she was anxious to
hear how you were getting on."

Miss Bart received this explanation without perceptible softening. "Why didn't she look me
up herself, then?" she asked.

"Because, as you didn't send her your address, she was afraid of being importunate." Selden
continued with a smile: "You see no such scruples restrained me; but then I haven't as much
to risk if I incur your displeasure."

Lily answered his smile. "You haven't incurred it as yet; but I have an idea that you are going
to."

"That rests with you, doesn't it? You see my initiative doesn't go beyond putting myself at
your disposal."

"But in what capacity? What am I to do with you?" she asked in the same light tone.

Selden again glanced about Mrs. Hatch's drawing-room; then he said, with a decision which he
seemed to have gathered from this final inspection: "You are to let me take you away from here."

Lily flushed at the suddenness of the attack; then she stiffened under it and said coldly:
"And may I ask where you mean me to go?"

"Back to Gerty in the first place, if you will; the essential thing is that it should be away
from here."

The unusual harshness of his tone might have shown her how much the words cost him; but she
was in no state to measure his feelings while her own were in a flame of revolt. To neglect
her, perhaps even to avoid her, at a time when she had most need of her friends, and then suddenly
and unwarrantably to break into her life with this strange assumption of authority, was to
rouse in her every instinct of pride and self-defence.

"I am very much obliged to you," she said, "for taking such an interest in my plans; but I
am quite contented where I am, and have no intention of leaving."

Selden had risen, and was standing before her in an attitude of uncontrollable expectancy.

"That simply means that you don't know where you are!" he exclaimed.

Lily rose also, with a quick flash of anger. "If you have come here to say disagreeable things
about Mrs. Hatch----"

"It is only with your relation to Mrs. Hatch that I am concerned."

"My relation to Mrs. Hatch is one I have no reason to be ashamed of.  She has helped me to
earn a living when my old friends were quite resigned to seeing me starve."

"Nonsense! Starvation is not the only alternative. You know you can always find a home with
Gerty till you are independent again."

"You show such an intimate acquaintance with my affairs that I suppose you mean--till my aunt's
legacy is paid?"

"I do mean that; Gerty told me of it," Selden acknowledged without embarrassment. He was too
much in earnest now to feel any false constraint in speaking his mind.

"But Gerty does not happen to know," Miss Bart rejoined, "that I owe every penny of that legacy."

"Good God!" Selden exclaimed, startled out of his composure by the abruptness of the statement.

"Every penny of it, and more too," Lily repeated; "and you now perhaps see why I prefer to
remain with Mrs. Hatch rather than take advantage of Gerty's kindness. I have no money left,
except my small income, and I must earn something more to keep myself alive."

Selden hesitated a moment; then he rejoined in a quieter tone: "But with your income and Gerty's--since
you allow me to go so far into the details of the situation--you and she could surely contrive
a life together which would put you beyond the need of having to support yourself. Gerty, I
know, is eager to make such an arrangement, and would be quite happy in it----"

"But I should not," Miss Bart interposed. "There are many reasons why it would be neither kind
to Gerty nor wise for myself." She paused a moment, and as he seemed to await a farther explanation,
added with a quick lift of her head: "You will perhaps excuse me from giving you these reasons."

"I have no claim to know them," Selden answered, ignoring her tone; "no claim to offer any
comment or suggestion beyond the one I have already made. And my right to make that is simply
the universal right of a man to enlighten a woman when he sees her unconsciously placed in
a false position."

Lily smiled. "I suppose," she rejoined, "that by a false position you mean one outside of what
we call society; but you must remember that I had been excluded from those sacred precincts
long before I met Mrs. Hatch. As far as I can see, there is very little real difference in
being inside or out, and I remember your once telling me that it was only those inside who
took the difference seriously."

She had not been without intention in making this allusion to their memorable talk at Bellomont,
and she waited with an odd tremor of the nerves to see what response it would bring; but the
result of the experiment was disappointing. Selden did not allow the allusion to deflect him
from his point; he merely said with completer fulness of emphasis: "The question of being inside
or out is, as you say, a small one, and it happens to have nothing to do with the case, except
in so far as Mrs. Hatch's desire to be inside may put you in the position I call false."

In spite of the moderation of his tone, each word he spoke had the effect of confirming Lily's
resistance. The very apprehensions he aroused hardened her against him: she had been on the
alert for the note of personal sympathy, for any sign of recovered power over him; and his
attitude of sober impartiality, the absence of all response to her appeal, turned her hurt
pride to blind resentment of his interference. The conviction that he had been sent by Gerty,
and that, whatever straits he conceived her to be in, he would never voluntarily have come
to her aid, strengthened her resolve not to admit him a hair's breadth farther into her confidence.
However doubtful she might feel her situation to be, she would rather persist in darkness than
owe her enlightenment to Selden.

"I don't know," she said, when he had ceased to speak, "why you imagine me to be situated as
you describe; but as you have always told me that the sole object of a bringing-up like mine
was to teach a girl to get what she wants, why not assume that that is precisely what I am doing?"

The smile with which she summed up her case was like a clear barrier raised against farther
confidences: its brightness held him at such a distance that he had a sense of being almost
out of hearing as he rejoined: "I am not sure that I have ever called you a successful example
of that kind of bringing-up."

Her colour rose a little at the implication, but she steeled herself with a light laugh. "Ah,
wait a little longer--give me a little more time before you decide!" And as he wavered before
her, still watching for a break in the impenetrable front she presented: "Don't give me up;
I may still do credit to my training!" she affirmed.

Chapter 10

"Look at those spangles, Miss Bart--every one of 'em sewed on crooked."

The tall forewoman, a pinched perpendicular figure, dropped the condemned structure of wire
and net on the table at Lily's side, and passed on to the next figure in the line.

There were twenty of them in the work-room, their fagged profiles, under exaggerated hair,
bowed in the harsh north light above the utensils of their art; for it was something more than
an industry, surely, this creation of ever-varied settings for the face of fortunate womanhood.
Their own faces were sallow with the unwholesomeness of hot air and sedentary toil, rather
than with any actual signs of want: they were employed in a fashionable millinery establishment,
and were fairly well clothed and well paid; but the youngest among them was as dull and colourless
as the middle-aged. In the whole work-room there was only one skin beneath which the blood
still visibly played; and that now burned with vexation as Miss Bart, under the lash of the
forewoman's comment, began to strip the hat-frame of its over-lapping spangles.

To Gerty Farish's hopeful spirit a solution appeared to have been reached when she remembered
how beautifully Lily could trim hats.  Instances of young lady-milliners establishing themselves
under fashionable patronage, and imparting to their "creations" that indefinable touch which
the professional hand can never give, had flattered Gerty's visions of the future, and convinced
even Lily that her separation from Mrs. Norma Hatch need not reduce her to dependence on her
friends.

The parting had occurred a few weeks after Selden's visit, and would have taken place sooner
had it not been for the resistance set up in Lily by his ill-starred offer of advice. The sense
of being involved in a transaction she would not have cared to examine too closely had soon
afterward defined itself in the light of a hint from Mr. Stancy that, if she "saw them through,"
she would have no reason to be sorry. The implication that such loyalty would meet with a direct
reward had hastened her flight, and flung her back, ashamed and penitent, on the broad bosom
of Gerty's sympathy. She did not, however, propose to lie there prone, and Gerty's inspiration
about the hats at once revived her hopes of profitable activity. Here was, after all, something
that her charming listless hands could really do; she had no doubt of their capacity for knotting
a ribbon or placing a flower to advantage. And of course only these finishing touches would
be expected of her: subordinate fingers, blunt, grey, needle-pricked fingers, would prepare
the shapes and stitch the linings, while she presided over the charming little front shop--a
shop all white panels, mirrors, and moss-green hangings--where her finished creations, hats,
wreaths, aigrettes and the rest, perched on their stands like birds just poising for flight.

But at the very outset of Gerty's campaign this vision of the green-and-white shop had been
dispelled. Other young ladies of fashion had been thus "set-up," selling their hats by the
mere attraction of a name and the reputed knack of tying a bow; but these privileged beings
could command a faith in their powers materially expressed by the readiness to pay their shop-rent
and advance a handsome sum for current expenses. Where was Lily to find such support? And even
could it have been found, how were the ladies on whose approval she depended to be induced
to give her their patronage? Gerty learned that whatever sympathy her friend's case might have
excited a few months since had been imperilled, if not lost, by her association with Mrs. Hatch.
Once again, Lily had withdrawn from an ambiguous situation in time to save her self-respect,
but too late for public vindication.  Freddy Van Osburgh was not to marry Mrs. Hatch; he had
been rescued at the eleventh hour--some said by the efforts of Gus Trenor and Rosedale--and
despatched to Europe with old Ned Van Alstyne; but the risk he had run would always be ascribed
to Miss Bart's connivance, and would somehow serve as a summing-up and corroboration of the
vague general distrust of her. It was a relief to those who had hung back from her to find
themselves thus justified, and they were inclined to insist a little on her connection with
the Hatch case in order to show that they had been right.

Gerty's quest, at any rate, brought up against a solid wall of resistance; and even when Carry
Fisher, momentarily penitent for her share in the Hatch affair, joined her efforts to Miss
Farish's, they met with no better success. Gerty had tried to veil her failure in tender ambiguities;
but Carry, always the soul of candour, put the case squarely to her friend.

"I went straight to Judy Trenor; she has fewer prejudices than the others, and besides she's
always hated Bertha Dorset. But what HAVE you done to her, Lily? At the very first word about
giving you a start she flamed out about some money you'd got from Gus; I never knew her so
hot before. You know she'll let him do anything but spend money on his friends: the only reason
she's decent to me now is that she knows I'm not hard up.--He speculated for you, you say?
Well, what's the harm? He had no business to lose. He DIDN'T lose? Then what on earth--but
I never COULD understand you, Lily!"

The end of it was that, after anxious enquiry and much deliberation, Mrs. Fisher and Gerty,
for once oddly united in their effort to help their friend, decided on placing her in the work-room
of Mme. Regina's renowned millinery establishment. Even this arrangement was not effected without
considerable negotiation, for Mme. Regina had a strong prejudice against untrained assistance,
and was induced to yield only by the fact that she owed the patronage of Mrs. Bry and Mrs.
Gormer to Carry Fisher's influence. She had been willing from the first to employ Lily in the
show-room: as a displayer of hats, a fashionable beauty might be a valuable asset. But to this
suggestion Miss Bart opposed a negative which Gerty emphatically supported, while Mrs. Fisher,
inwardly unconvinced, but resigned to this latest proof of Lily's unreason, agreed that perhaps
in the end it would be more useful that she should learn the trade. To Regina's work-room Lily
was therefore committed by her friends, and there Mrs. Fisher left her with a sigh of relief,
while Gerty's watchfulness continued to hover over her at a distance.

Lily had taken up her work early in January: it was now two months later, and she was still
being rebuked for her inability to sew spangles on a hat-frame. As she returned to her work
she heard a titter pass down the tables. She knew she was an object of criticism and amusement
to the other work-women. They were, of course, aware of her history--the exact situation of
every girl in the room was known and freely discussed by all the others--but the knowledge
did not produce in them any awkward sense of class distinction: it merely explained why her
untutored fingers were still blundering over the rudiments of the trade.  Lily had no desire
that they should recognize any social difference in her; but she had hoped to be received as
their equal, and perhaps before long to show herself their superior by a special deftness of
touch, and it was humiliating to find that, after two months of drudgery, she still betrayed
her lack of early training.  Remote was the day when she might aspire to exercise the talents
she felt confident of possessing; only experienced workers were entrusted with the delicate
art of shaping and trimming the hat, and the forewoman still held her inexorably to the routine
of preparatory work.

She began to rip the spangles from the frame, listening absently to the buzz of talk which
rose and fell with the coming and going of Miss Haines's active figure. The air was closer
than usual, because Miss Haines, who had a cold, had not allowed a window to be opened even
during the noon recess; and Lily's head was so heavy with the weight of a sleepless night that
the chatter of her companions had the incoherence of a dream.

"I TOLD her he'd never look at her again; and he didn't. I wouldn't have, either--I think she
acted real mean to him. He took her to the Arion Ball, and had a hack for her both ways....
She's taken ten bottles, and her headaches don't seem no better--but she's written a testimonial
to say the first bottle cured her, and she got five dollars and her picture in the paper....
Mrs. Trenor's hat? The one with the green Paradise? Here, Miss Haines--it'll be ready right
off.... That was one of the Trenor girls here yesterday with Mrs. George Dorset.  How'd I know?
Why, Madam sent for me to alter the flower in that Virot hat--the blue tulle: she's tall and
slight, with her hair fuzzed out--a good deal like Mamie Leach, on'y thinner...."

On and on it flowed, a current of meaningless sound, on which, startlingly enough, a familiar
name now and then floated to the surface. It was the strangest part of Lily's strange experience,
the hearing of these names, the seeing the fragmentary and distorted image of the world she
had lived in reflected in the mirror of the working-girls' minds. She had never before suspected
the mixture of insatiable curiosity and contemptuous freedom with which she and her kind were
discussed in this underworld of toilers who lived on their vanity and self-indulgence. Every
girl in Mme. Regina's work-room knew to whom the headgear in her hands was destined, and had
her opinion of its future wearer, and a definite knowledge of the latter's place in the social
system. That Lily was a star fallen from that sky did not, after the first stir of curiosity
had subsided, materially add to their interest in her. She had fallen, she had "gone under,"
and true to the ideal of their race, they were awed only by success--by the gross tangible
image of material achievement. The consciousness of her different point of view merely kept
them at a little distance from her, as though she were a foreigner with whom it was an effort
to talk.

"Miss Bart, if you can't sew those spangles on more regular I guess you'd better give the hat
to Miss Kilroy."

Lily looked down ruefully at her handiwork. The forewoman was right: the sewing on of the spangles
was inexcusably bad. What made her so much more clumsy than usual? Was it a growing distaste
for her task, or actual physical disability? She felt tired and confused: it was an effort
to put her thoughts together. She rose and handed the hat to Miss Kilroy, who took it with
a suppressed smile.

"I'm sorry; I'm afraid I am not well," she said to the forewoman.

Miss Haines offered no comment. From the first she had augured ill of Mme. Regina's consenting
to include a fashionable apprentice among her workers. In that temple of art no raw beginners
were wanted, and Miss Haines would have been more than human had she not taken a certain pleasure
in seeing her forebodings confirmed.

"You'd better go back to binding edges," she said drily. Lily slipped out last among the band
of liberated work-women. She did not care to be mingled in their noisy dispersal: once in the
street, she always felt an irresistible return to her old standpoint, an instinctive shrinking
from all that was unpolished and promiscuous. In the days--how distant they now seemed!--when
she had visited the Girls' Club with Gerty Farish, she had felt an enlightened interest in
the working-classes; but that was because she looked down on them from above, from the happy
altitude of her grace and her beneficence. Now that she was on a level with them, the point
of view was less interesting.

She felt a touch on her arm, and met the penitent eye of Miss Kilroy. "Miss Bart, I guess you
can sew those spangles on as well as I can when you're feeling right. Miss Haines didn't act
fair to you."

Lily's colour rose at the unexpected advance: it was a long time since real kindness had looked
at her from any eyes but Gerty's.

"Oh, thank you: I'm not particularly well, but Miss Haines was right. I AM clumsy."

"Well, it's mean work for anybody with a headache." Miss Kilroy paused irresolutely. "You ought
to go right home and lay down.  Ever try orangeine?"

"Thank you." Lily held out her hand. "It's very kind of you--I mean to go home."

She looked gratefully at Miss Kilroy, but neither knew what more to say. Lily was aware that
the other was on the point of offering to go home with her, but she wanted to be alone and
silent--even kindness, the sort of kindness that Miss Kilroy could give, would have jarred
on her just then.

"Thank you," she repeated as she turned away.

She struck westward through the dreary March twilight, toward the street where her boarding-house
stood. She had resolutely refused Gerty's offer of hospitality. Something of her mother's fierce
shrinking from observation and sympathy was beginning to develop in her, and the promiscuity
of small quarters and close intimacy seemed, on the whole, less endurable than the solitude
of a hall bedroom in a house where she could come and go unremarked among other workers. For
a while she had been sustained by this desire for privacy and independence; but now, perhaps
from increasing physical weariness, the lassitude brought about by hours of unwonted confinement,
she was beginning to feel acutely the ugliness and discomfort of her surroundings. The day's
task done, she dreaded to return to her narrow room, with its blotched wallpaper and shabby
paint; and she hated every step of the walk thither, through the degradation of a New York
street in the last stages of decline from fashion to commerce.

But what she dreaded most of all was having to pass the chemist's at the corner of Sixth Avenue.
She had meant to take another street: she had usually done so of late. But today her steps
were irresistibly drawn toward the flaring plate-glass corner; she tried to take the lower
crossing, but a laden dray crowded her back, and she struck across the street obliquely, reaching
the sidewalk just opposite the chemist's door.

Over the counter she caught the eye of the clerk who had waited on her before, and slipped
the prescription into his hand. There could be no question about the prescription: it was a
copy of one of Mrs. Hatch's, obligingly furnished by that lady's chemist.  Lily was confident
that the clerk would fill it without hesitation; yet the nervous dread of a refusal, or even
of an expression of doubt, communicated itself to her restless hands as she affected to examine
the bottles of perfume stacked on the glass case before her.

The clerk had read the prescription without comment; but in the act of handing out the bottle
he paused.

"You don't want to increase the dose, you know," he remarked.  Lily's heart contracted.

What did he mean by looking at her in that way?

"Of course not," she murmured, holding out her hand.

"That's all right: it's a queer-acting drug. A drop or two more, and off you go--the doctors
don't know why."

The dread lest he should question her, or keep the bottle back, choked the murmur of acquiescence
in her throat; and when at length she emerged safely from the shop she was almost dizzy with
the intensity of her relief. The mere touch of the packet thrilled her tired nerves with the
delicious promise of a night of sleep, and in the reaction from her momentary fear she felt
as if the first fumes of drowsiness were already stealing over her.

In her confusion she stumbled against a man who was hurrying down the last steps of the elevated
station. He drew back, and she heard her name uttered with surprise. It was Rosedale, fur-coated,
glossy and prosperous--but why did she seem to see him so far off, and as if through a mist
of splintered crystals?  Before she could account for the phenomenon she found herself shaking
hands with him. They had parted with scorn on her side and anger upon his; but all trace of
these emotions seemed to vanish as their hands met, and she was only aware of a confused wish
that she might continue to hold fast to him.

"Why, what's the matter, Miss Lily? You're not well!" he exclaimed; and she forced her lips
into a pallid smile of reassurance.

"I'm a little tired--it's nothing. Stay with me a moment, please," she faltered. That she should
be asking this service of Rosedale!

He glanced at the dirty and unpropitious corner on which they stood, with the shriek of the
"elevated" and the tumult of trams and waggons contending hideously in their ears.

"We can't stay here; but let me take you somewhere for a cup of tea.  The LONGWORTH is only
a few yards off, and there'll be no one there at this hour."

A cup of tea in quiet, somewhere out of the noise and ugliness, seemed for the moment the one
solace she could bear. A few steps brought them to the ladies' door of the hotel he had named,
and a moment later he was seated opposite to her, and the waiter had placed the tea-tray between
them.

"Not a drop of brandy or whiskey first? You look regularly done up, Miss Lily. Well, take your
tea strong, then; and, waiter, get a cushion for the lady's back."

