It was a period of utter stagnation, of suspension of life, but the source remained intact,
from which, by the evolution of events and the progress of time, seeds were to spring that
only needed external pressure to force them into a growth, slow indeed but certain, and in
the end fruitful. A transition period we might call it. The theory of Roman universal domination,
by relegating to the central power all the political functions of the municipality and leaving
it only its civic ones, and these in later imperial times grudgingly and with an impaired independence,
had left it simply an administrative instead of a political division of the state. In the flush
of triumph the rough hand of the barbarian overthrew the framework of administration, and at
first failed to recognize the necessity of replacing it by any other. The passivity of the
conquered inhabitants--the cause of which has already been explained--was such that a long
period elapsed before they realized that to regain in some measure the position of local independence
that they had lost, and to free themselves from the shackles of dependence on the rural communities
in which they were placed--a dependence forced upon them by the natural development of the
new state system of their Teutonic conquerors--some common effort at organization was needful,
for purposes at least of self-defense. That this effort came from the town itself, from the
people and not from the external power of the ruler or overlord, is the fact which first makes
the history of these municipalities interesting.

There are two facts, however, which, even at this early date, begin to influence the internal
history of the communes. These are the influence which the Church,[7] through its bishops,
began to attain in the civil affairs of the country; and the idea beginning to gain currency
that the locality where a number of individuals, however wretched in state, were collected
together, would afford a safer refuge than the open country to the oppressed, the homeless
and the outcast. I will briefly consider the latter first, as of less importance, though not
unconnected with the former.

In the period of great confusion in all relations of property which ensued from the Lombard
military system of small independent landholders and a few great overlords, with a nominal
royal ownership of title, and before the feudal system was established, with its iron rules
in regular working order, constant inequalities of wealth and consequent changes in the relative
positions of individuals were sure to ensue. In practice if not in theory, might makes right
in such a state of society. The weaker goes to the wall, and the stronger gains in strength
by his downfall. Besides, it was long before the roving and predatory instinct of the barbarian
was moderated; and his weaker neighbor was the natural prey of the more powerful landholder,
an example not unfrequently set by the king himself. Now, if the weaker party remained to brave
the attack and was conquered, he was reduced to a state of villeinage or of dependence more
or less complete. If on the other hand he wished to escape this change of condition, where
was he to find refuge? The only safe asylum in those days of rapine and violence was that offered
by the Church and its precincts. The church of the greatest importance in the district, in
this early age when no walled monasteries existed, would without doubt be that situated within
the limits of the nearest town. To this haven then comes the outcast, hastily collecting his
family and all of his wealth of a portable character; the country loses a small landed proprietor,
but the town gains a citizen, a freeman, a member of the upper class.

Of course many of the fugitives who sought asylum in the towns were as low as the great numbers
of the semi-servile population, but much that was new and of a better character and intelligence,
and even a large amount of property, which later gave birth to commercial and other interests,
were introduced by members of the higher classes fleeing from their more powerful neighbors.
Also the human instinct of seeking fellowship in misfortune probably assisted in increasing
the numbers which in times of trouble flocked towards the towns as a haven of refuge and a
place to seek support. To see how they were in a measure enabled to attain these results, we
must now consider the first of the two facts mentioned above, that is, the power in civil affairs
gained by the bishops.

When the Lombards of the conquest, in their hatred of everything which savored of the old Roman
civilization, overthrew all the established offices of city government to replace them with
others of barbarian name and origin, or to leave them unfilled altogether, among the time-honored
officers of the Roman rule was one whose powers were everywhere recognized, even if at present
it is a little difficult to define with precision his duties. I refer to the defensor urbis.
This office came into prominence when Roman despotism found that it was overreaching itself
by grinding down the defenseless curiae below the margin of productiveness. The duties of the
defensor were, as his name implies, to protect the powerless inhabitants of the cities against
the exactions of the imperial ministers. He enjoyed many important privileges of jurisdiction,
and these were materially increased by the legislation of Justinian; and soon the defensor
became an important officer of the municipality.[8] What particularly concerns us is that he
was the only municipal officer who was elected not by the votes of the curia alone, but by
those of the whole people forming the municipium, including the bishop and his clergy. Now
in the period just preceding the invasion of the barbarians, the clergy alone possessed any
energy and influence; so into their hands fell the control of this new institution, and consequently
all that remained of life in the municipal system.

As in city matters these conditions remained unaltered after the coming of the Lombards, what
was more natural than that the bishops should retain their moral position of defenders of the
people, even if we admit that the form of the office fell with the old administration? To these
considerations we may add two important facts: that the office of bishop was for a long time
the only one in the election to which the people--and by this term I mean the people as a whole,
not the populus of the old laws and charters--had any voice whatever; and that the bishop,
from his spiritual position as pastor of the flock, and from his civil position as having great
legal influence in the town and being probably the only man of superior intellect interested
in the internal affairs of the community, was the proper and most effectual mediator between
the people and their temporal rulers. Hence arose that important influence of the bishops which
was to have so perceptible an effect on the subsequent development of the principles of liberty
in the communes.

To appreciate properly, and to give the true value to this power in its later progress, we
must remember one thing: that it did not have its origin by any seeking of power by either
the Roman or the Ambrosian church as a body, in any concerted effort to extend the ecclesiastical
power at the expense of the civil. It came from the spontaneous effort of the pastor, the natural
and at that time the only protector of the people, trying to save his flock from the extortion
and the injustice of their temporal rulers. In addition to this it must be remembered that
at that time the office of the bishop was the only one where even the shadow of the democratic
idea was preserved, the only one where the lowest of the people, theoretically at least, had
a voice in the election. In later times, when the feudal system becomes established in its
completeness, the position of the bishop undergoes a great change, as his relations to the
state and to society become more complex in their character; and his importance in the community,
while it at first increases, in time surely diminishes, under the influence of his double relation
of lord and vassal to some higher temporal power. When he in his turn becomes the possessor
of political power as a great baron or as head of a civitas, his interests, and consequently
his influence, are concerned with intriguing and with efforts for his own political advancement,
in many cases leaving but few traces of the old relation of "defender of the people." It is,
however, of importance to note that this decline in his prominence in civil life is commensurate
with the diminished need by the people of his protection, owing to the steady increase in the
security and independence of their position.

To sum up briefly the chief characteristics of the early and obscure period which we have been
considering, I think we can truly call it a transition period, and its history a tottering
bridge from the dead Roman municipal system of the past, to the new state and city life of
the future; from a state of society where, as we have seen, the city had changed from a political
to an administrative division, to one where the city was to prepare itself again to claim,
and eventually, by the growth of internal resources, to gain the lost function of sovereignty.
The condition of the people during this time we have seen to be wretched in the extreme; the
dismantled city but a bunch of comfortless dwellings; its inhabitants but a semi-servile population,
with a small admixture of refugees of a better class; the city occupying but a subordinate
place as part of the rural holding within whose limits it stood; whatever of wealth it contained
an easy if not a legitimate prey to the turbulent spirits, whose mutual contests kept the surrounding
country in a continual state of disturbance. The only men of any influence in the community
we have seen to be the bishops, who, while steadily gaining in rank and power, stood forth
as defenders of the people. During all this time, however, the new sap brought by the northern
conquerors has been slowly but steadily entering into and forming the constitution of the people.
The chaste and uncorrupted Northmen have by means of legitimate intermarriage with the best
of the enervated inhabitants of the land, raised up an almost new race, who combine in their
nature the humanizing effects of the old civilization with the love of independence and the
temperate virtues of the northern conquerors, a race willing to benefit by the experience of
the past, and resolved to carve out for itself a new and independent future.

PART II.

ELEMENTARY SOURCES OF MUNICIPAL UNITY IN LOMBARD AND FRANKISH TIMES.

In the second part of this paper we have to consider a period of development rather than one
of transition, of growth rather than of change. We have before us the task of tracing the advance
from a period of barbarism to one when the feudal system had obtained an almost complete domination
over the social system of Europe. Considering the principles which lay at the base of the society
of new Europe, this system is a natural, indeed an unavoidable evolution from the stage of
barbarism and social disorganization. The confusion in all social and economic relations consequent
on the combination of the old and the new elements in European life, had led to a state of
disintegration that could not continue. A new regulative force was required which would at
the same time have power sufficient to control the various warring elements with which it had
to deal and reduce them to some sort of harmony, and yet which would not in its nature be in
opposition to the decentralizing spirit and the idea of individual independence, which formed
the most marked characteristic of the dominant element of the new society. Feudalism sprang
from the midst of barbarism not by a sudden birth, but by a growth at once natural and necessary:
natural, because it was but a regulation by law of conditions produced by the character of
the people and their mode of life; necessary, because the progress of civilization was carrying
society ahead of the stage of anarchy and barbarism in which the overthrow of the old regime
had left it.

The economic changes which were produced by the transition to the new principles represented
by the feudal system, are as great and in their way as important as the political ones. When
we say that feudalism represents the transfer of the dominant power from a central head to
scattered members, from the capital to the castles, we speak of it in its most prominent, its
political character. But we must not forget that this transfer also meant a great economic
change in the organization of society: that it meant a transfer of the seat of economic importance
from the city to the country; the spirit of the times requiring, especially in the earlier
stages of the development of the institution, that the seat of wealth should follow the seat
of power. I note this now because we shall soon have occasion to consider how important a factor,
in the earliest period of the development of the cities, their entire lack of prominence in
both political and economic affairs was to prove itself. Under the old Roman system, as we
have seen, the city was the important unit: Rome was a subduer and an upbuilder of cities.
Under the new Teutonic element the land is what is brought into prominence, and the possessor
of it into power. The dominant member of society is the landowner and not the citizen. In ancient
society the "citizen" need own no land; in the modern society of the feudal age, the "gentleman"
could not be such without owning land.

This opposition between the citizen, the burgher, and the landowner, the baron, leads us to
a conclusion of the utmost importance to the whole study of city life during the middle ages.
We note the universal prevalence of the forms characteristic of the feudal system, and from
this we conclude that its principles were as universally adopted. Now this is to a certain
extent an error. There were certain institutions which from the very nature of their origin
and of the principles on which they were based, must have been, at once in their idea and in
their structure, opposed to the fundamental principle of feudalism. The Roman Church, for example,
conformed itself to the forms and customs of this system, but never lost its structural unity
and centralization, ideas founded on principles which stood in direct opposition to those of
feudalism. So it was, though perhaps in a less degree, with the cities. Though adapting themselves
in many ways to feudal forms, here the idea of democracy was as strong in its opposition to
the dominant principle of feudalism, as ever was that of centralization in the Church. The
people, in their own conception at least, stood out as an organic unity, and they considered
their rights and duties as matters which concerned them collectively, not separately, as the
commonwealth, not as individuals. Of course it was long before any such opposition assumed
a definite form and shape, before even the people became conscious of its existence; but what
I wish to point out is, that it was there in fact from the beginning, and must have formed
a structural part of the development of city life in the middle ages.

In outlining the course of the history of institutions, it is seldom that we are so fortunate
as to find definite landmarks by which we can accurately mark the chronological course of their
development. The giving of definite dates for the progress of ideas is in most cases both misleading
and illusory, as, except in instances of violent revolution, changes are apt to be gradual,
rather than immediate and arbitrary. But we can indicate the periods of progress by comparing
them with the contemporary political changes, and roughly designate their eras by the dates
of prominent political events. In doing this, however, we must always remember that the dates
given, while definite from a political standpoint, are in most cases, from an institutional
standpoint, only indicative of a more or less extended period of change. This fact being recognized,
let us proceed to examine the changes introduced into Italy by the Carlovingian rulers, and
the condition of the society upon which these changes were engrafted.

When in the year 773-774, Charlemagne, in pursuance of his idea of universal empire, and aiding
the Pope as "Patricius" of Rome, entered Lombardy with his army, took Pavia after a siege of
six months, and shut up Desiderius in a monastery, he found in Lombard society a well defined,
if not a perfectly developed system. In all their relations with other nations, the evidence
of history proves the Franks to have been a conquering rather than a colonizing race; consequently
we may expect to find that in their conquest of Lombardy, they rather gave her only new rulers
without materially interfering with the condition of the inhabitants or altering their mode
of life. The institutions of the Frankish nation were similar, in many important matters identical,
with those of their neighbors across the Alps; so the changes introduced into the Lombard system
by the Carlovingian rule are, with a few exceptions, not such as affect the integral structure
of society, but for the most part only such as refer to the character and position of the central
or ruling power.

I say with a few exceptions, for among these very exceptions are to be found certain alterations
in the government of the cities, introduced chiefly by the necessities of the system of central
government established by Charlemagne, but also partly by the claims of individuality, which
at this time first began in the cities timidly to call for recognition. The very relation of
the cities with the central power seems to me to be a much more important factor in their growth
during this period than is generally supposed; for it not only secured to their inhabitants
better chances of justice and protection from the powerful local rulers, but, bringing them,
through certain officers, into direct connection with the head of the state, added not a little
to their moral importance, a condition which in a growing community is always closely followed
by an increase of material importance. According to their size they were the seats of courts
of varying degrees of importance, and from them as centres proceeded the acts of royal officers,
both ordinary and extraordinary. Ticinum was the capital, where in Lombard times the king had
his palace.[9]

For a satisfactory study of the development of the municipal institutions we need a thorough
understanding of the organization of society at this time, and especially of the relations
which the municipal and rural communities bore to one another and to the government. I will
endeavor to give, therefore, a description of Lombard society about the close of the eighth
century, as brief as is consistent with a clear understanding of these relations, and as complete
as the great difficulties of the subject will permit, pointing out, whenever they are authentically
traceable, the changes introduced in consequence of the Carlovingian conquest.

When we reach in Lombard history the period when the power of the native kings was first overthrown
by foreign arms, we are no longer confronted by many of the problems which necessarily formed
an important part of the earlier portions of our investigation. I mean the problems which arise
in a state of society where the mass of individuals forming it is made up of two elements,
a conquering, dominant one, and a conquered, subject one. During the two centuries elapsed
since the Lombard barbarians conquered Italy, the two races, originally so different in their
ideas and in their character, so opposed in their customs and in their nature, have been slowly
but surely blending together, on the strength of common environment and by the necessities
of mutual relations: so that by the last half of the eighth century, we can truly say that
national differences, as such, have disappeared, and left behind them a single race, a combination
but still a unity. We no longer have to deal with a double nationality, with the northern conquerors
and their southern victims, with the oppressed and their oppressors. In considering the development
of the institutional life of the people, we need no longer seek for differences, but may assume
the easier task of tracing similarities. In a word, we no longer speak of Lombards and of Romans,
but describe all that remains of both by the new word Italians.

It is not within the scope of this enquiry to trace the various steps or indicate the various
influences, the civilizing effect of the Church, the restraining power of the law, by which
this complete amalgamation of two distinct races became an accomplished fact; we need only
to note that the unity of the race was achieved. Even Macchiavelli recognizes this fact and,
speaking of the time of the Carlovingian conquest, in the brief review of the history of all
Italy which forms the first part of the first book of the "Florentine History," he truly says
that, after two hundred and twenty-two years of occupation by the Lombards, "they retained
nothing of the foreigner save the name."[10]

But we must always bear in mind that it was not a process of absorption of one race by another,
but a process of combination, of amalgamation; a levelling process, by which some members of
the conquered people, by natural and economic causes, were raised to the level of their superiors;
and on the other hand, some of the conquerors, by reason of similar causes, fell to the rank
of the subject population. By manumission and by the various forms of vassalage more or less
honorable, and by gaining some economic importance by trade and other means, many of the descendants
of the Roman population gained admission to the ranks of the Arimanni, and obtained the full
franchise by the possession of landed property. By forfeitures, consequent poverty and ultimate
pauperization, many of the Lombard stock lost their rank and their lands and entered the same
state of vassalage with the great body of the people. We see evidences of this change, this
levelling up and levelling down, all through the military code of Liutprand, and in the later
one of Aistulf can even more distinctly trace its progress; and without entering into further
detail, we can definitely state that, by the time we are now considering, all traces of distinct
race-origin had disappeared in the mass of the people, and the only safe distinction that we
can draw is to say that among the families of the dukes and greater nobles, the Lombard stock
was preserved comparatively pure, and that the serf population was, generally speaking, of
Roman descent.[11]

                       KING
          +--------------+--------------+
          |              |              |
        COUNTS         DUKES         GASTALDS
                         |
          +--------------+--------------+
          |              |              |
        CUTANEI       SCABINI       SCULDAHIS
     (LATER BARONS)
      | | | | |
      | | | | +-------------------------------+
      | | | +-------------------------+       |
      | | +-------------------+       |       |
      | +-----------+         |       |       |
      |             |         |       |       |
     ARIMANNI       |         |       |       |
                 MASNADA      |       |       |
                            ALDII     |       |
                                    SERFS     |
                                            SLAVES

     The above table, while its divisions must not be taken too
     literally, will, I think, give some indication of the
     estimation in which the various classes of society were
     held. It is too early yet in the development of the feudal
     system to say that the derivation lines show the course of
     an absolute feudal tenure, and they are not meant for that
     purpose, but simply to indicate the succession of the
     inequalities of rank.

Turning now to the territorial divisions of the country at this period, we find them practically
unchanged. The civitas still stands as the sectional unit; the territory with its city still
represents the administrative division of the state. It is fundamental to a correct understanding
of the early development of communal institutions that we should have a thorough knowledge
of the meaning of this term civitas; of the extent of its application and of its limitations.
I used the words "territory with its city" in defining the administrative division of the state,
and perhaps this term describes the civitas better than any single word would do. In the Roman
municipal system we have the city with its surrounding territory, over which extends the jurisdiction
of the curia; in the Lombard system we have the territory, the land, in some part of which
is located a city, a fortified place.

This is to my mind the important point which settles satisfactorily the vexed question of the
dominance or the disappearance of Roman influences. The institutions of the Lombards were similar
in character to those of the other Germanic races, and the continuance of any overruling municipal
influence among them would have done violence alike to their traditions and to the nature of
their race. The old municipal predominance as a system disappeared, the old municipal divisions
and many of the minor forms and offices as a fact remained. It is these latter which give some
color to the arguments of writers like Savigny,[12] who endeavor to maintain the continuance
of the old Roman curia. They find evidence of the continuance of old boundaries, of many old
names and many old executive functions, and fail to appreciate that the principle which lay
back of and was making use of these old forms as convenient channels for the expression of
its power and of its control, was an entirely new one, based on ideas fundamentally opposed
to those of the civilization it had conquered. This slight warning is necessary so as to avoid
any error in the conception of the significance to be attached to the geographical limits of
the divisions of territory we are considering.

The word civitas has the same signification as comitatus, when that word was used with the
meaning of a territorial division; and included all the territory, with its lands, its villages,
its fortified places and its city, which came under the jurisdiction of a dux or judex, or
in Frankish times of a count, when we are strictly justified in giving it the more familiar
name of county. From this we trace the Italian word contado, by the steps comitatu, comitato,
contato, contado. The land division here indicated is indifferently called in the Lombard records
territorium, fines, civitas, or judiciaria. The identity of all these terms admits of easy
proof from all the documents, public and private; and numberless instances could be cited showing
an interchange of terms in describing the same locality.

I will mention in illustration of this fact the rather neat example of a document of the year
762, published by Brunetti[13] in his Codice Diplomatico Toscano, in which three of these terms
are used interchangeably in the space of a few lines. It is a contract by which a certain Arnifrid,
an inhabitant of Clusium--the modern Chiusi--who "in clusino territorio ... natus fuit," pledges
himself to live on a certain property, and says "nullam conbersationem facias nec in clusio
nec in alia civitate habitandum, nisi.... &c.," and promises to pay fifty solidi if "pro eo
quod ipsa pecunia demittere presumbsero aut de judiciaria vestra suaninse exire voluero." The
contract is "Actum in civitate suana." We here see the words territorium and civitas both applied
to the territory of Chiusi, and the words judiciaria and civitas both applied to the territory
of Siena, and we only need to remember that things which are equal to the same thing are equal
to each other, to recognize the identity of the terms. If we look at document number eight
in the same collection,[14] we will further see the territory of Chiusi referred to as "fines
clusinas."

Hand-in-hand with the growth of episcopal organization we see another term coming into use
in connection with the same land division, and this also is an administrative one, but of the
church simply, and only made use of by conversion or carelessly when applied to a civil area.
I mean the districtus, which term is properly applicable only to the jurisdiction of a bishop,
and designates the limits of his episcopal power, that is, his diocese. The reasons for this
term being used in later times occasionally for the civil division, the civitas, are twofold.
They result, firstly, from the confusion which arose between matters of civil and ecclesiastical
jurisdiction, when political power was given to a large number of the bishops, and when they
united to their religious duties as pastor, the judicial and sometimes even some of the military
duties of comes and judex. And secondly, in the important fact that in almost all cases the
boundaries of a bishop's diocese coincided more or less exactly with the limits of the authority
of the state officers; so that the division which should be called a civitas or territorium
from the point of view of civil government, should be called a districtus from that of ecclesiastical
government.

Where we find at once the most important and, if not rightly understood, the most perplexing
traces of the survival of the old Roman municipal system, is in this matter of territorial
boundaries. According to the Roman system, as we have seen, the city was the important administrative
unit, and each city was surrounded by a belt of rural lands, more or less large according to
the size and importance of the city itself. This of course resulted in a division of the whole
country into a number of districts whose boundaries were definitely marked, perhaps even jealously
guarded. Now, when the Lombards took possession of the country, while they rejected the principle
of the municipal unit, as foreign to the character and instincts of their race, they could
not fail to see the practical utility of using, and the actual difficulty of overthrowing,
a system of land division which custom and authority had united in rendering alike definite
and convenient. What was the result? They made use of the old boundary lines, leaving their
limits, as far as we can judge, untouched, and substituted as the fundamental principle of
their administration, in place of the Roman idea of the municipium, the thoroughly Teutonic
idea of the civitas or country district. Coincident with these time-honored boundaries which
served to mark the limits of the jurisdiction of the duke and the judex, are to be found those
of the ecclesiastical power, of the bishop's diocese.

This statement is confirmed by the many charters, immunities, etc., addressed to the episcopal
authorities; and direct proof of it may be had by reference to the controversy which arose
in the first half of the eighth century between the bishops of Arezzo and Siena, which dispute
was based on the fact that for reasons definitely stated these two dioceses formed an exception
to the general rule. The strength of the proof lies in this exception, which had a well-known
cause for its origin. Some of the documents[15] in the case, of the year 715, show that the
bishop of Siena claimed for his jurisdiction certain churches which belonged to the diocese
of Arezzo, basing his claim solely on the ground that these churches were situated in the territorium
of Siena. The bishop of Arezzo, on the other hand, claims them as part of his diocese, on the
ground that they had formed part of it ever since the beginning of Lombard rule in Italy; and--which
is the part of importance to us--gives as the only reason for their having been attached to
the diocese of a neighboring territorium, the fact that at that early date there was no bishop
in the territorium of Siena. That a claim of such a character should have been based on the
argument of the natural coincidence of the boundaries of territorium and diocese, is sufficient
proof of the identity of these limits at that age. In a bull of the year 752,[16] Pope Stephen
II. decides to adhere to the already existing diocesan divisions, and adjudges to the bishop
of Arezzo the churches "quae esse manifestum est sub consecratione et regimine praefatae S.
Aretinae Ecclesiae, territorium vero est prefatae nominatae Civitatis Senensis."

We see then the perpetuation of the old Roman land divisions in the new commonwealth through
the medium of the civitas and the diocese. How long these divisions remained intact and what
were the causes and the extent of their final overthrow, forms part of the history of the later
development of the Italian communes. Here I will simply indicate the fact, that among the reasons
which led in most instances to a departure from this system of land boundaries, are to be found
some of the most important causes for the development of freedom and independent jurisdiction
among the cities. It is to the destruction of this identity of interests and of government
which existed between country and city, that is owed the ultimate predominance of the latter,
and its regaining its ancient position of a self-centered unity; although in its new form we
find this depending on the principle of individual liberty, instead of being based on the principle
of government by a central power. Whether this emancipation from the bonds of a rural dependence
was brought about by the practice later entered upon, of breaking up the counties into a number
of smaller units with the so-called "rural counts," each ruling over a castellum or fortified
village; or by the fact that many of the bishops obtained political as well as religious control
over a city and a limited area of the surrounding country, generally extending only three or
five miles beyond the city walls; or whether this freedom was the result of the spontaneous
growth of civic and economic life within the city itself; or finally, whether it came from
a combination of all these and many minor causes, is a question which--for the early period
of the development at least--the progress of our investigation will answer for itself.

