"Several times. I called on her the day before I left town, to see if she had any messages
for you."

"Oh, thank you! I hope she's well."

"Oh, she's as jolly as ever. She sent you her love, and hoped you would come back to Leatherborough
very soon again. I told her, that, however it might be with the first message, the second should
be a joint one from both of us."

"You're very kind. I should like very much to go again.--Do you like Mrs. Littlefield?"

"Like her? Yes. Don't you? She's thought a very pleasing woman."

"Oh, she's very nice.--I don't think she has much conversation."

"Ah, I'm afraid you mean she doesn't backbite. We've always found plenty to talk about."

"That's a very significant tone. What, for instance?"

"Well, we have talked about Miss Crowe."

"Oh, you have? Do you call that having plenty to talk about?"

"We have talked about Mr. Bruce,--haven't we, Elizabeth?" said Miss Cooper, who had her own
notion of being agreeable.

It was not an altogether bad notion, perhaps; but Bruce found her interruptions rather annoying,
and insensibly allowed them to shorten his visit. Yet, as it was, he sat till eleven o'clock,--a
stay quite unprecedented at Glenham.

When he left the house, he went splashing down the road with a very elastic tread, springing
over the starlit puddles, and trolling out some sentimental ditty. He reached the inn, and
went up to his sister's sitting-room.

"Why, Robert, where have you been all this while?" said Miss Bruce.

"At Dr. Cooper's."

"Dr. Cooper's? I should think you had! Who's Dr. Cooper?"

"Where Miss Crowe's staying."

"Miss Crowe? Ah, Mrs. Littlefield's friend! Is she as pretty as ever?"

"Prettier,--prettier,--prettier. Tara-ta! tara-ta!"

"Oh, Robert, do stop that singing! You'll rouse the whole house."

V.

Late one afternoon, at dusk, about three weeks after Mr. Bruce's arrival, Lizzie was sitting
alone by the fire, in Miss Cooper's parlor, musing, as became the place and hour. The Doctor
and his sister came in, dressed for a lecture.

"I'm sorry you won't go, my dear," said Miss Cooper. "It's a most interesting subject: 'A Year
of the War.' All the battles and things described, you know."

"I'm tired of war," said Lizzie.

"Well, well, if you're tired of the war, we'll leave you in peace. Kiss me good-bye. What's
the matter? You look sick. You are homesick, a'n't you?"

"No, no,--I'm very well."

"Would you like me to stay at home with you?"

"Oh, no! pray, don't!"

"Well, we'll tell you all about it. Will they have programmes, James? I'll bring her a programme.--But
you really feel as if you were going to be ill. Feel of her skin, James."

"No, you needn't, Sir," said Lizzie. "How queer of you, Miss Cooper! I'm perfectly well."

And at last her friends departed. Before long the servant came with the lamp, ushering Mr.
Mackenzie.

"Good evening, Miss," said he. "Bad news from Mrs. Ford."

"Bad news?"

"Yes, Miss. I've just got a letter stating that Mr. John is growing worse and worse, and that
they look for his death from hour to hour.--It's very sad," he added, as Elizabeth was silent.

"Yes, it's very sad," said Lizzie.

"I thought you'd like to hear it."

"Thank you."

"He was a very noble young fellow," pursued Mr. Mackenzie.

Lizzie made no response.

"There's the letter," said Mr. Mackenzie, handing it over to her.

Lizzie opened it.

"How long she is reading it!" thought her visitor. "You can't see so far from the light, can
you, Miss?"

"Yes," said Lizzie.--"His poor mother! Poor woman!"

"Ay, indeed, Miss,--she's the one to be pitied."

"Yes, she's the one to be pitied," said Lizzie. "Well!" and she gave him back the letter.

"I thought you'd like to see it," said Mackenzie, drawing on his gloves; and then, after a
pause,--"I'll call again, Miss, if I hear anything more. Good night!"

Lizzie got up and lowered the light, and then went back to her sofa by the fire.

Half an hour passed; it went slowly; but it passed. Still lying there in the dark room on the
sofa, Lizzie heard a ring at the door-bell, a man's voice and a man's tread in the hall. She
rose and went to the lamp. As she turned it up, the parlor-door opened. Bruce came in.

"I was sitting in the dark," said Lizzie; "but when I heard you coming, I raised the light."

"Are you afraid of me?" said Bruce.

"Oh, no! I'll put it down again. Sit down."

"I saw your friends going out," pursued Bruce; "so I knew I should find you alone.--What are
you doing here in the dark?"

"I've just received very bad news from Mrs. Ford about her son. He's much worse, and will probably
not live."

"Is it possible?"

"I was thinking about that."

"Dear me! Well that's a sad subject. I'm told he was a very fine young man."

"He was,--very," said Lizzie.

Bruce was silent awhile. He was a stranger to the young officer, and felt that he had nothing
to offer beyond the commonplace expressions of sympathy and surprise. Nor had he exactly the
measure of his companion's interest in him.

"If he dies," said Lizzie, "it will be under great injustice."

"Ah! what do you mean?"

"There wasn't a braver man in the army."

"I suppose not."

"And, oh, Mr. Bruce," continued Lizzie, "he was so clever and good and generous! I wish you
had known him."

"I wish I had. But what do you mean by injustice? Were these qualities denied him?"

"No indeed! Every one that looked at him could see that he was perfect."

"Where's the injustice, then? It ought to be enough for him that you should think so highly
of him."

"Oh, he knew that," said Lizzie.

Bruce was a little puzzled by his companion's manner. He watched her, as she sat with her cheek
on her hand, looking at the fire. There was a long pause. Either they were too friendly or
too thoughtful for the silence to be embarrassing. Bruce broke it at last.

"Miss Crowe," said he, "on a certain occasion, some time ago, when you first heard of Mr. Ford's
wounds, I offered you my company, with the wish to console you as far as I might for what seemed
a considerable shock. It was, perhaps, a bold offer for so new a friend; but, nevertheless,
in it even then my heart spoke. You turned me off. Will you let me repeat it? Now, with a better
right, will you let me speak out all my heart?"

Lizzie heard this speech, which was delivered in a slow and hesitating tone, without looking
up or moving her head, except, perhaps, at the words "turned me off." After Bruce had ceased,
she still kept her position.

"You'll not turn me off now?" added her companion.

She dropped her hand, raised her head, and looked at him a moment: he thought he saw the glow
of tears in her eyes. Then she sank back upon the sofa with her face in the shadow of the mantel-piece.

"I don't understand you, Mr. Bruce," said she.

"Ah, Elizabeth! am I such a poor speaker. How shall I make it plain? When I saw your friends
leave home half an hour ago, and reflected that you would probably be alone, I determined to
go right in and have a talk with you that I've long been wanting to have. But first I walked
half a mile up the road, thinking hard,--thinking how I should say what I had to say. I made
up my mind to nothing, but that somehow or other I should say it I would trust,--I do trust
to your frankness, kindness, and sympathy, to a feeling corresponding to my own. Do you understand
that feeling? Do you know that I love you? I do, I do, I do! You must know it. If you don't,
I solemnly swear it. I solemnly ask you, Elizabeth, to take me for your husband."

While Bruce said these words, he rose, with their rising passion, and came and stood before
Lizzie. Again she was motionless.

"Does it take you so long to think?" said he, trying to read her indistinct features; and he
sat down on the sofa beside her and took her hand.

At last Lizzie spoke.

"Are you sure," said she, "that you love me?"

"As sure as that I breathe. Now, Elizabeth, make me as sure that I am loved in return."

"It seems very strange, Mr. Bruce," said Lizzie.

"What seems strange? Why should it? For a month I've been trying, in a hundred dumb ways, to
make it plain; and now, when I swear it, it only seems strange!"

"What do you love me for?"

"For? For yourself, Elizabeth."

"Myself? I am nothing."

"I love you for what you are,--for your deep, kind heart,--for being so perfectly a woman."

Lizzie drew away her hand, and her lover rose and stood before her again. But now she looked
up into his face, questioning when she should have answered, drinking strength from his entreaties
for her replies. There he stood before her, in the glow of the firelight, in all his gentlemanhood,
for her to accept or reject. She slowly rose and gave him the hand she had withdrawn.

"Mr. Bruce, I shall be very proud to love you," she said.

And then, as if this effort was beyond her strength, she half staggered back to the sofa again.
And still holding her hand, he sat down beside her. And there they were still sitting when
they heard the Doctor and his sister come in.

For three days Elizabeth saw nothing of Mr. Mackenzie. At last, on the fourth day, passing
his office in the village, she went in and asked for him. He came out of his little back parlor
with his mouth full and a beaming face.

"Good-day, Miss Crowe, and good news!"

"Good news?" cried Lizzie.

"Capital!" said he, looking hard at her, while he put on his spectacles. "She writes that Mr.
John--won't you take a seat?--has taken a sudden and unexpected turn for the better. Now's
the moment to save him; it's an equal risk. They were to start for the North the second day
after date. The surgeon comes with them. So they'll be home--of course they'll travel slowly--in
four or five days. Yes, Miss, it's a remarkable Providence. And that noble young man will be
spared to the country, and to those who love him, as I do."

"I had better go back to the house and have it got ready," said Lizzie, for an answer.

"Yes, Miss, I think you had. In fact, Mrs. Ford made that request."

The request was obeyed. That same day Lizzie went home. For two days she found it her interest
to overlook, assiduously, a general sweeping, scrubbing, and provisioning. She allowed herself
no idle moment until bed-time. Then--But I would rather not be the chamberlain of her agony.
It was the easier to work, as Mr. Bruce had gone to Leatherborough on business.

On the fourth evening, at twilight, John Ford was borne up to the door on his stretcher, with
his mother stalking beside him in rigid grief, and kind, silent friends pressing about with
helping hands.

    "Home they brought her warrior dead,
    She nor swooned nor uttered cry."

It was, indeed, almost a question, whether Jack was not dead. Death is not thinner, paler,
stiller. Lizzie moved about like one in a dream. Of course, when there are so many sympathetic
friends, a man's family has nothing to do,--except exercise a little self-control. The women
huddled Mrs. Ford to bed; rest was imperative; she was killing herself. And it was significant
of her weakness that she did not resent this advice. In greeting her, Lizzie felt as if she
were embracing the stone image on the top of a sepulchre. She, too, had her cares anticipated.
Good Doctor Cooper and his sister stationed themselves at the young man's couch.

The Doctor prophesied wondrous things of the change of climate; he was certain of a recovery.
Lizzie found herself very shortly dealt with as an obstacle to this consummation. Access to
John was prohibited. "Perfect stillness, you know, my dear," whispered Miss Cooper, opening
his chamber-door on a crack, in a pair of very creaking shoes. So for the first evening that
her old friend was at home Lizzie caught but a glimpse of his pale, senseless face, as she
hovered outside the long train of his attendants. If we may suppose any of these kind people
to have had eyes for aught but the sufferer, we may be sure that they saw another visage equally
sad and white. The sufferer? It was hardly Jack, after all.

When Lizzie was turned from Jack's door, she took a covering from a heap of draperies that
had been hurriedly tossed down in the hall: it was an old army-blanket. She wrapped it round
her, and went out on the verandah. It was nine o'clock; but the darkness was filled with light.
A great wanton wind--the ghost of the raw blast which travels by day--had arisen, bearing long,
soft gusts of inland spring. Scattered clouds were hurrying across the white sky. The bright
moon, careering in their midst, seemed to have wandered forth in frantic quest of the hidden stars.

Lizzie nestled her head in the blanket, and sat down on the steps. A strange earthy smell lingered
in that faded old rug, and with it a faint perfume of tobacco. Instantly the young girl's senses
were transported as they had never been before to those far-off Southern battle-fields. She
saw men lying in swamps, puffing their kindly pipes, drawing their blankets closer, canopied
with the same luminous dusk that shone down upon her comfortable weakness. Her mind wandered
amid these scenes till recalled to the present by the swinging of the garden-gate. She heard
a firm, well-known tread crunching the gravel. Mr. Bruce came up the path. As he drew near
the steps, Lizzie arose. The blanket fell back from her head, and Bruce started at recognizing her.

"Hullo! You, Elizabeth? What's the matter?"

Lizzie made no answer.

"Are you one of Mr. Ford's watchers?" he continued, coming up the steps; "how is he?"

Still she was silent. Bruce put out his hands to take hers, and bent forward as if to kiss
her. She half shook him off, and retreated toward the door.

"Good heavens!" cried Bruce; "what's the matter? Are you moonstruck? Can't you speak?"

"No,--no,--not to-night," said Lizzie, in a choking voice. "Go away,--go away!"

She stood holding the door-handle, and motioning him off. He hesitated a moment, and then advanced.
She opened the door rapidly, and went in. He heard her lock it. He stood looking at it stupidly
for some time, and then slowly turned round and walked down the steps.

